-- Giffords’ Shadow Large as Vote May Turn Arizona Seat Republican
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-01-24T23:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/giffords-shadow-looming-large-as-election-could-turn-her-seat-republican.html
Democratic Representative  Gabrielle Giffords ’ sudden resignation this week from Congress may open
the door for Republicans to take back the seat that she narrowly
retained for a third term in 2010.  Giffords’ announcement Jan. 22 that she would leave the
U.S. House to focus on her recovery from a gunshot to the head
at a constituent event a year ago sets the stage for a special
election to fill out her term, just months before the regular
2012 election.  Whether Giffords, 41, endorses someone, and how much her
shadow hangs over the contest, could shape the outcome,
strategists say. Arizona voters gave Giffords a 61 percent
favorable  rating  in a November survey by Public Policy Polling
of Raleigh,  North Carolina . The margin of error was plus or
minus 4.4 percentage points.  “It is very much up for grabs,” said Barry Dill, a
Democratic political consultant at First Strategic
Communications and Public Affairs in Phoenix. “Short of a
Democrat getting Gabby’s endorsement, my feeling is that a
credible Republican candidate could win.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, told the
political news website Politico that his party is well-
positioned for the fight. The seat was held for more than two
decades by Republican Jim Kolbe before Giffords won election in
2006.  “That’s always been a very competitive seat,” Boehner
said.  Giffords beat Tea Party-backed Republican Jesse Kelly by
less than 2 percentage points in 2010.  Special Election  The special election, with a primary potentially in April
and general election in June, will be under the current
congressional map. Republicans have a registration advantage in
the district, which includes parts of Tucson.  If the work of the  Arizona  Independent Redistricting
Commission passes federal and court scrutiny, a new map
reflecting population changes will be used for the regular
election. Legislative district boundaries are reconfigured once
per decade so that they have approximately equal numbers of
people.  Voter Registration  Voter registration and the results of recent elections are
used to calculate the so-called competitiveness of the district.
The data show it shifting from a current Republican advantage of
53.3 percent to 46.7 percent to a more even split that favors
Republicans 50.5 percent to 49.5 percent under the new map, said
Willie Desmond, senior analyst for Strategic Telemetry, a
mapping consultant for the commission.  Whether Giffords and husband, retired astronaut  Mark Kelly ,
endorse or actively support a candidate in the race may make a
difference, especially in the special election, said Thomas
Volgy, a former Tucson mayor now teaching political science at
the  University of Arizona .  “I think virtually anyone in Gabby’s district who
represents about the same contours she did is probably likely to
win,” Volgy, a Democrat, said. “Gabby enjoys enormous
popularity in the district. That person would have an enormous
edge.”  Speculation about possible runs by Mark Kelly or members of
Giffords staff has been rampant. If they do, it changes the
landscape for Republicans, said  David Wasserman , an analyst for
the nonpartisan Cook Political Report.  “The closer the candidate is to Giffords, the better
chance that voters will see that candidate as the logical
continuation of Giffords,” he said.  Wasserman said the resignation and subsequent special
election may help Democrats more than if Giffords had served out
her term.  Giffords or Issues?  “The question remains if the race revolves around Giffords
or national politics,” Wasserman said. “If it is the latter,
Republicans may have a chance.”  Republicans have the advantage in terms of candidates, in
part because this could include those who have campaigned in the
district before, said Nathan Sproul, a former executive director
of the state  Republican Party  and now managing partner of Tempe-
based Lincoln Strategy Group, a Republican consulting firm.  “This is one of the races where Republicans have a lot of
good candidates to draw from and the Democrat pool is not quite
as deep,” said Sproul, who has worked on campaigns in the
district.  Kelly Files  Jesse Kelly, the Republican who challenged Giffords in
2010, filed papers today with the  Federal Election Commission 
indicating he plans to run again for the seat.  Among others said to be weighing the race are Dave Sitton,
a sports announcer, and state Senator Frank Antenori, both
Republicans, and state Representative Steve Farley, a Democrat
who is the assistant minority leader, Sproul said. Nan Walden, a
Democrat and former Senate staffer who is a Tucson
businesswoman, is also weighing the race, said David Steele of
Strategic Issues Management Group, a Democratic political
consulting group in Tucson that represents Walden.  Arizona Governor Jan Brewer, a Republican, must set the
date for the special election within 72 hours of Giffords
officially leaving Congress, said Matt Roberts, a spokesman for
the Arizona Secretary of  State’s Office. The primary would be
held 80-90 days later, with the general election following 50-60
days after that.  The party primary for the regular election is Aug. 28, with
the general election Nov. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  