-- Gingrich Firm Releases One of Its Contracts With Freddie Mac
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-01-24T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/gingrich-firm-releases-2006-freddie-mac-contract-as-rivals-raise-pressure.html
Newt Gingrich’s consulting firm
yesterday released a copy of its 2006 contract with  Freddie Mac (FMCC) ,
which covers just one year of his multiple years of service and
documents only $300,000 of the $1.6 million he received from the
mortgage company.  The Republican hopeful’s first contract -- spanning 1999 to
2002 and worth between $1 million and $1.2 million, according to
two people familiar with the agreement -- wasn’t released
because officials at the Center for Health Transformation can’t
find it, said Susan Meyers, a center spokeswoman who works for
the Gingrich campaign. The 2006 contract also applied to 2007,
she said, meaning the total value of that contract was $600,000.  “We’re not even sure we signed anything for 2007,” said
Meyers.  Gingrich and his allies have come under increasing pressure
from chief rival  Mitt Romney  to release the records, and his
association with  Freddie Mac  is emerging as major theme in the
race. Many Republicans have criticized Freddie Mac because the
company invested in risky mortgages and then needed billions of
dollars in taxpayer money for a bailout after the housing market
meltdown. Since September 2008, Freddie Mac and sister company
 Fannie Mae , both now operating under U.S. conservatorship, have
cost a total of $153 billion in taxpayer aid.  “Why isn’t Speaker Gingrich disclosing the full extent of
his relationship with Freddie Mac?” said  Brian Jones , a
spokesman for the Romney campaign. “Ultimately this disclosure
raises more questions than it actually does answer.”  Debate Issue  Within the first few minutes of a candidates’ debate last
night in Tampa, Florida, Romney accused Gingrich of working for
Freddie Mac’s lobbying shop and of “ influence peddling .”
Gingrich, 68, denies he lobbied on behalf of the company. The
contract makes clear “I was supposed to do consulting work,”
he said. “There is no place in the contract that provides for
lobbying.”  Romney may also be vulnerable on the issue. His most recent
financial-disclosure report, which he filed in August 2011,
shows he had a financial interest in Freddie Mac and  Fannie Mae. (FNMA)   The disclosure said he held assets in both Freddie Mac and
Fannie Mae valued at between $100,000 to $250,000. He received
between $5,001 and $15,000 in interest income from his Freddie
Mac assets and another $5,001 to $15,000 in interest income from
his Fannie Mae assets. Financial-disclosure reports allow
candidates to report assets in broad ranges.  Blind Trust  Jones said Romney’s assets are in a blind trust, and the
trustee makes all the decisions about how they are invested.
Romney “has no input or oversight” over the investments, he
said.  The contract released yesterday states that Gingrich and
his firm were retained to “provide consulting and related
services as requested by Freddie Mac’s Director, Public Policy
in exchange for which Freddie Mac will pay Consultant $25,000
per each full calendar month.” The director of public policy
was the head of Freddie Mac’s lobbying arm.  “The contract was solely for consulting purposes and not
lobbying,”  Nancy Desmond , who has served as chairman and chief
executive officer of the Center for Health Transformation since
Gingrich left the firm to seek the presidency in May, said in a
statement.  Gingrich’s consulting contract expired at the end of 2007,
Meyers said.  Appealing to Conservatives  Former and current Freddie Mac executives have told
Bloomberg News that Gingrich was hired to develop an argument on
behalf of the company’s public-private structure that would
resonate with conservatives seeking to dismantle it. He wasn’t
asked to personally deliver that message on  Capitol Hill , they
said.  The 2006 contract, written by Freddie Mac and signed by
Scott Cotter, a vice president of the Gingrich Group, as the
Center for Health Transformation was then called, would have
required Gingrich to register as a lobbyist if that was part of
the work he did for the company.  The consultant will supply copies of any reports or
disclosures “such as reports filed under the Lobbying
Disclosure Act,” the document says. Gingrich didn’t register as
a lobbyist.  Mitchell Delk, a former chief lobbyist for Freddie Mac,
told Bloomberg News in a November interview that he hired
Gingrich as a consultant during an earlier stint between 1999
and 2002 to provide feedback on the company’s initiatives.  Providing Counsel  “What he did was provide counsel on public policy
issues,” Delk said. “There was no expectation that he would do
any lobbying, and he did not do any lobbying.”  During his second stint as a Freddie Mac consultant,
Gingrich was hired by company executive Hollis McLoughlin as
part of an effort to shape a message that would win over allies
in Republican circles, people familiar with the arrangement told
Bloomberg News.  The center released the document after several weeks in
which Gingrich gave varying reasons why he couldn’t do so.  At first he said he was bound by a confidentiality
agreement with Freddie Mac. After Freddie Mac officials said he
was “welcome” to make the contract public, he said the power
to release it lay with the Center for Health Transformation.  Changing Position  Stefan Passantino , the center’s attorney, said earlier this
month that he wouldn’t allow the document to be released for
fear of jeopardizing confidentiality for the company’s other
clients. Passantino -- who is also counsel to the Gingrich
campaign -- said in an e-mail yesterday that he changed his
position after he spoke directly with the general counsel at
Freddie Mac and “she expressly authorized release of the
contract.”  Gingrich also made public remarks on Jan. 22 urging the
center to make the records public.  The increased pressure on him to provide more details about
Gingrich’s work for Freddie Mac coincides with his campaign’s
new momentum going into the  Florida  primary after his victory in
 South Carolina ’s contest on Jan. 21.  The Romney campaign said yesterday it will begin airing a
television ad in Florida tying Gingrich’s work to the state’s
troubled housing market.  In the ad, which opens with the word “foreclosed” being
stamped over the  state of Florida , a male voice says, “While
Florida families lost everything in the housing crisis, Newt
Gingrich cashed in. Gingrich was paid over $1.6 million by the
scandal-ridden agency that helped create the crisis.”  Calls for ‘Transparency’  Surrogates for both candidates traded jabs over Gingrich’s
work for Freddie Mac yesterday.  Former Governor  Tim Pawlenty  of  Minnesota  and Florida House
Speaker-designate Will Weatherford said in a Romney-arranged
conference call with reporters that Gingrich needed to provide
“transparency” about his work for Freddie Mac.  “We don’t have insight or transparency into what he
actually did,” Pawlenty said. He called Gingrich’s claims that
lawyers are holding up the release of the contracts “B.S.” and
“just nonsense.”  J.C. Watts Jr., a Gingrich supporter and a former U.S.
House member from  Oklahoma , said in a conference call with
reporters that Romney’s attacks are “silly,” as is the idea
that Gingrich was a major player in Freddie Mac discussions in
 Washington .  Watts left the House in January 2003 and was chairman for
six years of FM Policy Focus, a group that pushed for increased
regulation of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. Watts said that, even
though he had “day-to-day” contact with the people most
interested in Freddie Mac, “ Newt Gingrich  was never on my radar
screen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  