-- Gingrich’s Ideas Collapse Under Weight of Logic: Ponnuru
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-01-24T00:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/gingrich-s-ideas-collapse-under-weight-of-logic-ramesh-ponnuru.html
Even  Newt Gingrich ’s toughest
critics concede that the former speaker of the House, now
enjoying his second comeback in the Republican presidential
race, is a font of ideas.  Republican voters who listen to him hear proposals they
have never heard before: bold, exciting proposals, made with
complete confidence in their workability. His originality is a
big part of his appeal. But even his fans concede that not all
of his ideas are good.  Everyone has good and bad ideas, of course. Getting them
all tangled up with each other is one of the chief
characteristics of Gingrich’s intellectual style.  Take Social Security. Gingrich correctly  labels  as a
“fantasy” the notion that it can “survive without any structural
reforms.” He advocates allowing people to invest some of the
funds they currently submit to Social Security in “personal
accounts.” Under the right circumstances, personal accounts can
be a useful way of setting aside money today for future
retirements -- something the government has not been good at --
and of democratizing capital ownership.  The Gingrich Twist  But then comes the Gingrich twist: His plan guarantees that
if people’s investments fail, they will still get all the
benefits that current law promises them. How can the government
save money while giving everyone their promised benefits and
making up unlucky or incompetent investors’ shortfalls? It
can’t. And won’t those shortfalls be larger if people know they
can’t lose?  Plenty of Social Security plans involve the government
saving money in the long term by taking a hit in the present.
Gingrich has managed to devise a plan that actually increases
the program’s long-term cost. The price tag for Gingrich’s
originality, based on estimates of similar proposals in years
past, would be several trillion dollars. The plan simply assumes
that spending on the rest of the budget will be cut so
dramatically, and the increased national saving will so boost
economic growth and thus  tax revenue , that we will be able to
afford a much-larger Social Security program.  On immigration, too, Gingrich starts with a set of sensible
premises. We need to be able to enforce our immigration laws,
but “the American people are not heartless” and will not deport
illegal immigrants who have spent years putting down roots here.
Gingrich puts forward two distinctive solutions. One is a
temporary work program  proposed by the Vernon K. Krieble
Foundation  to satisfy businesses’ demand for labor. But there’s
a problem with temporary work programs: What if their
participants have kids while they are here?  Current law treats those children as citizens. To enforce
the time limit on the program, the government has three options:
tear apart families; eject citizens; or change the law to strip
those kids of citizenship. The foundation picks Option 3.
Gingrich is silent about which he would pick, or how he would do
any of this without heartlessness.  Gingrich’s second immigration idea is to establish local
community boards to decide which illegal immigrants should stay
and which should go. His  website says  Congress must set
“understandable, clear, objective legal standards that will be
applied equally.” If some boards decide to offer sanctuary to
everyone and others are tough, or if some boards practice
blatant discrimination, will there be another layer of
bureaucracy to review their decisions? Who is going to perform
the millions of background checks that Gingrich says must be
done before the boards review applications? To describe how
unserious this proposal is requires using Gingrich’s favorite
adverbs: truly, profoundly, fundamentally.  On Judicial Power  Consider, finally, Gingrich’s much-discussed desire to
 weaken the federal courts . The view that the courts have much
more power than they used to have, and that this change is
mostly unfortunate, is a respectable one. The view that Congress
and the president should respond on occasion by limiting the
courts’ jurisdiction, as Gingrich wants,  ought to be
respectable , too.  But Gingrich cannot, of course, stop there. He also has to
call for Congress to summon judges to explain their decisions,
which would be both pointless (they already write opinions), and
wrong (congressmen have no constitutional power to hector
judges). And he wants to abolish liberal circuit courts and
replace them with conservative ones, which is an obvious attempt
to ignore the Constitution’s grant of life tenure to judges.  Anyone who proposes that judicial power should be checked
arouses the suspicion that what he really wants is freedom from
the constraints of the law. Gingrich’s solution to this problem
is to confirm the charge instantaneously.  Gingrich has more original ideas than most of us. But for a
president, what’s much more important is the ability to tell the
good ones from the bad -- an ability called judgment.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  