-- GM Chief Akerson Blames U.S. Politics for Fire Scrutiny on Chevy Volt Car
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-01-24T20:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/gm-chief-akerson-blames-u-s-politics-for-scrutiny-over-chevy-volt-battery.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson said politics are behind the
“disproportionate level of scrutiny” of the Chevrolet Volt
since its batteries leaked and started fires after crash tests.  The Volt has become “a surrogate for some to offer broader
commentary” on GM and on President Barack Obama’s
administration, which has promoted electric vehicles, Akerson
said in testimony prepared for a U.S. House hearing tomorrow.  A House Oversight and Government Reform subcommittee
overseen by Representative  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican, is probing the responses of Detroit-based GM and
U.S. regulators to the crash-test fire in June. The hearing will
be the morning after Obama’s annual State of the Union speech,
which comes as candidates prepare for the  U.S. presidential
election  in November.  “The Volt’s entry into the market came soon after GM’s
emergence from its government rescue and restructuring -- and
during this political season,” Akerson said in his testimony.
“As such, the Volt seems, perhaps unfairly, to have become a
surrogate for some to offer broader commentary on General
Motors’ business prospects and Administration policy.”  GM and U.S. regulators didn’t disclose the fire until
Bloomberg News reported it in November. The  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration  opened a formal investigation
later that month and closed it last week, saying electric cars
posed no more of a fire risk than gasoline-powered models, after
GM announced a fix for current and future Volts, avoiding a
formal recall.  Disclosure Questions  The regulator said its decision to start the investigation
was unusual because no Volt fires were reported outside of crash
tests.  Issa has questioned the delays by GM and the regulator in
notifying the public about a safety defect. He asked NHTSA
Administrator  David Strickland  in December whether his agency
“deliberately suppressed” disclosure.  GM introduced the Volt, which Akerson called “a technical
showcase for GM,” after a U.S. government bailout. The  U.S.
Treasury   owns  32 percent of GM shares, down from 62 percent,
according to a report prepared by GM’s government affairs staff
this month.  Obama has set a goal of having 1 million electric vehicles
on U.S. roads by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  