-- Goldman Sachs’s Prospects ‘More Optimistic,’ JMP’s Trone Says
-- B y   S t e v e   D i c k s o n
-- 2012-01-24T13:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/goldman-sachs-s-prospects-more-optimistic-jmp-s-trone-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s prospects
have improved as the risk of a European bank meltdown eases and
the firm adapts to structural changes in the market, JMP
Securities analyst  David Trone  said.  After a meeting yesterday with Goldman Sachs Chief
Financial Officer David Viniar, Trone said he was “more
optimistic about near-term prospects than we have been in
sometime.” He said today in a note to clients that he sees
“some upward bias” to his earnings estimates for New York-
based Goldman Sachs, which last week posted a smaller decline in
fourth-quarter profit than analysts predicted.  Earnings reports from the six largest U.S. banks showed the
industry suffered a third straight quarterly drop in combined
trading and investment-banking revenue, raising concern that the
slowdown is more than just a temporary rut and may signal a
lasting shift to smaller volumes, profits and pay.  Executives and analysts are focusing on whether stiffer
regulations, capital rules and a weak economy may solidify a
decline in revenue after the European debt crisis curbed trading
volume and corporate dealmaking in last year’s second half.
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, which are all shrinking their investment banks, have
announced plans to eliminate about 8,300 jobs since the start of
November.  Trone said Goldman Sachs’s “adaptability” makes him
“bullish” about the company’s long-term prospects and supports
his view that the franchise “has a competitive and profitable
future.” Goldman Sachs said revenue will rise when the markets
rebound, boosting pay for investment bankers, according to
Trone.  JMP has a “ market outperform ” rating on Goldman Sachs’s
stock, which gained 20 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Dickson  in  New York  at 
 sdickson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 