-- Greek Debt Exchange Deal Would Be Considered Default, S&P’s Chambers Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c K e e
-- 2012-01-24T15:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/greek-debt-exchange-deal-would-be-considered-default-s-p-s-chambers-says.html
Greece  is likely to default in the
first half of this year, an event that’s poised to leave the
country with a “very high” debt burden, according to  John Chambers  of  Standard & Poor’s  .  The country is pursuing talks on a debt swap with private
creditors that would lower Greece’s debt to 120 percent of gross
domestic product by 2020, the  Finance Ministry  said yesterday.
Euro governments have sought to fill a deeper-than-expected hole
in Greece’s finances by having investors accept a lower  interest
rate  on exchanged bonds.  “The very least that would happen in Greece is an exchange
that would qualify by our criteria as a default,” Chambers,
managing director of sovereign ratings at S&P, said today at the
Bloomberg Link Sovereign Debt Conference in  New York . “Their
debt burden is still going to be very, very high. So their
rating post-default will still be a low rating.”  Greece has had a CC long-term credit ranking, 10 steps
below investment quality, with a negative outlook since July,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The New York-based
credit rating company downgraded nine countries including
France, Italy and Spain on Jan. 13.  “The key here is for the rest of the euro zone to keep to
the plans that they’ve enunciated,” Chambers said. “It’s going
to be a long slog.”  Credit Default Swaps  As European Union finance officials met in Brussels today,
efforts to shore up Greece were flanked by headway on a German-
inspired deficit-reduction treaty and indications that a cap on
rescue lending might be boosted to 750 billion euros ($973.5
billion) from 500 billion euros.  French government debt has lost 0.15 percent this year,
while bonds of  Italy  gained 4.14 percent and those of Spain have
gained 0.02 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. Yields on Greek 10-year bonds have fallen to 33.4
percent from a high of 36 percent on Dec. 21.  While “the contemplated restructuring isn’t likely to be
sufficient to make Greece a viable, going economic concern in
the future,” the decision not to trigger credit-default swaps
may also be a form of “collateral damage” from the nation’s
default, said Thomas Cooley, an economics professor at  New York
University .  “The future viability of that market is really undermined
by what’s been going on around Greece,” Cooley said at the
conference.  Irish Debt  The EU and International Monetary Fund had to bail out
Greece, Portugal and Ireland after their borrowing costs for 10-
year securities rose to about 7 percent amid concern their debt
levels were unsustainable relative to their economies.  Irish government debt is an example of the opportunities to
“cherry pick” assets while investors are panicked, said
 Michael Hasenstab , manager of  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN) ’s
Templeton Global Bond.  “It was a big problem, very distressed, but they have all
the right policy prescriptions,” Hasenstab said at the
conference.  “They took the tough medicine, they had social
cohesion about a plan.”  Irish  government bonds  have gained 6 percent this year,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael McKee in New York at 
 mmckee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  