-- Greek Economy on Track to Implode: Hanke
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2012-01-24T21:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/greek-economy-on-track-to-implode-hanke.html
Whether or not  Greece  is able to
reach an agreement on the restructuring of its debt, the country
is set to “implode” as the economy contracts, according to
Johns Hopkins University’s  Steve Hanke .  “The game is completely over,” Hanke, professor of
applied economics, said at the Bloomberg Sovereign Debt Crisis
Conference in New York hosted by Bloomberg Link. “All the
calculations are nonsense and have been since day one. Since the
crisis began the money supply has been shrinking and the economy
is going to implode, no matter what they do in the short run.”  Money supply is shrinking at an annual rate of about 16
percent in Greece, meaning there won’t be growth needed to
support debt payments, Hanke said. Greece is pursuing talks on a
debt swap with private creditors that would lower Greece’s debt
to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020. European
governments have sought to fill a deeper-than-expected gap in
Greece’s finances by having investors accept a lower  interest
rate  on exchanged bonds.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global
growth today and warned that the European debt crisis threatens
to derail the world economy. The fund, in an update of its World
Economic Outlook report, lowered its estimate for global growth
this year to 3.3 percent from a September forecast of 4 percent.  Regional Bailouts  To avoid a 1930s-style worldwide depression, IMF Fund
Managing Director Christine Lagarde yesterday called on other
countries to play their part. The IMF, which co-finances loans
to Greece, Ireland and Portugal, identified a potential global
financing need of $1 trillion in coming years and is seeking
$500 billion in new lending resources from its member countries
to address potential loan demand.  “The  World Bank  said hope for the best, plan for the
worst,”  Axel Merk , president of Merk Investments LLC in Palo
Alto, California, said at the conference. “That is exactly what
central banks are doing. Monetary policy is going to be
accommodating.”  Now isn’t time to consider whether the 17 nations that
participate in the European Monetary Union need to expel weaker
members such as Greece, according to Kit Juckes, head of
currency strategy at Societe Generale SA in  London .  “ Europe  has to choose. My best guess is they will make a
choice that doesn’t have all these countries in it,” Juckes
said at the conference. “The dumbest choice is to make that
decision under pressure.”  The euro has depreciated 3.5 percent in the past six
month against nine developed-nation counterparts, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has
gained 6.6 percent and the dollar has risen 7.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  