-- Ticonderoga Securities Said to Close After Effort to Bolster Capital Fails
-- B y   J o s h   F i n e m a n   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-01-24T19:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/ticonderoga-securities-said-to-close-after-effort-to-bolster-capital-fails.html
Ticonderoga Securities LLC, the  New
York  brokerage with about 75 employees, will halt operations
after an attempt to boost capital fell through, according to
people with direct knowledge of the decision.  Senior managers told employees today that the firm is
closing by week’s end, said two of the people, who declined to
be identified because the plan hasn’t been announced publicly.  Brokerages are under pressure as debt and equity trading is
curbed by investor concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis may deepen.
WJB Capital Group Inc. shut its doors this month. MF Global
Holdings Ltd. filed for bankruptcy Oct. 31 after getting margin
calls and bank demands for money.  Shawn McLoughlin, Ticonderoga’s chief executive officer,
said he couldn’t comment on its plans.  The company, formerly Reynders, Gray & Co., was founded in
1979 and renamed Ticonderoga in 2009, according to its  website .
The firm provides research and services spanning investment
banking, sales and trading. Ticonderoga closed its fixed-income
business in August, six months after starting the unit, as
trading volumes declined.  Average daily trading volume on major U.S. exchanges fell
20 percent last year from 2009 amid a financial crisis in the
U.S., a downgrade of the nation’s debt and concern the European
sovereign-debt crisis could spread.  WJB Capital, which was based in New York and employed about
100 people, halted its brokerage operations following a year of
slower trading, a shortage of capital and interest rates of 25
percent on some debts. MF Global, the New York-based firm
previously run by former New Jersey governor and ex-Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. co-chairman  Jon Corzine , shuttered after
revealing a $6.3 billion bet on the bonds of some of Europe’s
most-indebted nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Fineman in New York at 
 jfineman@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  