-- High Unemployment Is a Welfare State Failure, Wickman-Parak Says
-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n
-- 2012-01-24T11:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/high-unemployment-is-a-welfare-state-failure-wickman-parak-says.html
Sweden ’s central bank has limited
scope in fighting unemployment as the high joblessness since the
crisis in the early 1990s “implies the failure of the welfare
state,” Riksbank Deputy Governor Barbro Wickman-Parak said.  “It is important to use every means to improve conditions
on the labor market,” she said today at a Labor union
conference in  Stockholm . “But it is equally important that this
debate is realistic. From time to time, we have to remind
ourselves that the possibilities monetary policy has in this
area have their limits.”  The deputy governor emphasized that monetary policy can
affect  unemployment  in the short term by increasing demand in
the economy while in the longer term policy can’t influence
fundamental conditions for growth and unemployment. The bank can
strive to stabilize employment without “prejudicing” its 2
percent inflation target, she said.  Sweden’s central bank last month cut its benchmark rate by
a quarter point to 1.75 percent to guard against the fallout
from  Europe ’s debt crisis. Policy makers signaled they would
keep rates unchanged over the next year and then raise the rate
to about 2.5 percent by the end of 2013, while forecasting
unchanged unemployment of about 7.5 percent.  “Several debaters have previously claimed that an incorrect
balance in monetary policy has made a significant contribution
to the negative developments in the labor market,” she said.
“Naturally, we should not conduct a monetary policy that leads
to demand being unnecessarily low and to unemployment becoming
higher than it would have been because we single-mindedly react
to the risk of inflation rising.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger  at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  