-- IMF: European Debt Poses Risk to U.S.
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-01-24T16:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/imf-european-debt-poses-risk-to-u-s-.html
The European debt crisis threatens
to spill over to the U.S. and  emerging markets , requiring a
bigger financial firewall, more bank recapitalization and limits
on bank deleveraging, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  While European policy makers have taken steps to contain
the crisis, it still poses risks to U.S. stability and may
spread to emerging markets beyond central and Eastern Europe,
the IMF said. The U.S. in particular is at risk, including the
direct exposure of banks, according to the IMF.  ”The global financial system remains fragile,” Jose
Vinals, the director of the IMF’s monetary and capital markets
department, said today in Washington. “This makes it urgent to
restore confidence in the euro area and beyond. Otherwise we run
the risk of a deepening of the crisis with far reaching global
economic and social consequences.”  Europe  should build a larger “firewall” to contain the
crisis, the IMF said in an update of its Global Financial
Stability Report released today. It should create a monitor to
ensure that “deleveraging plans are consistent with sustaining
the flow of credit to support economic activity and to avoid a
downward spiral in asset prices.”  The IMF suggested that the European Banking Authority, the
European Systemic Risk Board, bank supervisors and banks
themselves could help coordinate monitoring and limiting
deleveraging in home countries and abroad.  Capital Injections  “While some deleveraging may be unavoidable, the way it is
done makes a difference -- there is a ‘good’ and ‘bad’
deleveraging,” the IMF said. It also recommended direct capital
injections into banks in some cases.  The report follows a speech by IMF Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  yesterday in Berlin, where she urged European
policy makers to increase their bailout fund and share fiscal
risks.  Euro-area countries have been setting up financial
arrangements designed to stop the crisis from spreading to
countries outside the 17-nation region, a process known as
constructing a “firewall.” Those structures include the
European Stability Mechanism, known as the ESM, with a planned
funding of 500 billion euros ($651 billion).  Without a bigger firewall, countries such as Italy and
 Spain  could be forced “into a solvency crisis by abnormal
financing costs,” Lagarde said in Berlin.  Strengthen ESM  ”The firewall needs to be sufficiently large and
convincingly built to avoid abnormally high funding costs for
sovereigns’ index,” Vinals said. ”To do this it will be
important to strengthen in advance work on the European
Stability Mechanism, the ESM, as soon as possible.”  The IMF, which sees a potential financing need of $1
trillion globally in coming years, is seeking as much as $500
billion in new lending resources to play its part, Lagarde said.  The German government yesterday floated the idea of
combining Europe’s two rescue funds to create a bigger firewall.
 Germany  may be open to boosting the combined aid limit from 500
billion euros when a permanent fund runs alongside the temporary
fund starting in July, government officials in Berlin said.  Germany, Europe’s dominant economic power, gave the
strongest signal yet that it would allow the roughly 250 billion
euros left in the temporary rescue fund to be tapped once the
permanent fund is set up. Such a step would boost Europe’s
unspent crisis-fighting capacity to around 750 billion euros. In
addition, 150 billion euros would be pledged by euro-area
central banks to the IMF.  Provide Liquidity  The IMF said it would be “highly desirable to increase the
size and flexibility” of the funds as soon as possible. Until
the larger firewall is established, the  European Central Bank 
should continue the provide liquidity, it said.  The IMF recommended further recapitalization of banks
through direct government measures. Public funding should be
made available to banks as a backstop, given the challenges in
accessing private capital, the IMF said. Some of the bank
capital could be raised along with government injections, it
said.  Further, the IMF said there needs to be a euro facility to
take direct stakes in banks and bank guarantee plans to reopen
the private markets. Yesterday, Lagarde called for the facility
within the region to have the power to take direct stakes in
banks to help end a “vicious cycle” between banks and
sovereigns.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  tumbled 11 percent last year,
while the MSCI All-Country World Index slid 9.4 percent and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell less than 0.1 percent. Banks
led losses in equities in 2011, with European lenders falling 32
percent as a group and financial shares in the  S&P 500  slumping
18 percent.  Euro-Area Contraction  The IMF today predicted that euro-area’s economy would
contract 0.5 percent this year.  At the end of 2011, more than two-thirds of euro-area
sovereign debt had credit-default swap spreads of more than 200
basis points, the IMF said.  The crisis is already showing signs of reaching the U.S.
through funding strains in the broader economy with tight
conditions for obtaining bank credit and  money market funds 
scaling back credit to the euro banks. This is already
demonstrated in the widening of interbank spreads in dollar
markets since mid-2011 along with the widening of euro interbank
spreads, the IMF said.  U.S. Susceptible  “The  U.S. economy  is susceptible to a range of shocks from
the euro area, reflecting the close financial and trade
integration extending across the Atlantic,” the IMF said.
“Potential spillovers could include direct exposures of U.S.
banks to euro area banks or the sale of U.S. assets by European
banks.”  While emerging markets have been “resilient” to shocks,
recent indicators and the general business climate have
weakened, the IMF said. As credit channels become impaired,
European banks could pull back cross-border lending.  Euro-area banks provide about 30 percent of trade and
project finance in the Asia region, even though their balance
sheets account for only 5 percent of bank assets, the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in  Washington  at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  