-- IMF Cuts Eastern European Growth Forecast on Euro Debt-Crisis Contagion
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-01-24T15:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/imf-cuts-eastern-european-growth-forecast-on-euro-debt-crisis-contagion.html
The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its growth forecast for central and eastern Europe, which as
other regions in the world is threatened by “strains in the
euro area,” the Washington-based lender said.  Central and eastern European economies will expand a
combined 1.1 percent this year, down 1.6 percentage points from
a September forecast, the IMF predicted today in an update to
its semi-annual World Economic Outlook. The revision mirrors a
1.6 percentage-point cut in the estimate for the euro region,
which the IMF forecasts will contract 0.5 percent.  The unresolved debt crisis in the euro region has infected
emerging economies in the continent’s east that rely on western
Europe as an export market and source of investment. Western
European banks, which control about three-quarters of the
region’s banking industry, pose another threat as they are
forced by regulators to recapitalize themselves, often by
shedding assets, to guard against the effect of the euro crisis.  “The adverse spillover effects are expected to be largest
for central and eastern  Europe , given the region’s strong trade
and financial linkages with the euro area economies,” the IMF
said in the report.  Growth in the region, which includes Poland and  Hungary ,
will slow from an estimated 5.1 percent last year, the IMF said.
The economies will grow 2.4 percent in 2013, the IMF said,
reducing its September forecast by 1.1 percentage points.  The IMF includes  Turkey  in its definition of central and
eastern Europe, excluding  Russia  and former Soviet countries.  Russia will expand 3.3 percent this year and 3.5 percent in
2013, the IMF said, cutting its previous estimates by 0.8
percentage point and 0.5 percentage point. The  Commonwealth of
Independent States  will expand 3.7 percent this year and 3.8
percent in 2013, according to the IMF.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  