-- IMF Says Reducing Greek Debt Alone Not Enough to Revive Economy
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-01-24T20:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/imf-says-reducing-greek-debt-alone-not-enough-to-revive-economy.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
a plan for bondholders to shoulder some of the cost of a second
bailout for  Greece  won’t revive the country’s economy without
measures to bolster the country’s competitiveness.  ‘It’s important to understand what problems Greece is
facing: the public debt problem and the competitiveness
problem,’’  Olivier Blanchard , the fund’s chief economist, said
today at a news conference in Washington. “In order to get out
of the hole it has to solve both problems.”  European finance ministers at their meeting in Brussels
yesterday told Greek officials to go back to the negotiating
table with bondholders, saying the country should exchange
existing securities for new ones at lower  interest rates  than
what creditors are offering. At the same time, they said
Greece’s commitment to fiscal and structural reforms needed to
be strengthened if the country is to receive 130 billion euros
($169 billion) in public funds under a second package.  “It was decided that the banks, private lenders, would
also take losses,” IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  told
France 2 television today in Paris. “Now we have to know how
much. The time has come to get serious.”  Lagarde said she has no doubt that political will existed
for an agreement, though it had to be coordinated and required
an effort “on the part of everyone, notably the banks.”  The IMF “has made it clear” that it thinks Greek debt as
a percentage of gross domestic product shouldn’t exceed 120
percent by 2020, Blanchard said, adding that it’s the result the
debt swap negotiations needed to achieve.  The Washington-based IMF today cut its forecast for global
growth today and warned that the European debt crisis threatens
to derail the world economy. Blanchard said there remained a
risk that the European crisis could intensify, plunging the
world into another recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ; 