-- IMF Cuts Global Growth Forecast; Sees Recession
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-01-24T20:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/imf-cuts-global-growth-forecast-to-3-9-from-4-5-sees-european-recession.html
The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its forecast for global growth and warned that the European debt
crisis threatens to derail the world economy.  “The epicenter of the danger is Europe but the rest of the
world is increasingly affected,”  Olivier Blanchard , the fund’s
chief economist, said today at a news conference in Washington.
“There’s an even greater danger, namely that the European
crisis intensifies. In this case the world could be plunged into
another recession.”  The fund, in an update of its World Economic Outlook
report, lowered its estimate for global growth this year to 3.3
percent from a September forecast of 4 percent. The expansion
next year will be 3.9 percent, down from 4.5 percent. The euro
area may enter a “mild recession” in 2012 as it shrinks 0.5
percent. The U.S. outlook was unchanged at 1.8 percent growth.  The forecasts hinge on increased efforts in the 17-country
euro area to fight the financial turmoil. The IMF called on
European policy makers to increase the size of the region’s
rescue fund and for the  European Central Bank  to continue its
support of the region to limit contagion to other countries.  Stocks fell as talks over Greek debt restructuring reached
a stalemate. The  S&P 500  dropped 0.2 percent to 1,313.20 at 2:08
p.m. New York time, after declining as much as 0.8 percent
earlier.  ‘Noticeably Deteriorated’  “The near-term outlook has noticeably deteriorated,” the
IMF said in the report.  Blanchard said the worst could be avoided “with the right
set of measures.”  Confidence in Europe’s strategy for coping with the crisis
was dealt a setback late yesterday in Brussels when European
finance ministers pushed bondholders to provide greater debt
relief for Greece.  Euro governments sought to fill a deeper-than-expected hole
in  Greece ’s finances by saddling investors with a lower interest
rate on exchanged bonds, setting up a confrontation in the runup
to a Jan. 30 European Union summit. At the same time, efforts to
shore up Greece were flanked by headway on a German-inspired
deficit-reduction treaty and indications that a cap on rescue
lending might be boosted.  To avoid a 1930s-style worldwide depression, the IMF
Managing Director Christine Lagarde yesterday called on other
countries to play their part. The IMF, which co-finances loans
to Greece, Ireland and  Portugal , identified a potential global
financing need of $1 trillion in coming years and is seeking
$500 billion in new lending resources from its member countries
to address potential loan demand.  Developing Economies  The IMF predicts growth of 5.4 percent in developing
economies this year, down from 6.1 percent forecast in
September, reflecting “the deterioration in the external
environment, as well as the slowdown in domestic demand in key
emerging economies,” according to the report.  China ’s estimated expansion was cut to 8.2 percent from 9
percent.  India  is expected to grow 7 percent in 2012, 0.5
percentage point less than in September forecasts. A forecast
for  Brazil  was lowered by 0.6 percentage point to 3 percent.  Richer nations will expand 1.2 percent this year instead of
1.9 percent, the IMF said.  Japan  is seen growing 1.7 percent,
0.6 percentage point slower than four months ago.  Survey of Economists  The estimated expansion compares with world growth of 3.8
percent in 2011 and 5.2 percent in 2010. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News from Jan. 6 to Jan. 11 forecast global expansion
of 3.4 percent this year and 4 percent in 2013, according to the
median of 72 forecasts.  Italy  and  Spain ’s outlooks had the steepest cuts among
large developed economies. Italian gross domestic product will
contract 2.2 percent this year compared with a prior forecast
for 0.3 percent growth, while Spanish GDP will shrink 1.7
percent compared with a previously estimated 1.1 percent
expansion, the fund projected.  Greek (GDBR10)  and Italian bonds had their worst years on record in
2011 as  Europe ’s financial woes intensified, also halting a two-
year rally in equities. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index tumbled 11
percent last year and the MSCI All-Country World Index slid 9.4
percent.  More recently, investor demand for short-term sovereign
debt such as Spanish and Italian two-year notes has rallied
across the euro area since the ECB issued 489 billion euros
($637 billion) in unlimited three-year loans to euro-region
banks last month.  Bond Purchases  The Frankfurt-based ECB also has bought 217 billion euros
of bonds from distressed member countries since May 2010. It
kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 1 percent this month
following two straight reductions.  “The ECB should continue to provide liquidity and stay
fully engaged in securities purchases to help maintain
confidence in the euro,” the IMF said in the report.  It also recommended “additional and timely monetary
easing” in Europe while more broadly calling for supportive
 monetary policy  in advanced economies.  The IMF cautioned countries that have fiscal room to
maneuver, including in the euro area, against “overdoing fiscal
adjustment in the short term” because it may damp growth
further and damage market confidence.  ‘Political Paralysis’  That’s also a risk in the U.S., where the IMF sees
“political paralysis” potentially leading to an abrupt
unwinding of stimulus spending. Still, the U.S. and Japan need
to spell out their plans to reduce debt in the medium term
because “neither country can take for granted its status as a
safe haven.”  In advanced economies, “continued adjustment is necessary
for medium-term debt sustainability, but should ideally occur at
a pace that supports adequate growth in output and employment,”
the IMF said in its separate Fiscal Monitor report released
today.  The IMF based its forecasts on oil at $99 a barrel, close
to current trading prices, and sees non-oil commodities prices
falling by 14 percent this year. Emerging economies need to
focus on responding to weakening domestic demand and slowing
external demand, the IMF said.  Developing economies where inflation is under control and
that have surpluses, such as China, should boost spending for
the poorest, it said. Countries with less fiscal room including
“many” in  Latin America  should stop raising  interest rates .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  