-- India Unexpectedly Cut Reserve Ratio as BRIC Nations Act to Protect Growth
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-01-24T12:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/india-lowers-reserve-ratio-as-bric-nations-move-to-protect-economic-growth.html
India ’s central bank unexpectedly
cut the amount of deposits lenders need to set aside as reserves
for the first time since 2009 and signaled future interest-rate
cuts, joining BRIC nations in shielding growth. Stocks rose.  The  Reserve Bank of India  reduced the  cash reserve ratio  to
5.5 percent from 6 percent, it said in a statement in Mumbai
today. The move adds around 320 billion rupees ($6.4 billion)
into lenders, it said. Three of 21 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey predicted the decision, with two foreseeing a
quarter-point cut and the rest no change. The central bank left
the benchmark  repurchase rate  at 8.5 percent for a second month.  Brazil ,  China  and  Russia  have either cut borrowing costs or
lenders’ reserve requirements in recent weeks as the debt crisis
in  Europe  saps global expansion. While India’s inflation, stoked
by rupee weakness, is the fastest in the group, it eased to a
two-year low last month, giving Governor Duvvuri Subbarao more
room to inject cash into a slowing economy.  “If they didn’t do the reserve ratio cut, there was a risk
of liquidity deficit adding to the downside risks to growth,”
said Leif Eskesen, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in
 Singapore . “It’s a bit premature to cut rates now given risks
to inflation from bottlenecks in the economy and the decline in
the rupee.”  Indian stocks rose to a more than two-month high as the  BSE
India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  closed up 1.5 percent. The yield on the
8.79 percent note due November 2021 rose 20 basis points, or
0.20 percentage point, to 8.37 percent on speculation the RBI
may halt bond purchases following the reserve ratio cut.  Growth Concern  India’s rupee, which has surged about 6.3 percent against
the  U.S. dollar  this year, was little changed. It is  Asia ’s best
performer this year after sliding 16 percent in 2011.  “The growth-inflation balance of the monetary policy
stance has now shifted to growth, while at the same time
ensuring that inflationary pressures remain contained,” the
central bank said in today’s  statement .  The reduction in the reserve ratio, effective Jan. 28, aims
to “address structural pressures on liquidity in a way”
consistent with the prevailing monetary stance, the RBI said.
The persistence of “tight liquidity conditions” could disrupt
the flow of credit and further exacerbate growth risks, it said.  The  Reserve Bank  today cut India’s growth forecast to 7
percent in the year through March from the 7.6 percent predicted
in October. It kept the inflation estimate at 7 percent. The
benchmark wholesale-price index rose 7.47 percent in December.  Rate Cuts ‘Premature’  Inflationary threats make it “premature” to start cutting
rates, it said. These risks include the fiscal deficit, the
rupee’s fall and suppressed inflation from the domestic prices
of some administered products such as coal, it said.  At the same time, the reserve-ratio cut “can be viewed as
a reinforcement of the guidance that future rate actions will be
towards lowering them,” the central bank said.  All 21 respondents in Bloomberg’s  survey  predicted no
change in the repurchase rate today.  The Reserve Bank also said that without “credible fiscal
consolidation” it will be “constrained” from lowering the
repurchase rate.  Economic growth will be “slightly” faster in the fiscal
year starting April 1 with inflation showing “some moderation”
while remaining vulnerable to “upside risks,” the RBI said.  The monetary authority has added 718.8 billion rupees into
the banking system since the start of November by buying
 government securities  from lenders.  Bond Purchases  Subbarao told a briefing that it was too early to decide
whether to continue with the program. Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said later the reserve ratio cut doesn’t rule out further
such open market operations.  India’s  inflation  rate last month compares with 6.5 percent
in Brazil, 6.1 percent in Russia and China’s 4.1 percent.  Brazil on Jan. 18 cut its benchmark rate by half a point
for a fourth straight policy meeting to shield the economy.
Russia last month unexpectedly reduced its benchmark rate. China
in November cut the amount of cash that banks must set aside as
reserves for the first time since 2008.  Higher borrowing costs in India are hurting demand.  Maruti
Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , maker of almost half the cars sold in the
country, said Jan. 2 that its local sales for the April to
December period declined 17 percent.  Commercial banks sanctioned 339 billion rupees of loans in
the three months through September, a 77 percent drop from the
same quarter in the previous year, according to RBI data.  “The rate cycle according to me has peaked and therefore
now it is time to focus on growth,” said R. Gopalan, the top
bureaucrat in the department of economic affairs at the Ministry
of Finance.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is under pressure to boost
expansion following a struggle to attract more  foreign 
investment, street protests against inflation and corruption
allegations against officials.  His government faces at least five regional elections
starting this month, including one in  Uttar Pradesh , India’s
most populous state. National polls are due in two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Murray at 
 bmurray@bloomberg.net  