-- Indian Rupee Leads Asian Currency Gains on Surprise Reduction in Reserves
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-01-24T09:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/indian-rupee-leads-asian-currency-gains-on-surprise-reduction-in-reserves.html
India ’s rupee led gains in Asian
currencies as the central bank unexpectedly lowered the cash-
reserve requirement for lenders for the first time since 2009
and signaled future interest-rate cuts to support growth.  The rupee appreciated past 50 a dollar, a level last
breached in November, as the  Reserve Bank  of India reduced the
amount of funds banks must set aside as reserves to 5.5 percent
from 6 percent, while keeping the benchmark rate unchanged.
Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand have all cut borrowing
costs to spur their economies amid  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “Asian central banks are taking steps to prop up growth
and support their economies and currencies,” said Vikas Babu, a
trader at state-run  Andhra Bank  in Mumbai. “Developments in
Europe will be a key determining factor on the outlook.”  The rupee advanced as much as 0.3 percent to 49.9250 per
dollar, the strongest level since Nov. 14, and traded at 49.9750
as of 2:25 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Philippine peso rose 0.2 percent to 43.17 and
Indonesia’s rupiah declined 0.5 percent to 8,990.  Onshore financial markets were closed in  China ,  Hong Kong ,
 Taiwan ,  Singapore , South Korea and Malaysia for the Chinese New
Year holiday.  International investors  boosted  holdings of Indian debt by
$3.4 billion this month through Jan. 20 to $29.4 billion and
investments in stocks rose $1.4 billion, exchange data show.  Policy makers left borrowing  costs  at 8.5 percent, as
predicted by all 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Economic growth is weakening more than anticipated and inflation
remains “high” as the rupee’s 9 percent loss in the past 12
months threatens to push up prices, the central bank said
yesterday.  Importer Demand  Thailand ’s baht declined, retreating from its strongest
level in almost three weeks, on speculation importers increased
demand for the dollar to take advantage of the more favorable
exchange rate.  The currency slipped 0.1 percent to 31.44 per dollar. It
advanced 1.7 percent in the last five days as global funds
 bought  $1.5 billion more of the nation’s bonds than they sold in
seven days of net purchases through yesterday, according to the
Thai Bond Market Association. Official data last week showed
imports climbed 19.1 percent in December from a year earlier
after sliding 2.4 percent the previous month.  “Importers are likely to buy the dollar today because it’s
a lot cheaper than last week,” said Norawit Suparinayok, a
foreign-exchange trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl. “Many people
expect the dollar’s weakness will be short-lived amid the
lingering European debt crisis. It’s a good opportunity to buy
the dollar at the current level.”  No Intervention  Indonesia ’s rupiah fell, snapping a four-day gain, on
speculation the central bank refrained from intervening to
support the currency after it gained by the most in two years
last week.  Bank Indonesia hasn’t been in the market today, according
to Wiling Bolung, head of treasury at ANZ Panin Bank in Jakarta.
The rupiah appreciated 1.5 percent last week on optimism a
credit-rating upgrade by Moody’s Investors Service will boost
demand for Indonesian assets.  “Bank Indonesia is always monitoring the market and it
will come in when it thinks it’s the right time,” Bolung said.
“It will be a quiet day today because of the holidays.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 