-- India’s Bonds Slump on Speculation RBI May Halt Debt Purchases
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-01-24T12:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/india-s-bonds-slump-on-speculation-rbi-may-halt-debt-purchases.html
India ’s 10-year bonds fell the most
in 26 months on speculation the central bank will halt buying
government notes after reducing reserve  requirements  for banks
to ease a cash squeeze.  Yields rose to a two-week high after  Reserve Bank  of India
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said it’s too “early to decide”
whether the central bank will continue with debt purchases. The
monetary authority has bought 719 billion rupees ($14.4 billion)
of sovereign notes, since resuming securities purchases in
November. The RBI reduced the  cash reserve ratio  to 5.5 percent
from 6 percent today. That would add about 320 billion rupees to
the banking system, according to the monetary authority.  “The fear among investors is that the open market auctions
will be stopped as the CRR reduction will inject liquidity,”
said J. Moses Harding, executive vice president at IndusInd Bank
Ltd. in Mumbai. “Debt sales by the  finance ministry  are also a
worry.”  The yield on the 8.79 percent bonds due November 2021 rose
20 basis points, or 0.20 percentage point, to 8.37 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. That is
the biggest advance for a benchmark 10-year bond since Nov. 30,
2009.  A reserve ratio cut was predicted by three of 21 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey, while the rest forecast no change.
The RBI held its  repurchase rate  unchanged at 8.5 percent today.  Record Borrowing  India boosted its annual debt-sales target by 8.5 percent
last month to a record 5.1 trillion rupees.  “We will see how the CRR cut rolls out, we will look at
the borrowing program and only if necessary we will do open
market operations,” Subbarao said in a briefing to reporters.
The objective of buying bonds was not to target debt yields and
such purchases were driven by a cash crunch, his deputy Subir
Gokarn said.  Lenders borrowed an  average  1.1 trillion rupees a day from
the central bank to meet shortages in the past three months, up
from 461 billion rupees in the prior period, official data show.  The reserve ratio decision aims to “address structural
pressures on liquidity in a way” consistent with the prevailing
monetary stance, the RBI said. The persistence of “tight
liquidity conditions” could disrupt the flow of credit and
further exacerbate growth risks, it said.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in funding costs,
rose seven basis points to 8.03 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 