-- Iowa Debacle Gives Republicans a Taste of Florida: Ron Klain
-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 2012-01-24T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/iowa-debacle-gives-republicans-a-taste-of-florida-ron-klain.html
Imagine that at the end of next
month’s Super Bowl, the scoreboard said: “Giants, 2?; Patriots,
2?” What if National Football League Commissioner  Roger Goodell 
announced that the winner couldn’t be determined because the
results of some plays had been lost and couldn’t be found?
Americans would be incredulous. The outrage would be unending.  And yet, a few days ago, a little less than a month after
the Republicans held their political Super Bowl -- the Iowa
Caucuses -- the party was forced to admit that the result of
that contest will never be known. On election night, the
scoreboard said former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney had
won; last week, Iowa Republicans certified former Pennsylvania
Senator  Rick Santorum  as the winner.  The real score is a mystery because the results from eight
precincts are unknown and the number of unaccounted-for votes is
more than enough to tip the result one way or the other.  The bottom line: The Republican field spent months and
millions of dollars; reporters and pundits devoted endless
coverage; citizens read and studied and listened and watched;
more than 120,000 Iowans came out and voted -- and our rickety
electoral machinery couldn’t produce a definitive outcome.  The  Super Bowl  metaphor is absurd, of course, because we
invest untold sums in tracking, monitoring, tallying and
recording the result of every single football play. The score
appears on a multimillion-dollar scoreboard; the game is taped
from multiple angles; the rules enforced by highly trained,
neutral officials. Any disputes are handled by recourse to
instantaneous, state-of-the-art, video replay.  Punch-Card Ballots  Why then, in the world’s greatest democracy, do voters
still vote on paper ballots tabulated by hand, on punch-card
devices that jam or misalign, and on color-the-circle bubble
sheets that misread entries that are marked in pen or filled in
outside the lines? Why are these votes tallied by interested
partisans; by once-every-four-year volunteers; by ill-trained,
paid-for-the-day workers? And how can counted ballots be lost,
vote counts mistaken without possibility of change, and scores
of votes never counted at all?  In 2000, I spent 36 days at ground zero of our nation’s
worst electoral disaster, as general counsel for the Al Gore
recount committee in Tallahassee,  Florida . Most people remember
the hard-fought battle over tallying the handful of disputed
votes that made the difference; the absurdity of  George W. Bush ’s campaign chairwoman doubling as Florida’s chief elections
officer (with the governor, the Republican candidate’s brother,
peering over her shoulder); and the  Supreme Court ’s unprincipled
5-4 decision to halt the recount that the Florida courts had
finally gotten under way by mid-December.  But the broader lesson that Florida should have taught us
is that the basic machinery for casting and counting ballots is
outdated and broken. It uses old and unreliable technology, is
too vulnerable to human error, and results in hundreds of
thousands of votes nationwide being discarded as uncountable in
every election.  The problems of Florida in 2000 weren’t unique; indeed,
they were common in our country. What made Florida stand out was
that the election was close enough for these problems to be
consequential. In the end, our electoral system was shown not to
enable a democracy, but only an “approximatocracy”: a process
that is accurate enough to tell us roughly how the voters voted,
but unable to do so with the precision needed to ascertain the
true winner of a close election.  2002 Law  In the aftermath of that disaster, Congress passed the  Help
America Vote Act  of 2002, with overwhelming bipartisan support
in the House and Senate. Among other positive provisions, the
law promised an election-systems overhaul, and it has succeeded
in almost eliminating the worst voting-machine villain of the
2000 election: the wildly unreliable punch-card system, which
failed to capture 2 percent to 3 percent of all votes cast on
it, resulting in a gigantic number of lost votes each election.
(By 2010, less than 1 percent of voters still voted on these
relics; still too many, but a major improvement).  But if the worst systems were junked, that doesn’t mean the
best were widely deployed. A study of the 2010 elections showed
that a decade after the Florida fiasco, only 8 percent of voters
nationwide used state-of-the-art, direct recording electronic
voting machines with a paper record for voter verification. That
year, almost half of us voted on paper ballots read by optical-
scan machines (which struggle to accurately tally ballots where
there are erasures or voter sloppiness) -- or by human counters.
About a quarter of us voted on electronic machines that produce
no paper records for verification and are tremendously
vulnerable to mistakes of all sorts.  Democrats are responsible for some of this lack of
progress, as paranoia about corporate-controlled voting-machine
conspiracies led some in the party to oppose the deployment of
new voting technology in the early post-Florida years.  Fears of the possibility of a corporate-stolen election
delayed technological improvements that could have changed the
reality that hundreds of thousands of actual votes are discarded
or untabulated each year.  But there is no question that the lion’s share of the
resistance to the full and rapid deployment of the best voting
technology was on the Republican side. Once the glare of the
post-Florida 2000 spotlight faded, Republican legislators and
election officials reverted to form, and did everything possible
to resist investments and improvements in our vote-casting and -
counting systems. Their crass political calculation was that
most of the voters stuck with the least reliable machinery were
poorer people in urban areas, and more likely to vote
Democratic.  As a result, these partisans reasoned, slowing the progress
in rolling out an overhaul of our voting system would produce a
net gain of votes for Republicans.  Stolen Momentum  Will conservatives change their minds now that they have
been stung by the Iowa vote-tabulation misfire, which denied
Santorum the huge momentum boost that could have been his had he
been declared the winner on caucus night? Will conservatives and
Republicans now appreciate that everyone has a stake in
America’s having the electoral system we deserve? Will they
abandon their partisan preference for unreliability in the
system, and embrace a bipartisan commitment to invest in state-
of-the-art vote casting and -counting (and verification)
machinery at every polling place in the country?  It’s too late to put such a system in place for 2012. But
perhaps after this election, all of us -- Democrats, Republicans
and independents; conservatives, liberals, and moderates -- can
come together and decide to give America the voting system it
deserves.  Let’s hope that four years from now, by the time of Super
Bowl L, we can have a system to cast and count votes (and find
and fix errors) that is as reliable as the scoreboard in the
stadium in which that game will be played. What we insist upon
for Super Sunday should be the standard for our Super Tuesdays.  ( Ron Klain , a former chief of staff to Vice President  Joe Biden  and a senior adviser to President  Barack Obama  on the
Recovery Act, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is a senior
executive with a private investment firm. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ron Klain at  rklain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  