-- Iran Says EU Ban Will Boost Oil Prices, Hurt West’s Growth
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-01-24T12:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/iran-says-eu-ban-will-boost-oil-prices-hurt-west-s-growth-2-.html
The European Union’s ban on imports
of Iranian crude will drive up  oil prices  and aggravate market
instability, the Islamic Republic said in comments that were
contradicted by some analysts.  The decision by EU foreign ministers to phase out purchases
of Iranian oil from July was “hasty” and may lead to “heavy
economic loss and damages to the crisis-stricken people of
Europe,” the Iranian oil ministry said in a statement on state-
run  Fars  news agency late yesterday.  Iran ’s foreign ministry
said the decision “would bear bitter fruit.”  The EU ban is part of efforts by the bloc and the U.S. to
pressure the  Persian Gulf  state over a nuclear program that
Western nations say is aimed at producing weapons. Iran says the
program is for civilian energy and medical purposes. The EU
measures include freezing assets of the Iranian central bank in
 Europe  and banning trade in petrochemicals from Iran.  “They were rattled by the EU actions and their ability to
reach a clear consensus, so these statements seem like more
bluster to reassure a domestic audience,” Robin Mills, an
analyst at Manaar Energy Consulting in Dubai, said today.  Crude gained since the middle of last month, partly because
of concern that Iran may close the  Strait of Hormuz , the passage
for about 20 percent of the world’s oil. The risk of disruption
is already included in prices, adding $10 a barrel this month,
said Ole Hansen, trading advisory manager at Saxo Bank A/S.  The Iranian ministry’s comments may point to an easing in
tension between the West and Iran as the Islamic Republic may
seek alternative customers before the EU embargo comes into
effect, said Mills, who worked on Iran for a decade with Royal
Dutch Shell Plc.  Alternative Buyers  “If they are able to find buyers without having to offer
too much in the way of discounts, they won’t have much of a
problem with the embargo come June,” Mills said by telephone.  Crude futures closed yesterday at 99.58 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . That’s less than the closing level on
Dec. 27, when Iran threatened to blockade shipments from the
Persian Gulf.  Increased output from members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries such as  Libya (OPCRLIBY)  may make up for a
decline in Iranian crude supply,  Oswald Clint , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a note today.  Brent crude 
may trade from $100 to $120 a barrel if other producers make up
any fall in Iran’s exports, according to Bernstein. Brent
futures were trading at about $110 a barrel on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London  today.  Yield to Pressure  “The Iranian nation has many times proved that it would
never yield to pressure and unjust moves, aimed at abandoning
its legitimate and legal rights,” the foreign ministry said in
its statement. “Any confrontation move against the independence
and advancement of the independent countries would lead to
further complication of the present day world crises,” it said.  Iran has “no concerns whatsoever for finding new
customers” for its crude, according to the oil ministry’s
statement. Europe, collectively the second-biggest buyer of
Iranian oil after  China , imported 450,000 barrels a day of the
nation’s crude in the first half of last year, U.S. Energy
Department data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  