-- Gingrich Gets $5 Million Adelson Donation
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-01-24T19:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/miriam-adelson-adds-5-million-to-pro-gingrich-pac-person-says.html
Newt Gingrich , who won South
Carolina’s Republican presidential primary and is gaining
support in opinion polls before next week’s Florida primary, got
a financial boost yesterday with the announcement that Miriam Adelson, the wife of Las Vegas Sands Corp. chairman  Sheldon Adelson , had agreed to donate $5 million to a political action
committee supporting his candidacy.  The contribution, confirmed by a person close to the casino
executive, matches the $5 million that Sheldon Adelson, a
longtime Gingrich friend, gave earlier this month to Winning Our
Future, a super-PAC that used the money for ads to help the
former U.S. House speaker in South Carolina.  While $5 million in Florida, with almost a dozen media
markets, won’t buy as much air time as it did in  South Carolina ,
the money will help Gingrich close the financial gap with former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who has led all Republican
presidential candidates in fundraising. The primary is Jan. 31.  “While the Adelson $5 million only buys a few ads’ worth
of airtime in this pricey market, it has real symbolic force,”
said  Rogan Kersh , associate dean of  New York University ’s Robert
F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service. “Coming on the
heels of Gingrich’s big South Carolina win, the splashy
announcement of this donation creates the perception of momentum
shifting to Gingrich, and in primary campaigns as fluid as this
one, perception has a way of turning into reality.”  ‘Scorched-Earth Campaign’  Tobe Berkovitz, a communication professor at  Boston
University , said in an e-mail that the money “insures the
scorched-earth campaign that is posing as the Republican primary
will continue unabated until next Tuesday.” The super-PAC
earlier paid for a film criticizing Romney’s stewardship at the
Boston-based private equity firm Bain Capital LLC, calling him a
“corporate raider” motivated by greed.  “Romney’s newfound attack-dog style, unveiled in last
night’s debate, requires that Newt hit back aggressively and
quickly,” Berkovitz said. “TV ads run by the super-PAC can
help with this goal. Plus the press will replay the attack ads
ad infinitum, maximizing exposure to the message.”  Gingrich has wasted little time trying to capitalize
financially on his 12 percentage point victory over Romney in
South Carolina on Jan. 21. Since then he has raised $2 million,
according to R.C. Hammond, a campaign spokesman, and he is
holding two Tampa-area fundraisers today before arriving in
Sarasota.  Even so, he has acknowledged that he will be outspent in
 Florida .  ‘People Power’  “Governor Romney will have vastly more money than we will,
but we will have many more people,” Gingrich said this morning
at a St. Petersburg restaurant packed with supporters. “People
power beats money power.”  The $5 million will help Gingrich compete financially, said
Steffen W. Schmidt, a political science professor at  Iowa State
University  in Ames.  “It clearly keeps Gingrich rolling and is a threat to Mitt
Romney, at least in the short run,” Schmidt said.  The question is how much even $5 million can narrow the
fundraising gap with Romney, said  James Thurber , director of the
Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies at American
University in  Washington .  “It is a drop in the bucket compared to pro-Mitt
resources,” Thurber said. “Newt is significantly behind on the
ground and with money in Florida.”  Republican state committeeman Tony DiMatteo, chairman of
the Gingrich campaign in Pinellas County, which includes  St.
Petersburg , said the disparity in campaign cash might be
overblown. He said the exposure Gingrich is getting from the
debates and media coverage outweighs an opponent’s campaign
commercials.  “There’s a certain saturation” in campaign ads, DiMatteo
said. “When the commercials come on, it’s a good time to hit
the head or grab a beer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Tampa, Florida, at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 