-- Italy Urged to Curb Cruise Ship Routes After Accident
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2012-01-24T16:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/italy-urged-to-curb-cruise-ship-routes-after-accident.html
Pressure mounted on  Italy  to ban
 cruise ships  from passing too close to its coastline more than a
week after  Carnival Corp. (CCL) ’s Costa Concordia capsized off Giglio
Island, killing at least 16 people.  UNESCO, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization, yesterday urged the Italian government to
restrict large cruise ships’ access near “culturally and
ecologically important areas.” Environment Minister Corrado Clini is working on new rules for routes along coastal areas and
plans to meet cruise companies on Jan. 26.  Francesco Bandarin, UNESCO’s assistant director general for
culture, sent a letter to Italy expressing “longstanding
concern over the risk that large cruise liners pose to sites
inscribed on UNESCO’s World Heritage List,” according to a
statement late yesterday.  The Concordia struck rocks near Giglio on Jan. 13 after the
captain, Francesco Schettino, deviated from the planned route
and instead steered close to the island, hours after the vessel
left a port near  Rome  for a Mediterranean cruise carrying about
4,200 passengers and crew. The government led by Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  last week declared a state of emergency for the
Giglio area, which lies within a sanctuary for marine mammals
such as dolphins and whales.  Italy’s  Democratic Party , which backs the government, wants
to ban cruise ships from “prestigious areas” such as  Venice ,
Capri and the Tuscan islands including Giglio, said Stella
Bianchi, head of environmental issues for the party, in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  ‘Light’ Oil Slick  Pumping oil out of the capsized ship will likely start on
Jan. 28 after divers from Royal Boskalis Westminster NV’s Smit
Salvage unit started preliminary work today, Civil Protection
Agency Chief Franco Gabrielli said at a press conference on
Giglio today.  A “light” oil slick has been identified near the island,
though it doesn’t pose a threat to the environment, Gabrielli
said. The goal is to initially remove oil from the first six
tanks of the stranded vessel, he said. That’s where half of the
of the ship’s 500,000 gallons of oil are located.  Search operations resumed today after divers used
explosives to open a breach to the third deck, which is
submerged about 20 meters (66 feet), Ennio Aquilino, a fire
department official, said at the press conference. Divers found
another body on the third deck today after discovering two
bodies on the fourth deck yesterday. The number of missing
people is 23, the agency said. Seven victims haven’t been
identified yet.  Underwater Ledge  Gabrielli said yesterday that the vessel, lying on its side
on an underwater ledge a few meters from Giglio, is “stable”
and there’s no risk it may sink.  Pier Luigi Foschi, chairman of Carnival’s Costa Crociere
SpA unit, has said Captain Schettino, who was suspended by the
company Jan. 19, steered the ship close to Giglio to make a
“salute.” Schettino is currently under house arrest.  The ship’s path on the day it hit rocks was similar to a
route taken by the same vessel on Aug. 14, 2011, according to
tracking data compiled by Bloomberg.  Costa Crociere’s Fortuna cruise ship struck rocks near
Sorrento, Italy, on the first Friday in May of 2005, according
to Roberto Cappello, who was working as an official photographer
for the company at the time, the Independent reported. A Costa
Crociere spokesman said the company isn’t aware of any accident
on that date.  Passenger Photos  Since the Concordia accident, several Italian newspapers
have published photos from passengers that appear to show some
of the cruise line’s vessels sailing close to islands or
picturesque bays such as Amalfi and the island of Procida.  Ron Starzman, managing director of Watershed Management
Corp. in  New York , said he was aboard Costa Crociere’s Deliziosa
cruise ship in September 2010 when it came close to the island
of Ponza, adjacent to Rome. “The ship rotated 180 degrees,
sounded the horn several times and eventually pulled out,
narrowly missing some shoals” by less than 100 meters, he said
by e-mail.  Costa Crociere told Bloomberg News in a Jan. 22 e-mail that
while a “touristic navigation” five miles from the coast was
planned for the Concordia on its Jan. 13 cruise, it was up to
the captain to ensure the safety of the route. Foschi said Jan.
16 that the only time he was aware that one of his company’s
ships had been allowed to sail close to Giglio was Aug. 9-10,
2011.  Costa Crociere today denied that it offered discounts on
other cruises to Costa Concordia survivors, according to an e-
mailed statement. The Genoa-based company offered passengers
assistance to return home and plans to refund all expenses,
including the cruise fare, it said. Costa is also discussing
other damage claims with consumer associations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  