-- ITALY DAYBOOK: Monti Unveils Growth Plan; Unions Balk at Changes
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2012-01-24T04:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/italy-daybook-monti-unveils-growth-plan-unions-balk-at-changes.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  presented
his latest plan to boost Italy’s economic growth in Brussels
yesterday as his government began talks with unions on a
separate effort to overhaul labor-market rules.  EQUITIES:  *Fiat SpA will halt production at four car plants and one
light commercial-vehicle facility for the first shift tomorrow
because of a strike by truck drivers, said a Fiat spokesman, who
declined to be named citing company policy. Output at the LCV
plant in Sevel was already suspended for one shift today due to
the strikes, the spokesman said. The car plants that will stop
production are in Pomigliano, Melfi, Mirafiori and Cassino, the
spokesman said.  *Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA,  Italy ’s third-biggest
bank, rose for the third consecutive session in Milan after the
lender’s board approved measures to boost capital. The shares
rose 14 percent, leading gains in the European Stoxx 600 Banks
Index, and increased the most since June 1999.  *UniCredit SpA, Italy’s largest bank, received preliminary
indications that individual investors will subscribe to almost
all the stock available to them in the 7.5 billion-euro ($9.8
billion) rights offer, said two people briefed on the
transaction.  ECONOMY:  *Italian authorities identified about 60 billion euros in
unpaid income and sales tax last year as part of the country’s
efforts to crack down on  tax evasion , the Finance Police said.
Authorities uncovered more than 50 billion euros in unpaid
income tax and more than 8 billion euros in evaded  sales tax .
Officials identified 7,500 companies and individuals with hidden
income of more than 21 billion euros who had not declared any
earnings, according to the statement.  MARKETS:  *The benchmark FTSE MIB Index rose 1.76 percent to
15,907.52.  *The 10-year Italian yield dropped 14 basis points, or 0.14
percentage point, to 6.11 percent at 4:49 p.m. London time, the
least since Dec. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  