-- Italian, French Government Bonds Fall as Optimism Over Greece Deal Wanes
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2012-01-24T16:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/italian-french-government-bonds-fall-as-optimism-over-greece-deal-wanes.html
Italian and French bonds declined as
optimism waned that  Greece  and its creditors will agree a debt-
swap deal.  Portuguese and Irish bonds also declined after Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said the program was “off
track.” The German 10-year yield climbed to a four-week high as
a report showed euro-region manufacturing and services
industries unexpectedly expanded this month.  “The latest news from Greece seems to be somewhat less
positive,” said  John Davies , a fixed-income strategist at
WestLB AG in  London . “We’d had a decent run down in peripheral
spreads and now we’re seeing some of that optimism fade.”  Italy’s 10-year  yield  rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 6.16 percent at 4:27 p.m. London time. The
5 percent bond due March 2022 dropped 0.345, or 3.45 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,302) face amount, to 92.04.  The spread over equivalent-maturity German debt increased
two basis points to 415 basis points. French 10-year yields
climbed three basis points to 3.17 percent, leaving the spread
over bunds little changed at 117 basis points.  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield climbed three basis point to 2
percent, the highest since Dec. 21.  Charles Dallara , managing director of the  Institute of
International Finance  who is negotiating with Greece on behalf
of private bondholders, said he’s hopeful of finding “common
ground” on the Greek plan as European finance ministers pushed
for greater concessions from the country’s private creditors.  Negotiation Deadline  The accord is key to a second financing package for the
cash-strapped country, which faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond
payment on March 20. Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
said the government intends to wrap up negotiations with private
investors by Feb. 1. New pledges sought by the euro area to
pursue budget-austerity and economic-overhaul policies should be
made by Jan. 30, he told reporters today in Brussels.  The yield on the benchmark Greek note due October 2022
slipped 20 basis points to 33.36 percent. That pushed the price
up to 21.27 percent of face value.  Volatility on Portuguese debt was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by Greece, according to measures of 10-
year bonds, 2-10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps.
The 10-year yield slid 25 basis points to 14.19 percent, 1.7
times the 90-day average.  Dutch 30-year bonds fell for a seventh day, pushing the
yield up four basis points to 2.72 percent, after the
Netherlands sold 1.84 billion euros of bonds due in 2013 and
2042.  ‘Window of Opportunity’  Spanish two-year notes advanced after demand rose at a sale
of 2.51 billion euros of three- and six-month bills that met its
maximum target. The yield fell six basis points to 3.11 percent.  Spanish borrowing costs have fallen at auctions since the
 European Central Bank  issued 489 billion euros in unlimited
three-year loans to euro-region banks on Dec. 21 through a long-
term refinancing operation.  “The ECB’s three-year LTRO has created a window of
opportunity at the shorter end of the curve, and  Spain  is making
use of it remarkably well,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director
of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London wrote in an e-mailed
research note. “Today’s auction is a perfect illustration of
how the funding environment has changed markedly over the past
month or so.”  Bund yields earlier climbed to a four-week high after a
euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the services and manufacturing industries jumped to
50.4 from 48.3 in December, according to initial estimates.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a reading of 48.5. A
number below 50 indicates contraction.  Confidence Rebound  ECB Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said
there are signs that investor confidence in the euro-area
economy is returning and growth may be about to rebound.  There are good indications coming “from the real economy
suggesting the slowdown is just temporary,” while the ECB’s
three year loans are providing comfort to the banking system, he
said at the Bloomberg Sovereign Debt Crisis Conference in  New
York  today.  Bunds have handed investors a 0.9 percent loss this year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. French  government
bonds  have slipped 0.1 percent and Greek debt lost 0.2 percent,
the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  