-- J&J Forecasts 2012 Profit That Misses Analyst Estimates
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-01-24T21:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/j-j-provides-2012-forecast-for-earnings-that-misses-analyst-estimates.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  Chief Executive
Officer William C. Weldon said the decline in medical spending
that started with the global financial crisis may be nearing a
bottom, leading the company to forecast a sales gain for 2012.  J&J, the world’s second-biggest seller of health products,
sees signs that the drop in elective procedures including knee
and hip replacements is leveling off, Weldon said today. That
pattern, and a return to the market of recalled J&J consumer
products, may help boost sales by as much as 2 percent this
year, the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based company said.  Elective surgeries, “could be hitting a trough right
now,” Weldon said in an interview. “People are going to be
coming back to the doctor, so we’re going to continue to invest
in those areas and hopefully when these patients come back,
we’ll be able to capture more” of the market.  Revenue may rise to as much as $66.5 billion this year,
assuming no change in currency exchange rates, Chief Financial
Officer Dominic Caruso said on a conference call with analysts
today. J&J also forecast 2012 profit of $5.05 a share to $5.15 a
share, less than the $5.20 average estimate of analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. The analyst  estimates  didn’t include the drag that
sales outside the U.S. will face from a rising dollar, the
company said.  Hopeful Indication  The medical trends are “a hopeful indication for J&J’s
surgical and device business as well as the broader medical
device group,” said Matthew Miksic, a Piper Jaffray & Co.
analyst in New York, in a note to clients. Orthopedics companies
including  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  in Kalamazoo,  Michigan ;  Zimmer Holdings
Inc. (ZMH)  of Warsaw,  Indiana ; and  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) , based in
 London , may also benefit, he said.  J&J was unchanged at $65 in New York trading. The shares
have  gained  4.4 percent in the last 12 months. Stryker increased
less than 1 percent to $52.94 and Zimmer climbed less than 1
percent to $56.55.  Pfizer Inc., based in New York, is the biggest health-care
company by sales.  Excluding currency effects, J&J expects  sales  of about $68
billion in 2012, a 4.5 percent rise, Caruso told analysts. That
would match the average forecast of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  J&J’s $21.3 billion  acquisition  of orthopedics maker
Synthes Inc., expected to close this year, doesn’t mean the
company can’t take on another big deal, Weldon said. The CEO
said he’s interested in products that will serve an aging
population, including drugs and devices to treat cardiovascular
disease, diabetes, cancer, immune disorders and orthopedics.  Right Opportunity  “If the right opportunity came along, we’d assess it, but
I think we’ll digest the Synthes deal right now,” Weldon said.
“The strength of J&J is, obviously, we have the financial
resources to really assess anything.”  Caruso tempered the outlook on the conference call. J&J
expects more pressure to lower device prices in 2012, compared
with last year, he said. The CFO said he doesn’t foresee
significant improvement in the economy this year.  Recalls of over-the-counter medications have cost J&J sales
over the past two years. Weldon said brands of children’s and
infant’s Tylenol and Tylenol cold capsules already returned to
the market, and most recalled products should be back by later
this year. He declined to say how much of its market share, if
any, J&J had recaptured.  “Our objective is to get back to beyond where we were, but
that’s not going to happen next week or next month,” he said in
the interview. “it’s going to take a lot of work but we’re
committed to doing that.”  Net income  in the fourth quarter fell to $218 million, or 8
cents a share, weighed down by $2.9 billion in charges for
litigation and product recalls, J&J said in a statement.
Earnings excluding one-time items of $1.13 a share beat the
$1.09 average  estimate  of 20 analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  