-- J&J Unit Didn’t Hide Levaquin Health Risks, Company Lawyer Says at Trial
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2012-01-24T19:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/j-j-unit-didn-t-hide-levaquin-health-risks-company-lawyer-says-at-trial.html
Johnson & Johnson  properly warned of
the risks of its antibiotic Levaquin and shouldn’t be held
liable for tendon injuries sustained by a 78-year-old man, a
company lawyer said at the end of a trial in  Minneapolis .  Clifford Straka, who blew out two Achilles tendons after
taking the drug for pneumonia, sued J&J and its Ortho-McNeil
Pharmaceutical unit in 2008. Straka said his doctor wasn’t aware
when she prescribed the drug that Levaquin was linked to an
increased risk of tendon damage in elderly patients.  Johnson & Johnson, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , has
denied any failure to warn and contended that Straka needed
Levaquin to treat the pneumonia.  “The label from day one in 1996 was adequate,” James
Irwin, J&J’s lawyer, said in closing arguments today. “The
information was out there and available to the doctors and
everyone else.”  The lawsuit is the third federal case to go to trial in
 Minnesota  alleging J&J and its unit, now known as  Janssen
Pharmaceuticals , downplayed the risks of the antibiotic to boost
sales. J&J lost the first, a jury verdict for $1.8 million in
2010, and won the second last year. The company also won the
first state case in October, when a New Jersey jury rejected the
claims of two plaintiffs.  Tendon Ruptures  J&J is facing more than 3,700 claims involving Levaquin in
state and federal courts,  Bill Foster , a company spokesman, said
in an e-mail. The lone trial loss has been appealed and 43 cases
have been dismissed, he said.  In 2008, the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  required all
makers of antibiotics in Levaquin’s class, called
fluoroquinolones, to increase warnings about tendon ruptures.
Straka, who was injured in 2006, claims J&J should have enhanced
the drug’s warning before the FDA required it.  “In 2001, all they did was insert one additional sentence
into the label mentioning the elderly and corticosteroids,”  Jim
Morris , Straka’s lawyer, said in his closing argument today.
“That’s all.”  The company “knew that this product had a relationship”
to tendon injuries, Morris said. “But they didn’t study its
frequency. They don’t know whether it’s rare.”  ‘Healthy’ Man  Straka didn’t require Levaquin to save his life, Morris
said. “This was not a situation where Clifford Straka was in
the hospital about to die of pneumonia. This was a very healthy
man.” Straka had a tryout with the  Green Bay Packers  when he
was younger and was still physically active, Morris said.  Straka was allergic to other antibiotics and needed a drug
in the Levaquin class, Irwin, J&J’s lawyer, told the jury today.  “Levaquin was the right choice,” he said. “When you
consider those allergies, you’re really only left with the
fluoroquinolones.”  The chance of tendon rupture was rare, he
said.  “Mr. Straka’s adverse event, his tendon rupture, we don’t
like this occurring in any of our patients,” he said. “But
this is a great medicine. We all know it was saving lives
throughout this entire trial.”  The jury of 7 women and 5 men will begin deliberating later
today.  The case is Straka v.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , 08-05742, combined
for trial in In re Levaquin Products Liability Litigation, 08-
md-01943, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota
(Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Hawkins in Minneapolis at  hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 