-- Japan’s Fiscal Pressure Intensifies as Tax-Boost Plan Insufficent: Economy
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-01-24T08:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/japan-says-it-may-miss-its-debt-goal-even-with-tax-increases.html
Japan ’s government said it will
probably miss its goal of balancing the budget by 2020 even with
its proposed doubling of the  sales tax , underscoring the scale
of the nation’s fiscal challenges.  The primary budget deficit, which excludes the cost of
servicing debt, will be the equivalent of 3.1 percent of gross
domestic product for the year through March 2021, the Cabinet
Office said in Tokyo today. Hours after the release, Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  reiterated his call for opposition
lawmakers to engage in talks on boosting the sales levy.  Addressing the shortfall through faster growth may be a
limited option for Japan, where the central bank has already cut
the key  interest rate  near zero and the traditional boost from a
trade surplus last year evaporated -- for the first time since
1980. Absent structural changes that boost incentives to spend
and invest, today’s report signals further fiscal tightening
will be needed to rein in the world’s largest public debt.  “To balance the budget, the rate needs to rise further,”
said  Takuji Okubo , chief Japan economist at Societe Generale SA
in Tokyo, referring to the sales-tax level. “We’ve passed the
point where we can soft-land the fiscal situation. The question
is how hard the landing is going to be.”  The Cabinet Office release assumed average growth of 1
percent annually over the period through the 2020 fiscal year.
The  Bank of Japan  today cut its projection for gross domestic
product for the year starting April 1 to 2 percent from an
October estimate of 2.2 percent.  ‘Flat’ Economy  “Japan’s economic activity has been more or less flat,
mainly due to the effects of a slowdown in overseas economies
and the appreciation of the yen,” the BOJ said. “Growth
prospects for fiscal 2012 and 2013 will likely remain broadly
unchanged because the economy is expected to gradually return to
a moderate recovery path,” it said.  Europe’s debt crisis has both hampered Japanese exports and
contributed to a strengthening in the yen, which has benefited
from investor risk aversion because of Japan’s status as the
world’s largest net creditor -- a legacy of past trade
surpluses. The currency has climbed about 17 percent versus the
dollar in the past two years, undermining earnings from
shipments abroad.  “European sovereign problems continue to be the biggest
threat for Japan and the global economy,” BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa told reporters in  Tokyo  today. “In terms of  capital
markets , tension has eased somewhat but the overall
picture concerning the fundamental problems hasn’t changed.”  The yen traded little changed today at 77.05 per dollar as
of 5:16 p.m., compared with the postwar high of 75.35 reached on
Oct. 31. Toyota Motor Corp. Chief Executive Officer Akio Toyoda
said this month the “ideal” rate is 90.  Asia ’s largest
automaker cut its profit forecast by more than half in December.  First Since ‘80  A government report tomorrow may show a 170 billion yen ($2
billion) merchandise trade deficit for December, the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey shows. That would cap the
first annual excess of imports over exports since 1980, Finance
Ministry data show. While the figure reflects disruptions to
factories after the March 2011 earthquake, UBS AG analysts this
month projected that net exports won’t contribute to growth
again until 2013.  Among other economic releases today,  India ’s central bank
cut the  cash reserve ratio  to 5.5 percent from 6 percent and
signaled future cuts. The  International Monetary Fund  will
unveil revisions to its World Economic Outlook at 10 a.m. in
 Washington . Without giving specific estimates, IMF Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday in Berlin that “we
will lower growth forecasts for most parts of the world.”  French Manufacturing  In  Europe , preliminary reports on French manufacturing and
services may show both deteriorated this month, according to
economists’ estimates before purchasing managers surveys are
released. Similar reports from  Germany  and a broader measure for
the euro region may show manufacturing and services improving,
other surveys of economists showed. A report on  Russia ’s
unemployment rate is forecast to show an increase in December to
6.6 percent from 6.3 percent.  In Japan, the central bank today kept its asset-buying fund
at 20 trillion yen, and its credit-lending program at 35
trillion yen. The benchmark rate was held in a range of zero to
0.1 percent. The unanimous decisions were in line with
predictions of all 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ‘Significant Risk’  Noda, speaking at the opening session for 2012 of the Diet,
called for improved coordination with the  Bank of Japan (8301)  on
addressing the yen and deflation, which has afflicted the nation
for more than a decade. Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told
lawmakers that letting public finances deteriorate further would
present a “significant risk to stable economic growth” and
that efforts to contain debt should be made “as soon as
possible.”  “Further fiscal improvements would be necessary” to meet
the goal of a primary budget balance in the 2020 fiscal year,
the Cabinet Office said today.  Standard & Poor’s  in November said Noda’s administration
hasn’t made progress in tackling the issue and indicated it may
be preparing to lower the nation’s sovereign grade. S&P rates
Japan AA- and has had a negative outlook since April.  Noda’s ruling Democratic Party of Japan plans to raise the
sales tax to 8 percent in April 2014 and then to 10 percent in
October 2015. Lawmakers opposing the increase in the levy have
said it may hamper growth at a time when the economy is
recovering from the March 2011 record earthquake.  More Efforts  The government is stepping up efforts to cut the  budget
deficit , with it saying today it will reduce the number of
special accounts, or funds managed separately from the main
budget, to 11 by the end of fiscal 2015 from 17. Japan had about
40 special accounts through the early 2000s and the government
has sought to reduce them and use the untapped funds and
increase fiscal transparency.  The country will have a primary deficit that’s 3.6 percent
of GDP in the year starting April 2015, today’s report showed.
The government in 2010 set a goal of halving the ratio to about
3.4 percent in five years.  Japan, which has enjoyed borrowing costs that are around 1
percent, wouldn’t be able to manage its finances if bond yields
surged to 3 percent, Noda said this month. The country risks
seeing a spike in government bond yields unless it controls the
outstanding borrowing set to approach 230 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013, according to the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  The sales tax proposal still needs to be approved by
parliament. About 57 percent of the public opposes raising the
levy, and the approval rating for Noda’s Cabinet fell to 29
percent from 31 percent last month, according to a survey by the
Asahi newspaper.  The Cabinet Office also forecast Japan’s consumer prices
will rise 0.1 percent in the next fiscal year and keep advancing
through the projected period through 2023.  The forecasts are calculated based on central government
debt. When local municipalities are included, the country will
have a deficit of 3.3 percent of GDP in fiscal 2015 and 3
percent in fiscal 2020, the government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  