-- KeyCorp’s Mooney May Boost Payout, Expand Through Acquisitions
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C l a r k
-- 2012-01-24T21:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/keycorp-s-mooney-may-boost-payout-expand-through-acquisitions.html
KeyCorp (KEY)  Chief Executive Officer Beth Mooney said she may use her firm’s “peer-leading” position to
return capital to shareholders or continue to expand through
acquisitions.  The bank may look to buy assets within the 14 states where
it already operates, adding to the pending acquisition of
branches in western New York earlier this month, and submitted a
capital plan to the  Federal Reserve  that may add to the 3-cent
quarterly dividend, Mooney said today in a phone interview after
the Cleveland-based bank reported fourth-quarter results.  “We do not see ourselves straying out of market, trying to
go into new geographies,” said Mooney, 56. “Among the capital
actions that we would have contemplated and recommended would be
a potential increase to our common stock dividend and a
potential for a share repurchase.”  KeyCorp,  Ohio ’s second-biggest lender by deposits with
1,063 retail-banking outlets, said Jan. 12 that it agreed to buy
37 branches from Buffalo, New York-based First Niagara Financial
Group Inc. Any future acquisitions would strengthen the firm’s
existing “geographic footprint,” Mooney said.  Fourth-quarter profit from continuing operations fell 31
percent to $201 million, or 21 cents a diluted share, from $292
million, or 33 cents, a year earlier, KeyCorp said today in a
statement. Revenue slid 16 percent to $977 million.  KeyCorp gained 2 cents to $8.13 in New York trading. The
shares have declined 5.6 percent in the past year, compared with
an 18 percent drop for the KBW Bank Index. Cincinnati-based
Fifth Third Bancorp, Ohio’s biggest lender, has dropped 6.4
percent in the past 12 months.  KeyCorp said its Tier 1 common equity ratio, which
regulators monitor to gauge a bank’s financial strength, was
11.28 percent as of Dec. 31, placing it in the top half of the
24 U.S. lenders in the KBW index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Clark in  New York  at 
 Pclark48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  