-- Keystone Foes Urge Obama to Repeal Tax Breaks for Oil
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-01-24T18:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/keystone-foes-urge-obama-to-repeal-tax-breaks-for-oil-companies.html
Bill McKibben, leader of a group
that pushed President  Barack Obama  to reject the Keystone XL
pipeline, urged the administration to seek repeal of tax breaks
for U.S. oil companies in the State of the Union speech.  “We want Obama today to come out against these subsidies
for fossil fuels,” McKibben said in an interview in Washington.
“They get billions of dollars in subsidies, taxpayer money,
every single year.”  McKibben and environmentalists from 350.org and Greenpeace
protested outside the U.S. Capitol over what he said is the
fossil-fuel “corruption” in Congress. Oil companies get $320
in U.S. subsidies for every $1 they give in political
contributions, McKibben said.  Obama denied a permit for  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL
pipeline on Jan. 18 after environmental groups demonstrated for
weeks outside the White House, opposing the project because they
said it would add to U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions and endanger
drinking-water supplies in  Nebraska .  The president is scheduled to deliver his annual speech to
a joint session of Congress at 9 p.m. Washington time. Repealing
oil and gas industry tax breaks was mentioned in Obama’s 2010
and 2011 speeches.  “I’m asking Congress to eliminate the billions in taxpayer
dollars we currently give to oil companies” to help develop
innovations in energy,’’ Obama said a year ago.  Democrats in Congress failed to get enough support last
year to repeal $21 billion in tax breaks over 10 years for  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  of Irving, Texas,  London ’s  BP Plc (BP) , Houston’s
 ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of San Ramon, California, and The
Hague’s  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) .  “Our deductions are standard business deductions that help
recover costs,” Reid Porter, a spokesman for the American
Petroleum Institute, said in an e-mail today. “The oil and
natural gas companies still pay more in taxes than virtually
every other industry.”  The American Petroleum Institute is the largest energy
trade
organization, based in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  