-- King Says BOE Can Increase Bond Purchases If Needed to Meet Inflation Goal
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-25T08:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/king-says-bank-of-england-has-scope-to-expand-bond-plan-to-support-growth.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said slower inflation gives policy makers room to increase bond
purchases to aid the U.K. economy and guard against a “renewed
severe downturn.”  “With inflation falling back and wage growth subdued,
there is scope for  interest rates  to remain low, and, if
necessary, for further asset purchases, to prevent inflation
falling below the 2 percent target,” King said late yesterday
in Brighton,  England . He also said tight credit conditions
“will continue to act as a headwind to the economic recovery.”  Data today may show the  economy  shrank in the fourth
quarter, pushing Britain to the edge of a second recession in 2
1/2 years. The central bank will also publish minutes of its
Jan. 12 decision to leave the target for bond purchases at 275
billion pounds ($429 billion) and the key interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2012 U.K. growth
forecast yesterday to 0.6 percent from 1.6 percent. It lowered
its global projection to 3.3 percent from 4 percent and said the
euro area may enter a “mild recession.” European finance
ministers ended two days of talks in Brussels with a push on
bondholders to provide greater debt relief for  Greece .  “The depressing effect on growth of the fiscal contraction
in the peripheral European economies is leading to a downturn in
the euro area as a whole,” King said, adding that there are
signs major emerging economies are cooling. “Taken together, we
are seeing a global slowdown.”  Nevertheless, he added that while the position of the
global economy is “serious,” there is “no reason to despair”
as “all crises come to an end.”  Bank Links  The bank’s bond purchases have helped to keep gilt yields
close to record lows. The 10-year yield was at 2.21 percent as
of 7:58 a.m. London, compared with 1.917 percent on Jan. 18, the
lowest since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1989.  King said the links between British banks and  Europe  mean
the debt crisis will create a drag on U.K. bank lending.  “Until the problems in the euro area are resolved,
concerns about the scale of such exposures will mean that U.K.
banks will continue to experience elevated funding costs,” he
said. “As a result, their ability to provide credit on
reasonable terms to businesses and households will remain
impaired.”  ‘Ferocious Squeeze’  A bright spot for consumers has been  cooling inflation 
after what King said was a “ferocious squeeze” in 2011.
Consumer-price growth slowed to 4.2 percent last month and may
continue to ease as last year’s sales-tax increase and a
commodity-price spike drop out of calculations.  “As we head into a challenging year for the world economy,
we have seen more positive sentiment in financial markets, and,
at home, a fall in inflation,” he said. “But none of this
implies that 2012 will be an easy year.”  To support lending, King said the central bank “stands
ready to provide liquidity to healthy banks against good
collateral should market conditions deteriorate.” He also said
as lenders repair balance sheets, they should limit payouts to
employees and shareholders in favor of building capital.  King also warned on the possible consequences of excessive
pay at banks for the second time in a week. He urged executives
who set pay to ensure that compensation is fair at a time when
those who didn’t cause the financial crisis are being forced to
suffer its consequences. On Jan. 17, he said banks may damage
their reputations with excessive compensation at a time when
their share-price performance has “hardly been stellar.”  “The legitimacy of a market economy will inevitably be
challenged if rewards go disproportionately to a small elite,
especially one which benefited from the support of taxpayers,”
King said yesterday. “Those taking decisions on remuneration,
in the financial sector and elsewhere, need to understand that a
market economy rests not just on incentives, but on the
acceptance that the distribution of rewards is fair.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  