-- KPN Shares Fall as Company Cuts Outlook, Quarterly Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-01-24T13:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/kpn-shares-fall-as-company-cuts-outlook-profit-misses-1-.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the largest Dutch
phone company, fell the most since 2008 in Amsterdam trading
after predicting lower profit and  cash flow  this year, following
a 63 percent drop in fourth-quarter net income.  KPN cut its forecast for free cash flow to 1.6 billion
euros ($2.08 billion) to 1.8 billion euros, compared with an
earlier forecast of approximately 2.4 billion euros, the company
 said today . The operator won’t buy back shares in 2012 after
last year’s 1-billion euro program because it needs to balance
investments with a “prudent financing policy in a period of
macroeconomic uncertainty.”  Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok said KPN will accelerate
Dutch investments in 2012 to ensure “suitable” profits after
net income dropped for two years. Phone companies are struggling
with changing consumer behavior as customers increasingly
communicate with social media such as Skype and WhatsApp.
Telefonica SA of  Spain  last year cut its dividend forecast and
announced plans to cut 6,500 jobs.  KPN “forecasts for 2012 are worse than the most bearish
expectations in the market,” Jos Versteeg, an analyst at
Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers, said by phone, “And they’re not
purchasing any shares this year, which isn’t very good news
either.”  KPN, based in  The Hague , fell as much as 9.7 percent, the
most since Oct. 10 2008, and was down 6.4 percent at 8 euros at
1:30 p.m. KPN shares fell 15 percent last year, compared with a
7.3 percent fall in the Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication
Services Index.  ‘Year of Transition’  “2012 will be a year of transition in the Netherlands, as
we aim to bottom out our broadband market share and to stabilize
our market share in consumer wireless,” Blok said in the
statement. He added that KPN’s domestic business hasn’t been
“meeting expectations.”  The CEO said the company will speed up the restructuring
program he announced last year, which will cost 4,000 to 5,000
employees in the Netherlands.  “We haven’t got enough cost flexibility compared to our
peers,” Blok said on a conference call today.  Fourth-quarter net income fell to 176 million euros from
474 million euros, the company, said today. Sales declined 0.4
percent to 3.4 billion euros. Six analysts in a survey by
Bloomberg had estimated profit of 475 million euros.  KPN took an impairment charge of 298 million euros on its
corporate market unit, formerly known as Getronics, due to
“fierce price pressure” in the corporate market for
information-technology services. KPN today announced the
divestment of the international businesses of Getronics to focus
its corporate operations on the Netherlands.  Ebitda  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and restructuring charges fell 1.6 percent to 1.34 billion euros
in the fourth quarter and declined 3.8 percent to 5.27 billion
euros in the full year. Analysts had predicted Ebitda of 1.36
billion euros in the quarter. The company sees Ebitda of 4.7
billion euros to 4.9 billion euros this year, compared with the
5.16 billion euro estimate from 28 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  KPN, which competes with Vodafone Group Plc and Deutsche
Telekom AG’s T-Mobile in the Netherlands, is accelerating
investments to strengthen its position in its home market and
the continued roll-out of mobile broadband networks in Germany
and  Belgium . That will result in capital expenditures of as much
as 2.2 billion euros this year.  “They will really have to make an effort to turn things
around, and it is clear that they’re planning to do so,” said
Frank Claassen, an analyst at Rabo Securities.  Rivalry  KPN will maintain its dividend policy and plans to increase
the payout in 2012 to 90 cents a share from 85 cents for 2011.  Competition in the Dutch mobile market will increase this
year as the government will auction licenses for mobile-phone
frequencies and has reserved some space for new market entrants.
KPN will have to spend 500 million euros on spectrum purchases,
analyst Dimitri Kallianiotis from Citigroup predicted in a note
to clients yesterday.  This month, Chief Financial Officer Carla Smits-Nusteling
stepped down because of disagreements about governance. Smits-
Nusteling, a former TNT NV executive, took the position in
September 2009. Under her watch, KPN increased its dividend and
increased share buybacks. On Nov. 1, KPN said that another board
member, Baptiest Coopmans, will leave the company on April 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  