-- Christie Pledges Gay-Marriage Veto as Democrats Push Forward
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-01-24T20:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/n-j-senate-democrats-have-votes-to-pass-gay-marriage-bill-sponsors-say.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor  Chris Christie 
pledged to veto a same-sex marriage bill, even as Democrats in
the Legislature said they have enough votes to pass it.  Christie, a first-term Republican, said he wants voters to
consider a constitutional amendment on the issue in November.
The debate should happen “in homes, schools, synagogues,
churches and ballfields across New Jersey,” Christie, 49, told
reporters in Bridgewater today.  “The institution of marriage is too serious to be treated
like a political issue,” he said.  The Senate Judiciary Committee passed the measure today,
sending it to the full Senate. Lawmakers in Washington state
said yesterday they have the votes to legalize gay marriage and
Governor Christine Gregoire, a Democrat, has said she’ll sign
the bill. Six U.S. states --  New York ,  Iowa ,  Vermont ,  New
Hampshire ,  Massachusetts  and  Connecticut  -- allow gay marriage.  New Jersey  Senate President  Stephen Sweeney  and Assembly
Speaker Sheila Oliver, both Democrats, said a bill to make gay
marriage legal is a top priority for their party, which controls
both houses of the Legislature. Sweeney said the issue is one of
civil rights that shouldn’t be placed on the ballot.  Top Priority  Supporters of same-sex marriage, including openly gay
assemblymen Reed Gusciora and Tim Eustace, said it the only way
to address inadequacies in New Jersey’s civil-unions law.  “This is the time for this,” said Senator Loretta Weinberg, a Democrat from Teaneck and a sponsor of the measure.
“It would guarantee equal rights to a large segment of our
community that has been denied them up until now.”  Democrats control the Senate judiciary panel 8-5. The bill
passed by a vote of 8-4, with one Republican absent. It heads to
the full Senate, where the party has a 24-16 majority. The
measure has the votes to pass the upper house, said Weinberg and
Senator Raymond Lesniak, a co-sponsor. Both are members of the
Judiciary Committee.  A proposed constitutional amendment would need to be
approved by three-fifths of the Legislature to appear on the
November ballot, and would then need support from a simple
majority of voters for passage.  An amendment isn’t needed and won’t be supported by
Democrats, because the constitution already guarantees equal
rights for everyone, Lesniak said.  “We had a referendum on civil rights in the 1920s when the
voters of this state voted against a woman’s right to vote,”
said Lesniak, a Democrat from Elizabeth.  Civil Unions  Christie’s predecessor, Democrat  Jon Corzine , signed a
measure in 2006 to allow civil unions, after the state Supreme
Court ordered lawmakers to extend marital rights to gay couples.
In 2008, a state panel said civil unions don’t provide the same
benefits and protections as marriage. The law is being
challenged in state court by Lambda Legal, a national gay-rights
advocacy group.  Christie said today that he believes that “the institution
of marriage, as it has traditionally been known, is between one
man and one woman and that it should stay that way in New
Jersey.”  “If this bill comes to my desk, I will veto it and I will
work hard to make sure my veto is sustained in the
Legislature,” he said. “I would certainly be willing to be
governed by the decision of the people of this state, especially
in a year when the most people will be voting.”  Gay Judge  Christie yesterday said he wanted to put the first-ever
openly gay justice on the state’s  Supreme Court . He said the
nomination of Bruce Harris, the Republican mayor of Chatham,
shouldn’t be interpreted as a sign he had changed his mind on
the gay-marriage issue.  Eustace, an Assembly sponsor of the bill who said his civil
union wasn’t recognized by hospital personnel when his partner
had heart surgery last week, said the protections have been
incomplete. The couple have been together 31 years and have a
son, Kyle Eustace-Williams, 23.  “It’s like telling black people ‘you can drink water but
not out of the same fountain as us,’” said Kyle Eustace-
Williams. “It’s ridiculous.”  Second Try  The gay-marriage bill would also need approval from the
Assembly, where hearings will be scheduled soon, said  Tom
Hester , a spokesman in the lower chamber for Democrats, who have
a 48-32 edge. Oliver expects it to pass, Hester said.  Two years ago, Democrats failed to pass a gay-marriage
bill, even as Corzine promised to sign it. The measure, which
needed 21 votes in the Senate for approval, was defeated 20-14
with three abstaining, including Sweeney. He later said he made
a mistake in not voting.  James White , past supreme director and current member of
the New Jersey Knights of Columbus, a Catholic fraternal service
organization, said, “It’s not possible for either two men or
two women” to have the same “sacred bond between one man and
one woman.”  “No act of the Legislature can change this reality just as
you can’t change an apple into an orange with this law,” White
said at the hearing, attended by more than 200 people.  Public support for same-sex marriage in New Jersey reached
a high of 52 percent in a Quinnipiac University  poll  released
Jan. 19. The issue had support from 41 percent of voters in a
2006 poll by the Hamden, Connecticut-based polling institute.  Sweeney’s decision to support the bill this time will bring
the needed votes in New Jersey, Weinberg said.  Senator Christopher Bateman, a Republican from Somerville,
said he intends to speak to Sweeney and Democrats after today’s
hearing in order to begin drafting a referendum question.  “This year is a presidential election, so why not let the
voters decide,” he said. “Voters should have a say on an issue
this important.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  