-- No Takers for Texas as New York City Trophies Find Refinancing: Mortgages
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-01-24T15:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/no-takers-for-texas-as-new-york-city-trophies-find-refinancing-mortgages.html
When it comes to the commercial-
mortgage bond market these days, location is everything.  From Webster, Texas to Providence, Rhode Island, borrowers
in the U.S. are coming up short, unable to get new loans as
about $59 billion in mortgages packaged into bonds comes due in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In contrast, $930
million has been refinanced on two New York skyscrapers in the
past month;  Vornado (VNO)  Realty Trust’s Park Avenue tower and Sheldon Solow’s 9 West 57th Street, home to Chanel SA and KKR & Co.  Lenders are reluctant to venture from major urban centers,
making it harder for property owners in smaller cities to
refinance even as unemployment falls to the lowest since
February 2009 and confidence in the economic recovery grows.
Banks and insurance companies are funneling cash to a select
pool of borrowers as mortgages from the real-estate boom start
maturing after values fell 42 percent since 2007.  “Having a New York City trophy asset in a CMBS deal, if it
is a true trophy, generally is a positive for investors,” said
Julia Tcherkassova, a commercial-mortgage bond analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in  New York . Outside of major metropolitan
areas “there are going to be fewer competitors bidding and when
the buildings lose tenants it’s difficult to replace them.”  More than half of the $19 billion in commercial property
loans packaged into bonds in 2007 that mature this year may fail
to be refinanced, according to  Standard & Poor’s . Almost $8
billion in commercial mortgages on New York real estate comes
due this year, including $3 billion of five-year loans,
according to Trepp LLC, a mortgage data provider.  ‘Trickle’ of Financing  Insurers and international banks have zeroed in on lending
to the strongest borrowers in the best markets since 2010,
according to  Ben Thypin , director of market analysis for Real
Capital Analytics, a New York-based research firm. While
appetite for so-called trophy assets will continue in 2012, some
lenders may push into smaller markets, he said.  “One of the big questions this year is whether or not the
trickle of activity we saw move into secondary and tertiary
markets in 2011 becomes more of a flood,” Thypin said. “The
economy is a big determining factor.”  The U.S. added 200,000 jobs in December and the
 unemployment rate  declined to an almost three-year low of 8.5
percent. Investor confidence in commercial property debt is also
rising with a benchmark gauge at about the highest since July.  The CMBX.NA.AJ.4, tied to classes of originally AAA rated
commercial debt most exposed to losses, has jumped 19.5 cents to
66.2 cents on the dollar since Oct. 18, after dropping from 84.8
in February, according to Markit, the index administrator.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold top-ranked
commercial-mortgage bonds rather than Treasuries has declined to
2.3 percentage points from 2.61 percentage points this year,
according to the Barclays Capital CMBS AAA Super Duper Index.  That may not be enough to bail out the Baybrook Gateway
Mall in Webster,  Texas , 22 miles (35 kilometers) southeast of
Houston.  A $41 million mortgage on the shopping center, originated
by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in December 2006 and sold as part of
a commercial-mortgage bond deal two months later, was handed
over to a firm that handles troubled loans because the borrower
couldn’t refinance debt that matured this month, according to
 Fitch Ratings . So-called special servicers determine whether to
modify loan terms or foreclose on property owners struggling to
make payments.  Texas Mall Negotiates  Baybrook, co-owned by Blackstone Group LP’s Brixmor
Property Group Inc. and JP Morgan Chase & Co., is currently
working with the special servicer to resolve the finances, Stacy
Slater, a spokeswoman for Brixmor, said in a telephone call. The
mall lost tenants, such as Linens ‘n Things Inc. which filed for
bankruptcy in 2008, she said, declining to comment further.  A $43.5 million mortgage on One Citizens Plaza, a 224,089
square-foot office building that houses the headquarters of
Citizens Financial Group in Providence,  Rhode Island , also ran
into trouble this month before its Jan. 11 maturity date,
according to Fitch. Though the building was 98 percent occupied
as of September, the borrower didn’t repay the mortgage
originated by Wachovia Corp. in 2006, Bloomberg data show.  “We are just beginning communications with the lender
about this loan,” said David Snyder, chief financial officer of
KBS Realty Advisors, a private-equity real estate investment
company in  Newport Beach ,  California  that owns the property.
“At this juncture we are unable to predict the outcome,” he
said in an e-mail.  Late Payments  Late payments on loans packaged into bonds are at 8.95
percent in December, down from 9 percent in November, according
to an S&P report. The rating company forecasts delinquencies
will rise to between 9.5 percent and 10 percent in 2012.  Borrowers with prime properties in the best neighborhoods
of  Manhattan , such as the area between 42nd Street and Central
Park, aren’t likely to struggle to pay down debt, even as they
deal with overhang from the boom years, according to Peter DiCorpo, president of CBRE Global Investors U.S. managed
accounts group.  “The assets around Grand Central or near the park district
are going to do well all day,” said DiCorpo, who is based in
 Los Angeles . “If you have an asset that is way off the beaten
path, that is going to be a harder sell.”  After losing more than half of their value from the
September 2007 peak, Manhattan office properties have recovered
to 2006 levels and remain about 20 percent below the top of the
market, Green Street Advisors Inc., a real estate research firm,
said Jan. 6. Overall  commercial property values  in the U.S. will
be at current levels or slightly lower through 2014, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a December report.  New York Finances 350  Vornado, which owns more than 100 million square feet of
U.S. properties, acquired the 538,000-square-foot (50,000-
square-meter) tower at 350 Park Avenue in December 2006 for
$541.5 million. The building was one of several in Midtown
Manhattan that were bought for more than $1,000 a square foot
during the property boom.  When faced with a $430 million loan maturing this month,
Vornado got $300 million from  New York Community Bank (89976)  and paid
the difference in cash, according to a person familiar with the
deal, who declined to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly. The original loan was packaged
into securities by Wachovia in March 2007.  “There is a long line of people who are willing and able
to recapitalize trophy assets,” said Harris Trifon, global head
of commercial real estate debt research at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in
New York.  ‘Better-Than-Expected’  The result for bond investors was a “better-than-expected
resolution, given the sponsor’s decision to fund the gap with
cash,” said Tcherkassova of Barclays.  Mark Semer , a Vornado spokesman, declined to comment.  In December, New York City developer Solow obtained $625
million in financing from Deutsche Bank to pay off $500 million
in five-year debt scheduled to mature next month on 9 West 57th.
The property, with its panoramic views of Central Park, commands
some of Manhattan’s highest rents. Some of the maturing debt was
part of the same $7.9 billion deal sold by Wachovia that
included Vornado’s 350 Park Avenue loan, Bloomberg data show.  High-profile towers became more prevalent in commercial-
mortgage bond offerings as deals became larger and Wall Street
banks gave borrowers the most favorable terms, such as assigning
property values based on projections of future rent growth,
according to Tcherkassova.  Issuance Plummeted  Sales of commercial-mortgage bonds reached a record $234
billion in 2007, Bloomberg data show. Issuance tumbled to $12.2
billion in 2008 as credit markets seized. The market stayed shut
until November 2009. Banks arranged $28 billion in 2011,
compared with $11.5 billion in 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Lenders pulled back from making new commercial mortgages
for sale as bonds as the European debt crisis rattled markets in
July and August, threatening to choke off funding to borrowers
with debt coming due in smaller cities where commercial mortgage
backed securities lenders are more competitive.  Originations have resumed, with Goldman Sachs and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  set to sell $1 billion in debt tied to shopping centers,
hotels and office buildings this week, Bloomberg data show.  “What we have is a tale of two cities,” Ambrose Fisher,
managing director for Oaktree Capital Management LP, a Los
Angeles-based investment firm with $73 billion in assets under
management, said at a Jan. 20 conference on real estate
opportunity investing in Laguna Beach, California. “Outside the
core markets and the core products, it’s difficult to get
financing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  