-- Nokia Falls Most in Two Months as Supplier Sees Sales Drop: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-01-24T16:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/nokia-retreats-after-supplier-sees-sales-falling-helsinki-mover.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s largest maker
of mobile phones, fell the most in two months in Helsinki
trading after a  supplier  warned of lower sales and Danske Bank
A/S downgraded the stock.  Nokia declined as much as 8.7 percent, the most since Nov.
22. The shares fell 6.9 percent, or 0.3 euros, to 4.1 euros at
close in the Finnish capital. Nokia was cut to “sell” based on
a decline in shipments of older Symbian phones, Ilkka Rauvola,
an analyst at Danske Bank, said in a report today.  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , Europe’s largest semiconductor
maker, said yesterday first-quarter revenue will fall as much as
10 percent from the prior three months because of lower sales at
the joint venture ST-Ericsson SA. ST-Ericsson has been a
supplier to Nokia of components including  processors for Symbian
handsets , transceivers and power management chips.  “Both sales and operating results will continue to be
challenging in coming quarters, due to the reduction in the
short term of new product sales with one of our largest
customers,” ST-Ericsson said in a separate fourth-quarter
 report  yesterday, without naming the customer.  Nokia, which reports earnings on Jan. 26, probably had a
fourth-quarter loss of  91.6 million euros  ($119 million),
according to the average of 20 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales may have fallen 21 percent to 10 billion euros, according
to the average of 35 estimates.  Software Transition  The Espoo, Finland-based company is partway through
shifting its smartphone production to Microsoft Corp.’s Windows
Phone software, replacing its own Symbian operating system. The
first Windows Phones, the Lumia 800 and Lumia 710, started
selling in  Europe  and  Asia  last quarter.  “First-half device sales are likely to be soft as Lumia
demand ramps up only gradually and Symbian declines steepen,”
 Tim Boddy  and other Goldman Sachs analysts wrote today in a
report. “Nokia remains in a challenging transition period.”  The Windows Phones are “unlikely to compensate” for the
“sudden decline” in Symbian handset shipments, Danske Bank’s
Rauvola said.  Nokia smartphone shipments may have declined 35 percent to
18.5 million units in the quarter, according to the mean
estimate of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Other handsets
probably gained 2.1 percent to 97.4 million units, 21 analysts
said. Based on analyst estimates of 446 million handsets shipped
by the industry, that would give Nokia a 26 percent share of the
market.  Lumia Sales  Shipments of the Lumia line alone may be 1.3 million
handsets for the fourth quarter and 3.2 million units this
quarter, a separate survey of analysts showed.  The first Lumias used the Snapdragon processor from
Qualcomm Inc., which includes an integrated modem replacing so-
called baseband chips used in earlier phones. ST-Ericsson has
signed a contract to supply processors with integrated modems
for later Lumia models.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , a longtime Nokia
chip supplier, today reiterated plans to wind down its baseband
chip operations as its business with Nokia declines.  Ericsson AB, the other parent of ST-Ericsson, declined 0.6
percent to 68.5 kronor in  Stockholm . Ericsson reports earnings
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  