-- Nordic Banks Lose Edge as Crisis Risks Recede
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-01-24T10:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/nordic-banks-lose-edge-as-crisis-risks-recede.html
Swedish and Norwegian banks, among
the few in  Europe  able to sell senior debt after avoiding toxic
assets polluted by the euro crisis, may lose their edge over
European peers as funding stresses abate.  “Investors who bought into Nordic lenders looking for
safety may now start returning to European banks to seek out
bargains,” Lex Van Dam, who manages $500 million at Hampstead
Capital LLC in  London , said in an interview. “European
sovereigns are getting a much-needed funding relief, while banks
are benefiting from cheap European Central Bank cash.”  Nordic banks, including Sweden’s  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , may be about to lose their role as a hedge
against the debt crisis. The ECB last month provided Europe’s
banks, whose  shares plunged  32 percent in 2011, with 489 billion
euros ($623 billion) in three-year loans to refinance maturing
debt. The cash is giving the currency bloc’s lenders a lifeline
that looks set to restore investor trust.  “We believe investors will move out of the defensive
Nordic banks into higher beta central European banks,” Henrik Schmidt andAlice Timperley, London-based analysts at Morgan
Stanley, said in a Jan. 18 note, referring to investments that
tend to have bigger moves than the broader market. “We are more
optimistic on the European banks” because of better access to
funds, narrowing sovereign yield spreads and the availability of
three-year credit, they said.  Deutsche, BNP Paribas  That may be enough to draw investors away from the Nordics,
where banks operate in markets buoyed by budget surpluses and
faster economic growth rates than in the  euro  area on average.  Sweden ’s economy will grow 1.3 percent this year, the
central bank estimates. Euro-area output will expand just 0.3
percent, the ECB predicts. Scandinavian banks have a total of 73
million euros in assets linked to Europe’s most indebted
nations. For Paris-based BNP Paribas SA alone, the equivalent
figure is 28.7 billion euros, Bloomberg Industry figures show.  The ECB’s three-year lending facility, announced in
December, is the latest in a string of measures policy makers
have deployed to support  Europe’s banks . The U.S. Federal
Reserve, the ECB and four other central banks agreed on Nov. 30
to make it cheaper to access dollar liquidity.  The same month, Sweden’s regulator told the country’s four
biggest banks, Nordea, Handelsbanken, SEB AB and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , to
target stricter capital buffers than the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision sets and to reach that goal six years before
Basel’s 2019 deadline.  Competitive Disadvantage  Shares in Nordea , the largest Nordic lender, have climbed 6
percent this year, compared with an 11 percent surge in the
Bloomberg index of European banks. Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank
AG, the biggest bank in the largest euro-area economy, has seen
its shares rise 10 percent this year. Shares in BNP Paribas,
 France ’s biggest bank, soared 17 percent in the same period.  Nordea, the first of the Nordic region’s biggest banks to
report earnings, said today fourth-quarter net income rose 2.1
percent from a year earlier to 785 million euros, beating the
662 million-euro forecast compiled by Bloomberg. Still, the
bank’s Chief Executive Officer  Christian Clausen  warned stricter
regulatory standards will make it difficult to boost earnings in
future.  “We are concerned, not only about the risks of unfair
competition from unequal regulation, but even more so about the
effects on investments, growth and new jobs,” Clausen said in a
statement today. Nordea shares slipped 0.8 percent at 11:49 a.m.
local time to 56.50 kronor.  Nordea Job Cuts  The bank is on track to cut about 2,000 jobs to stay
competitive, as announced in August, Clausen said.  The Stockholm-based Financial Supervisory Authority on Nov.
25 told Sweden’s banks to target common equity Tier 1 capital of
at least 10 percent from January 2013 and 12 percent two years
later. Basel sets a 7 percent target, to be met in seven years.  “It’s very difficult to tighten bank regulation,
especially  capital requirements , but also requirements for
funding and liquidity, in this time when Europe is struggling
for economic growth,” Clausen said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television today. Divergence in capital regulations
across borders “is bound to present a new systemic risk,” he
said.  The financial regulator in  Norway , home to DNB ASA, wants
banks to tighten mortgage lending standards and has said it may
emulate Sweden’s goal of imposing some of the world’s toughest
capital rules to protect taxpayers from losses.  Curtail Lending  Sweden’s banks say the capital rules threaten to curtail
lending. Nordea expects corporate clients to respond to the
rules by issuing more debt themselves and relying less on bank
loans, according to Rodney Alfven, head of the bank’s investor
relations department.  “Swedish banks are facing tougher capital standards and
this will hold back earnings growth,” said Espen Furnes, an
Oslo-based  fund manager  at Storebrand Asset Management.
“European lenders now have access to the cheap ECB cash so this
will be an important bridge in funding their businesses and most
investors understand this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 