-- Nordea Beats Estimates Even After Loan Losses
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-01-24T08:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/nordea-beats-estimates-even-after-loan-losses.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s
largest lender, said fourth-quarter profit rose 2.1 percent as
higher income from lending offset rising losses on bad loans.  Nordea reported a fourth-quarter net income of 785 million
euros ($1.02 billion), compared with 769 million euros a year
earlier. Earnings beat the 662 million-euro average  estimate  of
16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net interest income, the
difference between what the bank earns from lending and what it
pays on deposits, increased to 1.43 billion euros in the
quarter, from 1.37 billion euros.  The bank managed to deliver “increased efficiency in cost,
capital, liquidity and funding while we have maintained strong
income growth and solid  profit development ,” Nordea Chief
Executive Officer  Christian Clausen  said in the statement.  Profits rose after Nordea kept costs in check, and Clausen
said today the bank is on track to cut about 2,000 jobs, as
announced in August.  Sweden , whose biggest banks have combined
assets that are more than four times the size of the economy, is
pushing through tougher capital rules than elsewhere, and will
require lenders to meet the standards earlier than the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision ’s 2019 deadline. The government
argues more rigorous standards are needed to protect taxpayers
from the risk of losses.  ‘Very Difficult’  Imposing stricter capital standards in the middle of an
economic crisis also entails risks and can add to the turmoil,
Clausen said today in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
 Owen Thomas . It is “very difficult” to meet more rigorous
capital standards in such an environment, he said.  Shares in Nordea slipped 0.5 percent to 56.65 kronor as of
9:45 a.m. in  Stockholm . That compares with a 1.6 percent loss in
the 43-member Bloomberg index of European financials.  Banks, including Nordea, have argued the stricter capital
rules will require job cuts if lenders are to stay competitive.  “We are concerned, not only about the risks of unfair
competition from unequal regulation, but even more so about the
effects on investments, growth and new jobs,” Clausen said.  Nordea has steered clear of the worst of  Europe ’s fiscal
crisis and has “no direct exposure” to the currency bloc’s
most indebted nations, Clausen said.  ‘Turbulent Year’  “2011 has been a turbulent year for states, banks and many
of our customers,” Clausen said. “2012 looks just as
challenging. Nordea is prepared with a robust capital position
and good access to funding.”  Net loan losses at the bank swelled to 263 million euros
from 166 million euros a year earlier because of losses on
shipping and in  Denmark , which Clausen described as the Nordic
region’s weakest economy.  “We need to have a bit more color on the loan-loss
provisions, especially in shipping, that will help determine
much about their view for the coming year and quarters, Francis Dallaire, Stockholm-based analyst at Pareto Securities, said in
an interview. “The asset quality seems to be the one area of
concern.”  Nordea had a core Tier 1 capital ratio of 11.2 percent at
the end of the fourth quarter, excluding so-called transitional
rules, versus 10.3 percent a year earlier, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  