-- Novozymes Drops on Concern DSM Taking Client: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-24T16:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/novozymes-drops-on-concern-dsm-taking-client-copenhagen-mover.html
Novozymes A/S (NZYMB) , the world’s biggest
maker of enzymes for biofuel, fell for a fourth day in
Copenhagen trading, the longest losing streak in five months, on
concern  Royal DSM NV (DSM)  will take one of its U.S. clients.  Novozymes fell 2.3 percent making it today’s  third-largest
loser  in the benchmark Copenhagen 20 Index. The stock, which had
lost as much as 8.2 percent in earlier trading, declined 3.7
kroner to close at 155.5 kroner, giving the Bagsvaerd, Denmark-
based company a market value of 43.9 billion kroner ($7.65
billion).  Poet LLC, the largest U.S. corn-based ethanol producer by
installed capacity, said yesterday it will establish a joint
venture with DSM to produce cellulosic ethanol and license the
technology to other plants in the U.S. and globally. Novozymes
has previously provided enzymes to Poet and was expected to sell
to the  Sioux Falls , South Dakota-based company’s Project Liberty
facility, according to DnB Markets analyst Rune M. Dahl.  “With DSM being an enzyme producer and 50 percent owner of
the JV, we now consider this unlikely,” London-based Dahl, said
today in a note to clients. “This could have a significantly
negative effect on Novozymes’ potential in second-generation
biofuel enzymes in the U.S.”  The next-generation biofuels use plant waste to turn
organic waste into energy. So-called first-generation biofuel
uses food crops such as corn and sugar.  At Novozymes’ Expense  Novozymes said Jan. 19 it expects the U.S. biofuel industry
will produce about 14.2 billion gallons of ethanol in 2012,
which means the annual growth rate will slow to 2 percent to 3
percent from 4 percent to 5 percent in 2011.  “We assume Novozymes will keep delivering first-generation
enzymes to Poet’s 27 ethanol plants, but see a risk that DSM
could benefit -- at Novozymes’ expense -- over time as both the
JV and second-generation enzymes develop,” said Dahl, who has a
“sell”  recommendation  on Novozymes shares.  It will take a few years for DSM to become the exclusive
provider of enzymes and yeasts to the JV, Feike Sijbesma, chief
executive officer at the Heerlen, Netherlands-based company,
said today at a conference call for analysts.  “Of course, we will respect current contracts,” the DSM
chief said. “But at the end of the day, it is fully exclusive
for DSM.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 