-- Nuns in Street Clothing Shouldn’t Frighten Vatican: Mary Johnson
-- B y   M a r y   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-01-24T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/nuns-in-street-clothes-shouldn-t-scare-vatican-commentary-by-mary-johnson.html
The Vatican recently finished an
exhaustive, three-year inquest, the kind it reserves for its
gravest problems. The subject: “American apostolic women
religious,” commonly known as nuns.  Almost 400 religious institutions throughout the U.S. were
studied as part of this “ apostolic visitation ,” and a final,
 confidential report  on the nuns’ activities was submitted to the
Vatican in December.  Why investigate nuns? Because, Vatican officials said, they
were concerned for the sisters’ welfare. But as a former nun --
I left the convent in 1997 after 20 years as a sister in  New
York , Rome,  Washington  and Winnipeg,  Canada  -- I know what the
church leaders won’t publicly admit: American nuns frighten
them.  I should qualify that remark: Not all U.S. nuns scare the
Vatican. The Catholic hierarchy dotes on those who wear long
habits with hanging rosaries, unquestioningly obedient nuns who
staff Catholic institutions for less than it costs to employ
laypeople. But these conservative sisters, who are represented
by the  Council of Major Superiors of Women Religious , make up
less than a tenth of the approximately  50,000 nuns  in the U.S.
The majority align themselves with the more liberal  Leadership
Conference of Women Religious .  Second Vatican Council  In 1965, when the Second Vatican Council issued a decree
calling all nuns to renewal, most American sisters embarked on a
demanding, often painful process of discernment and
revitalization. They tried on normal clothes, branched into new
ministries and abandoned traditions that kept members childishly
dependent on superiors.  Some sisters felt that renewal went too far; others thought
it didn’t go far enough. The number of American nuns has shrunk
by almost 75 percent since 1965. But those who remain have
learned to listen to their consciences, make decisions
collectively and, more audaciously, speak their minds -- even if
it means opposing the Vatican.  To  Rome , these liberal nuns are voices of dangerous
dissent: Cardinal Franc Rode, who initiated the new
investigation of American sisters, stated on  Vatican radio  two
years ago that U.S. nuns display a suspect “secular mentality”
and “feminist spirit.”  In 1976, at age 19, I joined Mother Teresa’s  Missionaries
of Charity , a traditional community of nuns. Liberal American
sisters in polyester didn’t appeal to me; Mother Teresa’s
mission to the poorest did. I didn’t realize the community would
observe every Vatican decree as though it came directly from
God.  I was told that the highest use of my intellect was its
unquestioning surrender in obedience; my superiors would always
tell me what God asked of me. Eventually, I came to see that the
Missionaries of Charity’s anti-intellectualism and rigid
separation from the world stunted our work and each sister’s
development. Modern nuns’ encouragement of individuals’ gifts
and responsibilities no longer seemed like egocentric
selfishness -- it seemed like oxygen.  Sometimes I think that if I had joined one of those modern
communities, I might still be a nun.  Liberal American sisters are courageous women. Sister
 Jeannine Gramick , co-founder of New Ways Ministry, continues to
advocate for gay rights despite official church efforts to
silence her. In 1979,  Sister Theresa Kane , then president of the
Leadership Conference of Women Religious, greeted Pope  John Paul II  with a call for dialogue about women’s roles in the church,
including priestly ordination, despite the pontiff’s insistence
that the issue was closed.  Tragic Choice  In November 2009, the  ethics committee  at a Catholic
hospital in Phoenix on which Sister Margaret McBride served was
faced with the tragic choice of aborting an 11-week-old fetus or
allowing both mother and unborn child to die. For agreeing with
the committee’s decision to terminate the pregnancy to save the
mother, McBride was swiftly  declared excommunicated . (Two years
later, she was reinstated to the church.)  Surveys show that on  homosexuality ,  women’s ordination  and
the  McBride decision , the average U.S. Catholic agrees more with
American nuns than with the Vatican.  Sisters speak with a moral authority that the Vatican,
tarnished especially by its betrayal of the victims of clerical
sexual abuse, can no longer credibly claim.  What the Vatican can claim is power. This month, Father
Federico Lombardi confirmed that church leaders have received
the report on U.S. nuns but have yet to determine how they will
respond. They may choose to do nothing, issue a simple
exhortation or --- as more typically happens in response to an
apostolic visitation --- deliver punitive prescriptions.  The Vatican retains the power to suppress any group of
sisters -- or their activities. One critical issue is property.
In the past, the church has  sold real estate  to pay settlements
to the victims of abusive priests. American sisters own the
convents, colleges and hospitals that they have built. But if
the Vatican were to suppress a community, and no longer list it
“in good standing,” it could seize that community’s property and
put it under diocesan control. Some groups of sisters are
quietly exploring legal options to gain more independence from
the Vatican.  American nuns don’t want to fight the official church, but
neither are they likely to sacrifice the integrity of their
consciences for the sake of peace. Nuns across the country,
liberal and conservative alike, tell me the Vatican’s
investigation has strengthened them. As each group was asked to
account for itself during interviews with the church hierarchy,
the sisters’ convictions deepened.  “We know who we are, and we’re going to stand together in
our truth, no matter what the Vatican or anyone else says,” the
president of a large Midwestern community told me. The
investigation also fostered communication across conservative
and liberal divisions, softening former antagonisms.  American sisters aren’t a problem for the Catholic Church;
they’re an asset. They’re demonstrating new ways to be
communities of conscience in the world. With this report, the
men of the Vatican can continue to use their power to intimidate
anyone who appears threatening, or they can embrace the spirit
of dialogue, respect and courage shown by American nuns. I’d
love to be pleasantly surprised.  (Mary Johnson, a former sister with the Missionaries of
Charity, is the author of “An Unquenchable Thirst: Following
Mother Teresa in Search of Love, Service and an Authentic Life.”
The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Mary Johnson at  mary.johnson.bv@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katherine Brown at  kbrown114@bloomberg.net  