-- NWR Falls Most in 2 Months on Coking-Coal Outlook: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-01-24T15:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/nwr-falls-most-in-2-months-on-coking-coal-outlook-prague-mover.html
New World Resources Plc (NWR) , the biggest
Czech supplier of coking coal, declined the most in two months
after Deutsche Bank AG said investors should sell the stock,
citing a “disappointing” production forecast for 2012.  NWR fell 4.8 percent to 137.5 koruna at its 4:24 p.m. close
in  Prague , its biggest drop since Nov. 21. That made the stock
the worst performer today in the Czech Republic’s  PX (PX)  gauge of 14
companies, which fell 1 percent.  The average price of NWR’s coking coal for delivery in the
first quarter fell 13 percent to 142 euros ($184) a metric ton
from the previous three months, the company said yesterday. The
most profitable type of coal produced by NWR will make up about
48 percent of total output this year, less than the company’s 60
percent target, according to the statement.  “Our previous expectation of rising coking coal production
offsetting falling prices in 2012 will not materialize,” Tomasz Krukowski, a Warsaw-based analyst at Deutsche Bank, wrote in a
research note dated yesterday. “NWR’s disappointing production
guidance” means that “2012 earnings are likely to be under
severe pressure,” he said.  The German bank cut NWR from “hold,” lowering its price
estimate for the shares to 120 koruna from 155 koruna. Deutsche
Bank also reduced its forecast for the coal company’s net income
this year by 34 percent to 95 million euros.  “Underinvestment might be one of the reasons for NWR’s
production difficulties,” Krukowski said. “The company might
be forced to spend much more on development capex in order to
turn around declining coking-coal production.”  Global stocks slumped as negotiations on how to resolve
 Greece ’s debt crisis reached a stalemate, driving investors from
riskier assets.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BLT) , the world’s biggest mining
company, last traded down 1.5 percent in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  