-- NYC Mayor Bloomberg Backs Governor Cuomo’s Pension Overhaul
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-01-24T18:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/nyc-mayor-bloomberg-tells-lawmakers-he-backs-cuomo-s-state-budget-plans.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
told state lawmakers he backs Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s proposals
to increase payments for Medicaid, reduce pension-benefit costs
for future workers and impose evaluation standards on teachers.  The mayor told a joint session of the Legislature in Albany
of his “strong support” for many of Cuomo’s priorities in the
$132.5 billion proposed budget. He set aside past disagreements
with the Democratic governor over taxi legislation, fingerprint
requirements for food-stamp applicants and infrastructure
payments for the 9/11 Memorial & Museum at  Ground Zero .  “The governor has set an agenda for this session that is
both far-ranging and ambitious,” Bloomberg said, citing the
pension changes and teacher evaluations as his top two points of
agreement.  Bloomberg, a 69-year-old independent, presented his view of
Cuomo’s budget as he prepares a preliminary fiscal 2013 spending
plan for the most populous U.S. city. To balance his budget, now
estimated at about $70 billion, he must close a $2 billion
deficit, he said in November. His proposal is due by the first
week of February.  Medicaid Savings  New York City may save $11 million if Cuomo’s plan for the
state to gradually take over increases in Medicaid costs is
approved by lawmakers, according to budget documents. In a
report released today,  Fitch Ratings  said the shift may benefit
the city, counties and other localities.  Over the next 30 years, the city would also save $30
billion if Cuomo gets approval for his plan to raise the
 retirement age  for new workers to 65 from 62 and give them the
option of picking a 401(k)-type  retirement plan  instead of a
government pension, budget documents said. Pension costs account
for more than 12 percent of the city’s budget after rising to $8
billion annually from $1.5 billion in 2002, Bloomberg said.  “That’s something that city taxpayers, and city workers
should all want to see happen,” Bloomberg said.  Public-worker unions say they don’t want it and have been
fighting the plan since Cuomo announced it Jan. 17.  “The proposal for a new public employee pension tier is an
assault on the middle class and a cheap shot at public
employees,” Danny Donohue, president of the Civil Service
Employees Association, the state’s largest public-workers union,
said in a statement e-mailed Jan 17.  School Funds  Unions also have resisted Cuomo’s plan to withhold school
districts’ share of a 4 percent increase in education funding
unless they put in place a new teacher-evaluation system by Jan.
17, 2013. Lawmakers approved the extra spending as part of last
year’s budget, bringing the total to $20.3 billion for fiscal
2013, or about $800 million more than in the current year.  School districts haven’t adopted a teacher-evaluation
system, even as federal officials say $700 million from
President Barack Obama’s Race to the Top program could be
withheld if they don’t.  New York City  would get an additional $224 million in state
aid for its schools in Cuomo’s proposed budget, according to
budget documents.  Bloomberg said he “strongly supports” Cuomo’s emphasis on
teacher evaluation because “the education of every student in
our city and state is on the line.”  9/11 Clash  Bloomberg and Cuomo have clashed over more than $300
million each says the other owes to finish work on the  9/11
Memorial & Museum . The dispute will probably postpone the
museum’s scheduled Sept. 11, 2012, opening, the mayor has said.
Work has stopped while the mayor and the Port Authority of New
York and  New Jersey , which owns the 16-acre  World Trade Center
site , try to resolve the disagreement.  The governor, who controls the  Port Authority  with New
Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , says the memorial foundation
owes the agency $300 million for infrastructure work. The mayor,
who is the memorial foundation’s chairman, says the Port
Authority was responsible for that work, and owes the foundation
$140 million for construction delays.  Cuomo also had threatened to veto a bill sought by
Bloomberg to permit private livery cars to pick up passengers on
streets outside  Manhattan . (The two sides later reached an
agreement on that plan.) He rejected Bloomberg’s policy to
fingerprint food-stamp recipients to help deter fraud.  Working Together  The mayor has also said the city might stop using the
state’s public insurer, EmblemHealth, if Cuomo went ahead with a
plan to sell it. Of the governor’s plan last year to increase
the  tax rate  on high-earners, later approved by lawmakers, the
mayor said, “fundamentally you cannot tax your way out of
problems.”  “We both have our constituencies, we both have our ideas,
you have to work together,” Bloomberg said today in  Albany 
after meeting with Cuomo. “We work together well. It doesn’t
mean I’ll get everything I want, doesn’t mean he gets everything
he wants.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  