-- NYSE-Deutsche Boerse Said to Lack Support to Overturn EU Ban
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-01-24T20:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/nyse-deutsche-boerse-said-to-lack-support-to-overturn-eu-veto.html
NYSE Euronext (NRX)  and  Deutsche Boerse (DB1)  AG
are unlikely to garner enough support from European Union
commissioners to overturn a looming veto over their plan to
create the world’s largest exchange, according to four people
familiar with the situation.  The EU’s antitrust chief,  Joaquin Almunia , won’t face
significant opposition from other EU commissioners to his
proposal to block the deal at a Feb. 1 meeting, said the people
who can’t be identified because the discussions aren’t public.
The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, is led by 27
commissioners drawn from each of the bloc’s member states. They
must jointly approve EU decisions.  EU regulators told the two companies that they plan to
prohibit the deal to create the world’s largest exchange because
it would monopolize derivatives trading in the region, according
to two people familiar with the draft decision in December. NYSE
and  Deutsche Boerse  appealed directly to commission President
Jose Manuel Barroso earlier this month to try and salvage their
merger, arguing an EU ban would harm European exchanges and
drive business to other parts of the world.  A veto may suggest “that the regulators have renewed
confidence to torpedo high-profile deals,” said Alasdair Balfour, a London-based lawyer with Fried, Frank, Harris,
Shriver & Jacobson LLP.  National competition regulators from the EU last week
backed Almunia’s plan to block the deal, according to a person
familiar with the non-binding vote.  Barnier Letter  EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  asked for
more time to review the deal after returning from a trip to
 Asia , according to a person familiar with the situation who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.
The Financial Times reported the so-called waiting-reserve
letter earlier today.  Chief Executive Officers Duncan Niederauer for NYSE and
Reto Francioni for Deutsche Boerse get a chance to rub shoulders
with regulators including Almunia at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos this week.  NYSE spokesman James Dunseath in Davos declined to comment
on the commissioners’ stance on the deal.  Frank Herkenhoff , a
spokesman for Deutsche Boerse in Frankfurt, and Antoine
Colombani, a spokesman for the commission, also declined to
comment.  Steel-Tube Companies  EU commissioners have only once overruled the antitrust
unit’s proposed merger ban when they approved the 1994
combination of three of  Europe ’s largest seamless steel tube
companies,  Germany ’s Mannesmann AG,  Italy ’s Ilva SpA and
 France ’s Vallourec SA. EU antitrust officials had opposed that
deal arguing it would hurt competition.  A merger prohibition next week would be the EU’s fourth
since 2004 when it overhauled its rules for reviewing deals.
Previous merger prohibitions were for “clearly very
problematic” combinations, said Balfour.  The takeover would put more than 90 percent of the region’s
exchange-traded derivatives market and about 30 percent of
European  stock trading  in the hands of one organization.  Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex is the region’s biggest derivatives
exchange, while  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  owns Liffe, the second-biggest in
Europe.  The Frankfurt-based company agreed to acquire its New York
rival in a deal valued at $9.5 billion when it was announced in
February. Since then, the value has plummeted to about $6.8
billion. The all-stock transaction is intended to give Deutsche
Boerse 60 percent of the combined entity, while NYSE Euronext
CEO Niederauer would run the organization.  Possible Appeal  The  Association for Financial Markets in Europe , a group
that represents lenders and brokers including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG,
have told regulators that the takeover will hurt competition.  Companies can appeal a merger ban at the EU courts, which
takes about three years, according to Douwe Groenevelt, a lawyer
at De Brauw Blackstone Westbroek in Brussels.  “If you win, a lot of the synergies may have already been
lost so it’s a difficult decision,” Groenevelt said in a
telephone interview.  NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse can withdraw from the
merger if they are handed down a “final, binding and non-
appealable” refusal of the deal. Each exchange “must have used
its reasonable best efforts to prevent the denial,” according
to the offer document. The companies may otherwise be liable to
pay a 250 million euro ($326.15 million) break-up fee.  Cost-Cutting Opportunities  Exchanges seek to link up because they have “relatively
little control over their top lines and it’s all about cutting
costs,” said Richard Perrott, an exchange analyst at Berenberg
in  London , who rates Deutsche Boerse a “buy.” A merger “like
this offers hard cost-cutting opportunities.”  Governments have been reluctant to show support for the
merger aside from French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  who
said in November that the tie-up was an “historic opportunity”
for the Paris stock market. The German government earlier this
month indicated it wouldn’t get involved in the discussions.  Ann-Christin Wiegemann, a spokeswoman for the Economy
Ministry in Berlin, said on Jan. 13 that the decision “lies
exclusively with” the Brussels-based antitrust authority.  Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said last week
that NYSE and Deutsche Boerse’s proposed sale of NYSE’s
Amsterdam options exchange may be a risk to the functioning of
 capital markets .  ‘Political Interference’  U.K. Treasury Minister Mark Hoban last week urged the
commission to shun any “political interference” when it
decides on the deal.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  in 2001 tried and failed to
buy the London-based Liffe derivatives exchange, later bought by
NYSE Euronext.  Deutsche Boerse last week offered a package of concessions
to regulators in the German state of Hesse in response to
concerns over how the merger would affect its business in the
area, including a pledge to invest 300 million euros over three
years. Hesse will rule on the deal after the EU decision and has
the power to block the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  