-- NYSE Dream of Global Exchange Coming Apart in Europe on Derivatives Review
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-01-24T18:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/nyse-dream-of-global-exchange-coming-apart-in-europe-on-derivates-review.html
A decade-long march by market owners
toward greater worldwide scope may be ending in Europe with
antitrust regulators recommending against Deutsche Boerse AG’s
bid for  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   Should the deal be blocked, it would mean $37 billion in
exchange mergers announced since October 2010 failed to close,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Stock and derivatives
venues completed $28.7 billion of takeovers in 2007 and 2008 as
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange purchased rivals Chicago Board
of Trade and the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Governments are losing their appetite for the biggest
combinations after regulators encouraged them for years as a way
to cut costs for investors and improve transparency. Failure by
Chief Executive Officers Reto Francioni and  Duncan Niederauer  to
win approval may signal the end of an era in which the biggest
exchange companies could buy each other to expand.  “Suddenly, the authorities are unhappy about the actions
of profit-motivated exchanges that they at one time encouraged
to move to shareholder governance,”  Bruce Weber , dean of the
Lerner College of Business and Economics at the University of
 Delaware , said in a phone interview. “They see the size of the
combined exchanges as a monopoly-like threat. It’s a paradox.”  Niederauer told NYSE employees on Jan. 11 that it appeared
European Commission staff would recommend against the takeover,
which has declined 29 percent in  value  to $6.8 billion since it
was announced Feb. 15, Bloomberg data show. The companies are
unlikely to garner enough support from commissioners to overturn
a looming veto of their proposal, according to four people
familiar with the situation.  Exchange Derivatives  Frank Herkenhoff , a spokesman for  Deutsche Boerse , said in
an e-mailed statement that his company hasn’t received a
decision from the European Commission, which will announce its
final ruling in early February. He said the company doesn’t
comment on speculation.  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE
Euronext in New York, declined to comment.  Deutsche Boerse’s takeover would put more than 90 percent
of the European exchange-traded  derivatives market  in the hands
of one company. Eurex, owned by the Frankfurt-based company, is
the region’s biggest derivatives venue, while NYSE Euronext’s
Liffe in  London  is second.  Eurex and Liffe accounted for 39 percent of volume traded
in the 10 most active exchange-listed interest rate derivatives
contracts globally in the first half of last year, compared with
44 percent for  CME Group Inc. (CME) , according to  data  from the
Washington-based Futures Industry Association. Liffe’s Euribor
futures was the fourth-most-popular contract, behind CME’s
eurodollar futures, CBOT’s 10-year Treasury note and a contract
from  Brazil ’s BM&FBovespa SA.  ‘Fundamentally Flawed’  Concessions offered to appease authorities didn’t go far
enough, negotiators said at a Dec. 21 meeting, two people
familiar with the talks told Bloomberg. The companies offered
capping fees on derivatives and clearing for three years,
selling NYSE’s Liffe single-stock derivatives business, and the
licensing of the Eurex trading system to a third party to allay
competition concerns, said the people, who declined to be named
because the talks are private.  The proposed concessions “address the EU’s competition
concerns and further contribute to the creation of a stable,
regulated pan-European exchange infrastructure that would ensure
 Europe ’s competitiveness,” Herkenhoff said in the statement.
They would also “deliver significant benefits to participants
in the real economy,” he said.  The analysis by European regulators was “fundamentally
flawed,” Niederauer told employees. Antitrust officials failed
to understand that the derivatives market is global and
exchange-traded contracts compete with over-the-counter
products, he said. Exchange-traded derivatives were worth about
12 percent of the $708 trillion over-the-counter market at the
end of June, Bank for International Settlements  data  show.  Balancing Needs  Because NYSE-Deutsche Boerse would unite derivatives venues
within Europe, regulators face a dilemma they didn’t have with
earlier deals such as NYSE Group Inc.’s acquisition of Euronext
NV in Amsterdam or the London Stock Exchange Group Plc’s
purchase of Borsa Italiana SpA in 2007, Anthony Belchambers,
chief executive officer of the London-based Futures and Options
Association, said in a phone interview.  European regulators must balance the “establishment of
larger, more dominant exchanges to enhance the EU’s global
competitiveness” with the ability of rivals to compete within
the continent, Belchambers said. The  FOA  represents European
users of futures and options.  Margin Economy  Concerns about competition hinge on clearing, the process
where transactions are guaranteed by an entity that becomes the
buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer, reducing
the potential harm from a member firm’s default. Most futures
exchange operators including Deutsche Boerse own their own
clearinghouse and don’t permit similar contracts traded on
competing venues to be processed with their own.  Clearinghouses require collateral to back trades, adjusting
the amount daily based on a member firm’s positions. When a
trader owns two contracts that offset each other’s risk, less
margin is required. NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse
highlighted the ability to coordinate levels of collateral
across a larger pool of products as a benefit of their merger,
saying it would save customers $4 billion.  “If you combine clearinghouses you can economize on the
amount of margin without taking on greater levels of risk,”
Richard Perrott, an exchange analyst at Berenberg Bank in
London, said in a phone interview. “The sum of the two is
smaller than the two parts.”  ‘Vertical Silo’  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust commissioner, expressed
concern in March that Deutsche Boerse’s deal may monopolize the
derivatives market. He cited the company’s “vertical silo,”
which routes all trading on its futures platform through Eurex
Clearing, and said he favored a “more open business model.”
Liffe’s European trades are currently handled by LCH.Clearnet
Ltd. in London.  While exchanges seldom gain volume in a futures product
traded by a rival, users may prefer having different
clearinghouses to ensure that their owners don’t take advantage
of their dominance in the contracts, Perrott said. The Chicago
Board of Trade was already using the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange’s clearinghouse when the companies announced their
merger plans in 2006, he said.  Regulators evaluating NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse
must also consider the effect of the deal on broker-dealers and
investment firms, Belchambers said. Some are concerned the
combination “would have a more dominant position in execution,
clearing, post-trade services and market data,” he said.  ‘Catch-22’  Merging the companies would also reduce technology costs
for customers, Belchambers said. It would allow firms to support
a single platform and process fewer software updates. The
“Catch-22” for regulators, who earlier asked NYSE and Deutsche
Boerse to spin off Liffe or Eurex as a condition for approving
the deal, is that such remedies could shrink the deal’s benefits
to customers, he said.  “Going global requires size, resources and deep pockets,”
he said. “You can’t go global unless you are big.” The
question for regulators is, “Do we impair the ability of major
institutions to make global offerings or not?” he said.  High Barriers  The  Association for Financial Markets in Europe , a group of
lenders including  Switzerland ’s UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and
 France ’s BNP Paribas SA, said in February that its members “had
concerns about potential limits on competition in the
derivatives space,” where barriers to entry are high and
regulators have pushed for more central clearing. The group told
the competition commission in July that the power of the
combined company’s “near monopoly” should be curbed.  NYSE Euronext and  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  appealed directly to
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  on Jan. 13, arguing
that blocking it would “represent a serious missed opportunity
at a critical juncture for Europe,” according to a copy of the
letter seen by Bloomberg. The recommendation by Europe’s
competition panel is subject to a final vote by the full EU.  The  Justice Department  reached a different conclusion about
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange’s takeover of the Chicago Board
of Trade in 2007. It found no threat to competition in combining
the two largest U.S. futures market operators.  CME, CBOT  The antitrust unit  said  in June 2007 that the companies’
products weren’t “close substitutes” and neither exchange was
likely to offer products that rivaled those traded at the other
because of the difficulty in luring volume from an incumbent
futures venue. The regulator saw little risk of fewer new
products since the main drivers of innovation were winning
volume from over-the-counter markets and devising products those
users might adopt to hedge risks.  Craig Pirrong, a finance professor at the University of
Houston, said the EU competition commission is overestimating
the takeover’s impact on competition for exchange-traded
derivatives. The Liffe and Eurex products aren’t “close
substitutes for one another” and don’t compete, he said.
Regulators should allow the deal, he said.  Larger exchange companies that trade derivatives are moving
toward bigger clearinghouses, while regulators “want to move in
the other direction,” said Pirrong, who has written about
clearing and exchange competition since the mid-1990s.
Regulators should figure out how to prevent a clearinghouse from
exercising too much power over customers instead of blocking
deals that may benefit those users, he said.  Excessive market power at exchanges could potentially be
managed by relying on regulators to weed out anti-competitive
behavior alongside their market oversight role, Belchambers
said. The Financial Conduct Authority, one of the successor
organizations to the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority in
London, will include the task as part of its mandate to protect
investors, he said.  “This is a merger between entities that in the derivatives
space have monopolies on their existing products,” Pirrong
said. “From a competition perspective, it’s not likely to
dramatically increase their monopoly power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 