-- Obama Vows Fight to Restore Broad-Based Prosperity
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2012-01-25T00:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/obama-s-state-of-union-to-embrace-manufacturing-rebirth-for-job-creation.html
President  Barack Obama  vowed to
restore the promise of broad-based U.S. prosperity and “fight
obstruction with action” in dealing with Congress, as he runs
for re-election with the economy still struggling to recover
from the recession.  Obama’s State of the Union address tonight sets out both
his policy priorities and his campaign themes. In excerpts
released by the White House, he combines a call to rebuild the
 U.S. economy  on a stronger foundation with a promise to confront
critics who stand in the way.  “We can either settle for a country where a shrinking
number of people do really well, while a growing number of
Americans barely get by,” Obama will say, according to the
excerpts. “Or we can restore an economy where everyone gets a
fair shot, everyone does their fair share, and everyone plays by
the same set of rules.”  In the speech, scheduled to begin at 9 p.m. Washington time
before a joint session of Congress, the president will lay out
what he calls a “blueprint” for revitalizing the economy,
emphasizing a rebirth for U.S.  manufacturing , bolstering
domestic energy production and training workers. He also will
call for the wealthiest Americans to pay more taxes.  “What’s at stake are not Democratic values or Republican
values, but American values,” Obama will say.  Election Effect  Obama is unlikely to get major legislative initiatives
enacted before the November election, which will also decide
control of the House and the Senate. He also is constrained by
efforts to reduce the nation’s long-term  debt . Last year’s
deficit of $1.3 trillion was third-highest as a share of the
economy since 1945.  Obama said over the weekend that tonight’s address will
serve as a “bookend” to one he delivered Dec. 6 in Osawatomie,
 Kansas , that invoked the populism of President  Theodore
Roosevelt . Economic  inequality  has left millions of Americans
feeling that “the basic bargain that made this country great
has eroded,” he said.  As he did then, Obama tonight says renewing the promise of
the U.S. as a place where hard work is rewarded is “the
defining issue of our time.”  Buffett Rule  Obama will “lay out some specifics” on the so-called
Buffett rule -- named for billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  --
which would require people with incomes of more than $1 million
a year to pay at least the same percentage rate in taxes as
middle-class households, White House senior adviser  David Plouffe  said on NBC’s “Today” program. In a New York Times op-
ed essay in August, Buffett said that in 2010 he paid a lower
tax rate -- 17.4 percent -- than “any of the other 20 people in
our office.”  When Obama announced the proposal in September, he said
that “Warren Buffett’s secretary shouldn’t pay a higher tax
rate than Warren Buffett.” The secretary,  Debbie Bosanek , will
be a guest at the speech tonight.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, told
reporters today that he expects the speech will be a “rerun of
what we’ve heard over the last three years: more spending,
higher taxes and more regulation.”  Romney’s Returns  The administration today used the release of tax returns by
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  to underscore the
points Obama will make on taxes and fairness.  Romney’s returns showed he earned $21.6 million in 2010 and
paid 13.9 percent of that in income taxes, using the
preferential rate on investment income and charitable deductions
to pay a smaller share of his earnings than top wage earners
typically do.  Plouffe said that the preferential rate on investment
income, which is not available to typical wage-earners, was “a
good example of the  tax reform  we need.”  Obama and his wife, Michelle, reported $1.7 million in
adjusted gross income in 2010 and paid the top marginal  tax rate 
of 35 percent on most of their earnings, according to tax
returns released by the White House last year.  Romney delivered what his campaign called a “pre-buttal”
to Obama’s speech while campaigning today in  Florida .  Florida Campaigning  With a large sign behind him saying “Obama Isn’t
Working,” Romney kept his focus on the incumbent president as
he spoke in Tampa at what he said was a gypsum-manufacturing
plant that was closed in 2008 because of the economic downturn.  “Do we want a president who will try to explain again why
his policies haven’t worked?” Romney asked. “Do we want a
president who will keep promising that this time he will get it
right? Do we want a president who will keep telling us why he’s
right and why we’re all wrong? Or do we want the sense of
excitement that comes with a new leader?”  The Republican response to the State of the Union is being
delivered by Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels , who will say that
Democratic “extremism” has stifled domestic energy development
and private sector job growth. He also said the U.S. needs a
“dramatically simpler tax system” and fewer regulations.  “It’s not fair and it’s not true for the president to
attack Republicans in Congress as obstacles on these
questions,” Daniels says in excerpts released by Republican
congressional leaders.  To spur manufacturing jobs, Obama has promised to seek new
tax proposals that reward companies for bringing jobs home and
investing in America. He also pledged to end tax breaks for
companies that move jobs overseas. Details are likely to come in
the budget he’ll submit to Congress on Feb. 13.  Energy Production  Obama also will devote a section of his speech to U.S.
energy production. In a video to supporters over the weekend, he
said economic growth can be “fueled by homegrown and
alternative energy sources.”  Early in his administration Obama announced a target of
reducing oil imports by a third by 2025. Since he took office,
U.S. natural gas production averaged 1.89 trillion cubic feet a
month through October.  That’s 13 percent higher than the
average during President  George W. Bush ’s two terms, according
to Energy Department data. Crude oil production is 2 percent
higher, the department said.  Last March, he called for new incentives to boost
production of oil, natural gas and biofuels, tougher fuel-
efficiency standards for vehicles and greater reliance on
cleaner sources of energy, including nuclear power.  Signs of Rebound  In talking about the economy, Obama may point to signs of a
rebound.  The  unemployment rate  in December dropped to 8.5 percent, a
three-year low, and employers expanded payrolls by 200,000, an
indication that the job market is gaining momentum. Employers
added 853,000 jobs in the second half of 2011, compared with
782,000 in the first six months. Manufacturing output climbed
0.9 percent, the biggest gain since December 2010, according to
Federal Reserve data.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, rose at a 3 percent annual rate in the final three
months of 2011 after advancing 1.8 percent in the previous
quarter, according to the median forecast of 64 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Commerce Department’s Jan.
27 release.  Obama will leave tomorrow morning for a three-day trip to
Iowa,  Arizona (BEESAZ) ,  Nevada (STPINV) , Colorado and  Michigan (MBASMI) , all battlegrounds
in the election. He’ll use the stops to highlight the main
points of his address on manufacturing, energy and education.  Obama’s Guests  The administration has invited more than 20 guests to sit
with first lady  Michelle Obama  at the Capitol. The list includes
people representing topics Obama may touch on in his speech,
including a teacher, college student, a General Motors Co. plant
manager, and a veteran of the war in  Iraq .  Also among the guests is Admiral William McRaven, the
commander of U.S. special operations, which includes the Navy
SEALs who conducted the raid last May that killed  Osama bin Laden .  To counter the president, Boehner invited representatives
of businesses affected by Obama’s denial of a permit for
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline.  Obama’s campaign plans to use social media to spread the
messages in his speech. The president plans an online video chat
Jan. 30 on the White House page on  Google (GOOG)  Plus and the
 whitehouse.gov  website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  