-- Top Woman in Oil to Oversee $225 Billion Plan at Petrobras
-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-01-24T19:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/top-woman-in-oil-to-head-225-billion-plan-as-petrobras-chief.html
Maria das Gracas Foster, the first
woman named to run one of the world’s top five oil companies,
will take over the industry’s largest investment plan with
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ’s $225 billion proposal to more than
double its output by the end of the decade.  Petrobras, as the world’s fifth-largest oil producer by
market value is known, yesterday announced the decision to
promote Foster to chief executive officer after Jose Sergio
Gabrielli resigned to pursue a career in politics. A 34-year
veteran of the Rio de Janeiro-based company, Foster currently
runs the natural-gas and power division, Petrobras’s fastest
growing area last year.  Foster, 58, takes on the task of drilling for oil as deep
as 6 kilometers (3.7 miles) beneath the Atlantic Ocean’s seabed.
Petrobras missed its 2011 production target because of equipment
delays and more regulatory scrutiny after the 2010 U.S. Gulf of
Mexico oil spill. The stock  surged  to the highest in more than
eight months after the CEO change announcement yesterday and
extended gains today.  “The market seems relieved that Petrobras has not been
subject to political whims, but rather has chosen a career
employee with technical skill to be CEO,”  Christopher Palmer ,
who helps manage $2.5 billion of assets as London-based director
of global  emerging markets  for Henderson Global Investors Ltd.,
said in an e-mail yesterday. “This indicates that execution of
projects is now a top priority.”  Petrobras rose 1 percent to 25.40 reais at 5:47 p.m. in Sao
Paulo trading, after gaining 3.8 percent yesterday.  ‘Risen From Within’  A chemical engineer by training, Foster joined Petrobras as
an intern in 1978 and, except for a three-year stint working for
the government, has spent her entire career with the company.
She has held management positions in each of the company’s
divisions.  “She’s worked on the technical side, so she’s risen up
from within Petrobras,” said Bob Fryklund, a former director of
ConocoPhillip’s Brazil unit who worked with Foster on a project
to develop gas fields in the Amazon. “She worked in the
ministry, so she has good skills navigating government.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s nomination of Foster follows a
drive to increase female participation in her government.
Brazil’s first woman president, Rousseff has appointed at least
eight women to cabinet posts since she took office a year ago.  Working for Rousseff  Foster first met Rousseff when the president was energy
secretary for the state of  Rio Grande  do Sul. In 2003, Foster
went to work for her as head of Brazil’s oil and natural gas
division while Rousseff was its energy minister.  The Foster nomination will be voted on by Petrobras’s board
at a Feb. 9 meeting. A majority of the company’s board members
are named by the Brazilian government, which owns 51 percent of
the voting shares in Petrobras. The company said yesterday
Foster wasn’t available for an interview.  In a interview last year at her 23rd-floor office
overlooking Rio’s Guanabara Bay, Foster said she works seven
days a week from dawn until late night and expects all who work
for her to be as dedicated and disciplined. She is married and
has two adult children and a granddaughter.  “I like to joke that we have just one work day here at
Petrobras: it starts on Monday and ends on Saturday,” Foster
said last January. “Well, sometimes it ends on Sunday.”  Her work habits earned her the nickname Caveirao, the
Brazilian name for armored vehicles police use in Rio to plow
into crime-ridden shantytowns.  Early Childhood  Foster spent her early childhood in Morro do Adeus, a
working class neighborhood on the outskirts of Rio that is part
of Complexo do Alemao, which turned into a sprawling slum over
the past two decades because of drug trafficking. She collected
recyclable cans and paper to pay for school supplies, according
to Petrobras’s press office in Rio.  Foster will take over from Gabrielli, who has overseen
development of Petrobras’s Lula offshore oil discovery, the
biggest find in the Americas in more than three decades. He was
also in charge when the company raised $70 billion in the
world’s largest share sale in September 2010, helping finance
its production increases.  Gabrielli, 62, joined Petrobras in 2003 as chief financial
officer and was promoted to CEO in 2005. He leaves the position
to join the government in his home state of Bahia in
northeastern  Brazil , according to an e-mailed statement from the
governor’s press office yesterday.  Profit Growth  Under Foster, profit at Petrobras’s gas and power business
more than doubled in the first nine months of the year as she
sought to expand sales among industrial clients and fertilizer
producers who use gas.  One exception to Foster’s relentless work schedule is her
participation in the Uniao da Ilha samba school, which puts on
one of Rio’s annual Carnival parades.  “Petrobras and my samba school are my two passions,” said
Foster, who grew up in Rio. She also sports two small star
tattoos on her left wrist that she declined to explain the
meaning of when asked. “I have others that are not visible,”
she said.  -- With assistance from Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro .
Editors: Tina Davis, Charles Siler  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carlos Caminada at 
 Ccaminada1@bloomberg.net  