-- Hosken Says It Won’t Raise Offer for KWV, Will ‘Fix’ Business
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-01-24T11:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/hosken-says-it-won-t-raise-offer-for-kwv-will-fix-business.html
Hosken Consolidated Investments
Ltd. (HCI) , a South African  investment company  with stakes in
businesses from casinos to television, said it won’t increase
its offer for  KWV Holdings Ltd. (KWV) , the country’s second-largest
wine and spirits producer, even after a shareholder reportedly
rejected the bid.  HCI first acquired a stake in Paarl-based KWV in February
last year. On Dec. 21 it offered to buy full control after its
indirect stake exceeded 35 percent, triggering a mandatory offer
to shareholders, according to South African  securities law . HCI
said it will offer 8.50 rand a share in cash, or about 580
million rand ($73 million). A KWV shareholder, Withmore
Investments, said the offer is too low, according to Business
Report newspaper, citing Withmore’s chairman, Khutso Mampeule.  “We are absolutely not offering more for the business, we
are just complying with the regulations,” HCI’s Chief Executive
Officer Johnny Copelyn said in a telephone interview from  India 
today. “If shareholders don’t have confidence in HCI’s ability
to fix KWV then it would be silly for them to stay. I don’t
believe Withmore would hinder us from trying to fix the
business.”  Withmore holds more than 18 percent of KWV, according to
the wine company’s  website . KWV, which last  traded  over-the-
counter at 8.80 rand a share, made an adjusted operating loss of
53 million rand in its core business for the fiscal year to June
2011, compared with a 32 million-rand profit a year earlier. The
company’s shareholders have until March 2, a week after KWV’s
half-year results are released, to accept or reject HCI’s price.  Mampeule did not immediately return a message left on his
mobile phone.  KWV exports wine brands including Roodeberg and Cathedral
Cellar and is almost 100 years old.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  