-- Tottenham’s Redknapp Quizzed by Defunct Tabloid Amid Probe of U.K. Taxes
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-01-24T16:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/tottenham-s-redknapp-quizzed-by-defunct-tabloid-amid-probe-of-u-k-taxes.html
Tottenham Hotspur manager  Harry
Redknapp  denied dodging taxes when asked by News of the World
after the now-defunct tabloid learned of an investigation into
the soccer coach and Sheffield Wednesday owner Milan Mandaric,
according to transcripts read at the men’s  tax evasion  trial.  A sports reporter at the newspaper asked Redknapp about the
police investigation into alleged tax evasion over $295,000 paid
into a Monaco account named for Redknapp’s dog, Rosie, when he
worked at Portsmouth, then owned by Mandaric.  “There ain’t nothing crooked in it,” Redknapp said to
sports reporter Rob Beasley, according to a transcript
prosecutor John Black read to the London jury today. Redknapp
said he would sue the newspaper if it ran anything damaging,
according to the transcript.  Redknapp, 64, managed Portsmouth from 2002 to 2004 and
again from 2005 to 2008, leading the team to the F.A. Cup title
in his final season. He left for Tottenham in October 2008,
guiding the north  London  team to the  Champions League  in 2010,
and is a favorite to replace  England  national team coach Fabio
Capello when he steps down this year. Black called Redknapp a
talented manager and “hard-headed businessman with considerable
acumen” at the opening of the trial yesterday.  The court heard Beasley’s questions about the police
investigation without being told how the reporter obtained the
information nine months before the men were charged in January
2010.  News Corp . closed its News of the World tabloid closed
last year after reports its staff hacked telephones for stories.  Gift or Bonus  Redknapp and Mandaric gave Beasley different reasons for
why the offshore bank account was opened in 2002, Black said on
the trial’s second day. Mandaric told Beasley the payment was a
gift to his friend Redknapp unrelated to soccer, then later told
police it was a loan. Redknapp said to Beasley it was a bonus
for making a profit selling  Peter Crouch  to  Aston Villa  in 2002.
Redknapp told Beasley he didn’t know why Mandaric would say
otherwise, according to the transcript.  As Portsmouth’s director, Redknapp got 10 percent of
profits from the sale of players in 2001 and 5 percent when he
became manager a year later, Black said, citing bank and
contract records. He made about 115,500 pounds ($180,000) from
Crouch’s 4.5 million-pound sale to Aston Villa. Redknapp flew to
Monaco and opened the bank account at Mandaric’s suggestion,
according to transcripts of interviews with the police and the
tabloid. Redknapp said he felt he was owed more on the striker’s
sale because it was signed before his contract terms had
changed.  ‘I Don’t Fiddle’  Redknapp told the police, three months after Beasley asked
him, that he’d done nothing wrong and that Mandaric told him the
tax had been paid, according to the police transcript. He said
he opened it in  Monaco  because Mandaric said he could only
transfer the money there from his U.S.-based account.  “For the sake of that amount money I don’t fiddle, I don’t
fiddle anybody,” Redknapp said in his June 2009 interview with
the  City of London  Police. “I pay my taxes.”  Mandaric, 73, refused to comment to police when questioned
on June 8, 2009. About a month later his lawyer wrote to
Redknapp’s attorney saying, “Milan Mandaric requests $145,000
is repaid by Harry as soon as he’s able to repay it,” Black
said, reading out the letter.  The letter was “a transparent device” to make the money
in account appear to have ’’only ever been advanced by way of a
loan,’’ Black said. “Certainly Mr. Redknapp doesn’t seem
inclined to repay the loan.” Redknapp had arranged for the
$207,000 balance to be transferred to London when the account
was closed in 2008.  Redknapp wanted the extra 5 percent on Couch’s transfer
because it brought in a good fee even though Mandaric thought he
wasn’t a good player, according to the police file Redknapp
read.  ‘They Owed Me’  “I was adamant that they owed me the money because when I
signed Crouch Milan kept saying he’s useless,” Redknapp said.  Exchanges between Redknapp’s accountant, his HSBC Bank Plc
relationship manager, Mandaric and Portsmouth executives showed
Redknapp took 4 1/2 years to tell his accountant about the
account as he thought it was “dead,” and 6 years to report the
payment to the tax authorities, Black said to the jury.  “Had Mr. Redknapp really forgotten that he’d flown to
Monaco to set up his account?” Black said.  An inquiry by the Premier League into possible
irregularities in player trades uncovered the account in 2006.
Redknapp told those investigators Mandaric opened it for him.
During the account’s life, about $100,000 was transferred to a
bank in Miami.  “If there was anything funny about that I would have gone
over there and brought it back in a briefcase,” Redknapp told
Beasley, according to the transcript.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  