-- Louboutin Seeks to Overturn Ruling on Yves Saint Laurent’s Red-Soled Shoes
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-01-24T21:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/louboutin-seeks-to-overturn-ruling-on-yves-saint-laurent-s-red-soled-shoes.html
Louboutin SA has turned to an
appeals court to stop  Yves Saint Laurent  America from selling
red-soled shoes that it claims violates its trademark.  Louboutin is asking the panel to overturn U.S. District
Judge  Victor Marrero ’s decision in August rejecting the
company’s bid to prevent Yves Saint Laurent from selling shoes
Louboutin said were identical to its own. At a hearing following
that ruling, Marrero said he would defer deciding whether to
cancel Louboutin’s red-sole trademark until the appeals court
ruled on the injunction.  “We don’t claim shades of red,” Harley Lewin, a lawyer
for Louboutin, told the three appeals judges today in  Manhattan .
“We don’t claim anything but the mark as registered.”  The judges said they will rule later.  Yves Saint Laurent, the company named for the designer who
died in 2008, began selling shoes with red outsoles “long
before Mr. Louboutin began using them,”  David Bernstein , a
lawyer for the company, told Marrero at a hearing in July.
YSL is a unit of Paris-based  PPR (PP) , which owns other luxury brands
including Gucci.  “Our concern is, as a fashion house making monochromatic
shoes, we should be able to continue doing that,” Bernstein
said in court today. The monochromatic shoe is “the DNA of the
brand,” he said.  ‘Robust’ Competition  Marrero said in his August opinion that “because in the
fashion industry color serves ornamental and aesthetic functions
vital to robust competition, the court finds that Louboutin is
unlikely to be able to prove that its red outsole brand is
entitled to trademark protection.”  Louboutin, a Paris-based fashion company, said in a lawsuit
filed in April that Yves Saint Laurent’s red-sole footwear
“threaten to mislead the public.”  Christian Louboutin , the designer for whom the company is
named, got the idea for the red soles when he painted red nail
polish on the black soles of a pair of women’s shoes. Court
papers state that Louboutin’s red soles were introduced in 1992
and have been on all of its luxury shoes since then. They have
been popularized by actresses like Sarah Jessica Parker in the
TV show “Sex and the City.”  On the website of high-fashion department store  Barneys ,
Louboutin’s red-soled high-heel shoes are priced from $595 to
$4,645 a pair.  The  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office  awarded Louboutin a
trademark for the red sole in 2008, according to the lawsuit.  The case is Louboutin v. Yves Saint Laurent America, 11-
3303,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  