-- Louvre, Guggenheim Museums Revived in Abu Dhabi After State Reviews Cost
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-01-24T10:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/louvre-guggenheim-museums-revived-in-abu-dhabi-after-state-reviews-costs.html
Abu Dhabi , the oil-rich sheikhdom
that’s transforming itself into a business and cultural hub,
plans to resume suspended real-estate projects including
branches of the Louvre and Guggenheim museums after reviewing
their viability, the government said.  The largest and wealthiest of United Arab Emirates’ seven
sheikhdoms also approved new investments in housing, health and
education, according to a statement posted on the Executive
Council’s web site. No cost was given.  Abu Dhabi’s plans to revamp its economy ran into hurdles
after the economic crisis caused  home prices  to drop by 45
percent and made neighboring Dubai the region’s worst-performing
property market with a 65 percent price decline. At least $30
billion worth of projects were put on hold in Abu Dhabi while
the government conducted the review.  “This can only be a positive, namely for the contractors
that are established and active in Abu Dhabi,” said Mohammad Kamal, an Dubai-based analyst at Arqaam Capital. “It’s also a
macroeconomic driver for growth, employment, spending and bank
lending.”  Budgets and opening dates were approved for museum projects
in the cultural district of Sadiyat Island, including the Zayed
National Museum, and franchises of the Louvre and Guggenheim
branches. Other projects include the construction and redesign
of the Al Ain National Museum and the cultural Hilli site.  The Executive Council yesterday approved the building of
13,150 homes for U.A.E. citizens in North Al Wathba, it said.
Another 7,608 villas are expected to be completed this year and
delivered to the government, the statement said.  Schools, Airports  Other projects include 24 schools, 14 hospitals, six
treatment centers and Abu Dhabi’s  Cleveland Clinic . A 700,000
square-meter (7.5 million square-foot) extension of the airport
will be completed in the fourth quarter of 2016. The new
terminal will handle 27 million passengers a year, according to
the statement. Infrastructure spending will include metro and
tram systems, two major roads and industrial zones built to
focus on petrochemicals, food and auto manufacturing.  “Abu Dhabi is focusing on key sectors, where it has or can
create a comparative advantage, such as the presence of
significant energy resources and the absence of income taxes,”
said  Giyas Gokkent , group chief economist at National Bank of
Abu Dhabi PJSC. For auto manufacturing, the key will be
achieving scale and access to regional markets, since local
demand may be too small, he said.  Abu Dhabi’s location helps it serve travelers and shoppers
from larger neighboring markets such as  India ,  Iran  and  Saudi
Arabia . The resumption of hotels and museums construction would
eventually pay off, he said.  Abu Dhabi has been striving to reduce its dependency on oil
revenue by developing homes, hotels, offices and tourist
attractions through a combination of state-owned and publicly
traded companies that raised funds from investors, international
debt markets and buyers prepaying for homes. The sheikhdom and
the U.A.E. federal government took a growing share of the
financing for the projects after the credit crisis caused
lending in the region to dry up.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  