-- How Iran Could Trigger Accidental Armageddon: Jeffrey Goldberg
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-01-24T00:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/how-iran-may-trigger-accidental-armageddon-commentary-by-jeffrey-goldberg.html
One of the arguments often made in
favor of bombing Iran to cripple its nuclear program is this:
The mullahs in Tehran are madmen who believe it is their
consecrated duty to destroy the perfidious Zionist entity (which
is to say,  Israel ) and so are building nuclear weapons to launch
at  Tel Aviv  at the first favorable moment.  It’s beyond a doubt that the Iranian regime would like to
bring about the destruction of Israel. However, the mullahs are
also cynics and men determined, more than anything, to maintain
their hold on absolute power.  Which is why it’s unlikely that they would immediately use
their new weapons against Israel. An outright attack on Israel -
- a country possessing as many as 200 nuclear weapons and
sophisticated delivery systems -- would lead to the obliteration
of Tehran, the deaths of millions, and the destruction of Iran’s
military and industrial capabilities.  The mullahs know this. But here’s the problem: It may not
matter. The threat of a deliberate nuclear attack pales in
comparison with the chance that a nuclear-armed  Iran  could
accidentally trigger a cataclysmic exchange with Israel.  Warp-Speed Escalation  The experts who study this depressing issue seem to agree
that a  Middle East  in which Iran has four or five nuclear
weapons would be dangerously unstable and prone to warp-speed
escalation.  Here’s one possible scenario for the not-so-distant future:
Hezbollah, Iran’s Lebanese proxy, launches a cross-border attack
into Israel, or kills a sizable number of Israeli civilians with
conventional rockets. Israel responds by invading southern
Lebanon, and promises, as it has in the past, to destroy
Hezbollah. Iran, coming to the defense of its proxy, warns
Israel to cease hostilities, and leaves open the question of
what it will do if Israel refuses to heed its demand.  Dennis Ross , who until recently served as President Barack Obama’s Iran point man on the National Security Council, notes
Hezbollah’s political importance to Tehran. “The only place to
which the Iranian government successfully exported the
revolution is to Hezbollah in Lebanon,” Ross told me. “If it
looks as if the Israelis are going to destroy Hezbollah, you can
see Iran threatening Israel, and they begin to change the
readiness of their forces. This could set in motion a chain of
events that would be like ‘Guns of August’ on steroids.”  Imagine that Israel detects a mobilization of Iran’s rocket
force or the sudden movement of mobile missile launchers. Does
Israel assume the Iranians are bluffing, or that they are not?
And would Israel have time to figure this out? Or imagine the
opposite: Might Iran, which will have no second-strike
capability for many years -- that is, no reserve of nuclear
weapons to respond with in an exchange -- feel compelled to
attack Israel first, knowing that it has no second chance?  Bruce Blair, the co-founder of the nuclear disarmament
group  Global Zero  and an expert on nuclear strategy, told me
that in a sudden crisis Iran and Israel might each abandon
traditional peacetime safeguards, making an accidental exchange
more likely.  “A confrontation that brings the two nuclear-armed states
to a boiling point would likely lead them to raise the launch-
readiness of their forces -- mating warheads to delivery
vehicles and preparing to fire on short notice,” he said.
“Missiles put on hair-trigger alert also obviously increase the
danger of their launch and release on false warning of attack --
false indications that the other side has initiated an attack.”  Then comes the problem of misinterpreted data, Blair said.
“Intelligence failures in the midst of a nuclear crisis could
readily lead to a false impression that the other side has
decided to attack, and induce the other side to launch a
preemptive strike.”  ‘Cognitive Bias’  Blair notes that in a crisis it isn’t irrational to expect
an attack, and this expectation makes it more likely that a
leader will read the worst into incomplete intelligence. “This
predisposition is a cognitive bias that increases the danger
that one side will jump the gun on the basis of incorrect
information,” he said.  Ross told me that Iran’s relative proximity to Israel and
the total absence of ties between the two countries -- the
thought of Iran agreeing to maintain a hot line with a country
whose existence it doesn’t recognize is far-fetched -- make the
situation even more hazardous. “This is not the  Cold War ,” he
said. “In this situation we don’t have any communications
channels. Iran and Israel have zero communications. And even in
the Cold War we nearly had a nuclear war. We were much closer
than we realized.”  The answer to this predicament is to deny Iran nuclear
weapons, but not through an attack on its nuclear facilities, at
least not now. “The liabilities of preemptive attack on  Iran’s
nuclear program  vastly outweigh the benefits,” Blair said. “But
certainly Iran’s program must be stopped before it reaches
fruition with a nuclear weapons delivery capability.”  Ross argues that the Obama administration’s approach -- the
imposition of steadily more debilitating sanctions -- may yet
work. There’s a chance, albeit slim, that he may be right: New
sanctions are just beginning to bite and, combined with an
intensified cyberwar and sabotage efforts, they might prove
costly enough to deter Tehran.  But opponents of military action make a mistake in arguing
that a nuclear Iran is a containable problem. It is not.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 