-- Pasties, Venture Capitalists Chart Broadway in ‘TED’ Conference
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/pasties-hip-hop-venture-capital-map-broadway-future-in-ted-conference.html
Producers, consultants and
entrepreneurs gathered yesterday in  Manhattan ’s Theater
District to fantasize about Broadway 20 years from now in
what was billed as the first annual “TEDxBroadway.”  Some things, however, kept them focused on the here
and now. Anna Wilson, for example, an actress sitting down
front wearing almost nothing above the waist except a pair
of strategically placed pink butterfly pasties and a pink
flower necklace.  Provocative, pie-in-the-sky and occasionally silly,
TEDxBroadway takes its name from the 27-year-old “ TED ”
conference, which brings together people in the technology,
entertainment and design industries, among others. The
Broadway version was organized by three tech-savvy youngish
Turks: Damian Bazadona, founder of the advertising and
marketing firm  Situation Interactive ; Ken Davenport, a
producer and entrepreneur; and  Jim McCarthy , head of
 Goldstar , a marketing firm offering discounted tickets to
arts and entertainment nationwide.  Wilson and Rachel Benbow Murdy, in drag with a
mustache and fur coat, wore their costumes from “The
Donkey Show,” a raunchy off-Broadway musical that updated
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream.” They cheered loudly as Randy
Weiner, a “Donkey Show” co-creator, gave a talk about
integrating nightlife and theater.  Landlord Power  About 250 people attended the event at New World
Stages, paying $100 each. They included one of Broadway’s
most out-and-about theater owners and producers, Jordan
Roth, president of Jujamcyn Theatres.  Davenport said TEDxBroadway wasn’t a typical industry
confab.  “It’s like a business focus group,” he said.
“Broadway tends to be 10 years behind every industry.”  Actor and two-time Tony Award host Neil Patrick Harris
appeared in several brief video bits, delivering off-the-
cuff prescriptions for Broadway’s woes. “I think every
show should star  Hugh Jackman ,” he said. “Look at his
track record.”  He also suggested placing drink holders at every seat
“I find the more I drink, the more I enjoy the show,”
Harris deadpanned. “I like Tom Stoppard’s ‘Coast of
Utopia’ plays, but I love ‘Rock of Ages.’” (The latter
show was one of the first to sell alcoholic beverages in
the aisles.)  Social Media  In a more serious vein, several speakers lauded social
media as a way for shows to sell themselves without
expensive advertising.  Steven Gullans, a managing director with Excel Venture
Management, a Boston venture-capital firm, said
theatergoers down the road may choose shows based on
information from “smart,” specialized social networks.
They may hook themselves up to sensors that would monitor
their reaction to shows, with networks sharing those
reactions with other theatergoers.  Matt Sax, an actor, writer and hip-hop performer, did
a charming rap suggesting, among other things, that
producers use the Internet to gauge interest in their
shows.  “Let’s get the public’s opinion before we drop a
million dollars,” he said.  Where else will Broadway find tomorrow’s audiences?
Vincent Gassetto, principal of the Academy of Applied
Mathematics and Technology, suggested  New York ’s 1.1
million public-school students. He described taking his
entire middle school in the South Bronx to a performance of
“Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark.” It was the first
Broadway show for most of the kids. They treasured the
experience, he said, as did he.  “That day was definitely the highlight of my 20-year
career,” he said.  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 