-- Paterno to Be Remembered With Public Viewings, Memorial at Penn State
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-24T18:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/paterno-to-be-remembered-with-public-viewings-memorial-at-penn-state.html
Joe Paterno ’s family scheduled two
public viewings and a memorial this week on the  Pennsylvania 
State University campus, where thousands of people are expected
to pay tribute to the record-setting football coach who died of
 lung cancer  at the age of 85.  A  public viewing  will be held today from 1 p.m. to 11 p.m.
local time and tomorrow from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. at Penn State’s
Pasquerilla Spiritual Center in  State College , Pennsylvania.  The family will conduct a private funeral service tomorrow
and a public memorial at 2 p.m. on Jan. 26 in the Bryce Jordan
Center, the home of Penn State’s basketball team. The university
made 10,000 tickets available for the public, and they were
distributed in seven minutes, said spokeswoman Annemarie Mounts.  Paterno, who won 409 games and two national championships
in 46 years as  Penn State ’s coach, died two days ago at Mount
Nittany Medical Center. He was diagnosed with lung cancer in
November, a few days after being fired by school officials
because of his handling of a child-sex abuse scandal involving
former assistant Jerry Sandusky, who was charged with assaulting
boys in Penn State’s athletic complex.  Few Trustees  Linda Strumpf, a member of Penn State’s Board of Trustees,
told the  Associated Press  that she doesn’t think the memorial
will be “heavily laden with administration and trustees.”
There are many Penn State alumni and students, including
quarterback Matt McGloin, who said Paterno was treated unfairly
with his firing via a late-night phone call.  “It was wrong to do it the way they did it, sending over a
piece of paper and have him call a number, having him get fired,
not bringing him in, sitting him down and giving him the reasons
why he was let go,” McGloin, who will be among the current and
former players serving as honorary guards at the Pasquerilla
Spiritual Center,  told ESPN .  Paterno, known as “JoePa,” set a record for major college
wins at Penn State while emphasizing academics as much as
winning football games. He coached dozens of All-Americans, was
voted Coach of the Year by his colleagues a record four times,
and donated more than $4 million to the university over the
years to endow faculty positions and scholarships and to build
an interfaith spiritual center and a sports museum.  ‘Success With Honor’  “His accomplishments both on and off the field will never
be matched,” said Tennessee Titans coach Mike Munchak, who
played for Paterno. “What he was most proud of, though, was not
what we accomplished, but how we accomplished it; ‘Success with
honor’ was his phrase for it. The things I learned at Penn State
are still with me today and they have made me a better person
and a better coach.”  President  Barack Obama  offered his condolences during a
telephone call yesterday with Paterno’s wife, Sue, and son Jay,
according to an e-mailed statement from the White House.  Paterno and his wife had five children -- sons David,
George Scott and Jay, who was an assistant football coach at
Penn State for 17 seasons, and daughters Diana Giegerich and
Mary Kathryn Hort -- and 17 grandchildren.  “He fought hard until the end, stayed positive, thought
only of others and constantly reminded everyone of how blessed
his life had been,” Paterno’s family said in a statement. “His
ambitions were far reaching, but he never believed he had to
leave this Happy Valley to achieve them. He was a man devoted to
his family, his university, his players and his community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  