-- Venezuela Drills New Orinoco Oil Wells to Boost Production
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-01-25T00:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/pdvsa-russian-partners-begin-drilling-at-junin-6-ramirez-says.html
Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the state
oil company, and a group of Russian companies started drilling
the first oil well on the Junin 6 block today in the Orinoco
crude belt, Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said.  PDVSA, as the Caracas-based company is called, operates the
block in a venture with Consorcio Nacional Ruso SRL and will
reach production of 20,000 barrels of oil a day by December
after starting early production in June, Ramirez told reporters
in Anzoategui state.  “The plan that we presented to increase current production
of about 3 million barrels a day to 3.5 million barrels a day is
based on 470,000 barrels a day of new output from the Orinoco
belt and 88,000 barrels a day that will come from the West of
the country,” said Ramirez.  PDVSA also started drilling today at the Junin 10 field in
the Orinoco belt, which it operates without any minority
partners, and expects to see early production in June with
output rising to 20,000 barrels a day by December, said Ramirez.
Petromacareo, a joint venture between PDVSA and Petrovietnam,
will start early production at the Junin 2 block in July, with
output increasing to 20,000 barrels a day by December, according
to the minister.  Petrocarabobo, a joint venture formed between PDVSA,  Repsol
YPF SA (REP) ,  Oil & Natural Gas  Corp., Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,  Indian
Oil Corp. (IOCL)  and  Oil India Ltd. (OINL) , will start production at the
Carabobo 1 block in August and reach output of 35,000 barrels a
day in December, said Ramirez.  The Consorcio Nacional Ruso is a venture with  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ,
Surgutneftegas, OAO  Lukoil (LKOH) ,  TNK-BP (BP/)  and  Rosneft Oil Co. (ROSN)   OPEC listed  Venezuela ’s production at 2.37 million barrels
a day in December, according to the oil cartel’s January  Oil
Market Report.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  