-- Petroplus Prepares to File for Insolvency After Talks Fail: Zurich Mover
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2012-01-24T17:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/petroplus-prepares-to-file-for-insolvency-after-talks-with-creditors-fail.html
Petroplus Holdings AG (PPHN) , the largest
independent European refiner, said it plans to file for
insolvency. The stock  plunged  84 percent.  The Zug, Switzerland-based company said in a statement
today that it will seek to ensure that operations are “safely
shut down and to preserve value for all stakeholders.”  The announcement marks a further decline in  Europe ’s
refining industry after BP Plc and Royal Dutch Shell Plc cut
capacity as margins thinned and fuel demand stopped growing.
Petroplus had about $1 billion in credit lines frozen last
month, preventing it from supplying plants with crude. It said
last week it may sell three of its five European plants.  “With the bankruptcy, the worst scenario for the company
came true,” Martin Schreiber, an analyst at Zuercher
Kantonalbank, wrote in a note to investors. “How much
shareholders will be entitled to from the bankruptcy can barely
be estimated due to the opaque situation of Petroplus.”  BP and Shell, Europe’s biggest oil companies, said the
supply of fuels to their services stations hasn’t been
disrupted. BP sold the Coryton refinery in the U.K. to Petroplus
in 2007, and Shell sold Petroplus the Petit Couronne plant in
 France  a year later. Essar Energy Plc said its Stanlow refinery
in the U.K. would look to “fill gaps in the market” caused by
Coryton’s closure.  Sell Refineries  Petroplus said last week that it might sell refineries in
France, Belgium and Switzerland, while continuing to operate the
plants in the U.K. and  Germany . As well as trying to renegotiate
financing with its banks, Petroplus had also been seeking a
crude supply deal on terms that would reduce the cash needed to
keep refineries going.  “We have worked hard to avoid this outcome, but were
ultimately not able to come to an agreement with our lenders to
resolve these issues given the very tight and difficult European
credit and refining markets,” Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Vettier said in the statement.  Petroplus slid 1.23 francs to 24 centimes at the close in
Zurich. The company’s shares were suspended from trading in
 Switzerland  yesterday. The stock has lost 98 percent of its
value in the past year. Petroplus’s market value is now 23
million francs ($25 million).  Default Event  Petroplus’s lenders yesterday sent a notice of acceleration
to the company, demanding immediate repayment of its $1.1
billion revolving credit facility. The acceleration also
“constitutes an event of default” on $1.75 billion of
outstanding senior and convertible bonds, the company said in
today’s statement.  The credit line was frozen Dec. 27 after Petroplus breached
covenants in September when earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization fell below the required 2.5 times
net interest expense. Banks had earlier waived some loan terms
until the end of the first quarter of 2012 to give the company
time to renegotiate the loan and secure crude supply.  BNP Paribas  BNP Paribas SA, Commerzbank AG, Credit Suisse Group AG, ING
Groep NV, Fortis Bank Nederland and Natixis SA arranged the
 credit line  in 2009, which paid interest of 300 basis points
more than the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The refiner had halted deliveries from its U.K. plant after
lenders forced it to stop selling fuel, Richard Howitt, a
European Parliament member for the east of  England , said in a
statement yesterday.  Earlier this month, the company reached a temporary
agreement with creditors to keep plants in Coryton, and
Ingolstadt, Germany, in operation. Petroplus’s credit rating was
cut by  Standard & Poor’s  for a second time on Jan. 17.  The outlook for oil refining in the next two decades is
“dire” given excess capacity in the industry, BP’s Chief
Economist  Christof Ruehl  said on Jan. 18. Other refineries in
Europe have been forced to close because overcapacity is making
it unprofitable to turn crude oil into gasoline and other fuels.  LyondellBasell Industries NV decided to close its 105,000
barrel-a-day Berre refinery in France after failing to find a
buyer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy 
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  