-- Petroplus French Refinery May Attract Buyer as Union Holds Fuel
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-01-24T16:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/petroplus-french-refinery-may-attract-buyer-as-union-holds-fuel.html
Petroplus Holdings AG (PPHN) ’s refinery at
Petit Couronne in Normandy has received several “technical
visits” by parties that may be interested in taking over the
plant, according to a French union.  “There are signs that there could be interest,” Yvon
Scornet, a representative of the CGT labor union, told reporters
in Paris today before a meeting with French Industry Minister
Eric Besson. Workers at the plant are blocking about 200 million
euros ($260 million) worth of refined products as a
“guarantee” that they will be paid, he said.  Petroplus, Europe’s largest independent refiner, said
earlier today it will file for insolvency after talks with
lenders failed. Three of its five European refineries, including
Petit Couronne, were already shut and two others, in England and
 Germany , were operating at reduced capacity.  Petit Couronne supplied oil products for the French market
to Royal Dutch Shell Plc, which sold Petroplus the plant in
2008, Scornet said. The refined products stored at the site are
the union’s only bargaining chip to ensure workers get paid in
the coming months, he said, adding that employees would welcome
investors from countries such as Azerbaijan, Brazil and Qatar
which have hydrocarbon wealth and little or no crude-processing
capacity.  About 550 jobs at Petit Couronne are at risk at a
politically-sensitive time ahead of the April, May two-round
presidential elections in  France . The halt is the fourth
suspension in two years and reflects  Europe ’s declining refining
profits. The French site has lost money for the past three
years, union workers have said.  European refining capacity could drop by 15 percent to 30
percent through 2030, France’s IFP Energies Nouvelles energy
research institute said in a report published today. If Petit
Couronne is permanently shut, France will have eight working
refineries, down from 24 in 1977.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  