-- Pfizer’s Lipitor Plan Might Not Be ‘Worth It,’ Watson CEO Says
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-01-24T21:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/pfizer-s-lipitor-plan-against-copies-may-not-be-worth-it-watson-ceo-says.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s strategy to keep its
market share of cholesterol pill Lipitor may boost revenue
without aiding profit, said the chief executive officer of
 Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , the drugmaker’s partner on the
medicine’s generic version.  Pfizer’s plan to hold off generic competition may be
failing, said  Paul Bisaro , Watson’s CEO. Pfizer, the world’s
largest drugmaker, gave Parsippany, New Jersey-based Watson the
right to sell an “authorized” copy of Lipitor for a share of
the revenue generated by the generic drug.  “They’re starting to lose market share,” Bisaro said
today at a company meeting with analysts. “It appeared they
were trying to protect revenue and not profit,” he said.  Lipitor (PHAM1150) , with $10.7 billion in sales in 2010, began facing
generic versions made by Watson and Punjab, India-based  Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  last month in the U.S. after the medicine’s
patent protection expired. New York-based Pfizer reached
agreements with insurers such as UnitedHealth Group Inc. and
Coventry Health Care Inc. to block sales of the copycat pills in
return for rebates or price cuts on Lipitor.  “We couldn’t ever make it work that the discounts they
were doing to get market share were better than what they’d get
if they just allowed their authorized partner sell the
product,” Bisaro said. “People have to decide, on a brand
perspective, whether it was actually worth it.”  Market Numbers  Pfizer’s market share has dropped to 32 percent in the
seventh week of competition from 41 percent in the second week,
according to data from IMS Health analyzed by  Jami Rubin , an
analyst with Goldman Sachs in  New York . “PFE’s share may be
starting to slip,” Rubin said in a note.  Watson fell 2.3 percent to $55.89 at 4 p.m. New York time.
Pfizer declined less than 1 percent to $21.66.  Pfizer’s strategy “is designed to increase patient choice
and improve patient adherence by offering Lipitor patients more
support than they would receive from a company selling generic
atorvastatin,” said Mackay Jimeson, a spokesman for Pfizer, in
an e-mail.  Watson plans to spend on acquisitions to diversify into
brand-name drugs, rather than share buybacks or a dividend,
Bisaro said today.  “Over time our investor base will appreciate the assets we
have in our portfolio,” Bisaro said.  On Jan. 20, Watson failed to win the support of a panel
advising the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on the company’s
pre-term birth gel. The FDA is scheduled to decide whether to
approve the drug by Feb. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  