-- Portugal’s BES Doubles Share of Profits From Brazil Amid European Crisis
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-01-24T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/portugal-s-bes-doubles-share-of-profits-from-brazil-amid-european-crisis.html
Banco  Espirito Santo  SA, Portugal’s
biggest bank by market value, said profit from Brazil doubled as
a percent of the total for the first nine months of last year,
helping to ease the decline in earnings from  Europe  caused by
the region’s debt crisis.  Brazil contributed more than 13 percent of Banco Espirito
Santo’s 137.8 million euros ($179.5 million) in  profit  through
the third quarter of last year, Ricardo Espirito Santo,
president of Banco Espirito Santo Investimento do Brasil SA,
said in an interview in Sao Paulo. Brazil’s profits were 6.3
percent of the total as of Dec. 31, 2010, he said.  Most of the Brazilian earnings came from merger-and-
acquisition advisory work, project finance, local capital-
markets business and proprietary trading, Espirito Santo said.
The bank advised drugstore chain Drogarias Pacheco SA in its
acquisition last year of Drogaria Sao Paulo SA and helped Bunge
Ltd. in the purchase of three tomato-product brands from
Hypermarcas SA in December.  “Brazil has been a very positive bet for us,” said
Espirito Santo, who is a member of Banco Espirito Santo’s
controlling shareholder family in  Portugal  and the grandson of
the Lisbon-based bank’s founder, Jose Maria do Espirito Santo e
Silva. “The bank’s results in Portugal were not brilliant, and
here in Brazil we managed to maintain our profits in 2011 at
about the same level they were the year before.”  Bad Loans  Banco Espirito Santo’s global profits dropped 66 percent in
the first nine months of 2011 compared with the same period of
2010 as provisions for bad loans increased 88 percent. In
Brazil, profits were 71 million reais ($40.5 million) in 2010,
Espirito Santo said, adding that full-year 2011 results, which
haven’t yet been announced, would be about the same.  The company plans to continue investing in wealth
management and commodities futures in Brazil, according to
Espirito Santo.  “With only two years of activity, our asset-management
business here already has 1 billion reais under management,” he
said. The plan is to hire 20 people, an increase of about 10
percent, after no boost in the workforce in 2011.  Capital markets  are also a priority, he said. Last year,
Banco Espirito Santo brought Miguel Guiomar, the Portuguese
managing director responsible for international capital markets,
to Brazil after the departure of Marcio Pepino, the former
capital-markets director.  “Miguel is still responsible for the rest of the world’s
capital-markets area, but he stays here because Brazil is where
the activity is,” Espirito Santo said.  ‘Drop’ in Ocean  Still, Brazil can’t solve all of the company’s problems,
Espirito Santo said, because earnings represent a “drop in the
ocean” for a bank with 5 billion euros in equity.  “I help Portugal, I generate dividends, but our activity
here needs capital,” he said. “If we had the availability, we
would put more capital in  Brazil .” Banco Espirito Santo de
Investimento has capital of 508 million reais, an increase from
about 468 million reais in 2010.  Banco Espirito Santo sold international loans, including
for Brazilian companies, and also sold its stake in Brazil’s
Banco Bradesco SA last year for about $1 billion to raise funds.
Portugal’s financial crisis has made access to wholesale funding
more difficult for banks based in the country. Portugal sought a
bailout from the European Union in April.  “We have sold 3 billion euros in credit assets for the
deleveraging we need, and we even sold some loans from Brazilian
companies that were on our books, but without losing money,”
Espirito Santo said. “We made that before this crisis and
before the French banks had to do the same thing,” he said.  Bradesco Shares  Banco Espirito Santo kept a little more than 1 percent of
Bradesco voting shares and Ricardo Espirito Santo is still a
member of the board of the Brazilian bank, he said.  “We had to sell Bradesco shares because in more difficult
situations you have to give up the rings to not lose the
fingers,” he said.  The bank still has a partnership with Bradesco in Brazil in
a private-equity fund, called 2bCapital, he said. Bradesco has a
50 percent stake in Europ Assistance in Brazil, in which Banco
Espirito Santo has a 24 percent stake. Bradesco has 20 percent
of Banco Espirito Santo Investimento do Brasil and a 5 percent
stake in  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) , according to Espirito Santo.  The bank’s strategy will be to advise buyers of assets the
 Portuguese government  is selling to meet its fiscal goals, and
to keep expanding abroad, including opening a branch of the
commercial bank in Caracas and a unit of the investment bank in
 Hong Kong , he said.  Three Gorges  Banco Espirito Santo advised China Three Gorges Corp. in
the buying of a 2.7 billion euro stake in Energias de Portugal
SA, and last year got a $300 million loan from  China Development
Bank .  “In the past nobody would care for a $300 million loan,”
Espirito Santo said. “But now, the way the world is, to get this
money for three years without guarantees, for sure it is
relevant to us.”  Banco Espirito Santo said earlier this month that it sold 1
billion euros of three-year debt guaranteed by the Portuguese
state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  