-- Jorge Posada Retires as Yankees Veteran Content With Five-Ring Title Run
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-01-24T18:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/posada-retires-from-mlb-after-career-spent-entirely-with-new-york-yankees.html
Jorge Posada  bid farewell to  Major
League Baseball  and the only franchise he ever knew, ending a
two-decade career for the  New York Yankees  that included five
World Series championships.  Posada, 40, announced his retirement from baseball today,
saying he didn’t have the desire to train for an 18th major-
league season, one that may have left him wearing something
other than Yankee pinstripes.  “I could never wear another uniform,” Posada said at a
televised Yankee Stadium news conference. “Being a part of
seven World Series and having five rings was something I’d never
imagined. It was just priceless.”  Posada, a Puerto Rico native, leaves the game with a .273
career batting average, 275 home runs and 1,065 runs batted in.
He played eight games in 1996, when the Yankees won their first
 World Series  in 18 years. Along with shortstop  Derek Jeter ,
starting pitcher  Andy Pettitte  and reliever  Mariano Rivera , the
Yankees also won World Series titles in 1998 through 2000 and
2009.  “He cared about winning, that’s the biggest thing,” Jeter
said today in a televised interview. “He didn’t care about
personal accolades.”  Pettitte left New York for three seasons in Houston from
2004 to 2006 before returning. Posada, Jeter and Rivera became
the first trio of players in U.S. major sports league history to
play at least one game together in 17 straight seasons,
according to the Elias Sports Bureau.  Posada was drafted in 1991 to become a second baseman and
was converted to catcher that summer.  ‘Not Pretty’  “I thought it was the worst decision ever,” he said,
discussing his early mistakes behind the plate. “It was not a
pretty sight.”  He made his first big-league appearance in 1995 and went on
to become a five-time All-Star. Posada caught 1,574 games, third
on the Yankees’ all-time list behind Hall of Fame members Bill
Dickey (1,708) and  Yogi Berra  (1,695). Last season he became the
first major leaguer since Johnny Bench in 1983 to catch at least
one game with the same club in 17 consecutive seasons.  Posada ranks seventh in franchise history in doubles with
379, eighth in games with 1,829 and home runs, and 11th in RBI.
He also caught  David Wells ’ perfect game in 1998, at the time
the 15th in major-league history.  “That day was magical,” he said today, reflecting on his
favorite moments.  Last season Posada batted .234 with 14 homers and 44 RBI,
improving after a sub-par first two months. Having been moved to
the designated hitter position for the 2011 campaign, he was
batting .165 on May 15 when he asked to be scratched from a game
against the  Boston Red Sox  after being dropped to the ninth spot
in the batting order.  Belated Apologies  Posada at first told reporters that minor stiffness in his
back led him to the decision. He later apologized, saying, “I
just had a bad day.” He received a standing ovation from the
 New York  fans the next time he stepped to the plate.  Posada said he told his agents not to consider offers from
other major-league clubs to extend his career.  “It wasn’t in me,” he said. “I knew in my heart and I
knew in my head that I really didn’t want to play anymore.”  Posada said he has no future business plans.  “I want to spend time with the family,” he said. “I
haven’t had a summer with them.”  Posada becomes eligible for election to the National
Baseball Hall of Fame in five years. He wouldn’t speculate on
his chances.  “When you compare me to people in the Hall of Fame --we’ll
see,” he said. “I’m really excited to see what’s going to
happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 