-- Q-Cells Plunges to Record Low Amid Financing Struggle: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-24T18:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/q-cells-drops-to-record-amid-financing-struggle-frankfurt-mover.html
Q-Cells SE (QCE) , once the world’s largest
maker of solar cells, fell to the lowest on record after a
regional court said it can’t defer payment of a 202 million-euro
($263 million) corporate bond due next month.  Q-Cells fell 18 percent to 41 euro cents at the close in
 Frankfurt , the lowest since it started trading in 2005. The
company, based in Thalheim,  Germany , said holders of the 2012
bonds will receive partial payments in tranches as it seeks to
restructure convertible bonds due in 2014 and 2015 in a debt-to-
equity swap. It forecast operating losses through 2013.  Q-Cells is in “intensive talks” with creditors to
organize partial repayment of the bond by the end of February,
Chief Executive Officer Nedim Cen said on a conference call.
“We are on a good path and there are concrete suggestions for
solutions on the table.” An insolvency “is not up for
discussion at the moment,” he said.  Germany’s solar manufacturers are under pressure from
Chinese rivals that have boosted capacity even as international
prices slumped. Berlin-based module maker  Solon SE (SOO1)  and  Solar
Millennium AG (S2M) , with headquarters in Erlangen, filed for
insolvency last month.  “Q-Cells has a good chance of striking an agreement with
the holders of the 2012 bond as the creditors would have a much
more difficult time getting their money back in case of an
insolvency,” Katharina Cholewa, an analyst at WestLB, said by
phone from Dusseldorf today.  Forecast Loss  The 1.375 percent 2012 convertible notes were quoted at
49.5 percent of face value today, up from 48.5 percent
yesterday, according to Stuttgart Exchange prices on Bloomberg.  Q-Cells forecast a loss of earnings before interest and
taxes before restructuring costs of 90 million euros in 2012. It
expects Ebit of 8 million euros in 2014. In the call, Cen said
he didn’t want to make a prediction when Q-Cells would return to
profit.  “The outlook for 2012 is a catastrophe and way below
expectations,” Sven Olaf Kuerten, an analyst at  DZ Bank  in
Frankfurt who rates Q-Cells “sell,” said in a note.  Q-Cells plans to invite shareholders to an extraordinary
general meeting in coming days after it had to write down assets
that resulted in losses of more than half of equity at the end
of last year. The writedowns won’t directly affect liquidity,
the company said.  Q-Cells had cash of 304 million euros at the end of the
last financial year, Ina von Spies, a company spokeswoman, said
by phone today.  Prices for solar modules dropped by about 50 percent last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, hurting
manufacturers that were locked in long-term take-or-pay supply
contracts. Take-or-pay contracts require buyers to take a
product from a supplier or pay a penalty.  While Cen said he expects weaker prices in the solar
industry to continue this year, the reductions will also “open
entirely new markets” and offer chances for growth in the mid-
term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  