-- Quest Diagnostics Increases on Plan for $1 Billion Buyback: New York Mover
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-01-24T21:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/quest-diagnostics-shares-increase-on-1-billion-share-repurchase-program.html
Quest Diagnostics Inc (DGX) ., the biggest
U.S. operator of medical labs, gained the most in three months
after fourth-quarter earnings topped estimates and the board
approved $1 billion to buy back stock.  Quest rose 7.5 percent to $60.73 at the close in  New York 
for the biggest single-day increase since Oct. 25. Shares of the
Madison, New Jersey-based company have increased 12 percent in
the past 12 months.  Fourth-quarter profit excluding some items was $1.23 a
share as revenue from clinical testing increased, the company
said today in a statement. The earnings topped the $1.06 average
 estimate  of 24 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, helped by revenue
gained in purchases last year of Athena Diagnostics Inc. and
Celera Corp., Quest said.  “Shares will trade higher this morning due to fourth-
quarter earnings upside and the $1 billion repurchase news,”
Kevin Ellich, an analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co., wrote in a
research note today. “Organic revenue growth still appears to
be sluggish, which is a reason we remain at neutral.”  Quest forecast 2012 profit of $4.40 to $4.55, less than
analysts’ average estimate of $4.66. The board’s authorization
of a $1 billion buyback plan brings the company’s total
authorization to about $1.1 billion, Ellich said.  “The company’s initial 2012 guidance -- flat year over
year at the mid-point -- was a disappointment; however it likely
doesn’t include additional share buybacks,”  Jason Gurda , an
analyst with Leerink Swann & Co., wrote in a note today.  Gurda also said the forecast may be conservative because of
the company’s planned change in chief executive officers; Quest
said in October it was seeking a successor to CEO Surya Mohapatra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  