-- Travelers Profit Slips on Lower Investment Income, Reserves
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-01-24T21:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/travelers-profit-misses-estimates-as-investment-income-reserves-decline.html
Travelers Cos. (TRV) , the only insurer in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , said fourth-quarter profit
fell on lower investment income and a smaller reserve benefit,
capping the company’s least profitable year since 2004.  Net income slipped 31 percent to $618 million, or $1.51 per
share, from $894 million, or $1.95, a year-earlier, the New
York-based company said today in a statement. Operating profit,
which excludes some investment results, was $1.48 a share,
missing the $1.52 average  estimate  of 22 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Travelers, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jay Fishman, has increased rates for customers as near record-low
 interest rates  eroded investment income from the company’s bond
portfolio and losses from storms led the insurer to assess
whether its models understated risk in the U.S. Full-year net
income was $1.43 billion, the lowest for the company since 2004,
the year of the merger with St. Paul Cos. The figure compares
with net income of $3.22 billion in 2010.  “The story for the full year, of course, was the
remarkable weather,’ Fishman, 59, said today on a conference
call with analysts to discuss results. ‘‘Weather losses were far
and away the worst in our history.’’  Travelers fell 3.8 percent to $58 at 4 p.m. in  New York ,
the insurer’s biggest one-day drop since October. The firm has
fallen 2 percent this year, compared with the 30-company Dow’s
3.8 percent gain.  Investment Income  Net investment income fell to $541 million in the fourth
quarter from $644 million a year earlier. A decline in income
from alternative investments, such as private equity, real
estate partnerships and  hedge funds , fueled the drop.  Insurers’ investment income has come under pressure as
higher-yielding bonds mature and proceeds are reinvested at
lower rates. The  Federal Reserve , led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , repeated its view last month that economic conditions
warrant ‘‘exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at
least through mid-2013.”  That’s pushed insurers, including  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  and
Hartford Financial Services Group Inc., to shift asset
allocations to improve returns.  Travelers booked an $83 million gain in the quarter after
determining it had more money set aside than needed for claims
on policies sold in prior quarters. That compares with a benefit
of $228 million a year earlier.  Policy Sales  Policy sales climbed to $5.26 billion from $5.23 billion a
year earlier. Renewal premiums for business customers, excluding
national accounts, rose 8 percent.  “We are pleased with the results of the pricing and
underwriting actions that we have taken,” Fishman said in the
statement.  The insurer spent 95.9 cents of every premium dollar on
claims and expenses, up from 90.6 cents a year earlier. An
October snowstorm struck states from  West Virginia  to Maine,
knocked out power to millions and added to record natural
disaster claims in 2011. Catastrophes worldwide led to $105
billion in insured losses last year, according to a report from
 Munich Re , the world’s largest reinsurer.  About $25 billion of those costs came from U.S. storms
including the tornado that leveled parts of Joplin, Missouri, in
May.  Hurricane Irene  in August caused $7 billion in insured
losses, Munich Re data show.  Travelers’ book value per share, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, rose to $62.32 from $60.98 at the end of September,
as the company repurchased $1.2 billion of stock in the fourth
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut@bloomberg.net . 