-- RBS Report Altered After FSA Claimed Goodwin Lacked ‘Experience’
-- B y   A n t h o n y   A a r o n s
-- 2012-01-24T15:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/rbs-report-altered-after-fsa-claimed-goodwin-lacked-experience-.html
A report on  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc ’s near-collapse was changed to remove a section that
said  Fred Goodwin , the lender’s former chief executive officer,
“lacked the experience to run an international bank.”  The findings in the Financial Services Authority report
were altered when Goodwin’s lawyers were allowed to see the
document, Bill Knight, a lawyer who conducted an independent
review of the document, told a U.K. Parliament committee today.
Knight said the change during the so-called “Maxwellization
process” was fair.  “The suggestion was that he lacked the experience to run
an international bank,” Knight told the U.K. Treasury Select
Committee. “There was no evidence of a lack of competence.”  The FSA released the report into RBS’s finances in December
after the regulator was criticized by lawmakers for clearing
Goodwin and other officials of wrongdoing. Lawmakers said they
deserved a greater explanation of the circumstances that led to
RBS getting a 45.5 billion-pound ($70.9 billion) rescue by
taxpayers following the lender’s acquisition of ABN Amro Holding
and the 2008 financial crisis.  David Walker , the former chairman of Morgan Stanley
International who along with Knight conducted the independent
review of the FSA report at the request of the committee, said
that Goodwin did a poor job delegating authority and didn’t
always give the bank’s board “adequate risk information.”  Neither Knight nor Walker would be drawn in on questions
from the committee about whether the FSA report raised serious
enough concerns to strip Goodwin of his knighthood. U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  said last week that it should be
reviewed.  A spokesman for Goodwin wasn’t immediately available to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News. Liam Parker, an FSA
spokesman, and Michael Strachan, an RBS spokesman, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  