-- Treasury 10-Year Note Falls for Fifth Day on Strong Data Before Auction
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-24T16:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/treasuries-depreciate-on-strong-data-before-sale-of-two-year-notes.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell for a
fifth day, the longest losing streak in almost two months, as a
measure of manufacturing activity was better than forecast and
the U.S. readied to sell $99 billion of notes this week.  U.S. two-year notes were little changed as the government
prepared to sell $35 billion of the securities and the  Federal
Reserve  gathered to begin a two-day policy meeting. The overall
business activity index for mid-Atlantic region factories rose
to 12 in January, according to the latest report from the
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, compared with a 6 expected by
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Treasuries rose earlier as talks
over Greek debt restructuring reached a stalemate.  “The Richmond Fed number was much better than expected and
the market is preparing for more supply, which is all weighing
on Treasuries,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government
trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage
for institutional investors. “Still, there is a lot of
uncertainty with regards to  Europe , and how that situation will
resolve, and that limits any selloff.”  The 10-year yield rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.08 percent at 11:22 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note
maturing in November 2021 traded down at 1/4, or $2.50 per
$1,000 face amount, at 99 9/32.  The two-year notes being sold today yielded 0.25 percent in
pre-auction trading, compared with 0.24 percent at the previous
sale of the securities on Dec. 19, the lowest since August.
Investors bid for 3.45 times the debt on sale last month, down
from 4.07 times in November.  ‘Tight Range’  The two-year note “will continue to trade an extremely
tight range around the 25 cent level with rates staying
exceptionally low for quite some time,” Justin Lederer, an
interest-rate strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York,
one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed, wrote in a
note to clients. “We expect today’s auction to be fair and the
easiest of this week.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  left its target for
overnight loans between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
last month and reiterated that economic conditions may warrant
“exceptionally low” rates at least through mid-2013. The
central bank is forecast to keep the key rate unchanged
tomorrow, a Bloomberg survey shows.  Fed Purchases  The Fed bought $4.93 billion of Treasuries as part of its
program to replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its
portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to reduce
borrowing costs further and counter rising risks of a recession.  The FOMC plans to release all 17 policy makers’ rate
projections for the fourth quarter of 2012, the next few years
and the long run, as well as an explanation for their
assessments. The Fed will provide the information at the
conclusion of a two-day meeting tomorrow.  The decision to announce the projections is the latest
effort by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke to increase openness and
public understanding of the Fed. Since becoming chairman in
2006, Bernanke has begun holding regular press conferences and
voiced his views in television interviews and at town hall
meetings. He’s also announced forecasts on economic growth.  “The market is waiting for the Fed and the auction process
to get some direction,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  IMF Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for the
global economy as Europe slips into a recession and growth cools
in  China  and  India . Finance ministers balked at putting up more
public money for  Greece  and called on bondholders to provide
greater debt relief, spurring concern the nation may fail to
make a March 20 bond payment. S&P would still consider any debt
relief being negotiated as a default, according to  John
Chambers , managing director of sovereign ratings.  A potential Greek default would be “uncatastrophic,”
 Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset Management in New
York, which oversees $1.3 billion, told Bloomberg Television.
“There would be a bad, short, sharp reaction by the market, and
then we’d all get on with it. There’s going to be a deep loss
suffered by the private holders of Greek debt whether you have a
deal or default.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  