-- Treasuries Fall for Fifth Day Before Federal Reserve’s Policy Meeting
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-01-24T22:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/treasuries-fall-for-fifth-day-after-35-billion-two-year-u-s-note-auction.html
Treasury  bonds  fell for a fifth day
as investors speculated whether the first release of policy
makers’ expectations for borrowing rates will offer insight into
when the  Federal Reserve  will begin tightening monetary policy.  The U.S. government’s $35 billion auction of two-year notes
drew stronger-than-average demand, suggesting that Treasuries
will retain their refuge appeal as talks to restructure  Greece ’s
debt reach a stalemate. The Fed has left its target for
overnight loans between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
since 2008 and last month reiterated that economic conditions
may warrant “exceptionally low” rates at least through
mid-2013.  “There is a lot of uncertainty about how the rates
guidance will be shaped up at the FOMC meeting,” said Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist in New York at Jefferies
Group Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“The possibility that it could change has been a main driver of
the fluctuations we are seeing.”  Yields on the 30-year bond rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.14 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
securities maturing in November 2041 fell 9/32, or $2.81 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 20/32.  The benchmark 10-year  yield  rose one basis point to 2.06
percent. The  yield  on the current two-year note was little
changed at 0.23 percent. It has traded in a range of 0.21
percent to 0.28 percent this year.  ‘Exceptionally Low’  The central bank is forecast to keep the key rate unchanged
at tomorrow’s policy meeting, a Bloomberg survey shows. After
the FOMC meeting tomorrow, policy makers will provide an
explanation for their assessments along with their rate
forecasts.  “There has been bearish momentum in the markets,” said
 Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP
Paribas SA, a primary dealer. “The market is stepping on the
brake ahead of the FOMC meeting as it deals with the question
of, is there less room for the Fed to provide easing? And the
prospect of supply doesn’t’ help either.”  This week’s note sales, including last week’s $15 billion
auction of 10-year inflation indexed notes, will raise $56.5
billion of new cash, as maturing securities total $57.5 billion.  Bid-to-Cover  The two-year auction’s bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 3.75, versus an average of 3.43 for the previous 10
sales. The size of the offering was the same as at the past 15
sales of the two-year maturity after peaking at $44 billion from
October 2009 through April 2010. The securities mature in
January 2014.  Indirect (USB2IBA%)  bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 32.9 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 32.3 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct (USB2DBA%)  bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 8.3 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 14.2 percent at the last
10 auctions.  Two-year notes returned 0.03 percent this year, compared
with a 0.78 percent loss for the broader Treasury market,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “There is still demand for the front end given the
uncertainties around the globe and the stance the Fed has
taken,” said Jefferies’s Simons.  $99 Billion  The note offering was the first of three this week totaling
$99 billion. The Treasury will sell $35 billion in five-year
debt tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year securities on Jan
26.  “We’ve seen a consistent flight away from quality this
year as fears coming from  Europe  have receded some,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government and
agency-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income
broker and dealer for institutional investors. Investors should
“use this opportunity to buy the weakness in the market as it’s
hard to be a believer that Europe is on its way to solving its
problems.”  The Fed bought $4.93 billion of Treasuries as part of its
program to replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its
portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to reduce
borrowing costs further and counter rising risks of a recession.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for the
global economy as Europe slips into a recession and growth cools
in  China  and  India . Finance ministers balked at putting up more
public money for Greece and called on bondholders to provide
greater debt relief, spurring concern the nation may fail to
make a March 20 bond payment.  S&P would still consider any debt relief being negotiated
as a default, according to  John Chambers , managing director of
sovereign ratings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  