-- Republican Payroll Tax Negotiators Push Pipeline, EPA Limits
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-01-25T01:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/republican-payroll-tax-negotiators-push-pipeline-limits-on-epa.html
Republican lawmakers negotiating a
payroll tax cut extension are seeking to attach provisions
reviving a blocked Canadian oil pipeline and limiting the
Environmental Protection Agency’s authority to regulate
industrial boilers.  Democratic negotiators, who oppose those additions to the
tax cut measure, argued at the panel’s first meeting today for
attaching extensions of other expiring and expired tax breaks.
Democrats also are seeking continued funding for the Temporary
Assistance for  Needy Families  and for paying for the package
with a surcharge on millionaires and by eliminating tax breaks
that benefit the wealthy.  The divergent wish lists underscore the gap that
negotiators must bridge to reach consensus before a short-term
extension of the payroll tax cut expires Feb. 29. The parties
disagree over how to pay for the plan and whether all the cost
must be offset. Lawmakers disagree over how to approach the sale
of portions of the wireless spectrum, a proposal that was
gaining consensus in December.  Republicans say the full cost of the package must be
offset.  “Unless we find a way to pay for these programs, we will
be forced to borrow even more money from places like  China ,
creating an even larger debt dragging our economy down,” said
House Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican
on the panel.  Tax Cut at Risk  Unless Congress acts, the 2 percentage point payroll tax
break for employees will lapse, as will emergency unemployment
benefits, and physicians who are reimbursed through Medicare
would receive lower payments from the government. The panel’s
next meeting will be Feb. 1, Camp said.  Republicans said they will demand that language reversing
President  Barack Obama ’s Jan. 18 decision to deny a permit for
TransCanada Corp.’s $7 billion Keystone XL oil pipeline project
be part of a deal, along with the boiler language.  “Those are solutions to the problems of unemployment, not
simply a Band-Aid, which, of course, the extension of
 unemployment insurance  is,” Senator  Jon Kyl , an Arizona
Republican, said in an interview.  Senate Democrats on the panel, including Finance Chairman
 Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, said they will push to attach to
the measure extensions totaling about $30 billion of other
expiring tax breaks.  Ben Cardin , a Maryland Democrat, said he
wanted the needy families program extended as well.  Other Breaks  Senator  Ben Nelson , a Nebraska Democrat, said in an
interview that he wants “to see what they’re going to try to do
to pay for it” before determining whether he could support a
payroll tax cut extension proposal that included extensions of
other breaks.  “If we don’t try to pay for something around here, then
nothing gets paid for, and that’s a slippery slope to a bad
result,” Nelson said.  The issues raised today were many of the same that
contributed to an impasse in December that led lawmakers to pass
a short-term extension before the tax break expired on Dec. 31.
The addition of elements to the package could complicate
discussions.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat, said
he will seek a balance between spending cuts and revenue
increases in the package and that he would push for a
millionaire surtax Democrats proposed last year. He also said he
will press to change the tax treatment of carried interest, the
profit stake that private-equity managers receive from
successful investments. Carried interest is taxed at the 15
percent capital gains rate rather than at ordinary income tax
rates, which can be as high as 35 percent.  “It’s our job to work together here to make sure this tax
cut doesn’t expire,” Baucus said. “We need to show we can rise
above politics for the good of the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  