-- Rescue Fund ‘Combo,’ Sino-Forest Trading Halt, Pace Center: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-01-24T13:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/rescue-fund-combo-sino-forest-halt-pace-center-compliance.html
Germany  floated the idea of
combining Europe’s two rescue funds, in a concession to bolster
the fight against the fiscal crisis as Greece bargained with
bondholders over debt relief.  Germany may be open to boosting the combined aid limit from
500 billion euros ($651 billion) when a permanent fund runs
alongside the temporary fund starting in July, government
officials in Berlin said. The need for a beefed-up fund was
dramatized by haggling between Greece, the trigger of the two-
year-old crisis, and its creditors over debt reduction to stave
off default.  Finance chiefs will tackle the rescue funds, Greece’s
latest offer to bondholders, a German-inspired deficit-control
treaty and nominees to the European Central Bank’s board in
meetings of finance ministers in Brussels that started at 2:30
p.m. in the evening yesterday and were expected to run until
late in the evening.  Germany,  Europe ’s dominant economic power, gave the
strongest signal yet that it would allow the roughly 250 billion
euros left in the temporary rescue fund to be tapped once the
permanent fund is set up.  Running the two funds in parallel “is being discussed,”
 Norbert Barthle , parliamentary budget spokesman for Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , said in an interview
in Berlin. The issue may come up at a summit of European leaders
on Jan. 30, government spokesman Steffen Seibert said.  Such a step would boost Europe’s unspent crisis-fighting
capacity to around 750 billion euros. On top of that would come
150 billion euros pledged by euro-area central banks to the
 International Monetary Fund .  For more, click here, click here, click here, and see
Interviews section, below.  Compliance Policy  EU Ministers Get Deal on Clearing Rules for OTC Derivatives  European Union finance ministers reached a deal to resolve
a split on regulators’ powers over clearinghouses that handle
over-the-counter derivatives.  The ministers, meeting in Brussels today, struck an accord
on when supervisors in the region can override national
decisions to authorize clearing firms.  The clash had threatened progress toward the region’s
implementation of an international accord to toughen rules for
trading and clearing of OTC derivatives. The Financial Stability
Board warned last year that nations may miss an end-2012
deadline for applying the measures, and that there were signs
that the rules were being applied in an inconsistent way.  Margrethe Vestager, Denmark’s economy minister, described
the compromise as “delicate.” Denmark holds the EU’s rotating
presidency.  The U.K. government has sought to limit the override
powers, warning that they could be used to pressure U.K.-based
clearing firms to move part of their business to the euro area.
Allowing national decisions to be overturned shouldn’t set the
precedent for future EU financial laws, according to the deal.  Under the compromise deal, regulators would be able to
block a national decision to authorize a clearinghouse if they
get a two-thirds majority among other relevant regulators,
according to a text of the EU accord given to reporters after
the discussions. A final ruling would then be made by the
European Securities and Markets Authority.  The U.K. has sued the  European Central Bank  over its plans
to prevent trades in some euro-denominated securities from being
cleared outside the 17 countries that share the currency.
Britain has also sought to thwart the ECB stance by seeking
safeguards in the draft derivatives legislation.  Municipal Market Rulemaker Will Post Trades Among Bond Dealers  The rulemaker in the $3.7 trillion municipal  bond market 
plans to post trades among securities dealers to expand the
price information available to investors.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board is seeking
permission from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to
disclose so-called inter-dealer trades starting April 30, the
Alexandria, Virginia-based group said in a press release
yesterday. It already releases trades between dealers and
investors. The trades are posted on the MSRB’s Electronic
Municipal Market Access system, or EMMA.  The disclosure would provide investors more data about the
prices and yields at which specific bonds trade, the MSRB said.  The MSRB created EMMA, a free database, to give investors
information about the value of bonds.  Stress Tests for U.S. Banks Credit Positive, Moody’s Says  Proposed capital adequacy stress tests for state-chartered
U.S. banks are credit positive, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The tests, proposed last week by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, would promote capital retention and
support banks’ access to capital markets, Moody’s said in its
weekly credit outlook. The proposal would exclude banks with
less than $10 billion in assets, which have the highest risk of
failure, Moody’s said.  For-Profit Colleges Face Curbs on U.S. Aid in New Vets Bill  For-profit colleges would be forced to rely less on federal
money under a bill aimed at curbing the marketing of degrees to
soldiers and veterans.  The proposed legislation, expected to be introduced
yesterday by Senate Democratic leaders, would require for-profit
colleges to get no more than 85 percent of their revenue from
federal programs, according to a summary from the office of
Illinois Senator  Richard Durbin , a co-sponsor. Colleges now can
receive as much as 90 percent. They would lose federal funding
for exceeding the cap for one year, instead of the current
three.  Colleges solicit the military because their government
tuition programs are excluded from the cap on federal money,
said Senate education committee Chairman  Tom Harkin , the other
sponsor. The bill would eliminate that incentive by counting
military money, according to Christina Mulka, a spokeswoman for
Durbin, the majority whip, or No. 2 Senate Democrat.  The legislation “will close a loophole that has made
veterans and active duty military major targets of deceptive
marketing and aggressive recruitment, rather than students
treated with the respect their service deserves,” Harkin, who
represents Iowa, said in a statement.  Eight for-profit college companies received about $626
million in veterans’ education benefits in the most recent
academic year, the Senate education committee said in a November
report. The eight include  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , which owns
University of Phoenix, the largest chain by enrollment; and
 Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the second-biggest.  For more, click here.  U.K. to Require Firms to Detail Pay of Individual Executives  U.K. Business  Secretary Vince Cable said the government
will require listed companies to detail how much the highest
paid individuals are getting and to explain how they’ve taken
the earnings of other employees into account when setting top
pay.  “We cannot accept top pay rising at five times average
workers’ pay as we did last year,” Cable told lawmakers in
London yesterday.  Compliance Action  Bank Tejarat Banned by U.S., EU in Move Stifling Iran Trade  The U.S. and European Union took steps to cut off from the
international financial system Bank Tejarat, the last
institution financing high-volume exports and imports between
Iran and Europe.  The coordinated actions will have consequences for tens of
billions of dollars in legitimate and illicit trade.  The U.S. Treasury Department yesterday designated Bank
Tejarat, Iran’s third-largest bank, for providing financial
services to the country’s banks and companies that are under
international sanctions for involvement in Iran’s nuclear and
missile proliferation. Financial institutions anywhere in the
world that do business with the bank risk being cut off
themselves from the U.S. financial system.  Treasury Undersecretary for Terrorism and Financial
Intelligence David S. Cohen said in a statement that the move
will deepen Iran’s financial isolation and “make its access to
hard currency even more tenuous and further impair Iran’s
ability to finance its illicit nuclear program.”  EU foreign ministers yesterday in Brussels agreed to freeze
the assets of Bank Tejarat’s European branch in Paris. The
specific provisions were issued early today in the Official
Journal in Brussels.  The targeting of Bank Tejarat is the latest salvo in a
stepped-up campaign by the U.S. and EU to persuade Iran to
abandon suspected efforts to gain a nuclear weapons capability,
and the action may have even more significant consequences than
an EU oil embargo approved yesterday.  For more, click here, and click here.  Sino-Forest Share Halt Extended to April 16 by Canada Regulator  Canada’s main securities regulator extended the trading ban
on  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese timber company fending off
fraud allegations, after saying a lack of disclosure meant an
orderly market can’t be maintained.  The Ontario Securities Commission lengthened the trading
suspension to April 16 at a hearing yesterday in Toronto. The
cease-trade was due to expire Jan. 25. Sino-Forest investors
lack sufficient information to make informed decisions about the
company, Hugh Craig, counsel for the OSC staff, said at the
hearing.  The ruling is a setback for investors seeking to sell their
holdings. Shares of Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based
Sino-Forest were halted by the OSC in August after falling 74
percent since June, when short seller Carson Block said the
company had overstated its timber holdings. Sino-Forest denies
the allegations.  Chief Executive Officer Judson Martin, who took over after
the resignation of company founder, Chairman and CEO Allen Chan
in August, said in November that Sino-Forest may consider going
private, selling a stake or seeking a merger to raise funds.  Sino-Forest, which is also under investigation by the  Royal
Canadian Mounted Police , is in talks with bondholders. It has
$1.8 billion in outstanding bonds. A special committee of Sino-
Forest directors has been investigating the Muddy Waters’
allegations.  Holders of Sino-Forest shares lost about C$3.3 billion
($3.28 billion) following the June 2 publication of a report by
Block’s research firm Muddy Waters LLC.  Courts  Diamondback Avoids Prosecution, Agrees to Pay $9 Million  Diamondback Capital Management LLC won’t be criminally
prosecuted and will pay more than $9 million to end an insider-
trading investigation involving  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) 
stock.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said his office
agreed not to prosecute Diamondback for the actions of two
former employees,  Todd Newman , a former portfolio manager, and
Jesse Tortora, a former analyst. In a complaint filed last week,
prosecutors said the pair and five other men were part of a
“criminal club” of fund managers and analysts who swapped
illegal tips.  Newman, who began working at Diamondback in March 2006, was
charged with conspiracy to commit securities fraud and
securities fraud in the criminal complaint filed by Bharara’s
office on Jan. 18. Tortora has pleaded guilty and is cooperating
with the U.S., Bharara said. Newman, who hasn’t entered a plea,
was released on $3 million bond.  Diamondback yesterday separately agreed to resolve a Jan.
18 Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit over trades made
in 2008 and 2009 by the former employees, the SEC said in a
statement.  The SEC filed claims against Diamondback, Newman and
Tortora last week as part of a wider insider-trading case that
involved five different hedge funds and investment firms. The
agency claimed Newman learned inside information about Dell’s
earnings in 2008 from Tortora.  Diamondback, which said it is “gratified finally to have
reached closure” on the proceedings, added that the costs of
the settlement -- a $3 million fine and surrender of $6 million
in ill-gotten gains, according to the SEC -- won’t be borne by
investors and won’t affect operations. The accord requires court
approval.  A lawyer hired by Diamondback concluded after an
investigation that certain trades by Newman and Tortora in Dell
and Nvidia resulted from material nonpublic information they
received from an unidentified expert-networking firm,
prosecutors said. Diamondback in late 2009 instructed so-called
expert-networking firms it used not to permit meetings or
conference calls with fund employees if the consultants were
employed by public companies, Bharara’s office said.  The external probe found “no evidence that either the
conduct or the improper information” was known by the firm’s
co-founders, according to prosecutors.  The case is SEC v. Adondakis, 12-cv-409, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  Securitized Debt Faces Greater Risk From Volcker Rule, Mass Says  Securitized debt markets may be more damaged than trading
in corporate bonds or stocks by new rules that will restrict the
risks banks can take, said Ronald Mass, co-head of structured
products at Western Asset Management Co.  Liquidity in markets for securities backed by loans and
leases depends more on dealers being willing to hold
inventories, something that the so-called Volcker rule would
crimp, Mass said in Las Vegas at the  American Securitization
Forum ’s annual conference.  “It’s something that’s a really big concern,” he said.
“Hopefully it won’t turn out in the design of the strictest
interpretations.”  Dealer positions in U.S. home-loan bonds without
government-backing are down 50 percent to 70 percent over the
past year, amid pending regulatory changes and as Europe’s debt
crisis roils markets, he said.  Tucker Says ‘Mechanistic’ Reliance on Credit Ratings Must End  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said regulators
should work to eliminate the “mechanistic” use of credit
ratings in parts of the financial system.  “It’s important that authorities initially reduce and if
we can eliminate the mechanistic reliance on rating agency
ratings by banks” and other participants in the financial
system, such as securities dealers.  Tucker made the remarks at an event in London.  LNG’s Gargour Says EU’s Fractious In-Fighting a Concern  Louis Gargour, chief investment officer at LNG Capital LLP,
talks about the European sovereign-debt crisis and asset
allocation.  He speaks with  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  Munchau Says Global Community Mustn’t Finance EU Crisis  Wolfgang Munchau, president and co-founder of
 Eurointelligence , talks about the role of the International
Monetary Fund in solving the European sovereign-debt crisis and
the economic outlook for Italy and Spain.  He speaks from Brussels with Mark Barton on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Pace Creates Center for Global Governance, Regulation  Pace University’s  Lubin School of Business  has established
a Center for Global Governance, Reporting and Regulation,
according to a statement by the school.  John Alan (Jack) James, a Lubin professor and proponent of
the teaching of comparative corporate governance, has been named
the center’s inaugural executive director, the university said
in the statement. James, an author and consultant for 40 years,
has taught in business schools in France, Switzerland, and the
U.S.  Next month the Lubin center will begin offering a six-month
certificate program. The center will also serve as a setting for
the exchange of views among professionals and policy makers on
“issues facing world economies,” the university said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 