-- Rio Gains Majority Stake in Ivanhoe After Poison Pill Scrapped
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-01-24T22:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/rio-raises-ivanhoe-stake-to-51-no-intent-to-buy-more-stock-1-.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  raised its stake to
a 51 percent majority in  Ivanhoe (IVN)  Mines Ltd., the owner of the $6
billion Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine in Mongolia, after
buying C$302 million ($299 million) of  stock  from two sellers.  Rio paid C$20 apiece for 15.1 million shares, a 2 percent
stake, and has no “current intention” of buying more stock,
the London-based company said yesterday in a statement.  “However, Rio Tinto reserves its right to seek
opportunities to purchase additional securities” depending on a
range of factors including its view of  Ivanhoe (IVN) ’s business, the
market for the stock as well as general economic and tax
conditions, it said.  Rio, the world’s third-largest mining company, became the
majority owner of Vancouver-based Ivanhoe less than a week after
the Canadian company said it decided to scrap a shareholder
rights plan. The so-called poison pill would have allowed
Ivanhoe to issue new shares to block an attempted takeover. Oyu
Tolgoi is one of the world’s largest untapped copper and gold
deposits.  “It’s clear that  Rio Tinto  will own all of this project;
the question is when and at what price,”  John Goldsmith , a
Toronto-based  money manager  at Montrusco Bolton Investments,
which oversees C$4.5 billion, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “Any smart business person knows it’s not astute to
bid against yourself when you already own the bulk of the
asset.”  Whole Company  Ivanhoe (IVN)  fell 4.2 percent to C$17.53 in Toronto yesterday.
Rio  declined  1 percent to close at 3,700 pence in  London .  “Rio will eventually move to take over the whole
company,” Ray Goldie, a Toronto-based analyst at Salman
Partners Inc., said yesterday by telephone. “The only advice
would be you have to be patient because we don’t know the time
frame.”  Construction of Oyu Tolgoi is 70 percent complete and
commercial production is due to start in the first half of 2013,
Rio said yesterday.  Ivanhoe owns 66 percent of Oyu Tolgoi, which is located 80
kilometers (50 miles) north of  Mongolia ’s border with  China . The
project will be one of the world’s five biggest copper mines,
according to Rio, which is managing its development.  “Rio would definitely like to have 100 percent of the
asset, and we don’t know what their time frame is for achieving
that,” Goldie said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  