-- Roche Denies Settling Claims Over Genentech’s Raptiva Psoriasis Drug
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-01-24T19:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/roche-settles-raptiva-claims-plaintiffs-lawyer-says.html
Roche Holdings AG (ROG)  denied settling
lawsuits that say its Raptiva psoriasis drug caused lethal
infections and said it’s proceeding to the first trial of the
claims in June.  Mark Lanier , a lawyer for the plaintiffs, earlier said
Roche’s  Genentech  unit had settled. He later called that
statement “in error and wishful thinking.”  Genentech  was sued in state court in California over
allegations that Raptiva caused Stephen Johnson’s death. The 46-
year-old Louisiana businessman took the drug to treat a skin
condition. The Johnson family is seeking $15 million in
compensatory damages along with “several hundred million
dollars” in punitive damages, according to plaintiffs’ lawyers.  “Genentech has not settled the Stephen Johnson lawsuit,”
Nadine Pinell, a spokeswoman for the South  San Francisco ,
California-based company, said today in an e-mailed statement.
“The trial in this matter is set to begin on June 4, 2012.”  Genentech began taking Raptiva off the U.S. and European
markets in April 2009 after three psoriasis patients were
diagnosed with  progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy , or
PML, a rare, incurable brain infection. The month before the
withdrawal, Basel, Switzerland-based Roche completed a
$46.8 billion  buyout  of the biotech company.  Skin Lesions  Psoriasis is a disease that leaves sufferers with red,
itchy skin lesions, lawyers for Johnson’s family said in court
filings. Johnson had taken the drug for almost five years before
his death in January 2009, according to the filings.  Genentech officials estimated in 2009 that about 2,000 U.S.
patients were taking the drug when the company began pulling it
from shelves. The medication, which generated $108 million in
sales in 2008, had been used by an estimated 46,000 patients
worldwide. The psoriasis treatment was approved for sale by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2003.  “I was premature and the case is now on the docket for
June,” Lanier said. “They have indicated we are going to
trial.”  The case is Johnson v. Genentech Inc., RG 10-494957,
 California  Superior Court, Alameda County (Oakland).  --Andrew Dunn, Mary Romano  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  