-- Romney’s Tax Return Set to Inflame Debate Over Investment Rate
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-01-24T16:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/romney-s-tax-return-release-set-to-inflame-debate-over-15-investment-rate.html
The release of former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney’s 2010  tax return  today may only inflame
the controversy over the tax code’s treatment of some of the
nation’s richest individuals.  Romney, who made a fortune of as much as $250 million in
the private-equity industry, paid an effective tax rate of 13.9
percent on income of $21.6 million in 2010, according to a tax
return his campaign showed reporters last night and will release
today. That compares with the 35 percent top marginal tax rate.  The Obama administration and congressional Democrats are
seeking to benefit from debate over the so-called carried
interest provision, which provides a relative handful of
investment executives with preferential tax rates. President
 Barack Obama  views the tax break as a “loophole” that is
“just not fair,” White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said
last week.  At issue is the U.S. tax code’s treatment of carried
interest, or the share of profits that partners in private
equity firms, hedge funds and real estate developments receive
as the bulk of their compensation. That income is taxed at the
15 percent capital gains rate rather than at ordinary income
rates of as much as 35 percent, although many tax specialists
say it represents compensation for labor.  ‘Once and for All’  Representative  Sander Levin  of  Michigan , the top Democrat
on the House Ways and Means Committee, said the influence of
carried interest on Romney’s tax bill “further illustrates the
need to address this issue once and for all.”  “Regardless of whether compensation is earned for managing
investments of other people’s money or providing other types of
services, it should be taxed at the same rates paid by everyone
else in the U.S.,” he said in a statement today.  Levin said on Jan. 18 that he plans to reintroduce
legislation that would tax carried interest at ordinary income
rates.  The opening round of a renewed effort to tax such carried
interest as ordinary income may come as soon as tonight’s State
of the Union address, expected to revolve around a theme of
“economic fairness.”  For Obama and congressional Democrats, the issue’s appeal
is more symbolic than substantive. There is almost no chance
that a divided Congress this year would raise the  tax  rates that
apply to such income. The notion that some of the nation’s
richest individuals pay tax rates that are lower than millions
of typical Americans, however, dovetails with rising public
concern about the gap between rich and poor.  Sharp Conflict  A Pew Research Center poll earlier this month found that 66
percent of Americans saw a sharp conflict between rich and poor,
up from 47 percent in 2009. The largest increase in such
sentiments was among self-described independent voters.  Warren Buffett , chairman and chief executive of  Berkshire
Hathaway (BRK/A)  and an outspoken supporter of the president, yesterday
again criticized the tax system for touching the wealthy so
lightly.  “It’s the wrong policy to have,” Buffett told Bloomberg
Television’s Betty Liu in an interview. Romney is “not going to
pay more than the law requires, and I don’t fault him for that
in the least. But I do fault a law that allows him and me
earning enormous sums to pay overall federal taxes at a rate
that’s about half what the average person in my office pays.”  Payroll Tax Cut  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , the senior
Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said on Jan. 20 that the
carried interest tax break should be eliminated and the
resulting revenue used to fund the administration’s proposal to
extend the  payroll  tax cut for workers.  “These are people who are not putting their own capital at
risk,”  Van Hollen  said. “They’re not putting their own dollars
in the mix. They’re getting a special deal that’s not available
to other people in the economy.”  The Private Equity Growth Capital Council, an industry
group, says carried interest is “fundamentally different in
character” from regular wages. If such income were taxed at
regular rates, private equity investment could decline by $7.7
billion to $27 billion a year, according to a 2010 council
study.  Private equity firms, including Romney’s former firm Bain
Capital, usually put up a thin slice of a buyout fund’s capital.
For example, Bain invested just $3.5 million, or 0.1 percent, of
the $3.5 billion  Bain Capital Fund VIII (PEF1136) , launched in 2004. The
company is scheduled to receive 30 percent of the fund’s profits
once investors get their initial capital back, according to
copies of the fund’s financial statements obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Management Fee  Private equity firms also receive a 2 percent management
fee, which is taxed as ordinary income.  Seeking to change the tax treatment of carried interest has
risks for the Democrats.  Brian Gardner , senior vice president
for Washington research at KBW Inc., said the party’s strategy
could backfire.  “There are Democrats that are close to and supportive of
private equity and  venture capital  -- Bay Area Democrats,
Silicon Valley Democrats,” he said. “It’s more complicated
than people appreciate.”  Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, also has been
in the middle of the policy debate that pits his party’s message
against the interests of some of his constituents. In 2007,
Schumer opposed tax measures that singled out carried interest
compensation at private equity firms or  hedge funds .  Broader Range  In a later move that doomed legislation changing the tax
treatment of carried interest, he backed a measure that would
have affected a broader range of businesses including oil and
gas, venture capital and real estate partnerships.  Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican who sits on
the Ways and Means Committee, called the Democratic focus on
carried interest “a political gimmick” with “zero chance” of
passage.  “Make no mistake: most of that provision doesn’t hit those
giant hedge funds,” Brady said in an interview. “It’s
traditional real estate partnerships that build our office
buildings, shopping centers and movie theaters and industrial
parks.”  Between 2007 and 2010, the Democratic-controlled House
passed legislation that would tax some or all carried interest
at ordinary rates. Treating carried interest as ordinary income
would generate almost $31 billion in revenue over 10 years for
the Treasury, according to a 2008 estimate by the congressional
Joint Committee on Taxation.  Half of Carried Interest  A narrower proposal that was passed by the House in 2010
and would have initially taxed half of carried interest
compensation as ordinary income was estimated to generate $17.7
billion over the period.  Though lawmakers have debated the tax treatment of carried
interest for years, the attention on Romney’s tax bill could
capture the public’s attention, said Richard Pomp, a professor
at the University of Connecticut School of Law in Hartford.  “The issue has been kick-started,” he said. “People will
understand it in a way they never understood it before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  