-- Romney’s 13.9% Tax Rate Shows Power of Investment Tax Preference
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 2012-01-25T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/romney-paid-13-9-percent-tax-rate-on-21-6-million-2010-income.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney ’s 2010 tax returns and the 13.9 percent rate he paid
highlight how wealthy investors can use the preferential
treatment of income classified as  capital gains  and dividends to
minimize payments to the U.S. government.  The returns provide a glimpse into the financial life of
Romney, whose campaign estimates his fortune at between $190
million and $250 million. Romney and his wife, Ann, receive
money from blind trusts that invest in  hedge funds  and receive
profits that flow from the private-equity investments Romney
made during his career at Bain Capital LLC. The couple donated
about 16 percent of their income to charity.  “The most affluent Americans in recent years have pulled
away from the rest of us, and the reason is at least in part
that they are able to compound their wealth at very, very low
tax rates,” said Edward Kleinbard, a law professor at the
University of  Southern California . “Romney’s  tax return , with
its heavy reliance on income taxed at low capital gains rates,
demonstrates that.”  The Romneys earned $21.6 million in 2010 and paid $3
million in income taxes. More than half of the former
Massachusetts governor’s earnings were considered capital gains
and dividends, which are taxed at a top rate of 15 percent
rather than the 35 percent top rate for ordinary income. His
campaign released  the returns  yesterday.  “Oh, I’m sure people will talk about it,” Romney, 64,
said during a debate in Tampa, Florida, on Jan. 23.  Near the Top  Romney’s income puts him near the top of U.S. taxpayers. In
2008, according to the  Internal Revenue Service , the median
adjusted gross income was $33,048, which Romney earned in less
than a day. Reaching the top 1 percent of taxpayers required
$380,354 in adjusted gross income, about Romney’s earnings in a
week.  The Romneys received a $1.6 million refund after filing
their 2010 return because they overpaid taxes during the year.
They had the refund applied to their 2011 taxes.  The campaign also released an estimated tax return for 2011
showing that Romney had an effective tax rate of 15.4 percent on
$20.9 million in adjusted gross income. That return hasn’t been
filed with the IRS.  Rekindling Debate  The discussion of Romney’s returns has reignited the
political debate over the tax treatment of investments and
particularly carried interest, or the profit stake that private-
equity managers receive from successful investments even if they
don’t invest their own money. Carried interest is taxed at
capital gains rates, and President  Barack Obama  and many
Democrats want to reverse that policy, calling it unfair.  Romney’s 2010 income included $7.4 million in carried
interest, said Ben Ginsberg, national counsel for the campaign.
Romney, who touts his track record in investing in companies
such as  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  and The Sports Authority Inc., received
$5.5 million in carried interest in 2011.  During 2010 and 2011, Romney paid $7.5 million less in
taxes than he would have if various Obama tax proposals were
implemented, including allowing the tax cuts enacted in 2001 and
2003 to expire and taxing carried interest as ordinary income,
said Seth Hanlon, director of fiscal reform for the Center for
American Progress Action Fund. The Washington research group is
often aligned with Democrats.  Ginsberg said Romney has paid 100 percent of what he owes
the government.  Just Capital Gains  Romney’s carried interest income stems from his tenure at
Bain, which ended in 1999. The returns show that the Romneys’
trusts received additional partnership interest in Bain funds,
and it was unclear exactly why.  “His position on carried interest is that it’s capital
gains income, and capital gains should be treated as capital
gains,” Romney adviser Eric Fehrnstrom told reporters in Tampa
yesterday.  Romney’s return indicates that he carried forward $4.8
million in capital losses from previous years, an indication
that he didn’t report positive capital gains on his 2009 return.
The campaign didn’t release tax returns from before 2010, and
Democrats are pressing the Romney campaign to provide more
returns to give a fuller picture of his income and how it has
changed.  “It’s an extensive disclosure and we feel it satisfies”
the requests for Romney to release his returns, Ginsberg told
reporters yesterday.  Better Under Gingrich  Romney, who lost the South Carolina primary on Jan. 21 and
is competing in the Jan. 31 contest in  Florida , would fare
better financially under rival  Newt Gingrich ’s tax plan than
under his own. Gingrich would end all taxation of capital gains;
Romney wouldn’t let high-income taxpayers receive that break.  Romney’s $7 million in charitable contributions in 2010 and
2011 topped the $6.2 million he and his wife paid in taxes
during the period. The couple gave $1.5 million cash in 2010 and
$2.6 million cash in 2011 to the Church of  Jesus Christ  of
Latter-Day Saints, the tax documents show.  At first glance, the dollar amount of the Romneys’
charitable giving is “shocking,” Russell James, director of a
graduate program in charitable financial planning at Texas Tech
University in Lubbock, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“But it’s a different story when you compare it to total
wealth. It’s not a shocking amount when you have a quarter-
billion dollars in wealth.”  ‘Squeaky Clean’  Romney didn’t take travel deductions related to his income
from public speaking, said Ken Brier, a tax attorney in Needham,
 Massachusetts , who described his returns as “pretty squeaky
clean.”  “He’s gone pretty light on his deductions,” Brier said.
“I guess he doesn’t want anyone to question it.”  The returns also demonstrate how, using sophisticated
estate planning, Romney has been able to give millions of
dollars to his children free of estate and gift taxes, because
of a legal structure known as a “grantor trust.”  Romney established three trusts to which he contributed
assets. The campaign said his children were listed as
beneficiaries, though didn’t specify of which trusts. The income
generated by the trusts triggers a tax obligation for Romney. By
picking up that tax bill, he found a legal way to transfer money
to his children free of gift taxes, said Mark G. Bosswick,
managing partner at Berdon LLP, an accounting firm in  New York .  ‘Great Technique’  In addition, any appreciation of the stock after it was
donated to the trusts grows free of gift and estate tax,
assuming a gift tax was calculated at the time of the donation.
The estate tax won’t be applied to the appreciation of assets
that are no longer in his estate.  “It’s a great technique because not only are you doing the
initial gift, but by him paying the taxes on the trusts’ income
each year he’s making additional gifts to the trust
beneficiaries free of gift tax,” Bosswick said. “Plus, any
appreciation of the investments will not be subjected to estate
and gift tax.”  The Romneys paid $232,989 because of the alternative
minimum tax, which is designed to prevent people from avoiding
taxes legally. That parallel tax system doesn’t eliminate the
preference for investment income.  The tax returns shed no new light on Romney’s considerable
individual retirement fund, worth as much as $101.6 million,
according to a financial disclosure he filed in August. It’s
unclear why the value is so high, given that contribution limits
to IRAs are relatively low.  Cayman Investments  Kleinbard speculated that Romney claimed low values on
carried interest in various Bain funds that he contributed to
the IRA.  The 2010 return shows that the Romneys’ blind trusts have
invested in an array of funds in tax-favored jurisdictions,
including the Caymans, Ireland and Luxembourg. Such offshore
funds attract investments from overseas investors who don’t want
to file disclosures with the IRS, said Bradley Smallberg, a CPA
at Smallberg Sorkin & Co. LLP in Melville, New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Drucker in New York at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  