-- Romney Labels Gingrich ‘Influence Peddler’ in Florida Debate
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2012-01-24T06:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/romney-goes-after-ascending-gingrich-on-freddie-mac-and-lobbying-in-debate.html
Mitt Romney  attacked  Newt Gingrich 
as an “influence peddler in Washington” and a failed leader
whose party ousted him as U.S. House speaker, as he sought in a
debate last night to slow his challenger’s momentum in the
Republican presidential race.  Gingrich dismissed Romney’s charges as the “worst kind of
trivial politics” and challenged his leadership skills, saying
Romney presided over losses of Republican seats in Massachusetts
and statehouses elsewhere as head of the party’s governors’
association.  With polls showing the Republican contest increasingly a
two-man battle between the ex-speaker and the former
Massachusetts governor, Romney struck a more combative stance
toward Gingrich than he has previously.  “It’s about leadership, and the speaker was given an
opportunity to be the leader of our party in 1994 and at the end
of four years he had to resign in disgrace,” Romney said during
the debate at the  University of South Florida  in Tampa.  He also pressed his case that, despite Gingrich’s denials,
he became a lobbyist after leaving office, focusing on the
consulting work he did for the government-backed home mortgage
company  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)   Contract Released  “We’ve just learned today that his contract with  Freddie
Mac  was provided by the lobbyist at Freddie Mac,” Romney said.
“I don’t think we could possibly retake the White House if the
person who’s leading our party is the person who was working for
the chief lobbyist of Freddie Mac.”  Gingrich’s consulting firm shortly before the debate
released a copy of its 2006 contract with Freddie Mac, which
covers just one year of his multiple years of service. It
outlines $300,000 of the $1.6 million he received from the
mortgage company. A contract covering a longer period is
missing, a Gingrich aide said.  Gingrich responded to Romney’s charges by accusing his
rival of “saying things that are untrue” about him throughout
Florida, the site of the next primary on Jan. 31.  He defended his tenure as speaker, saying he had helped
balance federal budgets, overhaul welfare and bring down
unemployment.  Though Gingrich generally tried to stay above the fray, he
sought to undercut Romney’s leadership criticism.  ‘Lost Governorships’  “In 2006, when you chaired the Governors Association, we
lost governorships,” Gingrich said. “And in the four years
that you were governor, we lost seats in the  Massachusetts 
legislature. So I think as a party builder, the 20 years I spent
building the House Republican Party stands pretty good as an
example of leadership.”  Gingrich announced his decision to resign from Congress in
November 1998, just after his party lost seats in mid-term
congressional elections. The previous year, the House had
reprimanded him for violating the chamber’s rules and required
Gingrich to pay $300,000 to reimburse the cost of its
investigation. The probe found he had used foundations financed
with tax-deductible contributions for political purposes.  In last night’s debate, Gingrich said he decided to resign
his seat because he was taking responsibility for his party’s
election losses.  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  disputed Gingrich’s
contention.  “This idea that he voluntarily reneged and he was going to
punish himself because we didn’t do well in the election, that’s
just not the way it was,” said Paul, another of the Republican
presidential contenders whose current House stint began in 1997.  Lacking the Votes  Gingrich didn’t run again for speaker because he didn’t
have the votes, Paul said. “It was a mess,” he said of the
situation within the Republican caucus at the time.  As part of labeling Gingrich a lobbyist, Romney criticized
him for meeting with Republican lawmakers in 2003 to encourage
them to vote for a Medicare prescription drug benefit, even as
he had health-care companies as clients.  “I have always publicly favored a stronger Medicare
program,” Gingrich said in response.  “You can call it whatever you’d like; I call it influence
peddling,” Romney said. “It is not right. You have a conflict.
You are being paid by companies at the same time you’re
encouraging people to pass legislation which is in their
favor.”  ‘Real Problem’  Romney added: “This is a real problem if we’re going to
nominate someone who not only had a record of great distress as
the speaker but then has worked for 15 years lobbying.”  Romney had said in a Jan. 19 debate that, if he could do
one thing differently in his campaign, he would spend less time
attacking his opponents and more time talking about President
 Barack Obama . Asked about his reversal on that front, Romney
said he had no choice.  “I learned something from the last contest in  South
Carolina ,” Romney said. “I’m not going to sit back and get
attacked day in and day out without returning fire.”  The two leading Republican presidential contenders are
fighting to win  Florida ’s primary after Gingrich’s victory in
South Carolina’s Jan. 21 contest shook up the race, depriving
Romney of his front-runner status.  The sparring between Romney and Gingrich dominated the
debate. Former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania 
disputed the notion that the nomination will fall to one of
them.  “Any type of prediction is going to be wrong,” said
Santorum. “The idea that this was a two-person race has been an
idea that has been in fashion now for eight months, and it’s
been wrong about eight times.”  Tax Returns  Romney said there would be “no surprises” in personal tax
documents his campaign released today.  “The real question is not so much my taxes, but the taxes
of the American people,” he said.  The documents showed Romney earned $21.6 million in 2010
and paid 13.9 percent of that amount in income taxes, using the
preferential rate on investment income and charitable deductions
to pay a smaller share of earnings than top wage earners
typically do.  Romney had been criticized by Gingrich during the South
Carolina campaign for wanting to delay until April any release
of tax information. Returns Gingrich released Jan. 19 showed he
and his wife had a gross income of $3.1 million in 2010 and paid
a tax rate of 31.6 percent.  Romney said last night he isn’t concerned that his wealth
would be a liability in a general election.  ‘Old-Fashioned Way’  “I was surprised to see people in the  Republican Party 
pick up the weapons of the left and start using them to attack
free enterprise,” he said. “What I was able to build, I built
the old-fashioned way, by earning it, by working hard.”  On an issue of special concern in Florida, Romney and
Gingrich both criticized Obama for not encouraging Cubans who
want to overthrow  Fidel Castro .  “This president has taken a very dangerous course with
regards to Cuba, saying we’re going to relax relations,” Romney
said. “This is the wrong time for that.”  The U.S. policy should be “aggressively to overthrow the
regime,” Gingrich said.  Romney said if he heard of Castro’s death, his first step
would be to “thank heavens that Fidel Castro has returned to
his maker.” Gingrich said Castro wouldn’t be meeting his maker
and instead would be going to “the other place.”  Paul took the chance to emphasize his non-interventionist
foreign policy, saying he would choose an opposite course and
open up the lines of communication with Cuba.  “I think we’re living in the dark ages when we can’t even
talk to the Cuban people,” Paul said.  The debate was sponsored by NBC News, the National Journal,
the Tampa Bay Times and the nonprofit business organization, the
Florida Council of 100. The 18th debate in the Republican
contest was moderated by NBC’s  Brian Williams .  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Tampa at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Kristin Jensen in  Washington  at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  