-- Romney Should Showcase Leadership and End Carried Interest: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-24T00:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/romney-should-showcase-leadership-and-end-carried-interest-tax-break-view.html
Mitt Romney  shouldn’t apologize for
being successful. Nor, for that matter, should any American. On
this we agree with the founder of private-equity firm Bain
Capital LLC and Republican presidential candidate.  That doesn’t mean there isn’t a valuable discussion to be
had about whether he and others owe some of their success to
distortions in the tax code that tilt the playing field and need
leveling.  Romney has already brought that discussion to the fore by
disclosing that he pays an effective tax rate of about 15
percent, largely on income from Bain. The release of two years
of his tax returns today will add kindling to the debate, as
will this evening’s State of the Union address by President
 Barack Obama , who is expected to call for a more equitable tax
code.  At issue for Romney is the ability of private-equity
executives -- and managers of real-estate, oil-and-gas, venture-
capital and other partnerships -- to classify their compensation
as carried interest, which is their share of investment returns.  Medicare Exemption  Carried interest is taxed at the low capital-gains rate of
15 percent, rather than at ordinary income rates, which are as
high as 35 percent. In addition, because it qualifies as a
capital gain, carried interest is exempt from the 2.9 percent
self-employment tax that funds Medicare, meaning that
beneficiaries receive as much as a 22.9 percentage-point tax
advantage over the vast majority of American wage earners,
according to a Bloomberg Government analysis. Ending the tax
break for people who manage money could generate more than $10
billion in  revenue  over 10 years.  The private-equity industry argues unconvincingly that the
capital-gains rate is appropriate for managers such as Romney
because they put their own money at risk. Opponents of the
carried-interest tax break point out, correctly, that private-
equity managers are eligible for that low rate on profit just
for managing other people’s money, regardless of whether they
themselves have any skin in the game. It’s worth noting that
workers in other financial sectors -- investment bankers and
portfolio managers -- pay ordinary rates on their income, even
though they perform essentially the same service for their
clients.  Warren Buffett , an outspoken opponent of carried interest
(along with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of  New York , the founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, and
 Rupert Murdoch , chairman of  News Corp .), told Bloomberg TV
yesterday that he doesn’t fault Romney for paying no more than
the law requires, and called on Congress to fix the inequity.
“He makes his money the same way I make my money,” Buffett
said, “by moving around big bucks, not by straining his back or
going to work and cleaning toilets or whatever it may be. He
makes it shoving around money.”  Americans don’t begrudge people doing well; they do,
however, begrudge unfair rules. Congress would do well to
overhaul a  tax code  that values the work of people who shove
around money more than the labor of janitors. Lawmakers have
tried to redress this imbalance at least four times since 2007.
All these efforts ended in failure, most recently last year,
when Obama included a proposal to eliminate the loophole as a
way to help pay for his jobs bill. Not coincidentally, private-
equity executives have been big contributors of campaign funds
to lawmakers of both parties, as well as to Obama and now to
Romney.  It is good news, then, that some in Congress are determined
to try again to do away with what amounts to a taxpayer subsidy
for a handful of people, who, by all accounts, are doing quite
well. Representative  Sander Levin , the top Democrat on the tax-
writing House Ways and Means Committee, announced he would
introduce a bill in coming weeks. Levin’s  proposal  will probably
be a slightly recast version of one that has previously passed
the House as part of broader measures, only to be stripped out
of final legislation in the Senate.  Simple Fix  Uncharacteristically for tax legislation, it’s quite
simple: Executives of investment services partnerships will be
eligible for the capital-gains rate only on profit they can
demonstrate was accrued from a  capital investment  they
themselves made. Their share of the profit they make for
investors will be taxed as ordinary income.  There probably will be hue and cry that the change could
discourage investment. It’s difficult to see how this would be
so: The tax increase would affect only the managers of these
partnerships, not their investors, who would still be taxed at
the  lower rate  on the capital they put in.  We agree with Buffett that Romney has done nothing wrong in
claiming the 15 percent tax rate. But  Romney , by using this
opportunity to call for the end of the carried-interest
loophole, could in one swoop neutralize an issue that has
hampered his campaign and display the leadership he says he
would bring to the White House. In an election year dominated by
the twin issues of the deficit and income inequality, this
proposal is one both parties, and their candidates, should
embrace.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 