-- Romney Reports Income From Funds at Goldman, Golden Gate
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-01-25T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/romney-reports-income-from-funds-at-goldman-sachs-golden-gate.html
Mitt Romney’s $21.6 million of
income in 2010 included profits from elite funds run by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Golden Gate Capital Corp., illustrating how
one of America’s wealthiest presidential candidates has
diversified his private-equity fueled fortune.  Trusts set up for Romney and his wife held investments in
 Goldman Sachs US$ Liquid Reserves (GSUSLPA)  Fund and a Golden Gate Capital
fund, as well as a Credit Suisse Group AG-backed collateralized-
debt obligation, according to  tax returns  released yesterday by
his campaign. Romney, who stepped down as head of private-equity
firm Bain Capital LLC in 1999, also owns a stake in a buyout
fund started by the Boston-based company in 2008.  The disclosures by the Republican candidate, who initially
resisted calls to release his tax returns, underscore how
wealthy individuals can derive large portions of their income
from investments not open to ordinary Americans. More than 30
percent of his adjusted gross income in 2010 came from carried
interest, or his cut of investment profits from Bain, according
to Ben Ginsberg, national counsel for the Romney campaign.
Carried interest is taxed at 15 percent, compared with the 35
percent top rate for ordinary income.  “Individual private-equity investors, like Romney, that
have high annual income as well as big balance sheets have the
ability to lock up their money for long periods of time,” said
Jon Goldstein, co-chief executive officer in  Menlo Park ,
 California , of Constellation Wealth Advisors, which manages
money for wealthy clients.  $5 Million Threshold  Goldman Sachs US$ Liquid Reserves (GSUSLPA)  is $26 billion fund
domiciled in Dublin that invests in high-quality money-market
securities, according to the New York-based firm’s website.
 Golden Gate  is a San Francisco-based private-equity firm whose
investments include California Pizza Kitchen and Eddie Bauer.
The firm has $12 billion in committed capital under management,
according to its website.  Individuals usually need to meet a net worth threshold of
at least $5 million to qualify as an investor in these kinds of
funds, Goldstein said. The net worth of the 64-year-old Romney
is between $190 million and $250 million, according to an
estimate from his campaign. His tax rate in 2010 was 13.9
percent, reflecting the preferential treatment of carried
interest and dividends, another source of Romney’s income.  Romney’s 2010 income included $7.4 million in carried
interest, Ginsberg said. Romney, who started Bain, received $5.5
million in carried interest in 2011, when he earned an estimated
$20.9 million. Romney hasn’t taken a specific position during
this campaign on the  tax rate  on carried interest, which
President  Barack Obama  and many Democrats want to reverse.  LBO Ties  While he retired from Bain, Romney, his family and trusts
managed on their behalf continue to have stakes in funds managed
by Bain. That means they have ties to some of the massive
takeovers by private-equity firms in the past decade, when nine
of the 10 largest leveraged buyouts occurred. Bain participated
in acquisitions of companies including doughnut retailer Dunkin
Brands Inc. to Toys R Us Inc., as well as hospital operator HCA
Inc., which for a short time was the largest LBO on record.  The Romneys’ relationship with Bain continued through its
most recent  Bain Capital  Fund X. Bain finished raising that $10
billion pool in 2008 and used it to buy broadcaster Clear
Channel Communications Inc., cable network The Weather Channel
and children’s retailer Gymboree.  Republican Attacks  Candidates vying with Romney for the Republican nomination
have sought to portray his work at Bain as destructive to the
economy because its tactics at times involve firing workers and
shutting plants. Former candidate  Rick Perry , the Texas
governor, said companies like Bain are “just vultures sitting
out there on the tree limb waiting for the company to get
sick.”  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, has repeatedly
said Bain created more than 100,000 jobs during his tenure
there, citing success stories like Staples Inc. and Sports
Authority Inc.  Wealthy individuals invest in private equity and hedge
funds in an effort to outperform returns available in public
markets, a feature that firms frequently highlight when
marketing. Bain Capital’s first six funds produced an average
annual return of 81.9 percent on realized investments through
2003, before accounting for fees, according to marketing
documents obtained by Bloomberg News.  Like its peers, Bain Capital’s record suffered after the
buyout boom when firms raised record amounts of money. Bain X is
generating a negative average annual rate of return of 0.3
percent as of June 30, according to researcher Preqin Ltd. in
 London . That compares with a positive return of 8.5 percent for
the median buyout fund raised in the same year.  31 Bain Funds  There were 31 Bain-related funds that generated income in
2010 for Ann Romney’s blind trust or Mitt Romney’s individual
retirement account, according to the candidate’s latest
financial disclosure form.  Private-equity funds are structured as partnerships usually
lasting 10 years or more. The funds pool money from pensions,
endowments, government funds and wealthy individuals, then
combine that money with debt to take over companies.  Private-equity managers seek to increase the value of the
firms through a mix of cost cuts, expansion and acquisitions
with the aim of selling the company or taking it public several
years later. They distribute the profits to their investors,
keeping the carried interest portion for themselves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 Jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  