-- Rupee Climbs to Two-Month High as RBI Holds Interest Rate: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-01-24T12:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/rupee-climbs-to-two-month-high-before-interest-rate-decision-mumbai-mover.html
India ’s rupee rose past 50 a dollar
for the first time since November as the central bank left
borrowing costs unchanged today to support economic growth.  The  Reserve Bank  of India kept its benchmark rate at 8.50
percent, as predicted by all 21 economists in a Bloomberg News
 survey . The central bank cut the cash-reserve ratio for banks to
5.5 percent from 6 percent. That will be interpreted as monetary
easing and boost foreign investors’ purchases of local assets,
according to Vikas Babu, a currency trader at state-owned  Andhra
Bank .  “Traders are bullish on the expectation of inflows,”
Mumbai-based Babu said.  The rupee was little changed at 50.0675 per dollar in
Mumbai, compared with 50.0825 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It rose as much as 0.3 percent to 49.9250
earlier, the strongest level since Nov. 14.  Foreign funds boosted  holdings  of Indian debt by $3.4
billion this month through Jan. 20 to $29.4 billion and
investments in stocks rose by $1.4 billion, exchange data show.  Brazil ,  China  and Russia have either cut borrowing costs or
reduced lenders’ reserve requirements in recent weeks as the
debt crisis in  Europe  saps global expansion. While central banks
take steps to support their economies and currencies,
developments in Europe will play a key role in determining the
outlook, according to Andhra Bank’s Babu.  ‘Fragile’ Sentiment  The rupee fell 16 percent in 2011, the worst performance
among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded currencies. It has rebounded 6
percent this year to be the region’s biggest gainer on central
bank intervention, regulatory changes and better global risk
appetite, according to Brown Brothers Harriman and Co.  “The Reserve Bank took a number of steps to stimulate
capital inflows and curb speculation, besides also intervening
in the market consistent with its policy of containing
volatility and preventing disruptive movements,” according to a
policy  document  issued by the monetary authority today. The bank
“continues to closely monitor” external developments and
“will take action, as appropriate.”  Three-month onshore forwards traded at 51.14 a dollar
compared with 51.12 yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Offshore forwards traded at 51.08, compared with
51.19 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets
at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled
in dollars.  “We think that sentiment remains fragile and frontloading
rate cuts will only make the RBI’s life harder should it have to
step in to defend the rupee once again,” Ilan Solot, an
emerging-markets currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman
in  London , wrote in a report published yesterday. “We don’t
think the underlying fundamentals have shifted that much in
2012, so we remain skeptical that the rupee’s outperformance can
continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 