-- Russian Industry Expands at Slowest Pace Since October 2009
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-01-24T12:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/russian-industry-expands-at-slowest-pace-since-october-2009.html
Russian industrial production slowed
more than forecast in December to its lowest level since October
2009 because of concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis would curb
demand for exports.  Output at factories, mines and utilities advanced 2.5
percent from a year earlier, slowing from a 3.9 percent increase
the previous month, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow
said today in an e-mailed statement. The median estimate of 11
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for growth of 3.4 percent.  “Expectations for demand are fairly moderate, and for now
companies have been cautious about increasing inventories,”
Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for Russia and  Kazakhstan  at ING
Groep NV in Moscow, said by phone before the release. “Given
the generally negative news about a second wave of the crisis,
expectations for industry and demand likely continued to
worsen.”  Russian economic growth may slow this year after exceeding
the government’s initial forecast in 2011, Deputy Economy
Minister  Andrei Klepach  said last month. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who is seeking to return to the presidency in a March 4
vote, is targeting growth of at least 6 percent annually to help
turn Russian into one of the world’s five largest economies.  Output at mines advanced 1.8 percent in December, up from
1.3 percent the previous month, the service said. Growth in
production at manufacturers slowed to 3.3 percent from an
increase of 4.9 percent in November, while output at utilities
dropped 5.1 percent after expanding 3.2 percent the previous
month.  Industrial output for the full year grew 4.7 percent, the
statistics service said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  