-- Saul Alinsky Rides Again as Gingrich Makes Him 2012 Bogeyman in Campaign
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-01-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/saul-alinsky-rides-again-as-gingrich-makes-him-republican-race-s-bogeyman.html
Saul Alinsky has been dead for
almost 40 years, yet the community organizer is back for another
presidential campaign. This time he’s been dragged from his
grave by Republican candidate  Newt Gingrich , who says the
Chicago activist’s “radicalism is at the heart of Obama.”  Alinsky is a forefather of modern-day Chicago politics
whose organizing practices are still taught on college campuses.
Though he isn’t a household name even in his hometown, since the
2008 campaign he’s been Republican shorthand for radical 
political thought -- part of a lineup including Jeremiah Wright, 
 Barack Obama ’s former pastor, and Bill Ayers, who co-founded the
Weather Underground decades before he served with Obama
on the board of an education-reform group.  Gingrich invoked Alinsky’s name in his victory speech Jan.
21 after winning the South Carolina primary, seeking to portray
President Obama, who worked as an organizer in  Chicago 's public
housing projects, as part of the fringe.  “The centerpiece of this campaign, I believe, is American
exceptionalism versus the radicalism of Saul Alinsky,” Gingrich
said in the speech.  While the former House speaker sought to draw that
distinction, the spirit of Alinsky’s teachings have in fact 
been embraced by a powerful new voting bloc that Gingrich is
trying to attract, said  Dick Simpson , a  University of Illinois  
at Chicago political scientist and former alderman.  Tea Party  Echo  “The Tea Party comes from the same sense of outrage that
the elites, as Gingrich calls them, are running the country,”
Simpson said. “The Tea Party has understood how to mobilize
their anger and turn it to political results, which is the
underlying motif of Alinsky.”  Simpson called him “a master community organizer who
attempted to organize people without power, people that today
we’d call the 99 percent, by using the strength of numbers to
overcome clout and wealth.”  Alinsky was born in Chicago in 1909 to Russian immigrant 
parents. He worked his way through the  University of Chicago ,
majoring in archeology. He did postgraduate work in criminology
before quitting to become a community organizer.  Alinsky shunned political-party identification in a city
famed for its Democratic machine, pouring his efforts instead
into organizing residents of Chicago’s slums. He later helped
establish black neighborhood groups in Oakland,  California .  Taking Power  “Rules for Radicals: A Pragmatic Primer for Realistic
Radicals,” which Alinsky published in 1971, sought to empower
the disenfranchised.  “What follows is for those who want to change the world
from what it is to what they believe it should be,” wrote
Alinsky, who died in 1972. ```The Prince' was written by
Machiavelli for the Haves on how to hold power. ‘Rules for
Radicals’ is written for the Have-Nots on how to take it
away.'''  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , as a student at
 Wellesley College  in 1969, wrote her undergraduate thesis on
Alinsky and his organizing model.  “It is far easier to cope with a man if, depending on
ideological perspective, he is classified as a ‘crackpot’ than
to grapple with the substantive issues he presents,” Clinton,
then Hillary Rodham, wrote in her thesis. “For Saul Alinsky is
more than a man who has created a particular approach to
community organizing, he is the articulate proponent of what
many consider to be a dangerous socio/political philosophy.”  His legacy endures. “Early to bed, early to rise, work like
hell and organize,” is a phrase frequently used by   Pat Quinn , 
 Illinois 's Democratic governor and a former community activist.  “Saul Alinsky is as American as apple pie,” said John McCarron, an urban-affairs writer and adjunct professor of
journalism at DePaul University in Chicago.  Spanning the Spectrum  “It’s a name they can associate with radicalism,”
McCarron said, though he added that Alinsky addressed
frustrations with political power that span the ideological
spectrum.  “People don’t feel the government represents them, so they
want to create a new center of activity,” he said, “and that’s
what Saul Alinsky is all about.”  Editors: Flynn McRoberts, Stephen Merelman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg58.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  