-- Scene Last Night: Clarkson for Kids, Dratch for Afghan Women
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-01-24T14:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/scene-last-night-clarkson-for-kids-dratch-for-afghan-women.html
Actress Patricia Clarkson’s
technique for reading to children: “Be very bright and very
fast,” she said last night at the  Hale House Center  Winter Fete
at Crown, which she hosted. “ Woody Allen  gave me the same
advice.”  Clarkson reads children’s books at the Mother Hale Learning
Center in Harlem, a daycare and preschool program operated by
Hale House Center.  “The kids love her, they ask her lots of questions” said
Joyce Lopez-Cristescu, program coordinator, Mother Hale Learning
Center.  “Improvisation is key,” Clarkson added before rejoining a
huddle of guests at the bar, including Alexandra Lebenthal,
chief executive officer of Lebenthal & Co., and Elissa Lumley,
who runs communications at  J. Christopher Capital , the firm
behind the retail chain C. Wonder. Meanwhile a mustached
bartender stirred up a Tom Collins made with Hangar One spiced
pear-infused vodka.  The story of how Clarkson came to host the Winter Fete
begins at the  Chateau Marmont  in Hollywood.  “I spotted her in the lobby,” said Frederick Anderson,
the businessman behind the woman’s dress label  Douglas Hannant .
“We knew each other because Douglas had dressed her for some
awards shows. She was reading a script.”  Anderson took her up to the balcony room over the garden,
where Hannant was showing his latest collection. He also checked
his BlackBerry, and made a comment about all the e-mails he was
getting from Hale House Center, where he volunteers as a
fundraiser. To his delight, he learned that Clarkson was already
reading to children there. That’s when he asked her to host an
event.  “I still have a stupid life,” Clarkson said. “but I do
the best I can to give back and make something better.”  ‘Blue Burqua’  In an industrial space turned theater in Sunset Park,
 Brooklyn , former “Saturday Night Live” cast member Rachel
Dratch and other female comedians read poems by women from
 Afghanistan . An  excerpt  from “The Blue Cage” by Arifa:  Who am I under the blue burqa?  A mother who always suffers?  A sister who lost her brother?  A wife who lost her husband? ...  Don’t look at me. I can’t help my country.  I am a prisoner under the blue burqua.  The Sunday event, “Comedians for Change,” held at Magic
Futurebox, raised money for the Afghan Women’s Writing Project,
which leads online workshops in prose and poetry for Afghan
women.  “Being able to write their stories is the first step
toward having power,” Dratch said.  Dratch’s memoir, “Girl Walks Into a Bar,” comes out in
April. “I started writing because I wasn’t getting any acting
jobs,” she said. “Then I got surprise pregnant and I knew I
had a book.” (Dratch’s son, Eli, is now a year and half old.)
The book deals with life after “Saturday Night Live,” focusing
on becoming a mother at the age of 44.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 