-- Scorsese’s ‘Hugo’ Tops Oscar Nominations With 11, Including Best Picture
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-24T17:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/scorsese-s-hugo-gets-11-oscar-nominations-the-artist-10.html
“Hugo,”  Martin Scorsese ’s first
3-D movie, was nominated for 11 Oscars, including best picture
and best director, as Hollywood prepared to honor its top 2011
films.  Brad Pitt  and  George Clooney  will vie for best actor.  “The Artist,” the tribute to the silent-picture era,
received 10 nominations, including best film and best director,
the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences said today at a
news conference in  Beverly Hills ,  California . In all, nine
pictures were nominated for the top Oscar.  “This gives us a horse race,” said Academy President Tom Sherak, who announced the finalists with  Jennifer Lawrence , a
nominee for best actress last year for her role in the drama
“Winter’s Bone.”  Best-picture nominations and the publicity that follows
boost box-office and home-video sales for Oscar contenders.
Ticket sales for last year’s winner, “The King’s Speech” rose
41 percent on the first weekend after the film was nominated.
The annual awards show, scheduled for Feb. 26 on ABC, attracted
37.9 million viewers last year to rank as the most-watched
single, non-sports telecast, according to  Nielsen .  In addition to “Hugo” and “The Artist,” best-picture
nominees included “The Descendants,” “Extremely Loud &
Incredibly Close,” “The Help,” “Midnight in Paris,”
“Moneyball,” “The Tree of Life,” and “War Horse.”  “The studios increase their marketing efforts and people
really do respond to the buzz,” said  Agata Kaczanowska ,
entertainment analyst for  Santa Monica , California-based
IbisWorld, an industry researcher.  Studio Winners  Counting feature-length films with two or more nominations,
 Sony (6758)  Pictures Entertainment led with 17, including six for
“Moneyball,” and five for “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo.”
 Paramount Pictures , owned by Viacom Inc., and Weinstein Co. tied
for second with 14 each.  From 2006 to 2010, best-picture winners on average had
$57.2 million in box-office sales heading into the nominations
and $42.9 million afterward, Kaczanowska said in an interview
before the announcement. Runners-up averaged about $90 million
at the box office, with roughly 20 percent following the
nominations and the awards telecast.  Academy members can nominate from five to 10 movies for
best picture under new rules announced in June. The actual
number for this year wasn’t known until today’s announcement.  Best Actors  The nominees for best actor are Demián Bechir, for “A
Better Life,” Clooney for “The Descendants,” Jean Dujardin
for “The Artist,”  Gary Oldman  for “Tinker Tailor Soldier
Spy” and Pitt for “Moneyball.”  The best actress nominees are Glenn Close for “Albert
Nobbs,” Viola Davis for “The Help,” Rooney Mara for “The
Girl With the Dragon Tattoo,” Meryl Streep for “The Iron
Lady” and Michelle Williams for “My Week With Marilyn.”  “Hugo,” from Paramount, tells the story of an orphaned
boy who lives secretly within the walls and clock tower of a
train station. The film stars Asa Butterfield, Chloe Grace
Moretz and  Ben Kingsley . Scorsese captured the Golden Globe
directing award this month for his effort.  “The Artist,” silent and in black and white, focuses on
an actor whose career is threatened by the advent of talking
pictures and the affection of a young dancer working toward her
big break. The picture, which won three Golden Globe awards this
month, features Dujardin, Bérénice Bejo and John Goodman.  Michel Hazanavicius directed and Weinstein distributed in
the U.S. The film, made for about $15 million, has collected
$33.2 million in ticket sales worldwide as of Jan. 22, according
to Box Office Mojo, an industry researcher.  ‘Moneyball’  The nominations for “Moneyball” included one for Jonah
Hill in a supporting role. Hill plays the computer nerd who
helps Billy Beane, the budget-constrained manager of the Oakland
A’s baseball team played by Pitt, to find the players who can
make his team a contender.  “War Horse” collected six nominations. Directed by  Steven Spielberg , the film tells the story of a horse that is sold to
the cavalry during World War I and his young owner who later
joins the military. The movie, distributed by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,
is based on the novel by Michael Morpurgo. Jeremy Irvine, Tom
Hiddleston and Benedict Cumberbatch star.  In “The Descendants,” with five nominations, Clooney
plays an indifferent father who attempts to connect with his
daughters and manage the affairs of his extended Hawaiian family
after a boating accident leaves his wife comatose. The film,
from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Searchlight, captured two Golden Globes,
for best film drama and a best actor award for Clooney.  Hollywood’s Tough Year  The nominations come against the backdrop of a tough year
at home for Hollywood, with theater attendance falling to 16-
year low in 2011 and spending on home video shrinking 2.1
percent, according to Hollywood.com and the Digital
Entertainment Group, a studio-backed trade association.  Actor-comedian  Billy Crystal  will host the ABC telecast. He
was named to headline the program in November, replacing  Eddie Murphy , who withdrew after the producer he was working with,
 Brett Ratner , quit the show.  “We’ve got Billy Crystal, who’s incredibly organized,”
 Brian Grazer , co-producer of the telecast, said in an interview.
“We brought him on because what he does is satisfy the
audience. He’s going to do what he does.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  