-- Scots Independence Cost May Beat Oil Cash Nationalists Seek
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-01-24T10:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/scots-independence-cost-may-exceed-oil-money-nationalists-claim.html
Ever since oil was discovered in the
North Sea off the British coast in December 1969, the  Scottish
National Party  claimed it for  Scotland .  Now in power and closer than ever to a referendum on
whether to break from the U.K. after more than 300 years, the
SNP government in Edinburgh led by Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond is counting on tax revenue from the oil industry as a
key pillar of the economy along with financial services.  “We’re talking about quite a significant cash bonanza, but
one that’s subject to considerable uncertainty,” David Bell,
professor of economics at  Stirling University  and the budget
adviser to the Scottish Parliament’s finance committee, said in
an interview. “It’s not quite a get-out-of-jail-free card.”  Oil prices have fluctuated by at least 30 percent in 12 of
the last 23 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. From
2005 to 2010, oil and gas revenue accounted for 6.8 percent to
10.8 percent of the Scottish economy, said Malcolm Barr,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chief U.K. economist.  More than 40 billion barrels of oil equivalent, a measure
used to include gas, have been extracted from the U.K.
Continental Shelf, attracting investment of 468 billion pounds
($729 billion), according to  Oil & Gas U.K. , the body that
represents about 200 companies operating in the offshore
industry. Between 1980 and March this year that will have
generated tax revenue of more than 166 billion pounds, according
to Bloomberg calculations from  Office for National Statistics 
and Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs data.  Talking Points  At current production levels, the U.K. is the third-largest
oil producer in  Europe , behind Russia and  Norway , and the
fourth-largest gas producer with  Russia , the Netherlands and
Norway ranked higher, according to the  BP Statistical Review of
World Energy  published in June.  What will have to be decided should Scotland vote to leave
the U.K. is how much of the remaining oil is Scotland’s based on
maritime borders and what the associated tax revenues will fund.
The oil was discovered off Scotland’s east coast.  Salmond has said the vote on independence will take place
in the fall of 2014, while U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
his government want it earlier.  “The key argument which would have to be settled is where
the line would be drawn,” Alex Kemp, an economics professor at
Aberdeen University and author of a history of  North Sea  oil,
said in an interview. “There are always some complications.”  Fishing Borders  Using the existing fishing management line that demarcates
the English and Scottish fisheries would give Scotland about 95
percent of the oil and 58 percent of the gas based on 2010
production figures, Kemp said. His model shows 90 percent of
industry falling in the Scottish part, he said.  The SNP government, which has said it would have financed
everything from bank bailouts to pensions with oil revenue,
accepts Kemp’s figure, John Swinney, the Scottish finance
minister, said in an interview.  “That’s an assessment formulated not by the Scottish
government but by probably the most significant petroleum
analyst and we would accept that as a reflection of the current
situation,” Swinney said in  London  on Jan. 16 after a meeting
with  Alexander Yakovenko , the Russian ambassador to the U.K.  Running Scotland  Opinion polls show increasing support in Scotland for
independence, though still a minority in the country has
declared an intention to vote for it.  Scotland has had control over such things as health,
education, justice and transportation since the re-establishment
of the Scottish legislature in 1999, while the U.K. Parliament
at Westminster in London retains power over macro-economic
affairs, defense and immigration policy.  Based on 90 percent of the oil and gas revenue, Scotland
would have received about 10 billion pounds of the 11.1 billion
pounds forecast for the current fiscal year that ends in March.
That would be equal to 36 percent of the Scottish government’s
 budget  of 28 billion pounds for the current fiscal year.  That budget, allocated from the U.K. Treasury, accounts for
about 60 percent of all  government spending  in Scotland. On that
basis, oil revenue would meet about 21 percent of spending. It
wouldn’t cover expenditure on health or local government. The
SNP also plans to set up a Scotland Futures Fund modeled on the
Norwegian Petroleum Fund.  Wealth Fund  “It’s difficult to see how you’d be able to maintain
current spending and set up a sovereign wealth fund,” Bell
said. “Oil is a good answer up to a point. It’s hard to see how
it would allow us to substantially increase spending.”  Over the past five years, an independent Scotland with
control of oil and gas revenue would have had a budget surplus
of 7.5 billion pounds, Salmond said in an interview on Jan. 20.  The revenue could alternatively be invested to encourage
growth in the economy now, said Salmond, who will publish a
referendum consultation document tomorrow on the day Scots
commemorate the birth of  Robert Burns , their best-known poet.  “It would increase the opportunity for economic
flexibility,” Salmond said. “The aim and intention would be to
benefit the Scottish economy and Scottish people.”  In the 2008-2009 financial year, when oil prices reached a
record,  tax revenue  from North Sea oil was 12.9 billion pounds
before falling by almost half the following year to 6.5 billion
pounds and then rising to 8.8 billion in 2010-2011, data from
HMRC show.  Production Cuts  U.K. oil production more than halved between 1999, when it
peaked, and 2010, according to Department of Energy and Climate
Change  data . Since then, the price has more than quadrupled.  “A newly independent Scotland would need to see a large
improvement in its fiscal position to insulate itself from
swings in tax revenues coming from the price of oil,”
JPMorgan’s Barr said in a note to clients on Jan. 20.  The forecast for North Sea oil revenue was reduced by 2.3
billion pounds in November by the tax authority because of the
higher-than-expected drop in production.  What’s more, how much of the remaining oil and gas reserves
is extracted will depend on how much is invested in the
development of more efficient technology, as well as the
taxation and licensing regime and  oil prices .  On current estimates, there is somewhere between 14 billion
barrels and 24 billion barrels of oil equivalent still to be
extracted over the next 30 years, Oil & Gas U.K.’s  2011 Economic
Report  said. In the event of independence, how that would be
split with England also would be up for negotiation.  New Fields  “The higher the oil price, the more new fields are
developed, there is more exploration and more discoveries,” he
said by telephone from Aberdeen, Scotland’s oil hub.  There were  14 exploration wells  drilled last year, the
 lowest since 1965 , while the number of appraisal wells drilled,
28, was the lowest since 2003, the Department for Energy and
Climate Change said Jan. 13. The drilling projects were about
half what had been expected at the start of the year after a
surprise tax change by the U.K. government, said Mike Tholen,
economics director for Oil & Gas U.K.  Instead of production falling by 5 percent in 2011, the
estimate at the start of the year, a decline of 15 percent to 17
percent is more likely, Tholen said. That’s about double the 7
percent average annual drop in the previous four years, he said.  “It’s appalling,” Tholen said in an interview. “You have
to keep investing to keep producing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  