-- SEC Asks Federal Judge to Order SIPC Payout Plan for Stanford Investors
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-25T01:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/sec-asks-federal-judge-to-order-sipc-payout-plan-for-stanford-investors.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission urged a judge to order the federal Securities
Investor Protection Corp. to create a claims process for R. Allen Stanford’s alleged investment fraud victims.  SEC lawyers asked U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins during
a hearing today in Washington to require SIPC, a nonprofit
corporation funded by the brokerage industry, to start a
liquidation proceeding in federal court in  Texas  to handle more
than $1 billion in possible claims related to the alleged
Stanford fraud.  “Ultimately, what we’re seeking here is to provide a forum
where claimants can seek judicial review of their claims,”
Matthew Martens, the SEC’s chief litigator, told the judge
during a three-hour hearing.  At issue is whether more than 7,000 brokerage customers who
invested in the alleged $7 billion Ponzi scheme run by Stanford
are entitled to have their losses covered by SIPC.  SIPC, a congressionally chartered group that insures
customers against losses caused by broker theft, says the
Stanford investments don’t fit into the confines of the federal
law that governs who’s eligible for the payouts. Investors and
their advocates in Congress say SIPC is deliberately taking a
narrow view of the law to protect brokers from higher
assessments.  ‘Proof of Customers’  “There has to be proof of customers to start a
liquidation,” Eugene Assaf, a lawyer for SIPC, argued today.  Assaf, of  Kirkland & Ellis LLP  in Washington, said the SEC
was trying to open a liquidation proceeding in Texas without any
judicial review of whether the Stanford investors are
“customers” under the law. He asked Wilkins to require the SEC
to refile its lawsuit, allow the parties to seek discovery and
then decide whether the Stanford investors are covered by the
Securities Investor Protection Act.  “This is our only opportunity to convince the court
whether a liquidation should be ordered or not,” said Assaf,
adding that a liquidation proceeding would cause significant
expense for SIPC.  Martens told Wilkins that a SIPC-appointed trustee and the
U.S. bankruptcy court in Texas would be responsible for
reviewing whether individual claimants qualified for payouts.  ‘Under Advisement’  Wilkins said he would take the matter “under advisement”
and issue a ruling “as soon as I can.”  Stanford allegedly used his brokerage to entice investors
to buy high-interest certificates of deposit through his private
Stanford International Bank Ltd. in Antigua. Instead, according
to prosecutors, much of the money was used to support Stanford’s
businesses and lifestyle.  Opening statements in Stanford’s criminal trial began today
in Houston.  Stanford, 61, was the ringleader of a $7 billion investment
fraud, the U.S. said in a 14-count indictment accusing him of
mail fraud and  wire fraud , crimes that carry maximum sentences
of 20 years in prison. He’s also charged with conspiracy to
commit mail fraud and wire fraud and to obstruct an SEC probe.  “I plead not guilty to every count,” Stanford, wearing a
light gray plaid suit and a white dress shirt and no necktie,
told the jury today.  ‘Lie After Lie’  Stanford stole from investors “so that he could live the
lifestyle of a billionaire,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregg
Costa said in his opening statement. “He told them lie after
lie after lie.”  In the defense’s opening remarks, Robert Scardino, one of
Stanford’s court-appointed lawyers, told the jury: “Mr.
Stanford’s financial empire was real and did make a
lot of money and did pay every penny of what was owed to
depositors for 22 years.”  In June, the SEC ordered SIPC to start a process that could
grant as much as $500,000 for each Stanford client -- the same
maximum amount it offers in any case. After SIPC balked, the SEC
for the first time sued the group in federal court in
 Washington .  SIPC is responsible for providing coverage for individual
investors who lose money or securities held by insolvent or
failing member brokerage firms. It has agreed to cover losses
sustained by victims of Bernard Madoff’s multibillion-dollar
Ponzi scheme and investors who may have lost money in the
October collapse of commodities broker  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)   SIPC may be best known for its logo, which dues-paying
brokerage firms put on their marketing materials to show
customers they’re protected. Unlike the protection that the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. gives to bank accounts, SIPC
doesn’t run a general insurance fund or cover investment losses.
Under the Securities Investor Protection Act, it’s supposed to
aid investors when their securities or cash are stolen or go
missing.  Offshore Banks  SIPC doesn’t guarantee an investment’s value or protect
against fraud, the agency said in court papers. It also doesn’t
cover investments with offshore banks or non-member firms.  Stephen Harbeck , SIPC’s president, has said that SIPC
shouldn’t get involved because investors received actual CDs
after the brokerage passed their money to a bank. What happened
after that isn’t under SIPC’s purview because the Stanford
account holders have possession of their securities, he told a
court-appointed receiver in 2009.  The SEC eventually decided that there was no true
separation between Stanford’s bank and the brokerage firm.
Customers who made investments with the bank were effectively
depositing money with the brokerage and should get SIPC
coverage, the SEC said.  Martens told Wilkins today that the SEC has full authority
over SIPC, which is why the judge should enforce the SEC’s order
to begin the liquidation proceeding.  U.S. Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican whose
state is home to many Stanford investors, asked SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  in a Capitol hearing last month to sue SIPC.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Securities Investor Protection Corp., 11-mc-00678, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 