-- Ex-Yahoo Chief Terry Semel Invests in Digital Movie Distributor SnagFilms
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/semel-invests-in-digital-film-distributor-snagfilms-joins-board.html
Former  Yahoo Inc. (YHOO)  and  Warner Bros .
Chairman Terry Semel joined the board of SnagFilms Inc., adding
Hollywood and Silicon Valley buzz to the startup distributor of
movies online and to cable providers such as  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   Semel also made an investment in SnagFilms, according to
Rick Allen, chief executive officer of the company, which has
offices in Washington, New York and  Los Angeles . In an
interview, he declined to disclose the amount.  Semel will add expertise in Web distribution and
filmmaking, Allen said. SnagFilms, owner of rights to more than
3,000 feature films and documentaries, offers free viewing of
some titles on its website and also sells and rents pictures to
consumers through websites including  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iTunes and Vudu Inc., and through pay-per-view on cable.  “I know of no other individual who has, at the highest
levels of the industry, led a major studio and one of the
biggest Web companies,” Allen said.  Semel has already introduced SnagFilms executives to
filmmakers interested in the company’s distribution model, Allen
said. The company, founded in 2008, shares with filmmakers
revenue generated by pay-television sales and from advertising
on its free site, Allen said.  Semel is chairman and CEO of Windsor Media Inc., a company
he founded after leaving Yahoo in 2008. Before joining Yahoo in
2001 as chairman and CEO, Semel was chairman and co-CEO at
Warner Bros., a unit of  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)   SnagFilms, founded in 2008, focuses on movies that are
likely to have strong appeal to niche audiences, Allen said.
Titles include “Shadow Company,” about contract soldiers in
Iraq, and “The Secret Life of Cats.” The company has
applications to enable viewing on tablets, smart phones and
Internet-connected TVs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  