-- Siemens Financing Arm Doubles Profit, Luring Cash-Short Clients
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-01-24T11:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/siemens-financing-arm-doubles-profit-luring-cash-short-clients.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, almost doubled the profit generated by its
financial services unit, giving a boost to orders as it lured
customers struggling to secure funding for equipment.  Pretax profit from  Siemens Financial Services (SIE)  jumped 95
percent to 199 million euros ($260 million) in the quarter ended
Dec. 31., the Munich-based company said today. Return on equity
for the unit rose to 35.7 percent, surpassing a goal of 15
percent to 20 percent.  Tighter availability of credit means more customers are
looking to expand using project loans with Siemens, Chief
Financial Officer Joe Kaeser said today. That’s made the
financial services arm a bright spot among divisions that
include light bulbs, gas turbines, high-speed trains and medical
scanners. Profitability in the quarter fell at all of Siemens
four main businesses.  “We feel the effect in singular cases,” Siemens Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  told journalists at a quarterly
earnings briefing today, referring to the rise in financial
services.  Assets at Siemens Financial Services swelled 10 percent to
16.13 billion euros. Profit was helped by the sale of part of a
stake in Bangalore International Airport Ltd.  Siemens said on Sept. 29 its financing arm aims to double
business in the next five years and mop up extra clients as
banks cut lending to fend off Europe’s debt crisis. The unit
provides credit for projects such as power plants and hospitals,
and has been one of the German engineering company’s most
profitable businesses for years.  Assets could exceed 20 billion euros by 2016 compared with
12.5 billion euros in 2010, unit head Roland Chalons-Browne said
in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  