-- Siemens Shares Fall After Profit Misses Estimates: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-01-24T16:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/siemens-shares-fall-3-3-after-profit-misses-analyst-predictions.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  (SIE) declined by the most in
almost five months in  Frankfurt  trading after  Germany ’s largest
engineering company reported fiscal first-quarter earnings that
missed analysts’ estimates and cautioned that its profit targets
for the full year have become more challenging to reach.  Siemens, based in Munich, fell as much as 3.53 euros, or
4.5 percent, to 75 euros in Frankfurt, the biggest drop since
Sept. 5, and closed at 77.15 euros. The company has the  second-
biggest  weighting on Germany’s benchmark DAX 30 index, which
fell as much as 1.5 percent.  Siemens booked 203 million euros ($265 million) in charges
at its power transmission division amid delays in connecting
five offshore wind parks to the power grid, causing the unit to
post a loss. Siemens also had a loss at its renewable energy
division.  “There is some frustration in wind power,” Chief
Financial Officer Joe Kaeser said on a conference call. “It
runs through the whole company, it’s seen in renewable energy,
in power transmission, and in drives technology.”  Shares of  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  fell as much as 0.82 Swiss francs, or
4.1 percent, to 19.03 francs in Zurich on the back of Siemens’s
results, making them the worst performer in  Switzerland ’s
benchmark SMI index. ABB is the world’s largest maker of power-
transmission gear and one of Siemens’ closest competitors.  Siemens is betting on better business in the second half to
reach its goals for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, which call
for “moderate organic sales growth” and net income from
continuing operations of about 6 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  