-- Siemens ‘Must Work Hard’ Amid Debt Crisis
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-01-24T08:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/siemens-must-work-hard-amid-debt-crisis.html
Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest
engineering company, reported earnings that missed estimates as
profitability dropped at its four main units, and predicted that
Europe will slip into recession in the coming months.  Net income  from continuing operations fell 27 percent to
1.36 billion euros ($1.77 billion) in the fiscal first quarter,
Munich-based Siemens said in a statement today. That missed the
average estimate of 1.47 billion euros in a Bloomberg survey of
analysts. New orders also dropped, and Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Loescher  said making this year’s targets will be harder.  The European economy will encounter a “mild” contraction
in coming quarters, and Siemens will work to capture growth in
the U.S. and  emerging markets , where growth has held up,
Loescher said in an interview. Siemens is among the first major
industrial companies to report earnings for the final three
months of 2011, offering a glimpse into the health of global
demand with products spanning trains, power turbines, medical
scanners and factory automation gear.  “The numbers were softer on all metrics,” said Ingo- Martin Schachel, an analyst at Commerzbank in  Frankfurt .
“Siemens now needs a strong second half to reach its goals,
and the cyclical businesses must hold up."  Shares of Siemens fell 3.3 percent to 75.82 euros as of
9:04 a.m. in Frankfurt. That’s the biggest intraday slide since
Nov. 1.  Industry Scarred  The order intake in the three months through December fell
5 percent to 19.81 billion euros, the second consecutive
decline, while sales advanced 2 percent to 17.9 billion euros.
That compares with the average analyst estimate of 20.48 billion
euros for orders, and 18.27 billion euros for sales. Siemens
 generated  43 percent of its revenue in  Europe  last year, and 20
percent in the U.S.  ‘‘The uncertainties of the ongoing debt crisis have left
their mark on the real economy,” Loescher said. “Although a
recovery is expected in the second half of the year, we must
work hard to achieve our goals.”  For now, Siemens reiterated it expects “moderate organic
sales growth” this year, while order growth will outpace sales,
with net income from continuing operations of about 6 billion
euros. Siemens’s order backlog reached a record 102 billion
euros.  The German company, which added 3,000 workers in the
quarter, will “aggressively” drive growth through capital
expenditure, Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser said at a press
conference. Sales in the current quarter will rise moderately,
while profitability may be held back by charges for job cuts at
the company’s telecommunications venture with Nokia Oyj.  The company booked 203 million euros in charges at its
power transmission division amid delays in connecting five
offshore wind parks to the  power grid . It also booked 69 million
euros for delays of a German train order. Profitability at its
four main subsidiaries dropped in the quarter.  Purchase Plans  Profit at the  energy  businesses fell 36 percent to 481
million euros, as the renewable energy and the power
transmission units swung to losses. Renewable energy will post a
profit in the second quarter, CFO Kaeser said. Fossil power
generation increased profit by 22 percent to 580 million euros.  Earnings at the industry businesses declined 13 percent,
while profit fell 4 percent in health care. The infrastructure
unit that caters to cities and municipal clients, a division
that Siemens recently created, saw profit tumble 36 percent.  Orders for major equipment are becoming harder to secure,
while the so-called “early-cycle” business is holding up,
Loescher said. Siemens’s cash reserves are a bonus as clients
turn to solidly capitalized partners for financing, he said.  Acquisitions Hunt  Siemens may target bolt-on acquisitions, after multiples on
potential targets have become more attractive. Loescher has
 refrained  from major takeovers in recent years, and the company
was forced to write down the value of some acquisitions in areas
including health care and solar energy.  Siemens still expects to sell shares in its Osram lighting
unit, where sales grew 7 percent in the quarter, during the
calender year 2012, CFO Kaeser said. Osram’s net income rose 3.6
percent to 115 million euros in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  