-- Slovenia to Get Cabinet as Pensioners Party Joins Coalition
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-01-24T18:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/slovenia-to-get-cabinet-as-pensioners-party-joins-coalition-1-.html
Slovenia will probably get a new
premier-designate after the Pensioners’ Party agreed to join a
coalition headed by former Prime Minister  Janez Jansa , ending
weeks of political uncertainty in the euro-region nation.  “We’re joining the coalition,” the party’s president,
Karl Erjavec, said today in an interview with TV Slovenija,
citing the need to end address the country’s economic
“crisis.” The party has 6 seats in the 90-member legislature,
bringing Jansa’s support to 50 lawmakers.  Jansa, whose party came second in the snap vote last month,
needs 46 votes to be confirmed as premier at a parliamentary
session on Jan. 28. His Cabinet would probably be confirmed two
weeks after that. Zoran Jankovic, a former mayor of Ljubljana
whose party won the Dec. 4 vote, failed to be confirmed as
premier-designate on Jan. 12.  Slovenia, which has been without an official government
since the ouster of Borut Pahor’s administration in September,
needs to trim public spending to comply with the new fiscal pact
being pushed by European leaders such as German chancellor
 Angela Merkel . Jansa, who led the Cabinet from 2004 to 2008, has
proposed spending cuts of 800 million euros ($1.04 billion) to
allay investor concern over the country’s debt.  The export-driven economy is sliding into a recession as
the debt crisis in  Europe  saps demand for its goods. Gross
domestic product will shrink 1.1 percent this year, the  European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development  said today in a report.  Slovenia’s borrowing costs rose to over 7 percent in
November, while its  credit rating  was lowered by all the major
ratings companies after the government fell.  Standard & Poor’s 
cut the country’s assessment to A+ on Jan. 13 along with eight
other euro-region nations. Moody’s lowered Slovenia’s credit
grade on Dec. 23, citing the potential need for the government
to support the banking industry.  Public debt surged to over 45 percent of GDP last year from
23 percent in 2007, according to the European Commission
November report. The level is forecast to rise to just above 50
percent this year, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  