-- Slovenia’s NLB Bank Postpones Mercator Holding Sale Once Again
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-01-24T17:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/slovenia-s-nlb-bank-postpones-mercator-holding-sale-once-again.html
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., which
owns just below 11 percent of  Mercator Poslovni Sistem (MELR)  d.d.,
once again postponed the decision to sell its holding in the
Slovenian store chain and put the decision to the bank’s
shareholders.  “The supervisory board couldn’t decide on the sale due to
lack of quorum,” the Ljubljana-based lender said in an emailed
statement. The supervisory board proposed “to call a
 shareholders’ meeting  to decide on the sale of the Mercator
stake,” according to the statement.  NLB and other Slovenian banks were in exclusive talks with
 Croatia ’s Agrokor d.d. to sell the 52 percent stake in Mercator.
Croatia’s largest private company offered 221 euros per share
valuing the Slovenian retailer 832 million euros ($1.08
billion). The sale was delayed in December after increased
opposition from Mercator’s management and Slovenian officials
that forced Bozo Jasovic, the chief executive officer of Nova
Ljubljanska to resign.  Slovenian banks need to raise fresh capital as the
faltering economy pushes more companies into bankruptcy, forcing
lenders to set aside record amounts of cash to cover bad loans.
The banking industry will see “even bigger” losses this year
as the economy slides into recession, the jobless rate rises and
corporate losses increase, central bank Governor Marko Kranjec
said earlier this month.  Mercator earlier this month abandoned its plan to takeover
 Pivovarna Lasko d.d.  on concern about the financing risk.
Agrokor’s offer for Mercator is valid until the end of February,
the Zagreb-based company has said.  Mercator, which lost 23 percent of its value since the Nov.
18 peak, was little changed in Ljubljana today at 140 euros
after dropping as much as 6 percent in early trading. The stock
lost just below 5 percent of its value this year, giving the
company a market value of 527 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  