-- Societe Generale, Credit Agricole Ratings Downgraded by S&P
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-01-24T17:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/societe-generale-credit-agricole-cut-by-s-p-in-wake-of-france-s-downgrade.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  were among French banks to have their credit grades
cut by  Standard & Poor’s  after France was stripped of its top
rating earlier this month.  Societe Generale, France’s second-largest bank by market
value, and Credit Agricole, the third biggest, had their debt
downgraded to A from A+ with a stable outlook, S&P said
yesterday in statements. Caisse des Depots et Consignations was
also cut, to AA+ from AAA.  European nations are grappling with a debt crisis now in
its third year as they seek to restore budget order. France’s
credit was lowered to AA+ from AAA on Jan. 13 amid downgrades
that left  Germany  the sole nation in the euro area with a stable
top rating. The assessments for Societe Generale and  Credit
Agricole  incorporate one level of government support rather than
two levels that an AAA rated sovereign would provide, S&P said.  “The downgrade of some of these banks follows the
downgrade of France,” S&P said in a statement.  Societe Generale  declined  5.4 percent to 21.57 euros in
Paris trading. The stock is up 25 percent since the start of the
year. Credit Agricole  fell  4.1 percent to 5 euros.  Societe Generale said S&P’s decision was anticipated.  “This downgrade is a direct consequence of the methodology
used by S&P, which builds into our rating an element of systemic
support by the French state, whose own sovereign rating has been
recently cut,” the bank said in a statement.  Funding Needs  S&P said it expects lower investment-banking revenues to
weigh on Societe Generale’s operating income. The bank announced
in November that it won’t pay a  dividend  for 2011. The rating on
Credit Agricole assumes “the bank will continue to improve its
structural funding and liquidity position as part of the plan it
announced at the end of 2011, and which provided for a
significant reduction in funding needs,” it said.  The banks are likely to meet their 2012 funding needs
through some combination of public and private placements, or
covered bonds, according to S&P.  “We see the French government as supportive to its banking
sector,” the ratings firm said.  S&P said it expects credit losses in France this year and
next to rise “only moderately” from 2011.  The ratings company also affirmed the AA- long-term grade
for  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, France’s biggest bank, and Credit Logement
SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  