-- Stanford Told Investors ‘Lie After Lie,’ Prosecutor Says as Trial Begins
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-01-25T00:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/stanford-told-investors-lie-after-lie-prosecutor-says-as-trial-begins.html
R. Allen Stanford engaged in a long-
term scheme to defraud people who bought certificates of deposit
from his Antigua bank, a U.S. prosecutor told jurors at the
opening of the financier’s criminal trial in Houston.  Stanford, 61, was the ringleader of a $7 billion investment
fraud, the U.S. said in a 14-count indictment accusing him of
mail fraud and  wire fraud , crimes that carry maximum sentences
of 20 years in prison. He’s also charged with conspiracy to
commit mail fraud and wire fraud and to obstruct a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission probe.  “I plead not guilty to every count,” Stanford, wearing a
light gray plaid suit and a white dress shirt and no necktie,
told the jury today.  Stanford has been in federal custody since being indicted
in June 2009. His trial was postponed three times because of
changes to his legal defense team, the after-effects of a
jailhouse beating and a subsequent prescription-drug addiction.  Stanford stole from investors “so that he could live the
lifestyle of a billionaire,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregg
Costa said in his opening statement. “He told them lie after
lie after lie.”  The scheme stretched over 20 years of “lying, cheating and
bribing,” Costa told the jury of 10 men and five women,
including three alternates.  ‘Real’ Empire  “Mr. Stanford’s financial empire was real and did make a
lot of money and did pay every penny of what was owed to
depositors for 22 years,” Robert Scardino, one of Stanford’s
court-appointed lawyers, told the jury in his own opening
remarks.  Scardino and defense lawyer Ali Fazel have previously said
they will use the records of Houston-based Stanford Group Co.
and Stanford International Bank Ltd. to prove their client never
intended to defraud anyone.  No investor lost money until the SEC sued Stanford and
obtained a court order to take control of his businesses in
February 2009, the defense has said.  Costa called the $7 billion in deposits once held by
Stanford’s Antigua bank “a real number.”  “How did Mr. Stanford get so many people to give him so
much of their savings?” Costa asked. “That’s where the lying
comes in.”  Stanford lied to depositors about the liquidity of their
investments, about whether his bank ever loaned those proceeds
and about who was managing their money, the prosecutor said.  ‘Compound Fraud’  “You’re going to see the power of compound fraud,” he
said.  The financier lied about committing $700 million of his own
money to shore up the bank’s finances in 2008, while he was
actually pulling money out, Costa said.  Stanford also “waved his magic wand” to increase the
value of an unimproved island property from $63 million to $3
billion during the worst economic downturn since the Great
Depression, according to the prosecutor.  The financier is accused of bribing his now-dead auditor
and an Antiguan banking regulator who received cash, National
Football League Super Bowl championship tickets and use of
Stanford’s private jets.  Costa told jurors they would hear from investors who lost
their life savings. These witnesses will tell, “how his lying,
stealing and bribing have taken that money and the dreams they
had with it.”  ‘Complete Picture’  Scardino told jurors the U.S. didn’t have full access to
Stanford’s business records and wasn’t presenting “a complete
picture” of his client’s business. He said Stanford invested
more than $100 million to improve the island and obtain licenses
that made the property more valuable.  The defense lawyer called his client “a  Texas  boy” and
“a very resourceful businessman” who became a billionaire. He
said the jury may hear from his client during the trial, without
being more specific.  Stanford’s lawyer told the panel that the CDs sold by the
Stanford bank weren’t securities and that Stanford’s clients had
no say over how their money was invested.  The bank’s CDs were sold only in tranches valued at $50,000
or more, to investors with either a net worth of more than $1
million or an annual income of more than $200,000, the defense
lawyer said.  Scardino called those CD purchasers “sophisticated
investors” whom he said “know what a CD was and what it
wasn’t.”  ‘Legitimate’ Business  They also received promotional materials from Stanford’s
business disclosing that past performance was no guarantee of
future success and that an investor could lose the entirety of
an investment.  “We’re going to prove this was not a  Ponzi scheme  at
all,” Scardino said. Unlike frauds in which money from later-
arriving investors is used to pay off earlier speculators, he
said, “this one was legitimate.”  Jury selection began yesterday at Houston’s Bob Casey
Federal Courthouse with U.S. District Judge David Hittner’s
interview of 80 prospective panelists, many of whom said they
had read or heard reports about the case and some of whom told
the judge they didn’t know if they could be impartial.  Of the 15 men and women selected today, nine are white,
three are black and three are Hispanic.  Among them are a retail optician, an environmental
engineer, two accountants, a kindergarten teacher, a chef, a
land surveyor, a pawn broker and a retired hairdresser.  The trial may last about six weeks, Hittner said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The civil
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Houston at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  