-- Starbucks Happy Hour May Risk Alienating Some Customers: Retail
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/starbucks-turns-to-happy-hour-to-bring-in-more-traffic-retail.html
Bringing happy hour to  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  may be easier said than done.  After experimenting with alcohol sales at six West Coast
stores, the world’s largest coffee-shop chain said yesterday
that it will sell beer and wine in as many as 25 locations by
the end of the year. Starbucks, which has 10,700 U.S. cafes,
will also sell fruit-and-cheese plates and focaccia with olive
oil.  The strategy is part of a broader experiment to find ways
to lure Starbucks customers and even non-coffee drinkers into
stores during slow periods of the day, especially afternoons and
evenings. The trick will be doing it without alienating core
customers, said Bill Chidley, a Centerville, Ohio-based senior
vice president at Interbrand, a brand consulting firm.  “It makes sense if you think of the way that McDonald’s
grew its business by going into breakfast” and specialty
coffees, Chidley said in an interview. Still, selling alcohol
may turn off some families with children, he said.  “It certainly is going to be controversial,” he said.  The wine and beer initiative is part of an effort by Chief
Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  to cement a turnaround he
engineered starting in 2008. Starbucks shuttered hundreds of
cafes after overbuilding and a consumer-led recession sent sales
and profits sliding.  Sales have rebounded since Schultz reclaimed the CEO post
in 2008. Revenue rose 20 percent to $11.7 billion worldwide in
the year ended Oct. 2, from $9.77 billion in 2009. Profit more
than tripled during the same time. Starbucks has captured 33
percent of the $26.5 billion U.S. coffee and snack shop market,
according a July report from researcher IBISWorld Inc.  Dunkin’
Brands Group Inc.’s (DNKN)   Dunkin’ Donuts  chain has 16 percent of the
market.  Shares Advance  The company’s  shares  climbed 43 percent last year, compared
with a 16 percent gain for the Bloomberg U.S. Quick Service
Restaurant Index, which includes  McDonald’s (MCD)  Corp., Krispy Kreme
Doughnuts Inc. and Wendy’s Co.  In recent years several  restaurant chains  have sought to
boost growth by transcending their origins.  McDonald’s has successfully moved beyond fast food into
coffee beverages, opening McCafe bistros with earth-tone decor
and free Wi-Fi. McDonald’s also expanded its menu offerings --
including fruit smoothies, salads and wraps -- with the aim of
attracting people around the clock.  Dunkin’ Donuts has introduced new food to lure folks after
the morning hours.  Starbucks has “plenty of business in the morning,” said
Sara Senatore, a New York-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. The chain isn’t making full use of its workers and real
estate in the later part of the day, said Senatore, who rates
the shares “outperform.”  Give a Reason  “At a certain point, you need to grow revenue, you need to
give people other reasons to come in,” Chidley said.  The new stores, which will be located in  Chicago , Atlanta
and  Southern California , will be larger and seat more patrons
than regular Starbucks cafes, Clarice Turner, senior vice
president of U.S. operations, said yesterday in an interview.  At the six stores that now sell alcohol in Seattle and
 Portland ,  Oregon , beer is $5 and glasses of wine are $7 to $9.
Starbucks is creating the bar menu “so it’s relevant to local
taste preferences,” Turner said, declining to be more specific.  In November, Starbucks acquired juicemaker Evolution Fresh
Inc. for $30 million and said it would open stores selling such
drinks as pomegranate lemonade and protein shakes to broaden its
market beyond coffee. San Bernardino, California-based Evolution
sells organic and fresh-squeezed juices at grocery stores in the
U.S., according to its website.  Revamped Packaging  This month, Starbucks introduced blonde-roast coffee, its
lightest blend yet, in an attempt to attract consumers who don’t
want to drink Starbucks’ signature dark roasts. The company also
revamped its coffee packaging to reflect the new categories --
blonde, medium and dark.  Starbucks has had mixed success with new offerings in the
past. The company pulled the plug on a yogurt-based fruit drink
introduced in 2008 because it was too complicated to make. In
2006, Starbucks yanked Chantico drinking chocolate, a Spanish-
inspired beverage served in 6-ounce cups, because the small size
and thick drink turned off customers.  Starbucks isn’t considering bringing wine and beer to the
whole chain, Turner said.  “It won’t be at every Starbucks store ever,” she said.  Still, Starbucks has the potential to put beer and wine in
at least 10 percent of its stores, Peter Saleh, a restaurant
analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in  New York , said in an
interview.  “I doubt that this is just an opportunity for 100 or 200
restaurants,” he said. “I don’t think they would distract
themselves with something that would be so insignificant to
their bottom line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  