-- U.K. Budget Deficit Narrows More Than Forecast as Osborne Cuts Take Effect
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-01-24T09:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/u-k-budget-deficit-narrows-more-than-forecast-as-osborne-cuts-take-effect.html
Britain’s  budget deficit  narrowed
more than forecast in December as  government spending  fell,
suggesting Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s fiscal
squeeze is gaining traction.  Net borrowing excluding support for banks was 13.7 billion
pounds ($21.3 billion) compared with 15.9 billion pounds a year
earlier, the Office for National Statistics said in London
today. The median of 17 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was
14.9 billion pounds.  Osborne has pledged to stick to his plans for the deepest
cuts since World War II as European nations struggling to tame
deficits see their credit ratings lowered. Tackling the  budget
deficit  is being made harder by slowing economic growth, which
is hitting tax revenue. Net debt rose above 1 trillion pounds
last month for the first time since records began in 1993.  “The figures are better than expected and it looks like
the chancellor will meet his forecasts,” said  Philip Shaw , an
economist at Investec Securities in London. “If we see a
revival on the economy the plans will remain on track. If not,
he’ll have to rethink.”  The pound eased against the dollar following the report and
was trading at $1.5542 as of 9:45 a.m. in London, down 0.2
percent on the day.  Tax and Spending  Tax revenue rose 7.3 percent in December from a year
earlier, boosted by a levy on bank balance sheets and taxes on
corporate profits. Spending fell 0.9 percent, led by a squeeze
on government departments where outlays dropped 4.4 percent.  In the first nine months of the fiscal year, the deficit
was 103.3 billion pounds compared with 114.6 billion pounds a
year earlier. Government revenue rose 5 percent and spending
gained 1.5 percent. Osborne’s fiscal watchdog, the  Office for
Budget Responsibility , predicts the deficit will reach 127
billion pounds in the fiscal year as a whole.  The Treasury said the government is making “good
progress” in cutting the deficit. “That our national debt has
reached more than one trillion pounds simply shows the
unsustainable level of spending this country built up over the
past few years, and shows why it is critical for our nation’s
future that we deal decisively with the deficit,” it said in a
statement today.  Osborne raised his borrowing forecasts in November and
conceded that spending cuts will have to continue beyond the
2015 general election for the government to meet its target of
eliminating a deficit of 9 percent of economic output.  Recession Risk  The economy probably shrank 0.1 percent in the  fourth
quarter , according to the median of 33 forecasts, raising the
prospect of a second recession in three years. The  Office for
National Statistics  will publish its first estimate for the
period tomorrow.  European Union finance ministers conclude two days of
meetings today in Brussels as they try to craft a long-term plan
to tackle the region’s debt crisis. On Jan. 13,  France  and
 Austria  lost their top AAA credit ratings at  Standard & Poor’s ,
which downgraded nine euro-area nations, saying crisis-fighting
efforts are falling short.  Citigroup analysts Michael Saundersand Mark Schofield said
last week the U.K. will retain its AAA grade because of the
government’s commitment to reducing the budget deficit with 147
billion pounds of austerity measures planned by April 2017.  Today’s report shows the deficit including government
support for banks was 10.8 billion pounds compared with 13.9
billion pounds a year earlier. There was a public-sector net
cash requirement of 22.9 billion pounds, above the shortfall of
19 billion pounds that was predicted by analysts.  Net debt rose to 1 trillion pounds, equating to 64.2
percent of GDP. That’s up from 59.4 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  