-- S&P 500 Ends Five-Day Rally Amid Stalemate Over Greek Debt Talks
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-01-24T22:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/u-s-stock-futures-slip-on-lack-of-debt-swap-progress-interdigital-sinks.html
U.S. stocks retreated, ending a
five-day advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, amid a
stalemate between European finance ministers and Greek
bondholders over how to resolve the nation’s debt crisis.  Travelers Cos., the only insurer in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , sank 3.8 percent as earnings fell.
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  slid 2.2 percent after saying that foreign-
currency fluctuations will cut 2012 profit. Verizon
Communications Inc. dropped 1.6 percent as it reported a  loss .
 Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  declined 1.7 percent as earnings missed
estimates.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  surged 7.7 percent at 5:07 p.m. New York
time after reporting record quarterly sales and profit.  The S&P 500 fell 0.1 percent to 1,314.65 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The benchmark gauge for American equities rose 2.1 percent
over the previous five days. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
retreated 33.07 points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,675.75.  “It’s all about the negotiations of Greek debt,”  Mike Ryan , the New York-based chief investment strategist at UBS
Wealth Management Americas, said in a telephone interview. His
firm oversees $715 billion. “There’s concern that, if it spills
over, it undermines some of the progress being made. I’m still
not convinced that they solved all of their problems. The next
question is how deep of an impact that will have on earnings.”  Global stocks slumped as European finance ministers pushed
bondholders to provide greater debt relief for  Greece , spurring
concern the nation may fail to make a March 20 bond payment. The
 International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for the global
economy. President Barack Obama tonight will lay out what he
calls a “blueprint” for revitalizing the economy in his third
State of the Union address before a joint session of Congress.  Beating Forecasts  The  S&P 500  yesterday capped its longest rally since
December as data bolstered confidence in the economy and most
quarterly reports exceeded forecasts. Of the 74 companies in the
S&P 500 that reported results since Jan. 9, 48 posted per-share
earnings that beat projections, Bloomberg data show.  Travelers retreated 3.8 percent, the most in the Dow, to
$58. The insurer said fourth-quarter profit fell on lower
investment income and a smaller reserve benefit, capping the
company’s least profitable year since 2004.  McDonald’s declined 2.2 percent to $98.75. The company,
which gets about 60 percent of its revenue outside the U.S.,
said profit may be trimmed as the European debt crisis sinks the
region’s currency. Foreign-exchange fluctuations may cut 2012
profit by as much as 18 cents a share and first-quarter earnings
by as much as 3 cents, Chief Financial Officer Peter Bensen said
today on a conference call.  Phone Companies  A measure of  phone  companies had the biggest loss in the
S&P 500 among 10 groups, slumping 1.3 percent.  Verizon (VZ)  slid 1.6
percent to $37.79. The second-largest U.S. phone company
reported a fourth-quarter loss after booking a pension charge
and having higher subsidy costs for rising iPhone sales. On a
conference call, Verizon gave a 2012 earnings-forecast range
whose bottom trailed analysts’ estimates.  AT&T Inc. (T)  declined 1
percent to $30.09.  Peabody retreated 1.7 percent to $36.86. Sales from
Australian mines fell to 6.2 million tons from 6.7 million tons.
“Geological issues” reduced output at North Goonyella in
 Australia , Peabody said. The company is also moving a longwall,
a type of coal face at an underground mine, at the Twentymile
pit in  Colorado , which will interrupt production there.  Zions Bancorporation (ZION)  had the biggest loss in the S&P 500,
falling 7.6 percent to $17.15. The Salt Lake City-based bank was
cut to “hold” from “buy” at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. after
reporting fourth-quarter earnings that missed the average
analyst estimate.  Handbag Maker  Coach Inc. (COH)  jumped 5.8 percent to $67.97. The largest U.S.
luxury handbag maker reported a 15 percent increase in quarterly
profit that topped analysts’ estimates, driven by holiday sales
in  North America .  Waters Corp. (WAT)  soared 8 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$85.04. The maker of laboratory products and instruments posted
quarterly profit and sales that beat analysts’ estimates.  Apple surged 7.7 percent to $452.68 as it reported results
after regular trading hours. Holiday purchases of the new iPhone
helped the company steer clear of the consumer spending slump
that has hurt rival technology companies.  Earnings probably grew 3.4 percent for S&P 500 companies in
the fourth quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts.
The projection has fallen from 6.2 percent at the end of last
year. The global economy is forecast to grow 2.3 percent in
2012, according to the median projection in a survey of
economists, down from the estimate of 3.4 percent in July.  ‘Soft Earnings’  “The market is not terribly disappointed by what appear to
be soft earnings compared to where we’ve been,” David Joy, the
Boston-based chief market strategist at Ameriprise Financial
Inc., said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees $600
billion. “There’s a creeping sense of optimism that things are
going to improve. That lessens the fear that along with softness
in  Europe  we’ll have a global recession.”  Collective Brands Inc. (PSS)  rallied 6.4 percent to $15.89. The
company may extract the biggest takeover premium of any apparel
retailer in the world as the maker of Saucony and Sperry Top-
Sider shoes lures private equity buyers.  Collective Brands, which said in August it was reviewing
options to boost  shareholder value , may attract interest from
buyout firms and rivals such as  Wolverine World Wide Inc. (WWW)  when
bids are due next week, according to people familiar with the
process. The company, which also owns the Payless ShoeSource
chain, could be worth as much as $27 a share based on the value
of its  separate businesses , Morningstar Inc. said.  Half the Price  While the 87 percent premium would be the largest of any
deal in the industry worth at least $100 million, it still
allows acquirers to get Collective Brands at half the price of
its competitors relative to sales, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In a breakup, an apparel company could keep the
wholesale brands, which boosted sales by 25 percent in the first
nine months of 2011, while a private equity firm would run the
Payless chain for its  cash flow , Auriga USA LLC said.  “On the retail side of the business, this seems like
almost a perfect set-up for a private equity company,” R.J. Hottovy, director of consumer research at Chicago-based
Morningstar, said in a telephone interview. “The wholesale
brands alone would be an attractive acquisition target for any
of the major branded footwear players.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  