-- Hungary’s Orban May Not Strike EU Deal Today, Deputy PM Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-01-24T12:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/hungary-s-orban-may-not-reach-eu-agreement-today-deputy-pm-says.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  may not reach a political agreement with European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  at a meeting today, Deputy
Prime Minister Tibor Navracsics said.  Hungary faces infringement procedures by the European Union
over laws on the central bank, the judiciary and the data
protection agency. Orban is trying to revive financial aid
negotiations with the EU and the  International Monetary Fund .
Orban earlier said he expected to reach a “political
agreement” during talks with Barroso today.  “I don’t know if either the prime minister or the
commission’s president have the ambition to reach a political
agreement today,” Navracsics said in an interview on public
radio  MR1-Kossuth  today. “The stakes aren’t that high.”  Hungary will “surely not modify” a new constitution,
which came into effect on Jan. 1, as a result of the
disagreement with the 27-member bloc over the  retirement age  of
judges, Navracsics said. “There won’t be a concession, the
parties may find a joint solution,” he said.  Hungary rejects the EU’s view that cutting the official
retirement age from 70 to 62 for judges was discriminatory, he
said.  Weaker Forint  Speculation that the talks may collapse pushed the forint
to a record low against the euro earlier this month. Orban’s
pledge to change legislation to satisfy the 27-member EU helped
local assets pare losses.  “I’m absolutely ready to discuss all issues, regardless
How difficult these issues are, in an open manner and draw the
conclusion - if it’s possible to draw the conclusion - and find
an agreement together,” Orban told journalists in Brussels
today after meeting with European Parliament President  Martin Schulz . The government is pursuing “consolidation politics,”
Orban, meet Barroso later in the day, said.  The forint, the worst-performing currency against the euro
in the world in the past six months with an 11 percent decline,
rallied 6 percent since touching a record low of 324.24 on
Jan. 5. The currency weakened 0.6 percent to 301.65 per euro by
12:22 p.m. in Budapest.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps was little changed at 594 basis points from
yesterday and compared with a record high of 735 basis points on
Jan. 5. A basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point.
Hungary’s benchmark 10-year bonds weakened, lifting yields 4
basis points to 9.25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  