-- Hungary’s Unexpectedly Holds EU’s Highest Benchmark Rate on Forint Rally
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-24T18:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/hungary-unexpectedly-holds-eu-s-highest-benchmark-rate-as-forint-recovers.html
Hungary unexpectedly left the
European Union’s highest  benchmark interest rate  unchanged as
local assets rebounded from record lows after Premier  Viktor Orban  said he would yield in a row with the European Union.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  held the benchmark two-week deposit
rate at 7 percent today. The Monetary Council, which also
considered a 50 basis-point increase, had a “close vote,”
central bank Governor Andras Simor told a news conference.
Twenty of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted an
increase. The forint and stocks fell, while bonds rose.  Orban was in Brussels today, seeking to restart bailout
talks that broke down last month over a central bank law that
the  International Monetary Fund  and the EU said threatens
monetary-policy independence. Speculation that the talks may
collapse pushed the forint to a record low against the euro
earlier this month. Orban’s pledge to change legislation to
satisfy the 27-member EU helped local assets pare losses.  “The majority of the council reckoned that the change in
the government’s communication not only influenced risk premia
in the short term, but may also have longer-term effects,”
Simor said.  The forint gained for a sixth day to 299.50 per euro by
5:40 p.m. in Budapest after weakening as much as 1.1 percent
following the rate decision. Orban’s conciliatory rhetoric sent
the forint, the worst-performing currency in the world in the
past six months, rallying 6.5 percent against the euro since
falling to a record low of 324.24 on Jan. 5.  Bonds Gain  The yield on 10-year  government bonds  fell 17 basis points
to 9.04 percent, compared with 10.8 percent on Jan. 4. The cost
of insuring state debt against default rose 3 basis points to
598 basis points after reaching a record 735 on Jan. 5. The
benchmark BUX stock index fell for the first time in nine days,
to close 0.9 percent lower at 18,849.68.  The outcome of today’s vote is the result of “the divide
between the four new members, who are closely aligned with the
government, and the old guard, totaling three, who called for a
50 basis-point increase,” said Guillaume Salomon, London-based
emerging market strategist at Societe Generale SA. “We believe
that the council is indeed completely divided.”  The four outside members of the rate-setting Monetary
Council were appointed last year by a parliamentary committee
dominated by lawmakers belonging to the ruling party.  Hungary  may need to raise the main rate further if the
country’s risk assessment and inflation outlook “deteriorate
significantly,” Simor said, adding that only a “substantial
and sustained improvement” in risk premiums would warrant a
rate cut.  Romania, Czech, Poland  Hungary’s recent rate increases contrast with the Romanian
central bank, which has lowered borrowing costs twice in the
past three months to 5.75 percent. The Ceska Narodni Banka in
 Prague  has left its two-week repurchase rate unchanged at a
record-low 0.75 percent since May 2010, while Poland kept its
benchmark rate unchanged at 4.5 percent for a sixth meeting on
Jan. 11.  “Today’s decision is the reflection of a recovery in
global risk appetite and signs that the government adopted a
more conciliatory tone,”  Neil Shearing , a senior emerging-
markets economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said by
phone. “The main issue is whether these two factors will be
sustained and this is essentially what the rate outlook hinges
on.”  ‘Soon as Possible’  Hungarian forward-rate agreements, used to bet on three-
month interest costs in one month, fell 24 basis points to 7.56
percent, the lowest level on a closing basis since Dec 28. The
Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, to which the FRAs settle,
traded at 7.65 percent.  Hungary needs to reach an agreement with the two
international institutions “as soon as possible” for financing
costs to decline, the central bank said in a statement today.  “Members of the central bank’s board probably hope that
Hungary will reach an agreement with the IMF on a precautionary
 credit line , removing the need for rate hikes to protect the
forint,” Vaclav  France , an economist at Raiffeisenbank AS in
Prague, wrote in an e-mail to clients after the rate decision.  EU finance ministers at a meeting today pushed Hungary to
do more to rein in its  budget deficit , holding out the threat of
a suspension of subsidies if the government doesn’t meet fiscal
targets.  ‘Severe Deterioration’  Hungary’s budget sustainability underwent a “severe
deterioration” last year, which was masked by one-time
measures, the commission said in a report on Jan. 11. Hungary
has failed to take “effective action” to rein in the budget
deficit in a “sustainable nature,” it said. The ministers
today adopted the recommendation.  Hungary is ready to change its central bank bill and other
laws because starting talks on an IMF loan is more important for
the government than engaging in a legal battle with the European
Commission, Orban told reporters in Budapest Jan. 20.  “I’m absolutely ready to discuss all issues, regardless
how difficult these issues are, in an open manner and draw the
conclusion -- if it’s possible to draw the conclusion -- and
find an agreement together,” Orban told reporters in Brussels
today after meeting European Parliament President  Martin Schulz .  Barroso Meeting  Orban met European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso
today to outline solutions to the EU executive’s concerns. The
commission threatened on Jan. 17 to file a lawsuit against
Hungary because of the central bank law, moves to force hundreds
of judges into retirement by cutting their pension age and a
plan to dismiss the data protection ombudsman after an overhaul
of his office.  “We had a comprehensive and constructive discussion,”
Barroso said in a  statement . “The Prime Minister indicated
Hungary’s readiness to address swiftly the issues raised by the
Commission.”  Hungary, which became the first EU country to receive an
IMF-led bailout in 2008, shunned fresh aid in 2010 when Orban
became prime minister. He reversed his policy last year when the
state started struggling to raise funds at debt auctions, the
forint plummeted and the country’s sovereign-credit grade was
cut to junk.  Hungary has become a test case for democratic principles
and economic-policy rules in the EU, forcing the commission to
make good on a pledge to use all its powers to enforce the
bloc’s norms. The country, which isn’t part of the 17-nation
euro area, risks compounding the two-year-old European debt-
crisis centered on the single currency.  Hungary’s public debt rose to 83 percent of gross domestic
product at the end of the third quarter, the highest in the
region. It compares with about half that ratio for neighboring
Slovakia, which joined the euro in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  