-- Murder of Arkansas Boys Given New Twist at Sundance: Interview
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/murder-of-arkansas-boys-given-new-twist-at-sundance-interview.html
Amy Berg, the director of “West of
 Memphis ,” said Saturday that she will present  Arkansas 
authorities with new evidence in a notorious murder case.  The documentary, which has its premiere this week at the
 Sundance Festival , is the latest salvo in a years-long effort,
first to free, then to exonerate Damien Echols, Jason Baldwin and
Jessie Misskelley. They were convicted in the 1993 murder of
three 8-year-old boys whose bodies were found in a drainage ditch
outside the Arkansas town of West Memphis.  As with other investigations into the crime -- notably  HBO (TWX) ’s
“ Paradise Lost ” -- “West of Memphis” points a finger at Terry
Hobbs, stepfather of victim Stevie Branch, as the real killer. In
the new film, three friends of Hobbs’s nephew say they were told
about “the Hobbs Family Secret.” (Hobbs did not cooperate on the
making of “West of Memphis.”)  Echols, Baldwin and Misskelley were released last August,
after accepting the state’s offer of an “Alford Plea.” The
bizarre legal maneuver allowed them to maintain their innocence
while accepting a guilty plea.  “West of Memphis,” which was being shopped to distributors
at Sundance for a theatrical release, is unsparing in its
assertions of police corruption and judicial misconduct that kept
the three men in prison for 18 years.  Echols, dressed in a long black leather coat, black jeans
and black t-shirt -- the goth-hipster style that first drew
police attention to him as a 16-year-old in 1993 -- attended a
press conference Saturday along with the director. After making
the film, Berg said, “I now have no faith in the justice system.”  I spoke with Berg at a crowded Park City,  Utah , lounge
shortly after the press conference.  Digging Deep  Evans: When you signed on with producers Peter Jackson and
Fran Walsh in 2008, did you know what you were getting yourself
into?  Berg: We thought I would spend a couple months down in
Arkansas. Two and a half years later...  Evans: What was the attraction?  Berg: The whole idea [of false imprisonment] is one of the
most horrific things in the world to me. This case has everything
-- misconduct on every level. And then I got to know the people,
and I knew it was tragic on every level.  Evans: At the press conference, you spoke of sensing
something “dark and corrupt and ugly” about Judge David Burnett,
who presided over the case and later refused to hear new
evidence.  Berg: I try to understand people from their own perspectives
and be empathetic in a way that they can be honest with me. But I
felt dirty when I left Burnett’s house.  Evans: Will you continue to investigate the case?  Berg: I don’t know if I’m going to be able to let go of this
one. It’s up to the state of Arkansas, but the call to action is
out there.  Evans: Any sequels possible?  Berg: Do you think it needs a sequel?  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 