-- Turkish Yields Climb After Central Bank Signals Increase in Funding Costs
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-24T16:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/turkish-bond-yields-rise-after-central-bank-signals-rise-in-funding-costs.html
Turkish  yields  gained on concern
that borrowing costs will rise after the central bank signaled
it will increase the amount it lends in the more expensive one-
month repurchase agreements relative to one-week repo.  Yields on two-year lira-denominated bonds increased four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 10.34 percent at the
close of trading in Istanbul, reversing an earlier decline. The
bank will lend as much as 20 billion liras in one-month repo
over the next four weeks, compared with 12 billion liras ($11
billion) over the previous four-week period, it said in an e-
mailed statement today. The bank last sold the paper on Jan. 20
at an average annual rate of 11.34 percent, which is more than
the 5.75 percent rate charged for one-week repo.  “Increasing the amount shows that the average funding cost
for banks will rise to 8-8.5 percent,” Erkin Isik, a fixed
income strategist at  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK) , said in e-mailed
comments.  Yields on  Turkey ’s benchmark debt soared 390 basis points
last year, the most since 2006, as the lira weakened 18 percent
against the dollar in the biggest depreciation worldwide and a
widening  current-account deficit  hurt investor confidence in the
nation’s financial stability.  The central bank will also lend between 3 billion liras and
7 billion liras of one-week repo over the next four weeks,
keeping the amount unchanged from the previous period and
charging  5.75 percent as  interest rate . It is terminating daily
sales of $50 million from tomorrow as the lira has strengthened
3.5 percent this year. The currency weakened 0.5 percent to
1.8279 per dollar today.  “We think that the central bank is happy with the Turkish
lira’s value,”  Ozgur Altug , chief economist at BGC Partners in
Istanbul said in a client note. “The decisions overall signal a
stable currency for now and slightly higher bond yields going
forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  