-- Turkish Yields Decline to Five-Week Low on Auction Bets, JPMorgan Upgrade
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-24T12:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/turkish-yields-hit-5-week-low-on-auction-bets-jpmorgan-upgrade.html
Turkish two-year bond yields
retreated to the lowest in more than five weeks as the Treasury
paid the least to borrow at an auction since October and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. upgraded local bonds.  The  yield  on two-year notes fell for a second day, slipping
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 10.24 percent at
1:29 p.m. in Istanbul, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS index of the
securities showed. That extended this year’s drop to 77 basis
points, the biggest monthly decline in five months.  The Treasury sold a total of 4.66 billion liras ($2.6
billion) in benchmark bonds maturing 2013 at 10.28 percent
today. This compares with two-year debt sold at 10.59 percent in
November and 10.34 percent in December.  Turkey ’s local bonds
were raised to “neutral” from “underweight” at JPMorgan,
which cited a “favorable” domestic and global backdrop in an
e-mailed report today.  “It is a success for the Treasury,” Suha Yaygin, deputy
chief of emerging markets trading at Toronto-Dominion Bank in
 London , said in e-mailed comments.  Yields on Turkey’s benchmark debt soared 390 basis points
last year, the most since 2006, as the lira weakened 18 percent
against the dollar in the biggest depreciation worldwide and a
widening  current-account deficit  hurt investor confidence in the
nation’s financial stability.  Interest Rate  Turkey’s central bank kept its one-week repo rate at a
record low today, maintaining the floor of the  interest-rate 
corridor it has used to support the lira and control inflation.  It held the rate at 5.75 percent, the Ankara-
based lender said on its website today. That matched the
estimate of all 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank
will release minutes of the monetary policy committee’s meeting
within five working days.  Turkey will halt sales of dollars in regular daily auctions
from tomorrow, the central bank said in an e-mailed statement.
It may hold auctions of as much as $500 million per day when
deemed necessary, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  