-- Turkey Bank Keeps Rates Corridor, Adds to One-Month Repo
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2012-01-24T15:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/turkish-central-bank-keeps-one-week-repo-rate-at-5-75-percent.html
Turkey’s central bank maintained the
corridor within which it varies  interest rates  daily and offered
banks increased longer-term financing at a higher rate.  The bank held the one-week repo rate, the floor of the
corridor, at 5.75 percent, as expected by all 11 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. It also kept the ceiling at 12.5 percent.
The Ankara-based bank announced the decision on its website
today and will release minutes of the monetary policy
committee’s meeting within five working days.  Since October, Governor Erdem Basci has said he would vary
bank borrowing costs on a daily basis within that corridor.
Mostly he has kept the costs at the top of the range, saying
tighter policy is needed to stop a decline in the lira that’s
driving inflation. Today he reaffirmed the policy and also
almost doubled the amount of one-month funding he auctions to
banks, allowing them more dependable financing.  That “will probably push up costs a bit but more
importantly it offers protection against fluctuations,”  Yarkin Cebeci , economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Istanbul, said by
phone. “The bank has seen the improvement globally and this is
a sign of normalization.”  The bank will offer 20 billion liras a month through the
one-month facility, up from 12 billion, it said today. Rates in
the auctions of one-month funding are generally higher than
shorter-term repos.  Preserving Flexibility  A “tight monetary stance should be maintained for a while
in order to keep the inflation outlook consistent with the
medium-term targets,” the bank said today. “Given the
prevailing uncertainties regarding the global economy it would
be appropriate to preserve the flexibility of the monetary
policy.”  Basci has focused on stabilizing the lira because its fall
last year helped drive  inflation  to 10.5 percent in December,
almost double the bank’s 5.5 percent target. The currency has
gained 3.2 percent this year and the bank said it’s stopping
daily sales of $50 million from tomorrow.  “The regular sales were about smoothing volatility and the
 exchange rate  has stabilized now,” Ozan Gaziturk, economist for
Sekerbank TAS in Istanbul, said by phone.  The bank is also conserving foreign-currency  reserves  that
declined to $77.2 billion in the week ended Jan. 13, equivalent
to less than four months of imports. Intraday sales of dollars
when they’re needed are more effective than regular auctions, it
said today.  Bond Yields  The currency was 0.7 percent weaker at 1.8301 per dollar
after today’s announcement. Yields on two-year lira bonds rose
10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 10.40 percent.  The lira depreciated 18 percent against the dollar last
year, the most among emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The currency will gain this year, Basci said Jan. 6.  Basci is keeping rates tight even as Israel and  Brazil  cut
borrowing costs this month to protect their economies against
the impact of the European debt crisis. Turkey’s economy
expanded 8.2 percent annually in the third quarter and Basci
says his goal is a “soft landing” from high rates of growth.  Inflation (TUCPIY)  accelerated to 10.5 percent in December from 4.9
percent at the start of 2011. While the rate may rise further in
the coming months, it will slow toward the 5 percent end-2012
goal later in the year, Basci said Jan. 6.  ‘Closely Watching’  The expectation for inflation in 12 months rose to 6.91
percent from 6.85 percent in the bank’s latest survey of
economists and executives, released on Jan. 20. The bank is
“closely watching” how inflation expectations behave, it said
after the last rates meeting on Dec. 22.  The lira has weakened on concern that  Turkey  may struggle
to finance its  current-account deficit . The gap narrowed in
November for the first time in two years, bringing the
cumulative 12-month total to $77.8 billion, still equivalent to
about 10 percent of gross domestic product.  Basci argues his tightening will help slow the credit
growth that’s driving imports of goods and raw materials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  