-- VMware Gains as Profit Tops Estimates: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-01-24T23:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/vmware-gains-after-profit-tops-estimates-san-francisco-mover.html
VMware Inc. (VMW)  shares jumped the most
in three months after the biggest maker of software that lets
computers run multiple operating systems reported sales and
profit that topped estimates, buoyed by corporate demand.  The stock  rose  7.7 percent to close at $92.66 in  New York ,
the biggest gain since Oct. 18. It fell 6.4 percent in 2011.  Customers are investing in VMware’s software as they seek
to run more programs on a single computer and set up servers and
storage devices to run corporate programs in the so-called
cloud. The results dispelled concern among investors that growth
for VMware’s virtualization software was slowing and that
economic concerns might hamper corporate purchases, said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group.  “These are very solid results,” said Marshall, who is
based in  San Francisco  and recommends buying VMware shares.
“Server virtualization is not dead. Growth is alive and well.”  VMware is majority-owned by  EMC Corp. (EMC)  Fourth-quarter profit
before certain costs was 62 cents a share, VMware said in a
statement yesterday. That beat the 60-cent average  estimate  of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 27 percent to $1.06
billion, above the $1.05 billion average prediction. First-
quarter revenue will be as much as $1.04 billion, compared with
analyst projections for $1.02 billion.  New Products  VMware, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , had said in October
some customers might slow spending on technology, leading it to
brace for a “challenging” 2012.  Still, the company is benefiting from sales of new
products, such as vSphere5 software, and contract renewals from
large businesses, Adam Holt, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote
in a note yesterday.  Net income in the fourth quarter rose to $200.4 million, or
46 cents a share, from $119.9 million, or 28 cents, a year
earlier, VMware said.  VMware Chief Financial Officer Mark Peek said the company
found corporate customers willing to spend their remaining
technology budgets in the fourth quarter, even as the credit
crisis in  Europe  made some businesses concerned about demand for
the current year.  “We had some concerns about the macroeconomic environment,
particularly in Europe, and whether or not customers would go
ahead and do the typical fourth-quarter budget flush,” he said
in an interview. “We believe they did.”  For the current year, customers are cautious but continuing
to spend, Peek said. The company’s forecast assumes conditions
don’t deteriorate from the second half of 2011, he said.  Sales for the full year will be $4.48 billion to $4.6
billion, the company said. Analysts on average had been
 predicting  $4.48 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  