-- Western Digital Rises as Sales Top Analysts’ Estimates: Los Angeles Mover
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-01-24T21:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/western-digital-rises-as-sales-top-estimates-los-angeles-mover.html
Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  rose the most
in seven weeks after reporting fiscal second-quarter sales that
topped analysts’ estimates, citing “substantial progress” in
recovering from flooding in  Thailand  that hurt production.  Shares of  Irvine , California-based  Western Digital  gained
6.3 percent to $36.88 at the close in New York, the most since
Dec. 2. The shares lost 8.7 percent last year.  On a conference call to discuss the results yesterday,
Chief Financial Officer Wolfgang Nickl forecast third-quarter
earnings, excluding some costs, of $1.15 to $1.45 a share, which
also topped the average analysts’ estimate of 90 cents.  “They should be in a position to make a lot more money
going forward, especially in the September quarter,”  Rajesh Ghai , a San Francisco-based analyst at ThinkEquity LLC, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s really a sign that
the hard disk-drive industry is on very strong footing at this
point and time and has clearly overcome the supply-demand
imbalance that it had in the past.”  While sales fell 19 percent to $2 billion in the three
months ended Dec. 30, the total topped the average estimate of
$1.84 billion in a Bloomberg survey of analysts. Net income
declined 36 percent to $145 million, or 61 cents a share.  Western Digital’s ability to make disk drives was impeded
last year after the worst Thai flooding in seven decades
devastated factories in the Asian country.  “While much work remains to be done over the next several
quarters to reach our pre-flood manufacturing capabilities, the
progress thus far is significantly ahead of our original
expectations,” Chief Executive Officer John Coyne said in a
statement.  Western Digital expects to complete the acquisition of
Hitachi Global Storage Technologies by March, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  