-- Yahoo’s Fourth-Quarter Revenue Misses Estimates as Advertising Demand Dips
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-01-25T21:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/yahoo-sales-miss-estimates-as-ad-demand-dips.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , the largest U.S. Web
portal, reported revenue and forecast sales that fell short of
estimates as ebbing demand for display advertising underscored
the challenge facing new Chief Executive Officer  Scott Thompson .  Excluding sales passed on to partner sites, fourth-quarter
revenue fell to $1.17 billion, Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo
said in a statement yesterday. That compares with $1.19 billion,
the average projection of analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Sales
in the current period will be $1.03 billion to $1.11 billion,
Yahoo said. Analysts had predicted $1.08 billion.  Web users are spending less time on Yahoo’s pages, instead
favoring such social networks as Facebook Inc. and search
results generated by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Display-ad buying was crimped
amid economic weakness in  Europe , Chief Financial Officer Tim Morse said in an interview. Thompson, who this month succeeded
the ousted  Carol Bartz , is attempting to reverse Yahoo’s market-
share losses and user defections while completing a strategic
review that may involve selling Asian assets.  “Yahoo’s results indicate sustained market-share losses
with no sign of turnaround,” said Clay Moran, an analyst at
Benchmark Co. in  Delray Beach ,  Florida . “Nothing here to
inspire hope. It just reconfirms what a major, uphill battle it
will be for Scott Thompson to turn this company around.”  In the U.S. online-advertising market, Yahoo’s share fell
to 11 percent in 2011 from 13 percent a year earlier, according
to EMarketer Inc. in New York.  ‘More Marginalized’  Yahoo’s display revenue declined 4 percent to $546 million
last quarter, after being unchanged in the third quarter,
according to yesterday’s report.  “Yahoo’s becoming more and more marginalized, from an
advertiser standpoint,” said  Martin Pyykkonen , an analyst at
Wedge Partners Corp. in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado . “It’s a
market that’s moved away from them.”  The  shares  fell 0.8 percent to $15.56 at the close in  New
York . They declined 3 percent last year.  Income from operations in the first quarter will be in the
range of $105 million to $155 million, Yahoo said, shy of the
$184.2 million projected by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Net income  attributable to the company fell to $295.6
million, or 24 cents a share, from $312 million, or 24 cents.  Thompson, whose tenure began on Jan. 9, was formerly the
president of  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal unit. There, he helped more than
double revenue at the payments service while boosting the user
base to more than 100 million.  Bartz, Yang  He’ll seek to avoid the missteps of predecessors, including
Bartz, who was on the job for less than three years. While she
cut costs by shuttering or selling underperforming businesses,
she was unable to increase revenue growth. The company announced
a strategic review in September when she was fired.  Co-founder  Jerry Yang , who preceded Bartz as CEO, came
under criticism from investors after the company rejected an
acquisition offer from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  for $47.5 billion in
2008. Yang earlier this month stepped down from the board and
all other positions, saying the “time had come” for him to
move on from the company he helped start in 1995.  With Yang out, the company could be more free to sell its
Asian assets, which include holdings in Alibaba Group Holding
Ltd. and Yahoo Japan Corp, according to Brett Harriss, an
analyst with Gabelli & Co.  ‘Big Potential’  Yahoo is still pursuing the sale of the holdings, while
also talking with private-equity firms about selling a minority
stake in itself, a person with knowledge of the matter said last
week. An Asian deal is more likely and may be concluded in the
coming weeks, the person said.  “It’s important for you to know that the company remains
open to anything that’s good for our shareholders,” Thompson
said on the conference call. “But as you’d expect, our
evaluating multiple options, we’re focusing on what appears most
promising.”  Yahoo investor Third Point LLC late last year asked for
Yang to step down as a board member. Third Point CEO  Daniel Loeb 
cited the “board’s inability -- or perhaps unwillingness -- to
properly solicit true strategic alternative bids, let alone to
negotiate them” in a November statement. Third Point had also
called for Chairman Roy Bostock to step down last year.  Thompson said he’s optimistic about Yahoo’s prospects.  “I am here because I believe there’s big potential at
Yahoo, much bigger than the outside world imagines for us
today,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  