-- Yahoo’s Options Volatility at ‘Breathtaking’ Low Before Earnings Report
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2012-01-24T12:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/yahoo-s-volatility-at-breathtaking-low-before-earnings-report.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  (YHOO) options traders are
pushing implied volatility to its lowest pre-earnings level in
two years as investors focus on the possibility that the largest
U.S. Internet portal will sell assets or be sold.  The key gauge of  options  prices for Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo fell to 33.67 yesterday, the lowest level since May
and the least for the day before an earnings release since
January 2010, according to data on 30-day contracts compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with a one-year average of 45.42.
Yahoo’s implied volatility was 17.03 points above the level for
the  Technology Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLK)  as of yesterday, 29
percent below the average.  Jerry Yang  last week exited the Yahoo board and its
management team, the latest casualty of an overhaul that led to
the ouster of Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz . Yahoo has
considered selling its stakes in its Asian partners, including
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., and has fielded proposals from
private equity groups to sell a stake in itself.  “It’s breathtaking how low the volatility is,” Ophir Gottlieb, managing director of client services at San Francisco-
based Livevol Inc., a provider of options-market analytics, said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “There’s so much going on
with Yahoo.”  The ratio of outstanding calls to buy versus puts to sell
rose to 2.48-to-1 on Jan. 20, the highest level since January
2009, according to Bloomberg data. February $16 calls had the
biggest increase in ownership in the last seven days, adding
34,337 contracts to 110,523, the data show. April $16 calls and
July $19 calls had the biggest open interest among all options.
The shares  declined  1.8 percent to $15.68 yesterday.  Chance of Sale  “People are only in this for the chance of Asian asset
sale or sale of the company,” Joe Kunkle, founder of
OptionsHawk.com, a Boston-based provider of options-market
analytics, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “They’ve
been targeting a move to $19.”  Analysts estimate the company will report a fourth-quarter
 profit  of 24 cents a share excluding some items, according to
the average of 27 projections in a Bloomberg survey. That would
be a 6.5 percent drop from the same period a year ago. Yahoo!’s
implied one-day earnings move is 3.9 percent, compared with an
average change of 4.2 percent the day after the last eight
quarterly releases.  Dana Lengkeek, a Yahoo spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the options trading.  “Volatility is low overall for earnings because Yahoo is
not an earnings story,” Alex Panagiotidis, managing director
for equity derivatives at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  New York ,
said in an interview yesterday. “It’s all about sell the
company or not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  