-- ‘G.I. Joe’ Sequel Tops U.S. Box Office With $41 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 2013-04-01T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/-g-i-joe-sequel-tops-u-s-box-office-with-41-million-in-sales.html
“ G.I. Joe : Retaliation,” a sequel
to the 2009 film about elite U.S. commandos, opened in first
place in U.S. and Canadian theaters, taking in $41.2 million for
 Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures .  “The Croods,” from  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , dropped
to second place from first with sales of $26.5 million,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. “The Host,” based on a novel from
“Twilight” author  Stephenie Meyer  was sixth in its debut with
$11 million.  Paramount released “G.I. Joe: Retaliation” on a weekend
with little competition for the young males who turn out for PG-
13 action adventures. The studio is getting a jump on a summer
release schedule crowded with other big-budget, action films
including new “ Iron Man ,” “ Star Trek ” and “Man of Steel”
films. “G.I. Joe” cost about $135 million to produce,
according to researcher Box Office Mojo.  “I think the quality of the films this year hasn’t matched
last year’s,” said  Jeff Bock , senior box office analyst at
Exhibitor Relations, in a telephone interview. “But, summer’s a
great equalizer.”  In the new “G.I. Joe” installment, the troops battle a
government plot to destroy their team, along with mortal enemy
Cobra.  Dwayne Johnson  stars as Joe team member Roadblock.
Adrianne Palicki plays trooper Lady Jaye and Channing Tatum
returns from the first film as Duke. The film cost about $135
million to make.  ‘The Croods’  “This is pretty huge for this time of year,” Bock said.  The picture was expected to generate $37.5 million in
opening sales, the forecast of Boxoffice.com. The film is based
on Hasbro Inc.’s action figures. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and David
Ellison’s Skydance Productions are co-producers.  “The Croods,” about a prehistoric family of cave
dwellers, features the voices of Nicolas Cage,  Emma Stone  and
 Ryan Reynolds . The film follows the sometimes dysfunctional
family, led by Cage’s character, as they seek a new life after a
shift in earth’s crust destroys their home.  DreamWorks Animation is looking for a comeback after “Rise
of the Guardians” flopped in November, resulting in an $87
million writedown for the Glendale, California-based studio.
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox distributes films for
DreamWorks Animation.  “I expect this one to hold up really well during the
spring, since there’s no major animated film expected until
Memorial Day,” Bock said.  ‘The Host’  “Tyler Perry’s Temptation,” also new this past week, was
third with $22.3 million. The film features Jurnee Smollett-Bell
as a marriage counselor who escapes boredom with her husband by
having an affair with a client. The movie, from  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , also features Vanessa Williams and  Kim
Kardashian . Perry wrote, directed and produced the movie.  “Olympus Has Fallen,” a thriller about terrorism from the
independent distributor FilmDistrict, fell to fourth from
second, taking in $14 million. Directed by Antoine Fuqua, the
movie features  Gerard Butler  as a Secret Service agent saving
America from a band of North Koreans who capture the White
House, shoot up  Washington  and threaten the president.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Oz the Great and Powerful” fell to
fifth from third with $11.6 million.  In “The Host,” Earth is invaded by parasitic aliens who
inhabit the bodies of humans. Saoirse Ronan plays a young woman
whose inner strength helps her wage a mental battle against the
entity seeking to control her body and mind. Max Irons,  Diane
Kruger  and William Hurt co-star.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films was virtually
unchanged at $140.8 million from the year-earlier weekend,
Hollywood.com said. Sales this year are down 12 percent to $2.27
billion. Attendance is down 13 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
March 29 and March 30, with estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  