-- Amazon Purchase of Goodreads Book-Review Site Irks Authors Group
-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-04-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/amazon-purchase-of-goodreads-book-review-site-irks-authors-group.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  is gaining too much
control in the publishing industry with its purchase of
Goodreads Inc., a social network for readers and a competitor in
online book reviews, an authors’ group says.  Goodreads, which allows users to add titles to virtual
bookshelves and track what friends are reading, has 16 million
members who have written more than 23 million reviews, Amazon
said in a March 28 statement. The company said the deal will
probably close in the second quarter and didn’t provide terms.  The site had potential to become an Internet bookseller to
compete with Amazon, the largest online retailer,  Scott Turow ,
president of the Authors Guild, said in an online  post  March 29.
Amazon began as an online bookseller in 1995 and is seeking to
spur virtual book sales through its Kindle e-readers. As readers
shift to digital content, publishers have said Amazon devalues
content with low prices that make it hard for them to compete.  “Recommendations from like-minded readers appear to be the
Holy Grail of online book marketing,” said Turow, whose legal
thrillers include “The Burden of Proof” and “Presumed
Innocent.” “By combining Goodreads’ recommendation database
with Amazon’s own vast databases of readers’ purchase histories,
Amazon’s control of online bookselling approaches the
insurmountable.”  Other Amazon acquisitions in the past decade that increase
its role in publishing include Audible Inc., an audiobook
seller, in 2008 and the 2011 buyout of British bookseller Book
Depository Ltd., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kindle Demand  The Kindle Fire HD tablet computer was Amazon’s most
popular item in 2012, the Seattle-based company said when it
posted fourth-quarter results in January. The line of Kindle
tablets and e-book readers held the top four spots on Amazon’s
worldwide best-seller list at year-end.  While the acquisition of Goodreads gives Amazon the ability
to help users find and review more books, that may not be so bad
for publishers, according to  Brian Blair , an analyst at  Wedge
Partners  in  New York .  “It strengthens Amazon’s book-selling capabilities because
it makes discovery of new books easier,” Blair said. “Making
good books easier to find and staying up with what your friends
are reading and enjoying is a good thing for all parties
involved, especially the consumer.”  Tom Forte , an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in New York,
said he also doesn’t see the purchase as a threat to publishers.  “This seems more like a better way to sell books on
Amazon than an opportunity to create another e-commerce book-
seller,” Forte said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  