-- America’s 4-Year-Olds Need More High-Quality Preschools
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-31T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/america-s-4-year-olds-need-more-high-quality-preschools.html
President  Barack Obama ’s call for
universal preschool exists more as  a noble aspiration  than as
something the White House can realistically expect the present
Congress to enact.  The idea is hardly far-fetched though. States are already
moving, if unevenly, to expand public pre-kindergarten classes.
Programs are taking root and spreading just as public
kindergartens did in the mid-20th century. In 2011,  28 percent 
of American 4-year-olds attended a public academic preschool, up
from 14 percent a decade earlier. Thirty-nine states offer some
kind of program and eight have more than half of their 4-year-
olds enrolled.  This trend should be encouraged, because preschool has been
shown to be effective in getting little kids started in school.
Experts may argue over how many years the academic benefits
last, but it’s clear that children who attend a decent preschool
 enter kindergarten  with sharpened cognitive skills. They’re also
better able to sit still and pay attention, work and play with
other kids, and regulate their own behavior. The  evidence  is
especially strong when it comes to poor and otherwise
disadvantaged children.  So the question is not so much whether more preschool is a
good idea. It’s how to expand it now -- even if it takes years
for a federal plan like Obama’s to materialize.  Quality Gap  The first priority should be to improve the quality of
existing preschools. In the best ones, fully credentialed
teachers, earning salaries on par with K-12 teachers, offer
carefully planned group and one-on-one experiences that let the
youngsters build vocabulary, learn about letters and numbers,
and play happily with one another. In the worst, teachers with
too many pupils and too little training either fail to engage
the children enough or push them beyond their capacity with
alphabet drills and strict discipline.  It wouldn’t be realistic or even desirable to suddenly hold
every classroom to the highest standards. But it is possible to
give training and support to preschool teachers who have never
had it. Many of those who lack a college degree in education are
nevertheless nurturing, responsive, capable people who mainly
need some help in understanding how to develop the post-toddler
mind. For example,  Texas , which has one of the largest state
preschool programs in the U.S., with 52 percent of 4-year-olds
enrolled,  offers its preschool teachers  training and curriculum
materials, feedback and coaching on their interactions with
children, and an incentive payment of $300 for participating in
the program.  In addition to improving existing preschools, governments
at every level should push to create more of them. Good
preschools not only help children get ready for school but also
attract business. Last year, San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro
 persuaded  business executives to endorse his effort to raise
city sales taxes to expand preschool.  The federal Education Department has been helping, too,
through its Race to the Top-Early Challenge, which is to
distribute  $133 million  in grants to five states to improve and
expand their preschool programs.  Obama’s Strategy  Obama’s  proposed program  would presumably do much more,
though the administration has yet to say how much it would cost.
The president has indicated, however, that he, too, is willing
to move gradually. The plan wouldn’t actually provide preschool
for all children but would begin with the poorest. (The proposal
would cover about 45 percent of the 4.1 million 4-year-olds in
the U.S.) Obama has said he would also let local school
districts and “other partner providers” of preschool take the
lead in deciding how to spend the money.  There will be those in Congress who say that the federal
government should be striving for less involvement, not more, in
traditionally local matters such as education. And the ever-
present  federal budget  deficit colors all proposals to spend
money.  Still, it would be a nice surprise if Congress would at
least consider it -- and even suggest improvements. Some
preschools, for example, may deserve support even if all their
teachers aren’t yet fully credentialed and if the teacher-
student ratio is not yet ideal. Such programs could be given
time to improve.  Policy makers at every level of government spend much time
debating how best to help older students. Improving the
education of America’s 4-year-olds would allow them to take a
crucial first step.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 