-- Mandela’s Condition Improves After Lung-Draining Procedure
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-03-31T19:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/mandela-remains-hospitalized-for-fourth-day-after-lung-procedure.html
Nelson Mandela’s condition improved
on the fourth day of his hospitalization after doctors drained
excess fluid from around his lungs, according to statements from
South African President Jacob Zuma’s office.  Mandela had a “restful day,” according to doctors, and
will continue to receive treatment, Zuma’s office said.  Mac Maharaj, a spokesman for Zuma’s office, yesterday said
that Mandela was breathing “without difficulty.” The nation’s
first black president has been hospitalized in the capital
 Pretoria  for pneumonia.  Mandela, 94, was admitted for his second hospital stay this
year before midnight local time on March 27, less than three
weeks after a check-up. His health took a “downturn” that day
and he was brought to the hospital to prevent the infection from
spreading, Maharaj told Johannesburg-based broadcaster eNCA on
March 28.  “We will be keeping him in our thoughts and prayers, and
his entire family,” U.S. President  Barack Obama  said after
meeting with African leaders in  Washington  on March 28,
according to a White House transcript. “He is as strong
physically as he’s been in character and in leadership over so
many decades, and hopefully he will come out of this latest
challenge.”  Mandela’s lung infection developed into a pleural effusion,
which was tapped, Maharaj said in a statement yesterday. He said
the former president was responding to treatment and was
comfortable.  The Nobel Peace Prize winner was hospitalized from Dec. 8
to 26 to treat a lung infection and have gallstones removed. He
contracted tuberculosis while imprisoned on Robben Island during
his 27-year incarceration for fighting white minority rule.  Mandela led South Africa for five years after the African
National Congress, or ANC, won the first all-race elections in
1994 that marked the end of apartheid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  