-- Argentina ‘Greek Tragedy’ Nears End as Debt Ruling Looms
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-01T20:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/argentina-greek-tragedy-nears-end-as-debt-ruling-looms.html
Argentina  may learn at any time
whether a U.S. appeals court will rule that it must pay
$1.4 billion to holders of its defaulted debt, something the
South American country has resisted for more than a decade.  The court in  New York  is set to rule after Argentina
submitted a payment proposal last week that would force holders
of defaulted bonds to take a steep discount on debt the nation
repudiated in its record 2001 default on $95 billion. With
further appeals unlikely to succeed, the ruling may be the last
word on the matter.  Argentina’s proposal largely ignored previous U.S. court
rulings and instead offered the type of restructuring deal that
has been rejected by holdout bondholders led by billionaire
hedge fund manager  Paul Singer  and his Elliott Management Corp.
unit NML Capital Ltd. The proposal sets up a possible collision
between Argentine politicians and U.S. judges that has been a
decade in the making.  “This has some Greek tragedy elements to it,” said Anna
Gelpern, a law professor at American University in  Washington 
who is an expert on government debt. “The parties are bound to
play along and succumb to their fates.”  Joshua Rosner , an
analyst at Graham Fisher & Co., said in an e-mailed note March
30 that Argentina’s last-minute proposal is the equivalent of
the nation “thumbing its nose at” the court.  Trigger Default  A decision forcing Argentina to pay the defaulted
bondholders immediately would expose it to $43 billion in
additional claims it can’t pay and trigger a new default, the
government has warned. The nation’s officials have also said
they may ignore the U.S. court altogether.  In its proposal, Argentina said it would give holders of
the repudiated bonds about one-sixth of what a U.S. judge has
said they’re entitled to receive. The country’s proposed plan,
filed March 29 -- one hour before a deadline set by the court
weeks ago -- offers two possibilities for holdout bondholders to
exchange their defaulted debt for new bonds.  “After taking the full month available to work on its
response, Argentina came back last night with a proposal for
exactly the same package that it had offered back in 2010,” Joe Kogan, head of emerging-market debt strategy at Scotia  Capital
Markets , said in a note March 30. Kogan said he expects the
country’s bonds to fall “upon news of Argentina’s continued
intransigence.”  ‘Argentine Consumption’  “The proposal itself appears intended for local Argentine
consumption,” Kogan said. Argentine officials said they will
submit a bill to their nation’s Congress to provide for the plan
to be implemented.  The government’s restructured notes due 2033 fell
1.09 cents to 52.66 cents on the dollar at 3:30 p.m. in New York
after earlier declining to 51.76 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the bonds jumped 33 basis
points, or 0.33 percentage point, to 16.81 percent, the highest
level on a closing basis since June 2009.  Though Argentina could file an appeal of any adverse ruling
by the three-judge appellate panel to a larger number of judges,
or the U.S.  Supreme Court , it’s unlikely to be granted either
because contract issues in the case were based on New York state
law. As a result, it’s improbable they would be reviewed by the
Supreme Court, said Henry Weisburg, an international litigator
at New York-based Shearman & Sterling LLP.  Argentina’s best bet for high court review may lie with the
Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, a federal law that limits
suits against foreign governments. However, Weisburg said it’s
unlikely the court will choose to consider the case on that
ground either.  ‘Vulture’ Investors  Argentina’s top leaders have vowed never to pay the  hedge
funds , which it calls “vulture” investors, that hold the debt.  Jonathan Blackman, the attorney for the South American
nation, has said Argentina would default on its restructured
debt if it’s forced by the panel to pay so-called vultures.  “So the answer is you will not obey any order but the one
you propose?” U.S. Circuit Judge Reena Raggi asked Blackman
during oral arguments in February.  “We would not voluntarily obey such an order,” Blackman
said, with Hernan Lorenzino, Argentina’s minister of economy,
and Vice President  Amado Boudou  sitting nearby.  Blackman argued that a lower-court order obliging Argentina
to pay the defaulted bonds whenever it makes payments on
restructured debt violated its sovereignty, threatens to trigger
a new financial crisis and would quadruple the number of
Argentine bond cases in New York federal court.  ‘Court’s Decision’  “If that’s the confrontation the court seeks with the
injunctions, that is the court’s decision,” Blackman said.
“We’re representing a government and governments will not be
told to do things that fundamentally violate their principles.”  The holdout creditors are seeking to uphold rulings by U.S.
District Judge Thomas Griesain  Manhattan , who has presided over
the case for a decade. Griesa has ruled that Argentina must pay
holdouts the full amount they’re owed whenever it makes a
required payment to the holders of the exchange bonds.  The Exchange Bondholder Group, which took the deal offered
by Argentina for their bonds, claimed the ruling threatens their
investment.  “We’re innocent parties,” attorney  David Boies  argued for
the Exchange Bondholder Group at the oral arguments. Griesa’s
order shouldn’t apply to restructured debt holders, he said.  ‘Exist Unchanged’  “If you allow Judge Griesa’s injunction to exist
unchanged, everybody in this courtroom knows what’s going to
happen,” Boies argued. “Argentina is going to default.”  In a related case, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  said March 26
that it won’t grant a full-court reconsideration of an earlier
ruling barring Argentina from treating restructured-debt holders
more favorably than holders of the repudiated debt.  In November, Griesa quizzed a lawyer for Argentina about
press statements by President Cristina Fernandez De Kirchner and Lorenzino that the republic wouldn’t pay “vulture funds.”  “I don’t know literally what the intentions of the
republic are,” Griesa said in the Nov. 9 hearing. “But I have
had some modest amount of experience, and that is that the
republic will not comply with the judgments which have been
entered against it.”  The three judges on the appeals panel are Rosemary Pooler,
appointed by President  Bill Clinton ; and Barrington Parker and
Raggi, both named to the court by  George W. Bush .  Holdouts’ Gain  In a press conference March 30 in  Buenos Aires , Boudou said
the country won’t issue more debt to repay old debt as part of
its proposal. The Argentina vice president said the Griesa
ruling it’s fighting would mean a 1,300 percent gain in five
years for holdouts.  According to Argentina, the payment formula it’s
challenging, set by Griesa, would give NML Capital $720 million.
That compares with an estimated value of $120.6 million for NML
under one of the payment alternatives the nation is proposing,
the so-called discount option.  “Argentina’s proposal accounts for past-due amounts to
bring the debt current, provides for a fair return going
forward, and also gives an upside in the form of annual payments
if Argentina’s economy grows,” the country’s lawyers said in
its proposal. It “fulfills the court’s dual objectives to
satisfy the pari passu clause: non-discrimination in payment
priority and equal treatment among bondholders.”  Deep Discount  In 2005 and 2010, Argentina offered its creditors new
bonds, at a deep discount. About 91 percent of bondholders
agreed to the debt restructuring, or exchange.  NML and other holdouts have tried to use U.S. courts to
enforce their rights under the original bond agreements.  In its proposal to the court, Argentina estimated that NML
paid $48.7 million for the bonds in 2008.  “The formula adopted by the district court would cause
great harm to the exchange bondholders while giving plaintiffs a
return that is exorbitant on its face,” Argentina said.  Argentina’s legislature in 2005 passed a so-called lock law
barring payment on the defaulted bonds.  Under Argentina’s proposal, a so-called par option, which
is intended for small accountholders, would give bondholders new
bonds due in 2038 in a nominal face amount equal to the amount
of their defaulted debt, plus unpaid interest up to the end of
2001. The par bonds would pay interest that rises from
2.5 percent to 5.25 percent a year over the life of the bonds.
They would also receive a one-time cash payment to compensate
for interest they would have earned if the bonds had been issued
on Dec. 31, 2003, according to the letter.  Additional Payments  The holders would receive additional payments when
Argentine gross domestic product growth exceeds about 3 percent
a year, the government said in the letter.  The discount option would give bondholders discount bonds
due in 2033, less than the defaulted amount, with an
8.28 percent annual rate and an increase in principal over time.
They would be compensated for past due interest on those bonds
with new bonds due in 2017 that pay 8.75 percent annually,
according to the letter.  The holders would also receive GDP-tied payments, according
to the proposal.  “It is our hope that the plaintiffs will finally join the
92 percent of creditors, accept this fair and equitable offer
and put this difficult period to rest,” said Sean O’Shea, a
lawyer for the exchange bondholders, in an e-mailed statement
March 30.  Better Terms  Argentina said its proposal wouldn’t allow the plaintiffs
in the lawsuit to force it to offer payment on better terms than
those received by bondholders who agreed to the restructuring.  Eugenio Bruno, an attorney at the Buenos Aires law firm
Estudio Garrido, said in an e-mail that Argentina’s proposal is
similar to past debt-restructuring offers by the country that
have been rejected by NML and the other holdouts.  If the government were to offer a better deal, it would
trigger provisions allowing holders of the exchange bonds to
take advantage of more favorable terms offered to the holdouts,
he said.  Bruno represents Alfonso Prat-Gay, a former governor of
Argentina’s central bank, who submitted a brief in the case
supporting his country’s effort to overturn the lower U.S. court
ruling. Bruno said he also advises exchange bondholders and
holdouts who aren’t involved in litigation.  Following the oral arguments, the three-judge panel ordered
Argentina March 1 to provide a suggested formula for paying the
creditors. Argentina’s lawyer, at the Feb. 27 arguments in
Manhattan, “appeared to propose” an alternative to the payment
formula devised by Griesa, according to the appeals court.  The judges may ask for a response from the creditors to the
new proposal, or come to a decision without one.  The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 08-cv-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan). The appeal is NML Capital Ltd. v.
Republic of Argentina, 12-00105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  