-- Beijing, Shanghai Add to Home Curbs as China Acts to Cool Market
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-31T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/beijing-shanghai-add-to-home-curbs-as-china-acts-to-cool-market.html
China’s largest cities, including
Beijing and  Shanghai , tightened rules on home purchases after
the nation asked local governments to step up efforts to cool
the  property market .  Beijing, the capital, banned single-person households from
buying more than one residence while Shanghai prohibited banks
from giving credit to third-home buyers, according to the local
administration websites. The two cities will also enforce a 20
percent tax on  capital gains  from property sales.  “This will help calm people’s panic about home prices,”
said  Yi Xianrong , a Beijing-based researcher at the  Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences , which advises the Cabinet. “At the
same time, restrictions on home purchases don’t change the
fundamental demand, and it seems the new measures in Beijing are
aimed more at short-term problems rather than long-term healthy
development of the property market.”  Home prices in the capital jumped 5.9 percent from a year
earlier in February, the biggest increase in two years, China’s
National Bureau of Statistics said March 18. Costs across the
country rose 160 percent in 1998-2011 after ownership passed
into private hands, government data show.  The city administration of Shanghai, where new home prices
in February rose 3.4 percent from a year earlier, also said it
will increase down-payment requirements and  interest rates  for
second-home mortgages. Shenzhen, Guangzhou, Chongqing, Tianjin
and Jinan have also published details on the housing curbs.  Shenzhen Measures  Shenzhen will limit home price increases to the growth rate
of per capita disposable income this year, according to a
statement on the city’s government website yesterday. The city
will adjust down-payment requirements and interest rates on
loans for second-home purchases “when necessary,” it said.  The measures come a month after former Premier  Wen Jiabao ,
during his last days in office, ordered the central bank to
raise down-payment requirements for second mortgages in cities
with excessive cost gains and told local governments with the
biggest price pressures to tighten home-purchase limits.  China has “very serious” property-market bubbles in some
regions, Xiang Songzuo, chief economist of  Agricultural Bank of
China , told a forum in Beijing on March 29. The nation’s real-
estate curbs have seen “very limited” results because the
steps were meant to slow demand, while policy makers should
instead focus on boosting supply, Xiang said.  The measures announced by Beijing will damp local property
trading in the next six months, Hu Jinhui, vice president of
Bacic & 5i5j, the city’s second-biggest real estate broker, said
in a statement.  “ Home prices  will firstly stop rising before a possible
moderation in the second half,” Hu said.  Beijing, a city of about 20 million residents and a magnet
for migrants from other provinces, has been implementing other
rules including banning residents from buying more than two
homes. Shanghai has been banning unmarried non-locals from
buying homes in the city.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  