-- Codelco Suffers ’Substantial’ Loss as Protests Halt Largest Mine
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-03-31T22:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/codelco-suffers-substantial-loss-as-protests-halt-largest-mine.html
Codelco is experiencing
“substantial” losses as protesters force  Chile ’s state-owned
copper producer to stop operations at its most productive mine,
Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Keller  said.  Codelco on March 30 said it declared force majeure at its
Radomiro Tomic mining division in northern Chile after workers
protested the company’s response to an accident that took the
life of a worker a week earlier. The company is investigating
the accident and is open to negotiation to end the stoppage,
Keller told reporters in Santiago yesterday afternoon.  The company isn’t concerned that it will miss mid-term
supply commitments and instead is focused on establishing trust
with workers, Keller said. His comments came just hours after
the country’s copper workers’ federation threatened to expand
the protests to all Codelco operations, which account for more
than 1/10th of the world’s copper supply from mines.  “Radomiro Tomic traditionally contributes the most to the
company’s profits, so effectively the resources we stop
generating are substantial,” Keller said. “Our concern right
now, before we start calculating how much this truly is costing,
is restarting activities as soon as possible. But the resources
are notable.”  The Radomiro Tomic mine in the Atacama Desert produced
427,800 tons last year, or about 25 percent of the company’s
total. Output also has declined at Codelco’s third-most
productive division, Chuquicamata, which processes mineral from
Radomiro Tomic, copper federation representative Juan Olguin
said by phone yesterday morning.  ‘Stronger Stance’  “We are taking a stronger stance and may protest
nationwide,” Olguin said. “Executives responsible for the
accident must permanently leave their posts. We don’t want to
see them leave only to return.”  Julio Aranis Vargas, vice president of northern operations,
temporarily replaced Radomiro Tomic manager Francisco Carvajal,
Codelco said in a  statement  posted on its website March 30.
Carvajal’s decision to resign as mine manager was his own and he
will remain within the company, Keller said yesterday.  Codelco also is facing trouble exporting metal, as
unionized port workers on March 16 started protests at the
Angamos port for better working conditions. The company said
March 28 it had stored about 30,000 tons that was due to be
shipped from the Pacific Coast facility.  The setbacks come as Keller embarks on a plan to spend $25
billion over the coming decade to revamp Codelco’s mines, some
of which are a century old. Codelco produced 1.76 million metric
tons of copper last year, a 2 percent decline from 2011.  With the investments, Codelco can exceed production of 2
million tons. Without it, output will slump to 800,000 tons, as
ore quality declines at sites such as Chuquicamata, the company
has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  