-- Democratic Senators Say Deal Possible on Gun Background Checks
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-04-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/democratic-senators-say-deal-possible-on-gun-background-checks.html
Democratic senators said lawmakers
could still reach agreement on expanded background checks for
firearm sales, while Republicans said they wouldn’t support
extending rules to gun shows or private sellers.  “There is a sensible compromise that we can reach on
background checks,” Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Connecticut
Democrat who has pushed for tighter controls since the mass
shooting at an elementary school in his state, said yesterday on
CNN. “That unspeakable tragedy, I think, created an unstoppable
momentum. History is on our side.”  Almost four months after the mass shooting at Sandy Hook
Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, prospects for
President Barack Obama’s gun-safety agenda have faded amid
opposition in Congress and waning public enthusiasm for several
of the initiatives.  Last week Obama sought to revive momentum, urging lawmakers
to pass legislation to expand background checks on gun buyers,
ban civilian sales of military-style rifles and limit the
ammunition capacity of magazines.  Senate leaders have ruled out the assault-weapons ban and
magazine limits. Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat,
said yesterday he was working with pro-gun lawmakers to write
background-check language acceptable to both sides.  “It’s very hard,” Schumer said on NBC’s “Meet the
Press.” “We’re working hard.”  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, said
on CNN that legislation that would require background checks on
all gun buyers “is going nowhere.”  Filibuster Vow  Graham said that he wouldn’t join others in his party who
have vowed to filibuster gun-control bills unless Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada “did not allow alternative
amendments.”  Republican senators including Marco Rubio of Florida said
in a March 22  letter  to Reid that they “intend to oppose any
legislation” that infringes on the right to bear arms or the
ability of Americans to do so “without being subjected to
government surveillance.” The letter also was signed by  Rand Paul  of Kentucky,  Mike Lee  of Utah and  Ted Cruz  of Texas.  Blumenthal, speaking on CNN’s “State of the Union,” said
yesterday that a compromise could still be reached that includes
“all purchases of firearms, but record-keeping that is
sensible, imposes no unfair burdens, and no unfair threats of
prosecution to people who may legitimately lose those records.”  Senator Jeff Flake, an  Arizona  Republican, said on “Meet
the Press” that while he couldn’t support universal background
checks, “We do need to strengthen the background-check
system.”  Sandy Hook  Graham said in the CNN appearance that a more extensive
system wouldn’t have prevented the December 14 killing of 20
children and six educators at Sandy Hook Elementary School by
Adam Lanza.  “Nothing we’re talking about would have prevented Newtown
from happening,” Graham said. “The guy did not fail a
background check.”  Obama spoke March 28 as investigators in Connecticut
disclosed new details about the massacre and as  Mayors Against
Illegal Guns , which supports gun control, began a campaign of
rallies,  television advertisements  and news briefings. The
mayor’s group is led by Boston’s Thomas Menino and New York’s
 Michael Bloomberg . The mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, parent of  Bloomberg News .  Authorities in Connecticut said that Lanza, 20, spent less
than five minutes in the school building before taking his own
life. Connecticut Governor  Dan Malloy  said by e-mail last week
that Lanza used legally purchased high-capacity magazines and
“left the lower-capacity magazines at home.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  