-- Egypt’s ‘Jon Stewart’ Turns Himself in on Islam Insult
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-03-31T15:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/egypt-satirist-turns-himself-in-over-allegations-of-islam-insult.html
An Egyptian political satirist was
ordered released on bail hours after turning himself in for
questioning over allegations he insulted Islam and President
Mohamed Mursi.  Authorities issued an arrest warrant yesterday for Bassem
Youssef, dubbed “ Egypt ’s  Jon Stewart ,” after complaints over
comments he made about Islam and Mursi in his “ Al Bernameg ”
television program in February. Bail was set at 15,000 Egyptian
pounds ($2,200), according to a prosecution statement.  “We are not the ones who insult religion,” Youssef said
in a phone interview late yesterday on CBC television. “If
there is anyone who has insulted religion, it is those who use
Islam as a weapon for political reasons.”  The case has magnified accusations by Mursi’s critics that
his regime seeks to limit rights, including of freedom of
expression, and crack down on detractors. It will also provide
ammunition for activists who accuse the prosecutor, appointed by
Islamist-backed Mursi, of a double standard in dealing with
complaints about the president’s opponents compared with those
against his supporters.  “The lack of independence of the Egyptian judiciary, as is
generally the case elsewhere in the Arab world, makes it a tool
in the hands of those in power to pursue and punish their
opponents,” Cairo-based human-rights lawyer Gamal Eid said by
phone today.  Test Case  “Bassem’s case is in big part a trial balloon,” Eid said.
“If it goes through without a popular backlash despite his wide
popularity, it will be easy to go after a long list of
opponents.”  Hassan Yassin, a spokesman for the prosecutor general,
didn’t answer calls seeking comment. Mursi has repeatedly said
he respects the independence of the judiciary and is committed
to freedoms, including of the press.  On his way to the building housing the prosecution office,
Youssef was forced to squeeze through supporters chanting
“Bassem, Bassem,” as they gathered in solidarity.  A medical doctor, Youssef shot to fame after the 2011
uprising that pushed  Hosni Mubarak  from power. Youssef’s program
is similar in style to U.S. comedian Stewart’s “the  Daily
Show ,” on which he has appeared.  The format of “Al Bernameg,” meaning “the Program,”
combines political commentary and spoof interviews. It includes
digs at Egypt’s politicians, members of the media and other
public personalities, at times juxtaposing their current
positions with contradictory statements they have made in the
past. Videos of Mursi and other Islamists have featured
prominently On Youssef’s show.  ElBaradei Comments  “Pathetic efforts to smother dissent and intimidate
media” are “a sign of a shaky regime and a bunker mentality,”
opposition leader and Nobel laureate Mohamed ElBaradei wrote on
Twitter.  Talaat Ibrahim, the prosecutor general, will appeal a court
ruling annulling his appointment by Mursi, the state-run  news
agency  said yesterday. The legal battle over Ibrahim’s selection
for the job is among disputes between Mursi and the courts,
which Islamists have claimed are biased against them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  