-- Yen Rises to Almost Four-Week High on Safety Demand
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-04-01T21:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/euro-remains-lower-monthly-drop-on-weakening-economy.html
The yen climbed to the strongest
level in almost four weeks against the dollar after a gauge of
U.S. manufacturing expanded less than forecast, adding to haven
demand and damping bets the  Federal Reserve  might slow its bond-
buying under quantitative easing.  The euro fell versus the yen before data tomorrow that may
show unemployment in the bloc climbed to a record, two days
before the  European Central Bank  announces an interest-rate
decision.  Australia ’s dollar reached a one-week low as  China ’s
factory output trailed estimates. Japan’s currency climbed
versus all of its 16 most-traded peers before the nation’s
central bank opens a policy meeting this week.  “Most of what you’re seeing today is really based off the
back of the poorer-than-expected U.S. numbers,” Douglas Borthwick, a managing director and head of foreign exchange at
Chapdelaine FX in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “Any
expectation of the U.S. stepping back from QE should be tempered
somewhat.”  The Japanese currency appreciated 1.1 percent to 93.23 yen
per dollar at 5 p.m. in New York and reached 93.16, the
strongest since March 6. The yen gained 0.8 percent to 119.79
per euro and touched 119.51, the highest since Feb. 27. The euro
strengthened 0.2 percent to $1.2849 after falling earlier as
much as 0.4 percent.  BOJ Meeting  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda will preside over
his first policy meeting April 3-4. He said in testimony to
parliament last week he wants to achieve a 2 percent inflation
target in two years. The BOJ needs to tackle deflation
decisively and will take all necessary actions, Kuroda said in
the text of a speech.  “Obviously the big move today is in yen,”  Greg Anderson ,
North America head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup
Inc., said by telephone from New York. “You can interpret that
as the market backing off of their yen shorts ahead of the BOJ.
It wouldn’t shock me too much to see this continue, and you
might even get to 92.50.” Short positions are bets a currency
will weaken.  The yen lost 4.2 percent over the past three months against
nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 0.2 percent, and the dollar
appreciated 3.2 percent.  Traders increased bets against the yen and the euro in the
week ended March 26. The difference in the number of wagers by
 hedge funds  and other large speculators on a decline in the yen
compared with those on an advance, so-called net shorts, was
89,149, up from 79,993 over the previous week, according to
figures from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Bearish
bets on the euro climbed to 49,095 over the same period, the
most since the week ended Nov. 30.  Fed Bets  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.5 percent today.
Financial markets in  Europe , Australia and  Hong Kong  were closed
for holidays.  The euro rose versus the dollar amid bets the Fed won’t be
quick to taper monetary stimulus after the manufacturing data,
said  Sebastien Galy , a foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in New York.  The U.S. central bank is buying $85 billion of bonds a
month under its QE strategy to spur growth, which may debase the
dollar. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , told reporters March 20
after a policy meeting the pace of asset purchases may be
altered if the economy continues to heal.  Factory Figures  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory  index fell to
51.3 in March, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s figures showed.
The 2.9-point decline was the biggest since July 2011. The gauge
reached 54.2 in February, the highest level since June 2011.
Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and contraction. A
Bloomberg survey forecast a reading of 54.  Australia’s dollar reached the lowest since March 21 versus
its U.S. peer after a gauge tracking  manufacturing  in China, the
South Pacific nation’s biggest trading partner, was at 50.9 last
month, trailing a Bloomberg survey forecast of 51.2. The Aussie
was little changed at $1.0423 after falling earlier to $1.0386.  The  Hungarian forint  advanced versus most of 31 major
counterparts after the  International Monetary Fund  said the
country should pause with monetary easing. It strengthened 0.3
percent to 236.51 to the dollar.  Unemployment in the euro area probably climbed to a record
12 percent in February, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before the European Union’s statistics office
releases the report tomorrow.  ECB Outlook  ECB President  Mario Draghi  and his fellow policy makers
will probably keep the euro area’s benchmark interest rate at a
record-low 0.75 percent at a meeting April 4, according to
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We think that the euro will remain under pressure,”
Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist in New York at
Credit Agricole SA, said in a telephone interview. “Weaker
growth and inflation expectations in Europe will probably lead
Draghi to sound more dovish this week.”  The euro now has a bearish bias, having fallen below a
support zone from $1.2840 to $1.2870,  Niall O’Connor , a
technical analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, wrote
today in a note to clients. The shared currency may decline to
$1.2660, O’Connor said, which would be its weakest level since
Sept. 7. Support is an area on a chart where analysts anticipate
buy orders may be clustered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  