-- Texas District Attorney Is Killed, 2nd in County in Two Months
-- B y   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2013-03-31T17:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/texas-district-attorney-is-killed-2nd-in-county-in-two-months.html
Mike McLelland, the suburban  Dallas 
district attorney who promised to prosecute those who killed co-
worker and Assistant District Attorney Mark Hasse in January,
was himself killed yesterday along with his wife, Cynthia,
according to news reports.  The Kaufman County Sheriff’s Department is holding a news
conference at 1 p.m. local time on the slayings.  Officials are speculating that the killing of the
McLellands in their home near Forney,  Texas , is related to the
shooting of Hasse, who was killed Jan. 31 near his car near the
Kaufman County Courthouse.  It “appears to be a targeted act” on the McLellands,
Forney Mayor Darren Rozell told  The Dallas Morning News . The
Texas Department of Public Safety issued a statewide bulletin in
December warning that the Aryan Brotherhood was “actively
planning retaliation against law enforcement officials” that
helped indict members of the group in Houston, the Morning News
said.  McLelland, 63, had vowed to find the people who killed
Hasse during a press conference after a Feb. 9 memorial service
for the assistant  district attorney .  “We’re going to pull you out of whatever hole you’re in,”
McLelland said during the televised event. “We’re going to bring
you back and let the people of Kaufman County prosecute you to
the fullest extent of the law. Anything that you people can do
to accelerate getting our hands on this scum will be
appreciated.”  Kaufman County, a mostly rural area southeast of Dallas,
has about 106,000 residents. The McLellands lived about 26 miles
east of Dallas near Forney in a home with a publicly listed
address.  Cynthia McLelland was 65 and worked as a psychiatric nurse
at Terrell State Hospital, according to the Morning News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Holley in  New York  at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  