-- Texas District Attorney Killed, 2nd in County in Two Months
-- B y   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2013-03-31T21:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/texas-district-attorney-killed-2nd-in-county-in-two-months-1-.html
The Kaufman County Sheriff’s
Department said it hasn’t ruled out further violence after
district attorney Mike McLelland was killed in his home
yesterday, the second death of a Dallas-area prosecutor in two
months.  McLelland, who promised to catch those who killed co-worker
and Assistant District Attorney Mark Hasse in January, was
himself shot along with his wife, Cynthia.  “It’s pretty obvious that it’s unnerving,” said Sheriff
David A. Byrnes during a televised news conference. “It’s
unnerving to the law enforcement community. It’s unnerving to
the community at large.”  The McLellands were found shot shortly after 6 p.m.
yesterday in the home they own in the Shamrock Ridge Estates
community near Forney, Texas, a rural area southeast of Dallas.  Bruce Wood, who was elected to a county administrative
position in 2010 along with McLelland and talked with him
several times a week, said the McLellands’ house was surrounded
by investigators, family and friends when he visited last night.  “It was a very somber crowd, very respectful crowd -- just
people wondering, ‘How in the world did this happen?’” Wood
said in a telephone interview.  Some officials are speculating that the slaying of the
McLellands is related to the shooting of Hasse, who was killed
Jan. 31 by his car near the Kaufman County Courthouse.  Targeted Attack  “I’m really trying to get across to the Forney community
that this was not a random attack; it was a targeted attack,”
Forney Mayor Darren Rozell said in a telephone interview. “I’m
trying to approach it the very way I’m asking the community to
approach it. We need to have faith in the investigators.”  Rozell said he doesn’t believe the community at large is at
risk.  The Dallas Morning News , citing an unidentified law-
enforcement official, described the scene at the McLellands’
home.  “There are shell casings everywhere,” the official told
the newspaper. “This is unprecedented. This is unbelievable.”  Byrnes, during the news conference, said he couldn’t say
whether the murder of Hasse was connected to the killing of the
McLellands.  “We have nothing indicating that for sure,” Byrnes said.  Rangers, FBI  The sheriff’s office is working with the  Texas Rangers  and
the Federal Bureau of Investigation on the case.  There will be increased security at the Kaufman County
Courthouse tomorrow, he said. The sheriff’s office is “taking
precautions” to protect other elected officials, he said.  Byrnes said his office is considering that there may be
more attacks on other elected officials. He said that Mike
McLelland hadn’t expressed concern about his safety directly to
him.  McLelland, 63, had vowed to find the people who killed
Hasse during a press conference after a Feb. 9 memorial service
for the assistant district attorney.  “We’re going to pull you out of whatever hole you’re in,”
McLelland said during the televised event. “We’re going to
bring you back and let the people of Kaufman County prosecute
you to the fullest extent of the law. Anything that you people
can do to accelerate getting our hands on this scum will be
appreciated.”  Kaufman County, a mostly rural area, has about 106,000
residents. The McLellands lived about 26 miles east of Dallas
near Forney in a home with a publicly listed address.  Cynthia McLelland was 65 and worked as a psychiatric nurse
at Terrell State Hospital, according to the Morning News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Holley in  New York  at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  