-- Fortescue Metals Supports Internationalization of China’s Yuan
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-03-31T05:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/fortescue-metals-supports-internationalization-of-china-s-yuan.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ,
Australia’s third-biggest iron ore producer, said it welcomes
policies that promote the use of  China ’s  yuan  in global trade,
following a report Australia was set to sign a conversion deal.  “Fortescue welcomes the ongoing internationalization of
the yuan, which is becoming an increasingly important currency
in global trade,” the Perth-based company said today in
response to a Bloomberg request for comment. “We also support
policies that deepen Australia’s engagement with our largest
trading partner.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  may seek a deal enabling
direct conversion of Australian dollars into Chinese currency
when she visits China next week, the Australian newspaper
reported yesterday. Currently companies exporting goods to China
have to convert the Australian dollar into U.S. currency or yen,
and then into yuan, incurring extra charges.  During fiscal 2012, 97 percent of Fortescue’s iron ore
sales came from China, the biggest importer of the steelmaking
raw material.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest miner and
Australia’s second-biggest iron ore exporter, declined to
comment ahead of a deal being announced, according to an e-mail.  China Visit  Gillard will attend the Boao Forum, which runs from April 6
to April 8, and visit cities including Shanghai and Beijing, the
Australian newspaper  reported , without saying where it got the
information. Darrin Barnett, a spokesman for the prime minister,
confirmed Gillard would attend the forum, declining to comment
on the currency conversion deal or full itinerary.  China remained  Australia ’s top trading partner in January,
even as transactions slid to A$9.9 billion ($10 billion), the
lowest since September, according to figures from the
government’s statistics bureau. Australia’s business sector has
been seeking a deal for some time and a pact will help reduce
costs, said Arthur Sinodinos, shadow parliamentary secretary to
the leader of the opposition, according to the Australian
Broadcasting Corp. website.  The Australian dollar closed at $1.0419 in Sydney on March
29. It rose 1.8 percent last year against the greenback. The so-
called Aussie has surged as demand for the nation’s resources
from China and India set off a record mining boom.  Internationalization of the yuan, China’s currency, is in
the interests of Australian businesses and the nation’s economy,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in July. Japan last year started to
use its currency in direct trading with China.  The central banks of China and Australia signed a A$30
billion currency swap agreement to ensure the availability of
capital between the trading partners, the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia said in March 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  