-- Fracking Debut Nears in Boost to Reliance, ONGC: Corporate India
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-04-01T04:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/fracking-debut-nears-in-boost-to-reliance-ongc-corporate-india.html
India  will allow explorers including
 Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  and  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  to produce
shale oil and gas for the first time as Asia’s second-biggest
energy consumer seeks to cut reliance on imports.  Under a new policy aimed at boosting domestic output of
fossil fuels, companies will be allowed to extract oil and gas
from shale rocks in more than 250 blocks the government has
already given out, said Vivek Rae, the top civil servant in the
oil ministry. The new rules will allow ONGC, the nation’s
biggest, to start shale output almost immediately and in
“substantial quantity” in about three years, Chairman Sudhir Vasudeva said.  India, which currently doesn’t allow exploitation of shale
rocks, is trying to emulate the U.S., where a boom has
reinvigorated industry and is leading the world’s largest
economy toward energy independence. The technology that requires
drillers to smash rocks forcing millions of gallons of water and
chemicals through cracks may help Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
meet his goal of slashing the energy import bill by 50 percent
in seven years and to zero by 2030, even as global regulators
assess pollution risks from hydraulic fracturing, or fracking.  “We want to get the process started, to enable companies
to at least start producing from fields where they’re already
drilling for conventional oil and gas,” Oil Secretary Rae said
in an interview. “This is the first phase, and we’ll later open
up more areas.”  Cabinet Approval  The oil ministry plans to take the new shale gas policy to
Singh’s cabinet for approval in about a week, he said. The
government will later auction blocks specifically for shale oil
and gas production, he said, without elaborating.  Singh’s administration is seeking to revive domestic energy
 production  as import costs surged to a record $140 billion in
the year ended March 31, 2012, or about 8 percent of  gross
domestic product . Securing fuel supplies is key to restoring the
pace of economic growth to a targeted 10 percent, from an
estimated 5 percent this year, the slowest in a decade.  India may still be at least three years away from large
scale commercial production from shale rocks as explorers study
data in their fields, while output from these formations is
cutting imports in the U.S. and companies including  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  France ’s  Total SA (FP)  explore the fuel in China.  Clarity Needed  “A lot of clarity is required on gas pricing and fiscal
incentives in the new policy,” said Mayur Patel, a Chennai-
based analyst with Spark Capital Advisors, who has a buy rating
on ONGC. “While production from shale in the extant producing
blocks will be relatively quicker, land acquisition and water
supply issues would hinder development of new blocks.”  Shares of ONGC have risen 17 percent this year compared
with a 3 percent decline in the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex. (SENSEX)  The
stock gained as much as 1.1 percent and traded 0.4 percent
higher at 312.50 rupees as of 9:17 a.m. in Mumbai.  France has banned fracking on concern the process
contaminates underground water supply, while  Germany  proposes to
outlaw the procedure in protected areas of the country. In the
U.S., a surge in gas production from shale rocks from  Texas  to
 West Virginia  made it the world’s biggest producer of the fuel
in 2009, beating Russia.  The American Chemistry Council estimates low-cost natural
gas may generate $72 billion in  capital investment  as
petrochemical companies relocate or boost spending in the U.S.  Additional Wells  ONGC, which holds the most oil and gas acreages in India,
will have to drill additional wells and build more pipelines to
transport the gas, Vasudeva said. Shale oil and gas may be
present in 10 basins in India, he said.  India holds  6.1 trillion cubic feet  of technically
recoverable shale gas reserves in three basins, the  U.S.
Geological Survey  estimated in a report in January last year.
That was less than 10 percent of the 63 trillion cubic feet
estimate made the previous year, by the U.S. Energy Information
Administration in a  report .  “The USGS study was limited to three basins in India and
the real potential is probably higher than that,” Vasudeva
said. “We are in the process of examining and validating
them.”  ONGC found shale gas at a well in India’s West Bengal
state, according to a Jan. 27, 2011, statement. The company
signed an agreement with  ConocoPhillips (COP)  in March last year for
developing shale resources in India and North America.  Record Deficit  Higher oil imports are a reason India’s  current-account
deficit  rose to an unprecedented $32.6 billion in the three
months to Dec. 31, or 6.7 percent of gross domestic product.  “We need to do all we can to reduce this import bill and
help boost the economy,” Oil Minister Veerappa Moily told
reporters in New Delhi March 24. “Increasing exploration to
find more oil and gas is the starting place.”  China has 25.08 trillion cubic meters (886 trillion cubic
feet) of exploitable onshore shale-gas reserves, according to
the country’s land ministry. The world’s biggest energy consumer
aims to produce 6.5 billion cubic meters of shale gas by 2015
and set a target of 60 billion to 100 billion cubic meters by
2020, according to the National Development and Reform
Commission.  Higher shale gas production will be a boost for Reliance
Industries which has been struggling to reverse an almost three-
year decline in output from the nation’s biggest field. ONGC is
seeking to raise output from more than four-decade old fields in
India and help increase the country’s output which has dropped
every month since November 2010 compared with a year earlier,
according to oil ministry data.  Buying Stakes  Shares of Reliance, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh
Ambani , have dropped 6.6 percent this year. The stock gained 1.5
percent to 748.35 rupees as of 9:17 a.m. in Mumbai. Spokesman
Tushar Pania didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment on the
company’s plans to produce from shale rocks in India.  Reliance bought stakes in shale fields in the U.S. from
three companies including Pioneer Natural Resources Co. and
Carrizo Oil & Gas Inc in 2010.  Oil India Ltd. (OINL) , the nation’s
second-biggest state-owned explorer and  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the
largest refiner, together agreed to buy a stake in their first
shale asset overseas in October last year and  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) ,
the nation’s No. 1 gas transporter, agreed to invest in
Carrizo’s fields in September 2011.  “These companies would’ve learnt about technologies from
their experience in the U.S.,” said Neelabh Sharma, a Mumbai-
based analyst with BOB Capital Markets Ltd., a unit of state-run
 Bank of Baroda . “The companies would know what best shale
formation to drill into. If the policy allows foreign
investment, they could even bring their partners to India.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at   jrogers73@bloomberg.net  