-- Louisville Completes NCAA’s Final Four After Ware’s Broken Leg
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/michigan-routs-florida-to-reach-first-ncaa-final-four-since-1993.html
The University of Louisville is
headed to the Final Four of the national men’s college
basketball tournament for the second straight year after a win
that was fueled by a loss.  Louisville pulled away from  Duke University  for an 85-63
victory in the Midwest regional final in Indianapolis yesterday
to become the lone No. 1 seed to reach the Final Four. The
Cardinals outscored the Blue Devils 50-31 in the second half
after losing Kevin Ware, a reserve guard, to a double leg
fracture that left coach  Rick Pitino  and other players in tears.  “We won this for him,” Pitino said of Ware in a televised
interview. “We’re all choked up with emotion for him. It was an
unbelievable performance. So proud of the guys.”  Louisville joined Wichita State,  Syracuse University  and
the  University of Michigan  in the Final Four of the National
Collegiate Athletic Association tournament. Michigan routed the
University of Florida 79-59 in yesterday’s South regional final
to get back to the Final Four for the first time since 1992 and
1993, when it lost consecutive championship games with the “Fab
Five” class of Chris Webber, Jalen Rose, Juwan Howard, Ray
Jackson and Jimmy King.  Louisville (33-5), which was the top overall seed in the
68-team tournament, will face Wichita State (30-8) on April 6 in
Atlanta for a spot in the national title game, which is played
two days later at the Georgia Dome.  Michigan  (30-7) will play
Syracuse (30-9) in the other national semifinal.  Wichita State was the ninth seed in the West regional,
while Michigan was seeded fourth in the South and Syracuse was
fourth in the East. This is the fourth straight year that the
Final Four will feature one No. 1 seed or fewer.  Heavy Favorite  Louisville is now a 10-13 favorite to win its third
national title, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book.
Michigan is the second choice at 3-1 odds, followed by Syracuse
at 4-1 and Wichita State at 12-1.  Louisville closed its regional final against Duke with a
43-21 scoring run to break a 42-42 tie in the opening minutes of
the second half. The surge came after the game was delayed nine
minutes by the injury to Ware, whose right leg was broken in two
places when he landed while trying to block a shot with 6:33
left in the first half.  “All he kept saying -- and remember the bone is six inches
out of his leg -- and all he’s yelling is, ‘Win the game, win
the game,’” Pitino said. “I’ve not seen that in my life. We’re
all distraught and all he’s saying is win the game while the
bone is out of his leg. Pretty special young man.”  Russ Smith scored 23 points to lead Louisville, while
Peyton Siva had 16 points and Gorgui Dieng added 14 points and
11 rebounds.  ‘Devastating Loss’  “When Kevin went down, it was devastating for all of us,”
Siva said. “We just came together and Kevin Ware really was the
reason why we pulled this game out.”  Pitino will return to the Final Four for the seventh time
in his coaching career, tying him for fourth all-time, five
behind  John Wooden ’s record. The Cardinals, who won their last
NCAA title in 1986, lost to eventual champion  Kentucky  in last
season’s national semifinals.  Mason Plumlee had 17 points and 12 rebounds to lead Duke,
which was held to 36.5 percent shooting. Blue Devils coach  Mike Krzyzewski  lost for the second time in 13 appearances in the
final eight of the NCAA tournament, missing the chance to tie
Wooden’s record for Final Four appearances.  Michigan Rolls  Michigan raced to a 13-0 lead in Arlington,  Texas , pushed
its advantage to 24 points in the first half and never let
Florida get within 11 points the rest of the way. Nik Stauskas
had 22 points to lead the Wolverines, who were up by as many as
25 points with just over one minute left.  Michigan’s rout came two days after the Wolverines upset
South region No. 1 seed Kansas 87-85 in overtime after erasing a
14-point deficit with less than seven minutes left. Michigan
carried that momentum into today’s game, hitting seven of their
first nine shots while opening a 20-4 lead.  Florida , which trailed 41-17 with just over four minutes
left in the first half, used an 18-6 scoring run to pull within
47-36 less than three minutes into the second half. Michigan
responded with a 3-pointer from Stauskas, who hit all six of his
3-point attempts and missed only one of his eight shots.  Trey Burke added 15 points, eight rebounds and seven
assists for the Wolverines.  Michigan, which won its only national title in 1989, in
January was ranked No. 1 in the Associated Press poll for the
first time since 1992 before losing six of its next 12 games.  “We went through a lot of adversity this year,” Burke
said in a televised interview. “A lot of guys said we were
young and couldn’t get here, but we’re here now and we still
have unfinished business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  