-- High Court Seals the Case for Gay-Marriage Inevitability
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2013-03-31T15:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/high-court-seals-the-case-for-gay-marriage-inevitability.html
The substantive case against gay
marriage collapsed in the  Supreme Court  last week.  Legally, Supreme Court watchers say, advocates won’t win
the sweeping victory they once anticipated as they made
arguments last week. The court is likely to overturn a
 California  law that precludes same-sex marriage, on technical
grounds. The 17-year-old federal Defense of Marriage Act
defining marriage as between a man and woman, and thus denying
federal spousal benefits to gays and lesbians, almost certainly
will be thrown out on the grounds that such decisions should be
left to the states.  The upshot: Gay marriage will be legal in 10 states,
including  California , and the  District of Columbia . The battle
will continue to be waged by referendum and in state
legislatures in the other 40 states, with endless legal
challenges.  These struggles will be framed by the two days of arguments
before the  high court  last week. Whatever the legal outcome,
there was no contest on the merits: Opponents came across as
fighting yesterday’s battle against a reality recognized by more
and more voters.  Procreative Rationale  The central criticism of same-sex marriage revolved around
procreation; that the purpose of marriage is to produce
offspring. These critics faltered when asked about infertile
couples or senior citizens who get married. If this were a
serious basis for policy, the best enforcement mechanism would
be fertility tests before granting marriage licenses.  Justice  Samuel Alito  worried that the question is just too
new, that mobile phones and the Internet have been around
longer. Same-sex marriages have only been legal anywhere for
less than a decade, though gay and lesbian couples have been
living together, some with adopted children, for ages. The woman
who brought the case against the federal law had been with her
now-deceased female spouse since 1967.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  said proponents were showing
inconsistency with their dual claims that children of same-sex
marriages fare as well as others and that legal recognition is
necessary for the welfare of these kids.  Actually, much research and many experts concur with both
points. Last month, the  American Academy of Pediatrics , after an
extensive review, declared that allowing gay and lesbian couples
to marry is in the best interests of children. When critics
worry this will lead to more adoptions by gay couples, they
ignore that the alternative often is for these children to
suffer in orphanages or in a flawed foster-care system.  The chief justice offered a legitimate critique of
President  Barack Obama  -- the two aren’t fond of one another --
wondering why he had continued to enforce the federal statute if
he considered it unconstitutional. It was cringe-inducing,
however, when he said politicians were “falling all over each
other” to embrace same-sex marriage. Think back a generation,
and substitute blacks for gays and lesbians.  There has been a pronounced shift in public and political
opinion. Only last year, the Republican platform and
presidential candidates were adamantly opposed to same-sex
marriage.  It may be that the political potency of gay marriage-
bashing in years past -- ballot referendums in states such as
 Ohio , it is often declared, were helpful to President  George W. Bush ’s 2004 re-election -- was exaggerated.  Ballot Initiatives  “We analyzed the returns and there was no difference in
the turnout among social conservatives and evangelicals in
states that had gay marriage on the ballot and those that
didn’t,” says  Matthew Dowd , who conducted Bush’s 2004 polling.
“It’s an urban myth.”  By 2012, the issue had become a political asset for Obama,
says his campaign manager,  Jim Messina : “It’s part of why we
got a bigger youth turnout.”  The best analogy for last week’s arguments isn’t the oft-
cited Roe v. Wade abortion case or the Brown v. Board of
Education civil-rights decision; it’s Loving v.  Virginia , the
1967 court decision that ruled unconstitutional the state’s
prohibition on interracial marriage. (Obama, the son of an
African man and white American woman, was then 5 years old and
living in  Hawaii .)  Much as the court now seems likely to defer any definitive
ruling on gay marriage this year, back then, it ducked the anti-
miscegenation laws for more than a decade.  The more important similarity is the issue of harm or
injury. In the abortion controversy, both sides legitimately
claim severe harm results from an adverse ruling. No one is
legitimately hurt by interracial or gay marriage.  That’s why public opinion has changed. The more transparent
and open these relationships can be, the more the irrational
fears are allayed. The threats to the institution of marriage
are divorce and children born to single parents, not gay and
lesbian couples.  There’s one more analogy to Loving; history is on the side
of gay-marriage proponents. The conventional wisdom is that the
court will vote 5-to-4 in these cases, with Justice  Anthony Kennedy  in the role of swing vote. Don’t be surprised if
Roberts, who is 58 and expects to remain chief justice for a
long time, doesn’t fight history.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at   ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 