-- Liverpool Wins 2-1 at Aston Villa in England’s Premier League
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-03-31T23:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/liverpool-wins-2-1-at-aston-villa-in-england-s-premier-league.html
Liverpool came back to win 2-1 at
 Aston Villa  yesterday to deepen its opponent’s relegation
concerns in English soccer’s Premier League.  Christian Benteke gave the home team the lead in the 31st
minute at  Villa Park . Liverpool rallied with goals by  Jordan Henderson , two minutes into the second half, and a 60th-minute
penalty kick by  Steven Gerrard  after  Luis Suarez  was fouled.  The result keeps Villa in the bottom-three relegation
positions. It’s 18th in the 20-team league on 30 points, ahead
of Queens Park Rangers and Reading, both on 23. Liverpool has 48
points and stays seventh as it seeks qualification for European
soccer next season.  “In the first half, we played reasonably well, but got
punished with a long ball and it ended up a good finish from
Benteke,” Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  said. “Second half
I thought the players were outstanding with the mentality and
the quality in their game.”  Villa, seeking a third straight win yesterday, needed a
victory to avoid losing ground on fellow strugglers Wigan and
Southampton, who won the day before.  Villa’s  Gabriel Agbonlahor  should have opened the scoring
after 16 minutes, only to see his short-range effort from Matt
Lowton’s cross blocked by goalkeeper Pepe Reina.  In the 31st minute Benteke opened the scoring with a right-
foot strike from the edge of the penalty area after Agbonlahor
laid the ball off. It was the 14th league goal of the season for
Villa’s top scorer.  Bannan Mistake  A mistake by Barry Bannan gave Suarez the chance to level
the scores but Brad Guzan’s save foiled the Uruguayan. Guzan
then saved a long-range shot from Gerrard.  Two minutes into the second half, Henderson leveled the
scores, dinking the ball past Guzan from a defense-splitting
pass by Philippe Coutinho. Coutinho then looked certain to make
in 2-1, shooting wide with only the goalkeeper to beat, and  Glen Johnson ’s shot hit a post as the Reds turned up the pressure.  Liverpool took the lead with a penalty kick by Gerrard
after Nathan Baker brought down Suarez in a clumsy challenge.
Minutes later Gerrard dived to head off his own line and deny
Benteke from a corner. Benteke had the ball in Liverpool’s net
in injury time but the effort was disallowed for offside.  “For 45 minutes we were excellent, we competed brilliantly,
we looked a threat every time we went forward against a really
good side,” Villa manager  Paul Lambert  said. “The goal two
minutes after the restart was disappointing to lose. But we are
playing well enough to win games.”  United Leads  Just above the relegation zone, Wigan has 30 points with a
better goal difference than Villa, which has played one more
game. Sunderland has 31 points.  Manchester United , with 77 points, keeps a 15-point lead at
the top after a 1-0 win two days ago at Sunderland, which later
fired manager  Martin O’Neill  and replaced him with Paolo di Canio on a  2 1/2-year contract .  Defending champion  Manchester City  is on 62 points after a
4-0 win over Newcastle. Tottenham moved up to third after a 2-1
victory at Swansea, while Chelsea went down 2-1 at Southampton.
Arsenal defeated Reading 4-1, Stoke lost 1-0 at Everton, West
Ham beat West Brom 3-1 and Norwich lost 1-0 at Wigan.  Tottenham has 57 points, followed by Chelsea (55), Arsenal
(53), Everton (51) and Liverpool.  Fulham hosts QPR tonight in the league. Earlier, Chelsea
plays Manchester United in an F.A. Cup quarterfinal replay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  