-- Kenya Court Upholds Kenyatta Ballot Win Amid ‘Peaceful’ Protest
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-03-31T09:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/kenya-court-upholds-kenyatta-ballot-win-amid-peaceful-protest.html
Kenya’s Supreme Court upheld Uhuru Kenyatta’s presidential victory, dismissing a petition from
defeated candidate Raila Odinga, who called on his supporters to
respect the verdict.  The court reached a “unanimous decision,” Chief Justice
Willy Mutunga said yesterday, reading a ruling on behalf of the
six-judge bench in the capital, Nairobi. Kenyatta and his
deputy, William Ruto, “were validly elected,” he said.  The decision clears the way for the inauguration of
Kenyatta, who is facing a separate legal challenge at the
International Criminal Court on charges of crimes against
humanity. Kenyatta, Ruto, and a Kenyan radio presenter are
accused by the ICC of orchestrating violence after the last
presidential election five years ago. They all maintain they are
innocent and will fight the charges.  Kenyatta made an offer of reconciliation to Odinga and
other competitors to join him “so that we can work together in
the interest of the well-being of our people.”  Police used tear gas to disperse groups of youth burning
tires and blocking roads in the western port city of Kisumu
after the verdict was read. Two people were shot  dead  by police
and others suffered bullet injuries, the Nairobi-based Standard
newspaper reported today on its website. Widespread fighting
engulfed the city after the 2007 election. Rioters  looted  and
burned buildings in a Nairobi slum, the Sunday Nation based in
the city said.  “It is widely peaceful and there will not be widespread
trouble even though a lot of people thought there was going to
be bloodshed,” Muthui Kariuki, a government spokesman, said by
phone today. “Kenyans have decided to put their destiny in
their hands and not fight.”  ‘Fair’ Vote  Kenyatta, 51, won the March 4 election with 50.07 percent
of votes cast, surpassing by about 8,000 ballots the absolute
majority required to avoid a runoff, while Odinga got 43.3
percent. More than 12 million Kenyans voted, a record 86 percent
turnout of registered voters, according to the country’s
electoral agency.  The vote “was conducted in a free, fair, transparent and
credible manner,” Mutunga said.  “I want to assure all Kenyans, including those who did not
vote for the Jubilee Coalition, and indeed even those who
challenged the validity of my election, that my government will
work with, and serve all Kenyans without any discrimination
whatsoever,” Kenyatta said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “I wish the president-elect, Uhuru Kenyatta, and his team,
well,” Odinga said after the ruling. “Casting doubt on the
judgment of the court could lead to higher political and
economic uncertainty, and make it more difficult for our country
to move forward.”  Institutional Challenges  Odinga, 68, had said the vote should be nullified and new
elections held because of the failure of electronic systems
including finger-print identification readers and the mobile
phone-based transmission of provisional results. Turnout
surpassed the number of registered voters at some polling
stations and some return forms were doctored, he said.  The ruling means discrepancies pointed out by Odinga
“don’t amount to enough to allow Odinga’s petition to
succeed,” Mwalimu Mati, head of the independent watchdog Mars
Group, said in a phone interview from Nairobi after the verdict.
“They indicated institutional challenges which can be remedied
and not corruption or fraud.”  ‘Largely Peaceful’  European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso said the
electoral process in Kenya is “formerly concluded,” and
congratulated the country on the “largely peaceful” conduct of
the elections. “I commend those who have accepted the outcome
even where they have not succeeded and pursued any contests
through the due legal processes,” he said in a statement issued
today by the commission.  The court had ordered forms to be scrutinized from all
polling stations. The Registrar of the Supreme Court said in a
report yesterday that it examined documents from 18,000 out of
33,400 sites and found some discrepancies including some sites
with missing forms.  British Prime Minister David Cameron congratulated Kenyatta
on his victory and urged Kenyans to accept the decision of the
court, according to an e-mailed statement from the U.K. High
Commission in Nairobi.  The U.S. government also congratulated Kenyatta and
commended Odinga for accepting the verdict, urging all of
Kenya’s citizens to do the same.  “Now is the time for Kenyans to come together to fully
implement the political, institutional and accountability
reforms envisioned in the Kenyan constitution,” a statement
from the U.S. Office of the Press Secretary said.  Ethnic Clashes  Allegations of vote-rigging by Odinga after he lost his
campaign for the presidency in December 2007 led to two months
of ethnic clashes that killed more than 1,100 people and cut
economic growth to 1.5 percent in 2008 from 7 percent the year
before. Kenya is East Africa’s largest economy and the regional
hub for companies including Google Inc. and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   The Supreme Court’s decision on a presidential election
petition is final and no appeal is possible, according to the
constitution. Kenyatta is set to be sworn in by April 9.  Kenyatta’s trial at The Hague-based court is scheduled to
begin in July. He is fighting to have the ICC prosecutor’s
office drop the charges, as it did earlier this month for his
co-accused Francis Muthaura, the former head of Kenya’s civil
service, after a key witness recanted his testimony.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  