-- Stimulating the Demand for Toilets
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-31T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/toilet-shortfall-requires-stimulating-demand-not-supply.html
India ’s recently ended Kumbh Mela
festival, which attracted 10 million Hindus to a short stretch
of the Ganges River over 55 days, was a  reminder of the perils 
of poor sanitation. With pilgrims using leaky latrines and
defecating on open ground, fecal sludge flowed toward the water
they bathed in and sipped, risking diarrheal disease.  For many of those visitors, the situation at home isn’t
much better. Some 37 percent of the world’s population, 2.5
billion people, don’t have so much as a composting toilet or a
covered pit latrine. Almost half this group practices open
defecation.  In the early 1990s, world governments committed themselves
to halving the proportion of people without access to safe
drinking water and basic sanitation by 2015. The water goal was
 reached  last year, yet the toilet gap has narrowed by just 27
percent. At this point, there’s no chance of meeting the
deadline.  This isn’t merely a matter of dignity. Inadequate
sanitation leads to fecal contamination of food, water and
living spaces, and this in turn causes diarrheal diseases, the
second largest killer in the developing world, claiming 2
million lives a year.  The disappointing progress on sanitation is partly because
 only about a third  as much money is spent on sanitation as is
devoted to clean water. Although 884 million people still lack
decent water, the needs in sanitation are now larger, so
allocating funds more evenly makes sense.  Unused Toilets  Another reason sanitation has gotten less traction is that
toilets aren’t as universally appreciated as clean water is.
Thousands of toilets installed across the developing world at
government or donor expense gather cobwebs.  These  failures  offer a lesson in how to expand good
sanitation: Rather than build toilets, governments and donors
must build demand for them.  In India, Indonesia and  Zimbabwe , among other places, pilot
projects run by government authorities and nongovernmental
organizations have begun to  demonstrate the value  of this
approach. Understanding that people don’t automatically want
toilets, they begin with a campaign lauding them. It has proved
essential that a trusted member of the community lead such
efforts. In one approach, people are shown how their current
habits allow feces to get into fluids and fields, onto fingers,
flies, floors and food, and then into mouths.  It takes more than a health lesson to sell people on
toilets, however. In  surveys  of targeted communities, people say
they care more about other qualities, such as privacy and the
reduction of flies. This shouldn’t be entirely surprising. Think
of how soap makers in wealthy countries often extoll their
products’ smell rather than germ-killing potential.  Certain communities respond to more targeted messages. In
Tanzania, where heads of household said they wanted to be seen
as modern but thought toilets were too expensive,  posters 
feature a happy family showing off its latrine with the caption,
“A good toilet is possible! We’ve taken development all the way
to the toilet!”  Some programs offer toilet-installation subsidies. In
India, a number of communities have been given grants after they
have become 100 percent open-defecation free. Many campaigns
have achieved that outcome without offering households financial
assistance. Once demand was sufficient, the free market ensured
households got affordable toilets.  At the same time, the private sector needs support to
ensure local masons are trained to build toilets. In a  program 
in  Indonesia ’s East Java province, some households preferred no
latrine to a smelly one. So it proved important that craftsmen
learned to produce pleasant, water-sealed models that even
poorer households could afford. Authorities will need to offer
builders access to credit and business skills coaching so they
can meet rising demand.  These pilot efforts can guide the many other communities
that still suffer from a lack of toilets. The World Bank
estimates that poor sanitation costs Tanzania the equivalent of
1 percent of its gross domestic product annually. For India, the
figure is 6 percent. If a greater share of global aid is
dedicated to sanitation, the investments are certain to pay off.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 