-- Payrolls Probably Rose, Factories Expanded: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-03-31T04:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/payrolls-probably-rose-factories-expanded-u-s-economy-preview.html
Payrolls probably grew in March and
factories kept assembly lines moving, signaling the U.S.
expansion chugged ahead even as federal spending cuts set in,
economists said before reports this week.  Employers hired a net 200,000 workers this month after
taking on 236,000 in February, according to the median forecast
of 58 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before April 5 figures
from the Labor Department. Another report may show manufacturing
 expanded  at close to the fastest pace in almost two years.  The pickup in hiring, combined with a rebound in housing
and record stock prices, is helping Americans weather an
increase in the  payroll tax , triggering gains in spending that
are in turn promoting more employment. Factories are boosting
production in response to improving sales and business
investment, strengthening an economy facing automatic  federal
budget  cuts.  “The U.S. economy is rebounding,” Bruce Kasman, chief
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York , said in a March
28 report. “The prospects for continued strong employment gains
look good, even as the economy absorbs the fiscal drag.”  The  jobless rate  held at 7.7 percent this month, matching
February’s reading as the lowest since December 2008, according
the Bloomberg survey median.  A March payroll increase in line with the median forecast
would make average job growth over the past six months the
fastest in almost a year.  Fed’s View  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank wants to
see further labor market progress before curbing record monetary
easing. The  Federal Open Market Committee  decided on March 20 to
keep buying bonds at a monthly pace of $85 billion and to leave
the bank’s key interest rate near zero so long as unemployment
remained above 6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation was
less than 2.5 percent.  Fed officials, nonetheless, said they do see better signs.  “Obviously, there has been improvement,” Bernanke said at
a news conference after the FOMC met. “One thing we would need
is to make sure that this is not a temporary improvement.”  Helping keep the economy and employment growing, Americans
have been able to cope with higher taxes and gasoline  prices  so
far this year.  Consumer spending  climbed in February by the most
in five months and confidence unexpectedly improved in March,
reports showed last week.  Purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the
economy, rose 0.7 percent after a 0.4 percent advance the prior
month that was bigger than previously estimated, according to
Commerce Department data. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan’s final March sentiment index rose to 78.6, exceeding
all estimates in a Bloomberg survey, from 77.6 in February.  Factory Gains  Growing demand from households will give manufacturers
reason to boost output. The Institute for Supply Management
factory  index , due tomorrow, will come in at 54, little changed
from February’s 54.2, which was the highest since June 2011,
according to economists’ estimates. Readings greater than 50
signal expansion.  General Motors Co. (GM)  is among producers planning to take on
more staff. The Detroit-based automaker said on March 6 it will
hire 1,000 workers for an information technology operations
center in the Phoenix area. The increase is part of GM’s goal of
adding about 7,500 information technology employees.  Economists estimate this week’s employment report will show
manufacturing payrolls climbed by 10,000 in March.  Service Industries  Services, the other 90 percent of the economy, are
expanding as well. Figures out April 3 will show the ISM’s non-
manufacturing index also grew in March. The  gauge  eased to 55.8
in March from 56 the prior month, a one-year high, according to
the median estimate.  Stronger demand from customers overseas could help keep the
 U.S. economy  humming. The trade deficit was probably  little
changed  at $44.7 billion in February compared with $44.4 billion
the prior month, Commerce Department figures are projected to
show April 5.  The threat to growth comes from $85 billion in automatic
government budget cuts, known as sequestration, that kicked in
March 1 because Congress couldn’t compromise on a debt-reduction
strategy. The plan trims 5 percent from domestic agencies and 8
percent for the Defense Department this fiscal year.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  