-- Russian Fourth-Quarter Growth Probably Fell to 3-Year Low
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-03-31T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/russian-fourth-quarter-growth-probably-fell-to-3-year-low.html
Russia’s economy  probably grew at
the weakest pace in the final three months of last year since a
recession in 2009 as  Europe ’s debt crisis prompted companies to
cut investment and consumer spending stumbled.  Gross domestic product advanced 2 percent from a year
earlier, slowing from 2.9 percent in July-September and 4.9
percent at the start of 2012, according to the median estimate
of 17 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . The forecasts ranged
from 1 percent to 2.4 percent. The statistics office will
probably release the figures tomorrow or April 3.  Consumer demand is waning just as a recession in the
European Union, which accounts for about half of Russian trade,
chokes corporate investment and curbs demand for commodities,
hurting sales at companies from OAO  Novolipetsk Steel (NLMK)  to
carmaker OAO AvtoVAZ. The slowdown, which has continued into
this year, sparked an argument between policy makers over
interest-rate cuts to spur growth with inflation above target.  “Investments and consumption were continuing to slow at
the end of the year,” Vladimir Kolychev, head of research at
 Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s  OAO Rosbank (ROSB)  unit in Moscow, said by phone
March 29.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  advanced 1.1 percent in the final quarter
of last year, lagging behind a 5.2 percent gain in the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index. The 50-stock Russian index tumbled 2.5
percent in the last three months, its worst quarter since April-
June 2012.  Steel, Cars  Steelmakers including Novolipetsk Steel and  OAO Severstal (SVST) 
reported net losses in the fourth quarter. Billionaire Alexey Mordashov, Severstal’s chief executive, cited a weakening global
economy as a drag on demand.  Sales of cars and light commercial vehicles rose  2 percent 
in February, slowing from last year’s high of 25 percent,
according to the Association of European Businesses in  Russia .  There’s “virtually no chance” the economy will grow
faster than the government’s official 3.6 percent forecast for
this year and risks persist that it will grow more slowly,
Deputy Finance Minister Alexei Moiseev said at a conference
organized by the Vedomosti newspaper March 29.  Investment slowed after the state spent more evenly
throughout the year and the economic outlook deteriorated both
globally and in Russia, according to Rosbank’s Kolychev. Slower
growth in credit and wages took a toll on consumer demand, while
a surge in inflation toward the end of the year hurt spending,
he said.  Growth Forecast  The Economy Ministry may revise the growth forecast, Deputy
Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said at the same conference,
declining to elaborate. Russia would grow less than 2 percent in
2013 if output continued to expand at the current pace, he said.  “The weakness will most likely continue into the start of
this year,” said Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist for
Russia at  Bank of America   Merrill Lynch in  Moscow. “There
continues to be a stagnation in industrial production,
investment and freight shipments. Consumption is also slowing.”  Klepach, the government’s top economic forecaster, has
clashed with officials from the central bank, urging lower
interest rates to spur borrowing and bolster growth.  Sergey Shvetsov, a central bank deputy chairman, told
Klepach March 29 that output was at potential and any reduction
in borrowing costs would boost imports and inflation, rather
than domestic production.  Economic ‘Contribution’  “The central bank is already making its contribution to
economic growth,” Shvetsov said. “And it’s clear that it’s the
government that’s responsible for economic growth and we are
helping the government, within our purview.”  The government and lawmakers are discussing the possibility
of expanding the central bank’s mandate to include some
responsibility for economic growth, President Vladimir Putin’s
spokesman said last week.  The discussions follow Putin’s March 12 nomination of his
aide  Elvira Nabiullina , a former economy minister, to replace
outgoing chairman Sergey Ignatiev, with lawmakers scheduled to
resume hearings on the nomination April 3.  Her appointment has triggered speculation that monetary
policy will be loosened after officials including Klepach sought
lower borrowing costs to revive growth in what First Deputy
Premier Igor Shuvalov called a “huge argument” between the
government and policy makers.  Rate Decision  Bank Rossii will leave rates unchanged for a seventh month
when it meets tomorrow, according to a Bloomberg survey. The
central bank wants to keep inflation at 5 percent to 6 percent
this year, a range it was forced to abandon last year.  The inflation rate surged to an 18-month peak of 7.3
percent in February and remained at that level in early March,
the central bank said last month. Ignatiev, whose final term
ends in June, has said he’d consider cutting rates once
inflation falls.  Growing at the 5 percent medium-term target set by Prime
Minister Dmitry Medvedev isn’t in the cards for this year, and
probably won’t happen in the coming years without a significant
improvement in the external environment, Klepach said March 29.  Investment in fixed capital fell 0.4 percent in December
from a year earlier after expanding by more than 16 percent in
the first quarter of 2012.  “The deceleration in the fourth quarter is related to
slowing growth in investment and consumption,” Maria Pomelnikova, an analyst at ZAO Raiffeisenbank in Moscow, said
March 28. “The negative trend is continuing.The trend in
investment is just catching up with industrial production, which
has been stagnating for more than half a year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  