-- Cohen Eludes U.S. as Latest Case Is Short on Evidence
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-04-01T19:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/sac-siege-by-u-s-seen-slowing-in-steinberg-s-indictment.html
Looks can be deceiving when it comes
to assessing the U.S. criminal investigation of SAC Capital
Advisors LP founder Steven A. Cohen.  Federal prosecutors have enjoyed a steady drumbeat of
indictments over the past few years, punctuated by headline-
grabbing 6 a.m. knocks at the door as Federal Bureau of
Investigation agents arrest the latest member of the inner
circle of the $15 billion hedge fund.  The insider trading indictment last week of SAC fund
manager Michael Steinberg, a 16-year veteran of the firm,
involved the most important member of Cohen’s firm charged so
far. The splash of his Good Friday arrest followed the charges
last year of SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma, bringing to
nine the number of current or former SAC traders or analysts
linked to illegal trades.  That’s a sizable universe of people who could potentially
incriminate Cohen. Yet the closest prosecutors have gotten so
far to implicating Cohen himself occurred in Martoma’s case,
which involved an alleged 20-minute conversation Martoma had
with Cohen about health stocks. The firm netted $276 million on
those stocks, trading on illegal tips Martoma got, according to
prosecutors. But no evidence was put forth that Cohen, who
denies any wrongdoing, knew the tips were improperly obtained.  In Steinberg’s case, the evidence about illegal trades in
technology stocks was even more indirect. The judge in charge of
that case said Steinberg’s indictment, echoing some of the
charges against other SAC employees, didn’t show much new
evidence of malfeasance at the hedge fund.  Civil Case?  Following a $616 million U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission settlement with SAC last month over alleged illegal
trades, it may well be that the government won’t seek to go much
higher up SAC’s ladder and might have to settle for a civil case
against Cohen for not properly supervising his subordinates.  “These seem to be trades that didn’t have Cohen’s direct
involvement,”  Bradley Simon , a former federal prosecutor now in
private practice in New York.  It appears increasingly unlikely that Cohen would be
charged, he said. Additionally, the statute of limitations for
securities fraud is five years, which means the U.S. is running
out of time to file new charges based on some of the trades at
issue. The U.S. needs to act on the health trade by mid-July.  Picasso, Hamptons  Cohen may be coming to the same conclusion about the
unlikelihood of criminal charges based on his recent purchases
of property in the Hamptons for $60 million and a Pablo Picasso
painting for $155 million, Simon said.  Those purchases combined with his willingness to lay down
almost two-thirds of a billion dollars to settle with the SEC,
Simon said, may show Cohen sees the criminal threat as being
behind him. Cohen wouldn’t have agreed to the SEC deal if he
thought he faces arrest in an insider case, Simon said.  “Could it be that he’s been told that he won’t get
charged?” the lawyer asked. “He must feel pretty confident.”  Still, the SEC has said that its investigation is
continuing, and the Justice Department has made no announcement
that its five-years of scrutinizing hedge funds led by SAC was
winding down.  Anthony Sabino , a professor of law at the Tobin School of
Business at St. John’s University in New York, said the
investigation by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara and the
New York FBI will not let up.  ‘Highest Echelon’  “They’re tightening the noose around the highest echelon
at SAC,” Sabino said. “This is pretty clearly part of a pre-
conceived strategy” of winning convictions against lesser
executives and building cases against “the higher-ups.”  “They’re systematically decimating key personnel at SAC,”
said Sabino. “If they’ve arrested a fund manager, how long
until they bring charges at the highest echelon?”  Cohen, 56, hasn’t been charged or sued by the government.
Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-based
SAC, and  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to
comment.  Steinberg, who turns 41 this week, was taken into custody
March 29 at his Manhattan home when FBI agents appeared at his
door at 6 a.m. The most senior SAC official to be charged, he
was indicted by a federal grand jury March 28 on five counts of
conspiracy and securities fraud. Part of SAC’s Sigma Capital
Management unit, he has been with SAC since 1997.  Steinberg traded on insider tips obtained from convicted
SAC technology analyst Jon Horvath, according to his indictment.  Twenty Years  One of 15 SAC portfolio managers handling technology, media
and telecommunications stocks before he was placed on leave last
year, a person familiar with the matter said, Steinberg faces as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in  Manhattan , who
presides over many of the SAC-related cases, ruled in December
that Steinberg was an uncharged co-conspirator in a $72 million
insider trading conspiracy involving Level Global Investors LP
co-founder Anthony Chiasson, ex-Diamondback Capital Management
LLC portfolio manager Todd Newman.  “Steinberg was another Wall Street insider who fed off a
corrupt grapevine of proprietary and confidential information,”
Bharara said last week.  Steinberg pleaded not guilty during a half-hour court
hearing March 29. Dressed in a dark sweater, slacks and
handcuffs, Steinberg looked straight ahead during the 30-minute
hearing, where his bail was set at $3 million and his travel was
limited to New York,  Connecticut ,  Florida  and  California . He was
to be released on $100,000 bond.  Handcuffed Steinberg  During the court appearance, Steinberg said “yes” three
times when asked if he understood his rights and “not guilty,
your honor” when asked for his plea.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps said the case is based
“largely” on cooperator testimony. While Steinberg was caught
“on a handful” of wiretaps, prosecutors don’t expect to
introduce them at trial, Apps said.  This case “involves a lot of paper, a lot of information
over a long period of time,” Sullivan said. It focuses on
trades from 2008 and 2009 and may not generate many new details
about SAC trading, he said.  “Much of the information” has already “been publicly
available,” the judge said. The next hearing was set for May 3.  ‘Judge Shopping’  In court last week, defense lawyer Barry Berke suggested
prosecutors may be involved in “judge shopping” by bringing
the case as part of earlier charges against others. By using
such a superseding indictment, prosecutors ensured the case was
assigned to Sullivan instead of another judge, Berke said.  Sullivan has handed down severe sentences in financial
crime cases, sending ex-fund manager James Nicholson to prison
for 40 years, former Galleon Group LLC trader Zvi Goffer for ten
years and technology investor Alberto Vilar for nine years.  He also issued a ruling in an earlier insider case that
defense lawyers claimed lessens the government’s burden of
proof. Two other judges in the same court have ruled
differently.  Sullivan said at the hearing March 29 that the “odds”
were that he would retain the Steinberg case.  “Mr. Steinberg -- don’t believe Mr. Berke,” the judge
said in court. “I’m not as bad as he says.”  Sabino’s assessment that prosecutors are still actively
pursuing SAC received a boost last month when an SEC complaint
helped reveal that another senior SAC employee is tied to the
investigation.  Gabriel Plotkin  According to internal e-mails and two people familiar with
the matter, Steinberg and SAC fund manager Gabriel Plotkin both
were recipients of inside information passed to them by Horvath,
the convicted SAC analyst. Plotkin hasn’t been accused of
wrongdoing.  Steinberg is charged with being part of a conspiracy that
began in late 2007 and continued until 2009. The U.S. said he
received and traded on illegal tips on  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Nvidia
Corp.  The SEC, which filed a parallel lawsuit against Steinberg
last week, has said Horvath funneled nonpublic information on
technology stocks to two unidentified portfolio managers at
Cohen’s hedge fund. Both men then traded on the information,
reaping more than $6 million for SAC Capital units.  The men were Steinberg and Plotkin, according to the SAC e-
mails. The e-mails were also cited in Steinberg’s indictment.  In November, the U.S. indicted Martoma, a former fund
manager for SAC’s CR Intrinsic Investors unit, in what
prosecutors called the biggest insider-trading scheme in
history.  Drug Stocks  Bharara said Martoma helped SAC make $276 million on
illegal tips about an Alzheimer’s drug by trading in shares of
Elan Corp. and Wyeth LLC. He has pleaded not guilty to the
charges and is awaiting trial.  The indictment of Steinberg, meanwhile, brings prosecutors
a step closer to Cohen. He has had the longest tenure at SAC of
those the U.S. has tied to its insider-trading probe.  Berke, Steinberg’s lawyer, rejected the charges and said
his client traded “based on detailed analysis as well as
information that he understood had been properly obtained.”  George Venizelos, head of the FBI’s New York office, took a
different tack, alleging in a statement March 29 that
Steinberg’s “research was nothing more than well-timed tips
from an extensive network of well-sourced analysts.”  SAC spokesman Gasthalter said last week Steinberg “has
conducted himself professionally and ethically during his long
tenure at the firm.”  SEC Settlement  Simon, the former federal prosecutor, said that the SEC’s
record $616 million settlement with SAC, and the hedge fund’s
willingness to pay it, may indicate that Cohen sees the probe as
coming to an end.  The settlement, however, requires judicial approval, and
that may not come as easily as the parties would like.  At a hearing about the largest piece of the settlement,
$602 million, U.S. District Judge Victor Marrero in Manhattan
last week raised questions over whether the hedge fund should be
allowed to avoid admitting it did anything wrong.  His concerns echoed another Manhattan federal judge, U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff, who has repeatedly expressed
reluctance to rubber stamp SEC deals where the offending
financial institution is allowed to avoid admitting wrongdoing.  The SEC accord would resolve claims that SAC Capital and CR
Intrinsic profited from alleged illegal tips received by
Martoma.  Technology Stocks  On March 28, U.S. District Judge Harold Baer in Manhattan
approved the smaller, $14 million agreement, made with SAC’s
Sigma unit. In the settlement, which stemmed from the Horvath
case, Sigma didn’t admit or deny the allegations as part of the
settlement.  As part of the overall March 15 SEC settlement proposal,
the regulator expanded on what the U.S. had previously said
about insider trading at SAC Capital.  Horvath, who pleaded guilty in September, admitted he
provided illegal tips to his portfolio manager, who then traded
on them. His co-conspirators obtained material nonpublic
information on Dell in August 2008 and about  Nvidia (NVDA)  in May 2009
from insiders at the two technology companies, he said.  While Horvath never named Steinberg in court, prosecutors
alleged during Chiasson and Newman’s trial that Steinberg was
the recipient of Horvath’s tips. The tips earned Horvath’s hedge
fund manager about $1.4 million, prosecutors said. The SEC said
in the March 15 complaint that the analyst’s tips on technology
stocks reaped the fund more than $6 million.  Horvath, who worked at Sigma from 2006 to 2011, is
cooperating with the insider-trading investigation by Bharara’s
office and the FBI in New York. Steve Peikin, his lawyer,
declined to comment.  During Plea  Horvath told the judge during his plea that he “agreed to
obtain and share information about public companies.”  Jesse Tortora, a former analyst who worked for
Diamondback’s Newman, provided SAC’s Horvath with the tips on
Dell, the Round Rock, Texas-based computer maker, and Danny Kuo,
a former analyst at Whittier Trust Co., obtained information on
Santa Clara, California-based graphics processor maker Nvidia
from Hyung Lim, then an Nvidia employee, according to the
government filings last week.  “In each instance I provided the information to the
portfolio manager I worked for and we executed trades in the
stocks based on that information,” Horvath told Sullivan, who
presides over his case as well.  During Chiasson and Newman’s trial, prosecutors provided
evidence including SAC e-mails that they said showed Steinberg’s
state of mind about the information he received from Horvath.  Dell Earnings  Two days before Dell was set to report second-quarter 2008
earnings, Horvath e-mailed Steinberg and Plotkin to warn that
the computer maker would miss earnings estimates.  “I have a 2nd hand read from someone at the company,”
Horvath said in the Aug. 26 e-mail, which provided details on
gross margins, expenditures and revenue. “Please keep to
yourself as obviously not well known.”  Steinberg replied, “Yes normally we would never divulge
data like this, so please be discreet. Thanks.”  The messages exchanged among Horvath, Steinberg and Plotkin
show Steinberg consulted with Cohen about the August 2008 Dell
trade.  “Guys, I was talking to Steve about Dell earlier today and
he asked me to get the two of you to compare notes before the
print, as we are on opposite sides of this one,” Steinberg
wrote to Horvath and Plotkin.  Shorted Securities  Prosecutors said Steinberg shorted Dell securities based on
Horvath’s information, earning the hedge fund about $1 million.
Plotkin is one of 10 portfolio managers at Sigma focusing on
consumer stocks. He joined SAC in 2006 and is among the firm’s
top portfolio managers, overseeing more than $1 billion,
according to a person with knowledge of the firm.  The e-mails were made public as part of the month long
trial of Chiasson and Newman, who were convicted in December by
a federal jury in Manhattan. They face as long as 20 years in
prison when they are sentenced by Sullivan later this year.  Sullivan concluded in December that e-mail and instant
messages he reviewed showed that Steinberg could have known
information he used for trades came from insiders.  “The e-mails that were relayed to Steinberg do indicate to
me that he understands the source of the information that he’s
getting and he’s trading on it,” Sullivan wrote. “All of that
indicates this is inside information from the company that’s not
available anywhere else.”  Eight Analysts  Horvath was one of eight analysts and portfolio managers
charged in January 2012 with being part of what Bharara
described as “a tight-knit circle of greed” whose members
trafficked in confidential information from 2007 to 2009.  Six of those charged in the case have pleaded guilty and
agreed to cooperate with the U.S. Horvath pleaded guilty just
weeks before he was set to go on trial with Chiasson and Newman.  Sullivan ruled during Chiasson and Newman’s trial that
David Ganek, a Level Global co-founder, was also an uncharged
co-conspirator in the case. Both Chiasson and Ganek worked at
SAC Capital before starting Level Global.  Ganek hasn’t been charged with any crime. Ganek’s attorney,
John Carroll, said in December when asked about Sullivan’s
ruling that “both the U.S. attorney and the SEC have been
investigating this case for two years and neither has found
reason to charge my client.”  Pleaded Guilty  Two others who were charged with being part of the scheme
pleaded guilty and testified at the trial as prosecution
witnesses.  Tortora and Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, who once worked as
an analyst for Chiasson, described for the jury how they swapped
nonpublic information obtained from insiders at technology
companies. They said they then passed on that information to
their portfolio managers who traded on the illegal tips. Kuo,
formerly of Whittier, also pleaded guilty and is cooperating
with the U.S.  At a December hearing outside the jury’s presence during
Chiasson and Newman’s trial, Sullivan read aloud an e-mail from
Horvath to Steinberg that mentions “JT,” which prosecutors
said was a reference to Jesse Tortora.  “P.S. Keep the Dell stuff, especially on the down low,”
Horvath said in the e-mail, “because JT asked me specifically
to be extra sensitive with this information.”  Prosecutors told the judge that Steinberg took a short
position in Dell stock, betting that it would drop, “in a
matter of minutes” after receiving Horvath’s message.  “Why would you need to keep this on the ‘down low’ if this
stuff is from investor relations?” Sullivan said, adding:
“That doesn’t look good.”  The case is U.S. v. Steinberg, 12-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 