-- Softbank-Backed Startup SmarTots Builds Facebook for Kids
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-31T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/softbank-backed-startup-smartots-builds-facebook-for-kids.html
A former  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  engineer is
building a private social network in  China  where children share
art projects online with parents or grandparents. Japan’s phone
and Internet giant  Softbank Corp. (9984)  is betting he’ll succeed.  SmarTots, Jesper Lodahl’s Beijing-based startup, began
offering mobile education applications for kids from two to
seven through  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s China iTunes store in June. Designed
as a game center for app developers, this month it’s adding
functions to allow parents to “like” or comment on projects in
a layout similar to  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s site, Lodahl said.  Softbank, which provided funding, and Lodahl expect growth
in smartphones and tablets to drive demand for educational
services. Parents’ desire to set children apart from peers is
likely to drive strong demand for any service in China that can
offer an edge, said  Duncan Clark , Beijing-based chairman of BDA
China, which advises technology companies.  “People will pay a lot for their kid’s educations,” said
Clark, who doesn’t work with SmarTots. “There is a lot of
spending power around educational betterment.”  China smartphone shipments will more than double to 460
million units by 2017, researcher IDC forecast last month. The
nation’s public expenditure on education reached 4 percent of
its gross domestic product in 2012, according to data released
at the National People’s Congress in March.  Government spending 
on education has risen at an average annual rate of 22 percent
in the past five years.  ’Share to Mommy’  Started with $1 million in seed money in 2011, SmarTots in
December won financing from SoftBank’s Pan-Asia Fund, managed by
SoftBank Ventures  Korea , a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest
wireless carrier. The investment was about 2.15 billion won
($1.9 million), according to Mariko Osada, a spokeswoman for
Tokyo-based Softbank.  Other SmarTots investors include Xu Xiaoping, co-founder of
New Oriental Education and Technology Group; Angelvest;
SOSVentures and ChinaRock Capital Management, Lodahl said.  SmarTots gives kids a way to “share to Mommy” the iPad
creations that can be valuable memories, said Anna Lo, a partner
who helps manage the $85 million Softbank Ventures Korea fund
that backed SmarTots.  “Children are engaged with the devices and the content,
but parents have no idea what they are doing,” Lo said in March
26 phone interview. “In old traditional forms, there were photo
books and scrap books. In today’s digital age that is rapidly
being replaced with mobile content stored on various digital
devices.”  ’Rok Out Concert’  SmarTots offers 33 education programs for children and has
recorded 1.4 million downloads of its software to date, Lodahl
said at his office in Beijing. The company targets 6 million
downloads by the end of this year, he said.  Lodahl , a co-founder of SmarTots and chief executive
officer, spent more than seven years at Nokia, where he helped
develop four phones and create patents used on more than 1
billion handsets globally, he said.  SmarTots’ chief product officer and other co-founder is
Victor Wong, with more than 15 years experience in web and
educational software development. He was the founder of
Speak2Me, an English-language learning social network in China
that was acquired in 2007 by  Lingo Media Corp. (LM)   SmarTots currently offers modified Chinese language
versions of apps like “RokLienz: Rok Out Concert” by
Creativity Inc. and the “iLuv Drawing” series of apps by
MyVijan LLC Education.  Disney Advertising  “We provide an entry strategy for the China market for
developers that haven’t localized their product for China and
don’t have any marketing channels here,” Lodahl said.  Most of the apps are free and the company makes money
through advertising to parents on the app. One early advertiser
has been  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , he said.  By June, the company plans to have an Android version of
its software, which is currently limited to Apple devices, to
help expand its user base in China before targeting  South Korea 
and Japan, Lodahl said.  “We would like to help our invested companies gain access
to these various regional markets,” Softbank’s Lo said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  