-- Stocks Fall on Manufacturing Data as Yen Climbs
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-04-01T20:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/yen-falls-on-boj-easing-bets-u-s-stock-futures-little-changed.html
U.S.  stocks  fell, sending the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  lower after a record high, as data
showed American manufacturing slid in March. The yen rose to a
three-week high, while commodities tumbled after economic
reports from  Japan ,  China  and South Korea missed estimates.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.5 percent to
1,562.17 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The yen appreciated 0.9 percent
against the dollar after declining for a sixth month in March,
the longest losing streak in 12 years. The S&P GSCI Index of 24
commodities fell 0.3 percent, with silver and corn both sliding
into a bear market. Crude oil snapped a five-day rally while
gold rose. Most European markets were closed for a holiday.  U.S. manufacturing expanded less than forecast in March as
factories slowed production and orders waned. The Bank of
Japan’s Tankan index showed pessimism among large manufacturers
and data on South Korean exports and China factory output
trailed forecasts. Shares retreated today after global stocks
beat all other investments for a second quarter in the first
three months of the year, the first back-to-back outperformance
since 2009.  “We’ve had a whole year of returns in three months,”  Tim Hartzell , who helps manage about $425 million as chief
investment officer at Sequent Asset Management in Houston, said
in a phone interview. “U.S. equities have gained at the expense
of other markets, but we may slow down as we go into the summer
season.”  Manufacturing Data  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to
51.3 in March from 54.2 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group said today. Economists projected a reading of 54 for
gauge, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.
Figures higher than 50 signal expansion.
to need good earnings reports later this month.’’  The S&P 500 rose 0.4 percent on March 28 to reach its
highest closing level. It remains below the all-time intraday
high of 1,576.09. The gauge rallied 10 percent in the first
quarter, extending a recovery that has added more than $10
trillion of value to the world’s largest stock market. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  first passed its 2007 record on March
5.  Joy Global Inc., U.S. Steel Corp. and Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. tumbled more than 2.2 percent as industrial
and raw-material shares had the biggest declines among 10  S&P
500  groups. General Mills Inc. fell 1.3 percent after Morgan
Stanley downgraded the shares.  Treasuries traded close to a four-week low after the
manufacturing data. The 10-year yield fell one basis point to
1.84 percent.  Yen Strengthens  The yen strengthened against 15 of its 16 major peers,
advancing 0.7 percent versus the euro. South Korea’s won slipped
0.2 percent against the dollar. The euro gained 0.2 percent to
$1.2849, after depreciating 1.8 percent last month.  Unemployment in the euro area probably climbed to an all-
time high of 12 percent in February, economists estimated before
a report tomorrow. European Central Bank officials meet this
week to set  interest rates .  Japan’s  Topix Index (TPX)  slid 3.3 percent, the most since March
2011, and the Nikkei 225 Stock Average declined 2.1 percent. The
Tankan rose to minus 8 in March from minus 12 in December, the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  said today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey was minus 7.  “We need to see the economy showing signs of improvement
and inflation numbers picking up in Japan,” Vasu Menon, head of
content and research at OCBC Bank Ltd. in  Singapore , said on
Bloomberg Television’s On the Move with  Rishaad Salamat . “China
is recovering, but the recovery is going to be a modest one.”  Metals Tumble  Copper futures declined to the lowest in almost eight
months after an industry report on manufacturing signaled demand
may ease in China, the world’s biggest user of industrial
metals. Futures for May delivery slid 0.8 percent on the Comex
in New York. The London Metal Exchange is closed today. Silver
fell 1.3 percent, extending a decline from Oct. 4 to 20 percent,
meeting the definition used by some investors to identify a  bear
market . Gold rose for the second time in three sessions.  Oil slid for the first time in six days, dropping 16 cents
to $97.07 a barrel, on speculation that the closure of an Exxon
Mobil Corp. pipeline will increase U.S. inventories.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was 50.9 in March, Chinese
government data showed today. The median estimate of analysts in
a Bloomberg News survey was 51.2.  Chinese Data  “The Chinese data came in below expectations, and the
realization may be starting to set in that demand isn’t picking
up as much as people thought it would,” Harry Denny, a broker
at Hoboken, New Jersey-based PVM Futures Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “The expectations for China are high, and
they’re just not there. Stocks of copper are also very high.”  Corn entered a bear market, tumbling 7.6 percent, the
biggest decline in 24 years. The price is down 23 percent since
last year’s closing high. Bigger-than-forecast stockpiles and
higher planting signal ample supplies in the U.S., the world’s
top grower and exporter. Wheat fell to a nine-month low today,
and soybeans dropped.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 0.3 percent, extending
last quarter’s 1.9 percent decline.  South Korea ’s Kospi index
slipped 0.4 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.1
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  