-- Yudhoyono Party Stumbles as Corruption Charges Undermine Support
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-03-31T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-31/yudhoyono-party-stumbles-as-corruption-charges-undermine-support.html
Indonesia’s ruling Democrat Party
chose the country’s president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, as
chairman ahead of national elections next year amid jockeying
among possible replacements that could stall spending on roads
and ports.  Yudhoyono was elected March 30 at an extraordinary congress
in Bali to succeed Anas Urbaningrum, who resigned after becoming
at least the third senior party official linked to corruption
allegations in less than two years.  The claims threaten to tarnish the legacy of Yudhoyono, who
founded the party to run for president in 2004 and is ineligible
to stand again after serving two five-year terms. Failure to
expand infrastructure could inflate business costs, boost
inflation and extend current account deficits, said Anthony Nafte, an economist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.  “You’re faced with a situation where you’ve got a
political vacuum right now until that election in July,” he
said. “It’s not as if you can identify any single candidate
where you could say ‘Oh, here we’ve got the bold leadership that
we need to give direction to Indonesia.’”  Yudhoyono’s decade at the helm of Southeast Asia’s biggest
economy is nearing an end as a trade deficit pummels the rupiah
and the economy expands at the slowest pace in more than two
years. Polls show voter support is less than half the level when
the party secured 26 percent of parliament’s  seats  in 2009.  “The party’s weakness is that it’s too dependent on one
figure,” said J. Kristiadi, a political analyst at the Center
for Strategic and International Studies in Jakarta.  Approval Rating  Yudhoyono yesterday named Syarief Hasan, minister of
cooperatives and small businesses, as daily chairman for the
party’s board of executives; House Speaker Marzuki Alie as
deputy chairman of its high council; and Transport Minister
Evert Erenst Mangindaan as daily chairman for the board of
advisers.  The Democrat Party’s approval rating tumbled to 8.3 percent
in February, according to a survey by Saiful Muljani Research &
Consulting. It won 20.85 percent of the national vote in the
2009 legislative election and 148 of parliament’s 560 seats.  Yudhoyono may help the party regain credibility, said
Kuskridho Ambardi, a political analyst at the University of
Gadjah Mada. “The SBY factor is still attractive to some
voters,” Mada said in a text message, referring to Yudhoyono’s
initials.  Bribery Case  The former treasurer, Muhammad Nazaruddin, was sentenced in
April 2012 to four years and 10 months in prison in a bribery
case involving building projects for the Southeast Asian Games
in November 2011. Youth and Sports Minister Andi Mallarangeng
resigned in December after he was named a suspect by the anti-
graft agency in a case related to a sports center in Bogor, West
Java. Chairman Urbaningrum was named a suspect in the same case
in February. Both denied any wrongdoing.  Rival parties are gaining support with parliamentary
elections due in April 2014 and the presidential vote set for
July next year. Former President Megawati Soekarnoputri,
chairwoman of the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle and
daughter of the country’s first president, Sukarno, is leading
presidential polls on 20.7 percent, followed by Golkar Party
Chairman Aburizal Bakrie on 20.3 percent, according to a March
survey by the Indonesian Survey Circle, the Jakarta Post
reported March 18.  “If we look at the surveys, none of the popular candidates
are from the Democrat Party,” Fauzi Ichsan, Jakarta-based
economist at Standard Chartered Plc, said in an interview before
the party’s congress. “So whatever the outcome is at the
congress, its relevancy to the presidential election will be
small.”  Positive Note  On a more positive note for Yudhoyono’s party last week,
his nominee for central bank governor, Finance Minister Agus Martowardojo, on March 26 won approval from a parliamentary
committee by 46 to 7, with one abstention. Martowardojo’s plan
to raise fuel prices was scuttled last year by violent protests
including an advance on parliament. Cutting fuel subsidies would
have helped curb the trade deficit and allow more spending on
infrastructure projects to spur growth.  The nomination of Martowardojo as governor of Bank
Indonesia may be an attempt to sideline him from government
decisions and “open the door for a more profligate approach to
fiscal policy ahead of the election,” Gareth Leather, a London-
based Asia economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said in a March
11 report.  Trade Deficit  Indonesia’s  trade deficit  widened to a record in October
and the rupiah has sunk about 6 percent over the past year, the
worst performer among major Asian currencies after India’s rupee
and the Japanese yen. Indonesia’s economy expanded 6.11 percent
in the last quarter, the slowest pace since the first three
months of 2010, as a slowdown in global growth hurt exports.  Indonesia missed its 2012 budget deficit target amid slow
capital expenditure, underscoring Yudhoyono’s challenge to
sustain one of Asia’s fastest growth rates with spending on
roads, ports and bridges. Infrastructure investment has fallen
to about 4 percent of gross domestic product from more than 8
percent in 1995 and 1996, Theo Thomas, senior public sector
specialist at the World Bank in Indonesia, said in December.  ‘Political Vacuum’  “Because you’ve got a political vacuum between now and the
presidential election, you’re not going to get the supply side
measures to increase productive capacity,” said CLSA’s Nafte.
“The consequences of your policy inaction are persistent
current account deficits for the next two years, accelerating
inflation in the second half of 2014 and continuing labor
unrest.”  Workers will continue to demonstrate this year until
demands such as social security reforms, outsourcing and labor
justice have been met, Detik news website in December cited Said
Iqbal, chairman of the Confederation of Indonesian Workers Union,
as saying.  Inflation accelerated to a 20-month high in February while
Bank Indonesia kept its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low
of 5.75 percent for a 13th straight month in March to support
growth.  “The economy is on autopilot,” Standard Chartered’s
Ichsan said. “The worse that could happen is that if the euro
crisis deteriorates and the government, the central bank and the
financial services authority aren’t prepared to face the crisis
like they did in 2008 when the economy team was solid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  