-- As 2012 Ends, China Tweets Doomsday
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2012-12-04T01:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/2012-ends-and-china-tweets-doomsday.html
On the morning of Dec. 1, “ Mayans ” 
entered the trending-keyword list on Sina Weibo,  China ’s 
leading Twitter-like microblog. This was not exactly 
surprising: For years, China’s netizens have been obsessed 
with  Mayan prophecies   supposedly  suggesting the world will end
on Dec. 21, 2012. (Or, perhaps, Dec. 22 in China, if time zones
are accounted for.)  By the morning of Dec. 3, “ the end of the world ” had become
the No. 2 topic of conversation on Sina Weibo, with an endless
stream of Mayan-related tweets that, at their peak, were coming
several per second.  It’s difficult to judge how many Chinese netizens believe
the Mayan prophecies and how many see them merely as a platform
for weak humor. There are strong cases for both perspectives,
with humor taking the lead. “ If the Mayans are right, I won’t
pay my credit card bill ,” is a popular quip, as is “ I won’t
study for final exams .”  Nonetheless, it’s not hard to find evidence that the Mayan
prophecy enjoys some credibility in China. Over the last
century, the Chinese have known their share of tragedy,
catastrophe and natural disaster, and an understandable thread
of pessimism runs through the national character.  Thus, it’s perhaps no accident that a Sina Weibo account
registered to “ Secret Mayan Prophecy ” currently has 1.2 million
followers (who are perhaps attracted to the animated exploding
Earth featured atop the account page) of its occasional tweets
of supporting evidence for the prophecy.  Flood Preparation  Likewise, highly unscientific online polls consistently
register widespread belief in the prophecy. In the early evening
of Dec. 3,  a poll at Sina Weibo  had 3,404 voting that they felt
the Mayans were right, and 1,646 voting that the Mayans got it
all wrong. Nobody can say for sure whether Chinese netizens are
lying on these polls. But out in western China, a retired
construction contractor is spending his life savings  building an
ark  to help him survive what he believes are prophesied floods.  Those floods aren’t Mayan prophecies, but rather the means
by which the Earth is destroyed in “ 2012 ,” a big-budget American
disaster epic from 2009. In the film, the Mayan prophecy, and
scientific measurements, inspire world leaders to commission
arks designed to save a very select group of humans, wildlife
and cultural relics from Dec. 21’s plagues.  To accomplish this daunting construction contract in time,
the world’s powers -- and director Roland Emmerich -- make a
choice that flatters Chinese sensibilities: They build the arks
in  Tibet , utilizing Chinese laborers. When the floods come, 
those Chinese-built arks save humanity. No surprise, “2012”
 was a box-office hit in China , and, ever since, the Mayan 
disaster prophecy and 2012 jokes have been fixtures on China’s
microblogs. On Nov. 20, the film was re-released to Chinese
theaters in a 3D version, and its success, as well as the
arrival of December, appears to be the best explanation for
why the Mayans are suddenly atop trending-keyword lists.  Of course, not everyone in China views the end times as
a disaster or a joke. China being China, some tweeters see 
the impending apocalypse as nothing more than an opportunity
for a sale. “There are around 10 days left until the world
ends!”  tweeted  a small-town Honda dealership in  Guangdong
province  on Dec. 2. “Which car do you want to take with you?”  Wang Tao , a popular  entrepreneur  and angel investor, 
took this as  an opportunity  to speculate on the stock market:
“There are only 20 days left in the final countdown of Mayan
prediction of the end of world! What’s your opinion on how far
the Chinese stock market will drop? Will the Shanghai Index
drop to 1,500 points?”  Political Points  The impending end has also been used to make political
points. Many netizens -- and, apparently, many state-owned 
news organizations -- thought that  three major infrastructure 
and building “collapses” that took place in China on Nov. 29
had an uncanny resemblance to comic book visions of the
end of the world (probably inspired by Emmerich’s “2012”).  City Express, a popular, state-owned evening newspaper
in Zhejiang province,  tweeted photos  of the collapses with
this commentary:  “Today three major collapses happened nationwide. 
1. A sink hole opened near the Palace Station of the Nanjing
Metro Line 3 and a bus filled with passengers fell into it … 
2. In Xiamen, the Jiangjun Temple Road collapsed and four 
cars were destroyed; 3. At the Guangzhou headquarters of 
Hainan Airlines a portion of the construction collapsed,
burying alive a father of twins. PS: This convinces one to
believe in the Mayans!”  The intent of this tweet is a matter of some controversy.
Some netizens see it as an attempt to shake off blame for poor
infrastructure. “This is a man-made disaster,” wrote one user 
in the comment thread beneath the City Express tweet. A second
expressed outrage that the Mayans would even be invoked under
such circumstances: “Taking this kind of thing as an excuse for
shoddy engineering?”  More likely, though, the comments are over-interpreting
what is actually intended as a pointed critique of the local
governments and contractors thought to be responsible for
China’s shoddy buildings. As a state-run newspaper, City 
Express wouldn’t really dare to criticize so directly (or 
generally), so it has used the most convenient platform 
available: Mayan prophecy.  In the hours and days following its tweet, several other
news organizations posted their own versions of the same tweet
to their Sina Weibo accounts,  including the Shanghai Evening
Post , a paper owned by Shanghai’s Communist Party Committee.
That’s a powerful, if subtle endorsement of a sentiment that
couldn’t otherwise be written and tweeted so directly.  Still, most of the Mayan prophecy tweets driving this topic
to the top of China’s trending-topic lists are neither political
nor particularly subtle. Instead, they announce what believers
and nonbelievers alike will do before the end. Here and there, a
different perspective emerges.  Microblogging Monk  On Nov. 27, a Chinese expatriate in  Germany  logged into his
Sina Weibo account, troubled. His timing was good: Master
Yancan, a popular microblogging Buddhist monk (he has 4.3
million followers on Sina Weibo) was just then taking 20 minutes
worth of tweeted questions from anyone who cared to ask. The
expat  posted  this curious query: “Master, this year is the end
of the world. But if it’s not, what should we do?”  Master Yancan, who also serves as vice president of Hebei
province’s government-chartered and run Buddhist Patriotic
Association, needed only one minute to come up with an answer.
It likely stands as the first instance of a Chinese official at
any level expressing public confidence (even if perhaps joking,
which is a genuine possibility for the puckish monk) in the
truth of the Mayan prophecy: “Post more weibos to celebrate the
end of the world. Let’s live tweet it together with joy. Isn’t
it a new festival?”  Master Yancan might yet turn out to be wrong about the end
of the world, but on one matter he’s certain to be right: The
countdown to doomsday is guaranteed to be tweeted -- in Chinese.  (Adam Minter, the  Shanghai  correspondent for the  World View 
blog , is writing a book on the global recycling industry. The 
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter at
 ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 