-- Abramovich to Buy Norilsk Stake to End Feud
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-12-04T16:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/abramovich-buys-norilsk-nickel-stake-as-rusal-potanin-end-feud.html
Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich
agreed to buy 7.3 percent of OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel (MNOD)  as the two
biggest owners of the world’s top supplier of the metal seek to
end a four-year feud over control of the company.  Abramovich’s Millhouse LLC investment company will acquire
the stake in Moscow-based Norilsk as part of a settlement
between shareholders United Co. Rusal and billionaire Vladimir
Potanin, Rusal said today in a statement.  Potanin, whose Interros Holding Co. owns 28 percent of
Norilsk, will take over as chief executive officer, Rusal said.
Rusal, controlled by billionaire Oleg Deripaska, owns 25.1
percent of Norilsk. The agreement increases the prospects for a
resolution of the shareholder dispute which in 4 1/2 years has
contributed to a 48 percent decline in Norilsk’s London stock
from its May 2008 high and stymied investment in expansion.  The agreement marks a “big compromise” for Potanin,
because he is weakening his grip on Norilsk, Kirill Chuyko, head
of equity research at BCS Financial Group in Moscow, said by
phone today. Rusal will gain from larger dividends proposed
under the agreement, he said.  Abramovich’s Millhouse will transfer its stake in Norilsk
to an escrow account, where it will be matched by equal stakes
from Rusal and Potanin, Rusal and Interros said in a joint
statement today. Millhouse will control compliance with the
partnership agreement by voting those shares, they said.  Shares Gain  Norilsk advanced 1.4 percent to 4,876 rubles by the close
in Moscow, the highest in almost a month and valuing the company
at about $30 billion. Rusal rose 2.4 percent to HK$4.65 in Hong
Kong.  Potanin and Deripaska’s agreement was reached in private,
according to billionaire  Alisher Usmanov , whose Metalloinvest
holds 4 percent of Norilsk. The success of the accord depends on
Norilsk performing in the interests of all shareholders,
Usmanov, who wasn’t party to the talks, said in an e-mailed
response to Bloomberg questions. “I’m not sure this principle
won’t be broken this time as well,” he said.  A Norilsk board meeting will be called “shortly” for the
appointment of Potanin as CEO and to approve the sale of the
stake to Millhouse at a market price, Interros and Rusal said in
their statement.  Millhouse agreed to buy its Norilsk stock at a level close
to the three-month average, three people familiar with the
matter said, asking not to be identified as the information
isn’t public. That would value the purchase at about $2.2
billion according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Richest Men  Potanin and Deripaska have battled publicly and in the
courts for control of Norilsk since May 2008. The dispute, which
involved some of  Russia ’s richest men, mired the country’s
biggest mining company in lawsuits and constrained investment.
Rusal has rejected at least three offers to sell out of Norilsk
since October 2010, rebuffing an $8.75 billion offer from
Norilsk itself for 15 percent in September 2011.  A London arbitration court was scheduled to start hearing a
claim from Rusal yesterday against Potanin about an alleged
breach of their 2008 shareholder agreement on board
representation at Norilsk. That hearing has been delayed until
February, Kommersant newspaper reported today, citing an
unidentified person familiar with the matter.  John Mann, Millhouse’s spokesman, declined to comment,
while Interros’s press service wasn’t immediately available for
comments. Rusal’s press office declined to comment on details of
the deal with Abramovich.  CEO Ouster  Rusal has called many times for the ouster of Norilsk CEO
Vladimir Strzhalkovsky, claiming the former chief of Russia’s
tourism agency lacked mining industry experience. Deripaska also
clashed with Potanin over Norilsk’s buybacks, which amounted to
$9 billion last year, and the percentage of profit paid out in
dividends.  The parties are also discussing increasing dividend
payments to at least 50 percent of annual net income, people
familiar with the talks said last month.  Norilsk may not only double payments to shareholders from
profits, it is also likely to return to holders the more than $2
billion Abramovich will invest in stock as dividends, Alexei Morozov, an analyst at UBS AG in Moscow, said by phone.  The shares Abramovich is buying are part of the 17 percent
of the company held by units as so-called quasi-treasury shares.
The remainder of those shares will be canceled, Rusal said.  Dividend Stability  Under the accord, which Rusal’s board approved yesterday,
the parties will seek to halt all court actions related to
Norilsk and also ensure the “stability of dividends” paid by
Norilsk from 2012 to 2014, Rusal said.  “Abramovich should eventually come up as a guarantor of
general parity of shareholders’ rights, restoring the balance
between Interros and Deripaska,”  Mikhail Stiskin , a Sberbank
Investment Research analyst, said in a note today.  The dispute “made it difficult” for Norilsk and stopped
the company, which also produces half of the world’s palladium,
from fulfilling its potential, Pierre Lorinet, chief financial
officer of Trafigura Beheer BV, which owns less than 1 percent
of Norilsk, said in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday.  The composition of the 13-member Norilsk board will change
to reflect the stake purchase by Millhouse, which will get three
seats. Potanin and Rusal will get four each, Rusal said, adding
that the latter two will also each nominate an independent
director. One of the independent directors will be chairman.  Rusal and Potanin committed to retain their stakes in
Norilsk for five years and Millhouse for three years after the
date of the agreement, “subject to certain exceptions,” Rusal
said, without identifying what these were.  Accord Breaches  The agreement signals that Potanin won’t be able to
increase his stake in Norilsk, something he was intending to do,
UBS’s Morozov said.  Should any party breach the accord, the others will be able
to buy 7.5 percent of Norilsk from the defaulting party at a 25
percent discount to the average market price for the previous 30
days, Rusal said. Another option available to the non-defaulting
parties is to buy 1.875 percent of Norilsk from the side that
breached the accord for $1, Rusal said.  Abramovich, owner of the London-based Chelsea Football Club
and the largest shareholder in steelmaker  Evraz Plc (EVR) , is a former
business partner of Deripaska. The two pooled aluminum smelters
to form Russian Aluminum in 2000. Abramovich later sold his half
of the company to Deripaska, who then went on to create United
Co. Rusal via a 2006 three-way merger with Sual Group and the
alumina assets of Swiss commodity trader  Glencore International
Plc. (GLEN)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  