-- Ackman-Backed CEO Cuts Canadian Pacific Workforce by 23%
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-12-04T22:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/ackman-backed-ceo-cuts-canadian-pacific-workforce-by-23-.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  plans
to cut about 23 percent of its workforce in four years as Chief
Executive Officer Hunter Harrison, hired after a proxy fight by
hedge-fund manager  William Ackman , boosts profitability at the
least efficient of North America’s large railroads.  The company plans to trim its workforce of 19,500 employees
and contractors by 4,500 through 2016, using job cuts and
attrition, the railroad said before Harrison outlined his
strategy with investors in New York. The new CEO is also closing
container-car terminals and re-evaluating assets from the 2007
acquisition of Dakota  Minnesota  & Eastern Railroad.  Ackman and Harrison have both said Canadian Pacific could
cut its operating ratio -- a measure of expenses to revenue --
to about 65 percent in four years. Harrison reaffirmed the
pledge when the company reported third-quarter earnings.  “We have initiated a rapid-change agenda and have made
tremendous progress in my first 160 days, and we are only
getting started,’” Harrison said in a statement today. The
shares have climbed about 26 percent to C$93 since June 28, the
day before Harrison’s appointment was announced.  Ackman backed Harrison for the job as he sought to boost
investor returns at the 131-year-old company after his Pershing
Square Capital Management LP became its largest shareholder in
2011.  DM&E Assets  About 1,700 of the job cuts will be completed by the end of
this year, the Calgary-based company said.  The railroad will also explore options for its real estate
holdings and relocate corporate headquarters to a new office in
Ogden Yard by 2014, according to today’s statement.  Canadian Pacific  is considering the sale of a midwestern
U.S. line acquired with its purchase of DM&E, a second swipe at
the 2007 deal criticized by Ackman.  Harrison is also reviewing other options for the line,
which includes about 660 miles of track from Minnesota through
 South Dakota , Nebraska and Wyoming. Canadian Pacific said
yesterday that it will delay indefinitely options included in
the DM&E transaction to expand its rail network into the Powder
River Basin, the largest U.S. coal reserve.  During the third quarter, Canadian Pacific closed four hump
yards, used to separate and sort rail cars, and intermodal
terminals in cities such as Chicago and  Milwaukee  to trim
operating costs and set the stage for potential land sales,
Harrison said in October.  “This is a key part of  Hunter Harrison ’s plan to improve
efficiencies and is a logical move considering the increased
number of bulk and intermodal trains that require little or no
assembly in yards,”  Cameron Doerksen , an analyst at National
Bank Financial in  Montreal , said in a Nov. 30 note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  