-- Thailand’s Bonds Fall as Rate-Cut Bets Ease on Recovery Optimism
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-12-04T02:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/thailand-s-bonds-fall-as-rate-cut-bets-ease-on-recovery-optimism.html
Thailand ’s government bonds dropped,
sending the benchmark three-year yield to a five-week high, on
speculation the central bank will refrain from cutting  interest
rates  after exports rebounded last month. The baht was steady.  Exports, which account for about two-thirds of Southeast
 Asia ’s second-largest economy, climbed 14 percent in October
after falling 0.1 percent the previous month, a Nov. 30 central
bank report showed. The Bank of Thailand kept borrowing costs
unchanged Nov. 28 after an unexpected cut in October, citing
strong local demand and an improving global economy. Governor
Prasarn Trairatvorakul said a further reduction wasn’t needed.  “Recent data suggests the global economy as a whole is
beginning to bottom out, and the bond yields are rising to
reflect less likelihood of further rate cuts,” Tohru Nishihama,
an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo .
“Funds are flowing into Asia, especially into bonds, and the
recent yield gains reflect a position adjustment rather than a
long-term trend.”  The yield on the 3.125 percent securities due December 2015
rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.95 percent
as of 9:10 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the highest level since Oct. 25.  The central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
at 2.75 percent last week after lowering it by a quarter of a
percentage point in October.  Consumer prices  rose 2.74 percent
in November, compared with a 3.32 percent gain the previous
month, official data showed yesterday.  The baht was unchanged from yesterday at 30.65 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in exchange rates used
to price options, dropped 14 basis points to 3.89 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  