-- Malaysia Stocks Seen Extending Drop on Election: Southeast Asia
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-12-05T02:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/malaysia-stocks-seen-extending-drop-on-election-southeast-asia.html
Malaysian  stocks  are poised to extend
losses after completing their worst month since September 2011
on concern the nation’s ruling coalition may lose seats in
elections, according to UBS AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  retreated 3.7
percent last month, after reaching a peak on Nov. 1. The gauge
slumped to a five-month low on Nov. 27, dragging valuations to
14.7 times estimated profit, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Even after the declines, the KLCI Index is trading at a 28
percent  premium  to the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  Prime Minister Najib Razak said last weekend elections may
come soon as his ruling Barisan Nasional, or National Front,
alliance attempts to regain a two-thirds parliamentary majority
it lost in 2008. The KLCI Index slumped 39 percent that year,
the most since 1997, on concern a stronger opposition would
stymie government investment plans. UBS’s Kelvin Tay recommends
investors avoid Malaysian equities for now.  “The elections are going to be an overhang on the
market,” Tay, the Singapore-based chief investment officer for
the southern Asia-Pacific region at UBS’s wealth management
unit, said in a Nov. 23 interview. “Where Malaysia is
concerned, in the last three-to-four elections, whenever Barisan
Nasional loses more seats, the foreign direct investment tends
to drop. That’s what the market is actually fearful of.”  Favorite Market  The KLCI Index rose 0.2 percent at 9:57 a.m. in  Kuala
Lumpur , with trading volume 36 percent lower than the 30-day
average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index fell 0.1 percent.  Tay’s favorite market is  China , where the official target
for economic growth this year is 7.5 percent, compared with the
5 percent Malaysia’s government is estimating. Goldman Sachs
downgraded Malaysian stocks to underweight in a Nov. 29 report,
citing a preference for Indian equities.  “The Malaysian equity market has corrected in recent
weeks, in part due to potential political uncertainty
surrounding upcoming elections and investors rotating out of the
year’s earlier winners into other markets,” Goldman Sachs
analysts led by Timothy Moe wrote in the report.  Najib’s National Front is seeking to extend its 55 years in
power and improve on 2008, when it won elections by the
narrowest margin since independence in 1957. The alliance holds
137 parliamentary seats out of 222, according to the Malaysian
parliament website. The opposition has 76, while independent
lawmakers hold the remainder.  Election Target  The National Front has revised its election target and is
now aiming to regain its two-thirds majority, the Star newspaper
reported on Dec. 2, citing Najib. The prime minister said in
March winning a clear majority would be “challenging.” Former
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad said Sept. 20 that while the
alliance would “most likely” win, the government would achieve
weaker results than in 2008, the  Malaysia  Chronicle  reported .  The KLCI Index’s slump in 2008 was the worst annual
performance since the 1997 financial crisis. The head of the
opposition-led government in Selangor state said after winning
power from the National Front in 2008 that he would review a
contract awarded to Puncak Niaga Holdings Bhd. The stock sank
6.4 percent to a 16-month low on March 18 that year, after news
on the contract review was reported by the Star newspaper.  Foreign direct investment  into Malaysia slid 14 percent to
$7.4 billion in 2008, data from the World Bank show, after the
election results and as the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. triggered a global financial crisis.  Underweight Malaysia  “We have been underweight Malaysia as we are not finding
 growth stocks  at reasonable prices,” Yuko Namaki, a Tokyo-based
 fund manager  who helps manage $282 billion in assets at Nomura
Asset Management Co., wrote in a Nov. 29 e-mail. “The
government seems to be focusing on preparing for the impending
general election. Investor sentiment seems poor due to the
uncertainty.” She’s been selling Malaysian equities in the past
six months.  David Ng , who oversees about $5.9 billion as chief
investment officer of Hwang Investment Management Bhd., said on
Nov. 27 he used last month’s declines to buy shares of
telecommunications companies. The premium at which the Malaysian
gauge’s price-earnings ratio trades over the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index dropped that day to the lowest level since January
2011.  The KLCI Index climbed earlier this year amid speculation
the government infrastructure spending pledged by Najib in 2010
will shelter the nation from  Europe ’s debt crisis and a global
economic slowdown. Thirty-day historical  volatility  on the gauge
has averaged 7.3 this year, less than the  MSCI AC World Index (MXWD) ’s
13.1, data compiled by Bloomberg show. KLCI Index stocks have an
average dividend yield of 3.6 percent, compared with the MSCI
World’s 2.8 percent, the data show.  Less Risky  Demand for less risky assets is diminishing as confidence
in global growth rises. The world economy is in its best shape
in 18 months as the U.S. looks likely to avoid the tax increases
and spending cuts known as the fiscal cliff, according to the
latest Bloomberg Global Poll of investors.  KLCI Index companies posted average third-quarter  profit
growth  of 4.9 percent, lagging behind the  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index (MXEF) ’s 13 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Earnings of
KLCI Index companies are predicted to  increase  3.1 percent in
the next 12 months, compared with the MSCI gauge’s 19 percent,
according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “I don’t like Malaysian stocks right now,” said UBS’s
Tay. “How do I justify telling you to buy Malaysian equities if
there’s no growth, the market doesn’t look fantastic and there’s
no catalyst? It doesn’t make sense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  