-- American Suzuki Wins Shutdown Support From Auto Dealers
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-12-04T21:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/american-suzuki-wins-shutdown-support-from-auto-dealers.html
American  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) , the
bankrupt U.S. distributor of Suzuki cars and motorcycles, won
support from 97 percent of its auto dealers to shut down new-car
sales while continuing warranty work for existing customers.  Suzuki’s parent company, Suzuki Motor Corp., had asked its
automobile dealers to voluntarily cancel their existing
franchise agreements in exchange for half of what they are owed
immediately and the rest through the normal bankruptcy process,
Suzuki said in court papers filed last night in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in  Santa Ana ,  California .  Canceling the contracts means the dealers will be owed
about $42 million, according to court papers. The dealers who
accepted the offer will be repaid everything they are owed,
which is rare in  bankruptcy court , M. Freddie Reiss, American
Suzuki’s chief restructuring officer, said in an interview.  “They have gone out of their way in taking care of their
dealers,” Reiss said.  On Nov. 5, Shizuoka, Japan-based Suzuki Motor put the
distributor into bankruptcy to end losses in the U.S. market, to
avoid the costs of tightening federal regulations and to shut
down a sales network in which 69 percent of dealers sell fewer
than five cars a month. By winning support from almost all of
its dealers, the company may avoid long court battles over the
franchise agreements, which are often protected by state laws.  On Time  Because of the settlement, the company should be able to
restructure and exit bankruptcy on time, American Suzuki said in
a statement.  American Suzuki owes its parent about $152 million,
according to court records. To help guarantee dealers who
settled will be repaid everything owed to them, Suzuki Motor
agreed to subordinate that debt, Reiss said in an interview.  The company plans to reorganize its motorcycle, boat and
all-terrain vehicle business and continue selling through
separate dealers, American Suzuki said in court papers.  Dealers will sell their remaining cars and continue to
provide parts and warranty work and other repairs to hundreds of
thousands of Suzuki automobile owners, the company said in a
statement.  American Suzuki auto  sales  rose 22 percent in November to
2,224 units, the company said in a statement. That leaves the
company with about 1,700 cars in the U.S. to be delivered to
dealers, Reiss said. Those cars are likely to be sold by March,
he said.  The case is In re American Suzuki Motor Corp., 12-22808,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Central District of California (Santa
Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  