-- Landowners May Be Due Payment After Flooding, Court Says
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-12-04T16:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/landowners-may-be-due-payment-after-flooding-court-says.html
The government may have to compensate
property owners whose land is temporarily flooded when officials
release water from an upstream dam, the U.S. Supreme Court
ruled.  In a unanimous decision, the justices today said those
landowners might have a claim under the constitutional provision
that requires “just compensation” when the government seizes
or occupies private property.  Writing for the court, Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  said a
federal appeals court was wrong to categorically exclude
temporary floods from the scope of that provision. There is “no
solid grounding in precedent for setting flooding apart from all
other government intrusions on property,” Ginsburg wrote.  The ruling is a victory for the Arkansas Game and Fish
Commission, which is seeking to revive a trial court’s $5.7
million award against the federal government for damage done to
trees in a wildlife area along the Black River. The commission
blames the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers for periodically
releasing water from a nearby dam at the request of farmers.  The ruling doesn’t necessarily mean the commission will
collect on that award. Calling the ruling a “modest” one,
Ginsburg said the federal government will have a chance to make
several additional arguments.  Letting temporary-flooding cases go forward “is scarcely
to credit all, or even many, such claims,” she wrote. She said
courts should weigh a number of factors, including the duration
of the intrusion, in deciding whether compensation is warranted.  The  National Association of Home Builders , the  American
Farm Bureau Federation  and the American Forest Resource Council
were among the groups supporting the Arkansas Game and Fish
Commission in the case.  The case is Arkansas Game and Fish Commission v.  United
States , 11-597.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  