-- Tanker Rates Rising as Ethanol Imports Triple Into U.S.: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-12-04T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/tanker-rates-rising-as-ethanol-imports-triple-into-u-s-freight.html
The U.S. is importing the most
ethanol in four years after the country’s worst drought in a
half century drove corn prices to a record, boosting demand for
tankers hauling the fuel.  Imports almost tripled in the third quarter from a year ago
after domestic output slumped for the first time in 16 years,
Energy Department data show. Almost all the extra supply is
being shipped by Brazilian refiners, who use sugar as a
feedstock. Shares of  Odfjell SE (ODF) , the world’s second-biggest
operator of chemical tankers, will almost double in the next
year, according to the average of five analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The least rainfall since 1956 drove corn, the main ethanol
ingredient, up as much as 68 percent since June and as many as
10 companies from  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  to  Biofuel Energy Corp. (BIOF) 
closed plants. Gasoline suppliers are now more reliant on
imports to meet laws requiring a 10 percent ethanol blend in the
fuel. While that’s boosting shipping by diminishing the glut of
vessels, it’s coming at a time when the U.S. is meeting more of
its own energy needs than at any time in the past 21 years.  “We’re using Brazilian imports to plug the gap,” said
Jerrod Kitt, the director of research at Linn Group, a Chicago-
based commodities research company. “In terms of the stated
goal of reducing dependence on foreign fuels, the  Brazil  imports
haven’t exactly helped.”  Loss Narrows  Ethanol is one of about 500 products, including alcohols
for solvents, aromatics for paints and sulfuric acid for
insecticides, carried on the 550-foot-long chemical tankers.
Some also haul refined fuels such as gasoline and diesel. Rates
for the ships across 23 trade routes rose to a record average of
$70.39 a metric ton this year, 4 percent more than in 2011,
according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker.  Shares of Odfjell, based in Bergen, Norway, will reach
33.10 kroner in 12 months, reversing this year’s 51 percent
slump, the analysts’ estimates show. The company’s net loss will
narrow to $31.56 million for 2013, from $99 million this year,
according to the average of seven estimates. Margrethe
Gudbrandsen, a spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Stolt-Nielsen Ltd. (SNI) , based in  London , is the largest
operator of chemical tankers, with 154. Its shares will rise 40
percent to 138.8 kroner in the next 12 months, reversing this
year’s 18 percent drop, according to the average of five analyst
estimates. Odfjell has 99 vessels and  Eitzen Chemical ASA (ECHEM)  52.  Gasoline Consumption  Ethanol is made in the U.S. by fermenting starches from
corn to create a high-proof alcohol. In Brazil it’s distilled
from sugar cane. U.S. output has dropped 17 percent to 803,000
barrels a day this year, Energy Department data show. That’s 900
million gallons (about 20 million barrels) less than refiners
are mandated to use each year under a 2007 law requiring them to
mix 13.2 billion gallons of biofuels with gasoline in 2012 and
15 billion by 2015.  Imports rose to 1.89 million barrels in September, the most
since September 2008, Energy Department data show. Monthly
exports fell to 1.57 million barrels this year from a record
average of 2.37 million in 2011. The fuel accounts for about 9.5
percent of daily gasoline consumption, according to the
 Renewable Fuels Association , the industry’s largest trade group.  Inbound shipments boost tanker demand more than exports
because Canada takes 53 percent of U.S. sales while Brazil
provides 86 percent of imports. U.S. laws make it more
attractive to buy from Brazil because the fuel pollutes less
than U.S. supply, according to Claudiu Covrig, an ethanol
analyst at Sucden Geneva SA.  Gasoline Costs  U.S. ethanol production may rebound should corn prices
retreat or gasoline costs advance. Grain for delivery a year
from now is about 16 percent cheaper, compared with 6.5 percent
for the fuel.  Based on December contracts for ethanol and corn, producers
are losing about 34 cents on each gallon produced, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. They were making about 2 cents a
year ago. That doesn’t include profit from the sale of dried
distillers’ grains, a byproduct that can be fed to livestock.  Owners of chemical tankers may see demand weaken after the
 International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 forecast for world
growth twice since July, to 3.6 percent. Dow Chemical Co., the
largest U.S. producer, said in October business conditions were
the worst since the global recession as it cut 2,400 jobs.
DuPont Co. said that month it was eliminating 1,500 positions.  Investment Bank  Shipping rates may still rise next year because the fleet’s
capacity will drop 1 percent, the first contraction since at
least 1996, according to  ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA (ASC) , an
investment bank in Oslo.  The chemical shipping market has a smaller glut than crude-
 oil tankers  and dry-bulk carriers because owners ordered fewer
new vessels before the recession. Contracts with ship yards
peaked at 25 percent of existing capacity four years ago,
compared with 48 percent for oil tankers and 74 percent for
bulkers, according to data from  IHS Inc. (IHS) , an Englewood,
Colorado-based research company.  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity shipping
costs, dropped 38 percent this year, according to the  Baltic
Exchange , the London-based publisher of rates on more than 50
maritime routes. Rates for the largest oil tankers slumped 40
percent to $30,919 a day since April, Clarkson data show.  Chemical tankers can boost income by taking oil products
such as gasoline from the U.S. Gulf to Latin American and then
collecting Brazilian ethanol on their return, said Frode Moerkedal, an analyst at RS Platou Markets AS, the investment-
banking unit of Norway’s largest shipbroker. Exports of refined
products averaged 2.84 million barrels a day this year, heading
for the highest level since at least 1993, and 24 percent went
to  South America  in September, Energy Department data show.  Energy Needs  The U.S. met 83 percent of its energy needs in the first
half, heading for the highest level since 1991, according to
Energy Department data. President  Barack Obama  cited “freeing
ourselves from foreign oil” as a policy goal in his speech on
the night of his re-election Nov 5. With rising domestic output
from underground shale rocks, the world’s largest crude importer
will surpass  Saudi Arabia  as the biggest oil producer by 2020,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  Corn surged to an all-time high of $8.49 a bushel in August
on the Chicago Board of Trade. Prices averaged a record $6.86
this year. Raw sugar fell 15 percent to 19.81 cents a pound in
 New York  trading and ethanol futures gained 7.3 percent to
$2.411 a gallon. Average retail pump prices for gasoline rose
3.3 percent to $3.387 a gallon, according to AAA.  “We’ve had to import a lot of ethanol from Brazil,” said
Ryan Olmstead, a broker at Odin Marine Group LLC in Stamford,
 Connecticut , who specializes in the vessels. “There’s still an
oversaturation of ships in the market, but you’re just now
starting to see the market turn a little bit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingale@bloomberg.net  