-- Arizona Marijuana Law Is Constitutional, State Judge Says
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-12-05T01:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/arizona-marijuana-law-is-constitutional-state-judge-says.html
An  Arizona  voter-approved law that
decriminalizes the possession and sale of marijuana for medical
uses isn’t pre-empted by the federal Controlled Substances Act
and therefore isn’t unconstitutional, a state judge said.  Maricopa County Superior Court Judge  Michael Gordon  said in
an order filed yesterday that the Arizona law doesn’t undermine
the purposes of the federal law, which he said was to combat
drug abuse and to regulate traffic in controlled substances.  “The mere state authorization of a very limited amount of
federally proscribed conduct, under a tight regulatory scheme,
provides no meaningful obstacle to federal enforcement,” Gordon
said. “No one can argue that the federal government’s ability
to enforce the CSA is impaired to the slightest degree.”  The lawsuit was brought on behalf of White Mountain Health
Center Inc., which seeks to open a dispensary in Sun City, a
retirement community outside Phoenix. Officials in Maricopa
County, which includes Phoenix, have refused to provide required
zoning documents because they argue the Arizona law violates
public policy.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  joined the lawsuit on
behalf of the clinic. Arizona Governor Jan Brewer and Attorney
General Tom Horne joined the lawsuit on behalf of Maricopa
County, arguing that the state law could expose state employees
to federal prosecution.  Brewer’s Focus  “The State of Arizona is focused on implementing the
Medical Marijuana Act in accordance with the law,” Matthew
Benson, a spokesman for Brewer, said in an e-mailed statement.  The judge ordered Maricopa County officials to provide
White Mountain Health Center with documentation that there is
either no zoning restriction for the dispensary’s location or
that the dispensary’s location is in compliance with zoning law.  “This should end the unprecedented spectacle of Maricopa
County Attorney Montgomery and Arizona Attorney General Horne
arguing that an Arizona state law passed by the voters is
unconstitutional,” Dan Pochoda, legal director of ACLU of
Arizona, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is White Mountain Health Center v. County of
Maricopa, CV2012-053585, Arizona Superior Court, Maricopa County
(Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  