-- LaSalle Favors Asian Hotels for Investments on High Occupancies
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-12-04T03:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/lasalle-favors-asian-hotels-for-investments-on-high-occupancies.html
LaSalle Investment Management , a
division of the world’s second-largest commercial real estate
brokerage, said it favors Asian hotels because of high occupancy
rates.  Revenue per available room  in luxury hotels in  Tokyo 
climbed almost 38 percent in the first six months of 2012 from a
year earlier, while  Shanghai ’s top-tier hotels had growth of 28
percent and Jakarta’s upscale hotels’ revenue climbed 21 percent,
Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels figures show.  LaSalle Investment, which manages about $7 billion in
property in  Asia , is betting that an increase in prices of
higher-quality properties, driven by demand from pension and
sovereign wealth funds, will attract other investors.
International visitor arrivals to  Southeast Asia  grew 8 percent
in May from a year earlier, while in northeast Asia and south
Asia they rose 4 percent and 6 percent, respectively, the latest
figures from Pacific Asia Travel Association showed.  Incomes “are growing quite rapidly, particularly in  China 
and developing Asia, and what historically has gone hand in hand
with that is the desire to travel,” Guest told reporters in
Sydney today. In most of Asia, “hotel stock is outdated and
occupancy rates have remained high and stable.”  Economies in Asia excluding Japan will grow an average of
about 5 percent in 2013, compared with 2.5 percent expansion in
the rest of the world, Guest said, citing figures from IHS
Global Insight Inc.  Australian Apartments  Industrial properties are also attractive investments as
supply constraints amid growing demand boost returns, Guest said.
Tokyo, Singapore and Hong Kong were among the five most
 expensive cities  for logistic property rents in the three months
to Sept. 30, driven by demand for “more sophisticated, modern
facilities,” according to broker CBRE Group Inc.  In  Australia , tight vacancy rates in inner and urban areas
of Sydney and early signs of a recovery in the nation’s most
populous city make apartments an attractive investment, said
Alexandra Gray, Sydney-based associate director for research and
strategy at LaSalle Investment, at the press conference.  Home prices  in Sydney rose 2.5 percent in the 11 months to
Nov. 30, the biggest gain among Australia’s five biggest cities,
with the city’s apartment prices jumping 4.1 percent, figures
from researcher RP Data showed. Prices of houses and apartments
fell 0.6 percent across the nation’s eight state and territory
capitals during the period, the data showed.  LaSalle Investment, the unit of Chicago-based  Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , is partnering with local developers to build about
7,000 apartments in Sydney, Gray said.  The projects include the 318-unit  Erko development  in
Erskineville, a southwestern suburb of Sydney about 5 kilometers
(3.1 miles) from the city center, in partnership with Leighton
Properties; and a joint ventures with  Australand Property Group (ALZ) 
on two apartment projects in southwestern Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  