-- Auburn Hires Malzahn, Arkansas Gets Bielema in College Football
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-12-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/auburn-hires-ex-offensive-coordinator-malzahn-as-football-coach.html
Gus Malzahn is returning to  Auburn
University  as head football coach, a season after leaving for
 Arkansas  State, and Bret Bielema is moving from the University
of  Wisconsin  to the University of Arkansas as head coach.  Auburn and Arkansas, both in the  Southeastern Conference ,
announced the hiring of their new coaches yesterday.  Auburn did not release terms of the contract it offered
Malzahn, 47, who was offensive coordinator there in 2009-11 and
helped guide the Tigers to the 2010 national championship with
Cam Newton at quarterback.  “This is a homecoming for me, and I look forward to being
reunited with the Auburn family,” Malzahn, who led Arkansas
State to a 9-3 record and the Sun Belt Conference title this
season, said in a release on Auburn’s website.  Malzahn replaces Gene Chizik, who was fired Nov. 25 after
the Tigers went winless in conference play this season. Chizik,
50, was 33-19 in four seasons at Auburn.  Bielema, 42, was 68-24 with the Badgers since 2006 and has
taken the team to three consecutive  Rose Bowl  games. Wisconsin
has been ranked in the Associated Press Top 10 during five of
Bielema’s seven seasons in Madison.  Wisconsin (8-5), which won the Big Ten championship, plays
 Stanford University  (11-2) in the Rose Bowl on Jan. 1. It was
not immediately clear whether Bielema would coach the Badgers in
that game.  Arkansas did not release terms of his contract. The deal is
for six years and is worth $3.2 million annually, AP reported,
citing a person familiar with the situation who requested
anonymity.  Arkansas opened the season ranked No. 10 in the AP poll
before losing four of its first five games and finishing 4-8
under first-year coach John L. Smith. It was the first time
since 2008 that the Fayetteville-based Razorbacks failed to
become eligible for a postseason bowl game.  Boston College  Smith, 64, was fired as Razorbacks coach last month. He
replaced Bobby Petrino, who was fired in April after four
seasons when he was injured in a motorcycle accident and then
covered up the fact that a female football staff member also was
on the bike.  Also yesterday,  Boston College  hired Steve Addazio as its
new football coach. Addazio, 53, led  Temple University  to a 13-
11 record the past two seasons. He replaces Frank Spaziani, who
was fired after four seasons as head coach at Boston College.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Gloster at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net  