-- Australia’s Current-Account Deficit Widened Last Quarter
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-12-04T00:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/australia-s-current-account-deficit-widened-last-quarter.html
Australia ’s current-account  deficit 
widened more than economists forecast in the three months
through September on weaker prices for iron ore and coal, the
nation’s two biggest commodity exports.  The shortfall on goods, services and investment was A$14.9
billion ($15.5 billion) from a revised A$12.4 billion in the
second quarter, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today.
The median  estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists
was for a A$14.6 billion gap. Net exports added 0.1 percentage
point to gross domestic product growth in the third quarter, the
bureau said today.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  has
reduced the benchmark  interest rate  by 1.5 percentage points
since November last year to stimulate industries outside of
resources as commodity prices ease. A high currency has hurt
earnings for manufacturers and retailers, helping create what
the RBA has referred to as a multispeed economy with those
industries lagging behind mining companies.  The result reflects “drags from the terms of trade,”
 Stephen Walters , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief economist in
Australia, said before the report, referring to a weakening in
the export prices that have driven the nation’s wealth gains.  The  net-income deficit  was little changed at A$10 billion
in the third quarter from the April-June period, today’s report
showed. The goods and services trade balance recorded a A$4.65
billion deficit in the third quarter compared with a A$2.11
billion shortfall three months earlier.  The current account is the broadest measure of trade
because it includes investment flows as well as goods and
services shipments. A deficit represents money Australia has to
borrow overseas to pay for the goods and services it imports and
to finance investment not covered by local savings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  