-- Australian Home-Building Permits Fall More Than Forecast
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-12-04T00:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/australian-home-building-permits-fall-more-than-forecast.html
Australian home-building  approvals 
declined more than economists forecast in October, led by a
slump in apartment projects. The nation’s currency weakened.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments declined 7.6 percent from September, when they
rose a revised 9.5 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in
Sydney today. The result compares with the median forecast for a
1.6 percent drop in a Bloomberg survey of 22 economists.  The Reserve Bank of  Australia  lowered borrowing costs five
times from November to October to buttress the economy as a
resource investment boom is predicted to peak at a lower level
next year. Governor Glenn Stevens is trying to revive industries
including construction to rebalance economic growth and extend
21 recession-free years.  “Typically, it takes a few quarters for interest rate cuts
to spur building approvals,” Chris Tennent-Brown, an economist
in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , said in a research
report before the release.  Building approvals in October advanced 14.5 percent from a
year earlier, the report showed. That compares with economists’
forecast for a 20.2 percent rise year-over-year.  Approvals to build private houses fell 1.5 percent to 7,451
in October from the previous month, the report showed. Approvals
for apartments and renovations declined 18 percent to 4,817.  The local dollar weakened, buying at $1.0419 at 11:37 a.m.
in Sydney from $1.0430 before the release.  The RBA board is meeting today to decide whether to change
monetary policy, with a decision scheduled to be announced at
2:30 p.m.  Home-loan growth held in October at the slowest annual pace
since at least 1977, a central bank report showed last week.
Wage growth also slowed to the weakest pace in a year in the
third quarter, government data showed last month.  Australian help-wanted notices fell for an eighth straight
month in November, sliding 2.9 percent, an  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  report showed this week. Australian
retail sales also stagnated in October, ending two months of
advances, as consumers spent less on household goods, government
data showed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  