-- Australian Services Industry Index Shows Best Result Since June
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-12-04T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/australian-services-industry-index-shows-best-result-since-june.html
A gauge of  Australia ’s services
industry showed the strongest improvement since June as
retailers recovered before the Christmas trading period.  The performance of services  index  was 47.1 in November
compared with 42.8 in October,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) 
and the Australian Industry Group said in Sydney today. It was
the 10th consecutive reading below 50, the dividing line between
expansion and contraction.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia reduced the benchmark
 interest rate  for the sixth time in 14 months this week as it
seeks to revive demand in industries outside a resource boom
that policy makers say may crest at a lower level than
previously expected. The strength of mining investment has
boosted the local currency, which in turn has hurt tourism,
education and retail industries.  “Continuing weakness in the services sector lends support
to yesterday’s decision to cut interest rates,” Innes Willox,
AIG’s chief executive officer, said in a statement. “While the
sector as a whole remains weak, there are some tentative signs
of encouragement including the lift in retail trade one month
out from Christmas.”  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board lowered the
overnight cash-rate target by a quarter percentage point to 3
percent yesterday.  Today’s report showed the index’s gauge for sales surged to
45.7 from 37.6, and the reading for new orders jumped to 46.3
from 40.9. The employment indicator gained to 48.3 from 44.1,
the report showed.  Selling prices edged up to 45.4 from 44.7, while the wages
measure rose to 54.9 from 54.3, the report showed.  Today’s report, based on a poll of about 200 companies, is
similar to the U.S. non-manufacturing ISM index. The report
measures sales, new orders, deliveries, inventories and
employment for companies such as banks, real-estate agents,
insurers, restaurants, transport firms and retailers to compile
the overall performance of services index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  