-- AutoNation, Penske Buying Outlets as ’13 Tax Changes Loom
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-12-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/autonation-joins-penske-buying-stores-ahead-of-13-rates.html
AutoNation Inc. (AN) , the largest U.S.
retailer of new vehicles, joined competing dealership groups
including  Penske Automotive Group Inc. (PAG)  in snapping up stores
ahead of potential changes to the nation’s tax policy next year.  AutoNation acquired six stores in Texas that generate about
$575 million of annual revenue, the  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-
based company said yesterday in a statement. Penske said in
November and October that it bought dealerships in  Wisconsin  and
California that will contribute about $255 million of revenue.  Acquisitions by public U.S. auto retailers, including
AutoNation and Penske, plunged 55 percent in this year’s first
half to $103 million, the most recent data available from
 Presidio Automotive , an advisory firm. The pace is accelerating
as some dealers opt to sell their outlets ahead of potential
increases to U.S. tax rates next year.  “The fourth quarter has shown a significant uptick in
activity,” Alan Haig, a managing director for San Francisco-
based Presidio, said yesterday by telephone. “That could be due
to dealers wanting to exit in 2012 for tax reasons, to lock in
the current capital gains tax rate.”  Taxes are scheduled to rise and U.S. budget cuts will occur
if President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans don’t
reach an agreement on fiscal matters by Dec. 31.  Spending on acquisitions probably fell further behind last
year’s pace through the third quarter, said Haig, who oversaw
acquisitions for AutoNation before joining Presidio.  AutoNation’s Deals  AutoNation said it purchased  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  namesake brand
stores in Dallas, Richardson and McKinney, Texas; and Audi and
Porsche outlets in Plano, Texas. Chief Executive Officer  Mike Jackson  also bought a Chrysler Group LLC dealership in Houston
that AutoNation said is the automaker’s top seller in Texas and
No. 4 in the country.  “We have quite a number of deals in discussion that we
would very much like to do,” Jackson said in a telephone
interview on Oct. 25 after the company reported quarterly
earnings. “There’s still a gap between sellers and buyers that
has to be bridged.”  Penske acquired two dealerships selling  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
vehicles in Madison, Wisconsin, according to a Nov. 13
statement. The  Bloomfield Hills , Michigan-based retailer also
said in October that it purchased  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
brand stores in Ontario, California.  ‘Fishing Time’  “It’s good fishing time for the public retailers” looking
to acquire dealerships, Roger Penske, CEO of Penske Automotive,
said Nov. 2 on a conference call with analysts. In addition to
tax reasons, discussions about deals are becoming more frequent
because of an improving real estate market and rising industry
sales, Anthony Pordon, a company spokesman, said yesterday.  Lithia Motors Inc. (LAD) , the Medford, Oregon-based dealer group,
said Oct. 26 that it acquired a Toyota store in Missoula,
 Montana , in a deal that it expects to add $45 million in annual
revenue. AutoNation, Penske and Lithia didn’t disclose the terms
of their acquisitions in their respective statements.  AutoNation had forgone  acquisitions  this year after
spending $64.2 million on purchases through last year’s first
nine months, the company said in its Oct. 25 quarterly earnings
statement. Penske said cash used in acquisitions and other
investments, net of cash acquired, was $137.8 million through
Sept. 30, down from and $232.1 million a year earlier, according
to a Nov. 2 regulatory filing.  Presidio, which advises sellers of dealerships, wasn’t
involved in the AutoNation transactions announced yesterday.
Owners of dealerships who are considering sales may be
particularly concerned about an increase in capital gains tax
rates, Haig said.  “We do see some pickup in activity,” he said. Presidio is
“busier now than we have been all year.”  AutoNation climbed 1.9 percent to $39.36 yesterday in  New
York . Penske rose 1.7 percent to $29.70, while Lithia slipped
0.5 percent to $36.47.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  