-- Bad Sex in Fiction Award Won by Huston Novel ‘Infrared’
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-12-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/bad-sex-in-fiction-award-won-by-huston-novel-infrared-.html
Nancy Huston won the  Bad Sex in
Fiction Award , the U.K.’s “most dreaded literary prize,” for a
steamy description of a threesome involving a photographer, her
camera and her lover.  The passage, from Huston’s novel “Infrared,” last night
defeated torrid scenes by writers including 2004 winner Tom Wolfe and Paul Mason, the economics editor of BBC TV’s current-
affairs show, Newsnight.  The prize was collected in the author’s absence by Karen
Duffy, associate publisher of Atlantic Books.  “ Infrared ” tells the story of a painful Florentine family
holiday endured by Rena Greenblatt, a photographer who takes
infrared images of her lovers at intimate moments.  “The Canon is part of my body,” Huston’s heroine
confides. She isn’t coy when it comes to describing her
encounters.  “Kamal and I are totally immersed in flesh, that archaic
kingdom that brings forth tears and terrors, nightmares, babies
and bedazzlements. The word pleasure is far too weak for what
transpires there. So is the word bliss.”  Instead, she tries musical metaphors, bad Italian and
images of “undulating space where the undulating skies make
your non-body undulate.”  Canadian-born Huston is only the third woman to win the
award in its 20-year history. She writes in French, a language
she learned as a schoolgirl, and then translates her own work
into English. She currently lives in Paris where she has won the
 Prix Femina , and where Roland Barthes supervised her master’s
thesis on swearwords.  Lovers’ Bodies  “I hope this prize will incite thousands of British women
to take close-up photos of their lovers’ bodies in all states of
array and disarray,” she wrote in an e-mailed statement.  The award was presented during a ceremony at the  Naval &
Military Club  on  London ’s St. James’s Square by actress Samantha Bond, who was Miss Moneypenny to Pierce Brosnan’s 007, and who
currently plays Lady Rosamund Painswick in the “Downton Abbey”
television series.  “I had no idea from personal experience that bad sex could
be so amusing,” Bond said.  Previously won by the likes of David Guterson,  Norman Mailer  and Jonathan Littell, the Bad Sex in Fiction contest
seeks to shame the author of the year’s “most embarrassing
passages of sexual description in a literary novel.”  No ‘Shades’  Pornographic or expressly erotic works are excluded from
the contest, meaning that the “Fifty Shades of Grey” trilogy
and its many imitators are ineligible.  Auberon Waugh established the prize in 1993 to draw
attention to the “crude, tasteless, and often perfunctory use
of redundant passages of sexual description in contemporary
novels, and to discourage it.”  That noble aim might be said to have backfired. While
Sebastian Faulks refused to accept the award in 1998, others
have reveled in the notoriety it confers.  This year, the Literary Review judges were once again
spoiled for choice. Huston defeated racy competition from an
apparently unchastened Wolfe, who made the shortlist with a
marathon of raunch from “Back to Blood,” in which a Russian
oligarch’s genitalia become “his big generative jockey.”  In “ Rare Earth ,” a tale of corruption in contemporary
 China , Mason couldn’t resist drawing on his day job. A tantric
tryst climaxes with a man panting about cartels and global
markets. “‘The price is inflated because production has been
capped!”’ he cries out.  Romeo Dessert  Nicola Barker made the shortlist for a passage from “The
Yips” that likens a woman to an English dessert while her Romeo
becomes a spoon, a “helpless dollop of warm custard,” and a
bloodhound.  Nicholas Coleridge, the president of Conde Nast
International and distantly related to poet Samuel Taylor
Coleridge, made the cut for an episode in which an English royal
bares his buttocks and hands a bundle of freshly cut birch twigs
to “The Adventuress” of the novel’s title.  The other finalists were “Noughties” by Ben Masters,
“The Divine Comedy” by Craig Raine and Sam Mills’s “The
Quiddity of Will Self,” which reads like X-rated fan fiction to
the man himself.  J.K. Rowling , though eligible for her decidedly adult
novel, “The Casual Vacancy,” was overlooked. There was just
one passage about a vagina, said Alexander Waugh, son of
Auberon. “You’ve got to do a bit better than that.”  Asked why male authors have dominated the award, judge and
 Literary Review  senior editor Jonathan Beckman speculated that
more literary fiction by men is published.  “Men feel more need to swagger when they write about
sex,” he said in a telephone interview, “lest aspersions be
cast on their sexual -- and literary -- potency.”  To contact the reporter on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 