-- Bank of Canada Keeps Its Benchmark Interest Rate at 1% (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-12-04T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/bank-of-canada-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-at-1-text-.html
Following is the text accompanying the
Bank of  Canada ’s decision to leave its benchmark overnight rate
target at 1 percent. The statement was released today in Ottawa.  The Bank of Canada today announced that it is maintaining
its target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. The Bank Rate is
correspondingly 1 1/4 per cent and the deposit rate is 3/4 per
cent.  The global economy has unfolded broadly as the Bank
projected in its October Monetary Policy Report (MPR). The
economic expansion in the United States is progressing at a
gradual pace and is being held back by uncertainty related to the
fiscal cliff. Europe remains in recession. Chinese growth appears
to be stabilizing. Commodity prices have remained at elevated
levels since the October MPR and global inflationary pressures
are subdued in response to persistent excess capacity. Global
financial conditions remain stimulative, though vulnerable to
major shocks from the U.S. or  Europe .  In Canada, economic activity in the third quarter was weak,
owing in part to transitory disruptions in the energy sector.
Although underlying momentum appears slightly softer than
previously anticipated, the pace of economic growth is expected
to pick up through 2013. The expansion is expected to be driven
mainly by growth in consumption and business investment,
reflecting very stimulative domestic financial conditions.
Housing activity is beginning to decline from historically high
levels. While the household debt burden continues to rise, growth
in household credit has slowed. It is too early, however, to
determine whether the moderation in housing activity and credit
growth will be sustained.  Canadian exports are expected to pick
up gradually but continue to be restrained by weak foreign demand
and ongoing competitiveness challenges.  These challenges include
the persistent strength of the Canadian dollar, which is being
influenced by safe haven flows and spillovers from global
monetary policy.  Inflation has evolved broadly in line with the outlook in
the October MPR. Both total and core inflation are expected to
increase and return to 2 per cent over the course of the next 12
months as the economy gradually absorbs the current small degree
of slack, the growth of labour compensation remains moderate and
inflation expectations stay well-anchored.  Reflecting all of these factors, the Bank has decided to
maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. Over
time, some modest withdrawal of monetary policy stimulus will
likely be required, consistent with achieving the 2 per cent
inflation target.  The timing and degree of any such withdrawal
will be weighed carefully against global and domestic
developments, including the evolution of imbalances in the
household sector.  Information note: The next scheduled date for announcing the
overnight rate target is 23 January 2013. A full update of the
Bank’s outlook for the economy and inflation, including risks to
the projection, will be published in the MPR at the same time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  