-- Bank of Montreal Profit Rises 41% on Investment Banking
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-12-04T22:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/bank-of-montreal-profit-rises-41-on-investment-banking.html
Bank of Montreal ,  Canada ’s fourth-
largest lender, said quarterly profit rose 41 percent, topping
analysts’ estimates, on gains from investment banking and
trading.  Net income for the fourth quarter ended Oct. 31 advanced to
C$1.08 billion ($1.09 billion), or C$1.59 a share, from C$768
million, or C$1.11, a year earlier, the Toronto-based lender
said today in a statement. Revenue rose 9.3 percent to C$4.18
billion.  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  joined Royal Bank of Canada in reporting
earnings that were bolstered by  capital markets .  Bank of
Montreal (BMO)  benefited from higher fees from advising on takeovers
and arranging stock sales, and from a surge in trading revenue,
which helped compensate for a slowdown in  consumer lending .  “Capital markets are getting stronger,” Arthur Salzer,
who manages C$225 million at Northland Wealth Management in
Toronto, including Bank of Montreal shares, said in a telephone
interview. “Given the weakness in Canada, it’s probably a
little unexpected to have improvements year over year.”  Adjusted earnings were C$1.65 a share, beating the C$1.43
 estimate  of 16 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News , with the
fastest profit growth in 11 quarters.  Bank of Montreal  rose  0.6 percent to C$59.63 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto.  Bad Loans  The lender set aside C$192 million for bad loans, down 47
percent from a year earlier. The bank pared its workforce by 322
employees from the third quarter, with most of the cuts in
Canada.  Canadian consumer-banking profit was unchanged at C$439
million while U.S. banking profit from its BMO Harris Bank unit
fell 16 percent to C$130 million as net interest margins
narrowed, the lender said.  “Earnings growth in Canada has slowed appreciably and we
expect headwinds to intensify in fiscal 2013,”  Peter Routledge ,
an analyst with National Bank Financial, said in a note.  Bank of Montreal is putting more emphasis on deposit growth
over loan growth and on commercial banking in Canada, as well as
its expanded U.S. operations, in response to a slowdown, Chief
Executive Officer William Downe said in a phone interview.  U.S. Differentiator  “The levers that we have in Canada will allow us to
perform better on a relative basis in the next couple of years
than we have in the last couple of years,” Downe said. “The
differentiator is going to be the U.S. business.”  BMO Capital Markets profit more than doubled to C$293
million on a revenue surge in revenue from  investment banking 
and trading. Underwriting and advisory fees rose 46 percent to
C$111 million. Trading revenue soared to C$354 million from C$3
million a year earlier, when the firm recorded losses from
structured-credit activities and hedging.  Profit at the private-client group, which includes
insurance and mutual funds, jumped 21 percent to C$166 million.  Bank of Montreal had  record profit  of C$4.19 billion, or
C$6.15 a share, for the fiscal year ended Oct. 31, up 35 percent
from C$3.11 billion, or C$4.84, a year earlier.  The lender achieved three of four medium-term goals for the
year, including adjusted earnings-per-share growth, return-on-
equity and capital ratio levels. The bank will meet its target
for operating leverage in 2013 and medium-term objectives will
remain unchanged, Downe said in a conference call with
investors.  Fiscal Cliff  Downe said he expects an agreement by U.S. lawmakers on
taxes and spending will lift business confidence and accelerate
investment and hiring, sparking job growth and stronger  consumer
spending  that will also help Canada.  “Assuming lawmakers do the right thing, and I believe they
will, the  U.S. economy  should strengthen through next year,
pulling Canada’s economy along with it,” he said.  Canadian Western Bank (CWB) , the country’s eighth-largest lender,
missed analysts’ estimates today after reporting fourth-quarter
profit that rose 20 percent to C$43 million, or 55 cents a
share, from C$35.9 million, or 47 cents, a year earlier. The
bank raised its quarterly  dividend  6 percent to 17 cents a
share, according to a statement from the  Edmonton , Alberta-based
firm.  Royal Bank, the nation’s largest lender, said on Nov. 29
that profit rose 22 percent to C$1.91 billion on higher fixed-
income trading, beating analysts’ estimates.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Canada’s second-largest lender, and
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the fifth-biggest, as well
as No. 6-ranked  National Bank of Canada (NA)  report results on Dec.
6. Scotiabank, the No. 3 lender, reports Dec. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  