-- Barclays Deferred Prosecution Ends After Judge’s Scrutiny
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-04T22:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/barclays-deferred-prosecution-ends-after-judge-s-scrutiny.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s deferred prosecution
for dealings with sanctioned countries was ended after a U.S.
judge weighed whether its admissions in a probe of manipulation
of the London interbank offered rate should affect the bank’s
agreement with the government.  U.S. District Judge Emmet Sullivan, in a decision made
public today, granted a request by the U.S. Justice Department
to dismiss the criminal charges pending under the agreement in
 Washington  since 2010. His one-page order offers no explanation.  Sullivan’s ruling comes almost five months after Barclays
and prosecutors said in a court filing that the bank’s June 27
settlement of allegations involving Libor has “no effect” on
the two-year deferred-prosecution agreement requiring the bank
to stay out of criminal trouble.  The judge on June 28 ordered the parties to explain how the
Libor settlement affected the 2010 agreement, which involves a
$298 million settlement with the U.S. over illegal dealings with
such nations as  Sudan  and  Iran .  Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest bank by  assets , was
fined 290 million pounds ($467 million), the largest penalties
ever imposed by regulators in the U.S. and U.K., after admitting
it submitted false London and euro interbank offered rates. Part
of that fine went to the Justice Department, which agreed not to
prosecute the bank for what it called “illegal conduct.”  Mark Lane, a spokesman for London-based Barclays, declined
to comment on the dismissal.  Deal’s Terms  Barclays was required to comply with the terms of agreement
until Aug. 16. Such agreements allow a company to avoid a
criminal conviction as long as the terms of the deal are met.  The accord stated that if the Justice Department determined
that Barclays has committed “any federal crime,” the bank
could be subject to prosecution for facilitating money transfers
that violated U.S. sanctions against Cuba, Libya,  Burma , Sudan
and Iran from about March 1995 through September 2006.  In an Aug. 31 filing seeking dismissal, the Justice
Department said Barclays “fully cooperated” with the U.S. and
complied with all of its obligations under the agreement.  The case is U.S. v. Barclays Bank Plc, 10-cr-00218, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  