-- Barnier Says EU May Broker Deal on Basel III Bank Law Next Week
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-12-04T16:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/barnier-says-eu-may-broker-deal-on-basel-iii-bank-law-next-week.html
Michel Barnier , the European Union’s
financial services chief, said EU lawmakers and governments may
reach an accord next week on how to implement Basel III bank
capital and liquidity rules.  The law, held up amid clashes on banker bonuses, leverage
limits and liquidity ratios, should take effect “as soon as
possible in 2013,” Barnier said in a prepared remarks for a
meeting of finance ministers in Brussels today.  Negotiators at talks on Dec. 11 and Dec. 13 should be given
“enough latitude” to “rapidly reach a compromise solution,”
Barnier said. As part of an agreement, ministers should back
calls from the European Parliament for binding limits on the
size of banker bonuses compared to their fixed pay, he said.  EU governments and members of the assembly have struggled
to agree on how the bloc should apply the international rules,
which were agreed on by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision . The standards more than triple the core capital
that lenders must hold to absorb losses, and were drawn up in
response to the turmoil that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. The so-called Basel III measures are
scheduled to phase in from Jan. 1, 2013, to 2019.  Even with a political deal next week, the EU is destined to
join the U.S. in missing January’s global deadline to implement
Basel III, Barnier’s spokesman said yesterday.  As part of its Basel law, the EU may impose a binding
indebtedness limit, known as a  leverage ratio , on its banks from
2018, Barnier said today. The EU is also planning to introduce
liquidity rules for lenders once work on them has been completed
by the Basel committee.  Barnier warned ministers against seeking too much leeway
to set tougher capital rules for their banks than foreseen in
the draft EU law. This push for flexibility, which has been made
by nations including the U.K. and  Sweden , raises “very serious
legal problems,” he said.  A final deal on the rules will probably give the European
Banking Authority “solid” powers to police which kinds of
securities banks can count toward their core capital, Barnier
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  