-- Batista’s MMX to Sell $644 Million of New Shares for Mine
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-12-04T20:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/batista-s-mmx-to-sell-644-million-of-shares-for-biggest-mine.html
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3) , the
mining company controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , led the
Brazilian Bovespa index after saying it will sell 1.37 billion
reais ($646 million) of new shares, reducing funding concerns
for its flagship Serra Azul iron-ore project.  MMX, based in  Rio de Janeiro ,  gained  6.2 percent to 3.95
reais at the close in  Sao Paulo  today after advancing 5.7
percent yesterday, the biggest two-day increase since July 27.
The stock was the best performer on the Brazilian benchmark
Bovespa  index , which declined 1.1 percent today.  MMX will issue 348.9 million voting shares at 3.92 reais
each in a private placement, the company said in a  statement 
late yesterday. Batista, who controls MMX with a 46.4 percent
stake, agreed to buy all shares not subscribed in the offer, the
company said. Boosting capital may alleviate concerns about the
funding of MMX’s projects, Brasil Plural CCTVM analysts, led by
Renato Antunes, said in a note to clients today.  “The capital increase should put an end to funding
concerns and project execution should now be the main theme to
monitor,” the analysts said. “A more robust cash balance puts
MMX in a better position to negotiate future agreements.”  MMX is spending 4.8 billion reais to expand its Serra Azul
unit in Brazil’s Minas Gerais state, where it expects to produce
as much as 29 million metric tons of iron-ore a year. The stock
 slumped  to the lowest since April 2009 last month as investors
dropped mining stocks amid lower growth in  China , the world’s
biggest consumer of industrial metals.  Batista, 56, last week lost his title as Brazil’s richest
person to  Jorge Paulo Lemann  after shares of his six publicly
traded startup commodity-linked companies tumbled this year,
wiping out almost half his wealth since March. Oil producer  OGX
Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , Batista’s biggest holding, has
declined 69 percent this year amid disappointing output results.  MMX also said yesterday it delayed the start up of its
Sudeste port project in Rio state by six months to the fourth
quarter of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  