-- Bebe Neuwirth Brings Diva Glamor to ‘Golden Age’: Review
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-12-04T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/bebe-neuwirth-brings-diva-glamor-to-golden-age-review.html
Living in the world of Beyonce and
Rihanna makes it hard to conjure up an era when the word “diva”
was reserved for people of such altitudinous vocal talent and
bad manners that only evocations of divinity could do them
justice.  So I was happy to see “Golden Age,” which features two
divas whose fame flickers into our own day: Maria Malibran and
Giulia Grisi.  Terrence McNally’s new play, at the  Manhattan Theatre Club 
in New York, takes place backstage at the 1835 world premiere of
“I Puritani,” a sweetly melodic opera by Vincenzo Bellini set
in the time of Oliver Cromwell.  You may recall that his bowl haircut made him the chief
Roundhead in the ferocious battles against the frivolously
locked Royalists.  In one of many unlikely plot turns, Cromwell pardons
everyone, and Elvira, who has spent the entire opera going mad,
gets her marbles back plus the tenor.  In “Golden Age,” we hear bits of the opera in a wonderful
old recording featuring  Maria Callas  whenever the singers stop
yacking and walk up a tiny staircase to an unseen stage.  Bellini hangs around his piano, worries about his reviews
and rivals, and coughs a lot. “Puritani” will be his last
opera.  That he wrote the role of Elvira for Grisi has made his old
muse Malibran mad and sad.  Radishes, Tomatoes  The two ladies represent different camps of singing that
barely survive into our own homogenized soundscapes but foretell
the wars fought with radishes and tomatoes at La Scala between
the worshippers of Callas and Renata Tebaldi.  Grisi is note perfect; Malibran is wildly emotional. They
hate each other, of course, in a grand sort of way that makes
for good comedy when Malibran (Bebe Neuwirth) suddenly arrives
backstage and Grisi (Dierdre Friel) collapses into a fake faint.  Neuwirth brings glamour, wit and wisdom to the role of a
star who knows her singing days are coming to an end.  She doesn’t appear until an entire act has passed filled
with awkwardly posing singers dropping biographical information
and engaging in stupid banter. Coming from the genius of
“Master Class,” in which Callas drifts from the stage of
Juilliard into the grand memory palaces of her past, McNally’s
backstage conceit here is oddly pedestrian.  The idea that singers would spend a stressful opening night
shouting at each other backstage is unbelievable and
dramatically confining.  Behave Yourselves  Singers don’t carry on the way they do in “Golden Age.”
They’re more likely to vocalize before a performance. Some knit,
throw up or stare crazily, quietly into the mirror. They call
mother. I once met a soprano who encountered God in her dressing
room and stopped singing for years.  (Why on earth didn’t McNally place the first act during a
rehearsal, where the performers are a lot more fun? Rehearsals
bring out the worst in them -- especially when the tenor wears
throat-clogging, offensive cologne.)  We get a sense of what might have been when McNally cuts
loose and has Bellini playing music he will never live to write
and it sounds a lot like Nino Rota and  Richard Wagner .  Lovely Shimmer  Still “Golden Age” takes on a lovely shimmer when
Neuwirth picks up Grisi’s score and intones the words of the mad
Elvira, as Bellini (Lee Pace) and his friend Florimo ( Will
Rogers ) add their voices. McNally takes as fact that Bellini was
bisexual.  Pace is most affecting, especially in his later scenes,
though I wonder if a dying man would speak quite so
emphatically. He touches the heart when he sings in a hoarse
voice an aria he wished he’d written: Donizetti’s “Una furtiva
lagrima.”  The other characters are more obviously sketched by McNally
and directed so by Walter Bobbie (he of the inspired “School
for Lies” with its leitmotiv of flying bread). Yet all work
hard: Ethan Phillips as Luigi Lablache, the bass who never gets
the girl and must wear ugly brown costumes; Eddie Kaye Thomas as
the jealous Rubini, who is rejected by the amusingly bovine
Friel, and Lorenzo Pisoni, who stuffs cucumbers in his pants as
the baritone Tamburini.  F. Murray Abraham makes a crusty late appearance as
Gioacchino Rossini, complaining about his gout. Now there’s an
interesting character worthy of a play all his own. At the
height of his fame, just 37, Rossini retired to spend the next
four decades hosting parties at his house in Paris.  Through Jan. 6, 2013, at  New York  City Center Stage 1, 131
W. 55th St. Information: +1-212-581-1212;
 http://www.manhattantheaterclub.com .
Rating: ***  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include N.Y.  Scene  and Katya Kazakina on
 art .  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at   jburke21@bloomberg.net . 