-- Big Lots CEO to Leave Amid Report of Stock Sale SEC Probe
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-12-05T18:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/big-lots-jumps-after-raising-full-year-earnings-forecast.html
Big Lots Inc. (BIG)  said Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Steven Fishman will retire, amid a report that
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating a
$10 million sale of stock by the executive.  Fishman, 61, will step down, effective when a successor is
named, as he seeks to prioritize time with his family, the
Columbus, Ohio-based discount retailer said yesterday. The Wall
Street Journal  reported  yesterday that the SEC started the
inquiry in March and that the probe is at an early stage, citing
a person familiar with the inquiry.  Fishman, who took over in July 2005, sold the stock on
March 20 at a price of about $45, the Journal said. On April 23,
the company told investors its sales had slowed, and the
following day the stock fell 24 percent to $34.71. Fishman’s
trades were properly made at a time when they were allowed, Big
Lots hasn’t been contacted by the SEC and Fishman’s stepping
down is coincidental to any regulatory interest, the Journal
said, citing the company.  The company understands and complies with the rules on
 stock trading  by individuals, Charles Haubiel, executive vice
president and chief administrative officer, said on a  conference
call  with analysts yesterday, in response to a request for
comment on the Journal’s report.  Big Lots hasn’t received anything from the SEC on Fishman’s
stock sales, Andrew Regrut, a company spokesman, said in a
telephone interview. He declined to answer other questions and
directed inquiries to Haubiel, who didn’t return a call.  Executive Departures  Fishman’s departure follows the appointment of a new chief
financial officer, chief operating officer and chief
merchandising officer in August, amid declining same-store sales
this year.  Big Lots  fell  3.9 percent to $30.06 at 1:34 p.m. in New
York. The shares rose 12 percent yesterday for the largest gain
since Feb. 7, 2011, after an earnings forecast surpassed
analysts’ projections.  Adjusted profit from continuing operations for fiscal 2012
will be as much as $3.05 a share, up from a previous prediction
of as much as $2.95 a share, Big Lots also said in a statement.
Analysts projected $2.80, the average of  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg before the statement.  Sales at U.S. stores open at least 15 months fell 4.6
percent in the quarter ended Oct. 27, the company said. Big Lots
reported a third-quarter loss of $6 million, or 10 cents a
share, from continuing operations, compared with a profit of
$4.2 million, or 6 cents, a year ago.  The company operated more than 1,482 U.S. stores at the end
of the period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  