-- Billionaire Green Said to Be in Talks to Sell 25% of Topshop
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-12-04T23:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/billionaire-green-said-to-be-in-talks-to-sell-25-of-topshop.html
Philip Green , the billionaire owner
of the Arcadia fashion business, is in advanced talks to sell a
25 percent stake in the Topshop and Topman chains to Leonard
Green & Partners LP, said a person familiar with the matter.  The deal is scheduled to be announced Dec. 6, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the negotiations are
private. The sale probably will value the two chains at almost 1
billion pounds ($1.6 billion),  Sky News  reported earlier.  The deal would be Green’s first major transaction since his
purchase of the Etam chain in the U.K. in 2005. The Monaco-based
businessman, who unsuccessfully tried to buy  Marks & Spencer
Group Plc (MKS)  in 2004, said last month that he plans to pursue
expansion internationally and online for Arcadia, which he
acquired in 2002 for about 850 million pounds.  Arcadia’s other brands include Dorothy Perkins, Miss
Selfridge, Burton and Evans, its website shows. The company had
more than 615 franchised outlets in 39 countries as of the end
of August, according to its earnings statement for its latest
fiscal year.  Leonard Green , a Los Angeles-based private-equity firm,
counts clothing chain J. Crew Group Inc. and Jo-Ann Stores Inc.
among its other retail investments.  London-based Topshop, which sells mid-priced trendy styles,
is  known  for showcasing talented young designers, including the
late  Alexander McQueen , and has a quirky British sensibility.
For this winter season, the retailer previewed punk-inspired
checked looks such as a 30 pounds pinafore that it recommended
pairing with chunky black lace-ups. It also pushed retro 1960s
styles, including tweed and boucle pieces it suggested wearing
with beehive hairdos and slick black eyeliner.  “Fashion-Obsessed”  It reached a deal earlier this year to sell clothes from
its men’s and women’s stores through  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) , the
Seattle-based chain of more than 100 department stores, starting
in 14 stores and online this past September.  An agile operator capable of continually turning out fresh
fashions -- as many as 200 new styles appear at the Oxford
Circus flagship in  London  each week -- Topshop appeals “to
youthful, fashion-obsessed customers,” Pete Nordstrom,
president of merchandising at Nordstrom, said in July.  The partnership with Nordstrom was a low-risk, inexpensive
way for Topshop to expand its presence in the U.S., where it has
perhaps been best known for a five-year-old line of Kate Moss-
designed clothes once sold at Barneys  New York .  Topshop also planned to have as many as 20 U.S. stores of
its own in the next three years, part of its global expansion,
which is designed to reduce Arcadia’s reliance on slowing growth
back home in Britain, Green, 60, said in July.  Founded in 1964, Topshop as of July operated 319 stores in
the U.K., and 137 international franchises in 37 countries,
selling a range of apparel from jeans to evening wear to shoes,
accessories, jewelry and make-up. It owns U.S. flagship stores
in New York, Chicago, Las Vegas and starting next year, in  Los
Angeles . Topman had 230 stores in the U.K.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  