-- Billionaire Lim to Build Race Track City Bordering Singapore
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-12-04T09:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/billionaire-lim-to-build-race-track-city-bordering-singapore-1-.html
Billionaire Peter Lim said he plans
to build a motorsports-themed development, including a Formula
One-compliant racing test track, in Malaysia’s southern-most
state bordering  Singapore .  Lim’s FASTrack Autosports Pte will take a 70 percent stake
in the joint venture valued at more than 3.5 billion ringgit
($1.2 billion) in the Iskandar development region of Johor state,
with Malaysian developer  UEM Land Holdings Bhd. (ULHB)  holding the rest,
according to a joint statement today. The project, known as
Motorsports City, will cover 270 acres and include showrooms,
garages and entertainment outlets, they said.  Singapore, which hosts F1 night races in the city’s
downtown, agreed in September to continue the annual Grand Prix
for another five years. Neighbor Malaysia has a permanent race
track at Sepang outside Kuala Lumpur for its annual F1 race,
which it opens up to amateur drivers during the rest of the year.
That’s a four-hour drive from Singapore.  “The region is fast becoming a hub for motor sports,” Lim
said in the statement today. The Singaporean, who made his
fortune through holdings in palm oil producers and a chain of
Manchester United cafes in Asia, is also a shareholder of
McLaren Automotive Ltd., the maker of vehicles for the most
successful F1 team after Ferrari SpA.  The 4.5 kilometer (2.8 mile) Iskandar test track will be
designed by an F1 track designer, according to the statement,
which didn’t identify the person. A 1.5 kilometer race-certified
go-kart track is also proposed, Lim and UEM Land said.  Singapore Link  The tracks would be a five-minute drive from Tuas Second
Link, one of two border crossings between  Malaysia  and Singapore.
Motorsports City will offer race-track driving lessons, storage
for car collections and act as a spare-parts hub, according to
Barry Kan, who will become FASTrack Autosports’ chief executive
officer in January.  “Test driving a car will be ideal,” said Kan in a
separate e-mailed statement. “Drivers will be able to go from
paddock to the race track, and push handling and acceleration to
the limit.”  Kuala Lumpur-based UEM Land is overseeing the development
of Nusajaya, one of five zones in Iskandar. It is part of UEM
Group Bhd., a unit of Malaysia’s state investment company
Khazanah Nasional Bhd.  UEM Land fell 2.4 percent to 2.08 ringgit at the close in
Kuala Lumpur. The stock has fallen 14 percent this year,
compared with a 5 percent gain in the benchmark FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index.  The Malaysian developer separately announced plans today
for a China-focused trade and exhibition mall covering 32 acres
in Nusajaya. Chinamall Holdings Pte will be UEM Land’s partner
in the 562-million-ringgit project, the first phase of a
proposed Asian Trade Centre development, UEM Land said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc in Hong Kong at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  