-- Boeing Says Aircraft Financing Will Reach $104 Billion Record
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-12-04T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/boeing-says-aircraft-financing-will-reach-104-billion-record.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  said airlines will make
more use of  capital markets  to buy aircraft as demand for
financing will exceed $100 billion next year for the first time
even as traditional funding sources decline.  Delivery financing will rise to $104 billion in 2013 from
$95 billion this year, Kostya Zolotusky, managing director at
Boeing Capital Markets, the Chicago-based  planemaker ’s finance
arm, said in an interview. The figure will rise to $132 billion
in 2017, he said.  Sources of aircraft financing are changing as  Europe ’s debt
crisis crimps lending and export credit costs will rise under
international rules that take effect next year. Capital markets,
traditionally used by U.S. airlines, have become more important
for leasing companies and foreign carriers this year. A bond
deal to finance Airbus SAS A380s used by the Emirates airline
has opened the door to more such arrangements, Zolotusky said.  “We will see this growth trend continue,” in part owing
to the so-called Cape Town agreement that makes it easier to
repossess aircraft across borders if a carrier defaults on
payments, he said. “We feel there will be adequate liquidity,
so we are focused on ensuring we are able to manage these big
shifts of where that liquidity originates without disruption.”  ‘Backstop Financing’  Smaller airlines must learn how to deal with credit
agencies and investment banks to access new sources of capital,
Zolotusky said. “It is a big organizational and process shift
for our customers.”  Boeing expects capital markets to finance 15 percent of
aircraft deliveries next year, up from 6 percent in 2012. That
will help fill a gap as financing from  export credit agencies 
may fall to 23 percent of deliveries from 30 percent this year,
Zolotusky said.  Those government institutions were critical in supporting
deliveries in 2008 and 2009 at the height of the global
financial crisis.  Airbus-parent  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  sees
a “significant increase” in export credit financing costs,
Harald Wilhelm, the company’s chief financial officer, said in a
presentation to investors in London yesterday. Nevertheless,
“appetite remains” for that source of financing, he said.  Boeing, Airbus and other aircraft makers may also have to
step up their own funding for customers.  “The scope of changes, along with a sentiment of
uncertainty, will pressure manufacturers to provide backstop
financing for future deliveries,” Boeing said in a report
looking at the financing market from 2013 to 2017.  Patterns of lending by banks are also changing. Chinese
banks are becoming more important, particularly since the
country’s government loosened monetary policy, and Japanese
institutions are expanding their activity, Zolotusky said.  One issue for banks is that they need access to dollars to
help fund aircraft purchases. While dollar liquidity will affect
lending costs, it will not become a major obstacle, Zolotusky
predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  