-- BofA’s Moynihan Says Lender Will Pass Next Stress Test
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-12-04T20:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/bofa-s-moynihan-says-lender-will-pass-next-stress-test.html
Bank of America Corp.  Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said the firm has plenty of capital
and he’s confident it will pass the next U.S. stress tests.  “The question will be what to ask for and when, because
we’re not going to fail this,” Moynihan said today at a New
York  investor conference  sponsored by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
“It’s pretty clear we’ve got the capital we need,” he said.  Moynihan, 53, is renewing efforts to win approval for
raising the dividend or repurchasing shares after the  Federal
Reserve  blocked an earlier request. He’s trimming staff and
 operations  to reduce costs at the  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based company and has sold more than $60 billion in assets since
he took over in 2010 to streamline the firm and build capital.  The CEO’s comments came after a question about whether the
bank would resubmit a capital plan if its initial version didn’t
pass muster. Moynihan said there was “no upside” to having to
resubmit and “you don’t even want to have that publicly
disclosed.”  While the timing of an increased payout isn’t certain,
“let’s not get wound up about a quarter,” he said. “All the
excess capital is yours. It is sitting on the balance sheet for
you, as a shareholder.”  The Fed periodically subjects banks to stress tests
designed to show whether they can handle a set of theoretical
economic setbacks and shocks. The results can determine whether
a firm is allowed to increase payouts to investors.  Capital Standards  Global lenders are under pressure to build their reserves
for losses and avoid a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis that
almost destroyed the financial system. Using the new Basel III
international standards, Bank of America said in October that it
had an estimated common equity ratio of 8.97 percent, above the
8.5 percent it would need under the latest regulatory guidance.  That’s a percentage point less than rivals including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, and
Citigroup Inc., ranked third. Bank of America is second-largest.  Bank of America reduced staff in the unit dealing with
troubled loans for the first time in 14 quarters and is cutting
again in the current period, Moynihan said.  Lower mortgage costs are helping to curb expenses and the
bank will settle loan-repurchase disputes with parties who are
reasonable, he said.  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac  and other buyers of
mortgages have demanded refunds, claiming home loans were based
upon flawed data about the properties and borrowers. The claims,
along with costs tied to faulty foreclosures, have cost the bank
more than $40 billion.  Talks Continue  “Assume there’s no one more interested in putting this
chapter of the company behind them than me,” Moynihan said of
the putback claims. “These are difficult negotiations;
hopefully we can get them done.”  Moynihan defended his firm’s business model of catering to
retail customers, corporations and institutional investors,
saying that the “universal banking model is the model that
wins.”  Bank of America gained 76 percent this year through
yesterday in New York trading, the best showing in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average . The stock was little changed at $9.81 as of
2:12 p.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  