-- Bovespa Falls as Retailers Slide on Weaker-Than-Forecast Output
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-12-04T20:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/bovespa-falls-as-retailers-slide-on-weaker-than-forecast-output.html
The Bovespa index retreated from a
three-week high as a report showing industrial production growth
trailed analysts’ estimates added to concern that Brazil’s
economic recovery is sputtering.  Online retailer  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  and its parent,
 Lojas Americanas SA (LAME4) , led declines among companies that sell in
the domestic market.  Cia. de Transmissao de Energia Eletrica
Paulista  rose the most in almost a month after agreeing to renew
licenses under rules requiring it to cut power rates.  The Bovespa index slid 1.1 percent to 57,563.23 at the
close of trading in Sao Paulo after ending yesterday’s session
at the highest level since Nov. 7. Brazil’s industrial
production rose 0.9 percent in October from a month earlier, the
national statistics agency reported today. The median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase of 1.2
percent.  “Data regarding the manufacturing sector in Brazil show
that the economy is not picking up as expected,” Luiz Roberto
Marinho, an analyst at brokerage Renascenca, said by phone from
Sao Paulo.  B2W slumped 5.1 percent to 15.27 reais. Lojas Americanas
fell 3.9 percent to 18.13 reais.  Cteep, as Transmissao Paulista is also known, jumped 5.2
percent to 31.98 reais after the stock was raised to the
equivalent of buy at Banco Itau BBA SA as analysts Marcos Severine and Mariana Coelho said the company will benefit from
the conditions offered by the government.  ‘Not Over’  “After some companies said they agree to the rules
proposed by the government, some investors may be feeling more
confident in taking advantage of the recent plunge we saw in
most stocks in the industry,” Luis Gustavo Pereira, an analyst
at Futura Corretora in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview.
“Volatility should remain high. This issue is not over yet.”  Under terms of a government plan published Nov. 1,
utilities whose concessions are set to expire from 2015 through
2017 will reduce electricity rates as President Dilma Rousseff
tries to make local factories more competitive and spur growth.  The government offered additional compensation on Nov. 30
of 9.87 billion reais to utilities that accept Rousseff’s plan
to renew licenses with lower rates, on top of 20 billion reais
announced Nov. 1.  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA declined 1.9 percent to
9.45 reais today after earlier jumping as much as 8.9 percent.  Marfrig Alimentos SA,  Brazil ’s second-biggest foodmaker,
plunged 16 percent to 9.05 reais, the steepest drop in four
months, before a planned sale of as many as 141.8 million new
shares.  Tax Exemption  The real appreciated 0.2 percent to 2.1198 per dollar a day
after the central bank intervened to stem the currency’s
decline. Brazil exempted exporters today from a 6 percent tax on
some loans after the real tumbled to a three-year low last week
and a report showed the economy grew in the third quarter at
half the pace expected by economists.  The Bovespa has climbed 9.7 percent from this year’s low on
June 5 as stimulus from central banks around the world and
Brazil’s record-low borrowing costs boosted demand for equities.
The index trades at 10.6 times analysts’ earnings estimates for
the next four quarters, compared with a ratio of 10.8 for MSCI
Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 7.02 billion reais in stocks in Sao
Paulo today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.17 billion reais this year
through Aug. 7, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  