-- Brazil May Face Soybean Export Delays in the Next Few Months
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-12-04T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/brazil-may-face-soybean-export-delays-in-the-next-few-months.html
Brazil , set to overtake the U.S. as
the world’s largest soybean exporter, may face shipping delays
as a record crop is harvested, Oil World said.  Trucking shortages are likely to develop in Brazil during
April and May as soybean shipments compete with the  sugarcane 
harvest, the Hamburg-based researcher said today in an e-mailed
report. Exportable soybean supplies from the U.S. probably will
be depleted by then, providing little relief to importers from a
South American backlog, it said.  “More and more observers question whether the expected
record South American soybean crops can be moved in a timely
manner in 2013, which we strongly doubt,” Oil World said.
“Given the remoteness of the central and northern producing
areas, trucks are essential for bringing soybeans to the ports.
Long lineups of ships waiting for soybeans will therefore be the
rule early next year, delaying the arrival in the importing
countries.”  Brazil may  harvest  a record 81 million metric tons of
soybeans this season, according to Oil World, in line with the
U.S. Department of Agriculture’s forecast. Dry conditions in
southern growing areas should be “closely watched,” while wet
weather in  Argentina  is increasing the risk that its planting
targets may not be met, according to the report.  Soybean futures on the Chicago Board of Trade, the global
benchmark, have climbed 21 percent this year by yesterday,
touching a record $17.89 a bushel on Sept. 4, after drought cut
U.S. yields following dry weather in  South America  last year.  Soybean Diversions  The European Union, the world’s second-largest soybean
importer, is shifting purchases toward  North America  and  Ukraine 
after supplies tightened in South America, Oil World said. In
September and October, the 27-country bloc bought 1.148 million
tons from Ukraine,  Canada  and the U.S., nearly twice the amount
as the same time last year, while purchases from Argentina,
Brazil,  Paraguay  and Uruguay slid 17 percent to 785,000 tons,
according to Oil World.  “Soybean processors in the EU-27 have recently stepped up
soybean purchases from the U.S., Ukraine and Canada to
compensate the shortage of South American soybean supplies,”
Oil World said. “EU soybean importers are facing stiff
competition from other importers, primarily  China ,” the world’s
biggest buyer.  Ukraine’s soybean exports may rise to a record 1.5 million
metric tons in the 2012-13 season that began Aug. 1, up from
1.338 million tons a year earlier, Oil World said. The forecast
is below the USDA’s estimate at 1.8 million tons. Oil World pegs
Ukraine’s crop at an all-time high of 2.4 million tons, in line
with USDA’s projection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  