-- McAfee Founder Says in a ‘Tight Spot’ on the Run
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-12-04T00:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/mcafee-founder-says-in-a-tight-spot-on-the-run.html
John McAfee, wanted for questioning
in the murder investigation of a U.S. citizen in  Belize , said
today there has been a “slight glitch” in his run from
Belize’s police.  McAfee, the founder of the popular anti-virus software
maker, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bloomberg West” that he isn’t in Belize anymore and has been
moving frequently. He excused himself twice during the telephone
interview to talk to someone else and ended the call after two
minutes.  “There was a slight glitch in our proceedings,” he said.
“We are in a tight spot, that’s all I can tell you.”  McAfee didn’t answer a question about whether he was
referring to  reports  that a picture posted online appeared to
reveal his whereabouts as  Guatemala . He said he was being sought
over a political vendetta.  McAfee has turned his run from authorities over the past
month into a media spectacle, sending updates to Wired magazine,
allowing two reporters from Vice magazine to accompany him, and
posting missives to his own  website . He has discussed eluding
authorities by burying himself in sand with a cardboard box and
changing his appearance.  McAfee’s home on the island of Ambergris Caye was searched
Nov. 11 after the murder of a neighbor, Gregory Faull, a 52-
year-old contractor and Florida native. Authorities have said
they want to question McAfee about what he knows about Faull.  McAfee, a 67-year-old yoga enthusiast, relocated to Belize
in 2008 after his $100 million fortune was reduced to $4 million
after a series of failed investments in property, real estate
and bonds at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to a 2009
article in the  New York  Times.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  agreed to buy McAfee
Inc. for $7.68 billion, at the time its largest acquisition, in
2010.  McAfee spokeswoman Tracy Ross said Nov. 12 that the company
doesn’t comment on former employees and that he “retired from
McAfee in 1994, and has not had any affiliation with the company
since then.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  