-- California Ban on Sexual-Orientation Change Therapy Upheld
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-12-04T21:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/california-ban-on-sexual-orientation-change-therapy-is-upheld.html
A  California  law prohibiting mental
health providers from attempting to change the sexual
orientation of patients under 18 years of age was upheld by a
federal judge a day after another judge temporarily blocked the
measure for three therapists in a separate case.  U.S. District Judge Kimberly Mueller in  Sacramento ,
California, ruling today in a lawsuit brought by therapists and
minors who support the law, said it doesn’t preclude providers
from recommending or discussing “sexual orientation change
efforts,” or SOCE, therapy with patients and the treatment
itself isn’t speech that’s protected under the First Amendment.  “The court finds there is no fundamental or privacy right
to choose a specific mental health treatment the state has
deemed harmful to minors,” Mueller said in her written ruling.
“Parents can still seek SOCE or its equivalent through
religious institutions or other unlicensed providers.”  Under the law, any attempt by a mental health provider to
subject a patient under 18 to SOCE will be considered
“unprofessional conduct” and will be disciplined by the
licensing authorities. California Governor  Jerry Brown  signed
the law Sept. 30 and it is scheduled to take effect Jan. 1.  Yesterday, U.S. District Judge William B. Shubb in
Sacramento ruled that a family therapist, psychiatrist and
aspiring therapist who sued to block the law are “likely to
succeed” on their claims that it violates constitutionally
protected free speech rights. Shubb’s ruling bars the state from
enforcing the measure against those three people until their
lawsuit is resolved.  ‘Sexual Attractions’  Both lawsuits include claims that the law illegally thwarts
therapists’ efforts to eliminate “unwanted same-sex sexual
attractions,” according to the filings. The plaintiffs said in
their complaints that the law violates free speech, freedom of
religion and other rights guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution.  Shubb wrote in his ruling that the “limited scope” of his
preliminary injunction was warranted and weighed in favor of the
public’s interest given the possible free speech violations the
law may impose.  “The public has an interest in the protection and mental
well-being of minors, and the court does not take lightly the
possible harm sexual orientation change efforts may cause
minors, especially when forced on minors who did not choose to
undergo” such counseling, Shubb wrote.  Matt Staver, an attorney for Liberty Counsel representing
the plaintiffs affected by today’s ruling, said he will
immediately appeal the decision, which will cause “significant
and irreparable harm” to counselors, parents and minors seeking
the therapy.  ‘Greatly Benefiting’  The patients “have not and do not want to act on their
same sex attraction and they are greatly benefiting from this
counseling,” Staver said in a recording on Liberty Counsel’s
website responding to the ruling. The decision would require
therapists to present only one viewpoint of same-sex
attractions, which is a violation of free speech rights, he
said.  Lynda Gledhill, a spokeswoman for California Attorney
General  Kamala Harris , said the law will take effect Jan. 1
except for the three therapists in the case before Shubb.  Regarding today’s ruling, Harris said in an e-mail: “It’s
more a form of punishment than a bona fide therapy. My office
will continue to protect California minors by vigorously
defending this law.”  The case before Shubb was filed Oct. 1 by Donald Welch, a
family therapist and member of the Skyline Church in  San Diego .
Another case was filed Oct. 4 by two sets of parents of
teenagers who have received SOCE counseling from Joseph
Nicolosi, a psychologist in Encino, California. Nicolosi is also
a plaintiff in that case.  The cases are Pickup v. Brown, 12-cv-2497, and Welch v.
Brown, 12-cv-02484 U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  