-- California Law Barring Sexual Orientation Therapy Blocked
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-12-04T05:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/california-law-barring-sexual-orientation-therapy-blocked.html
A  California  law prohibiting mental
health providers from attempting to change the sexual
orientation of patients under the age of 18 was temporarily
blocked by a federal judge until a lawsuit opposing it is
resolved.  U.S. District Judge William B. Shubb in  Sacramento 
yesterday ruled that the family therapist, psychiatrist and
aspiring therapist who filed the case are “likely to succeed”
on their claims that the law violates constitutionally protected
free speech rights. California Governor  Jerry Brown  signed the
law Sept. 30 and it is scheduled to take effect Jan. 1.  Yesterday’s ruling, which applies only to those three
people, came in one of two lawsuits challenging the law,
claiming it illegally thwarts therapists’ efforts to eliminate
“unwanted same-sex sexual attractions” through techniques
including “sexual orientation change efforts,” according to
the filings. The plaintiffs said in their complaints that the
law violates free speech, freedom of religion and other rights
guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution.  Shubb wrote in his ruling that the “limited scope” of his
preliminary injunction was warranted and weighed in favor of the
public’s interest given the possible free speech violations the
law may impose. He ruled the law can’t be enforced against the
therapists who filed the case pending “final resolution” of
it.  “The public has an interest in the protection and mental
well-being of minors, and the court does not take lightly the
possible harm sexual orientation change efforts may cause
minors, especially when forced on minors who did not choose to
undergo” such counseling, Shubb wrote.  ‘Public’s Interest’  Given the limited duration of his order, the court has “no
difficulty in concluding that protecting an individual’s First
Amendment rights outweighs the public’s interest in rushing to
enforce an unprecedented law,” the judge wrote.  Matthew McReynolds, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, argued
yesterday at a hearing that the law violates religious freedom,
privacy and freedom of speech, and that it was too vaguely
worded.  “Because the statute is so oddly drawn, because the
statute sweeps in so many different kinds of potential speech,
and because the statute identifies so many different things as
being part of its compelling interest, we honestly don’t know
what is going to change on Jan. 1 if the statute is applied,”
he told the judge.  Religious Freedoms  Alexandra Gordan, a lawyer representing the state, argued
that the law doesn’t violate religious freedoms because it only
applies to people acting in their capacity as licensed medical
professionals.  Lynda Gledhill, a spokeswoman for California Attorney
General  Kamala Harris , said the state is reviewing the decision
and declined to comment further.  The case before Shubb was filed Oct. 1 by Donald Welch, a
family therapist and member of the Skyline Church in  San Diego .
Another case was filed Oct. 4 by two sets of parents of
teenagers who have received “sexual orientation change
efforts” counseling from Joseph Nicolosi, a psychologist in
Encino, California. Nicolosi is also a plaintiff in that case.  Under the law, any attempt by a mental health provider to
subject a patient under 18 years old to a sexual orientation
change effort will be considered “unprofessional conduct” and
will be disciplined by the licensing authorities.  The cases are Pickup v. Brown, 12-cv-2497, and Welch v.
Brown, 12-cv-02484 U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  