-- Cameron Tells Newspaper Editors to Make Self-Regulation Work
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-12-04T13:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/cameron-meeting-newspaper-editors-to-urge-better-self-regulation.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  met
newspaper editors to urge them to set up a system of self-
regulation, as opponents of proposals from a media-ethics panel
begin to shift position.  During a House of Commons debate late yesterday on judge
Brian Leveson’s proposal for a new independent regulator, David Blunkett, a Labour lawmaker and adviser to  News Corp. (NWSA)  who last
week organized a letter opposing any state intervention, said he
was now “moving the other way.”  “Those who’ve taken principled sides are so close together
now, if they can take a step back, we’ll find a way forward,”
Blunkett said, arguing that Leveson’s proposals were “not so
much underpinning as oversight.” He urged opponents and
supporters of the plans to engage with each other. “It’s going
to take people sitting down in the next few weeks and agreeing
to bury the hatchet.”  Cameron on Nov. 29 said he wasn’t prepared to “cross the
Rubicon” and accept Leveson’s recommendation that any new
regulator set up by the press would need to be recognized in
law. Today he told editors gathered in his Downing Street office
in London that they need to design a regulator sufficiently
independent to dampen calls for full implementation of the
Leveson report.  “I’ve told them that they have to produce a tough,
independent regulatory system, rapidly,” Cameron told the  BBC 
after the meeting. “They know, because I’ve told them, that the
clock is ticking for this to be sorted out.”  The Godfather  Daily Telegraph editor Tony Gallagher compared those
present to mafia bosses. “It felt like the summoning of the
Five Families in The Godfather,” he said on his Twitter Inc.
feed.  The prime minister is on the other side of the argument
from the opposition  Labour Party , his Liberal Democrat coalition
partners and some of his own Conservative lawmakers. In his
response to Leveson, he left himself room to move backwards, not
ruling out changing the law.  Spectator magazine editor Fraser Nelson, who last
week said he’d go to prison rather than sign up to any form of
regulation backed by law, signalled a deal could be reached.
“Distance between Leveson’s proposed regulation and what press
is prepared to sign up to v small,” he said on Twitter.
“Statute should not be needed to close gap.”  ‘Entirely Sensible’  One Conservative opponent of statutory regulation who said
yesterday he found Leveson’s proposals acceptable was  John Whittingdale , chairman of Parliament’s Culture Committee. While
he signed Blunkett’s letter last week, he said last night that
the new body “could have some kind of statutory support.” He
said it could be modeled on Ireland’s Press Council. That is
recognized in law, and offers members some protection from libel
actions. “That seems to me entirely sensible,” Whittingdale
said.  Leveson on Nov. 29 proposed a watchdog with the power to
issue fines of as much as 1 million pounds ($1.6 million) for
serious infractions. Though the judge didn’t propose forcing
news organizations to join the regulator -- a step publishers
and some lawmakers said this week would violate press freedom --
he did say legislation would be needed to underpin the watchdog
and give it formal recognition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  