-- Carney to Keep Tightening Bias as Consumers Lead Recovery
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-12-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/carney-to-keep-tightening-bias-as-consumers-lead-recovery.html
Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
will probably repeat today that higher  interest rates  may become
necessary “over time” as heavily-indebted consumers lead the
country’s meager growth.  The  benchmark rate  on overnight loans between commercial
banks will remain at 1 percent, the 18th straight time since
September 2010 that policy makers have left borrowing costs
unchanged, according to all 26 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News . The decision will be announced at 9 a.m. in Ottawa.  While economists and investors say they’re certain about
the decision, they’ll look for changes in the wording of the
accompanying statement. Canada’s dollar rose after the bank’s
Oct. 23 announcement, when policy makers altered language to say
tighter policy “will likely be required,” rather than “may
become appropriate,” and fell the next day when Carney told
reporters the need for higher rates was “less imminent.”  “In this environment there’s something to be said for
keeping the status quo” in the bank’s language, said Derek Burleton, Toronto-Dominion Bank’s deputy chief economist. “Why
introduce another shift in gears unless there is a real need?”  Carney, who last week said he will leave Canada’s central
bank in June to become  Bank of England  Governor, probably won’t
see enough growth to raise rates before he departs, according to
a Bloomberg economist survey.  Today’s announcement comes after  Statistics Canada  reported
last week that the  economic expansion  slowed to a 0.6 percent
pace in the third quarter. Consumers, who saw their level of
debt as a share of income rise to a record this year, led the
expansion, and Carney has said that  household debt  represents
the biggest domestic threat to the Canadian economy.  Trailed Forecast  While the growth pace trailed the central bank’s 1 percent
forecast, policy makers have already said their “next move will
be higher, even if it’s over the next couple of years, and I
don’t think they need to change that,” said  Avery Shenfeld ,
chief economist at CIBC World Markets in Toronto.  “The statement will acknowledge the sluggish pace of
growth,” he said.  At the same time, Carney wants to prevent investors from
starting to bet on interest rate cuts because Canada’s recovery
is advanced compared with other Group of Seven nations,
economists said.  The bank’s inclination to raise rates “is going to stay
there for a while,” said  Michael Gregory , senior economist at
Bank of Montreal in Toronto. “Canada’s situation is unique,”
he said, because “we have very little slack in the economy.”  Other central banks have added stimulus this year to boost
growth, including asset purchases by the U.S. Federal Reserve
and the  European Central Bank .  Biggest Threats  The biggest external threats to the world’s 11th largest
economy are Europe’s debt crisis and the U.S. fiscal cliff --
the more than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts
that will begin in January unless Congress acts.  Carney told lawmakers Oct. 31 that global business
investment has been curbed by confusion over what policy makers
are doing to boost global growth. “There is a relatively high
degree of uncertainty about the stance of economic policy across
many major jurisdictions,” he said.  Business investment and exports both fell in the third
quarter at the fastest pace since the last recession in
mid-2009, Statistics Canada said Nov. 30.  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  cut its 2013  capital spending  by 25
percent over 2012 levels to $3 billion on Oct. 30 as lower
natural gas prices reduced  cash flow  for the Calgary-based
producer. Suncor Energy Inc. will delay the construction of its
Fort Hills oil sands project in northern Alberta and is
evaluating projected costs on its planned Voyageur bitumen
upgrader, which is part of a venture with France’s Total SA,
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Williams  said Nov. 1.  Little Inflation  Carney’s main policy goal is keeping inflation in the
middle of a 1 percent to 3 percent band, and there’s little risk
of prices accelerating now, said Shenfeld of CIBC. The  consumer
price index   advanced  1.2 percent in October from a year earlier,
the same pace as the prior two months, Statistics Canada said
Nov. 23.  “Carney could start working on Bank of England policy at
this point because it doesn’t look like he will have anything to
do at the Bank of Canada in his remaining months,” Shenfeld
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  