-- Carney Keeps Canada’s Higher-Rate Bias on Faster 2013
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-12-04T14:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/carney-keeps-canada-s-higher-rate-bias-on-faster-2013-growth.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
kept his bias to raise  interest rates , saying economic growth
will accelerate next year after temporary disruptions in energy
output and weak global demand curbed the expansion.  The  benchmark rate  on overnight loans between commercial
banks remained 1 percent, where it’s been for more than two
years, and policy makers said a “small degree of slack” in the
economy will gradually disappear, bringing inflation to the 2
percent target over the next 12 months. Today’s decision was
expected by all 26 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .  “Over time, some modest withdrawal of monetary policy
stimulus will likely be required, consistent with achieving the
2 percent inflation target,” policy makers led by Carney, 47,
said in a statement from Ottawa.  The central bank is relying on consumption and business
investment to lead the world’s 11th largest economy over the
next two years while exports remain in what policy makers have
called the slowest recovery since World War II. Companies such
as Cadillac Fairview Corp. are spending more to tap into
consumer demand while energy producers are delaying projects.  The statement shows policy makers won’t raise rates “for a
long time,” said  Derek Holt , Scotiabank’s vice-president of
economics in Toronto, adding “they don’t want markets thinking
that they are returning to rate cuts.”  The Canadian dollar rose 0.2 percent to 99.27 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 9:26 a.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0074. Five-year government bond yields fell 1 basis point to
1.27 percent.  Insufficient Growth  Carney, who last week said he will leave Canada’s central
bank in June to become Bank of England Governor, probably won’t
see enough growth to raise rates before he departs, according to
a Bloomberg economist survey.  Today’s announcement comes after Statistics Canada reported
last week the  economic expansion  slowed to a 0.6 percent pace in
the third quarter. Business investment and exports both fell at
the fastest rate since the last recession in mid-2009,
 Statistics Canada  said Nov. 30.  “Economic activity in the third quarter was weak, owing in
part to transitory disruptions in the energy sector,” the
central bank said today. “Although underlying momentum appears
slightly softer than previously anticipated, the pace of
economic growth is expected to pick up through 2013.”  Consumers, who saw their level of debt as a share of income
rise to a record this year, led the July-September expansion,
and the central bank said today it’s too soon to know if recent
signs of moderation in housing and borrowing will last.  Canada Alone  The Bank of Canada remains alone among Group of Seven
central banks in showing a bias to increase borrowing costs.
Other central banks have added stimulus this year to boost
growth, including asset purchases by the U.S. Federal Reserve
and the  European Central Bank .  Exports will be restrained by a Canadian dollar that’s been
boosted by “safe haven flows and spillovers from global
monetary policy,” the Bank of Canada said today.  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  cut its 2013  capital spending  by 25
percent over 2012 levels to $3 billion on Oct. 30 as lower
natural gas prices reduced  cash flow  for the Calgary-based
producer.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  will delay the construction of its
Fort Hills oil sands project in northern Alberta and is
evaluating projected costs on its planned Voyageur bitumen
upgrader, which is part of a venture with France’s Total SA,
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Williams  said Nov. 1.  Cadillac Fairview Corp. said Oct. 23 it will spend C$350
million to expand the Sherway Gardens mall in Toronto starting
in January. The real estate developer is a unit of  Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  