-- Cathay Union Threatens Industrial Action in Absence of Talks
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2012-12-04T04:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/cathay-union-threatens-industrial-action-in-absence-of-talks.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) ’s flight
attendants union, which represents more than 5,800 airline cabin
crew members, threatened industrial action if the carrier
doesn’t agree to hold wage talks by 3 p.m. today.  The Flight Attendants Union will set up a preparation
committee for possible action including work to rule or a strike
if the carrier declined the demand, Tsang Kwok-fung, a spokesman,
said by phone today. Elin Wong, a spokeswoman for the  airline ,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  More than 100 flight attendants staged a rally at Hong
Kong’s airport yesterday after the company said last week it
will raise salaries by about 2 percent next year, less than the
5 percent sought by the workers’ union. Cathay yesterday
reiterated its position on pay increments and urged the union to
remain calm and put the interest of the public first.  Shares of the  carrier  fell 0.8 percent to HK$13.30 as of
11:40 a.m. in Hong Kong today. The city’s benchmark  Hang Seng
Index  was little changed.  Cathay Chief Executive Officer John Slosar told staff last
month the airline faces a “very challenging year” and must cut
expenses as it contends with rising fuel costs, declining fares
and a cargo slump caused by the economic slowdown.  Hong Kong’s government last month increased its forecast
for the city’s full-year inflation rate for 2012 to 3.9 percent
from 3.7 percent, citing higher global food prices, the impact
of quantitative easing in advanced economies and a renewed
pickup in housing rental costs. The CPI increased 3.8 percent in
October from a year earlier.  Cathay, which reported a first-half loss, has unveiled
cost-cutting measures including banning spending on festive
gatherings, scrapping a management conference and cutting
entertainment spending to a “bare minimum.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  