-- Chamber of Commerce $33 Million Lost Most Races: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-12-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/chamber-of-commerce-33-million-lost-most-races-bgov-barometer.html
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce went
14-36 in the 2012 congressional races where it ran political
advertisements, rivaling the won-lost record of the 1962  New
York Mets .  The BGOV Barometer shows that the chamber, the largest U.S.
business lobby, compiled a winning percentage of .280 even with
its record spending. The Mets went 13-37 in their  first 50
games , a .260 percentage en route to a record 120-loss season.  The chamber posted a winning record in 2010 as it helped
Republicans gain a House majority and shrink the Democrats’ edge
in the Senate. This time, the business group pledged to boost
its spending to a record $50 million. While the chamber hasn’t
disclosed all of its spending, it reported $33 million in
expenditures on congressional races. Among outside groups that
don’t identify their donors, that’s second only to Americans for
Prosperity, backed by energy executives Charles and  David Koch .  “For conservatives and groups like the chamber, 2010 was
as good as an election as you could have,” said  Bill Allison ,
editorial director at the Sunlight Foundation, a Washington-
based watchdog group. “They weren’t going to stay that
successful this time around. This wasn’t 2010; it was a
different election.”  Rob Engstrom, the chamber’s senior vice president for
political affairs, said the organization still can point to
successes in the last election.  Status-Quo Election  “The U.S. Chamber’s goal in 2012 was to protect gains made
in the House of Representatives in 2010 and advance a pro-
business majority in the Senate,” Engstrom said. “2012 was a
status-quo election, where the balance of power stayed the same.
However, we successfully preserved a free enterprise majority in
the lower chamber, which will serve as a backstop to harmful
legislation and regulations on our members.”  Engstrom said 80 percent of the 304 candidates the chamber
endorsed won election.  Chamber-backed nominees lost 13 of 14 U.S. Senate races and
23 of 36 U.S. House contests where the group ran ads or made
other general-election independent expenditures, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group, and New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG.  The chamber ran 47,595 spots in those races, three-fourths
of them negative, according to data from CMAG, which tracks ads.  It protected 12 incumbents: Republican Senator  Dean Heller 
of Nevada; Democratic Representatives John Barrow of Georgia and
Jim Matheson of Utah; and Republican Representatives Jeff Denham
of California, Mike Coffman of Colorado,  Fred Upton  of Michigan,
Joe Heck of Nevada, Chris Gibson of New York,  Bill Johnson  and
Jim Renacci of Ohio,  Mike Fitzpatrick  of Pennsylvania and  Sean Duffy  of Wisconsin.  Democrat Defeated  The group managed to defeat just one officeholder,
Democratic Representative Kathy Hochul of New York, and backed
Republican Rodney Davis’ successful effort win an open U.S.
House seat in Illinois.  The chamber also said it ran ads before last summer in
support of Republican Representatives Dan Benishek of Michigan
and Dave Reichert of Washington, both of whom were re-elected.
The chamber’s election efforts go beyond advertisements and
include get-out-the-vote operations, endorsement press
conferences and voter education.  The chamber failed to oust Democratic Senators  Bill Nelson 
of Florida,  Claire McCaskill  of Missouri, Jon Tester of Montana,
 Sherrod Brown  of Ohio and Bob Casey of Pennsylvania; and
Representatives Lois Capps and Jerry McNerney of California,
John Tierney of Massachusetts, David Cicilline of Rhode Island,
and Tim Bishop,  Bill Owens  and Louise Slaughter of New York.  Uphill Struggle  “It will take some time for the chamber to rebuild
credibility with those lawmakers that they just spent tens of
millions of dollars trying to defeat,” said  Scott Paul ,
executive director of the Washington-based Alliance for American
Manufacturing.  “It’ll be an uphill struggle for them,
particularly in the Senate. But a lot of that is self-
inflicted.”  Chamber support also wasn’t enough to protect 10 Republican
incumbents -- Senator  Scott Brown  of Massachusetts and
Representatives Brian Bilbray and Dan Lungren of California,
Judy Biggert and Robert Dold of Illinois, Chip Cravaack of
Minnesota, Frank Guinta and Charlie Bass of New Hampshire and
Ann Marie Buerkle and Nan Hayworth of New York.  Allison said he expected the chamber to increase its
political efforts even more in 2014, when fewer voters will go
to the polls and President Barack Obama won’t be on the ballot.  “Going into the midterms, they’re going to be a little
more confident that they will get more bang for the buck,” he
said. “This money isn’t going away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 