-- China Will Keep Economic Policies Stable, Politburo Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-04T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/china-will-keep-economic-policies-stable-politburo-says.html
China  will keep macroeconomic
policies stable, making adjustments as needed to deal with
difficulties, the Communist Party’s Politburo said in its first
assessment of the economy under new leader Xi Jinping.  While the economy is stabilizing, it will “face various
challenges that should not be underestimated” next year, the
official Xinhua News Agency said yesterday, citing a statement
issued after a meeting of the ruling party’s top leaders headed
by Xi. China will make policies “more targeted and effective,
and predetermine or fine-tune these policies at an appropriate
time and in an appropriate way,” according to the statement.  The comments are consistent with policies preceding the
leadership handover that began last month and signal that Xi,
who will probably succeed  Hu Jintao  as president in March, may
avoid boosting stimulus while standing ready to do so should a
nascent rebound in economic growth falter.  “There’s an air of confidence about this statement which
suggests the new leadership believes the recovery is real,”
said  Mark Williams , a London-based economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. and a former China adviser to the U.K. Treasury.
Still, “the key questions about the leadership’s appetite for
reform are still unanswered.”  China will expand domestic demand, actively promote
urbanization, strengthen real-estate controls and support small
business, Xinhua said. The government will also encourage
consolidation in industries with overcapacity, it said. Leaders
will make efforts to keep investment growth steady, Xinhua said.  Growth Target  The world’s second largest  economy  will probably maintain
its official annual growth target of 7.5 percent next year,
according to nine of 16 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  last
month. An unchanged goal would signal that Xi and  Li Keqiang ,
set to succeed  Wen Jiabao  as premier, are prepared to expand
fiscal and monetary easing should the recovery falter.  The nation’s economic growth may be rebounding from a
three-year low, with the government’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
rising to a seven-month high in November, according to data
released Dec. 1.  The Politburo also said yesterday that officials should
reduce their meetings and expenses as part of efforts to cut
waste, Xinhua reported. Leaders will try to tie traffic up less
and will ban “worthless news-reporting,” including reports on
senior civil servants’ work and activities, Xinhua said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  