-- China, S. Korea to Boost Use of Local Currencies in Trade
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-12-04T09:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/china-s-korea-agree-to-boost-use-of-local-currency-in-trade.html
South Korea  said it agreed with China
to allow banks in both countries to borrow funds from an
existing swap arrangement to encourage trade settlement in local
currencies.  A 64 trillion won ($59 billion) swap line will be made
available for loans to allow companies in both countries to
settle deals in the won and yuan, according to a statement today
from the  Finance Ministry  and the  Bank of Korea . The system is
scheduled to start later this month, it said.  The agreement is part of a push among emerging countries to
internationalize local currencies after the global financial
crisis, according to the South Korea statement. Both China and
South Korea acknowledge that the use of the won and  yuan  is
“very low” even as trade between the two countries is
increasing, it said.  “We expect several benefits, such as reduced foreign-
exchange risk and transaction costs for companies,” according
to the statement. Alleviating “external vulnerabilities due to
decreased dependence on the major reserve currencies” is also a
reason for pursuing the deal, it said.  The won was little changed at 1,083.45 per dollar at the
close today in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Kospi index of stocks fell 0.3 percent.  Biggest Partner  China is South Korea’s biggest trading partner with two-way
trade rising to $220.6 billion in 2011, according to a  Finance
Ministry   report  in January. About 2 percent of South Korean
exports during the third quarter were settled in won and the
yuan was used for about 0.2 percent, the Korea Customs Service
said in October.  The strategy of promoting the won though an existing swap
line may not be very fruitful as China also wants the yuan used
more, said  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB
in  Hong Kong .  “Korea needs to market its currency vis-à-vis a number of
major trading partners,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  