-- Christie’s CEO Murphy, Gagosian, Eli Broad Make Top 10
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-12-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/christie-s-ceo-murphy-gagosian-eli-broad-make-top-10.html
Christie’s chief executive officer
 Steven Murphy  is the most powerful person in the art world,
according to Art & Auction’s 2012 top-10 list.  “My hero is  Keith Richards ,” said Murphy in an interview.
“We and the  Rolling Stones  are still doing it. Only Christie’s
has been doing it longer.”  Owing to his technological savvy, Murphy, who joined the
246-year-old auction house in 2010, unseated Sheikha Al-Mayassa
Bint Hamad Bin Khalifa Al-Thani, daughter of the Emir of Qatar
and chair of the  Qatar Museums Authority , who occupied the spot
in 2011.  The 10th annual Power 100 issue is published by New York-
based  Louise Blouin Media . The magazine will be launched at a
private party today at the Haven Lounge in Miami, ahead of the
 Art Basel Miami Beach  fair opening to VIPs tomorrow.  “Steven’s investments transformed Christie’s,” said
 Benjamin Genochio , editor-in-chief of Art & Auction, in an
interview. “In the past 12-18 months, Christie’s has eclipsed
Sotheby’s as the most important auction house.”  Christie’s built up its private sales and online platforms
to attract younger global collectors. “It was clear that our
clients were living half of their lives online,” explained
Murphy.  Power Dealers  No artists made it into the top 10, as usual, but there are
five dealers: ranked third is  Larry Gagosian , who opened his
12th space at the Le Bourget airport outside Paris and has
suggested possible venues in Hong Kong,  London  and Brazil.  Other dealers in the top 10:  David Zwirner , Marc Glimcher,
Christian Deydier and Emmanuel Perrotin, all of whom are going
more global. “There is a trend of consolidation of power,”
said Genocchio.  Los Angeles billionaire Eli Broad is the sole collector
this year; he occupies the 10th position, down from third last
year.  Kevin Ching , chief executive officer of Sotheby’s Asia, led
the auction house’s push into mainland  China , creating a joint
venture with state-owned Beijing Gehua Cultural Development
Groups. He ranked fifth on the list.  To select the most powerful players, the magazine asked for
recommendations from some 50 art world professionals around the
globe, winnowing the numbers down to the top 100, of which only
the top 10 are ranked.  The most significant players were chosen by a jury of
three: Genocchio, Bloomberg’s art market reporter Scott Reyburn
and David Resnicow, the founder of public relations firm
 Resnicow Schroeder .  Keep your eye on Cecilia Alemani, who made her first
appearance on the Power to Watch list for her work at MoMA PS1,
Frieze  New York  and the  High Line .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 