-- McIlroy Is U.S. PGA Tour Player of Year After 2nd Major Win
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-12-04T15:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/mcilroy-is-u-s-pga-tour-player-of-year-after-second-major-win.html
Rory McIlroy was named the U.S. PGA
Tour’s Player of the Year after a season in which he captured
his second career major championship among four victories.  McIlroy, a 23-year-old from Northern Ireland, is the third
European-born player to win the honor in the past five years,
following England’s Luke Donald in 2011 and Ireland’s Padraig Harrington in 2008. He’s the youngest winner since  Tiger Woods 
won in 1998, at age 22.  The No. 1 player in the  Official World Golf Ranking ,
McIlroy captured the PGA Championship in August by a record
eight strokes for his second victory in one of golf’s four major
tournaments. He took the  U.S. Open  in 2011.  John Huh, winner of the Mayakoba Classic and the only
first-year player to qualify for the season-ending Tour
Championship in Atlanta, was named Rookie of the Year. Huh led
rookies with $2.7 million to rank 28th on the money list. He’s
the first player of Korean descent to win the award.  McIlroy was selected over  Jason Dufner ,  Brandt Snedeker ,
Bubba Watson and Woods, who has won the award 10 times in his
career.  His selection snaps a streak of three straight years when
the award went to a golfer without a victory in one of the
sport’s major tournaments. Donald earned the award last year
without a major, following  Jim Furyk  and Woods, who were also
selected without a win in the Masters Tournament, U.S Open,
 British Open  or PGA.  Jack Nicklaus  The Player of the Year award, named after 18-time major
tournament winner  Jack Nicklaus , is intended to focus on the
golfer who does best on the U.S. Tour, with voting limited to
members of the circuit. McIlroy completed his first season as a
full-time U.S. Tour member this year after splitting time in
Europe and the U.S. over the previous five years.  Ballots for the award went out to PGA Tour players the
first week of November. Vote totals weren’t disclosed in a
statement released today by the  Ponte Vedra Beach , Florida-based
Tour, the world’s richest golf circuit.  McIlroy, who also won consecutive FedEx Cup playoff events
at the Deutsche Bank Championship and BMW Championship, finished
as runner-up to Snedeker in the season-long FedEx Cup points
competition. He led all players with $8.1 million in earnings
and won the Vardon Trophy with the lowest scoring average of
68.87.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  