-- Climate Talks Are Like Stalled Doha Trade Round, Chamber Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-12-04T13:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/climate-talks-are-like-stalled-doha-trade-round-chamber-says.html
Global climate talks are heading
toward stalemate, preventing businesses from spending the
billions of dollars needed to transform economies and cut
emissions, said the  International Chamber of Commerce .  Seventeen years of negotiations are heading the way of
stalled Doha trade talks, said Jean-Guy Carrier, secretary
general of the Paris-based chamber, whose members represent
millions of businesses from Qatar to the U.S.  About 200 nations are meeting at the Doha climate talks to
set rules governing greenhouse gases after targets in the  Kyoto
Protocol  expire this year. Unlike in the European Union, there
are no rules capping output of emissions in nations including
the U.S., China and India. Companies are struggling to deal with
the uncertainty of potential climate rules, as they are
grappling with 3,000 bilateral trade agreements, Carrier said.  “Tell us what the rules are going to be so we know how to
integrate them into our business,” Carrier said yesterday at
the United Nations-sponsored talks in Doha. He said he was
frustrated at the slow pace.  “It’s fine to send more and bigger delegations to these
talks. But we all know the political forces, the ones who make
the ultimate decisions on these things, don’t show any signs of
being willing to engage,” he said.  Companies are hoarding cash rather than spending it because
there is too much risk due to the lack of rules, Carrier said.
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  is limiting expenditures on growing its
thermal coal assets as the world’s biggest mining company
grapples with the environmental impact of burning the fuel. BHP
 earned  8.4 percent of its revenue from thermal coal in the year
ended June 30, 2012.  Inadequate Progress  “The issue with greenhouse gas has sort of fallen off the
agenda as economic conditions have gotten tighter globally,”
Marcus Randolph, chief executive officer at the Melbourne-based
company’s iron ore and coal unit, said today on a call with
reporters. “The amount of progress that the world has shown in
the last couple of years in dealing with  climate change  is,
frankly, inadequate.”  President  Barack Obama  is favoring  job creation  over
protecting the climate, Carrier said.  “One doesn’t exclude the other. Green technology
investment in  developing countries  last year was $100 billion.
There’s already a jobs argument built into that. That’s one of
the things we think politicians aren’t getting,” he said.  Greenhouse gas levels in the atmosphere touched an all-time
high in 2011, according to the  World Meteorological
Organization .  Hurricane Sandy  caused at least $25 billion of
damage when it struck New Jersey and New York in October.  Economic turmoil in Europe is restricting global efforts to
cut fossil-fuel emissions and curb pollution as climate change
policy is “sliding off the agenda,” International Energy
Agency Chief Economist  Fatih Birol  said in an interview before
the UN’s annual meeting on the subject.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  