-- Clinton 1990s Tax Team Seeks Heavier Burdens Than Obama
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-12-04T19:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/clinton-1990s-tax-team-seeks-heavier-burdens-than-obama.html
Some of the architects of the 1990s
tax policy that President  Barack Obama  invokes as a model say
taxes should be higher and reach deeper into the middle class
than the president has proposed to solve a fiscal dilemma.  Taxes should be raised by $1.8 trillion over the next
decade and capital gains should be taxed at 28 percent, up from
the current 15 percent, according to a report released today by
the  Center for American Progress , a Washington group with ties
to Democrats. Many deductions would be converted into credits,
and taxes would rise by an average of $468 in 2017 for
households earning between $100,000 and $250,000 a year, a group
that Obama has largely pledged to shield from heavier burdens.  “By reforming our tax system, we do it in a progressive
way and we raise the revenue that’s needed to run an effective
government,”  John Podesta , a co-author who was chief of staff
under President  Bill Clinton , told reporters on a conference
call today.  The plan’s co-authors include  Robert Rubin  and  Lawrence Summers , who each served as Treasury secretary for Clinton.  Also listed as co-authors are former Clinton administration
members William Daley, who was Commerce secretary, and  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR)  Chairman  Roger Altman  and Leslie Samuels, who were
top officials at the Treasury Department. Daley and Summers also
worked in the Obama administration, and Podesta is now chairman
of the Center for American Progress. Another co-author is
Antonio Weiss, global head of investment banking at Lazard, Ltd.  Fiscal Cliff  Their plan adds to the debate between the Obama
administration and congressional Republicans over how to avert
the so-called fiscal cliff, more than $600 billion in automatic
spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to take effect in
January. Lawmakers are trying to prevent a short-term shock to
the economy and reach an agreement on long-term deficit
reduction.  The proposal calls for a top income tax rate of 39.6
percent, the same as under Clinton and in Obama’s budget. It
would repeal the alternative minimum tax, set the top estate tax
rate at 48 percent, and raise corporate taxes by 4 percent while
lowering the statutory rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  