-- Coal of Africa Matches Record Low on Strike Action: Johannesburg
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-12-04T15:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/coal-of-africa-matches-record-low-on-strike-action-johannesburg.html
Coal of Africa Ltd.  dropped to a
joint record low after workers started an illegal strike at its
Mooiplaats operations in  South Africa , the second walkout at the
plant in less than two months.  Perth, Australia-based Coal of  Africa  fell 7.1 percent to
1.69 rand by 5:07 p.m. in Johannesburg after earlier plummeting
as much as 12 percent to 1.60 rand, matching the lowest since
the shares began trading in 2006. About 697,000 shares changed
hands, matching the daily average over the past three months.  “Just when the dust has settled, of course the Mooiplaats
crew is on another” strike, Ryan Wibberley, an equity trader at
Investec Asset Management, said by phone from  Cape Town . “The
uncertainty is what gives the shares a kick in the teeth.”  Management is in talks with the  National Union of
Mineworkers  to resolve the latest issue, which arose following
the suspension of four workers, the company said in a statement
today. The union counts 244 of the colliery’s 368 employees as
members.  The previous strike, held over demands for higher wages,
was called off by NUM on Oct. 30 after about five weeks, Coal of
Africa said last month. The continued  strike action  will have a
severe impact on Mooiplaats and will probably result in job
losses, the company said.  “Just watching these headlines it’s not good for anybody
and has a negative impact for the foreign shareholder base,”
Wibberley said.  South Africa’s worst mining strikes since the end of
apartheid in 1994 started at platinum operations in August and
spread to coal, gold and iron sites in subsequent months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  