-- Colombia Central Bank ‘Reluctant’ to Cut Rates More, Santos Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   M i c h a e l   S m i t h
-- 2012-12-04T14:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/colombia-central-bank-reluctant-to-cut-rates-more-santos-says.html
Colombia’s central bank board has
probably ended its current cycle of  interest rate  cuts,
following last month’s surprise quarter-point reduction,
President  Juan Manuel Santos  said.  Policy makers including Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas 
voted 4-3 to lower the  benchmark interest rate  to 4.5 percent on
Nov. 23, a move forecast by only two of 33 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Cardenas backed the cut after urging looser monetary
policy to curb the appreciation of the peso.  “We’ve been trying to convince the board to lower the
interest rate, more on revaluation than on any other issue,”
Santos said in an interview yesterday in the Presidential Palace
in Bogota. “The bank will probably be very reluctant to
continue lowering it.”  Colombia has cut borrowing costs three times since July, as
weak world growth damped demand for the Andean nation’s oil,
coal and coffee.  Industrial output  shrank 1.3 percent in
September from a year earlier, its second consecutive year-on-
year decline. Manufacturers have been hurt by the peso’s 6.9
percent rally against the dollar this year, the fifth-best
performance among the 31-most traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Cardenas called the latest rate cut an exercise in
“adjustment and calibration.” Yields on  Colombia ’s benchmark
bonds due July 2024 have fallen 0.11 percentage point to 5.98
percent since the reduction.  In a  statement  accompanying the decision, the central bank
cited the weak global economy and a contraction in domestic
industrial production.  Interbolsa  The collapse of  Interbolsa SA (INTBOL) ’s brokerage, Colombia’s
biggest, didn’t influence the central bank’s decision, Santos
said. The fall of the brokerage had been an isolated case and
did not reflect widespread excessive risk-taking, Santos said.  “I can guarantee you it’s completely contained,” Santos
said. “We acted on time and with sufficient force, without
doing too much or too little.”  Cardenas said Nov. 7 that regulators would liquidate
Interbolsa’s brokerage after it had failed to meet a loan
payment a week earlier.  The government’s peace talks in  Havana  with guerrillas from
the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, offer
“only an upside” for foreign investors, Santos said.  “If we are successful, in economic terms in the long term
it will create a very big peace dividend,” Santos said. “But,
if we fail, there will be no cost for the country because we are
not giving these people any room for any advantage militarily or
in terms of control of territory.”  Operating Principles  Colombian armed forces yesterday said they killed at least
20 FARC rebels after launching the bloodiest battle since peace
talks started with the Marxist group two months ago.  Talks aimed at ending Colombia’s half-century conflict
resumed last month in Havana after kicking off in Oslo in
October.  If the peace talks lead to revelations that foreign
companies made extortion payments to illegal armed groups, the
government will expel them from Colombia, Santos said.  “I have said very clearly that any company that is paying
extortion will be kicked out,” Santos said. “I hope that they
are not contributing to finance these groups, but one never
knows. Truth, reparations and justice are the principles that
need to be applied as a solution to this conflict. They might
reveal companies that are making payments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Smith  in Santiago at 
 mssmith@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 