-- Colombia Yields Decline to Record Low Before CPI; Currency Rises
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-12-04T19:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/colombia-yields-decline-to-record-low-before-cpi-currency-rises.html
Colombian peso bond yields fell to a
record low on speculation that inflation was contained in
November, boosting demand for the fixed-rate securities.  The yield on the government’s 10 percent bonds due in July
2024 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.96
percent at the close of trading in Bogota, according to the
central bank. The peso strengthened 0.1 percent to 1,812.99 per
 U.S. dollar , extending its rally this year to 6.9 percent.  “The expectations are for inflation and the central bank
to hold steady, and that justifies demand in the long end of the
curve,” said Juan Camilo Santana, an analyst at Cia. de
Profesionales de Bolsa brokerage.  The central bank board has probably ended its current cycle
of interest-rate cuts following last month’s surprise quarter-
point reduction, President  Juan Manuel Santos  said yesterday in
an interview.  “It gives me an additional reason to think that the
central bank will hold rates,” said Cesar Corredor, an analyst
at Banco de Bogota SA.  Colombia ’s monthly inflation was 0.16 percent in November,
matching the rate in October, according to the median forecast
of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The national statistics
agency is scheduled to release the report tomorrow.  Three-month swap rates were unchanged at 4.38 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank will hold borrowing costs at 4.5 percent
at its December meeting, according to all of the 15 economists
in a Bloomberg survey. The final policy meeting of the year was
postponed to Dec. 21 from Dec. 14, the central bank said today,
citing an agenda conflict for Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  