-- Congo May Block Plans to Guard Goma Airport With Mixed Force
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-12-04T14:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/congo-may-block-plans-to-guard-goma-airport-with-mixed-force-1-.html
The  Democratic Republic  of Congo may
block plans to deploy a combined force of M23 rebels and
national army forces to guard the airport in Goma, Interior
Minister Richard Muyej said.  An accord between the rebels, Congo’s government and
neighboring Rwanda and  Uganda  last month called for joint
control of the airport using a company of soldiers each from the
M23, the army and a “neutral force” along with United Nations
peacekeepers. The UN currently controls the airport.  “What’s important is that the airport is totally secured
and there is not a dangerous coexistence that could create
suspicions and bring us new conflict,” Muyej told reporters in
today in Goma, capital of Congo’s North Kivu province.  M23 fighters withdrew from Goma on Dec. 1 in anticipation
of direct negotiations with President  Joseph Kabila  after
controlling the city for 11 days. The rebels have remained in a
ring around the city, within a 20-kilometer (12-mile) neutral
zone they had agreed to leave, Brigadier-General Bansi Ponnappa,
the commander of the UN’s North Kivu brigade, told reporters at
the airport.  The rebel group and Congolese officials will hold talks
tomorrow in the Ugandan capital, Kampala, Ntumba Luamba,
executive secretary of the International Conference on the Great
Lakes Region, told reporters in Bujumbura, the Burundian
capital. “Technical teams” representing the Congolese
government and the rebels are already in Kampala preparing for
the political negotiations, he said.  ‘Peace Deal’  “All parties are ready for talks,” Luamba said.
“Everyone is ready for a peace deal.”  Goma airport is expected to reopen by tomorrow, Muyej said.
M23 spokesman Colonel Vianney Kazarama’s mobile phone didn’t
connect when Bloomberg called him seeking comment.  Commercial banks in the city reopened today and the central
bank’s offices may reopen tomorrow, Muyej said. About 1,000
Congolese police have deployed in Goma to protect the civilian
population, General Charles Bisengimana, the national head of
police, told reporters in Goma. The rebels stole all police
vehicles as they withdrew, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  