-- Delta Covets London Growth With Stake in Virgin Atlantic
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r ,   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-12-04T21:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/delta-covets-london-growth-with-stake-in-virgin-atlantic.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ’s interest in
buying a stake in Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. would position
the U.S. carrier to grab more of the world’s most lucrative
market for premium passengers.  Talks are under way for Delta to acquire  Singapore Airlines
Ltd. (SIA) ’s 49 percent of Virgin Atlantic, two people familiar with
the matter said. An agreement could let Virgin form a trans-
Atlantic venture with Delta and SkyTeam alliance partner  Air
France-KLM Group (AF)  to serve London’s Heathrow airport.  North Atlantic flights generate roughly a quarter of all
global revenue from first- and business-class fares, more than
twice as much as the second-place Pacific routes, according to
the International Air Transport Association. Heathrow is closer
to  London  than Delta’s previous base at Gatwick airport, which
U.S. airlines have shunned since flight rules eased in 2008.  “Delta doesn’t have that many flights to Heathrow, and
Virgin would get more access” to airports in New York and Los
Angeles via Delta, said Jeff Straebler, an analyst with John
Hancock Financial Services in  Boston . “In terms of having a
presence at Heathrow, it’s the only way for Delta.”  Richard Branson, Virgin’s founder and owner of a 51 percent
stake, touched off industry speculation about a Heathrow land
grab after hiring Deutsche Bank AG to assess options in 2010.
The London airport finished 2011 as  Europe ’s busiest and No. 3
in the world, behind Atlanta’s Hartsfield and Beijing.  ‘Interested Parties’  Singapore Airlines said yesterday that negotiations with
“interested parties” may not result in a transaction.
Spokesmen for Atlanta-based Delta, Virgin and Air France-KLM
declined to comment about any talks on the sale of the stake.  For Branson, joining an airline marketing group would break
with his history. While British Airways and other rivals grew
with mergers and alliances, the 62-year-old billionaire sought
to lure high-fare fliers to Crawley, England-based Virgin with
amenities such as a cheese trolley and Lanson Black Label
Champagne.  “Virgin desperately needs something like this,” said Jay Sorensen, who formed an agreement to share booking codes with
Virgin when he worked at Midwest Express in the early 2000s.
“They would benefit from Delta’s discipline and strategic
direction.”  The risk for Virgin Atlantic is whether a business
association with a traditional airline would change its emphasis
on style and comfort, said Sorensen, who now runs consultant
IdeaWorks in Shorewood,  Wisconsin .  Brand Risk?  “There really is an essence of this brand that is
incompatible with everyone else,” he said. “How would you
integrate that service and those expectations? The answer is you
can’t, not easily.”  Chief Executive Officer Richard Anderson has focused Delta
on transformative deals such as the 2008 purchase of Northwest
Airlines Corp., a slot trade with US Airways Group Inc. that
strengthened Delta’s grip on New York’s LaGuardia airport and
the purchase of an oil refinery this year to help make jet fuel.  Some of the strategic approach at Delta, the world’s
second-biggest airline, would probably be pressed upon Virgin,
said Vicki Bryan, an analyst at New York-based debt researcher
Gimme Credit LLC.  “Not everybody can do what Delta does, and Delta isn’t
going to do a deal like this unless they think they can
influence Virgin’s path,” Bryan said. Virgin had a pretax loss
of 80.2 million pounds ($129.1 million) for the year ended in
February.  Prized Slots  Delta, Air France-KLM and their SkyTeam partners are the
smallest alliance group at Heathrow, with about 5 percent of
takeoff and landing slots. Oneworld, led by British Airways and
 AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines, dominates with almost half of all
service, followed by  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and its
Star Alliance with about a quarter of slots.  Heathrow slots are so prized that Continental Airlines paid
$209 million for four pairs in 2008. That was the year when new
EU rules allowed Delta and more of its U.S. rivals to start
serving Heathrow, located about 15 miles (24 kilometers) from
London, roughly half as far as Gatwick.  Singapore Air paid 600.3 million pounds for the Virgin
stake in 1999, or about $966 million now. Delta may pay $1.1
billion to $1.3 billion for the stake, CNBC reported yesterday,
citing sources it didn’t identify.  EU Rules  Delta is discussing buying all or part of the Singapore
Airlines stake, said the people familiar with the discussions,
who asked not to be identified because the matter is private.
Paris-based Air France-KLM, Europe’s largest carrier, might also
purchase stock, they said. European Union rules require the
zone’s airlines to be under European control.  Delta rose 1.1 percent to $9.73 at the close in New York.
British Airways parent  International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA (IAG)  gained 0.8 percent to 172.70 pence in London, while Singapore
Airlines closed 0.1 percent lower at S$10.72.  Branson’s influence over his signature airline and his
other holdings such as the U.S. carrier Virgin America Inc.,
which he founded with a 25 percent stake, extends beyond the
financial.  In 2011, he handed out Virgin America travel vouchers to
people riding a train from  Chicago ’s O’Hare airport and later
committed to a flight attendant’s request to have the entire
cabin crew of 500 outfitted with red stiletto heels similar to
the ones their U.K. counterparts wear.  No Alliances  Virgin Atlantic has rejected the global alliances for a
decade. The groups allow carriers to book passengers on one
another’s planes -- in effect expanding their networks without
the cost of additional planes and crew.  Some carriers such as Delta and Air France-KLM have an even
deeper relationship with antitrust immunity that lets them
coordinate fares and flight times and operate as a single
entity. European and U.S. laws prevent foreign carriers from
owning a majority stake in an airline.  A Virgin deal would be Delta’s third with a foreign carrier
in recent years, after agreeing to buy 3 percent of  Brazil ’s  Gol
Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOL)  for $100 million in 2011, and
completing a $65 million investment in  Grupo Aeromexico SAB (AEROMEX*)  this
year. Both deals also gave Delta a board seat.  Any involvement with Virgin would have to be on favorable
terms, said Bryan, the Gimme Credit analyst, who rates Delta’s
bonds as outperform.  “Delta doesn’t overpay for assets, and they’re not just
going to write a check,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  