-- Deutsche Post Sells 2 Billion Euros in Bonds for Pensions
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-12-04T17:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/deutsche-post-sells-2-billion-euros-in-bonds-for-pensions.html
Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ,  Europe ’s largest
postal service, sold 2 billion euros ($2.61 billion) in bonds to
reduce the burden of pension costs on earnings.  Investors bought 1 billion euros of debt convertible to
stock once the shares rise 30 percent from today’s price, as
well as two conventional bonds totaling 1 billion euros, to
almost double funds available for German employees’ retirement
payments, the Bonn-based company said today in a  statement .  Germany ’s government demanded Deutsche Post repay 298
million euros in pension subsidies in May following a European
Commission ruling that state funding provided since 1989
breached antitrust legislation. Pension provisions at Deutsche
Post, whose employees in Germany represented 39 percent of its
global workforce in 2011, topped 4.4 billion euros as of Sept.
30, according to the company’s nine-month earnings report.  “It’s very clever of Deutsche Post because they’re using
their financial strength to continue funding their pensions,”
said  Jochen Rothenbacher , a Frankfurt-based Equinet analyst who
has an accumulate recommendation on Deutsche Post. “It’s also
earnings accretive.”  Deutsche Post shares  fell  as much as 1.7 percent to 15.82
euros and were trading down 1.6 percent at 5:10 p.m. in
Frankfurt. The stock has gained 34 percent this year.  Companies in the European market sold $1.87 trillion in
bonds this near, slightly less than the $1.99 trillion raised in
all of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Convertible Terms  The convertible bonds can be exchanged for 48 million
common shares and have a 0.6 percent coupon, Deutsche Post said.
They were initially offered to investors with a coupon range of
0.25 percent to 0.95 percent, according to a previous statement.
The debt has a seven-year maturity and cannot be redeemed by
Deutsche Post before five years, it said.  The postal operator, which also owns the DHL express-
delivery and freight-handling brand, sold 700 million euros in
12-year conventional bonds yielding 100 basis points more than
the benchmark swap rate. It also sold 300 million euros in
eight-year debt at 60 basis points over the swap rate. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  “We are very pleased with the results of today’s
placement,” Chief Financial Officer Larry Rosen said in the
statement. “We view the strong demand and the attractive terms
as a renewed indication of the high standing enjoyed by Deutsche
Post DHL.”  The company, which is seeking to increase profit as much as
45 percent by 2015 by trimming administrative costs and
expanding DHL, had 4.2 billion euros in  outstanding debt  before
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cash ‘Improvement’  “We expect a positive effect on our earnings and an
improvement in our  cash flow ,” Rosen said in an earlier
statement. “Our employees benefit from the additional security
of knowing that the financing of their pensions has been
separated” from business performance.  Deutsche Post’s 2.95 percent bonds due 2022 fell 0.6
percent to 104.69 cents on the euro, the biggest drop on Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporates Non-Financial Index of
investment-grade corporate debt. The yield premium that
investors demand to buy the notes relative to the swap rate
widened 7 basis points to 78 basis points, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield spread on Deutsche Post’s notes compares with 106
basis points for the EMU Corporates Non-Financial Index, which
tracks 948 company securities with an average maturity of five
years.  The debt-sale funding of a greater portion of Deutsche
Post’s pensions will improve operating cash flow and have a
“small positive effect” on net income, the company said.  Participating Banks  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  was the global coordinator and joint
bookrunner for both sets of bonds.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  were the joint bookrunners for the
convertible bond, with Commerzbank AG, HSBC Bank Plc, ING Groep
NV, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  the joint bookrunners
for the conventional bonds.  Deutsche Post, which is led by Chief Executive Officer
Frank Appel, contributed 530 million euros to its pension fund
for this year, according to the nine-month report.  The company has a  credit rating  of Baa1 with a positive
outlook at Moody’s Investors Service. Fitch gives Deutsche Post
debt a BBB+ grade with a stable outlook. Both ratings are the
third-lowest investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in  Frankfurt  at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  