-- Dutch Coalition Lawmakers Back Greek Aid in Signal Vote to Pass
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2012-12-04T20:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/dutch-coalition-lawmakers-back-greek-aid-in-signal-vote-to-pass.html
Dutch lawmakers representing parties
with a parliamentary majority backed Greece’s revised aid
package at a committee meeting, indicating passage when the full
parliament votes next week.  “This package avoids an immediate bankruptcy of Greece so
we support it,” Mark Harbers of Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s
Liberal Party said during the debate. The agreement “weighs
heavily” on him, Harbers said, adding he doesn’t rule out a
write-off of bilateral loans to Greece in the long run. Henk
Nijboer of the  Labor Party , the Liberals’ coalition partner,
said his group also backs the aid plan.  The Dutch Cabinet asked the parliament earlier today to
vote on Greece’s latest aid package before euro-area finance
ministers meet on Dec. 13 in Brussels. Members of the
parliamentary finance committee discussed the package today, and
the full parliament may vote after a debate Dec. 12, Hester
Oomes, a parliamentary spokeswoman, said by phone.  The  Christian Democrats , an opposition party, also backs
the new Greek aid plan, legislator Eddy Van Hijum said at
today’s meeting. “Step by step we’re pulling this country out
of the well,” he said.  Euro-area finance ministers last week agreed to lower
 interest rates  on bilateral loans to Greece and funnel their
countries’ potential profits on Greek bonds held by the  European
Central Bank  to Greece’s bailout account. The concessions may
cost the Netherlands approximately 70 million euros ($92
million) a year over the next 14 years, Finance Minister Jeroen
Dijsselbloem said Nov. 26.  The bid to ease Greece’s debt burden underscores a move
away from austerity-first measures European leaders have
embraced since the fiscal crisis began in 2009. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  this week signaled her country may
ultimately accept a write-off of Greek debt, previously a taboo
for the biggest contributor to bailouts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  