-- Obama’s Fiscal Cliff Irresponsibility
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2012-12-04T00:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/the-white-house-s-fiscal-cliff-irresponsibility.html
After the Republicans'  counteroffer  on the fiscal cliff today, ABC's Jake
Tapper  tweeted a response  from a senior White House official: "if GOP doesnt
agree to higher rates for top 2%, we'll go over the cliff and the American
people will hold them responsible." This is a hugely irresponsible threat from
President  Barack Obama 's administration. As  Ezra Klein  puts it, the fiscal cliff is really an " austerity crisis " --
without congressional action, automatic forces will bring too much fiscal
austerity, too fast. So why is President Obama threatening to block any solution to the austerity
crisis unless it includes tax rate increases on the top 2 percent of Americans?
A high-income tax increase doesn't do anything to solve the austerity crisis; in
fact, it's a mild dose of austerity itself. Usually, liberals defend the high-income tax increases on the grounds that
they have a low fiscal multiplier, meaning there will be little short-term
economic damage from a tax increase. Indeed, revenue from a high-income tax
increase could be used to finance other fiscal stimulus, raising short-term
economic growth. But this perspective completely misses the politics of the fiscal cliff. The
president has a variety of objectives, including avoiding the imposition of most
austerity measures, implementing a little bit of additional stimulus and raising
tax rates at the top. Republicans have other objectives, including avoiding  tax
rate  increases and imposing near-term austerity. As a result, insisting on raising taxes on the wealthy does not create room
for other fiscal stimulus. It actually reduces the room for fiscal stimulus: If
he holds the line on his tax demand, Obama has less ability to extract
concessions from the Republicans on other austerity measures, like the
sequesters. The fiscal cliff discussions should be heading in the direction Matt Yglesias
laid out  last week : Obama should cave on his tax demand and Republicans on their
austerity demands, leading to the minimum possible amount of austerity in
2013. I suspect that is where Obama will end up, and that he is talking up the tax
increase for political and tactical reasons. Appearing to be inflexible on the
tax issue will motivate Republicans to give up more in order to gain his
acquiescence, and tax increases on the rich are more popular than the anti-
austerity policies needed to support the recovery in 2013. But if that senior official isn't bluffing -- if the White House really is
willing to risk an austerity crisis unless it gets its way on an unrelated
policy matter -- then the Obama Administration is as irresponsible as it often
accuses Republicans of being. (Josh Barro is lead writer for the Ticker.  E-mail  him and  follow  him on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .