-- EADS Said to Study Buyback to Cushion Holder Sales
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-12-04T16:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/eads-said-to-study-buyback-to-cushion-holder-sales.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD)  is considering a buyback of as much as 3 billion euros
($3.93 billion) worth of stock to help mitigate the effect of
shares being sold on the market as founding investors pare their
stakes, people familiar with the plan said.  The buyback would happen next year after shareholders have
reorganized their holdings, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plan is private. German carmaker  Daimler
AG (DAI) , which has said it wants to cut its stake to focus on its
main business, will sell as much as 7.5 percent of EADS stock on
the market this month depending on demand, the people said.  EADS is approaching the biggest overhaul of its ownership
structure since the parent of Airbus SAS was founded in 2000.
While  Germany  would become a direct shareholder with a stake
equaling France’s holding, neither government would gain sway
over strategy, as Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  seeks to
avoid state involvement in the running of his company.  EADS declined as much as 39 cents, or 1.5 percent, to 26.05
euros in Paris following the Bloomberg report, after advancing
as much as 3.8 percent in earlier trading. The stock has gained
8.9 percent this year. Daimler, the maker of Mercedes Benz cars,
dropped as much as 0.2 percent in  Frankfurt .  The buyback’s size is still being negotiated and will
likely be in the range of 2 billion euros to 3 billion euros,
two people said. EADS would cancel the shares it has bought,
they said.  Gaining Stake  Germany, which now doesn’t own EADS shares directly, would
gain its holding by taking over some of the 7.5 percent holding
now owned by some German banks and federal states, as well as
half of Daimler’s 15 percent direct holding, the people said.  The group that owns 7.5 percent may also participate in the
accelerated bookbuilding, one of the people said.  Spokespeople for EADS, based in Toulouse in southern
 France , and Stuttgart-based Daimler declined to comment.  Lagardere, the Paris-based publishing business whose CEO,
Arnaud Lagardere, is EADS chairman, is set to follow with a
disposal next year. The company holds 7.5 percent of EADS, and
Lagardere has said he wants to sell the holding to concentrate
on his media assets.  The disposals are likely to weigh on EADS’s share price, a
drop that a buyback would seek to damp. EADS, which has 827.1
million shares outstanding, would cancel those purchased, the
people said. The move would require an extraordinary shareholder
meeting to gain approval next year, they said.  Cash Reserves  EADS had more than 8 billion euros in cash on hand at the
end of September, giving the company enough financial firepower
for a buyback without jeopardizing its  credit rating . Total
gross cash stood at at 13.7 billion euros in September, Chief
Financial Officer Harald Wilhelm told investors yesterday.  While governments will be major EADS shareholders, the new
setup will no longer give them veto powers over strategic
decisions, limiting their special rights instead to blocking
hostile takeovers, the people said. France would hold 12 percent
directly and park another 3 percent it already owns in a trust
to assure parity with German, the people said.  Spain ’s share
would decline to about 4 percent, they said.  Enders has lobbied for years to curtail governments’
involvement in EADS as he seeks to create what he has termed a
“normal company.” The proposed merger with London-based  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/) , announced in September, fell apart against German
opposition in October, derailing Enders’ attempt to limit state
control.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net  