-- EDF Falls on Rising Costs for Normandy Nuclear Reactor
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-12-04T14:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/edf-falls-in-paris-on-rising-costs-for-normandy-nuclear-reactor.html
Electricite de France SA  declined in
Paris as the biggest nuclear operator raised the estimated cost
of developing its EPR reactor in Normandy to 8.5 billion euros
($11 billion), more than double the initial estimate.  The utility, which retained its 2016 target for starting up
the reactor, said the plant’s costs grew because of changes to
its engineering and design, and lessons learned from  Japan ’s
Fukushima nuclear disaster. The figure includes 2 billion euros
of higher costs on a constant currency basis, plus an additional
increase to take inflation into account, an EDF official said
yesterday.  “The risks in EDF are piling up,” Ingo Becker, an analyst
in  Frankfurt  at Kepler  Capital Markets  who has a reduce rating,
said in a note. A 13 euro price estimate “isn’t safe at all.”  EDF  dropped  as much as 2.7 percent and was trading down 38
cents at 13.915 euros by 3:05 p.m. in Paris. The company has
slumped 28 percent this year in part on concern about the cost
of refurbishing current reactors and building new ones.  The EPR at Flamanville is a showcase for third-generation
reactors that French nuclear companies want to export. State-
owned EDF began building the 1,650-megawatt reactor at a current
plant in December 2007 for an initial estimate of 3.3 billion
euros and with plans for a 2012 startup. Costs have grown since,
with EDF revising estimates each year since 2010. In July 2011,
it added 1 billion euros to bring the figure to about 6 billion
euros. The company also delayed operations to 2016 from 2014.  Exceeding Bears  “The costs have already exceeded even the most bearish
estimates and this is with at least three more years of
development ahead of us,” Sofia Savvantidou, an analyst at
Citigroup, said in a note. The difficulties in  France  raise
concerns over EDF’s plans to develop EPRs in the U.K., she said.  EDF has grappled with building and safety setbacks at the
project. Safety authorities raised concerns over welding quality
and shut the site over issues with cement used. In August 2010,
EDF was ordered to improve the strength of a control platform.  It said costs rose partly because the plant is the first of
its kind, citing the need to develop a new boiler design, meet
regulatory and safety demands and carry out engineering studies.  Areva SA (AREVA) , which designed the EPR and began developing one
in  Finland  in 2005, said EDF’s new cost estimate “is not
representative of the price of an EPR reactor in the series
offered in the market today.”  New Orders  “The French reactor has not benefited from experience
gained on the Finnish construction project for reasons of
industrial organization and schedule,” the Paris-based nuclear
generator builder said in a statement. Areva is aiming to get 10
new orders for EPR reactors by 2016, Chief Executive Officer Luc
Oursel has said.  The Olkiluoto 3 reactor, originally scheduled to be
completed in 2009 at a cost of 3 billion euros, has faced
construction delays and cost overruns. Areva dismissed as
“groundless” a report in Les Echos newspaper in October 2011
that costs have risen to 6.6 billion euros. The builder has
booked more than 3 billion euros of provisions on the project
and the operator has warned it won’t be ready for regular power
production in 2014.  EDF, the operator of 58 French and 15 U.K. reactors, and
Areva are also developing two EPRs in China and planning more in
the U.K.  The warning about Flamanville costs comes less than a week
after France began a debate on energy that the government says
will set a road map for lowering its reliance on atomic power.  Plan Scrapped  French President  Francois Hollande  scrapped a plan by
predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy  to develop another EPR at Penly,
also in Normandy. Hollande has also promised to shut EDF’s
oldest nuclear reactor at Fessenheim at the end of 2016.  EDF has forecast spending on aging reactors will rise in
the next three years because of stricter safety measures after
Fukushima and a program to keep current plants running longer.  The company has a 30 percent stake in Taishan Nuclear Power
Joint Venture Co. to develop and operate two 1,700-megawatt EPRs
with China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group. Areva, also run by the
government, is supplying components.          Construction of
Taishan 1 began in November 2009, while Taishan 2 started in
April 2010. EDF expects the plants to begin operating in 2014
and 2015.  Construction time should be 40 percent shorter for the
Chinese EPRs compared with the Finnish one, Areva said in
today’s statement. The number of engineering hours was reduced
by more than half and the time between pouring the first
concrete and placing of the reactor dome was shortened by 23
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  