-- Hedge-Fund Ads Might Spawn Frauds Unless SEC Takes Action
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-04T23:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/hedge-fund-ads-might-spawn-frauds-unless-sec-takes-action.html
Congress probably didn’t mean to turn
the $2.3 trillion hedge-fund industry into a breeding ground for
fraud when it passed a law designed to make it easier for small
companies to raise capital. That may well be the result unless
the Securities and Exchange Commission steps in with new rules.  Congress passed the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS)
Act with bipartisan support, and President  Barack Obama  signed
it into law in April. Among its provisions, this misguided piece
of  legislation  allows so-called private placements and hedge
funds, lightly regulated private investment pools that serve the
wealthy and institutions, to advertise their wares to the public
for the first time.  Not only is this a bad idea, it is unnecessary. High-
performing hedge funds aren’t having trouble raising money to
invest. In September, the last month for which data is
available, funds in the  top 10 percent  as measured by investment
returns picked up an additional $10 billion to manage. The
bottom 10 percent had an outflow of $6.4 billion.  It isn’t hard to see what lifting the ad ban might lead to:
Underperformers will flog their funds on the airwaves, on
websites and in the pages of the financial press, aiming at
unsophisticated investors eager to get the same fabulous returns
as the Wall Street elite.  Protect Investors  Unfortunately, the SEC seems willing to let  hedge funds 
market themselves with no serious constraints on what they say
or to whom they say it. About the only restriction that would
apply is an existing prohibition on making knowingly  false
claims .  To protect investors, the SEC should ensure that only
accredited investors -- those deemed sophisticated and wealthy
enough to assess risks and absorb losses -- can invest in
advertised hedge funds. Generally, these investors must meet an
annual income or net worth test, currently $200,000 ($300,000
for a couple) and $1 million, respectively. But these financial
thresholds haven’t been updated since 1982. Because of
inflation, the potential pool of accredited investors may be  20
times larger  now than it was three decades ago.  The SEC considered updating these figures in 2007,
acknowledging that they are outdated, but it never followed
through. To bring the benchmarks up to date, the agency should
adjust the income standard to $500,000 for individuals ($750,000
for couples) and net worth to $2.5 million, and then index them
to  inflation .  In addition, hedge funds should be required to verify
investors’ assets or income, perhaps by having a third party
review and attest to their financial statements. The SEC also
might consider a way of gauging investor sophistication; someone
who made millions of dollars in a construction company may know
little about financial markets.  The agency can apply the same advertising and marketing
guidelines to hedge funds that it already applies to  mutual
funds , which are among the market participants urging the SEC to
act. They would be at a competitive disadvantage if hedge funds
could bypass the elaborate set of limitations imposed on mutual
funds. For example, mutual funds disclose their fee structure,
provide performance metrics based on standardized yardsticks and
reveal their underlying investments.  The potential risks to hedge-fund investors are greater
because of the funds’ opacity and their  compensation structure ,
which encourages managers to bet big and grab a share of any
profits. Many hedge funds hold thinly traded or illiquid
investments, making it impossible for investors to withdraw
their money on short notice. Rules should require hedge funds to
spell this out.  Their advertising materials should also be subject to
outside review, perhaps by the  Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority , the self-policing organization for the brokerage
industry, which already has a mechanism for reviewing  private
placements .  Not Easy  Getting any of this done won’t be easy. The July  deadline 
for the SEC to revise the rules that now bar hedge-fund
advertising has come and gone. Complicating matters is the
planned resignation on Dec. 14 of SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro ,
who never pressed for the appropriate oversight of hedge-fund
advertising. Her departure leaves the five-person commission
split between two Democrats who favor regulating the ads and two
Republicans who don’t. The Obama administration can break the
deadlock by naming a fifth commissioner who understands the
stakes.  Markets benefit when smart oversight enhances transparency
and promotes integrity. Allowing unfettered hedge-fund
advertising would be a significant move in the opposite
direction. Undermining trust in such a manner can make markets
less appealing to investors and raise the cost of capital, the
opposite of Congress’s intent when it passed the JOBS Act. The
SEC has a duty to write the necessary regulations to safeguard
the investing public.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 