-- Medical School Students Shun Primary Care as Demand Rises
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-12-04T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/medical-school-students-shun-primary-care-as-demand-rises.html
More than three-quarters of U.S.
medical students continue to shun primary care for higher-paying
specialties, setting the stage for a shortage of doctors as the
population ages and health care expands, a  study  found.  Among medical residents who aren’t planning a career in
surgery or pediatrics, 22 percent said they expect to go into
internal medicine or primary care with the rest planning on
fields like cardiology or dermatology, a study published today
in the Journal of the  American Medical Association  found.  About 20 to 25 percent of students have chosen primary care
in the past 10 years, down from about 50 percent in the early
1990s, said Colin West, co-author of the study. If the trend
continues, the U.S. could be  short  52,000 primary care doctors
in 12 years as an aging population requires more complex care
and more people get coverage under the health-care law, a study
published last month in the Annals of Family Medicine found.  “The concern many of us have is that as the  baby boomers 
get older and demand continues to increase, it is going to
become progressively more difficult for these patients to find
physicians,” said West, who practices internal medicine at the
 Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,  Minnesota . “This could be a barrier
to achieving the main goal of health reform of creating greater
access to health care.”  Ignoring Incentives  Under the 2010  Affordable Care Act , an additional 30
million Americans are expected to get health insurance through
an expansion of states’ Medicaid programs and newly created
health insurance exchanges. The law has tried to address the
increase in demand by boosting reimbursement rates to primary
care doctors. Still, those  incentives  haven’t been enough to
entice most medical students, West said.  Salary disparities between primary care doctors and
specialists are a major reason for the gap, West said. The
average annual pay for a doctor practicing internal medicine is
about $219,500 compared to $415,900 for a gastroenterologist,
$422,900 for cardiologists, and $386,000 for a dermatologist,
according to a 2011 report by the  American Medical Group
Association , based in Alexandria, Virginia.  The study today looked at survey results from 16,781 third-
year medical residents who were on track to go into non-
surgical, adult medicine. Of those, about 3,605 said they plan
to pursue a career in general internal medicine or primary care.
Even among students who were in a residency program focused on
primary care, less than half said they planned to continue
studying primary care medicine in their training fellowship.  The survey also showed that women were more likely than men
to go into general medicine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  