-- Eletropaulo Profit Outlook Exceeds Analysts: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-12-04T12:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/eletropaulo-profit-outlook-exceeds-analysts-corporate-brazil.html
Eletropaulo Metropolitana
Eletricidade de Sao Paulo ,  Brazil ’s largest power distributor,
is expecting profit to drop less than some analysts estimate
after rates were cut to make manufacturers more competitive.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, known as Ebitda, will fall 30 percent to 35
percent on an annual basis after regulators cut Eletropaulo
rates by 9.3 percent in July, Chief Executive Officer Britaldo Soares said in an interview. Analysts expect Ebitda to drop 62
percent in 2012 and a 15 percent decline in 2013, according to
data  compiled  by Bloomberg.  The Eletropaulo rate cut, which was bigger than analysts
anticipated, was the first step in a broader drive by President
 Dilma Rousseff  to force utilities to reduce power bills. Her
plan, which was unveiled in September, wiped out more than $10
billion in the market value of power companies. The stocks pared
losses last week after Brazil boosted compensation for companies
that cut prices now in exchange for renewing contracts set to
expire through 2017.  “I don’t think anybody disagrees with the fact that
something had to be done with regards to the costs of energy,”
Soares said in a Nov. 30 interview at the company’s headquarters
in Barueri, Brazil. “Because of the way it was announced, the
markets were surprised and reacted very badly to the
uncertainties that were put on the table.”  Eletrobras Gains  State-run  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , or Eletrobras,
as Brazil’s largest generator is known, led the gains by power
companies last week after the government raised compensation by
9.87 billion reais ($4.7 billion) to 29.87 billion reais.  “The government is seeking a negotiating angle,” Gabriel
Salas, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a telephone
interview from  New York . “It’s making the transition to the new
rules more benign.”  Eletrobras, based on Rio de Janeiro, has dropped 64 percent
this year, Sao Paulo-based Cesp fell 43 percent and Eletropaulo
is down 62 percent. Brazil’s benchmark stock index has gained
2.6 percent in the same period.  Eletropaulo was ordered by the electricity regulator to cut
rates as part of a regular review taken every four years.
Eletropaulo and generator  AES Tiete SA (GETI4) , both of which are
controlled by Arlington, Virginia-based AES Corp., won’t be
immediately affected by the renegotiation of contract terms and
prices because they don’t have any concessions expiring before
2017, Soares said. Eletropaulo shares rose 1 percent to 13.84
reais at 10:50 a.m. in  Sao Paulo .  Unhappy Shareholders  Eletrobras, which had the biggest weekly gain since
September 1998 last week, voted in a shareholder meeting
yesterday to accept the government renewal terms. Companies have
until today to say whether they will agree to cut rates or
return contracts.  Not all shareholders are happy with the sweetened
compensation offer.  “The country is being very harmed by interference in the
markets,” Joao Antonio Lian, the representative of Eletrobras
minority shareholder Fundo Nueva Sumatra, which voted against
the government’s terms, said in an interview after the investor
meeting yesterday in Brasilia. “You already have people abroad
saying that Brazil is on its way to become a  Venezuela  or an
 Argentina . Never in history has the value of public companies
been so damaged.”  Investments  Shareholders of  Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo  voted not to
renew three concessions worth 1.76 billion reais in a meeting
yesterday, according to a regulatory filing. Cia. de Transmissao
de Energia Eletrica Paulista shareholders, which also met
yesterday, agreed to the terms.  Concern that government intervention will reduce earnings
probably will prompt shareholders to demand higher returns for
new investments and projects, Eletropaulo’s Soares said.  “Certainly with all these uncertainties, with all this
noise, the cost of financing has increased somewhat,” he said.
“It’s reasonable to say that we may see an increase in the cost
of equity and the cost of debt.”  The move by the government to make the renewal terms more
favorable may help utility shares regain some more of their
losses, said Rafael Dias, an analyst at Banco do Brasil SA.  “It’s still early to price this in,” he said. “But it’s
a first step in the sense that the government also realizes that
it can’t harm companies that much.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  