-- EON Expands in Turkey Through Asset Swap Deal With Verbund
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-12-04T12:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/eon-expands-in-turkey-through-asset-swap-deal-with-verbund-2-.html
E.ON SE (EOAN)  and  Verbund AG (VER) , Germany and
 Austria ’s biggest utilities, agreed to swap power-generation
assets in  Turkey  and Germany in a deal valued at about 1.5
billion euros ($2 billion).  EON, based in Dusseldorf, will take Verbund’s 50 percent
stake in Turkish power producer Enerjisa Enerji AS in exchange
for EON’s interest in eight hydroelectric power plants in
Germany, according to a statement today.  EON wants to expand in Brazil and Turkey where energy
demand is expected to grow faster than in Europe. Enerjisa, a
venture with Turkey’s  Haci Omer Sabanci Holding AS (SAHOL)  in which
Verbund bought a stake for $326.2 million in 2007, has plans for
8,000 megawatts of power capacity in Turkey by 2020 and a 10
percent share of the generation market.  “This transaction gives us a superb platform for value-
enhancing growth outside our markets in  Europe ,” Johannes Teyssen, chief executive officer of E.ON, said today in a
statement. “In Sabanci, we’ve found a partner that has unique
market knowledge and goals that are as ambitious as ours.”  The interests in the German hydroelectric plants represent
351 megawatts of generating capacity and the deal will give
Verbund a 100 percent holding in the units.  The deal is valued “around mid-value between 1 billion
euros and 2 billion euros,” Teyssen said in an interview today.  Reinforce Position  “With this transaction, Verbund reinforces its position in
Germany, its most important international market, and in its
core technology hydropower generation,” the Austrian company
said in a statement yesterday.’  EON and Sabanci will invest as much as 4 billion euros in
Enerjisa to meet the power capacity target,
Selahattin Hakman, chairman of the Istanbul-based joint venture,
said today in an interview in Istanbul.  “Enerjisa plans investment in the Turkish government’s
asset sales in power grids and  power plants ,” Hakman said. The
venture will bid in a government auction for the operational
rights to the Gediz power grid in western Turkey, he said.  Enerjisa, which currently has 1,700 megawatts of power
capacity in Turkey, also plans to undertake wind and solar power
investments in Turkey as well as expand abroad, Hakman said.  The joint venture, which aims to increase the number of
power grid customers to 6 million from 3.5 million at a grid
around the capital city of Ankara, may consider bidding in
auctions for Istanbul’s Asian side and southern Turkish Toroslar
grids should it fail to win the Gediz grid, Hakman said.  The deal is scheduled to close in the first quarter of 2013
and is subject to an antitrust review, according to the
companies.  Second Time  The agreement marks the second time Verbund, Europe’s
fourth-biggest producer of hydropower, has taken over E.ON
plants in  Germany . It bought 13 hydropower stations along the
Inn River in southern Germany for more than 1 billion euros in
2009.  Enerjisa Enerji, Turkey’s second biggest non-state energy
producer, was set up last year with 3.5 billion lira ($2
billion) of capital after a reorganization of businesses owned
by Verbund and Sabanci Holding.  Enerjisa, which had 3.7 billion liras of sales in 2011, has
about 1,700 megawatts of generating capacity, through its
production unit Enerjisa Enerji Uretim AS. The company has 2,000
megawatts of capacity under construction and 1,500 megawatts
under development, according to E.ON.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net ;
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  