-- Level Global’s Ganek an Insider Co-Conspirator, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-12-04T18:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/level-global-co-founder-ganek-a-co-conspirator-u-s-says.html
Level Global Investors LP co-founder
David Ganek was described by a prosecutor as a co-conspirator in
an insider-trading scheme that allegedly involved his fellow
hedge-fund co-founder Anthony Chiasson.  The government made its claim yesterday in  Manhattan 
federal court during a hearing outside the jury’s presence in
Chiasson’s trial. At issue was whether jurors should be shown
e-mails that involve Ganek, who started Level Global with
Chiasson in 2003 after they worked at Steven A. Cohen’s SAC
Capital Advisors LP. The judge in the case said he will decide
later if he will allow the U.S. to show the jury the evidence.  “There are a number of facts in the record already showing
that Ganek is a co-conspirator,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Antonia Apps told U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan during
the hearing. “I will point out in e-mails and IMs, they are
objecting to, that Ganek is in that evidence.”  Chiasson, 39, and Todd Newman, a former portfolio manager
at  Stamford , Connecticut-based Diamondback Capital Management
LLC, are on trial for allegedly trading on inside information in
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , based on illegal tips provided by
analysts who worked for them. Both men have pleaded not guilty.
Six former or current employees of Stamford-based SAC have been
tied to insider trading while working at that firm, including
three who have pleaded guilty, as part of the biggest
investigation of illegal tipping at hedge funds in U.S. history.  Ganek, 49, hasn’t been charged with a crime and the judge
didn’t rule on the U.S. contention that he is a co-conspirator.  Rejected Claims  Ganek’s lawyer rejected the prosecution claim and Greg
Morvillo, a lawyer for Chiasson, objected to the government’s
showing jurors the e-mails involving Ganek as part of their
questioning of Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis.  Adondakis, 41, who worked as a technology analyst for
Chiasson at the New York-based hedge fund, has pleaded guilty
and is cooperating with the U.S. He completed his testimony
yesterday at the trial.  Adondakis testified that on Aug. 11, 2008, he informed
Chiasson and Greg Brenner, a Level Global supervisor, that he
had obtained nonpublic information from one of his sources about
Round Rock, Texas-based Dell, which he said was also passed on
to Ganek that day, Apps said.  Executed Trades  Prosecutors alleged that, as a result of the tip, the hedge
fund executed trades in Dell stock, earning an illicit profit of
$53 million.  Apps also said Adondakis testified that he had spoken to
Chiasson and Brenner during an Aug. 27, 2008, conference call,
in which Adondakis, who was on vacation, passed on final Dell
earnings information a day before the company issued its
quarterly earnings announcement. Adondakis testified Ganek was
on a telephone call during which the information was relayed.  “Those are a lot of circumstantial facts showing Mr. Ganek
was provided with the actual numbers and had sufficient
circumstantial evidence to show that he knew those numbers, that
you can’t ordinarily get, that the numbers would have had to
come from an inside source,” Apps said in court.  John Carroll, a lawyer for Ganek, said in an e-mailed
statement that “more relevant is the testimony from the
government’s star witness that David Ganek was not told about
inside information, and the fact that after a two-year
investigation my client has not been charged by anyone with
doing anything wrong.”  Wasn’t Public  During the hearing outside the jury’s presence, Morvillo
argued that Adondakis hasn’t implicated Ganek or indicated the
fund’s co-founder was aware the information he’d received wasn’t
public.  Morvillo noted that Reid Weingarten, another lawyer for
Chiasson, closely questioned Adondakis yesterday about whether
Ganek was aware the information provided for the fund’s August
2008 Dell trade was based on inside information.  Weingarten asked Adondakis if, during the August 2008
telephone call he had with Chiasson, Ganek and Brenner, he had
revealed that his source was a Dell insider.  “What if anything did you tell Mr. Ganek? Did you discuss
your source?” Weingarten asked Adondakis.  “No, I didn’t discuss it with Mr. Ganek, but I did
disclose it prior, to Mr. Chiasson,” Adondakis said.  “Did you disclose your source on that phone call?”
Weingarten asked.  “No, I did not disclose the source,” he testified.  David Pitofsky, a lawyer for Brenner, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment about the case.  Data Sheet  At another point, Weingarten yesterday asked Adondakis if
he knew that Ganek wasn’t even in the office on Aug. 11, 2008,
the day that the witness said he watched Chiasson and Brenner
walk his data sheet on Dell trades into Ganek’s office.  “Isn’t it true that you now know on Aug. 11 that David
Ganek was not in his office receiving the documents that you
talked about on direct and cross but rather was up in the
Hamptons?” Weingarten asked.  “I don’t know where he was on that day and I’m recanting
the details that I remember, and I don’t know--,” Adondakis
said.  The judge interrupted Adondakis, “You are recanting them?
Are you recounting or recanting?”  “I’m sorry,” Adondakis replied, “I’m recounting, I’m
just trying to tell you what I remember.”  Diamondback Capital  Adondakis told jurors he obtained and shared nonpublic
information about Dell from his friend, Jesse Tortora, who
worked as a Diamondback Capital Management analyst. Adondakis
and Tortora, who has also pleaded guilty and testified at the
trial, told jurors the Dell tips were provided by a mutual
acquaintance, Sandeep ‘Sandy’ Goyal. Goyal has also pleaded
guilty and testified at the trial.  Morvillo argued at the hearing outside the jury’s presence
that the e-mails and evidence sought by prosecutors shouldn’t be
allowed into the case.  “There is a question of whether or not Mr. Ganek is
actually a conspirator in this situation, after Mr. Adondakis
said he didn’t know the source on Dell,” Morvillo said. “I
don’t see how he is a co-conspirator. There has been no
evidence,” Morvillo said, adding later, “You can’t have
insider trading without knowing the sources.”  Last week, Weingarten, who once represented WorldCom Inc.
Chairman Bernard Ebbers, convicted of masterminding one of the
biggest frauds in U.S. history, asked Adondakis what he told
Ganek about the tips he’d obtained from Tortora and Goyal about
Dell revenue and gross margin figures ahead of the company’s
public announcement.  Dell Source  “What if anything did you tell Mr. Ganek about Sandy
Goyal’s source within Dell?” Weingarten asked.  “I never told him about it,” Adondakis said.  Weingarten showed Adondakis more of the memos, saying
“Well, you made assertions to the FBI that ‘the Level Global
fund and Radar fund were performing low, Chiasson and Ganek
decided to make trades based on the information obtained from
Goyal’ didn’t you say that?”  “I’m not sure what you’re reading off of and I don’t
remember saying that,” Adondakis said.  “Did you implicate Mr. Chiasson in insider trading?”
Weingarten asked.  “Yes,” Adondakis said.  “And what about Mr. Ganek?” Weingarten asked.  “I don’t know about Mr. Ganek,” Adondakis said.  Sullivan didn’t rule yesterday on whether he would find
Ganek a co-conspirator, and instead asked both prosecutors and
defense lawyers to submit court papers to him on the issue last
night after court concluded.  ‘Important Threshold’  “This is a pretty important threshold to cross, which is
whether or not Mr. Ganek is in fact a member of the
conspiracy,” Sullivan said. “So I have to make that finding
before I’m going to let those statements in.”  Adondakis is the third cooperating witness to testify at
the trial in a group of six men, including analysts for hedge
funds, who have pleaded guilty to swapping illegal tips from
insiders at technology firms as part of the insider-trading
scheme.  “There are literally hundreds and hundreds of exhibits in
this case,” the judge told prosecutors.  “Marshal them. Let me know which are the ones that support
an inference of Ganek being a co-conspirator and I will look at
them,” Sullivan said, adding he will let Morvillo file a
response on behalf of Chiasson.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-cr-00124, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  