-- Hewlett-Packard Sues Chunghwa Alleging Fixed LCD Prices
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-12-04T19:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/hewlett-packard-sues-chunghwa-alleging-fixed-lcd-prices.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the world’s
second-largest maker of personal computers, accused  Chunghwa
Picture Tubes (2475)  Ltd. and Tatung Company of America Inc. in a
lawsuit of fixing prices of liquid-crystal display screens.  The alleged conspiracy cost Hewlett-Packard more than $1
billion in damages from overcharges for the screens, which the
company purchased through its Singapore unit and a Taiwan-based
procurement service for use in computers destined for consumers
in the U.S. and elsewhere, according to an antitrust complaint
filed in federal court in San Francisco.  Hewlett-Packard claimed that Chunghwa, Tatung and other LCD
makers conspired to set prices and restrict output for panels
from 1998 to 2006. Hewlett-Packard negotiated prices with the
companies in the U.S. and paid more as a result of the
conspiracy, according to the lawsuit. The company is seeking
treble damages, according to the complaint filed Nov. 30.  The  Palo Alto , California-based company said Nov. 20 that
it’s taking an $8.8 billion writedown related to alleged
falsified accounting at Autonomy Corp., the software maker it
acquired last year.  Makers of liquid crystal display panels used in computers,
notebooks and televisions have faced criminal and civil cases
alleging a global conspiracy to fix product prices. A U.S.
Justice Department criminal investigation of LCD price fixing
led to guilty pleas by LG Display Co., Sharp Corp, and a former
Chunghwa Picture chief executive officer. The companies agreed
in 2008 and 2009 to pay $585 million in criminal fines. Taoyuan,
Taiwan-based Chungwha’s fine was $65 million.  Panel Purchasers  The case led to lawsuits by panel purchasers. At least
seven Japanese, Taiwanese and South Korean panel makers settled
buyers’ civil claims late last year. Sharp and Samsung
Electronics Co. were among those who agreed to pay $927 million
in settlements reached in December. Chunghwa’s share of the
settlement was $5.3 million, according to court filings.  Hewlett-Packard dropped an LCD price fixing lawsuit against
 AU Optronics Corp. (2409)  last month, according to court filings.  Chunghwa slumped 2.2 percent to NT$0.90 at the close of
trading in Taipei, the biggest decline since Nov. 16. The
company’s spokesman Chiang Chen-Chi said by phone today it is
studying the matter and couldn’t immediately respond.  A voice-mail message left at Tatung’s offices in  Long
Beach ,  California , seeking comment on the lawsuit wasn’t
immediately returned.  China’s  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  is the largest maker of personal
computers, according to market research firm Gartner Inc.  The case is Hewlett-Packard Co. v. Chunghwa Picture Tubes
Ltd., 12-06085, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  