-- Ex-IRA Man Losing Home Shows Ireland’s Banking Future
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-12-04T13:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/ex-ira-man-losing-home-shows-ireland-s-banking-future-mortgages.html
Few people represent the extremes of
Ireland’s recent history more than Thomas McFeely.  By 2008, the 63-year-old had transformed himself from Irish
Republican Army hunger striker in  Belfast  to millionaire
property developer in Dublin. Then the real estate bubble
popped. Now bankrupt and facing criticism after residents of one
of the properties he developed were forced to move because of
fire-safety concerns, McFeely last month lost a battle to keep
his home in one of the Irish capital’s most affluent areas.  “It is the latest episode of the unfortunate situation
that has befallen the country,” Justice John Hedigan told the
Dublin courtroom as the Irish government seized the property.
“There’s nothing I can do.”  Such rulings will become increasingly familiar in Ireland
as one of the biggest property bubbles in European history
unwinds, a crisis masked this year by falling bond yields as
investors bet that the worst is over. Yet for Irish banks, whose
losses forced the government to follow  Greece  in seeking a
bailout, the true cost of the debacle is about to hit.  “It’s the year when the world has to change, in the way we
deal with this problem,” said Garry Stran, head of the arrears
unit in  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the nation’s largest mortgage
lender. “This time next year, when we’re looking back, we
should have an absolute clear line of sight that we have
restructured a significant number of people.”  Debt Deals  Lenders that were bailed out by taxpayers and are owned by
the state are looking at a previously unthinkable mix of
repossessions and debt forgiveness as they confront the specter
of loans that will never be repaid.  They face the following conundrum: Move too quickly and
aggressively in dealing with bad loans and risk cratering the
banking system again and imperiling any recovery in real-estate
prices, at least in Dublin. Move too slowly, and a debt-laden
economy will struggle to grow as borrowers rein in spending.  Irish  household debt  had tripled to 214 billion euros ($279
billion) when the real estate market collapsed in 2008, from 75
billion euros in 2002, according to Dublin-based  Goodbody
Stockbrokers . As a share of  household income , debt has risen to
210 percent from about 117 percent. That’s about twice the
average in the euro area.  Four years since the collapse, about 30 percent of Irish
home loans by value, including so-called buy-to-let mortgages
for rental properties, are in arrears or have been modified.  ‘Waiting Game’  Banks have largely held off on repossessions or debt
forgiveness after taxpayers were forced into a 64 billion-euro
rescue of the financial industry.  While they have set aside about 6.4 billion euros of
provisions for expected bad loans, actual write-offs in the 30
months through June were 250 million euros, according to
Goodbody Stockbrokers.  “Banks have been playing a waiting game, hoping things
improve,”  Lars Frisell , chief economist at Ireland’s central
bank, told reporters in Dublin on Nov. 28. “That’s not
happened. It’s time to stop procrastinating, to find out where
the losses are and crystalize them. Take the losses.”  That means more scenes at the courts like those on Nov. 19
at the case of McFeely, whose bankruptcy affected more than just
his own 5,100 square-foot (474 square-meter) mansion in Dublin’s
leafy Ballsbridge district, the former German embassy.  The National Asset Management Agency, set up by the
government to take over bad loans from banks, seized his home
and put it on the market for 3 million euros.  Hunger Strike  McFeely served a prison sentence for the attempted murder
of a policeman, possession of weapons and a post-office robbery,
according to the  BBC . In 1980, McFeely spent 53 days on hunger
strike in a Northern Ireland prison as IRA members sought to be
recognized as political prisoners rather than terrorists. Ten
died in a second hunger strike in 1981. He left the republican
movement after his release in 1989, the  BBC  reported.  At the height of the Celtic Tiger boom, McFeely helped
develop the sprawling Priory Hall housing estate on the
outskirts of north Dublin. A year ago, about 250 residents were
forced to move out because of fire-safety concerns. They’ve yet
to move back into their homes.  McFeely declined to comment on Priory Hall or the
repossession of his home when approached by reporters outside
the court.  Most borrowers will keep their properties, as banks roll
out plans to avoid wide-scale repossessions and forgive vast
quantities of debt.  ‘Massive’ Crisis  “By any definition, the financial crisis in Ireland in
general and the mortgage crisis as part of that is massive,”
said Jeremy Masding, chief executive officer of Dublin-based
Permanent TSB, the largest mortgage lender during the boom. He
said the bank won’t talk about writing off debt before “we have
exhausted all our efforts” on other solutions.  In some cases, borrowers will be encouraged to trade down
to smaller homes, while the central bank is pushing the idea of
split mortgages, where portions of loans will be put on hold
until the person’s circumstances improve.  For other debtors and banks, though, the future may lie in
negotiating forgiveness.  In one of the few cases to go public so far, nurse Laura
White in April told national broadcaster RTE that Bank of
Ireland Plc had forgiven 152,000 euros of her home loan after
she agreed to repay the Dublin-based bank 18,000 euros over six
years and surrender her house.  Bank of Ireland declined a request for an interview with
executives on strategies for dealing with arrears.  Being Sensible  A 15-minute stroll away, at rival Allied Irish, bankers are
preparing to write off debt on a much wider scale than
previously. A 2,000-strong new unit is “cranking up” to deal
with troubled home loans, said Stran, who is responsible for
managing unpaid mortgage debt at the bank.  “We are absolutely in a place that says we will write off
debt if that’s the right thing to do,” Stran said in a Nov. 14
interview at the bank’s headquarters in south Dublin. “That’s
something we will do on a commercially sensible basis, but we
are not into wholesale debt forgiveness.”  Failing to reach deals will push more borrowers and banks
into new insolvency mechanisms under laws scheduled to be
enacted by the end of this month. For unsecured debt, borrowers
can seek to have as much as 20,000 euros written off even
without approval from lenders. Larger amounts of unsecured debt
can be written off if the majority of lenders agree.  ‘Diamond Bazooka’  While “300,000-euro diamond bazooka” engagement rings
will have to be sold by people seeking to have debt forgiven,
some other assets may be kept, Justice Minister Alan Shatter
said in November.  Shatter was willing to reflect on the value of “a single
item of jewelry of what I describe as emotional significance,”
he told parliament on Nov. 6. “It may be a modest ring someone
has inherited from a deceased grandmother or mother.”  Troubled borrowers will be able to seek writedowns of as
much as 3 million euros on secured mortgage debt in out-of-court
settlements. Yet the banks hold a trump card because 65 percent
of creditors have to approve any agreement, drawing fire from
groups that say lenders will have too much power.  “Despite outcry from many quarters, lenders still have the
final say on any debt-management proposals from consumers,”
said Paul Joyce, a policy researcher at  the Free Legal Advice
Center . He criticized the lack of “an independent arbiter to
assess whether those proposals are reasonable or not.”  Voluntary Bankruptcy  Where deals can’t be reached, banks can repossess homes and
bankrupt individuals. Some borrowers may even choose bankruptcy,
as they will exit the process debt-free after three years under
the new proposals. The current bankruptcy period is 12 years.  Shatter said on Nov. 21 he expects 3,000 bankruptcy
applications in the first year of new insolvency laws and
systems, compared with 30 people declared bankrupt in 2011.  Either way, banks are going to end up controlling more
homes than ever before. They  held  just 961 owner-occupied homes
at the end of June, according to the central bank. Bank of
Ireland CEO Richie Boucher told lawmakers a month ago that the
lender’s “primary focus” is to keep people in their homes, yet
“our policy is to maximize the recovery of monies owed to us.”  “Sadly there will be those people who don’t want to engage
with us or those people who clearly, whatever happens, will
never be able to afford this, even if we restructure,” said
Stran at AIB. “There will be a number of properties which we
have to take into possession, either voluntarily or forced, at a
scale which this organization has never seen before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 