-- Ex-Rochdale Trader Arrested in Apple Stock Case
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-12-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/ex-rochdale-trader-arrested-in-1-billion-apple-stock-case-1-.html
A former trader with Rochdale
Securities LLC  was charged with wire fraud in connection with
an unauthorized $1 billion purchase of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  stock that
backfired, costing his company $5 million, the U.S. said.  David Miller, 40, appeared before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Holly Fitzsimmons in Bridgeport,  Connecticut , yesterday after
surrendering to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, prosecutors
said. He was released on $300,000 bail, they said.  The  Stamford , Connecticut-based brokerage has been
struggling to survive and hold on to its staff after Miller’s
trade, made about the time of the Cupertino, California-based
technology company’s October earnings release.  “As is so often seen in these types of cases, the alleged
criminal conduct of Miller was for personal gain at the expense
and detriment of others,” FBI agent Kimberly Mertz said
yesterday in a statement. “Manipulating and orchestrating stock
transactions in such a manner is a very serious criminal offense
and its impact can be both devastating and lasting.”  Wire fraud carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in
prison, according to prosecutor.  Kenneth “Casey” Murphy, Miller’s lawyer at Simon &
Partners LLP, declined to comment in an e-mail.  Rescue Sought  Rochdale’s executives are seeking a deal to rescue the 37-
year-old firm, either through a cash injection of about $5
million or a merger with another broker.  The government alleged Miller misled the brokerage on Oct.
25 by placing an order for 1.6 million shares of Apple that he
said was for a customer. The customer claimed to only have
sought 1,625 shares, according to the complaint. The brokerage
was left shouldering a loss on the 1.6 million shares, according
to the complaint.  Miller was also accused of misleading another brokerage,
which wasn’t named in the complaint, on Oct. 25, causing it to
take a short position on 500,000 Apple shares. The brokerage was
able to trade out of the position at a profit, according to the
complaint.  The case is U.S. v. Miller, 3:12-mj-288, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (Bridgeport).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in  New York  at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  