-- Ex-Soros Manager to Start Distressed Fund for Europe
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r
-- 2012-12-04T17:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/ex-soros-manager-to-start-distressed-fund-for-europe.html
William Seibold, a former founding
member of Soros Fund Management LLC’s distressed unit, plans to
start a fund to invest in troubled European companies.  Recipero Capital will provide capital to middle-market
businesses, primarily in  Germany ,  France ,  Italy  and the U.K.,
starting in the second half of next year, Seibold said in a
telephone interview. He expects to have seven people working
with him when the fund opens.  Seibold, 50, is currently in discussions with potential
investors for early allocations, he said. He is seeking 800
million euros ($1 billion). The firm will be based in  Europe .  “The European banking system is in difficulty,” he said.
“European businesses, especially in the middle market, are far
more heavily financed by banks. The banks need support.”  Hedge funds  including Marathon Asset Management LP have
also targeted distressed opportunities in Europe. Hedge-fund
startups increased in the first half of the year to 549 and
industrywide capital rose to a record $2.19 trillion in the
third quarter, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research
Inc.  Distressed hedge funds  rose 8.3 percent this year through
October, compared with a 2.6 percent gain for all strategies on
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In 2007, Seibold started the now defunct distressed hedge
fund Noroton Capital Management LLC, which had been backed by
RMF Hedge Fund Ventures, a Man Group Plc fund that provides
startup money to new funds. During the financial crisis in 2008,
RMF pulled its investment and Seibold was forced to close
Noroton and return capital by the end of 2009, he said.  Before Noroton, Seibold co-founded Camulos Capital LP with
a former colleague from Soros, he said. Before Camulos, Seibold
worked at Soros on the distressed unit from 2002 to 2005. Before
Soros, he invested in U.S. and European distressed debt with ING
Group in London from 1994 to 1997.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Nathaniel Baker in New York at 
 nbaker14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  