-- Texas Oils Plummet Most in Two Weeks on Limited Pipeline Space
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-12-04T21:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/texas-oils-plummet-most-in-two-weeks-on-limited-pipeline-space.html
Oil produced in western  Texas  fell
the most in two weeks as rising production in the region
overwhelmed pipeline capacity.  West Texas Intermediate crude delivered in Midland, Texas,
dropped $5 to a $15-a-barrel discount to the same grade
delivered in Cushing,  Oklahoma , as of 3:21 p.m.  New York  time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. West Texas Sour,
another crude grade produced in West Texas, fell $6 to a
discount of $17.50 a barrel.  It was the deepest discount for both grades since Nov. 20,
when they reached a record of $20 a barrel below the U.S.
benchmark grade.  “The Permian Basin is just awash with crude oil and
supplies continue to increase, with a lack of pipeline capacity
available until the first quarter,” said  Andy Lipow , president
of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Texas oil  production  increased 33 percent to an average of
2.1 million barrels a day in September from a year earlier,
Energy Department data show. New drilling techniques have
unlocked oil in shale rock formations, boosting the state’s
output to the highest level since 1988.  WTI crude delivered at Midland has historically traded less
than $1 below the Cushing price, reflecting the transportation
costs between the two delivery points. This year, the oil has
traded at an average discount of $3.43 because of pipeline
constraints.  Line Projects  Several projects are under way to relieve the bottleneck.
 Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP)  plans to reverse the flow of the
Longhorn pipeline to move crude from western Texas to Houston
early next year.  Sunoco Logistics Partners LP (SXL)  plans to complete
expansions in the Permian totaling 110,000 barrels a day in the
first quarter, Chief Executive Michael Hennigan said during the
company’s earnings call Nov. 8.  In  Canada , light oil prices strengthened against WTI.
Midale, a light oil produced in Saskatchewan, rose $2 to a $13
discount, while Light Sweet Blend rose 75 cents to a $6.75
discount, according to Net Energy Inc., a Calgary oil broker.  Syncrude, a light oil processed from oil-sands bitumen,
rose $1 to a 50 cent-a-barrel premium, the broker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  