-- Exchanges to Ask SEC to Delay Audit-Trail Deadline
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-12-04T01:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/exchanges-to-ask-sec-to-delay-deadline-for-audit-trail-program.html
U.S. stock and options market
operators and an industry regulator plan to ask the Securities
and Exchange Commission to extend the deadline for when they
must submit a plan for a comprehensive market oversight system.  The so-called consolidated audit trail, one of SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro ’s flagship projects, would track all securities
orders and trades in the U.S. from start to completion and give
the agency and other regulators a powerful system to monitor the
markets. The exchanges and Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority said they would seek an eight-month delay to December
from April next year, according to a  document  they published on
a website devoted to the initiative on Nov. 29.  The group said it wanted a later deadline because of the
“significant work and analysis that is required,” the document
said. It proposed a new timeline for construction of the
consolidated audit trail, or CAT.  “The delays that are being asked for are valid since it is
a heavy lift with a lot of nuances and moving parts,” Edward Boyle, a former executive at trading firm Getco LLC who earlier
ran the U.S. options business at  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , said in an e-
mail. “If we don’t allow the time for all participants to be
ready, it will fall short and likely never be done properly.”  The agency, which adopted a rule requiring exchanges to
develop the consolidated audit trail in July, has said it will
help regulators probe for market manipulation, improve their
enforcement work and identify the causes of market disasters
like the May 6, 2010, flash crash in which the Dow Jones
Industrial Average briefly fell 9.2 percent. There are 13 equity
exchanges, 10 options markets and more than 200 broker-dealers
that execute stock trades away from public venues.  Flash Crash  The SEC proposed the CAT program within weeks of the flash
crash.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment
about the request for a delay.  Dozens of economists, financial professionals and data
technicians spent four months in 2010 after the flash crash
collecting and combining disparate data streams and order
information to analyze “just a few hours of trading on a single
day,” Schapiro  said  in July. That crunch gave rise to the audit
trail proposal.  The system will also help regulators study how the activity
of high-frequency traders affects the “quality and fairness”
of markets, she said.  Tracking Stocks  The U.S. has never had a system that tracks stock and
option orders from cradle to grave. The SEC began a market
oversight and surveillance system, known as MOSS, in the early
1980s because legislators were concerned that exchanges were
failing to do an adequate job monitoring trading, Edward Kwalwasser, New York-based senior counsel at Proskauer Rose LLP
and a former  New York  Stock Exchange and SEC official who worked
on MOSS, said in a phone interview in July.  The pilot program was dropped when exchanges and the
predecessor organization to Finra established methods to share
information and meet surveillance duties such as monitoring for
suspicious activity and pursuing  insider trading . Finra oversees
more than 4,300 U.S. brokers.  The SEC said in July its initial estimate that the audit
trail would cost $4 billion to build was no longer valid because
the requirements had changed after they were proposed and the
project could rely on existing data systems, which would save
money. The agency put off an analysis of the costs and benefits
until after the exchanges and Finra submit their plan.  Audit Trail  The document from the group of so-called self-regulatory
organizations, or SROs, said the  plan  must be guided by the need
to build a comprehensive  audit trail  with reporting requirements
and technology that reflect current trading practices. The
system must be able to handle increased volume, it said.  “The costs of implementing and operating the CAT should be
minimized to the extent possible,” with industry feedback taken
into account, the document said. “Existing reporting structures
and technology interfaces will be utilized where practicable.”  The SROs will publish a document this week to get feedback
on the feasibility and costs of the reporting requirements being
considered. The group is assessing whether to accept separate
bids for the administration and “processor/repository” duties
involving data handling and storage for the audit trail, it
said. The firms will issue an official request for bids in mid-
February, the group said.  Governance Committee  A meeting will be held in downtown  Manhattan  on Dec. 10 to
discuss the document being released this week, the group said.  The exchanges and Finra have a governance committee that’s
drafting the audit trail plan, a group examining costs and
funding, and a technical unit. It also has committees focused on
outreach and the expansion of the system to other products.  Incoming SEC Chairman Elisse Walter, who said in July she
“wholeheartedly and unreservedly” supports a comprehensive
audit trail, voted against the CAT rule, saying it didn’t go far
enough. She sought a more “prescriptive” system and one that
would track orders in real time instead of requiring data to be
submitted the next day, she  said . Walter criticized the way
orders would be tracked, how customers would be identified and
the standards to ensure the data gathered would be accurate.  The SEC approved the audit trail in a 3-2 vote. Republican
Commissioners Troy Paredes and Daniel Gallagher voted with
Schapiro, a political independent appointed by President  Barack Obama , while  Luis Aguilar  sided with fellow Democrat Walter.  Oversight Capabilities  The SEC is improving its oversight capabilities through two
other projects. It began implementing a system this year to
collect real-time quote, order and transaction data generated by
companies such as NYSE Euronext,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  CBOE
Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  and sold to banks and high-frequency traders.
Tradeworx Inc., a high-frequency firm and technology vendor, is
providing the platform to compile the data.  A system to allow regulators to track activity by the
largest traders is also being instituted. The rule, expected to
apply to about 400 firms, according to the SEC, requires traders
meeting the specified threshold to register with the agency and
use an identification code when they trade through brokers.
People or companies that trade at least 2 million shares or $20
million of securities in a day, or 20 million shares or $200
million in a month, are covered by that rule.  “CAT is a massive project but the SEC is already managing
to collect a lot more data so they can understand what’s
happening in the market and conduct investigations more
quickly,”  Reena Aggarwal , director of the Georgetown Center for
Financial Markets and Policy at  Georgetown University  in
 Washington , said in a phone interview. “This way the commission
can react immediately rather than wait months to get the data
and then analyze it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  