-- Facebook ‘Sponsored Stories’ Accord Wins Tentative OK
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-12-04T06:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/facebook-sponsored-stories-accord-wins-tentative-ok.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  persuaded a judge to
grant preliminary approval of a $20 million settlement of a
lawsuit claiming it used subscribers’ names without their
permission to advertise products in its “Sponsored Stories.”  Under the revised settlement, users can claim a $10
payment, and funds left over will go to advocacy groups. An
earlier settlement proposed by the company would have given
users no payment, while lawyers for plaintiffs would receive as
much as $10 million, according to filings in federal court in
San Francisco.  “The court is satisfied that the revisions to the terms of
the settlement are sufficient to warrant preliminary approval
under the applicable standards,” U.S. District Judge Richard Seeborg, who rejected the arlier proposal, said in an order
yesterday. He scheduled a June hearing to consider final
approval of the agreement.  Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking service,
was accused in a 2011 lawsuit of appropriating the names,
photographs and identities of users to advertise products
without their consent. “Sponsored Stories” was a “misleading
advertising scheme” using material posted by Facebook users on
their profile pages, according to the complaint.  The company called the claims “meritless” in a court
filing.  Revised Accord  The $20 million fund in the revised accord is enough to pay
$10 to 2 million users, of the more than 120 million who may be
eligible to file a claim. If so many of the users affected by
the practice seek the payment that dividing the $20 million
among them would provide less than $5 per user, all the money
could be donated to advocacy groups, according to court filings.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , also agreed to
revise its terms of usage so subscribers can more easily see
when they’re being shown as endorsers of products and games for
which they clicked a “like” button.  The revised settlement doesn’t spell out how much the
users’ lawyers will be paid; they must submit a fee request to
Seeborg for approval. The fees will come out of the settlement
fund, according to court filings.  The case is Fraley v. Facebook Inc., 11-cv-01726, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California ( San Jose ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  