-- How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Luxury Condo
-- B y   S t e p h e n   S m i t h
-- 2012-12-04T22:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/filtering-or-how-i-learned-to-stop-worrying-and-love-the-luxury-condo.html
With nine subway lines, downtown  Brooklyn , New York, has more rapid transit
than Chicago. You wouldn't know that looking at its parking requirements for new
development: four spots for every 10 units in buildings of any significant
size. Transit activists and urbanists were originally hopeful that the city would
eliminate the minimum requirements entirely for highly mass-transit-accessible
neighborhoods such as Harlem, Williamsburg and downtown Brooklyn. The proposed
reform, however, turned out to be a  tepid disappointment : Parking minimums in
downtown Brooklyn -- and only downtown Brooklyn -- would be lowered from four to
two spaces for every 10 units. Only affordable-housing developers would be
allowed to build completely transit-oriented buildings, relieved of the tens of
thousands of dollars it costs to build each parking space. Activists and developers have reason to feel let down. Amanda Burden is
celebrated as a progressive and headstrong chief city planner, but her
department's reforms are weak compared with those of cities as car-dependent as
 Sacramento ,  California , or  Buffalo , New York, which have eliminated or are
trying to eliminate off-street parking requirements entirely in at least small
sections of their downtown cores. But for Letitia James, a city council member from the Working Families Party
whose district includes part of downtown Brooklyn, even these meager reforms are
too much. She objected in particular to existing buildings being allowed to take
advantage of the new requirements and eliminate or redevelop some of their
existing parking. "They would turn it into luxury housing," she told the  New
York Times , saying that would not address the need for affordable housing in
Brooklyn. By dismissing new luxury construction as irrelevant to affordable housing,
James shows a misunderstanding of how housing markets interact and how the
effects of new luxury construction (or the lack thereof) ripple throughout
nearby neighborhoods. The would-be tenants of shiny new towers in downtown
Brooklyn aren't going to disappear from the borough if we don't allow new luxury
units to go up. They're just going to move farther into James's district. Downtown Brooklyn has already undergone tremendous demographic change, but
Crown Heights and Bedford-Stuyvesant, also within Brooklyn's 35th Council
District, are still on the frontier of change. If downtown Brooklyn does not
make room for more newcomers, it will simply price working-class residents out
of less trendy, historically black neighborhoods like these. When a housing
market is functioning properly, new luxury construction can not only prevent
this type of gentrification but also reverse it entirely, creating new
affordable housing units. Housing economists call it "filtering." Housing filtering is the gradual
decline of home values as structures age -- and with home values, prices and
rents -- and the new opportunities for low-cost housing that this affords. In
other words, with time, all housing eventually becomes affordable. Designs go
out of style, appliances age and new technologies such as central air
conditioning are not installed. Middle-class, single-family homes on the Lower
East Side were carved up into tenement apartments during the late 1800s, and
grand apartments across the city were divided into more reasonable one- and two-
bedroom units during the Great Depression. This concept might seem totally alien to New Yorkers today, though, who are
accustomed to multimillion-dollar renovated brownstones and elite prewar co-ops.
Because New York has allowed so little new construction after the passage of its
anti-urban 1961 zoning code, most of its housing stock is very old, and so the
 opposite of filtering  is occurring: gentrification. Rather than poor people
moving into rich people's old houses and apartments, as had been the pattern for
most of civilized history, gentrification is when the wealthy take the homes of
the poor. Sure, wealthy people would prefer to live in state-of-the-art buildings, with
central air conditioning and large windows. And in places that make room for
growth, such as  Chicago  or most middle-American suburbs, they do, because new
development is allowed and new construction is affordable. But New York has not allowed supply to keep up with demand, and so the
wealthy settle for old buildings, and the poor and middle classes are condemned
to long commutes and displacement from their old neighborhoods. The irony of James's position on growth in downtown Brooklyn is that it's her
core constituency, longtime black renters in Crown Heights and Bed-Stuy, who are
bearing the brunt of this housing mismatch. James and others worried about the growing housing affordability crisis in
the wealthiest U.S. cities should keep in mind that the newcomers are rich
enough to buy their way in, whether cities make room or not. The only question
is, are they going to buy new homes, or are they going to take yours? ( Stephen Smith , a writer based in  Brooklyn , New York who covers land use and
transportation, is a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow  him on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .