-- Finland to Test First Power Exports to Russia Next Year
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-12-04T11:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/finland-to-test-first-power-exports-to-russia-next-year.html
Finland  may for the first time test
electricity exports into Russia next year, Finnish grid company
Fingrid Oyj said.  “Early next year, we may carry out technical tests to make
sure exports function via the Vyborg station” that connects the
Finnish and Russian power networks, with dates and details still
to be confirmed, Juha Kekkonen, Fingrid’s executive vice
president, said yesterday in an interview in Helsinki.  Since high-voltage 400 kilovolt electricity transmission
from Russia to Finland started in 1982, the Nordic country has
imported more than 10 percent of its annual needs via four
converter stations of 350 megawatts each in Vyborg. The station
has never been used to ship electricity in the other direction,
due to technical restrictions.  One of the 350 megawatt units has been modified to make
Finnish power exports to  Russia  technically possible, while “we
still need to agree on commercial terms, the principles and
mechanisms for trading, capacity allocation and information
exchange, and it will take time for Russia to modify its
regulations and rules accordingly,” Kekkonen said.  Asymmetrical Regulation  Russia levies a capacity tariff of about 25 euros {$33) a
megawatt-hour for power exports during morning and afternoon
peak demand, which restricts shipments to Finland, and it may
also limit power flows in the other direction if two-way
electricity trading eventually happens, according to Fingrid.  “If Finland does not receive a capacity payment, if and
when it one day sells power to Russia, there will be a dead zone
where exports are unviable due to asymmetrical regulation,”
Kekkonen said.  Russian power for baseload delivery today cost 844.57
rubles ($27) a megawatt-hour in the Central, Ural and South
Hubs, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with 61.43 euros ($80) in Finland, according to data from the
Nord Pool Spot AS exchange.  Jussi Maekelae, senior analyst at SKM Market Predictor AS,
said Russia’s capacity payment is poised to hamper trade in
either direction.  “There will be a threshold of more than 20 euros for it to
become viable for either country to sell power to the other, as
a result of the capacity payment in addition to cross-border
tariffs,” he said today by phone from Helsinki.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  