-- Finnish Power Price Surge Fails to Boost Russian Exports
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-12-04T10:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/finnish-power-price-surge-fails-to-boost-russian-exports.html
A fivefold surge in Finnish power
prices has failed to trigger a boost in power exports from
Russia to  Finland , evidencing structural market differences,
analysts SKM Market Predictor AS said.  Today’s temperatures in Finland, as low as minus 13 degrees
Celsius according to CustomWeather Inc. data on Bloomberg, saw
power prices surge as high as 148.68 euros ($194) a megawatt-
hour for delivery between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. Helsinki time, and
to 198 euros yesterday afternoon. This pushed average prices for
around-the-clock baseload delivery yesterday and today to more
than 60 euros, the highest in nearly 10 months, compared with
35.89 euros year to date, according to  data  from the Nord Pool
Spot AS exchange in Oslo.  “In spite of the high prices, Russia has failed to boost
power exports, which illustrates a structural inertia that
results from differences in the two countries’ markets, and
causes price signals to be ignored,” Jussi Maekelae, senior
analyst at SKM Market Predictor, said today by phone from
Helsinki.  Power imports from  Russia , which met more than 10 percent
of Finnish demand in the past, dropped 64 percent in the first
10 months from a year earlier, Fingrid data show. Finland’s
eastern neighbor introduced a capacity tariff that meant it
hasn’t been viable to export electricity for most of the time
since August 2011.  “The structure of the tariff is such that Finnish prices
must surge for months, not merely days or weeks, to trigger
higher imports from Russia, which means that Finland can’t rely
on power from its eastern neighbor, and will face a squeezed
supply-demand balance during winter” when the 650-megawatt
Estlink-2 power cable to  Estonia  comes into operation early in
2014, Maekelae said.  Import dependence  Finland depends on electricity imports, which can cause
power prices to soar in case of demand surges or malfunctions in
plants or cross-border cables. Hourly power prices surged to
 1,400 euros  a megawatt-hour at the turn of 2009 and 2010,
according to data from the Nord Pool Spot exchange.  Russia’s OAO Inter RAO UES, the state-owned electricity
exporter, may suffer losses if it chooses to boost exports to
Finland on a daily or weekly basis in reaction to high prices,
since export volumes must be set before the Finnish power price
is published, Maekelae said.  The Russian company controls the commercially available
1,300-megawatt capacity on the link to Finland via its Finnish
subsidiary Rao Nordic Oy,  “Something needs to be done to improve communication
between the two power markets, and help price signals determine
flows in a more timely fashion,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  