-- Fiscal Cliff Plan Needs Revenue This Month, Baucus Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-12-04T16:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/fiscal-cliff-plan-needs-revenue-this-month-baucus-says.html
An agreement to avert the so-called
fiscal cliff must include up-front revenue “this month,”
Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  said.  “Once that revenue is locked in, we can then turn to
overhauling our tax code for the modern economy,” the Montana
Democrat said at a conference today in Washington.  The timing of tax increases is one of the divisions between
the two parties in their negotiations on the cliff, which is a
combination of more than $600 billion in spending cuts and tax
increases scheduled to take effect in January.  Baucus said he was confident that Congress would reach a
meaningful agreement and begin working to overhaul the tax code
and try to restrain the growth in health-care costs.  President  Barack Obama  has called for about $1 trillion in
tax increases for top earners that would begin taking effect
immediately and another $600 billion that would occur through an
overhaul of the U.S.  tax code .  In their proposal yesterday,  House Republicans  said they
would support $800 billion in additional revenue through a tax
overhaul that would lower rates. Their letter to Obama didn’t
specify whether any taxes would increase in 2013.  Bite Bullet  “We should not put off the hard decisions with gimmicks or
with triggers,” Baucus said at the conference, sponsored by the
Campaign to Fix the Debt, a bipartisan group that advocates
deficit reduction. “That’s what got us to this point in the
first place. It’s time to bite the bullet and make the tough
decisions, and make them now.”  Baucus said an agreement to avert the fiscal cliff could
spur business confidence.  “This is an opportunity, an opportunity to commit to a
balanced plan to bring our national debt back down to
sustainable levels,” he said.  Baucus also said changes should be phased in over time to
avoid slowing down the economic recovery.  “We cannot break the promise of Medicare and Social
Security,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  