-- Florida’s $230 Million Prison Contract Rejected by Judge
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J o r d a n   S e x t o n
-- 2012-12-05T00:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/florida-s-230-million-prison-contract-rejected-by-judge.html
Corizon Health Inc.’s five-year, $230
million contract to provide services for inmates in central and
northern  Florida  prisons was blocked after a judge ruled the
state Corrections Department entered into the deal illegally.  State Circuit Judge John Cooper in Tallahassee ruled today
that the Legislative Budget Commission broke the law when it
approved the department’s request to transfer $57.6 million
meant to pay the salaries and benefits of 1,837 state employees
to instead help fund the contract with Brentwood, Tennessee-
based Corizon.  “While the state of Florida does have authority to
privatize prison health care throughout the state, the full
Legislature must do so by passing the appropriate funding
mechanism specifically directed to that goal,” Cooper wrote.
“Authorizing and funding privatizing health services in
Florida’s prisons is the prerogative of the full Legislature and
not of that of the Legislative Budget Commission.”  Rick Scott, the former chief executive officer of Columbia
HCA Healthcare Corp., has made prison privatization a priority
since becoming Florida’s governor. The Republican promised
during his 2010 campaign to cut prisoner costs by $1 billion.
His office and the Florida Department of Corrections said they
would appeal the ruling.  Prison Budget  Florida Department of Corrections Deputy Secretary Mike
Crews said the decision could lead to a $90 million shortfall in
the agency’s budget over the next 18 months.  The ruling “will jeopardize other department needs and
legislative budget priorities, which could include additional
reductions and staffing and program services,” he said.  In September, the corrections department asked the 14-
member budget commission to authorize the transfer of $57.6
million from salary and benefits for prison health-care workers
to help fund the first six months of the contract with Corizon.  The spending panel, which is allowed to shift already
appropriated money within the budget, can’t create new policies.  AFSCME Florida and the Federation of Physicians and
Dentists/Alliance of Healthcare and Professional Employees sued
Sept. 14 in Leon County Circuit Court in Tallahassee, arguing
that the Corrections Department wasn’t authorized to privatize
inmate health care in 2012 and, additionally, that the
legislative panel overstepped its authority.  Union Comment  Alma Gonzalez, special counsel for AFSCME Florida, said the
decision sends a strong message to Scott’s office.  “He cannot play fast and loose with the Florida
constitution,” Gonzalez said.  Cooper, in his ruling, disagreed that the state didn’t have
the authority to contract with private vendors, both nonprofit
and for-profit, to provide health care.  Previously, the Legislature in 2011 authorized prison
health-care privatization in its annual general appropriations
act. A lawsuit against that action was declared moot in July by
Circuit Court Judge Kevin Carroll, who said the privatization
authority expired at the end of the fiscal year, June 30, 2012.  Prison health-care privatization isn’t the only legal
dispute unions have had with the Scott administration. Under the
governor’s direction, the Legislature altered state employee
pension benefits by requiring workers to contribute 3 percent of
their salaries to their retirement. AFSCME Florida challenged
the changes and won. Scott appealed, and the case is pending
before the Florida Supreme Court.  The prison case is Florida Public Employees Council 79 v.
Tucker, 37 2012 CA 003119 (Tallahassee).  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  