-- Fuji Heavy’s Subaru Studies Indiana Plant Addition
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   P i m m   F o x
-- 2012-12-05T00:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/fuji-heavy-s-subaru-studies-indiana-plant-addition.html
Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) ’s Subaru
unit is studying expanding its  Indiana  auto-assembly plant as
the  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  affiliate seeks to boost U.S. output to
curb currency losses and meet growing demand for its models.  The U.S. unit and its Tokyo-based parent are in discussions
to expand the Lafayette, Indiana, factory, Tom Doll, Subaru’s
U.S. executive vice president and chief operating officer, said
in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking Stock.” A
decision whether the plant will add assembly of Impreza cars or
Forester crossovers hasn’t been made, he said.  The combination of a high yen and expensive shipping costs
means “it becomes more difficult with production in  Japan  to
import those vehicles into the United States,” Doll said. “At
some point a decision could be made to bring further production
to the United States,” he said, without elaborating.  Fuji Heavy joins Japan’s Toyota,  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201)  and  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  in seeking further production
capacity in North America to stem losses related to the yen’s
persistent strength relative to the dollar. The U.S. currency’s
value has fallen about 25 percent against the yen in the past
five years, eroding the value of rising U.S. sales.  “With strong exposure to the U.S. market, Subaru sales
have benefited not only from the healthy recovery in the U.S.
market but also market share gains supported by new models,”
said  Ashvin Chotai , London-based managing director of
Intelligence Automotive Asia. “The current rate of growth
justifies a more aggressive capacity expansion plan for North
America.”  Demand for Subaru’s all-wheel-drive cars and light trucks
has risen 29 percent this year to 299,788, capped by a 60
percent sales increase in November. Production at Lafayette
should reach a record 277,835 vehicles this year, said Jennifer McGarvey, a spokeswoman for the factory.  Fuji Heavy fell 0.3 percent to 924 yen as of 9:05 a.m. in
 Tokyo . The stock has jumped 99 percent this year for the biggest
gain on the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average. (NKY)   Decision Pending  The plant opened in 1989, initially as a joint venture with
truckmaker  Isuzu Motors Ltd. (7202)  It currently makes Outback wagons,
Legacy sedans and Tribeca sport-utility vehicles as well as
Camry sedans for Toyota under contract. The factory can produce
a maximum of 310,000 vehicles annually, based on state air-
pollution limits, McGarvey said yesterday.  A decision on the expansion is possible “within the next
few months,” said Michael McHale, a company spokesman. At least
50,000 units of production capacity would be added if Impreza or
Forester production moved to Indiana, he said.  Subaru owns enough land at the Indiana site “we could
probably add a second full factory,” Doll said.  Doll earlier discussed a possible plant expansion during an
interview with CNBC yesterday.  Subaru’s U.S. sales unit is based in Cherry Hill, New
Jersey. Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota owns  16.5 percent  of
Fuji Heavy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  