-- Gap Falls Most in 16 Months on Lack of Special Dividend
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-12-04T21:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/gap-falls-most-in-16-months-on-lack-of-special-dividend.html
Gap Inc. (GPS)  fell the most in 16 months
amid speculation the biggest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer
won’t follow rivals such as  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)  and
 Coach Inc. (COH)  in paying special dividends or accelerating payments
this year.  The stock slid 10 percent to $30.94 at the close in New
York, the biggest one-day drop since August 2011. The San
Francisco-based company trimmed its rally this year to 67
percent relinquishing the  sixth-best  performer spot in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which it had held through Dec. 3.  “There’s no change in our position as it relates to
returning cash to shareholders,” Edie Kissko, a Gap
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. “Our approach has
been to return cash to shareholders through share repurchases
and regular dividend disbursements to shareholders. We have a
track record of increasing our quarterly dividend as the
business results have improved over the years.”  Companies from  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  to  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  have
announced plans to accelerate dividend payments or pay special
dividends ahead of a potential U.S. tax increase next year. The
top federal levy on dividends may rise to as much as 43.4
percent from 15 percent as part of the so-called fiscal cliff,
consisting of higher taxes and spending cuts. American Eagle,
Coach and  Guess? Inc. (GES)  are among retailers that have announced
such plans.  Jefferies Group Inc. earlier said Gap shares were declining
after a competitor’s note said the company wouldn’t pay a
special dividend and may lose market share to  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)   Gap fell “in response to the view of increased promotional
activity from mid-tier department stores” such as Kohl’s and
J.C. Penney Co., which share less than 10 percent of Gap’s adult
shoppers, Stephanie Wissink, an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. in
 Minneapolis , said in a note today. The company’s holiday season
is “on pace with expectations,” and the company is likely to
continue returning cash to shareholders through stock buybacks
and quarterly dividends, she wrote.  Gap will pay 50 cents per share in dividends for the
current fiscal year, an 11 percent increase from the previous
year, according to its most recent quarterly filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  