-- Gasoline Falls on Budget Stalemate, Estimate Supplies Gained
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J   P o w e l l
-- 2012-12-04T15:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/gasoline-falls-on-budget-stalemate-estimate-supplies-gained.html
Gasoline fell on concern that the
White House and congressional Republicans are far apart in
budget negotiations and on speculation supplies rose last week.  Futures slid after President  Barack Obama ’s administration
yesterday rejected House Speaker  John Boehner ’s counter proposal
to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff. Gasoline inventories
probably rose 1.6 million barrels last week, according to the
median estimate of 11 analysts in a survey by Bloomberg.  “Whenever there is a renewed concern about the fiscal
cliff, the market has pulled back,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil
market strategist at Energy Aspects Ltd., a research consulting
company in  London .  Gasoline for January delivery fell 4.38 cents, or 1.6
percent, to $2.6827 a gallon at 10:27 a.m. on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange.  Obama is negotiating with the Republican-controlled  House
of Representatives  on a deal to avert $607 billion in annual tax
increases and spending cuts set for January. Obama, a Democrat,
wants higher taxes on upper-income Americans to help reduce the
federal deficit. Boehner’s proposal $2.2 trillion of spending
cuts and new revenue didn’t include a tax increase.  Inventories of the motor fuel rose 3.87 million barrels in
the week ended Nov. 23 to 204.3 million barrels, the highest
level since the week ended Aug. 3, according to Energy
Department data. The department is scheduled to report last
week’s inventories tomorrow in  Washington .  Refinery Return  Gasoline stockpiles are expected to rise as refineries,
including Phillips 66’s Borger,  Texas , plant, return units to
service after maintenance and repairs. Refineries probably
operated at 89.1 percent of capacity in the seven days ended
Nov. 30, up 0.5 percentage point from the prior week, according
to the survey.  “Refineries will be turning this oil surplus into a
product surplus,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston. “There is already an impact from the
fiscal cliff.”  January-delivery heating oil dropped 4.81 cents, or 1.6
percent, to $3.0081 a gallon. Supplies of distillates, including
heating oil and diesel, probably rose 1 million barrels last
week, according to the survey.  The average nationwide cost for  regular gasoline  fell 0.6
cent to $3.381 a gallon, AAA said today on its website. That’s
the lowest average since July 9. The pump price reached a 2012
high of $3.936 on April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  