-- Google, General Mills, Bob Marley: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-04T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/google-general-mills-bob-marley-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , which bought Motorola
Mobility to gain leverage in the global legal battle over
smartphone and tablet computer inventions, can’t use some of its
patents to block sales of Microsoft Corp. products, a federal
judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge James Robart in  Seattle  said in a Nov.
30 opinion that, because Motorola Mobility pledged to license
some patents on fair and reasonable terms, it can’t seek a court
order to halt sales of products that use those inventions. The
ruling applies to a group of Motorola Mobility patents that are
deemed essential to industry standards for video decoding and
Wi-Fi technologies.  Niki Fenwick, a spokeswoman for Google, said the company
had no comment on the ruling. David Cuddy, a spokesman for
Microsoft, also declined to comment.  Mountain View , California-based Google spent $12.5 billion
to buy Motorola Mobility and cited its history of innovations
and patents on mobile phones as a key reason behind the
purchase. Google has cited Motorola Mobility’s patents to fight
back against patent-infringement claims by Microsoft and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  over devices running on Google’s Android operating system.  Robart’s ruling came in a breach-of-contract case brought
by Microsoft over Motorola Mobility’s licensing demands for the
Xbox video-gaming system and Microsoft Windows. Robart had
already ruled that Motorola Mobility had a contractual
obligation to license its standard-essential patents on fair
terms because it helped establish the standards.  A separate case in which Motorola Mobility is seeking to
block imports of the Xbox is scheduled to begin this week at the
U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington .  Two of the three patents in the ITC case relate to the
standard for video decoding that were the subject of Robart’s
decision.  Motorola Mobility had demanded a royalty of 2.25 percent of
the retail price of each product, a figure Microsoft called
excessive. The Redmond, Washington-based software maker has said
that would amount to $4 billion a year in royalties.  Apple had also accused Google of violating its commitments.
That case, in a Wisconsin federal court, was thrown out after
Apple said it wouldn’t accept any rate set by the trial judge
that exceeded $1 per unit.  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the European Union
are investigating claims filed by Microsoft and Apple that
Motorola Mobility is misusing its patents to thwart competition.  The case is  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  v. Motorola Inc., 10cv1823,
U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington
(Seattle).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  General Mills Wins Chinese Order Against ‘Haager-Dasz’ Mark  General Mills Inc. (GIS) , the Minneapolis-based maker of Cheerios
and Wheaties breakfast cereals, has persuaded a Chinese court to
bar a clothing manufacturer’s use of “Haager-Dasz” as a
trademark for clothing,  China Daily  reported.  The Beijing No. 1 Intermediate People’s Court Overturned a
ruling by the trade appeal board of the State Administration for
Industry and Commerce that General Mills’ “Haagen-Dazs”
trademark wasn’t sufficiently well known with the “relevant”
Chinese public, the newspaper reported.  The court said the “Haagen-Dazs” ice cream brand is well
known and that the public would be confused if the clothing
maker could use “Haager Dasz” on its clothing, according to
China Daily.  The clothing maker’s use of such a similar-sounding mark
was “obviously malicious,” the court said, and China Daily
reported.  Bob Marley’s Family Settles Trademark Suit Against Half-Brother  The family of the late reggae singer  Bob Marley  has settled
a trademark infringement against the singer’s half-brother,
according to court filings.  Marley’s widow and nine children filed suit against Richard
Booker in federal court in Ft. Lauderdale,  Florida , in December
2011, claiming Booker’s use of “Momma Marley” for food
products and a restaurant in  Jamaica , and “Marley Fest” for a
music festival constitute infringement.  The family also objected to applications to register “Nine
Mile” and “9 Mile” as trademarks, noting that Nine Mile is
the region of Jamaica where Marley lived and is closely
associated with the singer.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed in a Nov. 30
court filing. The court retains jurisdiction to enforce the
settlement and each party is to pay its own litigation costs and
legal fees, according to the filing.  The case is Fifty-Six Hope Road Music Ltd. v. Booker 1:11-
cv-24326-MGC, U.D. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  Kevin Durant  Says in Response to Suit He Doesn’t Use ‘Durantula’  Kevin Durant , a forward for the Oklahoma City Thunder
National Basketball Association team, has responded to a
trademark infringement suit brought by a Chicago-based musician.  Durant is a three-time NBA all-star, and basketball jerseys
bearing his name and number are second only in sales to  LeBron
James ’s, the NBA said in a statement last month.  Mark Durante of  Chicago  sued Kevin Durant in federal court
in Chicago in June, claiming his “Durantula” trademark was
infringed by the athlete. He said he had registered the mark
with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and used it as a
professional name, and for the sale of t-shirts, guitars and
related merchandise.  The musician also operates a website that uses that name,
www.durantula.com.  He asked the court for money damages and extra damages to
punish the athlete for his allegedly deliberate infringement.  In his response, Durant said he has never used
“Durantula” as a trademark or service mark, and that any use
of the name was initiated by basketball fans, which is, he said,
permitted under trademark law’s “fair use” exceptions.  The athlete noted that he and the musician aren’t
competitors and claimed that consumers are unlikely to confuse
the two of them. He also said the musician’s claims for punitive
damages were unreasonable and unconstitutionally excessive.  The case is Mark Durante v. Kevin Durant, 1:12-cv-04913,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois .  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  ISPs Block Access to TorrentFreak Copyright News Website  TorrentFreak, the blog that covers news related to
copyright issues with respect to file-sharing and the BitTorrent
protocol, is blocked.  A notice that pops up when the site is accessed states
“we’re complying with a court order that means access to this
website has to be blocked to protect against copyright
infringement.”  Some of the content displayed on the website is visible
despite the block. The  newest visible article  says that its
PromoBay website, a promotional platform for independent
artists, is presently being blocked by several  Internet service
providers  in the U.K.  TorrentBay said in its article that the PromoBay domain
itself “has never linked to infringing material, nor is it
hosted on The Pirate Bay’s servers.”  Smash Pictures Sued by ‘Fifty Shades of Grey’ Rights Holders  Smash Pictures Inc. , a Chatsworth, California-based maker
of adult films, was sued for infringement by the holders of the
copyrights for E.K. James’ “Shades of Grey” books.  According to the complaint filed in federal court in  Los
Angeles  Nov. 27, the “Shades of Grey” trilogy has sold more
than 40 million copies since its release in 2011.  Fifty Shades Ltd., the Middlesex, U.K.-based copyright
holder, says that Smash Pictures’ “First XXX Adaptation”
infringed the copyrights for the “Shades of Grey” books. The
film “is not a parody, and it does not comment on, criticize,
or ridicule the originals. It is a rip-off, plain and simple.”  The copyright holder also objects to Smash Pictures “Fifty
Shades of Pleasure: Play Kit & Movie,” which contains the film
and “various adult novelty items used in the ‘Fifty Shades’
trilogy.” According to the complaint, Fifty Shades Ltd. has
itself licensed the use of its trademarks for “ a collection of
adult sex toys including handcuffs” that are similar to what
Smash Pictures is offering.  Co-plaintiff is  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Studios LLC,
which holds the exclusive film rights to the “Fifty Shades”
trilogy, according to the complaint. Court papers contain a
side-by-side comparison of the script for the Smash Pictures
film and a series of pages from the “Shades of Gray” trilogy.  The copyright owners say they are harmed by Smash Pictures’
actions, and that the public is likely to be confused as to the
source of the “Fifty Shades of Pleasure” film and related
products.  They asked for an order barring further infringement, and
for a court order for the seizure of all infringing products and
promotional material. Additionally, they seek awards of money
damages, profits derived from the alleged infringement, and
litigation costs and attorney fees.  Smash Pictures spokesman Stuart Wall said in an e-mail that
his company has no comment on the pending litigation. There is
presently a film listed on the Smash Pictures website as “This
Isn’t Fifty Shades of Grey XXX. This is a Parody.”  The case is Fifty Shades Ltd. V. Smash Pictures Inc., 2:12-
cv-10111-ABC-SH, U.S. District Court, Central District of
 California  (Los Angeles).  Finland’s CIAPC Goes After Nine-Year-Old for File Sharing  Finnish police seized a nine-year-old girl’s laptop
computer in a raid after her father refused to pay a 600 euro
($783) fine for her alleged unauthorized downloading of a song
by pop performer  Chisu , Wired magazine  reported .  After the child had tried to use Pirate Bay’s file-sharing
website to download the album, her father bought her a
legitimate copy, Wired reported.  Finland’s  Copyright Information and Anti-Piracy Center  then
sent the father a letter -- which he acknowledged ignoring --
that accused him of unauthorized file-sharing, and demanding the
fine and that he sign a non-disclosure agreement, according to
Wired.  The father said his daughter acted innocently and called
CIAPC’s fine and the laptop seizure the “pinnacle of
absurdity,” and the artist whose album the child was trying to
download said she had no intention or desire to sue anyone for
file-sharing her music, Wired reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 