-- Grand Bargain Inadequate to Fix Fiscal Woes: BGOV Study
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-12-04T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/grand-bargain-inadequate-to-fix-fiscal-woes-bgov-study.html
Even a so-called grand bargain might
fall short of repairing U.S.  fiscal woes .  A $4 trillion combination of spending cuts and tax
increases over 10 years envisioned by Democrats and Republicans
as a long-term fix would be inadequate, according to a Bloomberg
Government study. Almost $6 trillion in deficit reduction will
be needed in the next decade “to make a minimum down payment
that puts the nation on a sounder fiscal footing,” the report
said.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration and Republicans in
Congress are negotiating ways to avert the fiscal cliff, the
more than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts that
will take effect in January unless Congress acts. An agreement
would be an initial step toward a long-term deficit-reduction
package.  The talks reached a stalemate late last week when
Republicans rejected Obama’s proposal to raise $1.6 trillion in
taxes, including by raising tax rates on the top 2 percent of
earners.  House Republicans yesterday countered with a $2.2 trillion
deficit-cutting plan that would trim Medicare and Social
Security and cap tax deductions for top earners.  The BGOV study found that it would take a $9 trillion deal,
“more than double the current level being discussed -- to
ensure the country’s long-run fiscal soundness as the demands of
an aging population and rising health-care costs put more
strains on the federal government.”  Debt Ratio  A grand bargain of $4 trillion, “a package most likely to
be put in place,” would put the ratio of debt-to-gross domestic
product in 2022 at 80.2 percent, above the 2012 level of about
73 percent, according to the report. To stabilize debt-to-GDP at
the 2012 mark, $5.9 trillion in deficit reduction would be
required.  “I would see a $4 trillion deal as knocking the current
five-alarm financial fire down to a more manageable three-alarm
fire with limited risk of near-term ratings downgrades, though
we would still be talking about eventual U.S. insolvency,” Mike Englund, chief economist of Action Economics LLC in Boulder,
 Colorado , said by e-mail when asked about the study.  “If we did a $6 trillion deal, it would return us to the
pre-Obama financial situation, which was hardly perfect, but was
manageable and with no ratings implications,” Englund said.  Republican Proposal  The House Republican fiscal-cliff proposal, in a letter
yesterday to Obama from House Speaker John Boehner and other
Republican leaders, seeks $800 billion in tax revenue in the
next decade and would slow the growth in Social Security cost-
of-living payments. It would reduce entitlement program costs by
at least $900 billion, including raising the Medicare
eligibility age, and cut $300 billion in discretionary spending.  The BGOV study, dated Nov. 30, was written by Robert Litan,
BGOV’s director of research; Christopher Payne, senior economic
analyst; Tony Costello, lead analyst; and Patrick Driessen,
senior tax analyst.  The report uses assumptions about GDP growth, inflation and
interest rates from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  