-- Gross Says Structural Headwinds May Drop Growth Below 2%
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-12-04T13:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/gross-says-structural-headwinds-may-drop-growth-below-2-1-.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
structural headwinds may reduce real economic growth below
2 percent in the U.S. and other developed nations.  “The biblical metaphor of seven years of fat leading to
seven years of lean may be quite apropos in the current case
with the observation that the developed world’s growth binge has
been decades in the making,” Gross wrote in his monthly
investment outlook posted on the Newport Beach, California-based
company’s  website  today. “We may need at least a decade for the
healing.”  With globalization, technological and demographic changes
restricting growth, investors should seek returns from
commodities such as oil and gas, U.S. inflation-protected bonds,
high-quality municipal debt and non-dollar emerging market
stocks, Gross said, reiterating earlier recommendations.  Long maturity developed country bonds in the U.S., U.K. and
 Germany  should be avoided, as well as high-yield debt and
financial stocks of banks and insurance companies, Gross wrote.  Investors should anticipate annual returns of 3 percent to
4 percent from bonds at best and equity returns only a few
percentage points higher, Gross wrote.  ‘New Normal’  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke recently confirmed
“Pimco’s new normal, which has been in place for three years
now, laying the blame in part on the financial crisis,
diminished productivity gains, and investment uncertainty due to
the near-term fiscal cliff,” Gross wrote. “We do not disagree.
However, there are numerous structural headwinds that may reduce
real growth even below the new normal 2 percent rate that
Bernanke has just confirmed, not only in the U.S. but in
developed economies everywhere.”  Pimco Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian, who shares
the title of chief investment officer with Gross, popularized
the term new normal as a way of describing a period of muted
growth in developed nations, high unemployment and deleveraging
in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis.  Gross domestic product grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in
the third quarter, up from a 2 percent prior estimate, revised
figures from the Commerce Department showed on Nov. 29.  Flagship Fund  Gross, the founder of Pimco, raised the proportion of U.S.
government and Treasury debt in his flagship $285 billion  Total
Return Fund (PTTRX)  to 24 percent of assets in October, the first
increase since April, as investors speculated the Fed would add
to stimulus measures through more asset purchases, according to
the latest available company data. Mortgages remained the fund’s
largest holding at 47 percent.  Treasuries have returned 2.6 percent in 2012, while
mortgages gained 2.5 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  The Total Return Fund gained 11.7 percent over the past
year, beating 96 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund has returned 8.34 percent over
five years, outperforming 97 percent of competitors.  “Developed economies have too much debt -- pure and simple
-- and as we attempt to resolve the dilemma, the resultant
austerity should lower real growth for years to come,” Gross
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  