-- Gupta Can Remain Free Pending Insider Appeal, Court Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-12-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/gupta-can-remain-free-pending-insider-appeal-court-says.html
Rajat Gupta , the former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  director, can remain free on $10 million bond while
he fights his  insider-trading  conviction, a federal appeals
court ruled.  “It is hereby ordered that the conditions of release
imposed by the district court will be continued,” U.S. Circuit
Judge Jose Cabranes said at the conclusion of yesterday’s
hearing in the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New York .  Gupta, 64, who was in court accompanied by his wife, Anita,
and their four daughters, challenged a ruling by U.S. U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  that he surrender to
prison on Jan. 8 and begin serving his two-year sentence.  After Cabranes announced his decision, Gupta’s wife burst
into tears and his daughters patted their father on the back.
The judge issued his ruling after consulting with U.S. District
Judge Reena Raggi, who was also on yesterday’s panel.  The ruling was a rare and swift ruling by the appeals court
granting a criminal defendant’s request to remain free while
they challenged the conviction.  Martha Stewart , who served five
months in prison for obstructing justice, was permitted to
remain free pending her appeal by U.S. District Judge Miriam Cedarbaum. Stewart later decided to serve her prison term before
her appeal was heard.  Cabranes said that the appeal would probably be accelerated
and that Gupta’s full appeal could be argued in either April or
May.  Galleon, Rajaratnam  In a separate civil lawsuit, Gupta objected to the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission's request for a $15 million 
penalty.  Gupta, according to his filing yesterday in federal 
court in Manhattan, can't contest civil liability for the 
insider-trading counts for which he was convicted in the 
criminal case. Still, a civil penalty wasn't appropriate in 
the SEC case, Gupta said, because he didn't profit from trades 
on the information he gave Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  Gupta was convicted by a jury in June of one count of
conspiracy and three counts of  securities fraud . He was accused
of passing illegal information about New York-based Goldman
Sachs to Rajaratnam, his friend and business partner. The jury 
convicted Gupta of twice passing information about Goldman 
Sachs to Rajaratnam, once on Sept. 23, 2008, and again on 
Oct. 23, 2008.  Seth Waxman, a lawyer for Gupta, argued Rakoff wrongly
allowed prosecutors to use three recordings of telephone calls
of Rajaratnam talking about his sources, calls in which Gupta
wasn’t a participant, the defense lawyers said.  Waxman also said yesterday that Rakoff erred when he ruled
Gupta couldn’t present testimony from his daughter that he told
her on Sept. 20, 2008, that he’d discovered that Rajaratnam had
withdrawn money from the fund. Gupta lost $10 million, Waxman
said.  ‘Swindled’  “Mr. Gupta was convicted on entirely circumstantial
evidence,” Waxman told Cabranes and Raggi. “Mr. Gupta’s
principle defense is he would’ve never provided any benefit to
Mr. Rajaratnam on those calls because he had come to believe Mr.
Gupta had swindled him.”  Raggi asked Waxman if this was relevant evidence because it
went to Gupta’s state of mind when the alleged Goldman Sachs tip
was passed.  “If Mr. Gupta believed, even if it was not true, but that
he believed he was swindled, that’s evidence of state of mind
which he wasn’t able to put on?” Raggi asked.  “Yes your honor, exactly,” Waxman said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky , who prosecuted Gupta
at trial, argued Rakoff hadn’t erred in his rulings and hadn’t
abused his discretion when he rejected Gupta’s request to remain
free pending appeal.  Wiretaps  Brodsky said the government had presented evidence during
the trial that Gupta would benefit from any trades made by
Rajaratnam in the Galleon International Fund.  He also said Rakoff had correctly permitted prosecutors to
play a wiretapped Oct. 4, 2008, call between Rajaratnam and
David Lau, a Galleon trader in  Asia .  During the telephone call intercepted by agents with the
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation under a court-authorized
wiretap, Rajaratnam said, “I heard yesterday from someone who’s
on the board of Goldman Sachs that they’re going to lose $2 a
share, the market has them making $2.50.”  “I’m going to whack it,” Rajaratnam said.  Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year prison term for insider
trading at the Federal Medical Center Devens in Ayers,
 Massachusetts . When he was sentenced in October 2011, he wasn’t
granted a hearing on his request to remain free pending appeal.  During a hearing in October before a panel of three judges
that included Cabranes, Rajaratnam also challenged the
government’s use of the wiretaps in his case.  Gupta left court yesterday after the hearing and declined
to comment on his case. Waxman and  Gary Naftalis , a lawyer who
defended him at trial, also declined to comment on the hearing.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, also declined to comment on the hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 12-4448, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  