-- Icahn Ends Oshkosh Bid After Shareholder Support Falls Short
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-12-04T14:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/icahn-ends-oshkosh-bid-after-shareholder-support-falls-short-1-.html
Billionaire activist investor  Carl
Icahn  dropped his bid to buy  Oshkosh Corp. (OSK)  after failing to
receive enough shareholder support. The stock declined as much
as 5.6 percent in morning trading.  Icahn, 76, the company’s largest  shareholder  with a 9.5
percent stake, had said he would end his bid if fewer than a
quarter of the company’s outstanding shares were tendered by the
deadline. About 22 percent of the shares were offered, according
to a statement from  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP)  today.  Because he didn’t get the 25 percent of shares sought, “we
are returning all tendered shares and we will not extend the
offer,” Icahn said in the statement.  Icahn’s offer to buy all outstanding shares of the Oshkosh,
Wisconsin-based truckmaker at $32.50 a share, or about $3
billion, expired at midnight yesterday.  Oshkosh fell to as low as $28.41 and traded at $28.63, down
4.9 percent, at 9:43 a.m. in  New York . The stock is up 34
percent this year. Oshkosh is the U.S. military’s largest
supplier of medium- and heavy-duty trucks.  John Daggett, a spokesman for Oshkosh, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call seeking comment.  Icahn has criticized Oshkosh’s executives for poor
performance. He was seeking to replace its 13-member board of
directors with his own nominees, including himself. He has
pushed for spinning off its JLG unit, which makes construction
lift equipment.  “I’m not surprised that Icahn had difficulty getting the
number of shares that he wanted to get to proceed with the proxy
fight,” Walter Liptak, an analyst at Barrington Research
Associates Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.
Liptak has an outperform rating on the company.  “Oshkosh management presented a really compelling earnings
growth plan to shareholders,” he said. “The trading today sets
up a buying opportunity in the stock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  