-- Michelin Awards Two Stars to More Restaurants in Hong Kong
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-12-04T08:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/michelin-awards-two-stars-to-more-restaurants-in-hong-kong-guide.html
Michelin awarded two stars to five
more restaurants in Hong Kong and one in Macau, taking the total
to 17.  The winners included Ah Yat Harbour View, Ryu Gin, Summer
Palace, Sushi Yoshitake and Tin Lung Heen in Hong Kong and
Golden Flower in Macau, Michelin said today in an e-mailed
release.  There was no change at the three-star level, with four
restaurants in Hong Kong and one in Macau retaining that status.  Thirteen more establishments were awarded a single star,
12 of them in Hong Kong and one in Macau, taking the tally to 46.  “Not only have the Michelin inspectors found many new
stars but they have also discovered a wide variety of
restaurants offering many different styles of cooking,”
Michelin said today in an e-mailed release. “We have expanded
our coverage to take in new locations such as Kennedy Town and
Sai Ying Pun on Hong Kong Island.”  The guide also features a total of 63 simple shop
restaurants, with 54 in Hong Kong and nine in Macau. These
basic, local food stalls make up about a fifth of the guide and
include noodle shops, roast meats, dim sum, Cantonese, Thai,
ramen noodles and congee eateries, and Vietnamese food stalls.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two are for excellent cooking, worth a detour; one
denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie (ML) , the world’s second-biggest tiremaker,
produced its first guide in 1900. It was free of charge until
1920 and intended for chauffeurs. The volume contained practical
information, including street maps and tips on repairing tires.
The company is based in Clermont-Ferrand,  France .  The Michelin Guide to Hong Kong Macau 2013 will be
available from Dec. 5 for HK$198.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,
 Hephzibah Anderson  on books,  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris arts and
 Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 