-- High-Frequency Traders Seen Profiting at Small-Firm Expense
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-12-04T19:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/high-frequency-traders-seen-profiting-at-small-firm-expense-1-.html
High-frequency trading firms earn
consistent profits at the expense of smaller and retail
participants, according to a  study  co-authored by the top
economist at the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Small firms suffered the biggest losses to high-frequency
traders on each contract traded, according to the study co-
authored by  Andrei Kirilenko , the agency’s chief economist, who
is leaving this year. High-frequency traders collectively earned
$23 million in trading profits in the E-mini S&P 500 futures
contract in August 2010 according to the study posted on the
National Bureau of Economic Research  website .  “The profits appear to be quite persistent and made by a
small number of participants,” Kirilenko said in a telephone
interview today. “The most aggressive participants, those who
take liquidity, seem to be most profitable.”  The paper, which defines small traders as retail
participants, doesn’t represent the official views of the CFTC,
the main U.S. derivatives regulator.  The CFTC, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, has
scrutinized high-frequency and algorithmic trading since May 6,
2010, when $862 billion in equity value was erased in 20 minutes
before share prices recovered from the plunge. The agency has
been drafting a document called a concept release, a step prior
to a formal proposal of new rules, that may recommend
registration of high-frequency firms.  ‘Parasitical’ Trading  “What this paper shows is that this type of speed trading
can often be parasitical and have far less value to markets and
price discovery than many contend,” said  Bart Chilton , one of
three Democrats on the CFTC.  The study examined 65 firms that trade a large number of
contracts, keep a consistently low inventory level and typically
don’t hold positions overnight. The study identified 14
“aggressive” HFT traders who initiate most of their trades and
take liquidity from markets, 21 “passive” traders and 30
mixed.  “There well may indeed be HFTs who are liquidity
providers, but there are some who are very clearly not,”
Kirilenko said.  The study found that aggressive HFTs made $3.49 per
contract traded with small traders, while passive traders made
$5.05 on the same type of transaction. They made less trading
against each other or against non-HFT companies that make
markets or institutional traders.  High-frequency trading firms earn most of their overall
profits from medium-sized traders who take large directional
positions in markets, the study found.  Small Traders  “Small traders, the way we characterize them, lose money
to all other categories of traders, not just HFTs,” Kirilenko
said in the interview.  The study should be considered alongside others that have
demonstrated improvements to market quality stemming from high-
speed trading strategies, said Jim Overdahl, vice president at
NERA Economic Consulting and an adviser to the Principal Traders
Group at the Futures Industry Association.  “It’s important to keep in mind that there are a variety
of studies out there that are focused on modern electronic
markets that have looked at the market quality improvements that
have occurred over the last five to 10 years,” Overdahl said in
a telephone interview. Participants in markets “have altered
their trading strategies so that they’re not at a
disadvantage,” he said.  The principal traders group  represents  more than 30 firms
including Getco LLC, DRW Holdings LLC and Quantlab Financial
LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  