-- Timken Owners Lose $1.3 Billion Without Spinoff: Real M&A
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-12-04T15:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/timken-owners-lose-1-3-billion-without-spinoff-real-m-a.html
Timken Co. (TKR) , the bearings maker that
trades at the lowest earnings multiple among its peers, is
costing shareholders the chance to recoup $1.3 billion in market
value lost this year by not spinning off its steel unit.  Ralph Whitworth’s Relational Investors LLC, known for
pushing for changes and board seats at companies from Hewlett-
Packard Co. to Illinois Tool Works Inc., announced a 5.7 percent
stake last week and said Timken’s  value  would jump to $64.98 a
share by separating the bearings and steel  units . The plan was
revealed after the Canton, Ohio-based company, which closed
yesterday at $45.12, fell 28 percent from its April high.  While Timken last week rejected a breakup and said keeping
the units combined provides technology and profit benefits, BB&T
Corp. said it’s “uncontroversial” that the company is worth
more in pieces after past attempts to eliminate the discount
from the steel business have failed. The $4.3 billion company
would be valued 33 percent more if split, according to the
average of four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Timken’s price-earnings  ratio  of 8.6 is cheaper than every
global competitor, with its valuation about 45 percent less than
the median, the data show.  Timken “doesn’t get a proper valuation,” Samuel Eisner, a
New York-based analyst with William Blair & Co., said in a
telephone interview, adding that a breakup may not be imminent
because of the relatively high ownership among members of the
founding family and the company pension. “If you did have a
chance to spin it off, you might be able to revalue that
business at a higher multiple,” he said, referring to the steel
operations.  Chassis, Engines  The company, founded in 1899 by Henry Timken, produces
anti-friction bearings and power-transmission components, in
addition to running the  business  Relational wants jettisoned,
which produces alloy steel used in vehicle chassis and engines
as well as steel forging bars and seamless tubes for oil and gas
drill bits. The company runs 58 manufacturing facilities and has
operations in 30 countries and territories, according to
Timken’s annual report from February.  “We have significant technology, cost and revenue
synergies between our bearing and steel businesses as well as
diversification benefits in continuing to operate under our
current structure,” Timken Chief Executive Officer James Griffith said in a Nov. 28 statement. “These synergies and
benefits, coupled with a potential reduction in financial
flexibility, among other factors, led the board to conclude that
the separation of the businesses at this time would not be in
the best interests of Timken shareholders.”  ‘Suboptimal Structure’  Pat Carlson, a spokeswoman for Timken, declined to comment
further.  Relational and California State Teachers’ Retirement System
announced their purchase of Timken shares in a Nov. 28 filing,
with the latter revealing a 0.4 percent  stake . Calstrs, as the
second-biggest U.S. pension is known, submitted a proposal to be
voted on at the next annual meeting that recommends hiring an
investment bank to spin off the steel business into a separate
publicly traded entity.  “There are a range of discounts out there that we’ve seen
from analysts, indicating values from $55 to $65-plus per
share,” Whitworth said during a phone interview yesterday.
“This discount will persist through all cycles and conditions
due to the incongruous nature of these two businesses,” he
said. “Waiting is not the answer. The costs to shareholders of
a suboptimal structure compound over time.”  Relational’s Record  Ricardo Duran , a spokesman for  Sacramento , California-based
Calstrs, declined to comment beyond last week’s filing.  Relational, based in  San Diego , has proven to be a catalyst
for change in the past. Illinois Tool Works agreed in August to
sell a majority stake in its decorative surfaces division to
Clayton, Dubilier & Rice LLC, following pressure from Relational
to reduce the number of business units. In November 2011, HP
said it would add Whitworth to its board to help shore up
investor confidence shaken by strategy shifts and lower sales
forecasts.  After  retreating  from an all-time high of $57.72 in April,
when the shares had a market capitalization of $5.6 billion,
Timken yesterday had the lowest price-earnings ratio among the
12 companies it describes as its peers in the  steel industry  and
the bearings and power-transmission group. Its 8.6 multiple to
earnings compares with 16.6 at Carpenter Technology Corp., 14.8
at SKF AB and 22 at Nucor Corp., data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The group median is 15.7.  ‘Negligible’ Benefit  In an August presentation to Timken management, Relational
described Timken’s lower valuation as “significant, reflecting
the market’s clear preference for pure-play bearings or steel
alternatives,” according to the document, filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on Nov. 28. Relational said
the value created by keeping the businesses together are
“negligible when compared to the market discount.”  “We agree that the market is unlikely to properly reward
either the steel or the bearing business for the secular
improvements they have made as long as these businesses remain
combined,”  Stephen Volkmann , a New York-based analyst at
Jefferies Group Inc., wrote in a Nov. 29 report.  Volkmann estimates that Timken’s parts would be valued at a
total of $55 a share if the company were split, and William
Blair’s Eisner has the same projection. BB&T’s Holden Lewis
forecast $61 to $62 a share in a Nov. 29 note. SunTrust Banks
Inc.’s James Kawai said $69 in a report issued Nov. 14, two
weeks before Relational made its proposal public. Those
estimates indicate an increase in Timken’s market value of $1.4
billion, on average.  More Volatile  While Timken would be worth more if broken up, “the
presence of the more volatile specialty steel business suggests
a material 20 percent-type conglomerate discount will likely
persist,” Kawai wrote.  Timken’s stock price is depressed because of the
seasonality of its business and because investors aren’t giving
its ability to generate cash enough credit, said Tim Kang, an
analyst for Olstein Capital Management LP, which oversees $555
million including Timken shares.  Timken produced $359 million in  free cash flow , or cash
from operations after deducting capital expenses, in the last 12
months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The shares traded for
12.2 times that amount yesterday, lower than the 16.5 median
among peers, the data show.  While Kang agrees with Relational that Timken would be
valued at about $65 a share if split, he said the stock may
climb to that level on its own in the next year or two.  Price Forecasts  “Breakups sometimes act as catalysts to unlocking that
value,” Kang said in a phone interview from Purchase,  New York .
“We don’t necessarily believe Timken has to break up to realize
value,” he said. However, “we would not be against a breakup
if the company were for doing it.”  Analysts don’t see the shares getting to the mid-$60s in
the next year. The  average  12-month price forecast is $49.78,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, only 10 percent more
than yesterday’s closing level.  Today, Timken shares fell 0.8 percent to $44.78 at 10:41
a.m. in New York.  The difference of opinions on a breakup stems from whether
investors are seeking an immediate gain or are patient enough to
wait, said Stanley Elliott, a Richmond, Virginia-based analyst
for Stifel Financial Corp. A longer-term approach can be
riskier, he said.  Insider Ownership  Both Relational and Timken “make valid points,” Elliott
said in a phone interview. “Splitting up the company would be a
way to unlock the value more near term. The longer-term view
would be seeing that the changes that they made to the business
and investments that they’re making are allowed to be
realized,” he said. “There would be some execution timing,
probably a little more risk involved.”  Insider  ownership  may impede a spinoff, William Blair’s
Eisner said. Members of the founding family, including Chairman
Ward J. Timken Jr., have sole or shared voting power covering
10.3 percent of the company’s shares, according to a March
filing. Participants in the Timken savings and investment
pension plan have 5.4 percent.  Businesses spun off from larger U.S. companies are beating
the rest of the stock market this year. The Bloomberg U.S. Spin-
Off Index of 20 stocks has  surged  41 percent in 2012, versus a
12 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Spinoff Success  The index includes such companies as ADT Corp., the
residential security business that was once part of Tyco
International Ltd., and Kraft Foods Group Inc. after its grocery
unit was separated from the snack foods division, now known as
Mondelez International Inc.  “Historically, spinoffs have worked out well,” Joe Cornell, founding principal of Spin-Off Advisors LLC in  Chicago ,
said in a phone interview. “The common thread that runs through
all of this is, if you boil it down, the management focus. They
go from being unwieldy conglomerates with different businesses
competing for capital and management’s attention, to being more
focused entities. Often that translates into better financial
performance that should work its way into the stock.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  