-- Singh Wins Retail FDI Vote in Boost to Flagging Policy Push
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-12-06T04:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/indian-lawmakers-to-vote-on-retail-opening-as-singh-seeks-boost.html
Indian lawmakers endorsed in a vote
the government’s decision to allow the entry of overseas retail
chains, boosting Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s bid to push
through policies to revive a slowing economy.  While 253 members of the 545-member of the lower house
supported the government plan yesterday, 218 voted against.
Singh’s Congress Party-led minority coalition emerged victorious
as two regional parties that oppose the arrival of foreign
supermarkets walked out rather than vote with ideological
rivals.  The September move to enable companies like  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  and  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  to open stores in  India  didn’t require
parliamentary approval to become law. Singh’s government agreed
to a vote to end protests that had stalled legislative business
as it seeks to push through the country’s biggest embrace of
foreign investment in a decade.  FDI in retail “sends a clear signal that India is open for
business; the impact on investor confidence is the biggest in
the short term,” said  Tushar Poddar , chief India economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Mumbai. “For every $1.7 dollar of
investment in retail you generate $1 of GDP growth. In retail
you get more bang for your buck because it has so many
linkages.”  As the debate began Dec. 4, opposition lawmakers contended
that the policy would throw small shopkeepers out of work,
further impoverish farmers and hurt consumers. Ruling coalition
members defended the retail plan, which can be rejected by state
administrations.  Shares Gain  “Don’t spread panic that” supermarket chains will wipe
out small retailers, Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  said in
parliament yesterday, arguing that convenient neighborhood shops
will survive. Foreign investment will help farmers get a better
price for their goods and cut the amount of food that currently
rots before it reaches the market, he said.  Indian stocks ended a two-day advance that propelled the
benchmark index yesterday to a 19-month high in the run up to
the vote. The BSE  India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, declined 0.7
percent today to 19,247.91 as of 9:37 a.m. in Mumbai.  India’s economic expansion slowed last quarter to match a
three-year low as growth in domestic spending and exports
moderated, adding pressure on the government to extend the
policy overhaul to spur investment.  Singh’s push to lure more foreign investors has been hurt
by the widest  budget deficit  in major emerging nations.
Parliamentary opposition to his drive to open industries to
overseas companies is clouding the outlook as inflation above 7
percent limits room for interest-rate cuts.  Parties Walk Out  The 10-party ruling alliance, which is as many as 24 seats
short of a majority in the lower house of parliament, was
boosted by Mayawati’s  Bahujan Samaj Party  and her leading
opponent, Mulayam Singh Yadav’s Samajwadi Party. Both left the
chamber before voting as they have in the past, and are likely
to have driven a hard bargain for their grudging support.  The government, which faces an even stiffer contest in the
upper house, will be seeking similar backing when lawmakers
there vote. The debate in the house will begin today.  The retail policy will enable Wal-Mart,  Carrefour SA (CA)  and
Tesco to step up their presence in the world’s second-most
populous nation to tap a market that Technopak Advisors Pvt.
estimates will expand to $725 billion by 2017.  Opposition parties have used the supermarket policy to
attack the government as it seeks to recover its poise after two
years during which it was attacked over corruption allegations
and weak leadership, and just over a year before the next
election.  Singh’s Resolve  “If FDI is good for the country, then why is it optional
in the states?” said Murli Manohar Joshi of the BJP yesterday,
adding foreign companies will destroy local retailers.
“Sacrifice yourself, not the country’s interests,” he told the
government.  The result may strengthen Singh’s resolve to overcome
opposition to his plans to allow foreign companies to hold
bigger stakes in insurance firms and for the first time permit
overseas investment in pension funds. These two decisions need
parliamentary approval.  Singh’s initial attempt to woo overseas companies to
modernize India’s retail market stalled in December as his
biggest ally, Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress, objected.
Banerjee pulled her party from the government in September as
the policy was resurrected as part of a legislative push after
business leaders demanded action to bolster the faltering
economy.  “Most reforms in India have happened when we’ve been
pushed to the wall,” said Kishor Ostwal, managing director at
 CNI Research Ltd. (CNIR)  in Mumbai. “This is one such occasion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  