-- Indian Rupee Drops a Second Day Before Foreign Investment Debate
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-12-04T04:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/indian-rupee-drops-a-second-day-before-foreign-investment-debate.html
India ’s rupee weakened for a second
day as U.S. budget talks remained deadlocked and before local
lawmakers debate measures to allow more overseas investment.  India’s parliament will start discussing today a decision
to allow foreign companies to open supermarkets in the country.
House Republicans rejected President  Barack Obama ’s demand for
higher taxes, heightening the confrontational tone of 
negotiations that are seeking to avoid the so-called fiscal
cliff of $607 billion of tax increases and spending cuts set to
take effect in January. A report showed U.S. manufacturing
unexpectedly contracted last month.  The rupee “would need strong political consensus on
reforms and the Reserve Bank of India’s growth-supportive
monetary policy to get into bullish mode,” said J. Moses Harding, executive vice president at IndusInd Bank Ltd. in
Mumbai.  The rupee declined 0.2 percent to 54.8750 per dollar as of
9:38 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That followed a 0.9 percent decline yesterday. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in exchange-rates used
to price options, was steady at 10 percent.  India’s economy  expanded  5.3 percent in the three months
through September from a year earlier, matching the pace in the
first quarter that was the slowest since 2009, official data
showed Nov. 30. The RBI has kept its benchmark repurchase rate
at 8 percent since April, citing price pressures. The monetary
authority is next scheduled to review policy on Dec. 18.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.78 per
dollar, compared with 55.50 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.71 versus 55.48. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  