-- Indian Stocks Gain as Parliament Debates Foreign-Retail Policy
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-12-04T12:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/indian-stocks-gain-as-parliament-debates-foreign-retail-policy.html
Indian stocks advanced amid optimism
the government may be able to push through its plan to allow
foreign investment in the nation’s retail industry after the
parliament began debating the issue today.  The BSE  India   Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 0.2 percent
to 19,348.12 at the close, holding at its highest level in 19
months set after jumping 4.5 percent  last week .  Reliance
Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the owner of the world’s largest oil-refining
complex, climbed 2.6 percent, the most since Sept. 17.  Tata
Power Co. (TPWR) , the largest non-state generator, rallied 3.9 percent.  The Sensex increased last week as data showing economic
expansion slowed last quarter to match a three-year low stoked
speculation the government will take more steps to boost growth
and investment. A political deadlock ended after the government
agreed last week to demands by the opposition for a vote on its
decision to allow foreign firms to set up supermarkets.  “The stock markets will cheer it if there is a political
consensus on reforms,” Anita Gandhi, a director at Arihant
Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai, said by phone. “Investors will
focus on the progress of this debate and the subsequent vote.”  The debate in the lower house began at 2 p.m. local time,
while voting will take place tomorrow. The Sensex  swung  between
gains and losses at least 15 times before the debate began.  The 30-stock gauge has climbed 25 percent this year, driven
by foreign flows and policy measures announced by the government
since September. Overseas funds  bought  $145 million more stocks
than they sold on Dec. 3, taking net purchases in 2012 to $20.2
billion, the most among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg,
excluding  China , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Policy Push  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  began the biggest policy
overhaul in a decade in mid-September, including fuel-subsidy
curbs and a push to spur foreign investments to revive growth.
 Gross domestic product  grew 5.3 percent in the quarter ended
Sept. 30 from a year ago, down from 5.5 percent the previous
quarter, government data showed last week.  Parliament has been repeatedly adjourned since reconvening
on Nov. 22 as opposition groups accused the government of
reneging on its promise to win legislative support for the
retail policy. Singh gave ground as allies and regional parties
signaled they are unlikely to vote against the ruling bloc.  The government is “confident of numbers,” Singh said on
Nov. 27 when asked if he’d be able to muster enough support to
win the vote. The retail policy, which state assemblies can
refuse to implement, will enable companies including  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  to step up their presence in the world’s second-most
populous nation.  Gas Block  Reliance Industries climbed 2.6 percent to 824.70 rupees
after a report said the nation’s oil ministry may approve the
company’s investment in satellite fields and R-series wells in
the KG-D6 block. The stock was rated equal-weight in new
coverage at Barclays Plc by equity analyst Somshankar Sinha,
with a price estimate of 850 rupees a share.  Tata Power rallied 3.9 percent to 111.65 rupees, the
highest close in nine months.  Oil and Natural Gas Corp.  added
1.2 percent to 265.25 rupees, a one-month high. The stock was
rated equal-weight in new coverage at Barclays with a price
estimate of 295 rupees a share.  State Bank of India  and  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the nation’s top
two lenders, advanced 1.6 percent each. SBI rose to 2,239.55
rupees and ICICI Bank increased to 1,119.35 rupees.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Sensex was at 11.01, compared
with the year’s lowest reading of 9.06 set on Nov. 26, the data
show. The gauge  trades  at 15.8 times estimated earnings, the
highest level since February. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) 
trades at a multiple of 11.7 times.  The S&P CNX  Nifty Index (NIFTY)  on the National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd. added 0.3 percent to 5,889.25, while its December
futures settled at 5,923.65. India VIX, which measures the cost
of protection against declines in the Nifty, jumped 1.9 percent
to 15.91.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  