-- Intersnack Said Close to $644 Million Deal for KP Snacks
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-12-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/intersnack-said-close-to-644-million-deal-for-kp-snacks.html
Intersnack Knabber-Geback GmbH & Co.
is close to an agreement to buy  United Biscuits ’ snacks unit for
more than 400 million pounds ($644 million), according to three
people familiar with the discussions.  Intersnack and KP Snacks, spun off this year from United
Biscuits by owners  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and PAI Partners, are
discussing the final details and could announce a deal as soon
as this week, said the people, who asked not to be identified as
the talks are private.  Blackstone and PAI bought United Biscuits for about 1.6
billion pounds in 2006. In 2010, they failed to sell the whole
company to Bright Food Group Co.,  Shanghai ’s biggest food and
dairy company, and decided to split the snacks and biscuits
businesses to facilitate an exit.  United Biscuits was created in 1948 from the merger of two
Scottish companies, McVitie & Price and MacFarlane Lang. It
competes with food companies including U.S. snackmakers
Snyder’s-Lance Inc. and ConAgra Foods Inc.  Intersnack , which
dates back to 1962 and uses German football star Bastian
Schweinsteiger for its advertising, sells bear-shaped chips and
fish-shaped salted snacks.  Bidders for the unit also originally included private-
equity firms such as Permira Advisers LLP, Warburg Pincus LLC,
Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC and  Lion Capital LLP , people
familiar with the situation said in September.  Representatives of Blackstone, PAI and Intersnacks declined
to comment. A spokesman for United Biscuits was not immediately
available for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  