-- Inventio, ThyssenKrupp Drop Trade Center Elevator Lawsuit
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-12-04T16:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/inventio-thyssenkrupp-drop-trade-center-elevator-lawsuit.html
Inventio, a unit of  Schindler Holding
AG (SCHP) , has dropped a lawsuit against  ThyssenKrupp Elevator Corp. (TKA) 
for allegedly infringing a patent for elevators at 1 World Trade
Center in  New York  after the patent was found invalid.  The parties agreed to dismiss the action, according to a
stipulation filed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan. The
agreement follows a ruling last week by an appeals court in
 Washington  that invalidated the same patent in another case.  Inventio, based in Switzerland, said in a Nov. 6 complaint
that the patent for elevator installation was issued by the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office in 1997 and reconfirmed in October.  A federal appeals court ruled Nov. 27 that the patent was
invalid. The decision came in a suit by Inventio claiming
infringement by  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Otis Elevator in
elevators at 7 World Trade Center.  The decision was made by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit in Washington, which specializes in patent
cases.  Media representatives at Hergiswil, Switzerland-based
Schindler didn’t immediately respond to messages seeking comment
on the stipulation in the ThyssenKrupp case. Press
representatives at ThyssenKrupp AG, based in Essen, Germany, had
no immediate comment.  One World Trade Center is a skyscraper under construction
in  Lower Manhattan  at the site of the twin towers destroyed in
the September 2001 terrorist attacks. A second location named in
the ThyssenKrupp suit is 11 Times Square.  Damaged Building  Seven World Trade Center was completed in 2006 at the site
of a building with the same address that was damaged when the
twin towers fell.  The patent is for data transmission technology that directs
someone with a recognition device like an electronic badge to
the right elevator.  The case is Inventio v. ThyssenKrupp, 12-08072, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
appeals court case is Schindler Elevator Corp. v. Otis Elevator
Co., 2011-1615 and 2012-1108,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal
Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at  mhytha @bloomberg.net. 