-- Lithuania Doesn't Object in Principle to CO2 Backloading
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-12-04T16:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/lithuania-doesn-t-object-in-principle-to-co2-backloading.html
Lithuania doesn’t object in principle
to the European Union’s proposal to strengthen the carbon market
by delaying auctions of some permits, said Stasile Znutiene, an
official at the country’s  Environment Ministry .  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, is
seeking government support for a draft measure to postpone sales
of 900 million allowances to 2019-2020 from 2012-2015 to help
prices rebound after they fell to a record low amid oversupply.
EU  member states  are scheduled to indicate their positions on
the stopgap measure at a meeting on Dec. 13.  “In principle Lithuania does not object to the
commission’s carbon backloading proposal, but wishes that member
states are consulted before the adoption of auctioning calendar
for every year,” Znutiene, head of the climate change policy
division in the pollution prevention department of the
environment ministry, said by e-mail.  At stake is the cost of pollution in the world’s biggest
cap-and-trade system after prices plunged to a record today on
concern that the EU won’t be able to enact this year the so-
called backloading measure. The glut of permits caused by the
economic crisis rose to almost half of the average annual
pollution limit in the 27-nation EU, knocking the price of
carbon 77 percent down since 2008.  The commission’s proposal needs 255 out of 345 votes in the
bloc’s Climate Change Committee, whose weighted ballot system
favors larger countries. Lithuania has seven votes. Should the
Committee approve the measure, it will become subject to a
three-month scrutiny period by governments and the European
Parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Doha at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  