-- Mitsubishi UFJ Targets Samurai Bond Comeback by Hiring Bankers
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-12-04T02:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/mitsubishi-ufj-targets-samurai-bond-comeback-by-hiring-bankers.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
is seeking to regain the top spot in Samurai bond underwriting
next year by hiring bankers and encouraging staff at its partner
Morgan Stanley to attract more foreign issuers of yen debt.  Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., the joint
venture between  Japan ’s biggest bank and the Wall Street firm,
will hire “several experienced bankers” in Tokyo next year,
said Hajime Suwa, head of debt capital markets. It is also
pitching companies, banks and government agencies in the U.S.,
 Europe  and  Asia  to issue yen bonds, he said.  The company, the No. 1 manager of bond sales in Japan this
year, ranks sixth for Samurai issuances and last held the top
spot in 2009, the year before it formed the investment banking
venture with  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  Suwa said he will focus on securing
deals with foreign financial firms after banks were the six
biggest issuers of yen debt in 2012.  “We’re having a tough time with the Samurai business,” 
Suwa, 46, said in an interview on Nov. 30 in Tokyo. “We’ve been
lagging behind in obtaining business from financial
institutions, which are the dominant issuers in the market.”  Suwa said the firm has begun hiring from local and overseas
firms. He declined to say how many bankers he plans to recruit
or give the number of current staff working on Samurai debt.  Tokyo-based Mitsubishi UFJ ranks sixth among arrangers of
yen debt sales for overseas issuers in 2012, down from third in
2011, second in 2010 and first in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  is the top Samurai
underwriter this year, arranging 35 transactions valued at 350.2
billion yen ($4.3 billion), followed by  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. (8411)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co., the data show.  Increase Travel  JPMorgan, Nordea Bank AB, Westpac Banking Corp., the
Republic of  Turkey , Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Shinhan Financial
Group Co. and Renault SA are among 25 issuers that sold 1.9
trillion yen of Samurai bonds in 2012, the data show. That’s
down 11 percent from the same period last year as European
issuances fell amid the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Suwa said he plans to increase travel to the U.S., Europe
and Asia by his Tokyo bankers to drum up business. They will
work more closely with Morgan Stanley counterparts abroad as
well as Mitsubishi UFJ bankers stationed overseas, he said.  “Investors’ appetite for Samurai bonds is growing,” Suwa
said. “Professional investors are shifting their focus to
Samurais from Japanese corporates” as they offer a better
yield, he said.  Higher Yields  Samurai bonds yielded an average 0.96 percent on Dec. 3, or
0.3 percentage point higher than domestic corporate notes,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Samurais
returned 4.7 percent this year, versus a 1.4 percent gain on
Japanese corporate bonds, the data show.  Some overseas enterprises that operate in Japan want to
raise funds in the Samurai market to increase their presence in
the country and diversify risk, Suwa said, without naming the
companies he is approaching.  France Telecom SA (FTE) , the country’s biggest phone company, and
 KT Corp. (030200) ,  South Korea ’s second-largest mobile carrier, have
registered to sell Samurai debt.  Signs are emerging that demand is reviving for yen debt at
European banks. Societe Generale SA tapped the market last month
after delays in 2008 and 2011, issuing 70 billion yen of Samurai
notes in a sale partly managed by Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley.
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , BNP Paribas SA and Credit Suisse Group AG have
registered to sell yen securities, according to filings with
Japan’s Ministry of Finance.  “We’ll make a fresh start by boosting our focus on
Samurais,” Suwa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  