-- Jackson Chimp Bubbles Paints $1,500 Abstracts for Charity
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-12-04T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/jackson-chimp-bubbles-paints-1-500-abstracts-for-charity.html
Among the boldface names you won’t be
expecting to find exhibiting at  Art Basel Miami Beach  is
Bubbles,  Michael Jackson ’s erstwhile chimpanzee companion.  His paintings -- two moody abstracts each priced at $1,500
-- feature in “Endangered,” a fundraiser in aid of the Center
for Great Apes, the sanctuary where he’s lived for eight years.  Set in woodland near the Peace River some 200 miles north
of Miami, it’s not ordinarily open to the public. Its residents
live in a network of geodesic domes connected by elevated
walkways, while staff zip around on golf carts below, their
walkie-talkies squawking like tropical birds.  Bubbles isn’t the only celebrity here. Founded by Patti
Ragan in 1993, the sanctuary shelters 29 chimps and 15
orangutans. Some are refugees from the exotic pet trade, a few
have come from biomedical research labs and many spent time in
showbiz.  Twin chimps Jacob and Jonah starred in  Tim Burton ’s
“Planet of the Apes” remake. Maggie has been on “The Tonight
Show” and, with Bella and Ellie, appeared in Career Builder
commercials.  Of the orangutans, Geri, whose beauty mark earned her the
nickname Geri Crawford, appeared in the Flintstones movie. Bam
Bam, a teenage male, cross-dressed as Nurse Precious in the soap
opera “Passions,” and Tango was a face of Tang.  In captivity, chimpanzees can live to be 60, orangutans 50.
Yet by around six years old, all had reached the ends of their
careers, growing too big and too strong-willed to manage.  Tough Time  Bubbles’s story is typical in this respect. Born in a
laboratory in  Texas  in 1983 and raised by humans, he was sent to
join the other chimps in his trainer’s compound when he became
too much for the pop star.  “He’s had a really tough time,” says Casey Taylor, who
turned her back on a law career to become the sanctuary’s
communications and development coordinator.  “He didn’t know how to be a chimp. There’s a serious
social structure with these animals -- you have to know the
chimp rules. He mentally shut down.”  Pets fare no better. The sanctuary’s newest arrival, Clyde,
was captured in  Africa , meaning he probably witnessed his mother
being shot and killed. Another chimp, Toddy, still has bullet
fragments in her brain.  Clyde was bought in a Manhattan gift store in 1968 and
treated like a child until he grew too large. He then spent 40
years caged in an Ohio garage.  Orangutan Attitude  And the apes from research facilities? Mari, who has her
own iPad and a special “orangutan with attitude” sign, had her
arms bitten off by her mother as an infant.  When Bubbles first arrived, the girl chimps picked on him.
He also seemed scared of heights. While the others swung around
40 feet up, he watched anxiously from the ground.  Now, nearing 30 and settling into ape middle age, he is the
dominant chimp in a group of seven. He weighs 165 pounds and
stands about four foot five, though sits brooding in a corner
when we’re introduced.  Only trained handlers are allowed into the apes’ habitats,
so my meeting with him is conducted through the mesh. I look at
him and he looks past me, gazing off into the distance.  Is he reliving his days moonwalking with Michael? Could he
be meditating on some ancestral dream of the African savannahs?
Unrecognizable from the baby who toured  Japan  dressed
identically to his owner, his hair has arranged itself into a
military brush cut and an overbite gives him a pettish air.  Pampered Carer  His pampered infancy sometimes reveals itself. If ever he
gets the tiniest scratch, he’s wont to spend the rest of the day
showing it to staff. Yet he’s also caring, and has become a
mentor to the baby of the sanctuary, seven-year-old Bobby-
Stryker, who used to ride around on Bubbles’s back.  His best friend here is a chimp named Ripley. Ripley
performed in the movie “Ace Ventura” before being sent to a
roadside zoo in  Nebraska , where he took part in a daring escape
that saw three of his sidekicks shot dead.  As I attempt to commune with Bubbles, another of his
buddies sidles up protectively and prepares a fat gob of spit
that lands just above my knee. At least it was spit. “Jungle
rain” is apparently not sanctuary slang for a refreshing
shower.  For years, Ragan rescued golden retrievers. Voluntary work
at Miami Metro Zoo and in Borneo led her to save the life of a
baby orangutan, smuggling him into a children’s hospital to
diagnose meningitis. Shortly afterwards, she was given a baby
chimpanzee to care for.  Sanctuary Plan  She had just sold her  Florida  temp agency, and when she
learnt how difficult it would be to find a long-term, stable
home for the apes, she decided to set up her own sanctuary.  Her mission is to provide them with dignity, enriching
care, and the companionship of their own species. They go on
play dates, have separate rooms in the night house, and enjoy
watching “Sesame Street.”  Some are more damaged than others. Put Denyse, who spent 30
years caged on a trailer park in Jacksonville, Florida, near
other chimpanzees and she’ll gather bamboo sticks and try to
stab them.  “It hurts me that she can’t know what living with her own
species is,” says Ragan, a petite woman dressed for safari, her
neat bob just a shade away from orangutan orange. She isn’t
about to give up trying to find a mate for Denyse.  Fundraising Challenge  No challenge is greater than fundraising, though. The cost
of care exceeds $20,000 a year for each animal. To take all the
sanctuary’s apes to the ends of their natural lives will require
$38 million at today’s costs, Ragan calculates.  She still accepts as many additional apes as she can, and
had agreed to take Travis, the chimp who was later shot dead by
police after he attacked a woman in  Connecticut  in 2009. His
owner couldn’t bring herself to be separated from him, though
she called Ragan following the attack.  “She wanted everyone to know that he wasn’t a vicious
chimp. Well, of course. It was the system -- it was the
breeder’s fault for selling him to her, hers for raising him
like a human, the state’s for not having better laws, the
community’s for seeing him walk around the streets and thinking
nothing of it.”  “Endangered” runs from Dec. 6 through Dec. 9 at Miami
Club Rum Distillery.  The sanctuary has a wish list of supplies that runs from
durable toys to outdoor fans for the summer swelter, and accepts
donations as small as a dollar. Annual membership starts at $50;
$250 includes a tour; $10,000 sponsors an ape for a year and
includes a night in the on-site guest cottage. Information:
 http://www.centerforgreatapes.org .  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,
 Richard Vines  on food,  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris arts and  Amanda
Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in Florida at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 