-- Japan Orders Nationwide Check of Tunnels After Collapse
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2012-12-04T04:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/japan-orders-nationwide-check-of-tunnels-after-collapse.html
Japanese police raided the offices of
a highway tunnel operator amid an investigation into a
Dec. 2 collapse that killed nine people, the country’s deadliest
tunnel disaster in 16 years.  The government yesterday ordered inspections of 49
underground passages that have a ceiling structure similar to
the collapsed tunnel’s, the transport ministry said in a
 statement  yesterday. About 270 concrete slabs weighing 1.4 tons
each fell from the ceiling of the Sasago Chuo expressway tunnel
near Mt. Fuji and about 85 kilometers (53 miles) west of  Tokyo 
on Sunday morning.  Police and Central Nippon Expressway Co. engineers are
investigating the cause of the collapse, said Satoshi Noguchi,
spokesman for the highway operator. “We will fully cooperate
with the police,” who raided Central Nippon’s headquarters
today, Noguchi said in a phone interview.  The Sasago underground passage, which was inspected by
Central Nippon engineers in September, remains closed, causing
traffic jams in Otsuki city and along a section of Route 20 that
runs parallel to the expressway linking Tokyo and Nagoya,
 Japan ’s fourth-largest city.  Aging Facilities  The incident shows Japan needs to improve aging facilities,
said  Masahiro Mochizuki , a Tokyo-based analyst at Credit Suisse
AG.  “Japan has the most earthquakes, and there needs to be
more investment in public infrastructure,” said Mochizuki.
“Most roads in Japan were built around the time of the 1964
Tokyo Olympics and are aging.”  Japan’s highway network includes more than 1,500 tunnels,
with a quarter of them more than 30 years old, according to the
Transport Ministry. The Sasago tunnel was built by a venture
between  Taisei Corp. (1801)  and  Obayashi Corp. (1802)  Taisei fell 1.7 percent
as of 1:23 p.m. in Tokyo trading, while Obayashi was unchanged.  The tunnel to Tokyo’s Haneda airport, and the Tokyo Bay
Aqua-Line, which includes an underwater passage between Kanagawa
and Chiba prefectures, are among the facilities to be inspected,
according to the transport ministry. The passages, like Sasago,
have concrete slab ceilings suspended by metal bolts to allow
ventilation.  Those tunnels will remain partly open during the
inspections, according to Central Nippon’s Noguchi.  Missing Bolts  Some bolts securing a strap supporting the Sasago tunnel
ceiling were discovered missing, Noguchi said. “The bolts may
have been getting old or earthquakes may have had some effect,”
said Noguchi.  The Sasago tunnel, which is in the Yamanashi prefecture,
was last inspected by Central Nippon in September, according to
the transport ministry.  The 4-kilometer passage, built in 1976, is near the start
of an expressway that carried an average of 37,000 vehicles a
day in the 12 months through April.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  temporarily suspended its instant shipping
service in the area served by the tunnel and restaurant operator
 Yoshinoya Holdings Co. (9861)  rerouted food deliveries, the Sankei
newspaper reported. Convenience store chain  FamilyMart Co. (8028)  said
it’s adjusting the timing of its deliveries.  “Opposition toward public spending on infrastructure will
probably become relaxed,” said  Yoji Otani , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in Tokyo. “You can’t place a value on human
lives.”  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  expressed his condolences to
the victims yesterday and ordered the transport minister to
provide emergency relief to the injured and investigate the
cause quickly.  In 1996, a rock slide near the entrance of the Toyohama
tunnel in Hokkaido crushed a bus and killed 20 people, while 7
people died in 1979 in the Nihonzaka tunnel along the Tomei
expressway in Shizuoka prefecture after a fire from a car crash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  