-- Japan Tunnel Collapse Threatens to Add to Fiscal Burden: Economy
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2012-12-04T03:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/japan-tunnel-collapse-shows-repair-urgency-as-abe-vows-funds-1-.html
Japan ’s fatal tunnel tragedy this
week escalated a political debate over infrastructure spending
as the nation heads for elections, bringing focus to aging
transport networks in the world’s third-largest economy.  The 4-kilometer tunnel near Mt. Fuji that saw about 270
concrete slabs each weighing 1.4 tons fall and cause the deaths
of nine people was built in the 1970s. Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda yesterday said while repairs are a priority, the opposition
Liberal Democratic Party’s call for broader infrastructure
spending is a throwback to “wasteful pork-barrel” projects.  With the LDP leading in polls before the Dec. 16 vote, the
prospect of more spending would add to fiscal strains that have
already seen Japan accumulate more than twice the size of its
economy in debt. At the same time, failure to update the road
system risks boosting production costs as an estimated 40,000
bridges reach the end of their durability in the coming decade.  “Aging infrastructure multiplies the risk of damage from
natural disasters and hinders the distribution of goods and
people, threatening to erode the country’s productivity,” said
Takashi Shiono, an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Tokyo .
“It will further lower the Japanese economy’s potential
growth.”  The cost of maintaining and repairing bridges, roads, sewer
lines and other public infrastructure is projected to increase
by more than 40 percent over the next 20 years, to 7.1 trillion
yen ($86.6 billion) per year. The Transportation Ministry, which
released its estimate of infrastructure replacement needs in
July, has ordered a nationwide inspection of 49 tunnels after
the Dec. 2 failure.  Rising Stocks  Japan’s stocks have rallied the past three weeks as
investors embraced the prospect of LDP leader Shinzo Abe
becoming the next prime minister after he called for greater
monetary stimulus to stoke growth and end deflation. The Nikkei
225 Stock Average gained 5.8 percent last month, and was down
0.4 percent at the close of today’s morning session after U.S.
manufacturing unexpectedly contracted.  Japan Bridge Corp. (5912)  rose as much as 13 percent in Tokyo
trading, following a 21 percent gain yesterday.  Sho-Bond
Holdings Co. (1414)  jumped as much as 4.5 percent to a record high.
 Maeda Road Construction Co. (1883)  climbed as much as 3.1 percent,
reaching the highest since February 1997.  This fiscal year the repair bill alone may reach 4.9
trillion yen while the budget for public works is 4.6 trillion
yen, according to the ministry. The LDP didn’t say in its
platform how it would pay for repairs, though its lawmakers in
June submitted a bill calling for 15 trillion yen in public-
works spending over the next three years. The legislation didn’t
move forward after Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda dissolved
parliament last month.  Market Risk  A return to the spending that contributed to doubling
Japan’s public debt in the 1990s, without a plan to pay for it,
could spark market turmoil, said  Hideo Kumano , chief economist
at  Dai-Ichi Life (8750)  Research Institute and a former Bank of Japan
official.  “It’s worrisome that the LDP’s election pledge fails to
spell out concrete plans to pay for its spending,” he said.
“Should the government be forced to increase its bond issuance,
the risk that the market becomes more volatile will surge.”  Noda yesterday criticized the LDP’s pledge to increase
spending on new roads and other facilities, writing on  his
official blog  that repairing existing infrastructure should be
given priority.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said in a Nov. 27 report that the Japanese government needs a
“detailed and credible fiscal consolidation plan, including
specific revenue increases and spending cuts.” Any delay could
result in higher bond yields, risking both the banking
industry’s and the country’s fiscal sustainability, the Paris-
based group said.  Construction Bonds  Abe last month proposed issuing construction bonds to pay
for more public-works projects and asking the BOJ to buy them
from the debt market.  Japan’s new government should prioritize repair rather than
new projects, said Yuji Nemoto, a professor at Toyo University
and a former official of the Development  Bank of Japan (8301) , a state-
backed lender.  “This accident shouldn’t have happened,” Nemoto said of
the tunnel disaster.  “This symbolizes that Japan’s
infrastructure -- roads, bridges, water and sewers -- are aging
because investment was concentrated in the 1960s and 1970s.
Something must be done about this swiftly.”  Resilient Country  One goal mentioned in the LDP’s manifesto is to make the
country more resilient to natural disasters such as earthquakes,
tsunamis, rain storms and heavy snow. It also wants to expand
“missing links” in the nation’s highway network, it said,
without providing further details.  Noda’s Democratic Party of Japan says it has reduced
spending on public works by 32 percent in three years. In its
platform released last week, it vows to increase support for
child care, medical services and to reduce medical payments for
the elderly. The LDP, in turn, wants to reduce subsidies for
poor families by 10 percent.  In other news in the Asia-Pacific region, Japanese wages
rose in October for the first time in six months. The Reserve
Bank of  Australia  may lower its benchmark interest rate by a
quarter of a percentage point, according to 20 of 28 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  In  Europe , Spanish unemployment probably increased for the
fourth month in November, according to a survey of economists,
while U.K. house prices may have risen for the first time in
five months. Producer price inflation in the euro region
probably slowed in October from the previous month.  Global Economy  Brazilian industrial production may have risen in October
after falling in the previous month, according to a survey of 35
economists. The Bank of Canada is forecast to keep rates
unchanged at a meeting today.  Japan’s ratio of funds for public works to gross domestic
product has fallen to 3.2 percent in 2010 from 6.3 percent in
1995, according to finance ministry data. That compares with
about 3.1 percent in France and 2.5 percent in the U.K.  “Japan is an unprecedented case as it will see
infrastructure that was built in a short period of time reach
its expiration all at once,” said Naoki Takesue, a research
director at Mitsubishi Research Institute in Tokyo. “Given the
severe fiscal situation, it’s more than obvious that Japan can’t
maintain all the infrastructure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  