-- Japan Deploys Missile Defense Against North Korean Rocket Test
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-12-04T01:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/japan-deploys-missile-defense-against-north-korean-rocket-test.html
Japan will deploy its Patriot anti-
missile defense system in Okinawa and around Tokyo to guard
against this month’s planned North Korean rocket launch, the
 Defense Ministry  said.  Ships carrying PAC-3 missile interceptors set out for
Okinawa from a naval base in Hiroshima yesterday, Defense
Ministry spokesman Takaaki Ohno said. The move follows an order
issued by Defense Minister Satoshi Morimoto over the weekend, he
added.  North Korea  said last weekend it will fire a rocket between
Dec. 10 and Dec. 22 to put a satellite into space, the same
explanation given for an April launch that failed shortly after
liftoff. Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda yesterday urged
North Korea to “exercise self-restraint” and called for close
cooperation with the U.S., South Korea, China and Russia to push
leader Kim Jong Un to abandon the plan.  The rocket isn’t expected to fly over Japan, which also
deployed the missile interceptor system ahead of the April test.
The projectile’s first stage should fall in waters about 140
kilometers (87 miles) west of  South Korea , and the second should
fall in the ocean about 136 kilometers east of the  Philippines ,
South Korea’s Transportation Ministry said yesterday, citing
air-traffic notices sent by the North.  Shinsuke Sugiyama, a diplomat in charge of North Korean
issues, will go to Washington today to discuss the planned
launch with U.S. officials, the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  said
in an e-mailed statement.  Ohno declined to comment on the exact locations for the
deployment of the PAC-3s, which are designed to intercept
missiles when they near the ground at the end of their
trajectory. Japan also has ship-borne SM-3 interceptors, which
are designed to hit ballistic missiles in mid-flight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  