-- JC Flowers Still Interested in Irish Life, Executive Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-12-04T17:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/jc-flowers-still-interested-in-irish-life-executive-says-1-.html
JC Flowers & Co LLC, short-listed
last year in Ireland’s shelved sale of  Irish Life  Group Ltd., is
still interested in buying the nation’s largest life insurer, an
executive at the U.S. investment firm said.  “We remain interested to invest in Ireland and have
followed Irish Life’s progress over the last year or so,” Tim Hanford, managing director of JC Flowers & Co U.K. Ltd., said by
phone today. “If the government were now to re-open the sale
process for the company, then we would certainly hope to
participate.”  Ireland’s government has resumed talks on a possible sale
of Irish Life to Canada’s  Great-West Lifeco Inc. (GWO) , said two
people with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be named
as the process is private. The government bought the insurer for
1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion) in June from debt-laden lender
Irish Life & Permanent Plc after the euro-area debt crisis
prompted Great-West to pull out of the process in November 2011.  Great-West, the Winnipeg, Manitoba-based owner of Boston-
based  Putnam Investments , was picked as the top candidate to
acquire Irish Life last year. A joint bid from New York-based JC
Flowers and  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and an offer from CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. was also short-listed, three people said
in August 2011.  “We consider Irish Life an attractive long-term
opportunity for Great-West,”  Peter Routledge , an analyst at
National Bank Financial Group in Toronto, wrote in a note to
clients yesterday, noting that company manages 33 percent of
life assurance and pensions assets in Ireland. “However, the
potential deal does pose some near-term valuation risk,
especially of the  European debt crisis  intensifies again.”  Great-West’s existing Irish subsidiary, Canada Life, has a
5 percent market share, the analyst said.  Officials from Ireland’s Finance Ministry and Irish Life
declined to comment on the resumed talks with Great-West, while
Marlene Klassen, a spokeswoman for the Canadian life company,
didn’t immediately return a phone call. The Sunday Business Post
reported on Dec. 2 Great-West had reopened talks on Irish Life.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  