-- Jordan Seeks Aid Amid Burden of 250,000 Syrian Refugees
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-12-05T09:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/jordan-seeks-aid-amid-burden-of-250-000-syrian-refugees.html
Syrian refugees fleeing across the
border to Jordan are creating an economic burden that could
threaten the kingdom’s economic reforms, Jordan’s foreign
minister and planning minister said.  About 250,000 Syrians have fled to Jordan over the past 19
months of civil war, imposing a $600 million cost that is
straining health, education, energy and water systems, Jordanian
Foreign Minister Nasser Judeh said in a Dec. 3 Bloomberg
Government interview in  Washington . The conflict has indirect
economic effects as well, scaring away tourists and cutting off
transportation routes for the nation’s agricultural exports, he
said.  While Jordan is committed to welcoming those fleeing the
Syrian violence, it needs more financial help from the U.S. and
other countries to meet the costs, the ministers said. Jordan’s
economic strains not only increase the challenge of meeting
 International Monetary Fund  loan requirements, the ministers
said, they could also endanger political reform meant to stave
off unrest sweeping the rest of the region.  “No political reform can be sustained, no political reform
can actually be lasting if the economic reforms are not
enabled,” Jordanian Minister of Planning Jafar Hassan said in
the interview.  Hassan estimated that accommodating the current flow of
fleeing Syrians will require $300 million over the next six
months. “It makes it much, much harder to move forward with the
economic reform program while these externalities continue
imposing themselves on our fiscal situation,” he said.  Political Reforms  Jordan’s influx of refugees is taking place against the
backdrop of regional protest movements that have raised public
expectations, Hassan said. In the atmosphere of the Arab Spring,
governments “have to deliver much faster and much more than
previous governments did,” the planning minister said.  The kingdom has moved to get ahead of demands for change by
instituting political reforms, including revising the
constitution and tackling election practices to address public
cynicism about a system critics have said is rigged to favor
certain groups. In Jordan’s parliamentary system, the lower
house is elected, while  King Abdullah  appoints the upper house.
Parliamentary elections are scheduled for Jan. 23, Judeh said.  The kingdom is now the biggest recipient of refugees among
the five countries bordering  Syria , Hassan said. If flows
continue as they are, with the cost of housing a refugee at
$2,000 a person, the refugees entering the country could cost
Jordan almost $1 billion over 2012 and 2013, he said.  $200 Million  The quarter-million refugees that have entered Jordan are
drawn, in part, by historical ties between communities and
families in Syria and Jordan, Judeh said. The majority have
migrated to cities, with only 40,000 to 50,000 in camps. There
are reports of Jordanians losing their jobs to the newcomers,
who are willing to work for lower pay, Judeh said.  The U.S. gave Jordan $100 million in aid in July to help
the kingdom host the refugees. Last month, members of the Jordan
caucus in Congress supported Jordan’s request to the State
Department for $200 million in additional support, Hassan said.  The debt-ridden country is also energy-dependent, with few
water resources. It is working with the IMF on a $2 billion
economic reform program that has required fuel-cost increases
that have triggered public protests.  “For the short term, there is this risk that not being
able to deliver economically will really derail the entire
political process that has been a major advance,” Hassan said.  System Strained  The IMF reform program doesn’t provide “for eventualities
or possibilities or crises in the region,” Hassan said. “It
doesn’t factor in refugees.” As a result, he said, “it adds
much more challenges in terms of delivering on the program” the
IMF has laid out for Jordan.  The four industries most seriously affected by the refugee
crisis are health, education, energy and water, Judeh said. The
country is fourth in the world in terms of water scarcity and
imports 96 percent of its energy. While the education system is
good, it’s “hardly able to accommodate our own schoolchildren”
before 15,000 to 17,000 Syrian children enrolled in the last
school year, Judeh said.  As Jordan’s social systems face such unprecedented strain,
the kingdom’s allies have to understand the risk of economically
driven unrest threatening political reform, Hassan said. This
lesson, he said, is one that applies to all Arab countries in
transition.  The international community can help by “providing that
liquidity, providing that financial safety, providing that
short-term security for the economic systems and fiscal systems
in place so that they could get through this very risky period
without really failing,” Hassan said.  More than 41,000 people have been killed in Syria’s
conflict, according to the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for
 Human Rights .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  