-- K&L Gates, Greenberg Traurig, Kirkland: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-04T20:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/k-l-gates-greenberg-traurig-kirkland-business-of-law.html
K&L Gates LLP and Australian firm
Middletons agreed to combine as of Jan. 1. Middletons’
300 lawyers in four Australian offices will bring the firm,
which will continue to be known as K&L Gates, to 2,000 lawyers
in 46 offices on five continents.  “By their resoundingly affirmative votes, our partners
have boldly seized the future by aligning our business with the
businesses of clients in an era of intense consolidation and
globalization,” K&L Gates chairman and global managing partner,
Peter J. Kalis, and Middletons national managing partner, Nick
Nichola, said in a joint  statement .  The new offices in  Melbourne , Sydney, Perth and Brisbane
will expand K&L Gates’s Asia-Pacific coverage by giving the firm
more than 400 lawyers across 11 offices in the Asia-Pacific
region, including in  China . The firm will have more depth in a
number of practice areas including corporate, energy, banking
and real estate.  The combination marks the first time a global firm has
combined with an Australian firm and fully integrated
financially, according to the statement.  Middletons lawyers will be part of K&L Gates’ global
governance and partner compensation scheme.  Firm News  Ex-Greenberg Traurig Lawyer Files $200 Million Sex-Bias Suit  Greenberg Traurig LLP was sued for $200 million by a former
partner who claims that women at the law firm are paid less and
given fewer opportunities for advancement than their male
counterparts.  Francine Griesing, who worked as a Greenberg Traurig
partner in Philadelphia from April 2007 to January 2010, filed a
complaint in federal court in  Manhattan  yesterday, seeking to
represent a class of current and former women partners at the
firm.  “GT, in short, pays women less, promotes them at lower
rates than men and virtually freezes them out from high-level
managerial positions,” Griesing said in her complaint.  The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in June
found “reasonable cause to believe” that the firm violated
federal law by underpaying women partners in the Philadelphia
office and retaliated against Griesing when she complained about
it.  In a statement, Hilarie Bass, a member of Greenberg
Traurig’s executive committee, called the suit “a financially
motivated publicity stunt” and said it lacks merit.  “Greenberg Traurig has an exemplary record of fairness and
advancement irrespective or gender, race or creed,” Bass said.
“Our history of recruiting, retaining, and promoting women and
our law firm reflects that.”  Bass said the firm yesterday filed a petition in federal
court in Philadelphia to force Griesing’s complaint to
arbitration.  Greenberg Traurig has about 1,750 lawyers in 35 offices
throughout the world, according to the firm’s website.  The case is Griesing v. Greenberg Traurig LLP, 12-CV-8734,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Quinn Emanuel to Open Paris Office With Shearman Partner  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP will open an office
in Paris in January, which will be headed by Philippe Pinsolle,
currently a partner in the international arbitration group of
the Paris office of Shearman & Sterling LLP, the firm said.  The office, which will handle only litigation and
arbitration work, will be the firm’s fourth European office.  “Paris is one of the global centers of international
arbitration, and Philippe Pinsolle is one of the leaders of that
bar,” Quinn Emanuel managing partner John Quinn said in a
statement. “To achieve our goal of having a world-class
international arbitration practice, we had to have an office in
Paris and we had to have a civil law expert.”  Pinsolle is admitted to practice in both Paris and  England .
He has handled more than 180 international arbitrations in both
commercial and investor-state disputes, the firm said.  The firm has hired eight international arbitration
specialists since last December.  Quinn Emanuel has 650 lawyers devoted to business
litigation at 11 offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Tokyo .  Jackson Lewis Names Vincent Cino as Chairman to Succeed Vaccaro  Jackson Lewis LLP, a law firm specializing in workplace
issues, named Vincent Cino as chairman, succeeding Patrick Vaccaro.  The appointment is effective Jan. 1, the White Plains, New
York-based firm said yesterday in a statement. Vaccaro, who has
served as chairman since 2006, will continue his legal practice
as a partner at the 735-attorney firm.  “Under Pat Vaccaro’s leadership, Jackson Lewis has
achieved substantial growth and success, including significant
expansion of our geographic footprint both domestically and
internationally,” Cino said in the statement. “I look forward
to following Pat’s path and expanding upon his many
accomplishments.”  Cino, a partner in Jackson Lewis’s office in Morristown,
New Jersey, has been the firm’s national director of litigation
since 2006, supervising more than 5,000 litigation issues the
firm handles each year, according to the statement. He also
serves on the firm’s management committee.  “Vincent has been tirelessly by my side helping to elevate
our firm to substantially new heights,” Vaccaro said in the
statement. “The partners believe Vincent is uniquely suited to
lead Jackson Lewis.”  Since Vaccaro’s election in July 2006, the firm has doubled
attorney headcount and increased its office locations to 49. The
firm generated $326.5 million in gross revenue last year, up
about 11 percent from the year before. It ranked 85th last year
on the American Lawyer’s AmLaw 100, an industry listing of the
largest law firms in the U.S. by revenue.  News  Kirkland & Ellis Top Market Value, Legal Trade Publication Says  Kirkland & Ellis LLP, valued at $3,953,500,000, has the
greatest market value of any law firm in the world, according to
a  survey  by the American Lawyer magazine.  The American Lawyer used a formula developed after
consultations with investment professionals and consultants that
takes firms’ net profit and adjusts that according to lawyer
salaries, firm size and growth as well as brand strength,
according to the magazine.  Thirty-three firms exceed the average $1 billion value,
among the magazine’s chart of the 100 highest earning global law
firms. Latham & Watkins LLP at $3,796,500,000 and Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP at $3,337,000,000, were ranked second
and third in valuation, according to the survey.  The intent of the survey was to look at the value of law
firms the way an investor might, given the changes in the U.K.,
allowing investment in law firms by non-lawyers, the magazine
said.  London Whale, Adoboli-Type Losses Drive Shares Most, Report Says  Rogue traders, corruption, money laundering and tax fraud
can have the greatest short-term negative impact on companies’
shares, according to a review of how crises affect listed firms
and their board make-up.  So-called behavioral crises “spook markets the most,”
with shares at times falling by more than 50 percent on news
breaking of company or employee misconduct, according to the
report by Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP.  “Executives at firms affected by a behavioral issues
should typically prepare for an up-front hit on their share
prices, whereas those dealing with an operational matter are
probably going to be in repair mode for the long term,” Chris
Pugh, global head of dispute resolution at Freshfields, said in
a statement that accompanied the report.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  fell as much as 24 percent in the
month after it disclosed a multibillion-dollar trading loss at
its chief investment office where Bruno Iksil, the so-called
 London  Whale, worked.  UBS AG (UBSN)  tumbled almost 11 percent on Sept.
15, 2011, after announcing it may be unprofitable after a loss
from unauthorized trading by Kweku Adoboli.  The report published by London-based Freshfields analyzed
78 significant corporate events since August 2007 at companies
listed across 16 stock markets worldwide including the  London
Stock Exchange (LSE)  and the  New York Stock Exchange. (NYX)   More than a quarter of companies affected by corporate
crises, including litigation or the announcement of a hostile
bid, see an initial drop in value on the first day but tend to
recover the fastest, with just one-in-seven companies suffering
six months later, according to the law firm’s report.  For more, click here.  Deals  Skadden, Dechert Advise Dean in $1.45 Billion Deal with Saputo  Saputo Inc. (SAP) ,  Canada ’s largest dairy processor, agreed to
buy  Dean Foods Co.’s (DF)  Morningstar Foods unit for $1.45 billion to
expand in the U.S.  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP and Dechert LLP
served as legal advisers to Dean Foods. Jones Day and Stikeman
Elliott LLP advised Saputo.  The Skadden mergers-and-acquisitions team includes partner
Stephen Arcano in New York. Dechert’s lawyers includes
 Washington  antitrust partner Paul Denis.  Jones Day’s team was led by Chicago mergers and
acquisitions partner Phil Stamatakos and associate  Adam
Schaeffer .  Stikeman’s partners on the legal team included Steeve Robitaille and  Pierre-Yves Leduc .  The acquisition will be financed through a newly committed
bank loan and is expected to close by the end of the month,
Montreal-based Saputo said yesterday in a statement.  Saputo, which got about 53 percent of its revenue in Canada
in its most recent fiscal year, is gaining a maker of creams,
ice-cream mixes, sour cream and cheese to add to its namesake,
Armstrong, Dairyland and Rondeau products. Morningstar had C$1.6
billion ($1.6 billion) in revenue in the 12 months through Sept.
30, Saputo said.  Dean has been focusing more on its  WhiteWave Foods Co. (WWAV) 
business, which makes Silk soy milk and International Delight
coffee cream, and said in September that it was considering
selling Morningstar. The unit made up about $1.3 billion, or 10
percent, of Dean’s $13 billion in sales last year and 15 percent
of operating income, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  WhiteWave conducted an initial public offering in October,
raising about $391 million, 22 percent more than it had sought.
Dean still owns about 88 percent of WhiteWave.  For more, click here.  Moves  Arbitration Lawyer Michaelson Joins Fried Frank in London  Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP hired Justin Michaelson, formerly head of SJ Berwin LLP’s international
arbitration group in London, the firm said. He joins the
international disputes group in London.  Michaelson handles high-value international arbitration and
other multijurisdictional commercial disputes. His practice also
includes Commercial Court litigation with an international
component. Fried Frank has lawyers at seven offices in the U.S.,
Europe and Asia.  International Trade Attorney Joins Dechert in Washington.  Dechert LLP announced that Jeremy B. Zucker, formerly a
partner at Hogan Lovells LLP, has joined the firm as a partner
in the international trade practice in Washington.  Zucker focuses his practice on international trade
regulatory compliance matters. He advises clients on the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, matters concerning the Export
Administration Regulations, the International Traffic in Arms
Regulations, the anti-money laundering provisions of the USA
Patriot Act, and economic sanctions programs under the Office of
Foreign Assets Control.  He has advised clients on transactions undergoing national
security review under the Exon-Florio Amendment by the Committee
on Foreign Investment in the United States and he represents
clients before the U.S. Departments of Defense, Commerce,
Justice, Treasury, State and Homeland Security.  Dechert has lawyers at 26 offices in the U.S., Europe, Asia
and the Middle East.  Litigation  BP Argues for Access to Transocean Gulf Oil-Spill Insurance  BP Plc should have access to $750 million in Transocean
Ltd.’s insurance to pay costs from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil
spill, a lawyer for the British company told an appeals court.  The oil company yesterday asked the U.S. Court of Appeals
in New Orleans to reverse a decision by U.S. District Judge  Carl
Barbier  barring it from using the policies. Barbier ruled last
year that the drilling contract between the companies for the
doomed Macondo well precluded BP from seeking coverage under the
Transocean policies for pollution-related liabilities.  “BP’s position is that it has unlimited coverage for the
accident,” its attorney  David B. Goodwin (RIG) , a partner at
Covington & Burling LLP, told the court. “BP does not seek
anything more.”  The company contends it should be considered an additional
insured, with access to Transocean’s policies. The drilling
contract didn’t limit access to coverage, BP argues.  Transocean and the insurance companies asked the appeals
court to uphold Barbier’s decision.  The judge ruled that BP can be considered an “additional
insured” under certain circumstances. The judge and the
insurance companies agreed that BP can be an additional insured
only if the policies and the drilling contract are construed
together. Excess coverage would be used after the primary policy
limits are surpassed by the costs of the event.  “If BP’s misinterpretation of the policies prevails,
Transocean stands to lose $750 million in coverage that it
secured for its own Macondo liabilities to a party -- BP --whose
chief executive has candidly admitted is self-insured and who
has never expected its contractors to bear those self-insured
risks,” attorneys  George Hall  and Richard Dicharry, of Phelps Dunbar LLP, and lawyers for the insurers, told the appeals court
in court papers.  The insurance disputes by Lloyd’s and Ranger are combined
with other spill-related lawsuits in In Re Oil Spill by the Oil
Rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010,
2:10-md-02179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Louisiana  (New Orleans); the appeal is In re Deepwater Horizon,
12-30230, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans).  For more, click here.  Hadden’s CME Inquiry Focuses on 1-Minute Period, Lawyer Says  A futures-market investigation of Glenn Hadden, Morgan
Stanley’s global head of interest rates trading, focuses on a
one-minute period in 2008 during which he acted properly,
Hadden’s lawyer, James Benjamin of  Akin Gump Strauss Hauer &
Feld LLP (MS) , said.  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which owns the world’s largest futures
market, is examining “Treasury futures orders placed on the
expiration date in December 2008,” during Hadden’s tenure at
New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc., according to his broker
record with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  “The CME matter concerns technical risk-management
activity in a one-minute period four years ago during which Mr.
Hadden acted properly and followed established market
practice,” Benjamin said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“There is no legal or factual basis for any suggestion of
market manipulation.”  Regulators at the CME are looking at whether Hadden’s
Treasury-futures orders late in the trading day manipulated
closing prices in the market, benefiting his other positions,
the New York Times  reported Dec. 2 , citing unidentified people
briefed on the probe. Morgan Stanley hired Hadden last year to
turn around its lagging rates trading business.  Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley,
said Hadden remains head of global rates and declined to comment
further on his behalf. Hadden didn’t respond to a message
seeking comment.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, and
Kim Taylor at Chicago-based CME Group declined to comment.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  