-- Kyrgyzstan in Talks With U.S. Over Ex-Leader’s Son
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-12-04T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/kyrgyzstan-in-talks-with-u-s-over-ex-leader-s-son.html
Kyrgyzstan ’s government is providing
information to American officials as part of a U.S. effort to
extradite the son of the ousted Kyrgyz president from the U.K.
to face insider-trading charges.  Maksim Bakiyev, the 34-year-old son of former president
Kurmanbek Bakiyev, faces an extradition hearing in  London ,
scheduled for Dec. 7, on U.S. charges of conspiracy to commit
 securities fraud  and obstruction of justice, according to an
Oct. 13 statement from the U.S. embassy in Kyrgyzstan.  Maksim Bakiyev, who served as head of a development agency
in Kyrgyzstan, has been living in the U.K. since fleeing the
Central Asian nation following an April 2010 coup. He is free on
bail, according to the Metropolitan Police.  Kadyr Toktogulov, a spokesman for Kyrgyzstan President
Almazbek Atambayev, said officials are providing information to
U.S. authorities about crimes Maksim Bakiyev is alleged to have
committed in his native country.  “The Kyrgyz government is in contact with relevant U.S.
authorities,” Toktogulov said in a phone interview.  The government accuses Maksim Bakiyev of abusing his
governmental post, misusing at least $300 million in state funds
and  money laundering , Toktogulov said. He said U.S. authorities
may include in their case information about Maksim Bakiyev’s
activities in Kyrgyzstan.  “They will surely be aware of what Maksim has done here in
Kyrgyzstan,” Toktogulov said.  No Comment  Beyond the Oct. 13 statement, the U.S. Justice Department
hasn’t said whether or where criminal charges have been filed
against Maksim Bakiyev. Michael O’Kane, his London-based lawyer,
didn’t return calls seeking comment. Rebekah Carmichael, a
spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice Department, declined to comment
on the extradition proceedings.  The extradition hearing is set to be held before Judge
Quentin Purdy on Dec. 7 in Westminster Magistrates’ Court. The
judge may rule after the hearing, reserve decision until a later
date, or pass the case on to the Secretary of State for the Home
Department, a U.K. agency that handles immigration, counter-
terrorism and criminal matters.  In April federal prosecutors in  Brooklyn ,  New York , accused
U.K. businessman Taiyyib Ali Munir, 30, of aiding a former
“high-level government official” of an unidentified Central
Asian country in an insider-trading scheme from 2010 to 2011.  That official is Maksim Bakiyev, said a person with
knowledge of the case who asked not to be named because the
information isn’t public.  Brooklyn Assistant U.S. Attorney Cristina Posa declined to
comment on the Munir case.  Tyco Trade  According to the Munir complaint, the former Central Asian
official allegedly earned about $2 million from trades on inside
information about Global Industries Ltd. and  Tyco International
Ltd. (TYC)  He lost money on an illegal trade of  InterMune Inc. (ITMN) ,
according to the complaint. Munir was among four people who
supplied illicit tips for the trades, prosecutors said.  Munir pleaded guilty in October to conspiracy for agreeing
to obtain and sell confidential earnings reports of public
companies. He faces as long as six months in prison at his Jan.
24 sentencing.  U.S. prosecutors refer in court papers to a witness
cooperating with them in the insider-trading case. The
cooperating witness, who isn’t named, helped record Munir’s
conversations and was a friend and financial adviser to the
unidentified former Central Asian official, according to court
papers.  Financial Adviser  The cooperating witness is Eugene Gourevitch, a U.S.
citizen who served as a financial adviser to Maksim Bakiyev and
his father, Toktogulov said in the Nov. 8 interview.  Gourevitch is now in an Italian prison pending an
investigation into charges that he engaged in tax crimes and
siphoned $2.7 billion from companies in  Italy , his Rome-based
lawyer, Alessio Di Amato, said in a Nov. 28 phone interview.  Di Amato said Gourevitch came to Italy from New York in
October to be interviewed by Italian investigators. Gourevitch
is also wanted for crimes in Kyrgyzstan, which is seeking to
extradite him from Italy, Di Amato said.  Di Amato said the Italian case is still under investigation
and he declined to comment on whether Gourevitch will deny
charges. Gourevitch considers Kyrgyzstan’s case “totally
ungrounded,” Di Amato said.  Gourevitch’s New York-based lawyer,  Marc Agnifilo , didn’t
return calls seeking comment on the case.  The Munir case is U.S. v. Munir, 12-cr-00648, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  