-- National Policy May Hinder Inter-EU Power Trade, Fingrid Says
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-12-04T10:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/national-policy-may-hinder-inter-eu-power-trade-fingrid-says.html
A patchwork of national energy
policies may restrict cross-border electricity trade in the
European Union similar to a slump in Finnish imports from
 Russia , according to Finland’s grid company Fingrid Oyj.  Power imports from Russia, which met more than 10 percent
of Finnish demand in the past, dropped 64 percent in the first
10 months from a year earlier, Fingrid data show.  The European Commission, the bloc’s regulator, last month
urged governments to avoid changes to power market designs
through mechanisms known as capacity markets that reward
utilities for guaranteeing back-up plants when renewable power
falls short.  Germany  and the U.K. are considering the system.
Finland’s eastern neighbor introduced a capacity tariff that
made it unviable for it to export electricity since August 2011.  “The severe restrictions in power flows from Russia into
 Finland  is a good example for the EU how capacity tariffs can
almost kill electricity trading, due to a lack of co-
ordination,” Juha Kekkonen, Fingrid’s executive vice president,
said yesterday in an interview in Helsinki.  It is likely to remain uneconomical for Russia to export
power to Finland for most of the next months as temperatures
drop, Risto Lindroos, leading expert at Fingrid, said Nov. 28.
This underpins baseload power prices and may contribute to
temporary surges to 30- or 40-fold levels in case of colder-
than-average temperatures, Lauri Konsen, a portfolio manager at
Tampereen Saehkoelaitos, Finland’s fourth-largest utility, said
Nov. 29.  Russian power for baseload delivery today cost 844.57
rubles ($27.30) a megawatt-hour in the Central, Ural and South
Hubs, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with 61.43 euros ($80.29) in Finland, according to data from the
Nord Pool Spot AS exchange.  “Russia’s capacity tariff of circa 25 euros a megawatt-
hour keeps on rising, while the country’s natural gas prices are
gradually climbing to global market levels, which makes it
unviable to ship power to Finland” when also factoring in grid
tariffs totaling less than 10 euro levied on both sides of the
border, Kekkonen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  