-- New York Senate to Be Led by Democrat-Republican Coalition
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-12-04T20:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/new-york-senate-to-be-led-by-democrat-republican-coalition.html
The New York Senate will be led by a
coalition of Republicans and a group of five Democrats who broke
from the party to form their own caucus, marking the first time
power in the chamber will be shared.  The breakaway Democrats will create a permanent caucus
called the Independent Democratic Conference and share power
with the Republicans over the senate agenda and state budget,
according to a joint statement e-mailed today by both groups.
Jeff Klein, the Bronx Democrat who leads the caucus, and Dean Skelos, the Republican leader from Long Island, will alternate
every two weeks as president. The senate president decides which
votes will come to the floor.  “Over the past two years, members of the IDC and Senate
Republicans have shown that the best way to overcome New York’s
biggest challenges is by working in a constructive, bipartisan
way,” Klein said. “Legislating is a deliberative, cooperative
process -- not a spectator sport.”  Republicans were in the majority the past two years.
Governor Andrew Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, relied on them to
help push through a pension overhaul, budgets that cut more than
$12 billion in deficits and a property-tax cap. He also
persuaded four Republican senators to break from their party to
support the legalization of same-sex marriage in 2011.  Policy Differences  With votes still being counted in two Nov. 6 races,
Democrats appeared poised to take over the majority for the
first time since 2008, with 33 seats to the Republicans’ 30. If
the five Democrats hadn’t broken away, the party would have
controlled the entire legislature and the governor’s office.  The power-sharing agreement requires that Senate rules be
rewritten to accommodate the plan.  Specifics of the plan are needed to better understand how
the two groups will handle differences on policy, said Steven Greenberg, a pollster for Siena College in Loudonville, New
York. Klein has said the conference supports increasing the
minimum wage and public financing of political campaigns, both
of which Republicans have rejected.  “It looks like a divorce with joint custody,” Greenberg
said in a telephone interview today. “It’s easy to craft a
press release. It’s much harder to actually implement.”  ‘A Coup’  It’s not the first time Senate leadership has shifted with
the changing alliances of some Democrats. After taking the
majority in 2008, four Democrats -- Bronx Senators Ruben Diaz
and Pedro Espada, Carl Kruger of  Brooklyn  and Hiram Monserrate
of Queens -- refused to back Malcolm Smith as the chamber’s
leader and threatened to join Republicans.  The leadership battle lasted through the first half of 2009
and ended with Democrats still in control, and critics calling
it an example of Albany’s dysfunction.  Smith, a Queens Democrat, said today he’s joining the
conference in its partnership with the Republicans. Klein was
Smith’s deputy during the 2009 power struggle. Mainstream
Democrats said the plan contradicts the will of the electorate.  “This is not a coalition, but a coup against all New
Yorkers who voted for Democratic control of the Senate,” Mike
Murphy, a spokesman for the Senate Democratic Conference, said
in an e-mailed statement. “The real victims of today’s
announcement are the people of our state, whose clearly
expressed desire for progress on a host of issues will now be
scuttled.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany , New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Schoifet at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net  