-- Nexen Price Defies Hedge Fund Cnooc Deal Bets
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-12-05T14:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/nexen-price-defies-hedge-fund-cnooc-deal-bets.html
When  Justin Trudeau , running for
leader of Canada’s third-largest political party, said he
favored  Cnooc Ltd. ’s bid for  Nexen Inc. , lobbyist John
Capobianco got a flurry of calls from investors looking to make
money on one of the last big global mergers of the year.  U.S. investors wanted to know if the move would affect
Canada’s review of the $15.1 billion takeover, even though Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government doesn’t need the support of
Trudeau’s Liberal Party to remain in power.  “When you’re in the U.S., you can get information through
headlines like anybody else but it’s the political climate that
you don’t get from the newspapers that they want,” said
 Capobianco , senior vice president of the Toronto office of
Fleishman-Hillard, a government and public-relations firm.  Hedge funds such as Paulson & Co., run by billionaire  John Paulson , and Farallon Capital Management LLC, founded by former
 Goldman Sachs  Group Inc. trader  Thomas Steyer , have been buying
Calgary-based Nexen stock on bets Canada will approve the deal.  Investors are hungry for any hint from government officials
which way they are leaning on the decision, said  Peter Lobravico , vice president of merger arbitrage at Wall Street
Access, a New York-based brokerage and trading firm.  “Nexen is really the largest pure arbitrage situation out
there right now,” Lobravico said in a phone interview. “If this
deal blows, it’ll ruin everyone’s year.”  Tough Year  The government’s decision on Nexen-Cnooc, which ranks 6th
of 18 of the largest global mergers and acquisitions tracked by
Bloomberg, is slated to be announced by Dec. 10 while  Progress
Energy Resources Corp . said yesterday it expects a decision on a
C$5.2 billion ($5.2 billion) takeover bid from  Petroliam
Nasional Bhd . of Malaysia by the end of the year.  Nexen shares rose 1.8 percent to $24.78 at 9:44 a.m. in New
York, compared with Cnooc’s offer of $27.50. The offer price
represents an 11 percent premium, ranking 16th highest of 113
North American deals tracked by Bloomberg. Progress, based in
Calgary, rose 1 percent to C$20.51 in Toronto. The C$22 per
share bid by state-owned Petronas represents a premium of 7.3
percent.  The outcome of both deals could hurt the 2012 returns of
funds and determine how much capital they can deploy next year,
Lobravico said in a telephone interview.  It’s been a tough year for traders who bet on mergers
closing, Lobravico said. Disappointments include  Coty Inc. ’s
withdrawal of its $10.7 billion bid for  Avon Products Inc.  in
May. Closing of the biggest merger,  Glencore International Plc’s 
$33 billion purchase of Xstrata Plc, has been dragging on since
it was announced in February.  Nexen Stock  Demand for fixed-income securities such as 10-year U.S.
Treasury bonds, which have returned 5.1 percent this year, has
made it difficult for arbitrage investors to outperform other
investment strategies, said Lobravico.  Patti Lewis , a Nexen spokeswoman, and Peter Hunt, a
spokesman for China-owned Cnooc in Calgary, didn’t immediately
return a e-mail message seeking comment on the likelihood of
government approval.  Hedge funds own 34 percent of Nexen stock, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, compared with 3.2 percent of Suncor
Energy Inc., the largest Canadian oil and gas producer by market
capitalization. Paulson & Co.,  Franklin Resources Inc. ,
Arrowgrass Capital Partners LLP, Mason Capital Management LLC
and Eton Park Capital Management LP, all based outside Canada,
bought shares in Nexen in the third quarter, regulatory filings
show.  Policy Framework  Paulson & Co. acquired 6.05 million Nexen shares during the
quarter, according to a filing with regulators that show the
fund’s holdings as of Sept. 30. San Mateo, California-based
Franklin Resources, manager of the Franklin and Templeton mutual
funds, bought 22.7 million shares in the quarter, making it the
second-biggest shareholder at 4.3 percent.  Spokesmen for Paulson & Co., Farallon Capital Management,
Arrowgrass Capital Partners, Mason Capital Management and Eton
Park Capital Management declined to comment on the Nexen
takeover. Matthew Walsh, a Franklin Resources spokesman, said in
an e-mail that the company doesn’t typically comment on
individual securities it owns.  Harper has said he will release a new “policy framework”
on foreign investment around the time of the decisions.  The demand for information -- from comments made by members
of Harper’s cabinet to investors inquiring about the body
language of politicians in briefings with reporters -- has
provided a boon to lobbyists with political ties to the
government such as Capobianco, who ran as a candidate for
Harper’s Conservative Party in 2004 and 2006. Capobianco’s firm
was hired by U.S. investors for advice on the Nexen deal, he
said.  Volatility Rises  Options to hedge against changes in Nexen’s stock price
reached the most expensive in more than a year on Nov. 29,
suggesting Nexen shares are becoming more volatile, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s a lot of rumors flying around,” said  Sam La Bell , an energy analyst with Veritas Investment Research Co. in
Toronto. “If you’re an arbitrager, this is driving you crazy.”  The bids by Cnooc and Petronas are testing Harper’s pledge
to deepen trade and investment ties with Asia even as some
voters are wary of the deal. Fifty-eight percent of Canadians
believe the government should block the Nexen takeover, an
online survey of 1,000 people taken Oct. 10 to Oct. 11 by Angus
Reid Public Opinion showed. The New Democratic Party, Harper’s
main opposition in Parliament, has opposed the bid.  ‘We’re Waiting’  The government blocked the Petronas takeover in October,
only the third time Canada has denied a foreign acquisition in
27 years. Petronas has submitted a revised bid for approval and
Progress Chief Executive Officer  Michael Culbert  said yesterday
he expects Canada to decide by the end of the year.  “It’s really something that’s in the hands of the Canadian
federal government,” Culbert said in a phone interview from
Calgary. “We’re waiting, as others are, and we’ll just wait to
see what transpires here, which we hope to be by the end of the
year.”  Canada also blocked  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40 billion hostile
takeover of  Potash Corp.  of Saskatchewan Inc. in 2010.  It has become common for investors to hire government-
relations consultants since the government rejected the Potash
bid, said  David Simon , founder and chief executive officer of
Twin Capital Management LLC., a hedge fund based in New York
that owns shares in Nexen.  “It’s just like you hire a lawyer in Washington to give
you a read on an antitrust situation,” Simon said in a
telephone interview. “They’re not giving you any proprietary
information. They’re just giving you a view of how the process
is going to work.”  Twin Capital hasn’t employed political lobbyists on the
Nexen or Progress takeovers, he said.  Bird Talk  Hedge funds and other arbitrage investors are looking for
clues about which way Harper is leaning on foreign investment,
as well as the timing of the decisions and the policy framework,
 Sachin Shah , a merger-arbitrage specialist at Tullett Prebon
Americas Corp. based in Jersey City, New Jersey.  “If Harper and all these other guys talk to a bird here
and and a bird there, that bird will talk to another bird and
these guys want to know what that bird is saying,” Shah said in
a phone interview.  ‘Easy Money’  While investors often hire lawyers to advise them on
regulatory matters affecting mergers, the use of political
consultants is increasing, said Tony Baldanza, a partner with
expertise in foreign-takeover deals at Fasken Martineau DuMoulin
LLP, a Toronto-based law firm that has also been providing
government-relations consulting to investors.  “The arbs are looking for every advantage, including
insight into the political dynamics,” Baldanza said by phone.
“This is a high-stakes one, in the sense that there’s easy
money to made if they’re right.”  While the government has until Dec. 10 to rule on Nexen, it
can extend its review with Cnooc’s consent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  