-- Nigeria Holds Talks With Shell, Exxon to Agree on Oil-Tax Reform
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-12-04T14:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/nigeria-holds-talks-with-shell-exxon-to-agree-on-oil-tax-reform.html
Nigeria ,  Africa ’s top oil producer,
said it’s in talks with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and other energy companies to reach an agreement on tax demands
proposed in draft legislation.  “There’s always the intent to try and strike a balance,
particularly from the side of government,” Petroleum Minister
Diezani Alison-Madueke said today at a conference in Abuja.
“There seemed to be such disparity in terms of where we stood
on the fiscals.”  The Petroleum Industry Bill, or PIB, is aimed at increasing
the country’s share of profits from oil pumped off its shores.
The government claims that extraction laws going back to 1993
are based on crude at $20 a barrel and unrealistic at prices
that are now more than four times as high. The energy companies
have warned Nigeria against driving away investment.  “You’ve got to have that interplay and balance between the
fiscal package to be able to incentivize investments,” Mark
Ward, managing director of Exxon’s Nigerian unit, said today.  The country is seeking to increase its share of profits to
73 percent from 61 percent, Alison-Madueke said Sept. 28.  The proposals would reduce Nigerian oil output by about 40
percent, Mutiu Sunmonu, Shell’s local chairman, said Nov. 30.
Shell,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Exxon, Total SA and  Eni SpA (ENI) , which pump
more than 90 percent of Nigeria’s oil in ventures with Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp., said in a joint 2009 presentation that
the higher taxes would make exploration uneconomical.  “The multinationals are really yearning for reform and so
we are not fighting the PIB,” Sunmonu said today at the
conference. “We just want to be sure that the pitfalls in the
provisions of the bill are addressed very clearly before it
comes into law.”  The bill was approved by Nigeria’s Cabinet and sent to
Parliament in July, having initially been introduced to
Parliament more than three years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  