-- Nokia Wins Deal to Sell First Windows Phone 8 Lumia in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-05T17:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/nokia-is-said-to-reach-deal-with-china-mobile-on-lumia-920-phone.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK) , the Finnish mobile-phone
maker trying to win back customers of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
devices using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android, unveiled a version of its
flagship smartphone for China’s largest wireless carrier.  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  agreed to carry the Lumia 920T, which is
compatible with the country’s homegrown TD-SCDMA technology that
powers the carrier’s network, the companies said in a statement
today. The handset, the first Lumia based on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Windows Phone 8 software for the Chinese market, costs 4,599
yuan ($739) without a contract and will go on sale before the
end of this month.  Nokia, which has seen its smartphone market share plummet
in the past five years, is depending on the success of the Lumia
line to help it rebound from  six consecutive quarters  of losses.
The deal with China Mobile, whose network standard has prevented
it from carrying the iPhone, will widen the Hong Kong-listed
carrier’s range of more expensive smartphones to battle for
market share.  China Mobile, the world’s biggest mobile-phone company, had
703 million subscribers at the end of October, including 79.3
million users of high-speed, third-generation services that give
smartphones faster Internet access. The carrier competes with
 China Unicom (762)  (Hong Kong) Ltd. and  China Telecom Corp. (728) , both of
which sell subsidized iPhones.  Shares Jump  Nokia jumped 9.7 percent to close at 2.77 euros in Helsinki
for its biggest increase in four months. Its American depositary
receipts  rose  as much as 6.1 percent yesterday after  Bloomberg
News  reported the agreement. The Espoo, Finland-based company
has a market value of 10.4 billion euros ($13.6 billion). China
Mobile climbed 1.5 percent to HK$89.75.  Apple was down 4.3 percent to $553.33 as of 11:46 a.m. in
New York, after falling as much as 5.3 percent. The stock has 
advanced 42 percent so far this year before today.  “Our close cooperation with Nokia is a key contributor to
the success of China’s TD industry, and will further enhance the
rapidly growing TD ecosystem,” China Mobile Chief Executive
Officer Li Yue said in the statement.  Li said in August that he would boost handset subsidies by
30 percent to 26 billion  yuan  ($4.2 billion) this year as he
fights to maintain its lead in smartphone customers, who
typically download more videos, games and music.  A faster connection and Microsoft’s Windows Phone 8
software are among the features Nokia is touting as the handset
maker tries to lure back consumers. Apple and Android now
control almost 90 percent of Europe’s smartphone market,
according to  Strategy Analytics .  Four Colors  The Lumia 920T comes in black, white, yellow and red, and
features the Pureview floating-lens picture technology that
takes in more light without using a flash.  Nokia’s  shipments  in China slumped 64 percent to 5.8
million units last quarter from a year earlier as consumers
abandoned handsets based on the Symbian software the
manufacturer is phasing out. The company’s third-quarter net
loss widened to 969 million euros from 68 million euros a year
earlier.  The smartphone maker expanded its offering today, unveiling
the Lumia 620, its cheapest Windows Phone 8 smartphone so far.
The device, which comes in a variety of colors, will cost $249
without subsidies and starts shipping next month, Nokia said in
a statement.  Nokia Siemens Networks, the Finnish company’s phone-
equipment venture with  Siemens AG (SIE) , today agreed to sell its
billing and customer-support division to  Redknee Solutions Inc. (RKN) 
in a transaction that will see the transfer of 1,200 workers to
the Canadian company.  --Adam Ewing in Stockholm, with assistance from Edmond Lococo
in Beijing. Editors: Kenneth Wong, Simon Thiel  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  