-- Nokia Siemens Said to Cut 1,000 Jobs After Contract Loss
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-12-04T09:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/nokia-siemens-said-to-cut-1-000-jobs-after-contract-loss.html
Nokia Siemens Networks will announce
the closing of a German services unit tomorrow, with as many as
1,000 jobs lost, after failing to renew a contract with  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , two people familiar with the matter said.  The phone-equipment venture of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens AG (SIE) 
will close the unit after it failed to extend a five-year
contract to service Deutsche Telekom phone cables, and the
announcement will be made tomorrow at a staff meeting in Kassel,
 Germany , said the people, who declined to be identified as the
plans aren’t yet public.  Nokia Siemens is stepping up efforts to reduce costs as the
global network-gear market is shrinking amid phone operators’
spending cuts. The company said last year it will eliminate
17,000 jobs, or about 23 percent of the total, to make the
company sustainably profitable. Those cuts included 2,900
positions in Germany.  The Espoo, Finland-based company said yesterday it agreed
to sell its optical networks business with the transfer of as
many as 1,900 employees to Marlin Equity Partners, and on Nov.
27 it said it will close a site in Bruchsal, Germany, with 650
employees.  The services unit to be closed, based in Nuremberg,
Germany, has about 1,000 employees at 15 sites, according to the
company’s website. Nokia Siemens agreed to buy the unit from
Deutsche Telekom in 2007.  Alexa von Wietzlow, a spokeswoman for Nokia Siemens, and
Christian Schwolow, a spokesman for Deutsche Telekom, declined
to comment.  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  earlier reported the planned closing
of the services unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  