-- Nokia to Sell Finnish Headquarters to Improve Profit
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-12-04T14:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/nokia-to-sell-head-office-for-222-million-in-turnaround-plan.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  agreed to sell its
headquarters as the struggling Finnish mobile-phone maker works
to improve profitability by divesting assets.  Nokia agreed to sell the 48,000 square-meter (517,000
square-foot) glass building overlooking a lake in Espoo,
 Finland , for 170 million euros ($222 million) to Exilion Capital
and start a long-term lease, it said in a statement today. The
company is focusing on winning back smartphone users from Google
Inc.’s Android devices and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones as it divests
assets as part of a turnaround plan.  Nokia sold its Vertu luxury-phone unit to Swedish private-
equity firm EQT Partners in June and agreed to sell its Qt app-
tools unit to Digia Oyj in August.  “Owning real estate is not part of Nokia’s core business
and when good opportunities arise we are willing to exit these
types of non-core assets,” Chief Financial Officer Timo Ihamuotila said in the statement. “We are naturally continuing
to operate in our head office building on a long-term basis.”  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop said the fourth
quarter will “continue the transition” as Nokia moves to
devices based on Microsoft Corp.’s Windows software.  Declining Cash  Nokia’s net cash fell to 3.6 billion euros in the third
quarter from 4.2 billion euros at the end of June. Its cash
reserves have shrunk by about half in the past five years and
will drop below 3 billion euros by year-end,  Standard & Poor’s 
estimated in August. Nokia’s debt is at junk status with the
three main rating companies.  Nokia shares climbed 1 percent to 2.54 euros at 4:27 p.m.
in Helsinki, paring two days of decline. The stock has fallen 33
percent this year, giving the company a market value of 9.52
billion euros.  Nokia Siemens Networks, the phone-equipment venture of
Nokia and Siemens AG, is stepping up efforts to reduce costs as
the global network-gear market is shrinking amid phone
operators’ spending cuts.  Nokia Siemens will announce the closing of a German
services unit tomorrow, with as many as 1,000 jobs lost, after
failing to renew a contract with Deutsche Telekom AG, two people
familiar with the matter said.  The venture will close the unit after it failed to extend a
five-year contract to service Deutsche Telekom phone cables, and
the announcement will be made tomorrow at a staff meeting in
Kassel,  Germany , said the people, who declined to be identified
as the plans aren’t yet public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  