-- Noma Move Over: Best Restaurant Contender Is in Sweden
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-12-04T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/noma-move-over-best-restaurant-contender-is-in-sweden.html
Faeviken Magasinet is one of the
world’s best restaurants.  It needs to be. While it’s not in the Arctic Circle, it
might as well be: Central Sweden is a long way for most of us.  Just reaching the place, housed in an old farm, involves
big travel costs for those without a sleigh. Dinner is 1,250
kronor ($188), wine another 1,250 kronor, and a room for the
night costs 2,000 kronor. Faeviken seats fewer than 20 diners.  If your helicopter can’t make it through the mist, you
drive for a couple of hours on icy roads between snow-covered
fields from  Aare/Oestersund  airport in Sweden or  Trondheim ,
 Norway . When you arrive, the ground is so slippery, you may fall
over, as I did twice. Before I reached the bar.  The evening begins with snacks and drinks before a blazing
fire. The canapes are a fair guide to what is coming. They may
include fresh cheese floating in warm whey with a single petal
of lavender from last summer; trout’s roe served in a warm crust
of dried pig’s blood; braised pig’s head dipped in sourdough and
deep fried with seasoned and fermented gooseberry and pine salt.  The chef is Magnus Nilsson, 29, who honed his skills at
L’Astrance in Paris, where chef Pascal Barbot holds three
Michelin stars. Barbot says, “My job is to be simple.”
Including the snacks, a meal at Faeviken may feature 20 to 25
servings, including a signature dish of a large Norwegian
scallop.  Juniper Trees  It’s heated over fire and served in the shell with its
juices on a bed of moss from the forest outside, with juniper
branches and a lump of glowing charcoal. After drinks in the
ground-floor bar, you climb the stairs to the dining room, to be
greeted by smoke and the smell of trees.  Magical isn’t a bad word for the experience as you dine by
candlelight while the snow falls and the icy winds blow outside.
This is no tourist trap: Faeviken placed No. 34 in the  World’s
50 Best Restaurants  awards (for which I work unpaid) in April,
its debut in the top 50.  Just don’t go thinking the food will be as comforting as
the dining room. Nilsson uses Nordic ingredients and -- to state
the obvious -- it’s not the beautiful, colorful produce of the
Mediterranean. This is a cuisine born of a harsh climate. I
personally don’t mind if I never again taste lactic-acid
fermented turnip, or a fermented carrot for that matter.  Highlights of the meal included skate poached in butter and
vinegar with shallots and a sauce of shallot tops and butter.
Another dish involved marrow from a bone served in the center of
the dining room. The meal ends with some great desserts.  Petit Fours  I first met Nilsson in October, when he was visiting  London 
to promote his book, “Faeviken” -- or Faviken, with two dots
over the first A. He is boyish and charming, and took guests on
a tour of his cold store and his pickling room. That was after a
spectacular array of petit fours, served in the bar.  Nilsson has reservations about comparisons with chef Rene Redzepi’s Noma, which holds the title of world’s best
restaurant, and with the concept of a new Nordic cuisine.  “This term new Nordic cuisine is not one of my favorites
because it’s lumping too many things together: diverse food and
cultures and a large geographical area into one,” he said.  “What I do like is what’s happening in the Nordic
countries at the moment. Noma, which is a great restaurant,
opened the door to Scandinavia for the rest of the world and
brought attention to the area. Thanks to Rene, a lot of other
people -- like me -- have gotten the chance to reach for an
international audience in a much simpler way than before.”  Nordic cuisine may not be for you. I’m not sure it is for
me, though I applaud the creativity of the chefs. But visiting
Faeviken was one of my most exciting dining experiences.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Faeviken Magasinet, Faviken 216, Jarpen. Information:
 http://favikenmagasinet.se/en/  or +46-647-40147. “ Faeviken ”
(or “Faviken”) is published by Phaidon at $49.95.  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,
 Hephzibah Anderson  on books,  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris arts and
 Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in Faviken,  Sweden , at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 