-- Obama’s Sanctimony Proves Who the Real Scrooge Is
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-12-04T23:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/obama-s-sanctimony-proves-who-the-real-scrooge-is.html
As right as Dickens. That’s what U.S.
President  Barack Obama  suggested about his tax plan when he
recently used “A Christmas Carol” by Charles Dickens to frame
his case for rate increases.  A “Scrooge Christmas” is what the country will get if
lawmakers won’t go along with the Obama plan to raise rates on
topmost earners, Obama  warned . The urgent  reference  was to the
stinginess of Ebenezer Scrooge, who at first didn’t realize the
need to share with those who were poorer or less advantaged
around him, such as the clerk Bob Cratchit or Cratchit’s son
Tiny Tim.  The theme of “A Christmas Carol” is that economic
redistribution, sharing more of your shillings, is the only move
for a rich man to make.  Obama admonished the uncooperative Republicans for not
joining him, telling the public that all he needed was  “a few” 
 House Republicans  to get his law passed. Working the “Christmas
Carol” theme for all it’s worth, Obama talked about how the
general automatic tax increase that would result from
Republicans’ refusal to go along with his plan would result in a
dark Christmas, where Santa handed out a “lump of coal” to
individuals. The president even traveled to the closest thing
the U.S. offers to a Victorian Christmas stage set, a toy
factory, to make his rate-increase case.  Moral Unanimity  What stood out about Obama’s argument was his claim of
moral unanimity. Obama treated those who endorse a flat tax as a
 solution  to current tax woes as so out of touch with the
zeitgeist that they don’t warrant mention. The president assumed
that Americans, especially more vulnerable ones, love economic
redistribution as much as they love the greats of literature.  That is not what the evidence suggests.  The ambiguity starts with that essential tool for such
redistribution, the progressive rate structure. Under a
progressive structure, tax rates rise steeply, like stairs in
Scrooge’s house. The first dollar earned is subject to the lower
rates, the last dollar to the top rate to which they are
subject.  From 1913, when the code was introduced, tax scholars
assumed people endorsed progressivity. Studies showed that many
said they did. In the 1950s, for example, 71 percent of pastors
surveyed disagreed with the proposition that a “steeply
graduated income tax violates the moral principle that man is
entitled to the fruit of his labor.”  Early on, however, scholars also found something
disconcerting: Many Americans who endorsed progressive taxation
couldn’t define it. “A popular error under our personal income
tax is to confuse the marginal rate on the last increment of
income and the effective rate on the total income and to
conclude for example that a taxpayer who reaches the 70 percent
bracket is taxed at 70 percent on his total taxable income,” as
authors Harry Kalven Jr. and Walter Blum  reported  in 1953.  If people mixed up the average rate with the marginal, they
were showing automatic attraction for the flat tax, where the
two are the same. And, in any case, if people can’t understand a
tax, they can’t quite be said to endorse it. Kalven and Blum
deemed the case for progressivity “uneasy.”  A more recent study, from 2007, found that some 59 percent
of those polled approved of progressivity as a concept. As the
authors  Ruben Durante  and  Louis Putterman   reported, 41 percent
of those surveyed held a different view. The minority  thought 
either that “people who make more money should pay a smaller
percent in income in taxes,” or that there should be no
correlation between rates and income levels at all.  Opposing Progressivity  An additional finding surprised Durante and Putterman. The
assumption in “A Christmas Carol,” and of Obama, is that the
most vulnerable members of society, the Cratchits, want Scrooge
to cough up a little extra. It turned out that less-educated
Americans, those least likely to earn the kind of income subject
to top rates, endorsed progressivity less often than more
educated Americans.  What the economists Durante and Putterman found clashed
directly with the anti-plutocrat “Christmas Carol” ethos:
Educated or less educated, Democrat or Republican, Americans
overwhelmingly opposed the taxing of bequests. The poorer the
respondents were, the more they supported estate-tax abolition.
These Cratchits didn’t want Scrooge’s money.  What this material tells you is that when it comes to
taxes, Americans are as subtle and varied as Dickens’s cast of
characters. There is no moral unanimity. The president may be
correct when he claims that a majority of voters seem to want
redistribution. Yet he oversteps in suggesting that all do and
in claiming moral high ground. His election to a second term
wasn’t a benediction.  Obama’s sanctimony seems especially out of place given the
ungentlemanly fashion in which he is pressuring the Republicans
on  Capitol Hill . He would force Republicans to take the blame
for all tax increases if they refuse to join his progressivity
crusade. In his preacherly insistence on taking  tax reform  and
indeed the international capital markets hostage, the president
himself prevents consensus.  This is typical of the self-righteous character, as a
writer once noted: “Some people likened him to a direction-
post, which is always telling the way to a place, and never goes
there.”  The name of the author who described the moralizer?  Charles
Dickens .  ( Amity Shlaes , a Bloomberg View columnist, is director of
the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush Institute and author
of the forthcoming “Coolidge.” The opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  