-- Obama Says Boehner Fiscal Plan Is Out of Balance (Transcript)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   R o b i n   M e s z o l y
-- 2012-12-04T20:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/obama-says-boehner-fiscal-plan-is-out-of-balance-transcript-.html
President  Barack Obama  said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today that a Republican offer on
averting the so-called fiscal cliff doesn’t go far enough and
won’t raise the revenue needed to shrink the deficit by $4
trillion over the next decade.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  JULIANNA GOLDMAN , BLOOMBERG NEWS: Mr. President, thank you
for the time.  PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: Thanks for having me.  GOLDMAN: In talks to avoid the fiscal cliff, Speaker
Boehner has made an offer, $800 billion in new revenues without
raising rates, raising the Medicare eligibility age, and also
changing the cost-of-living adjustment for  Social Security . He’s
made his move. The ball’s in your court. When are you going to
come back with a new offer?  OBAMA: Well, I think that, you know, we have the potential
of getting a deal done, but it’s going to require what I talked
about during the campaign, which is a balanced, responsible
approach to deficit reduction that can help give businesses
certainty and make sure that the country grows.  And unfortunately, the speaker’s proposal right now is
still out of balance. You know, he talks, for example, about
$800 billion worth of revenues, but he says he’s going to do
that by lowering rates. And when you look at the math, it
doesn’t work.  And so what I’ve said is that I am prepared to work with
the speaker and Democrats and Republicans to go after excessive
health-care costs in our - in our federal health-care system.
We’re going to have to strengthen those systems, and I think we
can do that without hurting seniors, without hurting
beneficiaries. I think that, you know, there’s probably more
cuts that we can squeeze out, although we’ve already made over
$1 trillion worth of spending cuts.  But if we’re going to be serious about reducing our
deficit, while still being able to invest in things like
education and research and development that are important to our
growth, and if we’re going to protect middle-class families,
then we’re going to have to have higher rates for the wealthiest
Americans, folks like me. And I know that we can do it in a way
that doesn’t hurt small businesses, doesn’t hurt business
confidence, and allows us to be on a pathway to reduce the
deficit over the long term.  GOLDMAN: But this just sounds like the same old Washington
gridlock. Speaker Boehner was here at the White House last night
for a Christmas party. The two of you didn’t even speak. What’s
it going to take to get the two of you in a room to hash this
out?  OBAMA: Well, Speaker Boehner and I speak frequently. And,
you know, I think the issue right now -  GOLDMAN: So when? When will the two of you sit down in a
room?  OBAMA: You know, I don’t think that the issue right now has
to do with sitting in a room. The issue right now that’s
relevant is the acknowledgment that if we’re going to raise
revenues that are sufficient to balance with the very tough cuts
that we’ve already made and the further reforms in entitlements
that I’m prepared to make, that we’re going to have to see the
rates on the top 2 percent go up. And we’re not going to be able
to get a deal without it.  And understand, Julianna, the reason for that. It’s not me
being stubborn. It’s not me being partisan. It’s just a matter
of math. You know, there’s been a lot of talk that somehow we
can raise $800 billion or $1 trillion worth of revenue just by
closing loopholes and deductions, but a lot of your viewers
understand that the only way to do that would be if you
completely eliminated, for example, charitable deductions. Well,
if you eliminated charitable deductions, that means every
hospital and university and not-for-profit agency across the
country would suddenly find themselves on the verge of collapse.
So that’s not a realistic option.  When you look at how much revenue you can actually raise by
closing loopholes and deductions, it’s probably in the range of
$300 billion to $400 billion. That’s not enough to come up with
a balanced plan that actually reduces the deficit and puts us on
the path of long-term stability.  So what I’m going to need, what the country needs, what the
business community needs, in order to get to where we need to
be, is an acknowledgment that folks like me can afford to pay a
little bit higher rate. If we combine that with a  tax-reform 
process and entitlement reform, then we can get to a $4 trillion
deficit reduction package that actually helps our economy grow,
rather than weakens our economy, either in the short term or in
the long term.  GOLDMAN: Well, I want to pick up on the entitlement reform,
because you just said you’d be open to additional changes. Well,
the speaker, Senator  Mitch McConnell , they’ve said that to get a
deal that includes the revenues that you’re asking for, the
Democrats have to give. And last year, you were open to changing
the eligibility age for Medicare, the cost-of-living adjustment.
Is that on the table now?  OBAMA: You know, I am willing to look at anything that
strengthens our system -  GOLDMAN: Do they strengthen the system?  OBAMA: - and makes it - and makes it clear over the long
term that the basic social safety net for our seniors is going
to be there, that Medicare is strengthened, that Social Security
is strengthened, that Medicaid for a lot of families out there
who depend on it, if they’ve got a disabled child or they’ve got
a parent in a nursing home, that those programs are there for
the long haul.  And so I think I’m - I made myself clear, and certainly
both the speaker of the House and Senator McConnell know that
I’m prepared to make some tough decisions on some of these
issues, but I can’t ask folks who are - you know, middle-class
seniors who are on Medicare, young people who are trying to get
 student loans  to go to college, I can’t ask them to sacrifice
and not ask anything of higher-income folks. So -  GOLDMAN: Most of your entitlement cuts have been to
providers, so you’d be open to cuts to beneficiaries?  OBAMA: Well, no, that’s not what I’m saying. What I’m
saying is, I’m happy to look at how we can actually make those
entitlement programs stronger, reduce health-care costs over the
long term. I actually think that the proposals that we’ve put
forward that have $600 billion in additional cuts in mandatory
spending, you know, contain a lot of good ideas. I’m happy to
entertain other ideas that the Republicans may present.  But we are not going to simply cut our way to prosperity or
to cut our way out of this deficit problem that we have. We’re
going to need more revenues. And in order to do that, that
starts with higher rates for the folks that the top.  And the reason again - I want to repeat, Julianna - the
reason I say that is not to punish success or go after folks
just because they’re wealthy. It’s a simple proposition that you
can’t raise enough revenue, and if you don’t raise enough
revenue through closing loopholes and deductions, then it’s
going to be middle-class families who make up the difference.  GOLDMAN: But if you -  OBAMA: And I don’t - and that actually would be bad for
business, because the most important thing - what I’ve - we’ve
been talking to CEOs over the last couple of weeks. The thing
they’re most concerned about is making sure that  consumer
confidence  stays strong, the customers have money in their
pockets. We’re seeing the housing market begin to recover. We’re
seeing, actually, pretty good sales. But the one thing they’re
worried about is, if you’ve got middle-class families suddenly
seeing a big pinch, either because their taxes go up or they
lose their home deduction on their mortgage, or otherwise are
impacted, that can huge reverberations across the economy as a
whole.  GOLDMAN: But do you think you could get the revenues you’re
looking for from raising rates to somewhere in between what they
are now and the 39.6 percent, like 37 percent or 38 percent,
along with eliminating the deductions that you’ve called for? Is
that doable?  OBAMA: Well, one of the things that I’ve suggested is that
- we’re not going to be able to come up with a comprehensive tax
reform package that gets it all done just in the next two weeks.
We’re not going to be able to come up with necessarily a
comprehensive entitlement reform package that gets it all done
in the next two weeks.  When you look at what  Ronald Reagan  did, back in 1986,
working with  Bill Bradley  and others, that was a year-and-a-half
process. So what I’ve suggested is, let’s essentially put a down
payment. On taxes, let’s let tax rates on the upper-income folks
go up.  GOLDMAN: But do they have to go up to 39.6 percent now?  OBAMA: Let - let me sort of describe the process here for
you, Julianna. So let’s let those go up. And then let’s set up a
process with a time certain, at the end of 2013 or the fall of
2013, where we work on tax reform, we look at what loopholes and
deductions both Democrats and Republicans are willing to close,
and it’s possible that we may be able to lower rates by
broadening the base at that point. And I’m happy to work with
them. In fact, I do believe that we can simplify the tax system,
and by closing some loopholes and deductions, and cleaning out
some of the underbrush in the - in the  tax code , that we can
have a fairer, more efficient system.  And on entitlement reform, I don’t expect Republicans to
agree to any plan where they’re just betting on the come that
entitlement reform will happen. We’d have to have some specific
down payments now, recognizing that we would then have to
continue to work to see if we can come up with even better ideas
to reduce-health care costs over the long term.  So that’s the framework that we’re operating on. And within
that framework, I am happy to be flexible. I recognize I’m not
going to get 100 percent. But what I’m not going to do is to
agree to a plan in which we have some revenue that is vague and
potentially comes out of the pockets of middle-class families in
exchange for some very specific and tough entitlement cuts that
would affect seniors or other folks who are vulnerable. That’s
not the kind of balanced plan that I think would be good for
growth, good for the economy, or good for the American people.  GOLDMAN: In 2008, you pledged not to raise taxes on the 98
percent. Can you make that same pledge in a second term?  OBAMA: You know, there is no reason we can’t come up with a
package that makes sure that we’re reducing the deficit without
raising taxes on folks who make $250,000 a year or less. In
fact, the proposal that I’ve put forward would actually give a
 tax cut  or keep a tax cut for 100 percent of Americans,
including the wealthy, just up to their first $250,000 worth of
income. I think this is something that maybe has been lost in
some of the discussions, that, you know, if you make $300,000 or
$500,000 a year, you’d still keep your lower  tax rate  up to your
first $250,000 worth of income. You’d only be paying the higher
rate above $250,000.  And, you know, the budget that I’ve put forward, the plans
that I’ve put forward allow us to protect 98 percent of
Americans, 97 percent of small businesses, and still reduce our
deficit in a meaningful way that stabilizes our debt and brings
down our deficit.  So I hope that that’s the kind of plan that we can come up
with. And that, by the way, would stabilize our debt and
deficits for an entire decade, you know, for 10 years out,
which, you know, would be a significant accomplishment,
considering we’re coming out of the worst recession since the
Great Depression.  GOLDMAN: You’ve been talking a lot about this with the
dozens of CEOs that you’ve brought in here to the White House.
Many executives say that an important step toward improving your
relationship with business would be to bring a top business
executive onto your economic team. Is that something you’re
considering? Will you do that?  OBAMA: Not only is it something I’m considering, I’d love
to do it. It’s something I would have loved to have done in the
first term. I’ll be honest with you. Actually, one of the
biggest problems we’ve got in terms of recruiting business
leaders into the administration is the confirmation process has
become so miserable, so drawn out, that for successful folks to
want to put themselves through that process, you know, a lot of
folks are just shying away.  You know, you have to put your life on hold. You may end up
getting caught up in some partisan battle up on the Hill that
has nothing to do with your own qualifications. And so I - one
of the things I hope for in my second term is, is that the
confirmation process goes forward in a much smoother fashion in
my second term.  But, you know, we’ve - I had a lot of conversations with
business leaders in my first term, and they have been very
helpful on a whole range of issues. You know, my interest in
continuing to expand trade opportunities and continuing to
double our exports is something that they care deeply about.  My interest in making sure that we have the best workforce
in the world, that’s something they care deeply about. Making
sure that we have strong control of our energy agenda, including
natural gas, that we’re seeing that is driving down energy costs
and helps us attract manufacturing back to the  United States ,
that’s something that the business community cares about.  Immigration reform, including making sure that high-skilled
folks are able to stay here, that’s something they care about.
So - and obviously, deficit reduction in a balanced way they
care about.  So when you look at this whole package, I think that
there’s a lot of confluence between my agenda and the business
community’s agenda. And, by the way, one of the things that I’ve
been talking to them about is, how can we streamline regulations
so that, you know, we don’t have the kinds of unnecessary
regulation that may be impeding investment and - and growth over
the long term?  GOLDMAN: So you’re talking to them a lot about deficit, but
are you pushing them to start hiring? I mean, because the
American people - we’re in a jobs crisis right now, when the
attention in Washington is focused just on the debt talks.  OBAMA: You know, in conversations I’ve had with CEOs, what
they tell me is, we are ready to invest and we’re ready to hire,
but we want a little bit of certainty out there. And what’s
missing is not only a deal on long-term deficit reduction,
what’s also missing is some pro-growth steps that we could be
taking right now.  For example, you know, I’ve suggested as part of a deal
that we got done before the end of the year, that we pull up
some money to put people back to work rebuilding our roads and
our bridges. That traditionally hasn’t been a partisan issue.
And if we put folks back to work right now, combining with a
strengthening housing market, we could really see a great boost
in demand.  Another thing that CEOs have mentioned is making sure that
if we do get a deal done now, that we don’t have another crisis
two or three months from now because of the debt ceiling, what
we went through back in 2011. You know, the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, which is hardly an arm of my administration or the
 Democratic Party , I think said the other day, we can’t be going
through another debt crisis - debt ceiling crisis like we did in
2011. That has to be dealt with.  So I think businesses are going to be ready to hire. We’re
seeing pretty strong consumer confidence, despite weaknesses in
 Europe  and even in  Asia . I think America is poised to take off.
And the question is, let’s make sure that we don’t have a self-
inflicted wound, because there are a lot of silly games played
up on  Capitol Hill .  GOLDMAN: Just one final question. In the midst of all the
partisan bickering on the economy, there’s been another highly
politicized flare-up. Have Republicans’ attacks against UN
Ambassador  Susan Rice  sort of boxed you into a corner? Would it
be - would it look like a sign of weakness if you did not
appoint her to secretary of state?  OBAMA: No, I - you know, I don’t really spend a lot of time
on, you know, what folks say on cable news programs, attacking
highly qualified personnel like Susan Rice. I’m going to make a
decision about who’s going to be the best secretary of state,
given we’ve got a changing world, and there are great
opportunities for the United States to show leadership around
the world. There are a lot of challenges and dangers, as well.
And I’m going to make sure that we’ve got a full national
security team that can give me the best advice possible and do
everything they can to keep the American people safe. And Susan
Rice has done a great job as UN ambassador, but I haven’t made a
decision about secretary of state.  The most important thing we can do for national security,
though, is to get our economy on track. And we are in a very
strong position - as I travel around the world, it’s
fascinating. European leaders, Asian leaders, they all say to
me, America actually is poised to be the world leader for
another century, if we can fix some of this political
dysfunction.  And, you know, there are some very simple steps that we can
take. Number one, let’s not raise taxes on middle-class
families. That’s something we could do right now.  Number two, let’s have a smart, long-term deficit reduction
program that includes us doing some things right now that would
help with  job creation .  Number three, let’s not manufacture another debt ceiling
crisis.  And, number four, let’s make sure that we’re making the
kinds of investments in education and workforce development,
energy independence, infrastructure, and research and
development that ensures that we’re innovating as we have in the
past.  And so, you know, we’ve got a lot of national security
challenges, but if we get our economy together and if we can get
our political system to work well, I am really confident about
our future.  And the business community has an important role to play in
that. I recognize that, in the first four years, my relationship
with the business community sometimes was skewed, because we’re
trying to do some tough things like health-care reform and most
particularly around welfare -Wall Street reform and - and Dodd-
Frank.  But in conversations I’ve had with CEOs, what I’ve
encouraged them to tell me is, how can - how can we work
together so that you can succeed? Because, you know, my goal, my
interest is to have businesses large and small all across
America be able to compete all around the world and to put
people back to work right here in the  United States of America .
And we still have the best business folks, the best workers, the
most innovative economy, the best free-market system. And all
the ingredients are in place; we just need to bring them
together. And I think the end of 2012 would be a good time to do
it.  GOLDMAN: Mr. President, thank you for the time.  OBAMA: Thank you so much. Appreciate it.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 