-- Location-Tracking Apps Would Need Permission in U.S. Bill
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-12-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/location-tracking-apps-would-need-permission-in-u-s-bill.html
Smartphones, mobile applications and
in-car navigation devices would be required to get permission
from consumers before collecting and sharing location data under
legislation to be considered by a U.S. Senate committee this
week.  Senator  Al Franken , a Minnesota Democrat who introduced the
measure last year, released a revised version yesterday to let
companies get one-time approval from users rather than seeking
permission every time location data is collected or shared. The
Senate Judiciary Committee is scheduled to consider the measure
tomorrow.  Franken, chairman of a Senate Judiciary subcommittee on
privacy, technology and the law, is one of several lawmakers who
have focused on how technology companies collect information on
the location of users and share that data with third parties
including advertisers and data brokers.  Franken held a hearing on mobile privacy last year with
executives from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , following a report
that the operating system of Apple’s iPhones and iPads logged
users’ coordinates along with the time a location is visited.
Apple later issued a software update to limit how much location
information was being logged or let users turn off the feature.  The revisions by Franken contain additional language
specifying that restrictions don’t apply to law enforcement. The
measure is co-sponsored by Democratic Senators Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut,  Chris Coons  of Delaware,  Richard Durbin  of Illinois,  Robert Menendez  of New Jersey and Dianne Feinstein of California and independent Senator Bernie Sanders
of Vermont.  The Senate Judiciary Committee last week approved a bill
that requires authorities to get a search warrant to obtain
older e-mails, updating a 1986 privacy law that in some cases
lets police get access to e-mails that are more than 180 days
old without a judge’s permission.  The Franken bill is S. 1223.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  