-- Lockheed-Boeing Launch Monopoly to Be Ended by Pentagon
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-12-04T22:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/lockheed-boeing-rocket-launch-monopoly-to-be-ended-by-pentagon.html
The U.S. Defense Department plans to
open more than a dozen rocket launches to competition, moving to
end a monopoly held by a Lockheed Martin Corp.- Boeing (BA)  Co. joint
venture.  The Air Force is authorized to buy as many as 14 booster
cores over the next five years from potential challengers such
as Space Exploration Technologies Corp., known as SpaceX and
headed by billionaire Elon Musk, and Orbital Sciences Corp.,
Frank Kendall, the Pentagon’s top weapons buyer, wrote in a Nov.
27 memo obtained by  Bloomberg News . A booster core is the main
component of a rocket.  The service may also buy as many as 36 cores from the
Lockheed-Boeing venture over the same period, with an option to
purchase the additional 14 from it, if competitors aren’t ready,
Kendall wrote. The venture, United Launch Alliance LLC, is the
sole supplier of medium- and heavy-lift rockets for military and
spy satellites in a program estimated to cost $70 billion
through 2030.  “I direct the  Air Force  to aggressively introduce a
competitive procurement environment,” Kendall wrote.  The contracts for newcomers may be awarded as early as
fiscal 2015 for missions that can be flown as early as fiscal
2017, Kendall wrote. The missions could still go to the
alliance, though, “if competition is not viable at time of
need,” he wrote.  Cost Increases  The Pentagon is trying to control rising launch costs. It
estimates the program, known as Evolved Expendable Launch
Vehicle, will cost $69.6 billion for 150 launches through fiscal
2030. The government’s fiscal year begins Oct. 1.  The average launch cost, including research and
development, has more than doubled to $464 million from a
previous figure of $230 million, according to the Pentagon.  Driving the increases are “unstable demand for launch
services, turbulence in the international civil-commercial
launch market and its associated supply base, and a business
relationship with the supplier that has not been conducive to
controlling costs,” Kendall wrote in a July 12 letter to
congressional defense committees.  Also a factor was last year’s retirement of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration’s shuttle fleet, which
forced engine suppliers to spread reduced demand over large
fixed costs.  ‘Good Step’  The joint venture between the government’s two largest
contractors -- Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed and Chicago-
based Boeing -- was created in 2006 to provide reliable and
affordable launch services.  Jessica Rye, a spokeswoman for Centennial, Colorado-based
United Launch Alliance, didn’t immediately return a phone call
and e-mail seeking comment.  “This appears to be a good step as there has been
uncertainty about opportunities for competition,” Cristina Chaplain, a Government Accountability Office official who
follows military space programs, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We will be assessing the implementation of the directive.”  Musk, chief executive officer of Hawthorne, California-
based SpaceX, welcomed the Pentagon’s decision.  “This is a watershed moment for the US Government’s
national security missions,” he said in a statement. “The
United States Air Force should be commended for opening launches
to new entrants and restoring competition to the EELV program.”  Resupply Missions  SpaceX in October completed its first of at least a dozen
planned resupply missions to the International Space Station
under a $1.6 billion contract with  NASA . The company lists its
Falcon 9 rocket for $54 million per liftoff.  Orbital (ORB) , based in Dulles,  Virginia , has a similar contract
with NASA valued at $1.9 billion for at least eight cargo
missions to the station. The company plans to offer its new
 Antares (ANT)  rocket for less than $100 million per launch. The rocket
is scheduled to make its first flight this month or next.  Barron Beneski, a spokesman for Orbital, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call and e-mail requesting comment.  Separately, SpaceX, Orbital and Lockheed yesterday won
seats on a $900 million contract with the Air Force to launch
smaller satellites. The deal is part of an effort by the service
to set aside at least two missions to certify that the smaller
companies are capable of carrying larger national-security
payloads.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  