-- Oerlikon to End Asset Sales After Natural-Fibers Disposal
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-12-04T12:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/oerlikon-to-sell-650-million-textile-units-to-china-s-jinsheng.html
OC Oerlikon Corp. (OERL) , the world’s
largest maker of textile machinery, won’t seek to sell more
units after announcing the disposal of its solar and natural-
fibers divisions, Chief Executive Officer Michael Buscher said.  Oerlikon agreed to sell its natural-fibers and textile-
components units, with an enterprise value of 650 million francs
($703 million), to Chinese investor Pan Xueping’s Jinsheng Group
in Buscher’s biggest divestment yet. The deal, announced
yesterday, will bring proceeds of 450 million francs to 500
million francs to Pfaeffikon, Switzerland-based Oerlikon, the
CEO said.  “This is a strategic transformation of the business,”
Buscher said today in a phone interview, adding that he’s now
happy with Oerlikon’s divisional structure. “We see more value
in further developing the units we have and reducing
complexity.”  The sale is Buscher’s most decisive step since taking over
in 2010, moving Oerlikon away from its traditional machinery
base. Buscher completed the sale of a solar unit to  Tokyo
Electron Ltd. (8035)  last week and divested other peripheral units,
including a smaller textile-equipment business, in July.  Oerlikon  shares  rose as much as 7.4 percent and were up 1.5
percent at 10.25 francs at 1:43 p.m. They have more than doubled
this year.  Russian Billionaire  The engineering firm, whose largest shareholder is Russian
billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg , the world’s 42nd-richest man, has
climbed in value to 3.3 billion francs. That compares to about
1.7 billion francs a year ago.  Oerlikon acquired natural-fiber machinery and textile-
component businesses in 2006 when it  bought  Saurer AG in a 1.32-
billion franc deal led by Austrian investors Ronny Pecik and
Georg Stumpf, the controlling shareholders at the time.  That acquisition included a gear unit that remains an
Oerlikon division. The natural-fibers and textile components
businesses will be renamed Saurer under Jinsheng.  Buscher is selling those assets after the natural-fibers
unit suffered from declining margins amid slowing demand for
cotton-spinning machinery. Oerlikon started talks with
interested parties in mid-summer, Buscher said. He declined to
give further details about the number or identity of bidders.  Artificial Fibers  The units being sold accounted for about a quarter of
Oerlikon’s 4.2 billion francs in revenue in 2011 and have about
3,800 employees, according to a statement yesterday. Oerlikon
said it will focus on more profitable equipment to make man-made
fibers, which account for 33 percent of sales.  Sharpening the focus will help Oerlikon put a value on its
textile business and support the stock, Benjamin Glaeser, an
 analyst  at Berenberg Bank in  London , said yesterday before the
divestment was announced.  “The market is applying a large valuation discount to
Oerlikon’s textile business due to its natural-fiber exposure,”
he said in a note to investors.  Oerlikon raised its full-year forecast after announcing the
sale, predicting revenue growth to exceed 5 percent with an
order intake close to last year’s level and an operating margin
gain of about 1 percentage point on its previous outlook. The
company said it expects to close the sale in the third quarter
of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  