-- Oklahoma Health-Care Act Suit’s Dismissal Sought by U.S.
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-12-05T00:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/oklahoma-health-care-act-suit-s-dismissal-sought-by-u-s-.html
Oklahoma’s lawsuit contending a key
part of President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care reform
legislation is blocked by the state’s constitution should be
thrown out, lawyers for the U.S. said in a court filing.  “Oklahoma lacks standing to sue the federal government to
deprive its residents of the benefits of federal law,” U.S.
Justice Department attorneys argued in papers filed yesterday in
federal court in Muskogee, Oklahoma.  State Attorney General  Scott Pruitt , a Republican, filed
the lawsuit in January 2011, about 10 months after the president
signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
that made the acquisition of basic health insurance mandatory
for almost all Americans. That part of the law takes effect in
2014.  In November 2010, Oklahomans voted to amend the state
constitution to bar any rule or law that compels a person, an
employer or health-care provider to participate in a health-care
system.  The U.S. Supreme Court in June upheld most of the federal
health-care law, including the purchase mandate, which it deemed
a valid exercise of of Congress’s power to levy taxes.  In September, Pruitt filed a revised complaint in which he
said the individual mandate remained inoperable in his state. He
also challenged U.S. tax rules on the establishment of health-
insurance exchanges to make coverage available for residents.  IRS Rule  Pruitt said in the complaint that the state wouldn’t
establish such an exchange.  While the Affordable Care Act treats states differently,
depending on whether they establish an exchange or leave that
task to the U.S. Health and Human Services Department, an
accompanying Internal Revenue Service regulation eliminates that
distinction.  “If the final rule is permitted to stand, federal
subsidies will be paid under circumstances not authorized by
Congress, employers will be subjected to liabilities and
obligations under circumstances not authorized by Congress,”
according to the revised complaint, “and states will be
deprived of the opportunity created by the Act to choose for
itself whether creating a competitive environment to promote
economic and job growth is better for its people than access to
federal subsidies.”  Tax Credits  “ Oklahoma ’s lawsuit has never been about the policy or
politics of the affordable care act,” Pruitt said in a
statement today responding to the U.S. dismissal request.  The lawsuit is about the legality of the accompanying IRS
rule and ensuring that the federal government complies with its
own law, the attorney general said.  The Obama administration argued in its filing that, without
a health-insurance exchange, about 380,000 Oklahoma residents
would forgo tax credits worth an average of $5,000 a person and
some large employers who don’t offer qualifying coverage would
face tax penalties.  Federal law prevents Oklahoma from asking the court to
block the U.S assessment of that penalty or payment of those
credits, according to yesterday’s filing.  “Oklahoma’s generalized assertions of the purported
economic effects of the Act’s tax credits and tax penalties do
not state an actual injury that could support its claim of
standing,” according to the U.S. brief.  The case is  State of Oklahoma  v. Sebelius, 11-cv-00030,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Oklahoma (Muskogee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  