-- Olam’s Bond Sale Only Delays Collapse, Muddy Waters Says
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-12-04T09:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/olam-s-biggest-bond-sale-only-delays-collapse-muddy-waters-says.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) ’s planned
$1.25 billion sale of securities will only postpone the likely
collapse of the commodity trader, according to  Muddy Waters  LLC,
the research firm led by short-seller  Carson Block .  The sale of a record $750 million in bonds and as much as
$500 million of warrants announced yesterday “validates our
thesis that Olam is in danger of failing,” Muddy Waters said
today in a response to the raising that’s backed by Temasek
Holdings Pte, Singapore’s state investment company.  Olam, the world’s second-largest rice trader, and Muddy
Waters have engaged in a public war of words since Block, a 36-
year-old former lawyer, said last month said he was selling Olam
shares short -- borrowing them to profit by buying them at a
lower price later. Olam Chief Executive Officer Sunny Verghese,
who sued the research firm and Block on Nov. 21 in the  Singapore 
High Court, described the sale as a vote of confidence from
Temasek and showed its ability to get funding.  “More than anything this move is to give comfort to the
market, to get that confidence back up,” Tanuj Shori, a Nomura
Holdings Inc. analyst based in  Hong Kong , said by phone. “This
issue may take time to resolve because it’s too subjective.”  Shares of Olam, also one of the world’s three largest
coffee traders, climbed 1.6 percent to S$1.60 at the close of
trade in Singapore. The stock has declined 8.1 since Block made
his initial allegations on Nov. 19.  Bonds React  Olam’s $500 million, 5.75 percent notes due September 2017
rose to 88.4 cents on the dollar today from a record low of 83.2
cents Nov. 30, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
bonds were quoted at 97 cents on the dollar Nov. Olam’s planned
sale of bonds, announced yesterday, would be its largest public
issue to date, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The debt sales raise questions over whether Olam was
running short of cash in recent days, Muddy Waters said. Olam’s
associate general manager of investor relations Hung Hoeng Chow
said she couldn’t immediately comment on the allegation.  Temasek, Olam’s  second-largest shareholder , agreed to buy
any of the $1.25 billion in bonds and warrants not taken up by
other investors. Credit Suisse Group AG, DBS Group Holdings
Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. will underwrite
the transaction in full, Olam said.  “This is a strong vote of confidence we are seeing from
Temasek, our long-term strategic shareholder,” Olam’s Verghese
said at a press conference in Singapore yesterday. “This
transaction also demonstrates the ability to access both debt
and equity capital markets, even in current conditions.”  Position Reversed  The capital raising was also a “180-degree reversal” of
Olam’s earlier position on not raising more debt in the near
future, Muddy Waters said. The agricultural commodities trader
has six to eight months before failing due to its unsustainable
debt position and cash burn, Block said today in an interview on
CNBC.  Olam will need about S$3.5 billion of fixed capital in the
next four years, 40 percent of which would come from equity
derived from retained earnings, and 60 percent from new debt,
Verghese said Nov. 28. The company won’t issue any new equity,
he said.  The $1.25 billion offer is aimed mainly at repaying
borrowings and addressing any “lingering doubts” about Olam’s
liquidity, Verghese said. It is not a sale of equity, which
minimizes dilution, and is about removing “nervousness” from
around the company’s bonds, he said.  Minimize Dilution  “Because it’s not an equity rights offer, it minimizes
current dilution, which is one of the boundary conditions,”
Verghese said. The company has “sufficient equity for the
current horizon, which is up to 2016,” he said.  The management’s intention with the capital raising is to
relieve pressure on refinancing debt due in the next year and
set a lower 8 percent benchmark yield for the  debt market , said
James Koh, an analyst with Maybank Kim Eng, in a note today.  The move may hurt short-sellers because scrip lenders will
have to call for borrowed stock in order to participate, Koh
said. Still, it undermines management’s earlier stance that it
could easily survive 12-18 months even in a credit market
seizure, the analyst said, cutting Olam’s rating to sell from
hold.  Olam, whose debt isn’t assessed by any ratings company, has
the equivalent of $5.8 billion of debt outstanding, of which
$2.89 billion is in bonds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Muddy Report  Muddy Waters said in a 133-page report last week that it
valued  Olam on a “liquidation basis, because our opinion is
that it is likely to fail.” The research firm said Olam had
committed a number of “accounting gaffes” over the years and
will need to raise or refinance as much as S$4.6 billion of debt
over the next year to remain solvent.  Olam, which counts Ernst & Young LLP as its auditor, is
using the firm to “deflect questions about its accounting,”
according to Muddy Waters.  Separately, the Ontario Securities Commission yesterday
alleged Ernst & Young failed to conduct its audits of now-
insolvent Chinese tree-plantation operator Sino-Forest Corp. in
accordance with accounting industry standards.  The tree-plantation operator, which was a target of Muddy
Waters, slumped 74 percent before eventually filing for
 bankruptcy protection  in March. Ernst & Young yesterday agreed
to pay C$117 million ($118 million) to settle claims in a
Canadian class action suit against Sino-Forest, in the largest
settlement by an auditor in Canadian history.  Olam was founded in 1989 in  Nigeria  by the Kewalram Chanrai
Group as an export company to secure foreign currency, according
to Olam’s website. Kewalram Singapore Ltd. is Olam’s top
shareholder with a 20 percent stake, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  