-- Olam Says Banks Didn’t Raise Credit Concerns on Bond Sale
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-12-05T10:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/olam-says-banks-didn-t-raise-credit-concerns-on-bond-sale.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity trader that Muddy Waters LLC alleges is in danger of
default, said banks hired to help sell $1.25 billion in bonds
and warrants didn’t raise concerns about its credit position in
discussions with shareholder Temasek Holdings Pte.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , DBS Bank Ltd.,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM)  “confirm that there was no mention of
any concern regarding Olam’s credit position in their
discussions with Temasek,” which is supporting the bond sale,
Singapore-based Olam said in a  statement  on its website.  Tim Nicholls, HSBC’s Hong Kong-based spokesman, and Marie
Cheung, JPMorgan’s Hong Kong-based spokeswoman, declined to
comment beyond Olam’s statement. Josephine Lee, Credit Suisse’s
spokeswoman, also in Hong Kong, and  Karen Ngui , DBS’s Singapore-
based spokeswoman, weren’t immediately available to comment.  Temasek has nothing to add to Olam’s statement,  Stephen Forshaw , spokesman of  Singapore ’s state-owned investment company,
said in an e-mail.  Olam, the world’s second-largest rice trader, and  Carson Block ’s Muddy Waters have engaged in a war of words since 36-
year-old Block said last month he was selling Olam shares short
-- borrowing them to profit by buying them at a lower price
later -- because he expected the company to fail due to mounting
debts. Olam Chief Executive Officer Sunny Verghese, who sued the
research firm and Block on Nov. 21, described the sale as a vote
of confidence from Temasek.  ‘Independent Assessment’  The Singapore-based trader rejected a theory by  Muddy
Waters  that the banks may have refused to lend more money to the
company if Temasek didn’t provide additional support. Temasek,
Olam’s second-largest  shareholder , “made its own independent
assessment” before deciding to back the sale of bonds and
warrants, the company said.  Olam shares dropped 5.3 percent, the most in a week, to
close at S$1.515 in Singapore. They have declined 13 percent
since Nov. 19, the day Block first made his allegations.  Olam’s $500 million, 5.75 percent notes due September 2017
were quoted at 88.8 cents on the dollar as of 5:37 p.m. in
Singapore, up from a record low of 83.2 cents reached Nov. 30,
according to Bloomberg prices.  Biggest Issue  The bonds were quoted at 97 cents on the dollar Nov. 19.
Olam’s planned sale of bonds, announced Dec. 3, would be its
largest public issue to date, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Olam, also one of the three largest coffee traders,  said 
Temasek would buy any bonds or warrants not sold in an offering
underwritten by Credit Suisse, DBS Bank, HSBC and JPMorgan. The
inclusion of Singapore state-owned  investment company  Temasek in
the sale was “aimed at reducing uncertainty about Olam in both
the bond and equity markets,” according to the Dec. 3 statement.  Temasek’s support for the debt offer amounted to a
temporary bailout by the Singaporean investment company, Block
said yesterday in an interview on CNBC.  “This would be a situation where Temasek had to choose
between bad and worse,” Block said, adding Olam probably had
six to eight months before failing due to its unsustainable  debt
position  and cash burn.  Lengthy Report  In a 133-page report last week, Muddy Waters said that Olam
was “likely to fail,” citing a number of “accounting gaffes”
and would need to raise or refinance as much as S$4.6 billion
($3.78 billion) of debt during the next year to remain solvent.  Block, research director of Los Angeles-based Muddy Waters,
has successfully bet against Chinese companies that trade in
 North America  after raising doubts about their accounts. One
target, tree-plantation operator Sino-Forest Corp., slumped 74
percent before eventually filing for  bankruptcy protection  in
March.  Muddy Waters profited from taking a short position in Sino-
Forest, based in  Hong Kong  and Mississauga, Ontario.  Olam was founded in 1989 in  Nigeria  by the Kewalram Chanrai
Group as an export company to obtain foreign currency, according
to Olam’s website. Kewalram Singapore Ltd. is Olam’s  top
shareholder  with a 20 percent stake, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  