-- Oracle to Accelerate Payment for Three Quarterly Dividends
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-12-04T21:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/oracle-accelerates-payments-of-three-quarterly-dividends-1-.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  accelerated dividend
payments for its next three quarters, joining a list of
companies that have moved up payouts ahead of a potential U.S.
tax increase next year.  The world’s largest supplier of database software said it
will pay one dividend of 18 cents a  share , instead of three
separate 6 cent-a-share payments for its fiscal second, third
and fourth quarters of 2013. Oracle will issue the dividend on
Dec. 21 to  stockholders  of record on Dec. 14, the Redwood
Shores, California-based company said yesterday in a statement.  Larry Ellison , Oracle’s chief executive officer and its
largest shareholder, didn’t participate in the deliberation or
vote, the company said. The dividends would otherwise have been
paid in calendar 2013, it said.  Oracle, which is also the  second-biggest maker  of business
management applications, joins more than three dozen companies
that have announced plans to pay special dividends ahead of a
potential rise in taxes next year related to the so-called
fiscal cliff.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) ,  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , and
 Brown-Forman Corp. (BF/A)  -- the maker of Jack Daniel’s whiskey and
Finlandia vodka -- have announced plans to pay special dividends
in recent weeks.  Payouts this year are subject to a 15 percent U.S. levy
that may rise to as high as 43.4 percent if lawmakers allow $600
billion of scheduled tax increases and spending cuts to take
effect in 2013. Rates may also rise if Congress amends the tax
code to avoid the cliff.  Oracle spokeswoman  Deborah Hellinger  declined to comment on
whether the company’s dividend action was related to the
potential tax increases.  The company’s shares rose less than 1 percent to $32.38 at
today’s close in New York. The stock has gained 26 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  