-- Osborne Said to Save 2.5 Billion Pounds on PFI-Funded Services
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-12-04T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/osborne-said-to-save-2-5-billion-pounds-on-pfi-funded-services.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  will announce an overhaul of privately financed
state services with the aim of deepening cuts to government
running costs, said people familiar with the plan.  Osborne will tell Parliament tomorrow that about 1.5
billion pounds ($2.4 billion) have been saved so far and another
1 billion pounds is expected from the changes, said the people,
who declined to be named because the plans aren’t yet public.
The Private Finance Initiative model will be replaced with a
system that aims to speed up the tendering process and provide
more clarity for taxpayers.  It marks the conclusion of a year-long process to overhaul
a system that has come under attack from lawmakers for not
serving the best interest of taxpayers. Osborne will spell out
the proposals when he presents his autumn statement to
Parliament tomorrow.  The Public Accounts Committee of the House of Commons said
on May 2 that the government should scale back the use of PFI
when the only benefit of using it is to keep debt off the
government’s balance sheet. More than 700 projects have been
financed through PFI in the last two decades, which the cross-
party panel said had generated too much profit for investors and
restricted competition.  Britain has liabilities of 40 billion pounds from PFI
projects used to build and run hospitals, schools, prisons,
courts and roads.  The PF2 model will give taxpayers a share in new projects,
giving the public a minority stake in ventures and a
representative on their governing boards, said the people.
Tender times will be cut to a maximum of 18 months from as
long as five years and the public will be able to make use of
any facilities without extra charges.  Profit Disclosure  Osborne will say the new system will require companies to
disclose how much profit they make and give them better
access to information about projects, the people said.  It will seek money from investors rather than
allowing them to use debt to finance deals, with the aim of
attracting pension funds and institutional investors, the people
said. Osborne will also set a cap on off-balance sheet charges,
they said.  The Treasury found savings of 615 million pounds by making
better use of building space, cutting energy use and renting
out facilities to private users, the people said. It saved a
further 630 million by cutting back on management consultants
and other external advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  