-- Hospital Incentives Help Babies Determine Own Birth Dates
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-04T23:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/hospital-incentives-help-babies-determine-own-birth-dates.html
The evidence has been in for some
time. Scheduling births may be convenient for physicians,
hospitals and expectant parents, but it  generally isn’t good  for
the health of mothers and children. It’s expensive to boot.  To get a baby to arrive on schedule, doctors often perform
a  cesarean section , the most common surgery in the U.S. Since
1996, C-section rates have risen every year to 33 percent of all
births in 2009. According to the World Health Organization, the
right figure for any country is about 15 percent. The desire to
deliver by appointment also prompts doctors to  induce labor , for
instance by injecting mothers with a hormone or breaking the
amniotic sac. Induction rates have doubled over two decades to
23 percent in 2009.  These procedures are sometimes medically necessary -- a
cesarean, for instance, when the baby is in the breech position,
or induction when the baby is more than two weeks overdue. Their
elective use, however,  has contributed  to babies being born too
early. From 1990 to 2009, the percentage of U.S. babies
delivered at 37 to 38 weeks  increased  from 19 percent to 27
percent. These newborns aren’t technically premature, but a
growing body of  research  shows they are vulnerable. According to
a  study  published last year, children born at 37 weeks are twice
as likely to die in their first year as those born at 40 weeks.
They have significantly more  health problems  as well.  These complications tax the health system. Weak newborns
often wind up in neonatal intensive care units, which can cost
$2,500 a day. Even when all goes well, a cesarean section,
because it is surgery, costs 60 percent  more  than a vaginal
delivery, averaging $24,300 versus $15,200.  As hospitals and insurers struggle to contain expenses, a
confluence of interests emerges. By reducing elective birth
interventions, providers and insurers can cut costs while
mothers and newborns achieve better health.  A two-year  effort  in Washington state shows the
possibilities of such an approach. After studying records from
across the state, Washington health authorities concluded that
15 percent of the 80,000 annual births were elective deliveries
at 37 to 39 weeks; no medical reason for a C-section or
induction was given.  To discourage unnecessary surgeries, the state shaved off
$1,000 from the $7,000 to $10,000 in Medicaid payments hospitals
received for uncomplicated C-sections, saving $3 million a year.
( Medicaid  covers about half of all births in  Washington , as in
the rest of the country.)  On top of that disincentive, an incentive was added. The
state legislature created a $10 million reward to be shared by
hospitals that showed marked improvement on five patient-health
measures, including reducing optional early births.
Consequently, hospitals began requiring physicians to document a
medical reason for every delivery before 39 weeks; others
required all such births to be approved by a senior medical
officer. For some, educating staff about the risks of delivering
at 37 to 39 weeks was sufficient to bring rates down.
Significantly, the effort is led by a committee,  the Washington
State Perinatal Collaborative,  that includes doctors.  The initiative’s results have been impressive.  Elective
early deliveries  have been reduced 77 percent, from 15 percent
of births to 3.4 percent; in the last year, 600 babies who would
have been delivered before 39 weeks were born after. The
perinatal group is using data it collected on C-section rates to
help hospitals and physicians zero in on best practices.  A handful of other states are experimenting with measures
to reduce optional early births. Others should look to
Washington’s proven success and model the virtues of its
program.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 