-- Most Asian Stocks Decline as U.S. Manufacturing Shrinks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-12-04T10:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/most-asian-stocks-decline-as-u-s-manufacturing-shrinks.html
Most Asian  stocks  fell after U.S.
manufacturing unexpectedly shrank and American lawmakers
grappled with new budget proposals. Losses were limited as
 China ’s Shanghai Composite rebounded from the lowest in almost
four years.  James Hardie Industries SE, the building materials
suppliers that counts the U.S. as its biggest market, slid 1.2
percent in Sydney.  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) , Asia’s biggest casino
company, sank 5.8 percent in Hong Kong as China arrested junket
operators. Guangzhou Automobile Group Co., the partner of Toyota
Motor Corp. in China, climbed 3.1 percent as sales of Japanese
automakers started to recover from the impact of the territorial
dispute between the two nations.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.08 point, or less than
0.1 percent, to 124.74 as of 7:43 p.m. in  Tokyo , with seven
shares falling for every six that rose. The measure advanced 14
percent through yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as
central banks added stimulus to spur economic growth and data
showed China’s slowdown may be ending.  This manufacturing data is a “setback to the U.S. economic
recovery,” said Cameron Peacock, a market strategist at IG
Markets Ltd. in  Melbourne . “Once again, there were few tangible
signs of any material progress on the fiscal cliff, the single
biggest issue in markets right now and one that will influence
how all asset classes trade into year-end.”  Interest Rates  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.6 percent. The
nation’s home-building approvals declined more than economists
forecast in October, a sign that lower borrowing costs have yet
to boost housing demand. The Reserve Bank of Australia lowered
its overnight cash rate at its policy meeting today, in line
with economists estimates.  South Korea’s Kospi Index and  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock
Average both lost 0.3 percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index
slipped 0.1 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index added 0.2
percent.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.8 percent,
rebounding from the lowest close since January 2009. The gauge
will rally 48 percent within nine months after its decline below
1,960 signaled selling has climaxed, according to Tom DeMark,
the creator of indicators to show turning points in securities.  The index will advance to 2,900 after its decline produced
a buy signal on the Sequential and Combo charts, designed to
identify market tops and bottoms, said DeMark, who has spent
more than 40 years developing market-timing indicators.  ‘Last Seller’  “Everyone is negative on SHCOMP index, absolutely
everyone,” DeMark wrote in an e-mail, referring to the Chinese
benchmark gauge’s ticker symbol. “And now is the perfect
environment to make a low and be positive as the last seller,
figuratively speaking, has sold.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.1
percent today. The S&P 500 lost 0.5 percent yesterday as an
unexpected contraction in manufacturing added to concern about
the potential economic toll from the so-called fiscal cliff,
which would trigger more than $600 billion of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts next year if lawmakers fail to come
up with a budget deal.  The Institute for Supply Management’s U.S. factory index
fell to 49.5 in November from 51.7 a month earlier, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
projected a reading of 51.4, according to the median of 83
forecasts. A number below 50 indicates a contraction.  Republican Proposal  House Republicans, rejecting President  Barack Obama ’s
demand for tax-rate increases, proposed $1.4 trillion in
spending cuts and $800 billion in new revenue by limiting tax
breaks and capping deductions for top earners. The proposal was
contained in a letter yesterday to Obama from House Speaker John
Boehner and other Republican leaders.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said
Republicans in Congress will be responsible for hurting the
economy if they refuse to raise tax rates on the highest-income
earners as part of a deal.  Exporters to the U.S. declined. James Hardie slipped 1.2
percent to A$9.06 in Sydney. Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings Ltd.,
a maker of shoes for Nike Inc., dropped 1.7 percent to HK$26.55
in Hong Kong.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , a South Korean electronics
maker that gets about 30 percent of sales in North America,
decreased 1.8 percent to 75,800 won.  Advantest Corp. (6857) , the biggest producer of memory-chip
testers, dropped 3.6 percent to 1,060 yen. Credit Suisse cut its
rating to underperform from outperform and lowered its share-
price forecast to 900 yen from 1,100 yen.  Casino Operators  Macau casino operators dropped. China arrested people from
the Macau’s biggest junket operators, which provide financing to
high-stakes gamblers, according to The Wall Street Journal.
Gambling revenues from the world’s biggest gaming venue
increased less than analysts estimates last month.  SJM Holdings sank 5.8 percent to HK$17.24. Sands China Ltd.
decreased 4.4 percent to HK$31.35.  Galaxy Entertainment Group
Ltd. (27) , founded by billionaire Lui Che-Woo, slid 4.5 percent to
HK$27.55.  Japanese paper manufacturers dropped after Bank of America
Merrill Lynch downgraded their investment ratings, citing
declining prices of printing paper and packaging products.
 Hokuetsu Kishu Paper Co. (3865)  slipped 2.9 percent to 432 yen. Oji
Holdings Corp. slid 3.5 percent to 250 yen.  Chinese Automakers  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced last week amid
optimism U.S. lawmakers would agree on a budget deal to avert
the fiscal cliff and as the front-runner to become the next
Japanese prime minister repeated calls for stimulus. The gauge
traded at 13.8 times estimated earnings, compared with 13.6
times for the S&P 500 and 12.5 times for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  Chinese automakers advanced as the decline in Japanese car
sales in the world’s biggest economy narrowed last month,
signaling a recovery from the impact of a territorial dispute
between the two nations. Guangzhou Automobile climbed 3.1
percent to HK$6.26 in Hong Kong. Dongfeng Motor Group Co., which
makes cars for Nissan Motor Co., jumped 5.4 percent to HK11.28.  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)  gained 2.2 percent to S$1.61 in
Singapore. The supplier of agricultural commodities said it will
offer $750 million in bonds and as much as $500 million in
warrants to existing shareholders. The city-state’s Temasek
Holdings Pte, Olam’s second-largest shareholder, agreed to buy
any rights not taken up by other investors, Olam said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  