-- Housing Gains Boost Fed’s QE as Rally Spurs Growth: Economy
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-12-04T21:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/housing-rebound-boosts-fed-easing-as-rally-spurs-growth-economy.html
A revival in the U.S. housing market
is amplifying the impact of the  Federal Reserve ’s efforts to
spur the world’s largest economy.  Home values boosted by record-low  mortgage rates  are
helping improve the finances of both households and banks.
That’s easing the flow of credit, providing a further boost to
the housing market and the economy, say economists at Bank of
America Corp. and Deutsche Bank AG.  “We’re in the very early stages of a reinforcing cycle,”
said  Michelle Meyer , a New York-based senior economist at Bank
of America, the second-biggest U.S. lender by assets. “The Fed
has been quite impactful.”  Meyer predicts monthly housing starts could exceed 1
million at an annual rate by the end of 2013, compared with
894,000 in October. Residential construction may add to economic
growth this year for the first time since 2005, boosting gross
domestic product by 0.3 percentage point, said Deutsche Bank’s
 Joseph LaVorgna . That  contribution  may double next year and
reach 1 percentage point when related industries such as
furnishings and remodeling are added, he said.  “The one thing missing from this economic recovery was a
healthy contribution from housing, and we might finally be on
the cusp of that,” said LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist for
Deutsche Bank in New York, who predicts GDP may grow about 2.5
percent in 2013. “Housing is going to be integral to the
economy. We’re assuming it continues to do some of the heavy
lifting.”  Securities Purchases  The Fed in September announced it would buy $40 billion a
month in mortgage-backed securities in its third round of so-
called quantitative easing.  The central bank’s purchases of housing debt have helped
drive borrowing costs to all-time lows. The average fixed rate
on a 30-year mortgage was  3.32 percent  last week, close to the
prior’s week’s 3.31 percent that was the lowest on record,
according to  Freddie Mac .  U.S.  home prices  jumped  6.3 percent  in October from a year
earlier, the biggest increase since June 2006, data provider
CoreLogic Inc. said today.  Combined sales of new and existing dwellings climbed to a
5.16 million annual pace in October, up 40 percent from July
2010, which was the lowest since comparable data began in 1999.
The S&P/Case-Shiller  index (S15HOME)  of home prices in 20 cities climbed 3
percent in September from a year earlier, the biggest gain since
July 2010.  ‘An Accelerator’  “Monetary policy is working,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva, a
U.S. economist at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “What we’ve seen
is a very robust housing recovery this year, particularly in
prices. It’s kind of an accelerator for other sectors of the
economy, consumption in particular.”  Stronger demand is boosting sales at builders such as  Toll
Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S. luxury-home builder, which today
said revenue jumped 48 percent to $632.8 million in the three
months ended Oct. 31, while net contracts signed surged 75
percent.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index,
which includes Toll Brothers and PulteGroup Inc. among its 11
members, has climbed 77 percent this year, compared with a 12
percent increase for the broader  S&P 500 (SPX)  Index. PulteGroup, up
171 percent this year, is the biggest gainer in the  S&P 500 .  Stocks Slump  The benchmark gauge of U.S. equities slumped 0.2 percent to
1,407.05 at the 4 p.m. close of trading in New York after
President  Barack Obama  held his ground about raising tax rates
for the highest-income Americans. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note retreated 0.02 percentage point to 1.60 percent.  “If we can get ourselves into a positive, virtuous circle
here with rising house prices, rising construction, improving
employment, I think that part of that process will be easing of
mortgage-lending conditions,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
Nov. 20 in response to audience questions after a speech in New
York.  The central bank’s efforts “are having the desired
effects” by reducing mortgage rates, San Francisco Fed
President  John Williams  said in a Nov. 14 speech, and the
housing rebound “should be a key driver of economic growth.”  To be sure, housing is “far from being out of the woods,”
in Bernanke’s words. Sales and prices are below pre-crisis
levels, and about 20 percent of borrowers owe more than their
homes are worth, Bernanke said in Nov. 15 speech in Atlanta.
Residential investment now accounts for 2.5 percent of nominal
GDP, down from a peak of 6.3 percent in 2005.  Hurdles Remain  Builders sold fewer new homes than forecast in October and
purchases were revised down for the prior month, showing the
industry still faces hurdles such as an  unemployment rate  that’s
stuck around 8 percent three years into the economic recovery.  Williams last month said the central bank will probably
start buying $45 billion a month of Treasuries next year in
addition to the current $40 billion of debt purchases. The
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  meets Dec. 11-12.  “The unemployment rate remains unacceptably high,” New
York Fed President William C. Dudley said in a speech yesterday.  Still, for those with jobs, low  interest rates  are a boon.
Among them are Danny and Pat Yorkovich, who decided to buy a
bigger house after 18 years in their current residence. They
signed a contract on a new, three-bedroom ranch-style home in
Charlotte, North Carolina, in November.  “The interest rates were good,” said Danny Yorkovich, 44,
who works as an office manager. “We didn’t owe anything on the
home we had, and had been saving up and waiting for the right
time to purchase.”  Household Items  New-home sales ripple through the economy as buyers spend
an average of $8,000 on household items, including furniture,
appliances and landscaping, according to  David Crowe , chief
economist for the Washington-based National Association of Home
Builders.  That’s benefiting companies like Atlanta-based  Home Depot
Inc. (HD) , the largest U.S. home-improvement retailer, and Lowe’s
Cos., the second-biggest, which both reported higher third-
quarter profit as sales rose. Shares of Home Depot have climbed
53 percent this year, while Mooresville, North Carolina-based
Lowe’s is up 40 percent.  Even those who aren’t moving are spending more on
furnishing and remodeling, according to  Robert Niblock , chief
executive officer of Lowe’s.  “The bottoming of home values gives that homeowner
psychological permission to spend on their homes again,”
Niblock said in a Nov. 19 telephone interview.  Cutting Debt  Household finances are improving, putting consumer demand
on a stronger footing. Americans have cut debt by $1.37 trillion
from the peak in 2008, according to Federal Reserve Bank of New
York data. Household indebtedness shrank by $74 billion to
$11.31 trillion during the third quarter.  Lending tied to real estate is reviving. After six years of
declines, home equity lines of credit will rise 30 percent to
$79.6 billion in 2012, the highest level since the start of the
financial crisis in 2008, according to Moody’s Corp.  The Fed’s record easing policy is “a very big part” of
why banks are becoming more inclined to make home loans,
Bernanke said Nov. 20.  The benefits of lower borrowing costs and the housing
industry’s improvement are starting to accrue for both the
broader economy and the Fed’s monetary policy, according to Guy Berger, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based U.S. economist at RBS
Securities Inc., one of the 21 primary dealers authorized to
trade directly with the Fed.  “Housing is gumming up the economy and financial markets
less than it was,” Berger said. “The housing market’s
improvement does give a little bit more bang to the buck.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  