-- HP Remains Committed to Autonomy Amid Accounting Claims
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-12-04T21:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/hp-unveiling-software-from-embattled-autonomy-unit.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive
Officer  Meg Whitman  said the Autonomy software unit, an acquired
business that contributed to an $8.8 billion writedown amid
allegations of financial misreporting, can still boost sales.  “We remain 100 percent committed to Autonomy’s industry-
leading technology and its employees,” Whitman said at a
customer  conference  in Frankfurt today. Autonomy’s technology is
“incredible” and will help to spur growth at  Palo Alto ,
California-based Hewlett-Packard, she said, adding that the unit
is essential to the company’s progress.  At the Discover conference, which runs Dec. 4 to 6,
Hewlett-Packard is releasing new software in its Autonomy line
of data-analysis tools that help companies comply with local and
federal rules.  Whitman is aiming to eke growth from Autonomy, which she
and fellow board members agreed to buy for $10.3 billion last
year. Hewlett-Packard accused former managers of the software
company of misrepresenting sales, saying that “serious
accounting improprieties” were responsible for $5 billion of
the writedown.  “We’ve turned over the investigation to the SEC in the
 United States  and the  Serious Fraud Office ” in the U.K.,
Whitman said today at the Frankfurt conference when asked about
Hewlett-Packard’s contact with former Autonomy executives.
“That’s all I’m prepared to say on the issue.”  Latest Blow  The company said Nov. 20 that Autonomy booked hardware
sales to appear as more profitable software, and used
 transactions  with resellers of its software to accelerate
revenue recognition or fabricate sales.  The Autonomy charge is the latest blow for leadership at a
company that’s suffered through years of botched deals,
management tumult and strategic missteps. Hewlett-Packard has
plunged more than 70 percent since it ousted former CEO  Mark Hurd  in August 2010.  Former Autonomy Chief Executive Officer Mike Lynch, in an
open letter, last month  challenged  Hewlett-Packard’s board to
explain allegations that former Autonomy managers misled
investors and prospective acquirers with falsified statements.
Hewlett-Packard rejected the request, saying it has uncovered
extensive evidence of improper bookkeeping and that it’s leaving
the matter with government officials.  Management Changes  The stock rose 5.1 percent to $13.53 at the close in  New
York , and has more than recouped its losses since the Autonomy
writedown was announced. The  shares  have declined 47 percent so
far this year.  HP today named Mike Nefkens executive vice president of its
enterprise services. Nefkens had been holding this position on
an interim basis since August, when HP replaced John Visentin,
the executive who’d been promoted to the job by former CEO  Leo Apotheker .  Whitman took the reins last year in September from
Apotheker, whose 10-month tenure was marked by strategy shifts
and sales-forecast shortfalls.  The Discover conference will also feature an address on
Dec. 5 from personal-computer and printing group head  Todd Bradley , and the company plans additional product announcements
at the conference.  Hewlett-Packard is also updating a separate tool called
Vertica Analytics Platform that can analyze large volumes of
data from companies’ on-site computer programs and the Web.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  