-- Paris Faces Darkness as City Set for Illumination Ban
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-12-04T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/paris-faces-darkness-as-city-of-light-set-for-illumination-ban.html
Paris’s legendary label as the “City
of Light” may soon lose some of its luster.  The French minister for energy and environment unveiled
last week a proposal for lights in and outside shops, offices,
and public buildings -- including the flagship  Louis Vuitton 
store and the  Lido cabaret house  on Paris’s Avenue des Champs
Elysees -- to be turned off between 1 a.m. and 7 a.m. starting
in July. The plan, to be applied across French cities, towns and
villages, is aimed at saving energy and money and showing
“sobriety,” Minister Delphine Batho said.  The move has provoked an outcry from merchants, who say the
government is being insensitive to France’s image as the
world’s  No. 1 tourist destination . They say the rule, on top of
existing bans on Sunday store openings and night shopping, will
hurt business at a time when the French economy has barely grown
for a year and unemployment is at a 14-year high.  “Great! Another positive message sent to citizens and to
tourists: the city will go dark!” said Sofy Mulle, vice-
president of the  France ’s Commerce Council, which represents all
of the country’s  650,000 merchants  employing about 3.5 million
people. “We are ready to make efforts, but the government is
cutting a fine line between sobriety and austerity. Surely, we
can work out environmentally friendly solutions that have less
impact on our society and our economy.”  For Paris, the government’s plan -- final details of which
are still being worked out -- is likely to fray its historical
banner of “La Ville Lumiere,” earned both because of its fame
as a center of ideas and learning in the Age of Enlightenment
and later by its early adoption of street lighting.  Sarkozy Plan  The lights-out idea, mooted under former President  Nicolas Sarkozy , is being pushed through by the Socialist government of
President  Francois Hollande , who was elected in May.  Sarkozy’s effort was part of a broader European plan to
improve  energy efficiency  by 20 percent by 2020. In January, his
government passed a measure that took effect in July, forcing
stores and businesses to turn off neon lights highlighting their
names -- of which there are 3.5 million in France, according to
the energy ministry -- between 1 a.m. and 6 a.m.  “The original plan was crazy: they wanted to have all
lights turned off one hour after store closures,” Claude Boulle, head of the  City Centre Merchants  association said.  Merchants, including Boulle and Mulle, said part of their
image is to have non-stop lighting because it conveys the idea
of a place that’s always warmly welcoming for shoppers.  “Also, lights from buildings and shops are part of public
lighting and it brings security,” Boulle said. “Even if there
aren’t millions of people taking a stroll in the middle of the
night, light still means security for those who are.”  ‘A Museum’  Beyond security, Boulle said the plan would further
diminish Paris’s allure as a shopping destination when stacked
up against London, Madrid or Berlin.  “We’re becoming a museum, falling asleep after sunset,”
he said.  Paris’s large department stores such as  Galeries Lafayette 
and Printemps in the center of the French capital are famous for
their elaborately designed window displays -- especially during
Christmas -- that stay on all night, making them tourist
attractions all on their own. Officials at the two stores
declined to comment on the new rule.  Shop windows on the Avenue des Champs Elysees and on Avenue
Montaigne, Paris’s Rodeo Drive, will also go dark.  The city’s tourism board recommends “Parisian Urban
Pleasures,” including night strolls through the capital’s
winding streets and along the Seine river and morning espressos
in famous cafes.  Tourism Industry  The “petit bonheurs,” or small pleasures, include a night
promenade on the  Pont de Arts  and waiting for sunrise on the
steps of Sacre Coeur basilica, on the hillock behind the Pigalle
area. All of these pleasures may be dimmed by the new rule.  The tourism industry accounts for 6.5 percent of French
gross domestic product and directly employs 900,000 people,
according to government figures.  According to the tourism board’s data for 2011,  Paris  drew
8.5 million foreign visitors who stayed for at least one night
in a hotel and spent an average of 146 euros ($191) a day.
London got  15.2 million  visitors spending 102 pounds ($164) a
day.  New York  City got 10.6 million visitors,  Shanghai  about 8
million.  France remained the world’s most-visited country with 81.4
million foreign tourists last year, a rebound after three
consecutive years of decreases.  Eiffel Tower  The Energy Ministry says the rule won’t mark a big change
from the current situation, pointing out that lights at Paris’s
304 monuments, churches, statues, fountains and bridges, are
already being turned off at night.  The  Eiffel Tower ’s lights are turned off at 1 a.m. after a
last glittery splash. Over the last decade, the illumination of
the Notre Dame cathedral has been brought down to 9,000 watts
from 54,000 watts.  Denis Baupin, a former Greens aide to Paris Mayor Betrand
Delanoe, had pledged to cut the city’s public lighting
consumption by 30 percent by 2020 from its 2004 levels.  “One of our main objectives is to change the culture,”
Energy Minister Batho said on Nov. 29 on BFM Television and RMC
Radio. “We need to end the cycle of producing more because we
are consuming more. There should be sobriety in energy use.”  To be sure, the measure has its supporters. Beyond the
Green party, activist groups including the  Neon Clan , Energy
Fishermen or Zero Watt have led actions to unplug illuminated
shop signs and advertisement boards, including those of BNP
Paribas SA bank, SFR mobile phone shops and a Club Med store in
the town of Grenoble in the French Alps last July.  Misplaced Project?  France’s  Association to Protect the Sky and the Night
Environment , which participated in government talks to write the
rule, says the law will help France be more energy efficient.  Night lighting uses the energy produced by one nuclear
plant of 1,300 megawatts in one night, the association says.  “There is no intention to put us all into darkness or
frighten Japanese tourists,” said Alain Fleury, an ANPCEN
representative. “We can find a balanced way to consume and not
always push for more, brighter or stronger. We are wasting too
much,” Fleury looks after the Paris suburban area, which is
home to  Disneyland Paris .  He said French towns and villages waste the most energy,
while Paris is heading on the right path.  “I hear those who say it shouldn’t become a sleepy
museum,” he said. “Surely, there is a middle way.”  For light-bulb -and lighting-systems makers, the
government’s project is misplaced.  Only 10 percent of France’s total lighting consumption is
made at night, the industry says, calling on other, more
efficient energy savings.  “Lighting has a social role, it serves as a reference
point,” said Elise Bourmeau, vice-president of the  Lighting
Union . “We will adapt. But truly, there are solutions that
would allow us to keep them on in an energy efficient way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  