-- Paulson Said to Blame Bet Against Europe for Most of Loss
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-12-04T23:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/paulson-said-to-blame-bet-against-europe-for-most-of-loss.html
John Paulson , manager of $20 billion
in  hedge funds , told investors that the bulk of his losses this
year came on bets that the European sovereign-debt crisis would
worsen, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Paulson, speaking to clients at his firm’s annual meeting
yesterday in  New York , said he has reduced those positions
following European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s
comments in July that the ECB was committed to preserving the
euro, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the meeting was private.  Paulson said in a February letter to investors that the
euro was “structurally flawed” and would eventually fall
apart. In April, the founder of New York-based Paulson & Co.
told clients he was wagering against European sovereign bonds
and buying credit-default swaps on European debt, or protection
against the chance of default.  Paulson’s Advantage Plus fund, which seeks to profit from
corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies and uses
leverage to amplify returns, lost 3 percent in October and was
down 17 percent in the first 10 months of this year. The
Advantage strategy, which includes the firm’s similar Advantage
Plus fund, has $6 billion in assets. Paulson Credit
Opportunities, the firm’s largest strategy, with $6.1 billion in
assets as of the third quarter, rose 3.8 percent in October and
6 percent this year.  Paulson lost 51 percent in his Advantage Plus Fund in 2011,
mostly on a failed bet on an economic rebound.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson & Co., declined to
comment on the meeting.  Hires, Departures  Paulson said his firm added seven investment staff members
this year and five departed, leaving the team at 52 people,
according to the person, who attended the meeting at the Time
Warner Center in  Manhattan .  Among the departures was Nikolai Petchenikov, who had
worked at Paulson & Co. for 12 years and was a managing director
in  London , Paulson said, according to the person. The firm hired
Mark Gordon, a former Soros Fund Management LLC employee, to
focus on energy; Rajeev Shah, formerly of Soundpost Partners LP,
for technology; and Ned Dybvig, previously of Camulos Capital LP
and Soros’s firm, for distressed investments, Paulson said,
according to the person.  Paulson also said one of the bright spots in the  U.S.
economy  is the recovery in housing, according to the person.
Paulson, 56, became a billionaire in 2007 by betting against
subprime mortgages. He started buying residential and commercial
mortgage securities in late 2008 and 2009. Other hedge-fund
managers who have reversed bets against the U.S. housing market
include Kyle Bass of Hayman Capital Management LP and Greg Lippmann of LibreMax Capital LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  