-- PetroVietnam CEO Says Chinese Ships Cut Cables ‘By Accident’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-04T09:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/petrovietnam-ceo-says-chinese-ships-cut-cables-by-accident-1-.html
Chinese fishing vessels accidentally
cut the cables of a  Vietnam  Oil & Gas Group seismic ship doing
work in Vietnam-controlled waters of the  South China Sea ,
according to Chief Executive Officer Do Van Hau.  “ China  cut the cables by accident,” he said by phone
today. “It’s unlike last time when they intentionally cut our
cables.”  PetroTimes , a newspaper run by the company, quoted Pham
Viet Dung, deputy head of exploration, yesterday accusing the
Chinese fishing vessels of “harassing” the Binh Minh 2 survey
ship when the cables were cut on Nov. 30. State-run PetroVietnam
made repairs on Dec. 1, the report said.  The incident occurred as China presses its claims to most
of the South China Sea over the objections of Vietnam and the
Philippines, which reject its  map  of the waters as a basis for
joint oil and gas development. Last year, Chinese vessels cut
the cables of a PetroVietnam survey ship and chased away a boat
in waters delimited by the  Philippines .  China’s foreign ministry is still “verifying the
situation,” spokesman Hong Lei said. The incident took place in
waters claimed by both countries, he said, and “Chinese fishing
boats were engaging in normal fishing activity in that part of
the sea.”  The incident with PetroVietnam took place about 20 miles
west of the median line between Vietnam and China in the Gulf of
Tonkin, PetroTimes reported. The two countries reached an
 agreement  to delimit waters in the gulf in 2000.  ‘Cannot Accept’  Earlier this year, PetroVietnam warned China to halt
efforts to develop disputed areas of the South China Sea that
Hanoi’s leaders have already awarded to companies including
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and OAO Gazprom. China National Offshore Oil
Corp., the government-owned parent of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , deployed
China’s first deep-water drilling rig in May near disputed
islands.  Vietnam “cannot accept” any move by China to tap
resources in areas that fall within its continental shelf or
exclusive economic zone, Deputy Foreign Minister Pham Quang Vinh
said in a Nov. 28 interview in Hanoi. That refers to an area of
sovereignty stretching 200 nautical miles from a country’s
coastal baseline, according to the United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea.  Freedom of Navigation  The South China Sea may hold 213 billion barrels of oil,
equivalent to 80 percent of  Saudi Arabia ’s reserves, according
to Chinese studies  cited  in 2008 by the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. China, the world’s second-largest economy,
claims “indisputable sovereignty” over most of the sea.  China’s government last week reaffirmed its commitment to
freedom of navigation in the South China Sea after Philippine
President  Benigno Aquino  called for it to clarify a report that
police would start interdicting ships in disputed waters.  “China attaches importance to freedom of navigation in the
South China Sea and at the moment there’s no problem in this
regard,” Hong Lei said on Nov. 30, adding that issues should be
resolved through “friendly” consultations. The official Xinhua
news agency reported on Nov. 27 that authorities in Hainan
Island province empowered police to seize and expel ships that
illegally enter its waters.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  