-- TPG Picks Up Pieces in Netherlands Bondholder Wipeout: Mortgages
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-12-05T12:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/tpg-picks-up-pieces-in-netherlands-bondholder-wipeout-mortgages.html
A short drive from the center of the
city of Utrecht is all it takes to grasp the crisis in the
 Netherlands ’ office market, where bondholders have been wiped
out and investors such as TPG Capital and Patron Capital Ltd.
are picking up the pieces.  About 5 miles (8 kilometers) south of downtown Utrecht,
buildings in the town of Nieuwegein are festooned with
billboards offering offices to rent. The local government
estimates a third of the space is empty, compared with a 1
percent vacancy rate around the central rail station in Utrecht,
the fourth-largest Dutch city.  A surplus of suburban office parks built with easy credit
in the past decade has doubled the national vacancy rate to
about 14 percent, according to DTZ Zadelhoff. Values have fallen 
by 20 percent  since 2008. While that’s prompted some investors
to duck the Dutch market, others see a chance to buy as falling
values create some of  Europe ’s highest rental returns.  “There are properties coming onto the market now that five
years ago I couldn’t imagine we could buy,” said Allard van
Spaandonk, who oversees  Bouwinvest Real Estate Investment
Management ’s 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion) of Dutch property
investments. After shunning the market for two years, the firm
may use 200 million euros it has available to make purchases, he
said, declining to be more specific.  Inadequate Provisions  Some investors are waiting for prices to fall further
because lenders have been reluctant to take writedowns. The
central bank said last month that the 110 billion euros of loans
secured by Dutch commercial real estate are a “specific cause
of concern” because of inadequate provisions. It joined the
Netherlands’ financial regulator in calling for “realistic”
valuations.  When prices have dropped, buyout firms like Patron and TPG
were able to acquire assets cheaply. The firms took over more
than 200 offices and industrial properties owned by Uni-Invest
Holding NV in August after a 600 million-euro default.  “The Uni-Invest deal is widely regarded as signaling the
bottom of the market,” said Jaap van Dijk, who is overseeing
the sale of Dutch lender  SNS Reaal NV (SR) ’s entire 8 billion-euro
commercial real estate loan portfolio. The company has racked up
1.5 billion of writedowns since acquiring ABN Amro Holding NV’s
property-finance unit in 2006 and must repay a government
bailout by the end of next year.  First Default  It was also the result of Europe’s first commercial
mortgage-backed securities to default on maturity. Patron
Capital and TPG were able to get the properties after their
offer was accepted by Uni-Invest’s senior creditors, ending a
two-year holdout by junior bondholders who recovered none of the
242.9 million euros they were owed. The buyout firms sold some
properties in high-vacancy areas, stepped up efforts to lease
space and earmarked a fifth of the properties for conversion,
such as into housing, or demolition.  “We are going to be able do things that weren’t possible
in the past for financial reasons,” said Laurens Feleus, a
partner at Patron. “We haven’t knocked anything down, but there
are a number of buildings where it’s probably going to happen.”  Falling office values lifted the income return from a prime
property to 5.65 percent, or 5 percentage points more than the
yield on a benchmark five-year Dutch government bond. The spread
is among Europe’s highest, said Simon Durkin, European head of
research at RREEF Real Estate,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s property-asset
management unit. While returns are attractive, Durkin is wary.  ‘Vulnerable Assets’  “The underlying fundamentals don’t appear strong and could
make some assets vulnerable,” he said.  Vacancy rates in Amsterdam and Rotterdam are among Europe’s
highest along with Athens and Dublin, broker  Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc.  said. If little changes, vacancies nationwide could rise to
20 percent in coming years, Utrecht-based SNS Reaal predicts.  DTZ Zadelhoff estimates that 2 million square meters, or 28
percent of vacant space, needs to be demolished or converted to
alternative uses.  The liquidation of German real estate mutual funds, which
own 2.9 billion euros of Dutch property, is another factor
affecting the Dutch market, according to  Jones Lang .  Fourteen loans sold as CMBS and backed by Dutch offices are
scheduled to mature before 2015 valued at 1.5 billion euros,
Bloomberg data show. The largest is the 693 million-euro
Fordgate loan, which was placed in special servicing -- or with
a firm that oversees troubled loans -- in December 2011 after
breaches of borrowing terms. The next largest is the 423
million-euro MPC loan, which is also in default.  Space Glut  The government and municipalities have started to tackle
the space glut. Amsterdam adopted a bylaw last year to force
owners to address empty offices, and the city’s aldermen are
considering a demolition fund partly paid for by new
development. By encouraging office conversions to hotels and
housing, the city has cut vacancies by 25,000 square meters a
year since 2007. The vacancy rate is still 16 percent, DTZ
Zadelhoff estimates.  Concerns about blight have triggered sales and deals
involving distressed assets are picking up. An unidentified
investor acquired the 23 properties backing the Orange loan in
the Fleet Street Finance 3 CMBS for 50 million euros in May,
leaving bondholders with a 28.5 million-euro loss.  Commercial real estate sales throughout the country rose 24
percent in the first nine months to 3.42 billion euros,
according to data compiled by Real Capital Analytics Inc.  “The negative sentiment is overdone,” said Johan Buijs,
chief executive officer of  NSI (NISTI)  NV, the country’s largest
publicly traded office landlord. “There are lots of
opportunities in the Dutch market; it’s just a matter of how to
take advantage of them.”  Poor Performer  NSI acquired VastNed Offices/Industrial NV a year ago,
increasing vacancies at its Dutch offices to 30 percent in the
third quarter. The company’s stock has fallen 35 percent this
year,  the worst performer  of the 83-member FTSE EPRA/NAREIT
Developed Europe Index. The  six analysts  who cover the stock
recommend buying it.  NSI accounted for 6 percent of all new Dutch office leases
in the first nine months. Buijs plans to convert 15 percent of
its properties into higher-yielding serviced offices and 5
percent may become hotels or housing, he said.  Next year “will be a turning point with vacancies lower,”
Buijs said. “We should get back to the national average, but it
will take time.”  Tenants still have the upper hand in rent negotiations with
the Dutch economy mired in a recession, unemployment at its
highest since at least 2000 and Dutch employers adopting
flexible-work policies.  Transport Hub  The Dutch unit of  Cap Gemini  SA plans to move into a new
21,000 square-meter (226,000 square-foot) building beside the
 Leidsche Rijn  railway station near Utrecht. Faced with employee
turnover caused by long commutes, the consulting firm gave its
5,000 workers more flexibility to work outside of the office and
it’s vacating 32,000 square meters in a nearby office park. The
new headquarters and a network of six Netherlands locations have
cut space needs by 30 percent.  Combined with a more than 25 percent reduction in rents,
the Paris-based company expects to save more than 5 million
euros a year as a result of the April 2013 move, according to
Hans Scholten, Cap Gemini’s real estate director for northwest
Europe.  “The new development is cheaper and better equipped for
our requirements,” Scholten said.  In central Utrecht, 2.7 million square feet of  office space 
is being added in the low-vacancy area around the train station
in the country’s  largest urban development project , in contrast
with the high vacancy rates on its periphery.  “Utrecht illustrates what’s going on across the
Netherlands,” said Frank van der Sluys, DTZ Zadelhoff’s head of
research. “Public transport is more important than ever.”  ‘Owners’ Problem’  Neighboring Nieuwegein had the Netherlands’ highest office
vacancy rate until last year. The municipality estimates that a
third of the 165,000 square meters of empty space may need to be
demolished. The town of 60,000 has sped up the planning process
for building conversions and it set a target of eliminating
20,000 square meters of vacant space this year that will
probably be met.  “Vacancy is the owners’ problem,” Wouter Kolff, the
alderman in charge of economic affairs, said in an interview
last month at Nieuwegein’s 50 million-euro civic center that
opened last year.  The new center increased the town’s office vacancies by
10,000 square meters, Kolff said. The building designed by
Danish architect Kim Nielsen was part of a plan dating from the
1990s to rejuvenate the town center and accommodate employees,
he said.  “We want to move beyond the image of Nieuwegein as a place
full of empty buildings,” Kolff said. “It’s a slow process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 