-- Philippine Bonds Gain Most in Two Months as Inflows Seen Rising
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-12-04T10:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/philippine-bonds-snap-four-day-advance-on-borrowing-cost-outlook.html
Philippine 19-year  government bonds 
climbed the most in almost two months on speculation overseas
investors increased holdings to benefit from the nation’s
improving economy. The peso was steady.  The bonds gained for a fifth day even after Bangko Sentral
ng Pilipinas Governor  Amando Tetangco  signaled the authority
will refrain from cutting  interest rates  this month after four
reductions this year. Gross domestic product rose 7.1 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier, the most in two years,
official data showed last week.  The yield on the 8 percent sovereign notes due July 2031
dropped eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 5.47
percent as of 4:13 p.m. in Manila, according to prices from
Tradition Financial Services. That was the lowest level since
February. Twenty-year bonds in  South Korea  pay 3.13 percent.  “If there’s no cut this month, it gives the market time to
buy bonds,” said Lito Mercado, head of trading at  Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp. (RCB)  in Manila. “Offshore players want
exposure to the Philippine economy. Our yields are higher than
those of our neighbors. Local banks are also awash with pesos.”  The central bank last reduced its overnight borrowing rate
on Oct. 25 to 3.5 percent to spur economic growth and damp gains
in the peso that has strengthened 7.2 percent against the dollar
this year. The next review is on Dec. 13. Central bank rates are
at 3 percent in  Malaysia  and 2.75 percent in  Thailand .  Inflation Outlook  Consumer prices increased 3 percent last month from a year
earlier, compared with 3.1 percent in October, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a
report due tomorrow. That would be the lowest level in five
months.  The peso closed at 40.875 per dollar, compared with 40.885
yesterday, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency reached
40.840 on Nov. 29, the strongest level since March 2008. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, was unchanged at 4.40
percent.  The monetary authority is mindful of the peso’s move
compared with regional currencies, Tetangco said in an e-mail
yesterday. The exchange rate remains market-determined “with
scope for official action in face of potential excessive
volatility,” he said.  The Philippine central bank ordered lenders to set aside
more cash to cover risks on currency forwards this year. In
July, it banned foreign funds from its special-deposit accounts
that pay more than government Treasury bills. It cut the
overnight borrowing rate to a record 3.5 percent in October to
help reduce the appeal of the nation’s higher-yielding assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  