-- Porsche Loses Bid to Appeal Piech Duty Ruling: Top Court
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-12-04T14:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/porsche-loses-bid-to-appeal-piech-duty-ruling-top-court.html
Porsche SE (PAH3)  can’t appeal a ruling
saying  Ferdinand Piech  violated his duties when commenting in
2009 about options transactions done as part of a takeover bid
for  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   The Federal Court of Justice,  Germany ’s highest civil
court, refused a full review of a February ruling that VW
Chairman Piech, who is also on Porsche’s supervisory board, was
wrong to tell reporters he didn’t know -- and hadn’t sought
clarity on -- the amount of risk Porsche faced on options it
held. The lower tribunal was right to call this a grave
violation, the judges said in their ruling.  “A supervisory board member acts against his duties, and
thus against the law, if he doesn’t fulfill his monitoring
tasks,” the top court said in the decision posted on its
website. “These duties require that he keeps himself informed
about grave risks of transactions the management is taking, and
that he is able to judge them independently.”  The lower court ruling voided votes by Porsche shareholders
that discharged Piech and the rest of the supervisory board from
responsibility for fiscal year 2008/2009. The decision doesn’t
mean Piech has to pay damages related to the comments, made at a
press event in Sardinia.  The case is one of several disputes stemming from the
failed Volkswagen takeover in 2009, which included Porsche’s use
of options to build its stake. Porsche racked up more than 10
billion euros ($13.1 billion) of debt in the process. Porsche,
which completed the sale of the unit that makes the 911 sports
car to VW this year, is now a holding company for 50.7 percent
of Volkswagen’s common shares.  Judging Risks  The judges also said the lower court was right to find
Piech violated his duties when he said that no one could
properly judge the risks of the option transactions.  Porsche will review the ruling and analyze which other
steps it can take to prevail with its assessment that the
supervisory board didn’t violate any of its duties, the company
said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is BGH, II ZR 111/12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  