-- PSG Wins Champions League Group; Manchester City Out of Europe
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-12-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/psg-wins-champions-league-group-manchester-city-out-of-europe.html
Paris Saint-Germain and Schalke won
their groups in soccer’s  Champions League , while Manchester City
finished last in its pool after a winless run.  PSG beat Porto 2-1 last night to claim the top place in
Group A, while Schalke won Group B with a 1-1 draw at
Montpellier.  The top two teams from each of the eight groups advance to
the round of 16 in Europe’s elite club competition, while the
third-place teams qualify for the second-tier Europa League.  Manchester City crashed out of European competition after a
1-0 loss to first-place Dortmund left it at the bottom of Group
D. The Premier League champion was also knocked out of the
Champions League in the group stage last season.  “We’ve let ourselves down,” City goalkeeper  Joe Hart  told
 Sky Sports . “We’ve only got ourselves to blame.”  The final three places in the knockout stage will be filled
tonight.  In Group E, Chelsea must win at home against Nordsjaelland
and have Juventus lose to already-qualified Shakhtar Donetsk to
avoid becoming the first defending champion to fail to advance
from the group stage.  PSG’s victory gave it 15 points, two more than Porto.
Dynamo Kiev finished third after drawing 1-1 at Dinamo Zagreb in
a game delayed about 20 minutes in the first half because of
snow.  Arsenal Second  Schalke’s draw with Montpellier in France was enough to win
Group B by two points over Arsenal, which lost 2-1 at Olympiacos
after resting regular players having already qualified.
Olympiacos, which finished third, scored twice in the second
half to cancel out Tomas Rosicky’s 38th-minute goal.  “It was not the result we wanted but overall it was a very
encouraging game,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  told ITV.
“Now we have to wait for the draw, but ideally you want to
finish first.”  Julian Schieber scored the only goal for two-time German
champion Dortmund, which had already won Group D. Record nine-
time European champion Real Madrid, which was runner-up, beat
Ajax 4-1.  Group C winner Malaga drew 2-2 with Anderlecht, while Zenit
St. Petersburg beat runner-up AC Milan to claim third place and
a spot in the Europa League.  The draw for the round of 16 will be held Dec. 20 in Nyon,
Switzerland.  TEAMS ALREADY QUALIFIED FOR THE CHAMPIONS LEAGUE KNOCKOUT STAGE:
AC Milan, Arsenal, Barcelona,  Bayern Munich ,  Borussia Dortmund ,
Malaga,  Manchester United , Paris Saint-Germain, Porto, Real
Madrid, Schalke,  Shakhtar Donetsk , Valencia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  