-- Putin Orders Officials to Declare Personal Spending
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-12-04T18:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/putin-orders-officials-to-declare-spending-amid-graft-fight-1-.html
(Corrects to remove the word “triple” from second
paragraph.)  President  Vladimir Putin  ordered
Cabinet members and their families to file personal-spending
declarations, stepping up the most far-reaching campaign against
corruption of the Russian leader’s 12-year rule.  The measure, which  amends  existing disclosure requirements,
will apply to purchases of real estate, securities and vehicles
when the amount spent is more than the family’s annual income
for the previous three years, according to a decree  published 
today. The changes, which go into effect on Jan. 1, will apply
to transactions by government officials, their spouses and
under-age children concluded since Jan. 1, 2012.  The changes, first proposed by then-President Dmitry Medvedev in March, highlight steps to tighten oversight of
earnings and spending by officials in  Russia , the most corrupt
member of the Group of 20 group of advanced economies in Berlin-
based  Transparency International ’s ranking. The move follows
Putin’s ouster last month of Anatoly Serdyukov as defense
minister, the most senior official felled over graft
allegations.  Putin has backed Medvedev’s initiative to monitor personal
spending by state officials, saying in April that Russia may
require senior officials in state-run companies, university
rectors and heads of large state medical facilities to make
annual declarations of their income and property to reduce
corruption.  Medvedev, who four years ago signed a law requiring
officials to file income declarations for themselves and family
members, has also promised that the government will seize the
assets acquired “through dubious means,” which may also be
grounds for firing officials.  The legislative amendments unveiled today don’t yet allow
for criminal prosecution of violators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  