-- Qualcomm Said to Agree to 5 Billion Yen Investment in Sharp
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-12-04T02:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/qualcomm-said-to-plan-5-billion-yen-investment-in-japan-s-sharp.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the Japanese TV maker
that warned last month about its ability to survive, agreed to
sell a stake in itself to  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and team up with the U.S.
company to make displays, two people familiar with the plan said.  Sharp plans to make an announcement today on the agreement,
which includes selling 5 billion yen ($61 million) of  new shares 
to the San Diego-based chipmaker this year, one of the people
said, asking not to be named because the plan hasn’t been made
public. That would give Qualcomm a  2.6 percent stake  in Sharp,
based on its 191 billion yen  market value  yesterday.  Japan’s  largest liquid-crystal displays maker hemorrhaged 
103 billion yen in  cash  from operations in the first half of its
fiscal year amid dwindling demand and competition from  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  Sharp has failed to win a planned investment
from Taiwan’s Foxconn Technology Group after the Osaka-based
company widened its full-year loss  forecast .  “This investment is good news for Sharp,” said Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “However, it
won’t have sufficient impact to improve the company’s situation
dramatically. It’s only symbolic.”  Miyuki Nakayama, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Sharp, and
Clare Conley, a San Diego-based spokeswoman for Qualcomm,
declined to comment.  Energy-Efficient Displays  Sharp rose 1.7 percent to 175 yen as of the midday break in
Tokyo trading, compared with a 0.4 percent drop in Japan’s
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average. Sharp has declined 74
percent this year, making it the world’s second-worst performing
major stock.  The planned tie-up was reported earlier today by the Nikkei
newspaper. The two companies will jointly promote development of
energy-efficient displays for smartphones, the report said,
without saying where it got the information.  Qualcomm may invest an additional 5 billion yen in Sharp if
the partnership turns out to be successful, the report said.  Even an investment of 10 billion yen “is too small,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , Tokyo-based chief fund officer at Ichiyoshi
Asset Management Co., which oversees about 30 billion yen.
“Even if 10 companies invested 10 billion yen each in Sharp, it
would still only be 100 billion yen. It’s meaningless.”  ‘Material Doubt’  Sharp said last month there was “material doubt” about
its ability to survive after forecasting a record 450 billion-
yen full-year loss on falling demand for its display panels.  The maker of Aquos TVs reached a preliminary agreement in
March to sell a 67 billion-yen stake in itself to Taipei-based
Foxconn. A decline in Sharp’s share price prompted
renegotiations of the terms, and the Japanese company has said
the talks may continue at least through March.  Sharp was in talks with  Round Rock , Texas-based  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
for an investment of as much as $240 million, the Wall Street
Journal reported last week, without saying where it got the
information. Sharp wasn’t the source of the report and nothing
has been decided, Atsushi Yoshida, a spokesman for the Japanese
company, said at the time. Dell declined to comment, Kim Otzman,
a spokeswoman for the maker of Latitude computers, said.  Sharp President Takashi Okuda said Nov. 1 the company is
considering various partnership options.  Kyodo News  said Nov. 13 Sharp was in final talks with  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  to get an investment of as much as 40 billion yen. Sharp
wasn’t the source of information for that report and nothing has
been decided, the Japanese company said in a statement Nov. 14.
Chuck Malloy, a spokesman for  Santa Clara , California-based
Intel, declined to comment at the time.  The Asahi newspaper said Oct. 26 Sharp was seeking capital
alliances with  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , Intel,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Apple Inc., without saying where it got the
information. Sharp denied the report at the time.  The 100-year-old inventor of mechanical pencils put up its
Osaka headquarters and some plants as collateral in September to
win bank loans after its credit ratings were cut to junk.  Within six months of assuming office, Okuda, 59, announced
eliminating jobs for the first time in six decades after
widening the company’s loss forecast on plunging demand for TVs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  