-- Trafigura Predicts China Rebound on Emerging Markets
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-12-04T08:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/trafigura-forecasts-china-rebound-as-sales-profit-drop-in-2012.html
The economy in  China , the world’s
biggest user of energy and copper, is expected to improve in the
first half of next year, according to Trafigura Group, the
third-largest independent oil trader.  “The news flows about China are starting to look more
positive and we are looking for that to translate into the real
economy,” Chief Financial Officer Pierre Lorinet said in an
interview in Singapore yesterday. “Especially in the emerging
world, we have come out of the cyclical downturn and will be
back on the upswing.”  A recovery in the second-largest economy may lift commodity
prices and trading, aiding companies such as Amsterdam-based
Trafigura, which Lorinet said posted a drop in sales and
“slightly” lower net income last financial year, and rival
 Glencore (GLEN)  International Plc. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has
forecast a 7 percent return from commodities over the next 12
months, with energy leading the way.  “We have seen some volumes down in some of our
activities,” said Lorinet, describing 2012 as a challenging and
complicated year with uncertainties generated by  Europe ’s debt
crisis, unrest in the Middle East, the U.S. presidential
election and the shift to new leadership in China.  Sales at the privately held company, which doesn’t publicly
disclose financial data, dropped 1.6 percent to $120 billion in
the 12 months to September, after gaining 53 percent the year
before, he said. Crude trading declined, while base metals and
iron ore increased, he said.  Singapore Move  Net income also fell in the last financial year because of
a number of acquisitions and higher staff costs, said Lorinet,
who relocated to  Singapore  from Geneva in September as the
company expands in Asia. Trafigura, which made the city-state
its main trading hub this year to capitalize on regional growth,
added more than 3,000 people this year across its five units and
continues to hire across the board, not only in Asia, he said.  Crude oil in New York has declined 10 percent this year to
$88.77 a barrel today. The loss has helped to trim gains since
Jan. 1 on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw
materials to 0.6 percent.  A manufacturing gauge in China rose to a seven-month high
of 50.6 in November, data released on Dec. 1 showed, adding to
evidence that growth is rebounding from a three-year low. The
economy may quicken to 8.1 percent in 2013, according to the
median of analysts’ forecasts tracked by Bloomberg. Top economic
officials meet this month to map out policies for 2013.  ‘Come Back’  “We had anticipated China to come back from the cyclical
downturn toward the end of this year,” said Lorinet, who joined
Trafigura in 2002 after five years at Merrill Lynch & Co. “We
underestimated the impact of the transition,” he said,
referring to the handover to the country’s new leadership.  Xi Jinping succeeded Hu Jintao as president and head of the
Communist Party last month in a once-a-decade change. The
congress that anointed the new leaders set an objective of
doubling 2010 gross domestic product and per capita income by
2020, implying annual average growth of 7 percent, Citigroup Inc.
economists led by Ding Shuang wrote in a Nov. 27 report.  Goldman Sachs’ outlook for commodities forecasts a 10
percent gain for energy, 7.5 percent for industrial metals and 8
percent for precious metals, according to a Nov. 30 report. The
bank said it remained overweight on commodities.  Puma Energy, Trafigura’s downstream energy unit, purchased
about 290 fuel stations and seven storage terminals in Central
America this year and acquired Chevron Corp.’s marketing assets
in the Caribbean. It also bought assets in Vietnam and  Indonesia .  Glencore, the world’s largest commodities trader, said in
August first-half profit dropped 26 percent after commodity
prices fell. The Baar, Switzerland-based company, which is
taking over miner Xstrata Plc, said on Nov. 1 that it saw no
signs of an imminent recovery in global economic conditions.  “We are not that gloomy about the world,” Lorinet said.
“There may be some big events we don’t know about, which if
materialize could have significant repercussions. But, on
balance, otherwise the world seems to be OK.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  