-- Interest-Rate Swap Futures Surpass $130 Million at CME Group
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-12-04T20:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/rate-swap-futures-surpass-13-million-on-second-day-at-cme-group.html
CME Group Inc. (CME)  has recorded trades of
more than $130 million in notional value on interest-rate swap
futures it started offering yesterday.  With contracts trading in increments of $100,000, the
notional amount equates to 1,362 transactions as of about 12:30
p.m. in  Chicago , said  Michael Shore , a spokesman for CME Group,
the world’s largest futures exchange. Of those, 782 were
recorded yesterday and 580 today on the exchange.  The contracts are based on 2-, 5-, 10- and 30-year rate
swaps that change from a future to a swap if an investor takes
delivery of the contract.  The difference to buy and sell the 10-year contract is
about half a basis point, a sign of good demand, said Rocco Chierici, vice president of the fixed-income group at R.J.
O’Brien & Associates who works on the floor of the Chicago
exchange.  “It shows the buyers and sellers are coming together,” he
said in a telephone interview.  The rate-swap futures trading compares with much larger
transactions in the privately negotiated  interest-rate swaps 
market, where average trade size was $270 million, according to
a March study by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  Infrequent Swaps  The district bank analyzed three months of market
information from June to August 2010. It found about 300 users
of the instruments, which is dominated by the world’s 14 largest
banks. Transactions in interest-rate swaps were infrequent, with
no contract trading more than 150 times a day on average, the
Fed said.  The margin CME Group requires to buy or sell the rate-swap
future is lower than to enter into an equivalent swap because
the time to unwind a defaulted position is shorter with the
future than the swap, Sean Tully, managing director of interest-
rate products at CME Group, said in an e-mail. That leads to the
futures margin being about half as much as a cleared rate-swap
margin, he said.  If customers take delivery of the rate swap future and it
converts to an interest-rate swap, the margin coverage increases
to five days from two days.  “We’re very pleased with the customer feedback and volumes
we’ve seen so far,” Tully said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 