-- RBA Cuts Key Rate to Match Half-Century Low as Currency Holds Up
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-12-04T06:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/rba-cuts-key-rate-to-half-century-low-of-3-as-hiring-weakens.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut its
benchmark  interest rate  to the half-century low set during the
2009 global recession as hiring falters and an elevated currency
hurts industries such as manufacturing and tourism.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board reduced the overnight
cash-rate target by a quarter percentage point to 3 percent, the
central bank said in a statement in Sydney today. The sixth cut
in the past 14 months was predicted by 20 of 28 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The rate matches the level reached from
April-October 2009 that was the lowest since 1960.  In his statement, Stevens said the local dollar remains
“higher than might have been expected” given lower export
prices and a weaker global outlook. His decision to ease the
highest policy rate among major developed economies reflects
Australia’s contained wage pressure, lower projected mining
spending and an unemployment rate at a 2 1/2-year high.  “The cut is an attempt to smooth the transition from
resources to the broader sectors of the economy that are
currency and interest-rate sensitive,” said Martin Whetton,
interest-rate strategist for  Australia  at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in Sydney. “There feels like there’s a level of frustration in
the statement about the currency.”  The so-called Aussie advanced after the decision, buying
$1.0437 at 4:56 p.m. in Sydney compared with $1.0426 before the
decision. The yield on three-year government debt advanced to
2.62 percent, up four basis points from yesterday. Australian
financial stocks declined, with the S&P/ASX 200 Finance Index
falling 0.5 percent.  ‘Relatively Subdued’  “The near-term outlook for non-residential building
investment, and investment generally outside the resources
sector, remains relatively subdued,” Stevens said.  The local dollar’s 62 percent climb in the past four years
has hurt exporters, forcing them and other companies to adapt.
The number of Australian construction jobs fell by 70,200 to
978,000 in the 12 months through August, helping lift the
unemployment rate to 5.4 percent. Mining employment gained by
44,600 over the same period to 271,000, according to government
figures.  “Looking further ahead, with the labor market softening
somewhat and unemployment edging higher, conditions are working
to contain pressure on labor costs,” Stevens said. “Public
spending is forecast to be constrained.”  Political Dividend  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and Treasurer  Wayne Swan  have
pressed the central bank to loosen monetary policy as the Labor
government bids for a A$44 billion ($46 billion) swing in the
budget back to surplus before an election due later next year.
The government is seeking to benefit from lower borrowing costs
in an economy where about 90 percent of mortgages have floating
rates.  “This rate cut is a consequence of prudent budget
management and contained inflation,” Swan told reporters in
Canberra after the RBA announcement. “We understand that not
everybody in business or out there at work is on easy street but
having much lower  interest rates  than we’ve had, particularly
under the  Liberal Party , is a big win for Aussie families.”  While the benchmark rate has returned to what Stevens in
2009 called an “emergency” setting, financial conditions are
tighter than during the 2009 global recession. The nation’s four
biggest  lenders , accounting for 85 percent of the bank mortgage
market, have withheld about a quarter of the RBA’s 1.5
percentage points of cuts since November 2011, excluding today’s
move.  Stronger Currency  The currency averaged about 80 cents during the April-to-
October period in 2009, when the benchmark was last at 3
percent, compared with an average of $1.035 this year.  The currency rose after the decision because Stevens’s
statement was “hawkish,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong . She noted that
today’s statement said monetary policy “was appropriate now,”
a change from last month’s description that it was “appropriate
for the time being.”  Prices of  iron ore , the nation’s most valuable commodity
export, have rebounded since reaching a three-year low on Sept.
5 after  China  announced spending on new subways and roads.  Weaker prices for raw materials last quarter and the
elevated currency prompted mining companies including  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  to put off
projects and cut jobs.  Mining Boom  “Looking ahead, recent data confirm that the peak in
resource investment is approaching. As it does, there will be
more scope for some other areas of demand to strengthen,”
Stevens said. “Private consumption spending is expected to
grow, but a return to the very strong growth of some years ago
is unlikely.”  Stevens is aiming to rebalance the two-speed economy, where
mining regions in the north and west thrive and manufacturers,
builders and retailers in the south and east struggle.  “There are indications of a prospective improvement in
dwelling investment, with dwelling prices moving a little
higher, rental yields increasing and building approvals having
turned up,” Stevens said today.  With their benchmark rates near record lows, the U.S.
Federal Reserve,  European Central Bank  and  Bank of Japan (8301)  have
expanded their balance sheets since 2008 to try to resuscitate
growth.  The fallout from the measures has included surging
currencies in export-driven economies from  Scandinavia  to South
Korea to Australia.  Labor Market  Australian help-wanted notices dropped for an eighth
straight month in November, sliding 2.9 percent, an  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  report showed this week.
Economists predicted the  unemployment rate  rose to 5.5 percent
last month ahead of a Dec. 6 government report.  “There are signs of easier conditions starting to have
some of the expected effects, though the  exchange rate  remains
higher than might have been expected, given the observed decline
in export prices and the weaker global outlook,” Stevens said.
“While the full effects of earlier measures are yet to be
observed, the board judged at today’s meeting that a further
easing in the stance of monetary policy was appropriate now.”  The RBA’s next scheduled meeting is on Feb. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  