-- RBA’s Stevens Cuts Benchmark Rate to 3% (Full Text)
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2012-12-04T03:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/rba-s-stevens-cuts-benchmark-rate-to-3-full-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a statement published today on the  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia ’s website, after Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board
lowered the overnight cash-rate target by a quarter percentage
point to 3 percent.  “At its meeting today, the Board decided to reduce the
cash rate by 25 basis points to 3.0 per cent, effective 5
December 2012.  ‘‘Global growth is forecast to be a little below average
for a time. Risks to the outlook are still seen to be on the
downside, largely as a result of the situation in  Europe , though
the uncertainty over the course of US fiscal policy is also
weighing on sentiment at present. Recent data suggest that the
US economy is recording moderate growth and that growth in  China 
has stabilised. Around  Asia  generally, growth has been dampened
by the more moderate Chinese expansion and the weakness in
Europe.  ‘‘Key commodity prices for Australia remain significantly
lower than earlier in the year, though trends have been more
mixed over the past few months. The terms of trade have declined
by about 15 per cent since the peak, to a level that is still
historically high.  ‘‘Sentiment in financial markets remains better than it was
in mid year, in response to signs of progress in addressing
Europe’s financial problems, though Europe is likely to remain a
source of instability for some time. Long-term  interest rates 
faced by highly rated sovereigns, including Australia, remain at
exceptionally low levels.  Capital markets  remain open to
corporations and well-rated banks, and Australian banks have had
no difficulty accessing funding, including on an unsecured
basis. Borrowing conditions for large corporations are similarly
attractive and share prices have risen since mid year.  ‘‘In Australia, most indicators available for this meeting
suggest that growth has been running close to trend over the
past year, led by very large increases in  capital spending  in
the resources sector, while some other sectors have experienced
weaker conditions. Looking ahead, recent data confirm that the
peak in resource investment is approaching. As it does, there
will be more scope for some other areas of demand to strengthen.  ‘‘Private consumption spending is expected to grow, but a
return to the very strong growth of some years ago is unlikely.
Available information suggests that the near-term outlook for
non-residential building investment, and investment generally
outside the resources sector, remains relatively subdued. Public
spending is forecast to be constrained. On the other hand, there
are indications of a prospective improvement in dwelling
investment, with dwelling prices moving a little higher, rental
yields increasing and building approvals having turned up.  ‘‘Inflation is consistent with the medium-term target, with
underlying measures at around 2½ per cent. The introduction of
the carbon price affected consumer prices in the September
quarter, and there could be some further small effects over the
next couple of quarters. Partly as a result of that, headline
CPI inflation will rise above 3 per cent briefly. Looking
further ahead, with the labour market softening somewhat and
unemployment edging higher, conditions are working to contain
pressure on labour costs. A continuation of moderate wage
outcomes and improved productivity performance will be needed to
keep inflation low, since the effects on prices of the earlier
 exchange rate  appreciation are now waning. The Bank’s assessment
remains that inflation will be consistent with the target over
the next one to two years.  ‘‘Over the past year, monetary policy has become more
accommodative. There are signs of easier conditions starting to
have some of the expected effects, though the exchange rate
remains higher than might have been expected, given the observed
decline in export prices and the weaker global outlook. While
the full effects of earlier measures are yet to be observed, the
Board judged at today’s meeting that a further easing in the
stance of monetary policy was appropriate now. This will help to
foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation outcomes
consistent with the target over time.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  