-- Treasuries Erase Losses as U.S. Fiscal Cliff Concern Lingers
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-12-04T13:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/treasuries-erase-losses-as-u-s-fiscal-cliff-concern-lingers.html
Treasury 10-year notes erased losses
on concern negotiations over the so-called fiscal cliff between
President  Barack Obama  and Republican lawmakers are stalled,
spurring demand for refuge.  The benchmark note yields rose earlier after the approval
of an aid payment for Spain’s banks spurred optimism that  Europe 
is containing its debt crisis and undermined demand for the
safest assets. Obama and the Republicans are trading offers on
ways to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of more than $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases for 2013.  “We are going to be focused on any comments on the fiscal
cliff or Europe,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government
trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC a New York-based brokerage.
“People are looking to see if a much bigger bailout ends up
being asked for. Washington will make the markets nervous for
the foreseeable future.”  Ten-year note yields were little changed at 1.62 percent at
8:55 a.m.  New York  time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
data. The rate dropped to 1.59 percent on Nov. 30, the lowest
since Nov. 19. The price of the 1.625 percent security due in
November 2022 rose 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to
100 2/32.  Investors in Treasuries cut bullish bets this week,
resulting in the fewest net longs since June, according to a
survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Short Bets  The proportion of net shorts was at four percentage points
in the week ending yesterday, according to JPMorgan, compared
with four percentage net longs in the week ending Nov. 26.
Neutral bets remained steady at 70 percent, equaling the highest
level since August.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said structural headlines may
reduce real economic growth below 2 percent in the U.S. and
other developed nations. He reiterated that U.S. inflation-
protected securities remain attractive and advised avoiding
longer-maturity Treasuries because central bank policies to
revive growth will lead to inflation.  “The biblical metaphor of seven years of fat leading to
seven years of lean may be quite apropos in the current case
with the observation that the developed world’s growth binge has
been decades in the making,” Gross wrote in his monthly
investment outlook posted on the Newport Beach, California-based
company’s  website  today. “We may need at least a decade for the
healing.”  Trading Slows  Treasuries have returned 2.6 percent this year, while bonds
in an index of U.S. investment-grade and high-yield debt rallied
11 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Treasury trading volume dropped yesterday to $173 billion,
lower than the 2012 daily average of $240 billion, according to
ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government
debt. It touched $281.5 billion on Nov. 28 that was the most in
three weeks.  The European Stability Mechanism’s board approved a first
tranche of aid for Spanish banks, Luxembourg Prime Minister
Jean-Claude Juncker said yesterday in Brussels. The disbursement
will be made next week, he said.  Finance ministers also set a Dec. 13 meeting to release the
next 34.4 billion euros ($45 billion) of aid for  Greece  and
possibly wrap up bailout talks with Cyprus, which would become
the fifth euro-area country to tap international aid since the
crisis erupted in late 2009.  Economists cut their forecasts for Treasury 10-year yields
this year to the lowest since Bloomberg began surveying for the
projection on concern U.S. politicians are struggling to avert
the fiscal cliff. Forecasters also reduced their predictions for
the rate through 2013.  Yield Forecasts  The 10-year yield will be 1.64 percent by Dec. 31, less
than the 1.75 percent rate that economists saw at the start of
November, according to Bloomberg surveys of the predictions. The
rate will climb to 2.27 percent by the end of 2013, a separate
survey shows, down from a forecast of 2.35 percent on Nov. 1.  The average forecast for the 10-year Treasury yield fell as
low as 1.59 percent at the end of last week.  “It’s a fiscal-cliff forecast,” said  Rob Carnell , chief
international economist at ING Groep NV in  London , who predicts
the 10-year note yield will decline to 1.50 percent by the end
of the year and 1.40 percent in the first quarter of 2013. “We
expect that there isn’t going to be a deal by December 31st and
that will benefit Treasuries. Once we’ve got a resolution,
yields will rise.”  House Republicans rejected Obama’s demand for tax-rate
increases, heightening the confrontational tone of budget
negotiations. They proposed $1.4 trillion in spending cuts and
$800 billion in new revenue by limiting tax breaks and capping
deductions for top earners. The proposal did not include higher
tax rates for top-earning Americans, something Obama has called
essential.  Narrow Range  Ten-year yields were confined to the tightest range since
2007 last month as volatility dropped to a five-year low, data
compiled by Bloomberg shows. Treasury 10-year rates were in a
 range  of 22 basis points last month, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, the narrowest since April 2007.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which measures
price swings of U.S. government securities based on options,
fell to 51.7 basis points on Nov. 27 and Nov. 29, the lowest
level since May 2007. It hit a 2012 high of 95 basis points on
June 15. Volatility climbed to 265 basis points in October 2008
as the financial crisis intensified.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  