-- Rebel Assault Shows Assad’s Infrastructure as New Target
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-12-05T11:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/rebel-assault-shows-assad-s-infrastructure-as-new-target.html
The grainy footage showed gunmen
crouched amid the sparse vegetation of a Syrian hillside
overlooking a key hydroelectric dam on the Euphrates River.  “Get down, get down, your position is not good,” a rebel
commander can be heard saying on an unverified  YouTube  video
posted by fighters of the Tawheed Brigade opposing President
Bashar al-Assad. “Spread out in twos and threes,” the voice
says. The sound of gunfire is heard. The next film purports to
show the control room of the 630-megawatt Tishrin Dam following
the assault, while a third displays captured military hardware
including assault rifles and rocket-propelled grenades.  The rebel Free Syrian Army says it’s changing tactics in
the 21-month insurgency, moving from intensive combat in major
cities to target infrastructure giving Assad’s forces an edge,
like airfields. That’s driving the cost of a civil conflict
estimated by the government to have caused almost $30 billion of
damage. It’s also forced at least 1.2 million Syrians from their
homes, according to the  United Nations .  The new approach was agreed at a series of meetings between
the FSA leadership and rebel units some weeks ago, according to
Bassam al-Dada, the group’s political adviser, who spoke by
phone from close to the Turkish border on Dec. 3. Insurgents
made a mistake by occupying civilian neighborhoods like
Salahuddin in Aleppo, which brought punishing retaliatory
strikes resulting in large civilian casualties, he said.  ‘Wrong Strategy’  “That was the wrong strategy,” he said. Rebel military
leaders were now guiding their fighters “toward key targets,
such as military bases, airports and highways to cut means of
transport for the army.”  While insurgent Internet footage can’t be independently
verified, the government has acknowledged that major sites like
Tishrin, as well as civil and military airfields including
Damascus International Airport, have been the scene of heavy
fighting this month and last. Rebels say they overran the Marj
al-Sultan helicopter base on the outskirts of Damascus on Nov.
24, a day before the dam assault, and seized  oil fields  in
eastern  Syria  in the same month.  The rebels clashed with Syrian troops today in the vicinity
of Aqraba military air base, close to Damascus International
Airport, Rami  Abdel Rahman , head of the Syrian Observatory for
 Human Rights , an opposition group, said by phone from Coventry,
 England . The rebels have not taken the civil airport yet, he
said.  Volunteer Guards  Syria’s government recognizes it has a problem -- Prime
Minister Wael al-Halaqi told ministers in a Nov. 27 Cabinet
session that citizens should help authorities to guard “vital
facilities,” the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency reported.
His list of infrastructure at risk of attack may also signal how
far the rebel campaign has reached -- the premier mentioned dams
and highways along with oil and electricity facilities and even
cereal silos.  Repeated rebel assaults on gas pipelines in Deir Ezzor,
which feed treatment and power plants, forced a halt in
operations at a number of generators with a total capacity of
1,500 megawatts, Minister of Electricity Imad Khamis said in a
statement carried by Sana on Nov. 26. That meant that power
rationing would continue as before, he said, without giving
additional details.  Control ‘Faltering’  “As Assad’s forces lose more and more territory, their
control over state infrastructure is also faltering,” the
Austin, Texas-based geopolitical consulting firm Stratfor said
in a Nov. 30 report after the airport attacks and a nationwide
disruption of  Internet service . “The Syrian rebels don’t
necessarily need to take over control of the infrastructure in
order to prove that Assad is weak. Putting the infrastructure in
jeopardy is enough to do that.”  The war is “evolving from one in which most operations
focus on attacks aimed at wearing down the Syrian army and
capturing weapons, to one where there is a stronger emphasis on
seizing key military and infrastructural targets,” said
Torbjorn Soltvedt, senior analyst at  Maplecroft , a U.K.-based
risk consultant. “The capture of the Tishrin Dam in northern
Syria is a clear example of this.”  The capabilities of Syria’s disparate rebel groups have
been boosted by defections from Assad’s forces and foreign
fighters who “are playing an important role in improving
strategy and tactics,” Ozgur Unluhisarcikli, director of the
 German Marshall Fund  of the  United States  in Ankara, said in e-
mailed comments.  Attack Helicopters  In recent weeks, rebels claim to have captured air force
bases, including the al-Mintar base outside Aleppo, closed major
highways, shot down fighter jets and helicopter gunships and
attacked government buildings, such as the agricultural research
center in Aleppo.  The Syrian army too has evolved, using firepower from its
arsenal of advanced weaponry, including artillery pieces, tanks,
combat aircraft and attack helicopters. And it has held onto the
capital Damascus even as the fighters say they’ve taken control
of some pockets around it. Opposition groups like the Local
Coordination Committees daily report government bombardment of
rebel-held areas in and around Damascus. An average of 150
deaths a day are reported by opposition groups like the Syrian
Observatory.  “We can’t say that the Syrian military is finished,” said
Oytun Orhan, an analyst at the Center for Middle Eastern
Strategic Studies in Ankara. “The rebels might have learned
guerrilla war in cities, but the Syrian regime still has a
strong army with tanks and fighter jets and as long as the
regime can defend Damascus, it will survive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  