-- Record Asia Oil Takeovers Match U.S. Pace for First Time: Energy
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-12-04T07:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/record-asia-oil-takeovers-match-u-s-pace-for-first-time-energy.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ’s purchase of
a stake in  Israel ’s largest natural gas deposit takes Asia-
Pacific oil and gas acquisitions to a record $99 billion this
year, tying the U.S. for the first time.  Australia’s second-largest petroleum producer yesterday
said it will pay partners including  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  an initial
$696 million and as much as $2.3 billion for part of the
Leviathan field. Deals by U.S. energy companies have fallen 35
percent to $98.7 billion in 2012, while Asia-Pacific purchases
increased 3.8 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Leviathan deal underlines the growing appetite for oil
and gas assets among Asia-Pacific companies after energy demand
in the region grew at more than double the world average of 2.5
percent in 2011.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,  Cnooc Ltd. (883) 
and India’s  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  have secured supplies abroad
as new fields are found from North America to Africa.  “There are so many more options for Asian companies now
with new discoveries around the world,” said Laban Yu, head of
Asian oil and gas equity research at Jefferies Hong Kong Ltd.
“The trend will be led by China, which has a large foreign-
exchange reserve and is seeking hard assets.”  China’s energy use is projected to rise 16 percent to 124.2
quadrillion British thermal units by 2015 from 2011 levels,
according to U.S. Energy Information Administration  data .
Consumption in India will gain 14 percent to  27.8 quadrillion 
Btu, while South Korea will increase 6.7 percent and  Japan  4.7
percent, according to the data.  China’s foreign-exchange reserves were $3.29 trillion, the
world’s biggest, as of September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Japan, with $1.2 trillion as of October, had the
second-biggest holding.  Leviathan Stake  Woodside, operator of the Pluto liquefied natural gas
project, will buy a 30 percent share in Leviathan, Israel’s
largest natural gas field.  Noble Energy ,  Delek Drilling LP (DEDRL) ,
Avner Oil Exploration LLP and Ratio Oil Exploration (1992) LP
are partners in the project, according to the statement
yesterday.  A surge in oil and gas production from shale rocks in the
U.S. and  Canada  is prompting operators to rope in partners to
meet capital expenditure. Canada, home to the world’s third-
biggest oil reserves, will require almost C$650 billion ($655
billion) of investments to develop the nation’s biggest resource
projects over the next decade, according to Natural Resources
Minister Joe Oliver.  “Higher production in North America means large amounts of
capital and operators have no option but to sell some of their
assets,” said Sonia Song, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc. “Buyers from Asia are stepping in.”  Nexen, Progress  Beijing-based Cnooc offered about  $15.1 billion  in July for
Canada’s Nexen Inc. in the biggest acquisition bid by a Chinese
company. Petroliam Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s state-run company,
has offered $5.2 billion to take over Progress Energy Resources
Corp., in a deal that Chief Executive Officer Shamsul Azhar Abbas said will help Canada find an alternative market for its
oil and gas. Both proposals are awaiting approvals from Canada’s
government.  Woodlands, Texas-based  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  led a group
that has made the biggest gas discovery in a decade in an area
off the coast of Mozambique. The fields, estimated to hold as
much as 60 trillion cubic feet of gas that can meet Asia’s needs
for at least five years, sparked a bidding war this year between
Shell and Thailand’s  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  for
Anadarko’s partner Cove Energy Plc.  World-Class Field  Leviathan is estimated to contain 17 trillion cubic feet of
gas, Woodside said yesterday. The first gas output for the local
Israel market is expected in 2016, it said.  “Leviathan is truly a world-class field that offers
significant development opportunities in the Israeli domestic
market and the Asian and European export markets,” Woodside
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Coleman  said yesterday.  Woodside will pay the partners an additional $200 million
once laws permitting LNG exports from Israel come into force and
$350 million when a final  investment decision  on an LNG project
is made. The accord also provides for potential annual LNG
revenue sharing payments capped at $1 billion and a payment of
as much as $50 million toward drilling a deep water exploration
well, Woodside said.  Woodside  declined  0.1 percent to A$34.08 in Sydney trading,
falling for the first time in four days. The shares have gained
11 percent this year.  Still, Woodside’s challenge would be to run the project
amid the region’s political instability, said  David Lennox , an
analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney.  ‘Better Opportunities’  “There may have been better opportunities elsewhere,
albeit at higher prices,” Lennox said. “The rewards really
come with oil and this is not really a proven oil zone. There’s
also a potential security risk. That region isn’t going to have
absolute peace.”  U.S. drillers including  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  are selling assets as they seek to cut debt taken
for exploration in the U.S. ConocoPhillips last month agreed to
sell its 8.4 percent stake in Kazakhstan’s Kashagan oil field to
India’s ONGC for $5 billion, taking the proceeds raised from
assets sales to about $7 billion. ConocoPhillips targets $8
billion to $10 billion of sales from 2012 to 2013.  Chesapeake, based in Oklahoma City, is seeking to sell as
much as $19 billion in assets by the end of 2013 to plug a
funding shortfall aggravated by the plunge in U.S. gas prices.
Prices in  New York  trading have averaged $2.78 per million
British thermal units this year, 31 percent lower than last year
and the declined to a decade low of $1.9 percent and more than a
third of 2005 rates.  Energy use in Asia-Pacific increased 5.4 percent in 2011
from a year earlier, the most in six regions, according to BP
Plc data. Demand in  North America  rose 0.3 percent, while
consumption in Europe and Eurasia fell 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  