-- Red Sox Land Mike Napoli With $39 Million Contract, MLB.com Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/red-sox-land-mike-napoli-with-39-million-contract-mlb-com-says.html
The Boston  Red Sox  signed former
Texas Rangers catcher and first baseman  Mike Napoli  to a three-
year, $39 million contract,  MLB.com said , adding a slugger who’s
hit a combined 54 home runs over the past two Major League
Baseball seasons.  The deal won’t be officially announced until Napoli passes
a physical, MLB.com said, though Red Sox General Manager  Ben Cherington  acknowledged that Napoli could be coming to Boston.  “We’ve made some progress and he’s a guy who gets on base,
has power and could be a good fit for our ballpark,” Cherington
was quoted by MLB.com as saying yesterday at baseball’s winter
meetings in Nashville, Tennessee.  In 75 career at-bats at Boston’s Fenway Park, Napoli has
hit .307 with nine home runs and 20 runs batted in.  Napoli, 31, made his first All-Star team last season, when
he batted .227 with 24 homers and 56 RBI for the Rangers. The
previous season -- his first in Texas after five years with the
 Los Angeles Angels  -- Napoli hit .320 with 30 homers and 75 RBI.  Napoli last season started 72 games at catcher, 28 at first
base and appeared in nine games as the Rangers’ designated
hitter. He could see more time at first base in Boston, as the
Red Sox also signed  David Ross  this offseason to join Jarrod Saltalamacchia and Ryan Lavarnway at catcher.  The Red Sox in August sent first baseman  Adrian Gonzalez  to
the Los Angeles Dodgers as part of a nine-player trade that
brought first baseman James Loney to Boston. Loney yesterday
signed a one-year contract with the Tampa Bay Rays that’s worth
$2 million,  MLB.com said .  “He could catch, he can play first,” Cherington said of
Napoli. “If he’s here, we imagine he’d do some of both but that
would be up to our manager to figure out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  