-- Related Nears Tenant Deals as Hudson Yards Breaks Ground
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-12-04T20:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/related-nears-tenant-deals-as-hudson-yards-breaks-ground.html
Related Cos. has tentative deals in
place for two more tenants to occupy the first tower of its
Hudson Yards development, Chairman Stephen Ross said today as
construction began at the 26-acre site on  Manhattan ’s west side.  The company has signed term sheets with two companies,
making the first building more than 80 percent committed to
occupants, said Ross, who didn’t name the potential  tenants .
 Coach Inc. (COH) , the largest U.S. luxury handbag maker, has already
agreed to move its headquarters to the Kohn Pedersen Fox-
designed skyscraper, which will reach 47 stories and include 1.7
million square feet (158,000 square meters) of space.  Related, the developer of Manhattan’s Time Warner Center,
is planning to build a  13.3 million-square-foot complex 
including offices, retail space and residences in what Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  called one of the largest private developments
ever undertaken in the country. The project would create almost
23,000 construction jobs and space for more than 40,000 people
to live or work, the mayor said.  The first tower’s construction “is an important first step
in fulfilling our vision for the new Hudson Yards community,”
Bloomberg said at the groundbreaking. “We began with two basic
principles: first we determined that the Hudson Yards area
should be a mixed-use community and an extension of the Midtown
central business district, and in addition to create affordable
housing and schools, and insuring that businesses and their
customers have world-class commercial spaces.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  New Leases  The first tower, located at the corner of 10th Avenue and
30th Street, is scheduled to be completed by 2015. Under
Related’s agreement with Coach, the accessories company would
buy its almost 740,000-square-foot portion. Ross hopes to
announce new leases for the building by the end of the year, he
said in an interview after the groundbreaking.  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG) , New York’s largest office landlord,
said in a  presentation  yesterday that  L’Oreal SA (OR)  is rumored to
be the second tenant. It included the Paris-based cosmetics
maker on a list of pending leases designed to demonstrate the
health of the New York office market. The list indicated L’Oreal
would take about 400,000 square feet.  Joanna Rose , a Related spokeswoman, declined to comment on
SL Green’s presentation. Stephanie Carson-Parker, a spokeswoman
for L’Oreal, said the company doesn’t comment on rumors.  Train Platform  Related plans to build most of Hudson Yards on a platform
over the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority ’s train yards
near the  Hudson River . The yards are a staging area for Long
Island Rail Road trains that terminate at Pennsylvania Station,
to the east of the site.  The first tower is one of two buildings to be built on
solid ground north of West 30th Street. The other will be
primarily a residential tower with an attached cultural “shed”
that would have gallery and performing space.  The entire 7.1 million-square-foot eastern portion should
be completed by 2018, said Jay Cross, president of Related’s
Hudson Yards development company.  “We think it’s pretty impressive that we got this far
given the economy we’re working in,” he said in an interview.  Olympic Stadium  The start of construction comes seven years after Bloomberg
sought unsuccessfully to build a stadium on the site, a plan
that was the centerpiece of the city’s unsuccessful bid for this
year’s  Olympic Games . Three years later, Related was awarded
development rights. Its partner is Toronto-based Oxford
Properties, a real estate investment unit of the Ontario
Municipal Employees Retirement System.  Finding companies to occupy the site has been challenging
since the 2008 financial crisis. In April 2011, Ross said he
expected to have deals on more than 3 million square feet of
offices by the end of that year. Last month he told  Betty Liu  on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” that he had a commitment
for $400 million of construction financing for the Coach tower.  “The term sheet for our loan is agreed upon, and we’re
moving forward,” Ross said in the interview today. He declined
to identify the lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  