-- Rio Tinto Sells Bonds as European Debt Risk Drops for Fourth Day
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-12-04T12:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/rio-tinto-sells-bonds-as-european-debt-risk-drops-for-fourth-day.html
Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  joined Deutsche Post AG
and retailer Metro AG in selling bonds while corporate credit
risk fell for a fourth day as U.S. leaders seek to forge a
budget deal and euro-area finance ministers meet in Brussels.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly junk credit ratings fell two basis
points to 483 at 12 p.m. in  London , the lowest since Oct. 19.
Corporate bonds yield 2.16 percent on average, near last week’s
record low and down from 4.4 percent at the start of the year,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporate Index shows.  U.S. leaders are preparing for more budget talks after a
Republican plan to tackle the so-called fiscal cliff was
rejected, while finance chiefs in  Europe  were confident  Greece ’s
bond buyback plan will help pave the way for further aid
payouts. Bond sales remain buoyant after November’s record as
cheap borrowing rates continued to draw corporate borrowers.  “The situation in Greece is improving so spreads continue
to grind tighter,” said Juan Esteban Valencia, a strategist at
Societe Generale SA in Paris. “I don’t see what can derail
credit substantially at this point and issuance should remain
strong in the two weeks ahead of the year end break.”  Rio Tinto  is selling benchmark bonds in euros in two parts,
with a portion due May 2020 yielding 80 basis points more than
swaps, and piece due December 2024 with a spread of 110 basis
points, according to people familiar with the deal. The London-
based mining company is also issuing bonds in pounds due 2029
yielding 165 basis points more than U.K. gilts.  Deutsche Post  Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  is selling 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion)
of debt, including 1 billion euros of convertible bonds and two
portions of conventional securities, Europe’s largest postal
service said today in a statement. The Bonn-based company’s 2.95
percent bonds due 2022 fell 0.7 percent to 104.6 cents on the
euro, the lowest since Oct. 6 and the biggest faller in Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporates Non-Financial index.  Metro,  Germany ’s biggest retailer, is selling 500 million
euros of bonds due May 2018 that will be priced to yield 140
basis points more than the swap rate, according to people
familiar with the deal. The company is selling the bonds through
its Metro Finance BV unit.  Sales of company bonds in euros rose to 22.4 billion euros
in November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg tracking
issuance of non-financial borrowers. Companies have raised 168
billion euros this year, the most since the record 221 billion
euros for all of 2009.  Indexes Fall  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 European banks and insurers dropped two basis points to 153,
approaching the lowest in 16 months. The subordinated index fell
six basis points to 268.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of contracts on 125
companies with investment-grade ratings was little changed at
119.5 basis points.  A basis point on swaps contract a protecting 10 million
euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent to 1,000
euros a year. The derivatives pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  