-- Ruble Strengthens as Euro Advances on Europe Minister Meeting
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-12-04T15:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/ruble-declines-for-third-day-on-crude-oil-u-s-budget-talks.html
The ruble strengthened, erasing
earlier declines, as the euro rallied on speculation European
Union finance ministers will make further progress on stemming
the region’s debt crisis.  The ruble appreciated 0.2 percent to 30.8376 against the
dollar at the close in in Moscow. The currency was little
changed versus the central bank’s euro-dollar target basket and
depreciated 0.2 percent against the euro to 40.3975.  The euro strengthened against the dollar to a six-week
high, gaining as much as 0.4 percent, as EU finance ministers
meet in Brussels today to discuss setting up a common bank
supervisor.  Greece  yesterday offered to spend as much as 10
billion euros ($13 billion) to buy back bonds.  Europe  is
Russia’s biggest trading partner.  “The ruble is following the euro rally,” Igor Akinshin,
trader at Moscow-based  Alfa Bank , said by phone.  The Russian currency declined earlier as oil, the country’s
chief export earner, fell and concern the U.S. deficit will slow
growth curbed investor appetite for riskier assets. President
 Barack Obama  and Republican lawmakers are trading offers on ways
to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of more than $600 billion in
spending cuts and tax increases for 2013.  “We expect the U.S. fiscal cliff to be solved by the year
end and it will boost global sentiment,” Ivan Sinelnikov, an
economist at OAO Gazprombank in Moscow, said by e-mail. “Russia
will be among beneficiaries of that process,” said Sinelnikov,
who sees the ruble at 30 to 30.5 against the dollar by the end
of the year.  Non-deliverable forwards showed the ruble at 31.3025 per
dollar in three months compared with 31.3290 yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to own  Russia ’s dollar
bonds over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points to 191,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index. An index
of five-year government bond yields was little changed at 6.5228
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  