-- Russia Pension Cuts Risk Long-Term Funding, Aganbegyan Says
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-12-04T09:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/russia-pension-cuts-risk-long-term-funding-aganbegyan-says-1-.html
Russia ’s planned cuts to state
pension investments threaten to reduce domestic capital and
hamper efforts to lure foreign funds, according to Ruben Aganbegyan, chief executive officer of Otkritie Financial Corp.  “What you do is you kill pretty much the only source of
long money institutionalized in the country,” Aganbegyan, who
ran the Moscow stock exchange until September, said in an
interview in London yesterday. “For Russia as a country and for
its economy, it’s much more important to concentrate on long
money.”  President  Vladimir Putin  has backed plans to divert tax
revenue from funding future  retirement plans  in order to meet
current pension payments and narrow the state system’s deficit.
The law should be ready by mid-2013 so it can come into force at
the start of 2014,  Dmitry Peskov , Putin’s spokesman, said by
phone on Nov. 14. Investment from Russia’s pension, insurance
and mutual funds is equivalent to 8 percent of gross domestic
product, compared with a global average of 120 percent, Finance
Minister Anton Siluanov said at a Nov. 20 conference in Moscow.  The pension changes coincide with government efforts to
attract more foreign capital by allowing Euroclear Bank SA to
begin processing some Russian securities in January. The Moscow
Exchange, the bourse formed from the merger of the Micex and
RTS, will move to settling transactions over two days by the end
of 2013 from the current immediate settlement, to bring
procedures into line with international norms, Sergey Sinkevich,
the head of primary markets at the bourse said at a conference
in  London  on Nov. 13.  ‘Magnet’  Aganbegyan, who oversaw the merger of the two exchanges,
said the pension changes risk limiting the foreign inflows that
should come from the opening up of the markets.  “You need to remove the obstacles so the capital can fly
freely but this will not necessarily mean that the capital will
switch from London to Moscow because you then have to create a
magnet,” said Aganbegyan.  “The magnet is the internal long
capital.”  Money is leaving Russia even as the price of Urals crude,
the nation’s chief revenue earner, has climbed to an average
$110.47 a barrel this year from $109.47 a barrel in 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Investors withdrew $61 billion this
year through October and total net capital outflows may exceed
the $67 billion estimated for this year, Bank Rossii First
Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in Moscow on Nov. 23.  “The exchange can resolve the obstacles to trade, the
exchange cannot resolve the investment climate,” Aganbegyan
said.  Trillion Deficit  Otkritie is 15.92 percent-owned by state-run VTB Group.
Moscow-based Otkritie holds 19.9 percent of OAO Nomos Bank,
Russia’s second-largest non-state lender, and plans to increase
its stake to 100 percent within two years.  Aganbegyan will replace Igor Vayn as head of Otkritie
Capital brokerage, while retaining his position as CEO of the
entire corporation, Otkritie said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Investment banking  remains “a key” business for the
financial group, Aganbegyan said in the statement.  The government is seeking to limit costs as the State
Pension Fund deficit is set to exceed 1 trillion rubles ($32.4
billion) this year, equivalent to 1.8 percent of GDP. The
planned changes would cut the share of payroll  tax revenue 
invested for future retirees -- known as the funded part of the
system -- to 2 percent from 6 percent, while increasing the
share that pays current retirees to 20 percent from 16 percent.  “Foreign money will only come in if there is local
money,” said Aganbegyan. “The big funds, very respectable
funds worldwide, are not going to be the only ones believing in
the long term. They want to see that locals believe in the long
term as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  