-- Russia Urged to Eliminate Private Lotteries in Ministry Proposal
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-12-04T14:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/russia-urged-to-eliminate-private-lotteries-in-ministry-proposal.html
Russia  should consider leaving the
federal government as the only operator of lotteries to generate
more revenue for socially important spending, according to the
 Economy Ministry .  Lotteries are widely being used as a cover for covert
gambling activity, and the government’s “uncontrolled
issuance” of licenses to conduct them has generated little in
revenue, the  ministry  in Moscow said today in an e-mailed
statement. Many draws are also “extremely non-transparent” in
distributing revenue to the social causes they were registered
to benefit, according to the statement.  Russia has banned most gambling, outlawing casinos and
slot-machine parlors in 2009, and established four far-flung
zones across the country for development as gambling areas.
While there are no official data for the volume of the lottery
business in Russia, it may be worth at least $400 million to
$500 million a year, the ministry said, citing analysts.  “In our opinion, Russia’s legislation must be overhauled
in the shortest possible time,” the ministry said in the
statement.  Russia’s tax service has issued 4,000 licenses to conduct
lotteries since 2005, Vedomosti  reported  yesterday. First Deputy
Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  ordered the Finance and Economy
Ministries last month to draft legislation that would only
permit nationwide lotteries approved by the government, the
newspaper reported.  The Economy Ministry estimated that the budget may earn as
much as 10 billion rubles ($324 million) a year in additional
revenue, Vedomosti said, citing an unidentified government
official.  The federal government now oversees three lotteries, one
run by the  Finance Ministry , one by the Sports Ministry, and a
third by the  Defense Ministry ’s construction agency, according
to the Economy Ministry proposals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  