-- Russian Billionaire Unearthed With Soybean Meal Fortune
-- B y   A l e x   S a z o n o v
-- 2012-12-04T14:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/russian-billionaire-unearthed-with-soybean-meal-fortune.html
In 1993, Alexander Lutsenko abandoned
a fledgling military career in the Russian army to test an
economic adage he learned while studying at the Political
College of Arms in Minsk. Even in the most difficult times, the
saying went, a well-managed agriculture business is always
profitable.  Lutsenko founded a trading company that became Luxembourg-
based Sodrugestvo Group SA,  Russia ’s largest soybean meal
producer, and encountered plenty of opportunities to see whether
the theory would hold.  When the Russian ruble crashed in 1998, he drew upon the
company’s  U.S. dollar  cash reserves to pay his most important
foreign creditors first. A decade later, as competitors scaled
back amid the global recession, he expanded, investing in new
factories, sea terminals and railroads.  “Our company has always grown in crises,” Lutsenko said
in a November interview at his office in the city of Svetliy in
Russia’s Kaliningrad region, located on the  Baltic Sea . “We
have cast-iron discipline.”  That discipline helped the 50-year-old and his wife,
Natalia, amass a 10-figure fortune, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index. Sodrugestvo generated about $1.7 billion in
revenue last year -- double its sales in 2008 -- and controls 33
percent of the Russian market for soybean meal, an additive used
in  animal feed . Lutsenko has never appeared on an international
wealth ranking.  Mitsui’s Investment  In July, the company announced that Tokyo-based  Mitsui &
Co. (8031) ,  Japan ’s second-largest trading house by market value, had
acquired a 10 percent stake in Sodrugestvo. The alliance will
bring Mitsui’s marketing and distribution resources to
Sodrugestvo’s grain operations, while providing Mitsui access to
the company’s livestock feed business in Russia and the former
Soviet republics.  Mitsui’s investment gave Sodrugestvo an enterprise value --
equity value plus total debt minus cash -- of $2.2 billion,
Sodrugestvo said in a news release. An agro-business industry
analyst in Russia familiar with Sodrugestvo’s financial
performance who asked not to be identified because the company
is closely held said it has about $250 million in net debt,
giving the company an equity value of $1.95 billion.  According to data compiled by Bloomberg, Sodrugestvo has an
equity value of at least $1.3 billion, based on the average
enterprise value-to-earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization and price-to-earnings multiples of
two publicly traded peers: Singapore-based  Wilmar International
Ltd. (WIL) , the world’s biggest palm-oil processor, and Warsaw-based
 Kernel Holding SA (KER) , a diversified agro-business company operating
in Ukraine.  Poultry, Pork  The value of Lutsenko’s company has surged during the last
decade, as government farm subsidies led to increased output by
Russian poultry and pork producers, the largest buyers of
soybean meal. From 2004 to 2011, Russian poultry output doubled
while its pork output increased 53 percent, according to the
Moscow-based National Meat Association.  Those increases boosted Russia’s soybean business.
According to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture , Russia’s
soybean meal output is expected to reach 2 million tons in 2012,
69 percent more than in 2009. In 2011, Sodrugestvo produced
825,000 tons of soybean meal and 200,000 tons of  soybean oil ,
making up 70 percent of its revenue.  The company operates 2,225 rail cars, making it Russia’s
second-largest operator of grain hoppers, and owns almost 20
miles of train tracks that can hold as many as 580 cars. It also
controls a marine deep-water terminal, and a network of storage
facilities in  Brazil  and Russia that can hold as much as 950,000
tons of grain.  Military Discipline  Mitsui “sees potential for growth,” Lutsenko said. “We
want to become the first Russian agricultural company to become
a global player on the international soft commodities market.”  Lutsenko was born in East Berlin in 1962. In the early
1980s, after studying Soviet army propaganda as an 18-year-old
cadet, Lutsenko embarked on a military career. Discouraged after
the fall of the  Soviet Union , when officers of the new Russian
army were forced to take wage cuts, he left the service to
become an entrepreneur.  In 1994, he opened his first business, a trading company
that sold fish meal and other additives to suppliers of pork and
poultry feed. By the end of its third year, Lutsenko’s operation
included 42 warehouses throughout the  Commonwealth of
Independent States  that stored the feed additives. By 1998,
annual sales reached $150 million.  “We worked with any client, no matter if he bought one
kilogram of feed additives or 10 tons,” Lutsenko said. “We
were one of the biggest traders in the region.”  Crisis Management  Lutsenko also kept to his military roots. Many Sodrugestvo
executives are former army officers, a hiring strategy that he
implemented to help bring operational focus to his company --
something he said was lacking in many companies that emerged out
of the former Soviet Union.  In 1998, when the ruble lost more than three times its
value against the U.S. dollar and Russian customers faltered,
Lutsenko made sure his suppliers in western  Europe  were paid
first, a strategy that brought him credibility from additives
producers who had grown leery of dealing with Russian
businesses. Sodrugestvo soon became one of the biggest feed
additive traders in Russia.  In 2004, he began building a deep-water terminal near
Svetliy and two soybean crushing plants to reduce his dependence
on local and foreign suppliers. During the next three years, he
invested about $400 million in the assets, and is now spending
another $450 million on a third crushing plant and a warehouse
terminal in the Kaliningrad region.  Soybean Demand  “Sodrugestvo was the first company that saw the potential
of the soybean meal market,” said Andrey Sizov Jr., managing
director of Moscow-based market research firm SovEcon. “They
occupied this niche quickly and have since grown so fast that
there is not a lot of space left for another big player.”  A new crisis could loom for Lutsenko if demand for soybean
meal falters, or if it fails to match Sodrugestvo’s increased
capacity, Sizov said. Russia has agreed to eliminate import duty
on soybean meal in 2014 as part of its bid to join the  World
Trade Organization , which could result in greater soymeal
imports into the country.  In June 2012,  Fitch Ratings  placed a negative outlook on
Sodrugestvo, rating it a B in its first report on the company.
According to Pablo Mazzini, senior director of EMEA Corporates
at Fitch, the company has had an “aggressive” capital
expenditure expansion that brings possible “execution risk in
the use of the new capacity.”  Brazilian Expansion  Lutsenko is expanding his operation in Brazil which, along
with  Argentina , provides Russia with most of its soybean
imports. The new operations will increase the company’s
production, storage and distribution capacity in  South America .
In 2010, Sodrugestvo established a joint venture with CAROL, one
of the country’s biggest farm cooperatives and, a year later,
acquired Lider Armazens Gerais SA, Brazil’s largest closely held
provider of trans-shipment and storage of grain.  “We decided to develop our presence in Brazil both for the
origination and processing of soybeans and other commodities,
and to achieve access to one of the most dynamic markets in the
world,” said Stephane Frappat, Sodrugestvo’s chief executive
officer in a company statement released in December 2010.  Lutsenko said he expects the Brazil businesses will soon be
outperforming his domestic business.  “We don’t have the aim to grow impetuously in Russia,”
Lutsenko said. “We want to try our hand in other countries.”  The  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in  New York . The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sazonov in Moscow at 
 asazonov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  