-- Russia Inflation Probably Quickened Last Month Even as GDP Eased
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-12-04T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/russia-inflation-probably-quickened-last-month-even-as-gdp-eased.html
Russian inflation probably quickened
in November, even as the economy lost steam, because of faster
growth in the cost of non-food goods.  Consumer prices  advanced 6.6 percent from a year earlier
after slowing unexpectedly the previous month, according to the
median estimate of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Prices
rose 0.5 percent from October, a second poll of 17 economists
showed. The Moscow-based Federal Statistics Service will report
the data today or tomorrow.  Russia , the biggest emerging economy to raise interest
rates this year, is struggling to restrain price growth after
droughts in the U.S. and locally drove up food costs. Policy
makers want to cap inflation at 6.5 percent to 7 percent this
year, according to central bank Chairman Sergei Ignatiev, and
are targeting a 5 percent-6 percent rate in 2013.  While food costs have eased in recent weeks, bank lending
has supported sales of non-food products, Oleg Zasov, head of
the  Economy Ministry ’s macroeconomic forecasting department,
told reporters Nov. 22.  The ruble is the second-best performer over the last three
months among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, gaining 5.6 percent against the dollar. It
strengthened 0.2 percent to 30.8376 yesterday in Moscow.  GDP Slowdown  Russia’s economy expanded 2.3 percent from a year earlier
in October, decelerating for a fifth month and recording the
slowest growth since it started recovering from recession at the
start of 2010.  The pace of retail-sales growth unexpectedly declined to
3.8 percent in October after unemployment increased for the
first time since January and slower-than-estimated gains in
wages and incomes curbed consumer purchasing power.  After raising interest rates by a quarter-point in
September to tackle inflation, Bank Rossii left borrowing costs
unchanged at 8.25 percent in October and November. The central
bank, which is scheduled to discuss monetary policy on Dec. 10,
will probably hold rates flat for a third month, according to
Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at Otkritie Financial Corp.  “I don’t expect a rate increase,” Tikhomirov said by
phone. “If the central bank increases interest rates, there
will be a serious hit to economic growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  