-- Russia Stocks Drop First Day in 4 as U.S. Budget Sends Oil Lower
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-12-04T16:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/russia-stocks-drop-first-day-in-4-as-u-s-budget-sends-oil-lower.html
Russian (INDEXCF)  equities retreated for the
first time in four days as crude oil, the nation’s chief export
earner, fell and investors sold riskier assets amid a deadlock
in U.S. budget talks.  The Micex Index lost 0.7 percent to 1,411.83 by the close
in Moscow. Utilities and financial stocks declined at least 0.9
percent on average.  Russia ’s dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  sank
0.5 percent to 1,443.87. OAO Inter RAO UES dropped 1.3 percent,
while VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest lender, declined 1
percent.  Oil slid 1 percent to $88.19 a barrel in  New York  after
U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration rejected a
Republican budget plan, as the two sides try to avert more than
$600 billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts that
start in January, the so-called fiscal cliff. Russia receives
about half of its budget revenue from oil and natural gas.  “The fiscal cliff remains a key question, we’re not seeing
more clarity, investors continue to take profits today,”  Mark Rubinstein , head of research at IFC Metropol, said by phone from
Moscow. “Oil is being weighed down by the budget
negotiations.”  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of Commodities lost 0.9
percent to 644.78. Zinc, tin and nickel declined in  London .  Abramovich Stake  OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel  climbed 1.4 percent to 4,876 rubles,
the highest since Nov. 6 and the biggest Micex gainer today.
Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich  agreed to buy a 7.3 percent
stake in the miner as its two biggest owners seek to end a four-
year struggle for control of the company. United Co. Rusal
increased 0.8 percent to 183.87 rubles.  Abramovich’s Millhouse LLC investment company will acquire
the stake in Moscow-based Norilsk as part of a settlement
between its shareholders Rusal and billionaire  Vladimir Potanin ,
Hong Kong-listed Rusal said today in a statement. The purchase
price wasn’t disclosed.  “The main thing is the resolution of the shareholder
conflict,” Rubinstein said. “The market will be expecting
higher dividends from Norilsk now.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, was steady at $27.84 yesterday.
The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in
futures, increased 0.8 percent to 22.69 points.  Dixy Rallies  OAO Dixy Group, which operates more than 1,000 neighborhood
stores in Russia, rallied 5 percent to 360 rubles, the biggest
gain since July 3. The amount of shares traded was 56,410,
equivalent to 3.4 times the three-month average.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. lifted the stock to overweight from
underweight, Bank of America Corp. raised it to buy from neutral
and Alfa Bank increased its price estimate to 530 rubles, citing
the outlook for next year.  The retailer’s third-quarter net income jumped 18 percent
to 280 million rubles, the company said yesterday. Revenue rose
23 percent to 35.9 billion rubles.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21  emerging markets  tracked by
Bloomberg.  The Micex trades at 5.3 times  estimated earnings  after
adding 0.7 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10.4 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which has added
10 percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was approached by President
 Vladimir Putin ’s government to help improve the nation’s image
and lure investment, First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov 
said in an interview in New York yesterday.  New York-based Goldman Sachs invested more than $1 billion
of its own money to buy stakes in Russian companies including
Mail.ru Group Ltd. and Tinkoff Credit Systems in recent years,
arranging bond and equity offerings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  