-- Saudi Real Estate Rises on Labor Requirement Bets: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-12-04T14:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/saudi-real-estate-rises-on-labor-requirement-bets-riyadh-mover.html
Saudi Real Estate Co. (SRECO)  rose to the
highest level in eight months on speculation construction
companies may be exempt from penalties on businesses where the
majority of workers are non-Saudis.  The shares advanced 2.8 percent to 29 riyals, the highest
since April 7, at the close in the Riyadh, bringing a surge in
the past  six trading days  to 22 percent. About 1.2 million
shares were traded, compared with a 12-month daily average of
about half a million. The stock fell 1.8 percent last month. The
benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  slipped 0.2 percent today
after rallying 4.2 percent the previous four trading days.  The Labor Ministry said last month it will impose a monthly
fee of 200 riyals ($53) for every foreign worker if the
employer’s workforce comprised less nationals than foreigners.
The kingdom, the largest Arab economy, is pushing ahead with the
decision, Arab News reported Nov. 25, citing Labor Ministry
spokesman Hattab Al-Anazi. Two calls made to the Labor
Ministry’s office in  Riyadh  weren’t answered.  “There is speculation that construction companies may be
excluded” from the decision, is pushing real estate shares up,
said Asim Bukhtiar, head of research at Riyad Capital. “There
has been quite a bit of discussion and debate and the lobbying
is ongoing at the labor ministry; otherwise construction costs
are expected to skyrocket,” he said.  The Tadawul All Share Building & Construction Index,
comprised of 15 construction companies, rose 0.2 percent today,
bringing a rally the past five days to 4.1 percent. The Tadawul
All Share Real Estate Development Industries Index increased 0.4
percent, bringing a gain the past five days to 4.7 percent.  The percentage of Saudi workers in non-government companies
is between 2 percent and 10 percent, Arab News reported last
week, citing Labor Minister Adel Fakeih. There are about 8.4
million foreign workers in the kingdom, including 6.9 million
employed by non-government companies, he said.  The planned fee is a “small amount to pay for the benefit
of their country,”  Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal , chairman of
 Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) , said in a statement yesterday. The Labor
Ministry wants to encourage companies to stop the “culture of
importing cheap labor,” the Saudi Press Agency cited Deputy
Minister of Labor Moufarrej al-Haqbani as saying on Nov. 13.  The decision comes as  Saudi Arabia  plans to build 500,000
homes as part of infrastructure investments exceeding $500
billion, spurring the fastest pace of construction industry
lending in at least four years.  Third-quarter profit  at Saudi Real Estate rose 40 percent
to 47.2 million riyals ($12.6 million). The stock has a  12-month
dividend yield  of 3.5 percent, compared with a dividend yield of
3.7 percent for the benchmark Tadawul.  Six analysts  recommend investors buy the shares of Saudi
Real Estate while three have a hold rating on the stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  