-- Scene in D.C.: Koons’s Diplomacy; Akerson Fights Hunger
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-12-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/scene-in-d-c-koons-s-diplomacy-akerson-fights-hunger.html
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
climbed to the top of a 20-foot cube made of 4,000 packs of
Post-it notes Friday night to get a better look at the party in
the  National Portrait Gallery ’s courtyard.  Senator  Roy Blunt , Missouri Republican, and his wife,
Abigail, caught up with British Ambassador  Peter Westmacott  near
a yellow pyramid crafted with 1.5 million Crayola crayons.  This nexus of the straitlaced and the quirky was pulled
together at the Department of State’s Art in Embassies 50th
anniversary gala, capping a week of events championing art and
culture in international diplomacy.  The event was designed by  David Stark , who was inspired by
building blocks.  The company behind Post-its,  3M (MMM) , along with Crayola and
Coca Cola Co., were among the party’s sponsors. Another
benefactor, Benjamin Moore & Co., whipped up a birthday cake, 16
feet around, constructed with 300 cans of Benjamin Moore paint.  Art Medals  Art in Embassies, modeled on a program begun in 1953 by the
Museum of  Modern Art , is a public-private partnership that lends
works to American embassies and consulates.  The evening was a toast to the State Department’s 2012
Medals of Art honorees  Jeff Koons , Cai Guo-Qiang, Kiki Smith,
Carrie Mae Weems, and Shahzia Sikander.  I asked the affable Koons, nursing an arm injured in a
horseback riding accident, how he would approach a piece about
the fiscal cliff.  He said the work would depict “coming out of Plato’s cave.
It would be something about enlightenment.”  Koons loaned his “Tulips” to the American embassy in
Beijing for 10 years. Weems’ work can be seen in Madagascar.  Leaders in the arts including D. Dodge Thompson, chief of
exhibitions at the  National Gallery of Art , chatted with Marcee
Craighill, the director of the Diplomatic Reception Rooms.  “Meet the Press” anchor David Gregory had a date night
with his daughter, Ava.  Food stations boasted international cuisine like Peking
duck as well as a chocolate demolition bar with gourmet
chocolate bricks.  Feeding Homeless  General Motors (GM)  chairman and chief executive Daniel Akerson
quoted from the gospel of St. Matthew and the “Gospel of
Wealth” at Friday night’s 26th So Others Might Eat annual gala.  The crowd of 900 at the National Building Museum dinner
helped raise a record $1 million for the homeless and hungry in
Washington, where 30,000 people live below the poverty line.  Akerson joked with SOME’s president  John Adams , a priest,
about his stint as an altar boy.  Another former altar boy, Akerson’s long-time friend
 Carlyle Group (CG)  Management LLC. co-founder  William Conway  credits
his faith as the inspiration of his giving.  Conway called Akerson, whom he met at MCI Communications
Corp. 30 years ago, “the best man I know.”  Akerson has donated his GM salary to charity over the past
several years and gave a last minute check to SOME to make sure
the organization hit the million dollar mark.  Earlier this year Conway gave $5 million to SOME’s Center
for Employment Training, allowing the staff to triple its
outreach numbers. He attended the dinner with thirty of his
Carlyle Group colleagues, many of whom have worked in SOME’s
soup kitchens.  A Roquefort cheese pastry was served before grilled flank
steak. Pumpkin cheesecake rounded out the meal.  General Dynamics (GD) 
Corp., GM and Greysteel were among the gala’s major benefactors.  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on theater and
Katya Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 