-- Scene Last Night: Kingdon, Richard Perry, Theodore Wang
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-12-04T16:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/scene-last-night-kingdon-richard-perry-theodore-wang.html
The editor-in-chief of Vogue  China ,
Angelica Cheung, came to New York yesterday to be honored by the
 Museum of Chinese in America .  “I have to confess, I’m not American, but to have this
award, I guess I am becoming an unofficial Chinese-American,”
Cheung said in a coral Jason Wu cocktail dress.  Everyone was an honorary Chinese-American last night,
including guests Richard Perry, president of Perry Parters LP,
who sat with Jenny Ming, chief executive officer of  Charlotte 
Russe Holding Inc., and Mark Kingdon, president of Kingdon
Capital Management, who sat with his daughter Jessica, a
documentary and experimental filmmaker.  The event at Cipriani Wall Street celebrated the
flourishing of Chinese in America (a story the museum, designed
by Maya Lin and located on Center Street in  Manhattan ’s
Chinatown, tells), as well as China’s powerful economy.  On the Chinese-American story, the exemplars of success
were honorees Silas Chou, CEO of Novel Holdings Group, which
owns a majority interest in Michael Kors Inc., architect Calvin
Tsao, and the team behind Opening Ceremony and Kenzo, Carol Lim
and Humberto Leon.  On the China story was Cheung’s Vogue China, which started
publishing in 2005. Today the magazine has so many advertisers
that Cheung has to produce 300 pages of editorial for each
issue. By comparison, Anna Wintour at American Vogue produces
about 100 pages of editorial and is considered very successful,
Harold Koda, head of the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan
Museum of Art, said in his introduction of Cheung.  Changing Market  The average reader of Vogue China is “about 30 years old,
university-educated, with a fairly good income,” Cheung said in
an interview. “China is a market that’s changing so rapidly --
what happened in the last five years, happened in  Europe  in 50
years -- so it’s hard to define specifically.”  The magazine covers the already wealthy, the emerging
wealthy “in second- and third-tier cities,” and the university
student who aspires to wealth.  “You need to cater to the highly sophisticated people and
you need to do a lot of education,” the editor said. “Somehow
they have to exist in the same magazine fluidly and
intelligently.”  She also wants to create “a platform for a new generation
of Chinese designers to go international,” Cheung said. She has
arranged a six-week residency in New York for designer Uma Wang
through the Council of Fashion Designers of America.  Previous Bob  “If they can combine a certain kind of Chinese sensibility
into what is considered a modern expression, that would be good,
but I’m not actively looking for Chinese-ness,” Cheung said.  Just then, Derek Lam walked up to say hello. Other
designers -- Jason Wu, Vivienne Tam, Mary Ping, Yoehlee Teng --
were not far behind. They would probably all like to be in
Cheung’s Vogue as much as Wintour’s.  Cheung even has a bob like Wintour’s. “People are always
telling me that,” Cheung said. “I had it 10 years before this
job.”  The event raised more than $1.3 million.  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  -- represented by partner Theodore T. Wang -- matched
donations made on pledge cards at the dinner tables.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Manuela Hoelterhoff on  theater  and
Katya Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 