-- Schroder Sees Bond Rally as Foreigner Cap Raised: India Credit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2012-12-04T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/schroder-sees-bond-rally-as-foreigner-cap-raised-india-credit.html
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  and
Schroder Investment Management Ltd. said monetary easing and a
plan to let foreigners buy more Indian debt will spur gains in
the highest-yielding bonds among major Asian economies.  The limit on holdings of sovereign and corporate debt was
increased by $5 billion each last week as the government plans
record borrowings to fund its budget deficit amid the slowest
economic growth since 2009.  India ’s benchmark 10-year debt
 yields  286 basis points more than Indonesian similar-maturity
debt, an eight-month high.  “Raising the foreign investment cap is probably sensible
given in all likelihood they’ll be seeing some fairly notable
fiscal slippage,”  Kenneth Akintewe , a Singapore-based  fund
manager  at Aberdeen, said in an interview on Dec. 3. “There’s
demand for government debt, which the government has typically
restricted access to. They should be encouraging and allowing
far more foreign investor participation in the market.”  Overseas  holdings  of rupee debt have risen $6.1 billion
this year to $32.2 billion as the  Reserve Bank  of India loosened
policy and the government unveiled a slew of policy changes to
avert a debt rating downgrade. Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said Oct. 30 there’s a “reasonable likelihood” of an
interest-rate reduction next quarter as inflation is expected to
slow. The next RBI review is due Dec. 18.  “Indian yields stand out in the entire region and are very
attractive,” Rajeev  De Mello , who oversees $7 billion as the
head of fixed-income assets at Schroder Investment Management
Ltd. in  Singapore  said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“There are expectations of rate cuts by early next year, and
that should be generally positive for Indian bonds.”  Yield Comparison  India’s benchmark 10-year bond yield was little changed at
8.17 percent yesterday. That’s higher than the 3.5 percent in
 China , 4.5 percent in the  Philippines  and 5.4 percent in
 Indonesia . The spread to Indonesia is “very high,” said De
Mello.  Subbarao will cut the benchmark repurchase rate to 7.50
percent from 8 percent by March, according to 11 of 19 analysts
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Two expect no change, five predict a
cut to 7.75 percent, one to 7 percent.  The governor has refrained from adding to a 50 basis-point
reduction in April as  inflation  remained above the central
bank’s comfort of around 5 percent. He lowered reserve
 requirements  for banks to a 36-year-low of 4.25 percent to free
up funds for lending.  RBI Forecasts  Subbarao cut the RBI’s  growth  forecast for the fiscal year
ending March 31 from 6.5 percent to 5.8 percent, the least in a
decade, raised its estimate for gains in wholesale prices from 7
percent to 7.5 percent and said consumer prices will stay
elevated mainly due to food costs. Gross domestic product rose
5.3 percent in the July-September  quarter , government data show,
matching the slowest pace since 2009.  The 10-year sovereign yield has dropped 40 basis points
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show, heading for the
first annual decline since 2008. The rate may drop a further 37
basis points to 7.80 percent by the end of March, according to
the median forecast of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has stepped up efforts since
mid-September to improve government finances and revive the
economy, cutting energy subsidies and allowing more foreign
investment in industries including aviation and retailing.  The policy measures came after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings lowered India’s sovereign credit outlook, citing a
widening budget deficit and a slump in economic growth and
investment. Both companies rank India’s debt BBB-, the lowest
investment grade.  Budget Deficit  The budget  shortfall  will be 5.6 percent of GDP this fiscal
year, compared with the government’s 5.3 percent target,
according to the median estimate of six investors and analysts
surveyed last week by Bloomberg News, as slower growth crimps
revenue. The deficit was 3.68 trillion rupees ($67.3 billion) in
the seven months through October, according to government data,
or almost 72 percent of the annual target.  A volatile currency and restrictions on foreign holdings
of local debt may deter investors, Walter Rossini, who manages
about $200 million in Indian assets at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA
in Milan, said by telephone yesterday. “These together can
change the timing of the flows into the markets,” he said.  Volatile Rupee  One-month implied volatility for the rupee, a measure of
expected fluctuations used to price options, is at 10 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the highest in  Asia .
India’s currency fell 6.4 percent in the past year in the second
worst performance among the region’s 11 most-traded currencies.
It rose 0.2 percent to 54.6850 per dollar yesterday.  Global investors are required to bid for quotas to buy
Indian bonds that must be utilized within a specified period,
and come with restrictions such as minimum lock-in periods.  Rupee-denominated debt returned 9.6 percent this year, the
best performance after Indonesia among Asia’s biggest local-
currency fixed-income markets, HSBC Holdings Plc data show.  Credit risk for government-controlled  State Bank  of India,
considered a proxy for the sovereign by some investors, touched
a 15-month low of 239 basis points on Dec. 3. The cost of
insuring the Mumbai-based lender’s debt for five years against
non-payment using credit-default swaps fell 156 basis points
this year, according to data provider CMA.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should the borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “At current levels, Indian yields are attractive for
global investors,” Sri Prasad Prabhu, the head of fixed-income
at IDBI Federal Life Insurance Co. in Mumbai, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. Increasing the limit on overseas
holdings is “a welcome move and will continue the process of
widening of  debt market . Foreign institutional investors
generally prefer shorter-term instruments, so it will increase
liquidity in the front end of the yield curve,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net 
RBI IN <Equity> 