-- SEC Auditor Case Seen Jeopardizing Chinese U.S. Listings
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-12-04T23:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/sec-auditor-case-seen-jeopardizing-chinese-u-s-listings.html
U.S. regulators, in a move to
sanction auditors for blocking investigations at China-based
companies, have set a course that jeopardizes the listing of
more than 100 stocks from the world’s most populous nation.  In a Dec. 3 enforcement action against the China-based
affiliates of the Big Four accounting firms, the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission escalated a three-year impasse between
the two nations over whether auditors can share work documents
with regulators investigating possible accounting fraud at
companies selling securities in the U.S.  “Chinese companies that are listed on U.S. exchanges are
being held captive in a sovereignty dispute,” Jim Feltman,
senior managing director at Mesirow Financial Consulting in New
York. “This is a step in the process to deregister companies
that can’t comply with U.S. audit rules. They’ll have to leave
the U.S. marketplace if their auditors cannot or will not be
responsive to the SEC.”  Of about 400 Chinese companies that trade in the U.S., at
least 115 have been audited by the domestic subsidiaries of the
Big Four accounting firms, according to data on stocks with
market values of at least $5 million compiled by Bloomberg. More
than half are audited by units of Deloitte, Ernst & Young, KPMG
or PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Fraud Allegations  The auditors say Chinese law prevents them from complying
with the SEC’s demands, hindering U.S. efforts to probe
allegations of fraud that have wiped 61 percent from a  gauge  of
Chinese and Hong Kong stocks traded in North America since
January 2011. Failure to reach an agreement on cross-border
access to records may prompt U.S. regulators to seek to
deregister the firms, said Paul Gillis, professor at Peking
University’s Guanghua School of Management.  “I don’t think there’s a resolution in sight,” Gillis,
also an adviser to the  Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board , said from Beijing. “China is hypersensitive to the idea
of foreigners operating within its borders and enforcing foreign
law. The next step is likely to be the PCAOB trying to
deregister accounting firms it can’t inspect. It’s eventually
all leading to the de-listing of Chinese firms in the U.S.”  The SEC, PCAOB,  China ’s  Ministry of Finance  and the China
Securities Regulatory Commission have been unable to resolve
differences over the inspection of audit documents. Chinese law
bans the removal offshore of audit papers, while foreign
regulators aren’t allowed to work inside the country’s borders.  ‘Nearing Crossroads’  PCAOB Chairman James Doty said talks and negotiations with
the Chinese government are proceeding.  “I continue to believe the Chinese regulatory authorities
have every reason to resolve these issues of transparency and
access to audit work papers,” Doty said in a statement. “There
is no question that we are nearing a crossroads, a decision
point.”  Auditors who don’t comply with SEC demands face temporary
or permanent deregistration in the U.S., according to the  rule 
under which the proceedings are being brought. China-based
auditors signed off on 26 percent of the 159 so-called reverse
mergers by Chinese companies in the U.S. between Jan. 1, 2007,
and March 31, 2010, Lewis Ferguson, a PCAOB board member,  said 
at an SEC conference in September.  “Only with access to work papers of foreign public
accounting firms can the SEC test the quality of the underlying
audits and protect investors from the dangers of accounting
fraud,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a
statement. “Firms that conduct audits knowing they cannot
comply with laws requiring access to these work papers face
serious sanctions.”  Sino-Forest  The CSRC didn’t immediately respond to requests for
comment. Questions faxed to the Ministry of Finance were not
immediately answered.  The SEC has deregistered the securities of almost 50
companies and filed fraud cases against more than 40 issuers and
executives as part of its investigation into the non-U.S. based
firms. Many of them entered U.S. capital markets through reverse
mergers, in which a closely held firm buys a shell company
already public on an exchange, allowing them to list shares
without the scrutiny of a public offering.  Joseph Christinat, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, and NYSE
spokesman  Rich Adamonis , declined to comment.  A gauge of Chinese and Hong Kong stocks listed in North
America has tumbled since its January 2011 peak after short
sellers said companies including Sino-Forest Corp. were
manipulating their financial information, embezzling money and
lying about factories and customers.  Short-Selling  Five companies targeted by short-seller  Carson Block  in
2010 and 2011 lost almost $5 billion in market value through
June 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In addition
to Sino-Forest, Block’s Muddy Waters LLC also shorted China
MediaExpress Holdings Inc., which was delisted in the U.S., and
Rino International Corp. which trades for 2 cents a share over
the counter.  “The SEC is unfortunately two years too late,” Kevin Barnes, an equity analyst at Kerrisdale Capital Management LLC
in New York, said by telephone. “They are finally filing
enforcement action for events that relate to the 2010 fiscal
year or earlier,” he said.  Earlier this year, the agency announced a separate
enforcement action against the Shanghai-based Deloitte affiliate
after seeking to enforce a subpoena in federal court. This
week’s action brings to a head the question of whether the SEC
is sufficiently armed to protect U.S. investment dollars in
China, according to William McGovern, the Asia partner at law
firm Kobre & Kim LLP.  Hammer ‘Swinging’  “Simply swinging the hammer of enforcement, while
effective at garnering headlines, will likely not be enough to
achieve the SEC’s goal,” McGovern, a former SEC enforcement
attorney, said. “As capital flows from the U.S. to China at an
increasing rate the pressure will grow on the SEC to find a way
to forge compromise. The path to compromise may mean that the
SEC has to recognize China’s sovereign interest in protecting
certain industries or companies.”  Ernst & Young LLP will pay $117 million to settle claims in
a Canadian class-action suit that Sino-Forest and some of its
directors and officers, auditors and underwriters misled
investors about business and accounting at the now insolvent
Chinese timber trader, Siskinds LLP and Koskie Minsky LLP, the
law firms behind the action, said in a Dec. 3 statement.  “Ernst & Young Hua Ming supports close working
relationships between regulators to enable them to cooperate and
share information with one another,” Will White, director of
global and EMEIA media relations for Ernst & Young, said in an
e-mail statement. “We hope that an agreement can be reached
between U.S. and Chinese regulators that will enable our
compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.”  Diplomatic Solution  Geoffrey F. Aronow, an attorney for  KPMG  at Bingham
McCutchen LLP, declined to comment. KPMG China spokeswoman Nina Mehra said in an e-mailed response to questions that the firm is
“hopeful” that talks between the regulators will result in a
diplomatic resolution.  An e-mail to a lawyer for BDO wasn’t returned.  “The fact that the action is being taken collectively
against all of the four largest audit firms and one other firm
demonstrates that this is a profession-wide issue,” Caroline
Nolan, a PricewaterhouseCoopers spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
statement. “For its part, PwC China has cooperated with the SEC
at every opportunity. However, PwC China will, and must, comply
with its legal obligations under China law.”  Lauren Mistretta, a Deloitte spokeswoman, also said in an
e-mail that the issue needs to be resolved on a “profession-
wide basis.”  Canadian Action  Ernst & Young didn’t conduct audits of Sino-Forest in
accordance with accounting industry standards, the Ontario
Securities Commission said this week in a statement of
allegations. Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu resigned as auditor of
China MediaExpress five weeks after Block’s accusations in 2011,
saying it was “no longer able to rely on the representations of
management,” a filing said.  “Nobody really understood the consequences of listing
Chinese companies in the U.S.,” Peking University’s Gillis
said. “There was an assumption that the normal process would
continue to work. I don’t think there was any belief we’d see
the number of frauds we’ve seen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  