-- Senate Passes $631 Billion U.S. Defense Legislation
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-12-05T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/senate-passes-631-billion-u-s-defense-legislation.html
The Senate passed unanimously a
measure authorizing $631.4 billion for U.S.  defense programs 
this fiscal year that sticks to President  Barack Obama ’s
proposed spending total while drawing a veto threat with its
policy provisions.  The 98-0 vote yesterday in the Democratic-controlled Senate
advances legislation allowing about $543 billion for the basic
 defense budget  in the fiscal year that began Oct. 1, and an
additional $88 billion to fund wars in  Afghanistan  and
elsewhere. The legislation next must be reconciled with a House-
passed version that would spend $4 billion more than Obama
wants.  “This bill provides our men and women in uniform the
funding and support that they need as they engage in continued
combat in Afghanistan, work to track down al-Qaeda and
associated forces in the Arabian Peninsula and North Africa, and
perform other military missions around the world,” Senate Armed
Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat,
said during debate.  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc.,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD)  are among defense contractors that would benefit
because the legislation increases funding over this year’s
levels for fighter jets, missiles, submarines and other
programs.  The White House budget office said in a statement on Nov.
29 that the president’s senior advisers would recommend that he
veto the measure unless changes are made. The administration
objects in particular to policy provisions such as an amendment
that would prohibit the use of U.S. funds to transfer or release
detainees from the U.S. naval station in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  Iran Sanctions  The Senate also adopted, 94-0, an amendment calling for a
new round of economic sanctions against  Iran  over the
administration’s objection that adding more restrictions now
would undermine those already in place.  Senators also approved a non-binding amendment calling on
Obama to speed the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and to
require congressional review of any bilateral security agreement
with Afghanistan.  Doubt over the bill’s future adds to a climate of
uncertainty for the Pentagon, defense contractors and their
workers. Defense spending will be cut by $500 billion over a
decade starting next month unless Obama and Congress agree to
avert the confluence of automatic spending cuts and tax
increases known as the fiscal cliff.  Approval Ratings  The legislation’s supporters said the public’s perception
of a gridlocked Congress will only be exasperated if lawmakers
fail in their push during the final weeks of the congressional
session to complete work on the measure authorizing defense
programs.  “I do not need to remind my colleagues of our approval
ratings,” Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the top Republican on
the Senate Armed Services Committee, said in urging speedy
passage. “But there is ample reason for the disapproval because
we have not moved forward and done the people’s business.”  House-Senate negotiators would have to reconcile the Senate
version with the $635.2 billion measure that the House passed in
May. Among the differences, the House wants to authorize funding
for an East Coast missile-defense site, while the Senate
doesn’t. The U.S. currently has interceptor silos in Alaska and
 Hawaii .  The Senate measure seeks to curb cost overruns and poor
performance on weapons programs by barring so-called cost-plus
production contracts and requiring the Pentagon to ensure that
payments to contractors are more closely tied to performance.  Executive Pay  It also would curb the ability of large defense contractors
such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and BAE Systems Plc to charge the
government for a portion of their executives’ pay under cost-
type contracts that allow reimbursement for certain direct
costs. It caps Pentagon reimbursements for these salaries at
$237,000 per executive, a 70 percent decrease from current law.  The Senate bill endorses the Pentagon’s request to buy 29
F-35 stealth jets made by Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed
Martin. The Pentagon requested $9.1 billion for the F-35, its
most expensive program, including $6.1 billion for procurement.  The Senate measure authorizes funding for the multiyear
production of 10 DDG-51 Navy destroyers made jointly by General
Dynamics and Huntington Ingalls. It authorizes $153 million for
the Special Operations Command to buy high-definition
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance technology for its
drones and piloted aircraft.  Submarine, Tanks  Like the House, the Senate measure adds more than $700
million as a down payment on a second Virginia-class submarine.
Construction would start in fiscal 2014. The Virginia-class
submarine is built by  Huntington Ingalls (HII) , based in  Newport News ,
 Virginia , and the Electric Boat unit of  Falls Church , Virginia-
based General Dynamics.  Like the House, the Senate panel rejected Army plans to
suspend production of upgraded Abrams tanks built by General
Dynamics.  For military personnel the bill would authorize a 1.7
percent across-the-board pay increase for active-duty personnel,
in line with the administration’s request.  Both the House and Senate bills would end funding for the
multinational missile-defense program known as the Medium
Extended Air Defense System, which the U.S.,  Italy  and  Germany 
agreed to develop seven years ago to replace the Patriot defense
program. The administration had requested a final $400 million
for the MEADS program.  Syria, Pakistan  Senators adopted, 92-6, an amendment by McCain requiring
the secretary of defense to give Congress a classified report
within 90 days on “limited military activities” that could
block or limit the Syrian regime of Bashar al-Assad from using
air power against civilian and opposition groups in that war-
torn country.  It would require discussion of deploying no-fly zones over
population centers and using limited airstrikes to destroy
Syrian aircraft, moves the Obama administration has opposed.  Lawmakers also signaled their dissatisfaction with
 Pakistan ’s government.  The measure includes a provision barring certain U.S. funds
for Pakistan’s armed forces, unless the Pentagon certifies that
its government was keeping supply lines open, doesn’t support
extremist groups such as the Haqqani network and isn’t detaining
citizens such as a doctor who was convicted of treason after
aiding the U.S. effort that tracked down  Osama bin Laden .  The Senate defense bill is S. 3254. The House version is
H.R. 4310.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  