-- Serbs Protest Against Border With Kosovo Before Talks
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-12-04T12:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/serbs-protest-against-border-with-kosovo-before-talks.html
Serbs in  Kosovo ’s north protested
against the construction of border crossings between Serbia and
Kosovo before leaders from the two countries met to hammer out
details of a European Union-brokered plan on border management.  Serbian Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  and his counterpart from
Kosovo, Hashim Thaci, meet in Brussels today to finalize the
arrangement, due to begin Dec. 10 with stepped up customs
controls of trade between Serbia and Kosovo. Several hundred
people disrupted road-building works at a checkpoint, Milomir
Kuzmanovic, deputy chief of the Serb-populated Leposavic
municipality in Kosovo, said.  An agreement with Kosovo is key for Serbia to join the 27-
nation EU, which it needs to do in order to converge its economy
with  Europe  after the civil wars of the 1990s hurt the region’s
transformation from communism. Kosovo declared independence in
2008, a move that was recognized by the U.S. and 22 of the EU’s
members.  Serbia  sees the area as the cultural cradle of its
nation and has vowed to reject independence.  “We will never let anyone separate us from Serbia, no
border ever ran through this area,” Kuzmanovic said by phone,
adding that Serbs in Kosovo’s north don’t want customs controls
and seek free movement using Serbian documents and Serbian car
license plates.  The rally disrupted road-building works at checkpoint near
Jarinje, 180 kilometers (112 miles) south of Belgrade,
Kuzmanovic said.  Serbia wants the EU’s police and justice mission in Kosovo,
or Eulex, to have executive powers at the crossings, where both
Serbian and Kosovo customs officers will be checking trade.  Serbia formally became an EU candidate in March, after
fulfilling conditions such as the arrest and extradition of 46
Serbian war crimes suspects, including former strongman  Slobodan
Milosevic , ex-Bosnian Serb military commander Ratko Mladic and
Bosnian Serb leader  Radovan Karadzic .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  