-- Sinomach Said in Advanced Talks to Buy European Tool Maker MAG
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-12-04T17:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/sinomach-said-in-advanced-talks-to-buy-european-tool-maker-mag.html
China  National Machinery Industry
Corp., an agricultural and engineering equipment manufacturer,
is in advanced talks to buy MAG’s European machine-tool making
unit, people familiar with the matter said.  The Chinese company, known as Sinomach, may reach an
agreement by the end of the year, said two of the people, who
asked not to be identified as the discussions are private.
Negotiations are ongoing so the price may change and the deal
could still fall apart, the people said.  MAG’s U.S. unit is also being sold and Sinomach could
purchase that business as well, though U.S. division may also be
bought by another party, two of the people said. The European
and American units are owned separately since the European
business was handed over to a trustee in November 2011. The
European process is more advanced than the American one, two of
the people said. Together, the two businesses may be valued at
about 500 million euros ($653 million), two of the people said.  Sinomach is stepping up acquisitions overseas as it seeks
to increase production of high-end industrial equipment and
plant machinery. A purchase of MAG’s European unit, which traces
its roots to a company founded in 1798 in Remscheid,  Germany ,
would follow rising Chinese interest in German manufacturers
including  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) ’s acquisition of concrete-pump
maker Putzmeister Holding GmbH in January and  Weichai Power
Co. (2338) ’s stake purchase in forklift maker Kion Group GmbH in
August.  A spokeswoman for Sinomach declined to comment.  Technological Access  The purchase of MAG would give the Chinese access to
advanced technology in machine tooling and may enable Sinomach
to reduce reliance on importing machinery by setting up its own
production in China, one of the people said.  MAG has about 3,500 employees at 35 facilities throughout
 Europe , the U.S. and Asia and generated 2011 sales of $1.3
billion, according to its  website . The company provides machine
tools and systems for industries including automotive,
aerospace, oil and gas and wind and solar. The firm has expanded
globally by combining German and U.S. machine tool makers. It
lists Goeppingen, Germany, as the headquarters of MAG Europe and
Erlanger,  Kentucky , for MAG Americas.  YTO Group Corp., a agricultural machinery unit of Sinomach,
 bought  McCormick France SAS, a French manufacturer of tractors,
for 8 million euros. Sinomach Heavy Industry Corp. bought more
than 50 percent of a crane-making venture with  Terex Corp (TEX)  in
March.  Sinomach was established in January 1997 and is controlled
by the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration
Commission. The group has 50 subsidiaries, including 7 listed
companies, and had 191 billion  yuan  of operating revenue
reaching in 2011, according to its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  