-- Slovenian Lawmakers Adopt Pension Changes Extending Working Time
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-12-04T18:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/slovenian-lawmakers-adopt-pension-changes-extending-working-time.html
Slovenian lawmakers approved changes
to the country’s pension system, which has one of the highest
spending levels in the euro region, by extending the length of
time Slovenes need to be employed to get benefits.  Lawmakers voted 76-0 to adopt the changes, which include a
requirement of paying retirement contributions for 40 years to
qualify for pension benefits, according to a live broadcast from
the Parliament in Ljubljana, the capital. The previous changes
rejected in a referendum last year called for extending the
 retirement age .  “The aim of these changes is the financial stability of
the system to ensure uninterrupted payments of pensions,” Labor
Minister Andrej Vizjak said in Parliament before the vote. “The
reform package has been discussed with all social partners,
including most of the trade unions.”  Slovenia, whose  economy  slid into its second recession in
three years, is working on an economic overhaul to regain
competitiveness and avoid seeking an international bailout to
prop up its banking industry. The rejection of pension-system
changes in June last year marked the start of the fall of the
previous government under Prime Minister  Borut Pahor  and a
series of credit rating cuts.  Slovenia is rated Baa2 at Moody’s Investors Service, the
second lowest level in the investment category while Fitch
Ratings has an A- and A at Standard & Poor’s. All three
companies keep a negative outlook on the sovereign.  In Jeopardy  “The current pension reform adjusts several parameters of
the pay-as-you-go system, with a focus on increasing actual and
statutory retirement ages,” the  International Monetary Fund 
said in a Nov. 29 report. “However, it will leave Slovenia
among the euro-area countries with the highest pension
expenditure as a ratio of gross domestic product, thus putting
planned medium-term consolidation achievements in jeopardy in
the longer run.”  Slovenia’s overhaul drive is being threatened by a
referendum on the bank recapitalization plan and the creation of
a wealth fund filed by a trade union and opposition leaders.  If the  Constitutional Court  allows the vote to go ahead and
people reject the measures in a referendum, the Adriatic nation
would probably need to ask for an international rescue package,
Finance Minister Janez Sustersic has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  