-- Slovakia Raises Income-Tax Rates to Boost Budget Revenue
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2012-12-04T16:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/slovakia-raises-income-tax-rates-to-boost-budget-revenue.html
Slovak lawmakers approved tax
increases for individuals and companies, dismantling the
previous system of a uniform 19 percent  tax rate  as the east
euro-region country seeks to boost budget revenue.  Deputies voted 80-60 to back the government’s proposal to
raise the corporate tax rate to 23 percent and impose a 25
percent top rate for income of individuals exceeding 2,867 euros
($3,749) per month. The changes are effective from next year.  The administration of  Robert Fico , in power since April,
relies on income-side measures rather than spending cuts to trim
the  budget deficit  below the European Union’s limit next year.
Dismantling the flat tax system, which helped the country
attract investment by carmakers such as PSA Peugeot Citroen or
 Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , worsens conditions for doing business and may
backfire, economists such as Lubomir Korsnak Unicredit Bank’s
unit in Bratislava said.  “It’s impossible to fix the budget without revenue-side
measures,” Korsnak said. “Still, Slovakia will have higher
taxes than its neighbors, with whom it competes for foreign
investment. But tax is only one factor, the change isn’t a
disaster.”  Tax increases for high earners and companies follow Fico’s
pre-election pledges to limit the impact of  fiscal consolidation 
on most citizens. As part of budget-saving measures, his
administration has already pushed through special tax surcharges
for banks and regulated telecommunication and energy companies.  The income-tax increases, which the opposition lawmakers
claimed could lead to an outflow of investment, should boost
revenue by 377 million euros, or 0.51 percent of economic
output, in 2013 and a combined 961 million euros in the
following two years, the  Finance Ministry  estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  