-- Sneijder Will Leave Inter Milan, Guardian Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-12-04T11:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/sneijder-will-leave-inter-milan-guardian-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Sneijder Alert  Wesley Sneijder  will leave Inter Milan after the Dutch
midfielder rejected demands that he reduce his wages, and
Manchester City and  Manchester United  are interested in signing
the player,  the Guardian said.   The 28-year-old may be available for as little as 15
million euros ($20 million), down from the 35 million euros that
Inter demanded from United in 2011, the newspaper said.  Sneijder wants to move to AC Milan, but the English clubs
may be willing to meet his salary requests, the newspaper said.  United Waits  Manchester United will have to wait to sign Borussia
Dortmund striker  Robert Lewandowski  after coach Jurgen Klopp
said he won’t sell the Polish national team member in next
month’s transfer window,  the Sun said.   United manager  Alex Ferguson  has watched Lewandowski
several times, and German newspapers speculated that Ferguson
has agreed to pay 12 million pounds ($19 million) for the 24-
year-old, the Sun said.  Sturridge Demands  Chelsea striker  Daniel Sturridge  is demanding 80,000 pounds
a week to move to Liverpool, the Daily Mirror said.  Liverpool is talking to the Blues about the 23-year-old,
but Reds executives are becoming concerned that he might not be
worth the investment because he’s only scored 5 times in 12
months, the newspaper said.  Sturridge had more success when he was playing in a wide
role, and is asking Liverpool to play him in the middle as a
striker, the newspaper said.  Gunning for Ba  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  will try to sign Newcastle
striker Demba Ba next month when a 7.5 million-pound release
clause is activated,  the Sun said.   Wenger will offer 60,000 pounds a week plus bonuses for the
27-year-old, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  