-- South Korea Candidates Call on North to Halt Its Rocket Launch
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-12-04T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/south-korea-candidates-call-on-north-to-halt-its-rocket-launch.html
South Korea’s ruling party and main
opposition presidential candidates called on North Korea to halt
plans to fire a rocket this month, while pledging to engage with
the totalitarian country to improve relations.  In a debate yesterday ahead of the Dec. 19 election, Park Geun Hye of the ruling New Frontier Party and Moon Jae In of the
Democratic United Party said a launch would further isolate the
regime. At the same time, neither backed away from a willingness
to meet North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in an effort to ease
tensions with the nuclear-armed state.  “There are no preconditions for dialogue with North
Korea,” Park said in Seoul. “If trust is built and there is
progress on denuclearizing North Korea, I will pursue a large-
scale project to boost economic cooperation.”  Kim’s plan to launch a rocket between Dec. 10-22 renewed
focus on South Korea’s security after both candidates pledged to
reverse a deterioration of bilateral ties under outgoing
President  Lee Myung Bak . A failed rocket launch in April cost
North Korea a food aid deal with the U.S. and brought increased
international sanctions against his impoverished regime.  “It is wrong for North Korea to raise inter-Korean tension
and tension in northeast Asia by launching a long-range
missile,” Moon said. “North Korean policy must bring about
inter-Korean reconciliation and through it, finding a new vision
and new growth potentials.”  Poll Lead  Park leads in the polls, putting her in line to become the
first female leader of Asia’s fourth-biggest economy. Her
support rose 1.5 percentage points to 49.7 percent, while Moon’s
fell 0.6 percent to 42.8 percent, according to a daily poll
published yesterday by Realmeter and JTBC, a television
affiliate of the JoongAng Ilbo newspaper. The survey of 1,500
people had a 2.5 percentage point margin of error.  Both Moon and Park have proposed summit talks with the
North for the first time since 2007. Park, 60, is the eldest
daughter of former president Park Chung Hee, whose wife was
killed during a 1974 North Korean assassination attempt on him.  She has called for installing offices in  Seoul  and North
Korean capital Pyongyang to improve communication and said she
would help North Korea join global financial and trade
organizations.  Moon’s DUP has long advocated improved ties and he has
pledged to invite North Korea officials to his inauguration.
Moon, 59, is a former human-rights lawyer jailed in 1975 for
leading street protests against the government of Park’s father,
Park Chung Hee. He served as chief of staff to President Roh Moo
Hyun, who was in office from 2003 to 2008 and followed the so-
called Sunshine Policy that encouraged reunions of families
separated by the border.  Nuclear Test  Lee, whose five-year term ends in February, abandoned the
policy on the grounds that it rewarded North Korea’s provocative
behavior. Relations deteriorated further in 2009 when North
Korea conducted its second nuclear weapons test, and again in
2010 with the sinking of a South Korean warship and shelling of
a border island, which left a total of 50 dead.  The two Koreas technically remain at war after their
1950-1953 conflict ended without a peace treaty. The U.S.
military has about 28,500 soldiers stationed in South Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  