-- South African Farmworkers Resume Protests Over Higher Wages
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-12-04T10:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/south-african-farmworkers-resume-protests-over-higher-wages.html
Farmworkers demanding higher wages in
South Africa’s biggest table grape-growing region resumed
protests today in the absence of new talks between the
government, labor unions and the main farmers organization.  About 150 people protested peacefully near a shanty town
outside Worcester in the Western Cape province, demanding that
the minimum wage be increased to 150 rand a day ($16.92) from 70
rand. In Stofland, on the outskirts of De Doorns, about 50
people marched through the streets of the settlement singing
songs and carrying banners of the United Democratic Front, a
civil rights group.  “We want 150,” said Ricardo van Wyk, a part-time grape
picker protesting outside Worcester, about 120 kilometers (74
miles) north-east of Cape Town. “It must happen today. We will
strike until we get that money.”  Farmworkers burnt down vineyards and sheds and caused
damages estimated at 120 million rand since strikes began on
Nov. 6, according to AgriSA. The Congress of South African Trade
Unions suspended the strike two weeks ago so negotiations could
begin.  Employers rejected a compromise proposal by unions to raise
pay to 100 rand plus a bonus based on harvest profits, South
Africa’s Business Day newspaper reported.  Harvest Season  A meeting between the negotiating parties scheduled for 10
a.m. local time was canceled by Tina Joemat-Pettersson, minister
of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, according to Carl
Opperman, provincial president of farmers’ group  AgriSA . A
meeting between the minister and “people from the farming
sector” is scheduled for today, Palesa Mokomela, a spokeswoman
for the minister, said by phone, declining to state a time.  South Africa’s worst mining strikes since the end of white
minority rule in 1994 started at platinum operations in August,
spreading to gold, coal and iron sites. Truck drivers went on a
2 1/2-week long strike on Sept. 24, also demanding higher wages.  The harvest season for table grapes in the province will
start at the beginning of January. South Africa is the
continent’s biggest exporter of the fruit.  “If things come right, we’ll stop the strike,” said
Johannes van Rooi, 27, who has worked on a grape farm for 12
years earning 75 rand a day. “You can’t even buy stuff your
kids need for school.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  