-- Soybeans, Corn and Wheat Drop as U.S. Budget Negotiations Stall
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-04T14:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/soybeans-corn-and-wheat-drop-as-u-s-budget-negotiations-stall.html
Soybeans, corn and wheat declined in
 Chicago , reversing earlier gains, as U.S. budget negotiations
stalled, raising uncertainty about the outlook for the economy.  Talks over the so-called U.S. fiscal cliff are stalled as
President  Barack Obama  and Republicans offer competing ways to
avoid more than $600 billion in automatic spending cuts and
taxes that will take effect in January if Congress doesn’t act.  “We’ve seen open interest in grains drop considerably, a
lot of that is coming off the uncertainty in  Washington ,” Paul
Georgy, president of Allendale Inc., said in a market-report
video today. “It seems like we’re not getting any closer to
solving this fiscal cliff situation, and that is providing some
negative attitude.”  Soybeans for delivery in January dropped as much as 0.4
percent on the Chicago Board of Trade and were down 0.1 percent
at $14.52 a bushel at 3:22 p.m. Paris time. The oilseed advanced
20 percent this year and reached a record $17.89 in September
amid the worst U.S. drought in half a century.  The  Congressional Budget Office  projects that the  U.S.
economy  would go into recession in the first half if the tax
increases and spending cuts occur and aren’t resolved.  Corn for delivery in March slipped 0.1 percent to $7.5425 a
bushel, after earlier gaining 0.3 percent. Demand for U.S. corn
exports picked up in recent weeks at about $7 a bushel,
according to Georgy.  “Currently we’re trading in this $7.50, $7.60 range, and
it seems to have shut off demand again,” Georgy said. “The
problem we’re seeing with demand is the price of U.S. corn in
the Gulf is $30 higher than South American corn.’  Wheat for delivery in March was little changed at $8.615 a
bushel. Milling wheat for delivery in January traded on NYSE
Liffe in Paris dropped 0.1 percent to 269 euros ($352.20) a
metric ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  