-- Four People Killed as Storm Bopha Slams Into Philippines
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-12-04T11:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/storm-bopha-slams-into-southern-philippines-forcing-evacuations.html
Storm Bopha lashed the southern
Philippine island of Mindanao, killing at least four people,
forcing thousands to evacuate and prompting Philippine Airlines
Inc. and  Cebu Air Inc. (CEB)  to cancel flights.  Two people were killed after they were hit by trees knocked
down by the cyclone, known locally as Pablo, in separate
incidents in Misamis Oriental and Siquijor provinces, Civil
Defense Chief Benito Ramos told reporters today in  Manila . A
woman was killed when a house collapsed in Davao Oriental
province while a soldier died in Compostela Valley province
after he was carried away by floodwaters, he said.  Bopha’s gusts weakened to 195 kilometers (121 miles) per
hour, according to the state weather bureau’s 5 p.m. update,
from as strong as 210 kilometers per hour earlier.  The storm “is no joke, but the government is prepared,”
President  Benigno Aquino  said in a televised speech yesterday.
More than 53,400 people in the storm’s path have been evacuated,
the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council said
on its website, while about 3,200 are stranded at sea ports
across the country after shipping services were shut down.  “We expect floods and landslides,” state weather
forecaster Fernando Cada said by phone today, adding that Bopha
may not cause the same devastation as last year’s Storm Washi,
the deadliest to hit the  Philippines  since 2008.  Flight Disruptions  The Southeast Asian nation is regularly battered by
cyclones that form over the  Pacific Ocean , causing devastation
that often prompts criticism of the government’s disaster-
response efforts.  Washi  killed more than 1,200 people, mostly in
Mindanao, in December 2011. In September 2009, Storm Ketsana
flooded Manila and parts of Luzon, killing more than 400 people.
Monsoon rains flooded half of the Manila region in August.  Philippine Airlines, Air Philippines Corp., and Cebu Air
Inc. all announced flight cancellations today. About 65 flights
were canceled, the government said.  Strong winds knocked down trees and power lines in Surigao
del Sur, leaving 90 percent of the province without power,
Governor Johnny Pimentel told local radio station DZMM.
Torrential rain and strong gusts hit Surigao del Norte,
provincial administrator Primo Plaza said in a separate
interview with DZMM.  The storm signal in Surigao province where  Nickel Asia
Corp. (NIKL) ’s Taganito mine is located, was dropped to the lowest
level with winds expected at 30 kilometers to 60 kilometers per
hour.  Storm Damage  Soldiers and police are standing by to help evacuate people
and provide medical aid, the disaster management agency said.
Bopha may cause less flooding than Washi because it wasn’t
preceded by days of heavy rain, said Cada, the state weather
forecaster.  Fatalities from Washi surpassed the combined death toll of
929 from the  Ketsana and Parma  storms in 2009, which caused more
than 38 billion pesos ($928 million) of damage to homes,
infrastructure and farm output. Typhoon Fengshen killed about
1,300 people in June 2008 and caused about 7 billion pesos of
damage to crops and irrigation. The death toll from Fengshen
included more than 900 people aboard a ship that capsized.  Total damage caused by typhoons and other natural disasters
in 2011 reached 59.2 billion pesos, Economic Planning Secretary
Arsenio Balisacan said in August. That month,  inflation 
accelerated to 3.8 percent, the fastest pace in seven months, on
supply disruptions that followed flooding caused by torrential
rains.  Inflation probably slowed to 3 percent last month,
according to the median estimate of 17 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before a report due for release at 9 a.m. tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  