-- Striking L.A. Port Clerks Cost U.S. $1 Billion a Day
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-12-04T18:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/striking-l-a-port-clerks-cost-u-s-1-billion-a-day.html
A strike hobbling the nation’s
largest port complex, affecting an estimated $1 billion of cargo
a day, has halted paychecks for thousands of  Southern California 
logistics workers before the holidays.  The walkout by clerical employees at the ports of Los
Angeles- Long Beach  has idled thousands of workers without pay,
including almost 8,000 truckers, according to Robert Curry,
president of  California  Cartage Co., one the largest freight
handlers there.  “They’re dying,” Curry said.  About 800 office employees represented by the International
Longshore and Warehouse Union went on strike in a contract
dispute Nov. 27. Other workers refused to cross picket lines.
Seven of eight Los Angeles shipping terminals are shut down,
according to Phillip Sanfield, a spokesman for the city-owned
facility. At the adjacent Port of Long Beach, three of six are
closed.  Los Angeles Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  said today that the
union and the Los Angeles/Long Beach Harbor Employers
Association, which represents terminal operators, had agreed to
use a federal mediator to help them reach consensus.  “We have met all night,” Villaraigosa said in a press
conference. “We’re still some bit apart.”  Laboring Army  About 316,000 jobs in the region, or about 1 in 20, are
tied to the harbor, according to the Port of Long Beach. Unlike
striking workers who can count on union funds for aid, many
others such as truck drivers are independent contractors who are
paid per haul, according to Jock O’Connell, an international
trade adviser with Los Angeles-based Beacon Economics.  “You have armies of people who work in these warehouses
whose paycheck is directly related to what goes on at the
port,” he said.  The two ports together are forecast to handle almost a
third of the nation’s total container-packed shipments this
year, the real-estate services firm Colliers International said
in August. About $368 billion worth of cargo passed along their
docks in 2011, according to Art Wong, a spokesman for Long
Beach. Top imports include consumer electronics, furniture and
clothing, according to the port’s website.  Chain Links  “It’s enormous in what this does to the economy,” said
Paul Bingham, an economist with CDM Smith, a consulting firm in
Arlington, Virginia. “It has repercussions right back to the
supply chain that are growing every day.”  Fifteen ships are sitting at piers waiting to be unloaded
while 11 lay at anchor offshore, according to Richard McKenna,
executive director of the San Pedro-based Marine Exchange of
Southern California, which monitors harbor traffic. Another 18
vessels have been diverted to other ports, mostly to Oakland,
California, and to  Mexico , he said.  Matthew Shay, chief executive of the Washington-based
 National Retail Federation , asked the Obama administration to
intervene, citing the effects of the strike on retailers trying
to fill their stores with last-minute holiday gifts.  “A protracted strike will ultimately result in higher
prices at the very time we can least afford it,” he said
yesterday in a statement.  The office and clerical employees have been working without
a contract for 30 months, according to the union website. More
than 50 jobs have been sent to other locations, including  Costa
Rica  and  Dallas , according to the website.  Jobs Moved  The workers, paid $41 an hour, want assurances their
positions won’t be sent elsewhere when they get sick or retire,
according to Craig Merrilees, a spokesman for the union.  Employers “have been secretly and systematically sending
dozens of positions to  Taiwan  and  Texas  and everywhere in
between,” Merrilees said.  The terminal operators want flexibility in hiring workers
only when there is something for them to do, and won’t “support
keeping artificial staffing levels if they are not needed,”
their association said Dec. 1 in a statement.  Meanwhile, the work stoppage continues to spill over to
other industries.  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the nation’s largest
railroad, no longer sends cargo to its international shipping
facility in Long Beach, according to Aaron Hunt, a spokesman.  ‘A Nightmare’  Don Simon, a manager at Coppersmith Global Logistics in El
Segundo, said the strike has left client merchandise such as
towels, tires and store displays sitting on ships. “It’s been a
nightmare for us,” he said. “It’s got to end soon.”  Charlie Woo, chief executive of toymaker Megatoys Inc.,
based in Commerce, said he expects to race to catch up on orders
when the strike ends.  “We have not gotten to the point of missing delivery dates
yet, but it will create stress,” he said.  Some companies that use the ports are unscathed, among them
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which operates the largest automotive-
processing facility at the ports. The striking union “does not
represent workers at Toyota Logistics Services in Long Beach,”
 Mike Michels , a company spokesman, said by e-mail.  “We had a ship arrive Saturday with no disruption,”
Michels said. “We are keeping an eye on the situation, but so
far, no impact.”  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , with U.S. operations based near the ports
in Torrance, California, ships cars through  San Diego  and
Richmond, in the San Francisco Bay Area, according Marcos Frommer, a company spokesman.  Honda shifted its vehicle imports away from the Los Angeles
and Long Beach ports over the past decade as the facilities are
“over-subscribed” with  container ships , Frommer said.  Labor strife will be an issue at other ports over the next
few years, K.C. Conway, an executive managing director with
Colliers, said by e-mail.  “A few can lock up a lot,” he said, “and union labor is
empowered by a perceived belief that it has an ally in the White
House.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  