-- Swiss Re Says Buffett Seeking Up to $1 Billion on Life Deal
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-12-04T15:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/swiss-re-says-buffett-seeking-up-to-1-billion-on-life-deal-1-.html
Swiss Re Ltd (SREN) , the world’s second
biggest reinsurer, said Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
is claiming as much as $1 billion in a dispute over two
contracts agreed to in 2010.  On the basis of its “perception of the performance of the
retroceded business,” or the policies it is insuring, and the
losses incurred, Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire alleged damages
of between $500 million and $1 billion, Swiss Re said in its
third-quarter  report , published Nov. 8. Swiss Re spokesman Rolf Tanner, speaking by telephone today, declined to comment beyond
what was in the report.  Swiss Re and  Berkshire Hathaway (BRK/B)  closed two years ago a so-
called coinsurance and a stop-loss agreement on its yearly
renewable term-life business before 2004. The agreements limit
Berkshire Hathaway’s exposure to $1.5 billion, according to
Swiss Re, which said the claims are “without merit.”  “If this case has merits, which we cannot judge right now,
I think this case should be significant,” said Thomas Seidl, a
London-based analyst with  Sanford Bernstein . “Swiss Re will
certainly consider any potential loss in sizing its special
dividend.”  Berkshire Loss  Berkshire said in its 2011 annual  report  it recorded a
pretax underwriting loss of $642 million for the full year with
respect to the coinsurance contract, adding that mortality rates
have exceeded the assumptions it made. Buffett didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment sent to an
assistant.  The dispute was reported yesterday in Insurance Insider.  Swiss Re  rose  0.3 percent to 66.85 Swiss francs by 3:44
p.m. in Zurich trading. The stock has  advanced  40 percent this
year.  “Failure to resolve the dispute could result in
commencement of arbitration proceedings,” Swiss Re said in last
month’s report, adding that it’s in talks with Berkshire
Hathaway. The dispute is unrelated to the quota share agreement
with Berkshire that expires this year, Tanner said.  Swiss Re may consider a special dividend to address its
excess capital, it said on Nov. 8. The company’s priority is
delivering its financial targets, paying a “sustainable”
dividend and to pursue profitable business opportunities, it
said.  The company turned to  Warren Buffett  for a 3 billion-franc
($3.24 billion) capital injection and abandoned trading credit
derivatives after reporting record writedowns and losses of $8.3
billion in 2008. It repaid the loan in 2011.  The reinsurer said last month it may give an update on the
case in its annual report due to be published on March 15. The
company will report full-year earnings on Feb. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  