-- Swiss Initial Pact on Implementing U.S. Anti-Tax-Evasion Law
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-12-04T16:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/swiss-initial-pact-on-implementing-u-s-anti-tax-evasion-law-2-.html
Switzerland and the U.S. initialed an
agreement to implement procedures for sharing American account
holders’ cross-border bank information under an anti- tax-evasion 
law scheduled to take effect next year.  “The accord guarantees that accounts held by American
taxpayers with Swiss financial firms will be declared to the
U.S. tax authorities,” the Swiss federal government said today
in an e-mailed statement.  Under the  Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act , or Fatca,
overseas banks worldwide will be required to inform the  Internal
Revenue Service  annually about the balances and activity in
their U.S. customers’ accounts. The U.S. can impose a tax on
some U.S.-related payments being sent to financial institutions
outside the country that don’t comply with the rules.  While banks in some countries will report information to
the U.S. via their own governments,  Swiss financial firms are
expected  to deliver information directly to the IRS to avoid
entering into a system of automatic exchange of information.  The agreement initialed yesterday won’t be published until
it’s signed by the two nations, Anne Cesard, a spokeswoman for
 Switzerland ’s State Secretariat for International Financial
Matters, said in a phone interview from Bern.  Social insurance, pension provision and property and
casualty insurance are exempt from the scope of Fatca, according
to the Swiss government statement.  Group Requests  The U.S. will still be allowed to submit group requests for
administrative assistance on Americans suspected of having
undeclared money in Swiss bank accounts. Group requests, which
allow U.S. authorities to obtain data without knowing client
identities, may smooth the way for Swiss banks to hand over
information without the risk of legal action.  Switzerland, the world’s biggest center for offshore
wealth, is trying to change its image as a haven for undeclared
assets following a crackdown on tax evasion by U.S. authorities.
The  U.S. Department of Justice  has been investigating at least
11 Swiss financial firms suspected of helping Americans hide
money from the IRS.  Implementing Fatca is a separate issue to the DoJ probe and
talks held yesterday in  Washington  were confidential, Cesard
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  