-- Swiss Stocks Advance as Chinese Manufacturing Increases
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-12-04T09:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/swiss-stocks-advance-as-chinese-manufacturing-increases.html
(Corrects headline and first paragraph of story originally
published on Dec. 3 to show index closed at the highest in 31
months.)  Swiss stocks  advanced to a 31-month
high as data showed manufacturing in China increased and  Greece 
said it will spend 10 billion euros ($13 billion) to buy back
bonds issued earlier this year.  Transocean Ltd. (RIGN)  rose 0.8 percent after a report that shares
may jump once it resolves claims linked to the 2010 Gulf of
Mexico oil spill.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  fell 2.4 percent after
the stock was downgraded at Bank of America Corp.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  added 0.3 percent to 6,838.70 at the
close of trading in Zurich, after earlier rising as much as 0.8
percent. The equity benchmark rose 1.6 percent last week, for a
3.4 percent gain in November amid optimism the  U.S. Congress 
will agree on a new budget. The Swiss Performance Index
increased 0.2 percent today.  “The markets are quite rightly saying the European
situation is not as disastrous as it looked six months, 12
months ago; there’s really been a transformation,” Giles Keating, head of research for private banking and asset
management at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , said on Bloomberg
Television. “Whether we look at  Europe  or indeed stocks
generally around the world, we are still in a position where the
world economy is expanding.”  China’s official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index, a gauge of the
manufacturing industry, advanced to 50.6 in November, the
highest reading in seven months, the National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
on Dec. 1. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  A separate survey by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics, which focuses on smaller businesses, also showed that
activity increased last month.  Gains Pared  European stocks pared gains after the U.S. Institute for
Supply Management reported its factory index fell to 49.5 in
November from 51.7 a month earlier. Economists in a Bloomberg
survey projected a reading of 51.4 for November, according to
the median of 83 forecasts.  “The disappointing manufacturing numbers have put a
cooling on markets that begin the week in the face of clouded
U.S. fiscal talks,” said Daniel Weston, a porfolio manager at
Aimed Capital Management LLC in Munich.  Swiss  manufacturing  output contracted in November less than
economists had projected. The procure.ch Purchasing Managers’
Index advanced to 48.5 from 46.1 in October, when adjusted for
seasonal swings, Credit Suisse Group AG said. Economists
forecast a gain to 47, the median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey showed.  Greek Bonds  Greece offered to buy back bonds as it attempts to cut a
debt load that may threaten future international aid payments.  The Mediterranean country invited holders of bonds to
tender their securities in a so-called modified Dutch auction,
the Athens-based Public Debt Management Agency said in a
statement today on its website.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  opened the possibility that
 Germany  will ultimately accept a write-off of Greek debt.  Merkel told Bild newspaper yesterday that euro-area leaders
might consider writing off debt once the country has a  budget
surplus . Germany has until now ruled out such a scenario as
violating European Union treaties.  Transocean advanced 0.8 percent to 42.76 Swiss francs,
after earlier rising as much as 3.2 percent. The world’s biggest
offshore driller may rise 30 percent or more once it resolves
claims linked to the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, Barron’s
reported over the weekend, citing estimates by sJerry Furciniti
of QCI Asset Management.  SGS SA (SGSN) , the world’s largest industrial-inspection company,
added 1.2 percent to 2,104 francs, its fifth day of gains.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  , Switzerland’s third-largest wealth
manager, advanced 0.8 percent to 32 francs.  Swiss Life, Switzerland’s largest life insurer, dropped 2.4
percent to 121 francs. Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit
downgraded the stock to underperform, the equivalent of a sell
rating, from neutral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  