-- NATO Backs Missile System for Turkey Along Syria Border
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-12-04T19:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/syrian-chemical-weapon-use-would-spark-world-reaction-nato-says.html
Foreign ministers from member
countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization approved
Turkey’s request to deploy a missile-defense system along the
border with  Syria .  Turkey asked NATO for the Patriot system, designed to
intercept aircraft or missiles, after weeks of talks about how
to shore up security on its 900-kilometer (560-mile) border with
Syria as the uprising against President Bashar al-Assad deepens.
The 21-month conflict has killed more than 41,000 people,
according to the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights .  “In response to Turkey’s request, NATO has decided to
augment Turkey’s air-defense capabilities in order to defend the
population and territory of Turkey and contribute to the de-
escalation of the crisis,” the military alliance said today in
a joint statement of its 28 members. “We welcome the intention
of  Germany , the Netherlands and the  United States  to provide
Patriot missile batteries.”  Syrian warplanes attacked targets close to the Turkish
border last week as officers from the U.S., Germany and the
Netherlands arrived to evaluate possible sites for Patriot
surface-to-air missile batteries. NATO hasn’t become directly
involved in the uprising.  Syrian Response  Syria has called the Patriot plan “provocative,” and
allies  Russia  and  Iran  have protested what they regard as a
first step toward implementing a no-fly zone or military action
against Assad’s government. Russian President  Vladimir Putin  was
in Turkey yesterday for meetings with officials including Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan .  NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen also said
Syrian use of chemical weapons would spark an international
reaction to the uprising against Assad’s rule.  His warning came a day after U.S. officials reported that
satellite images showed Syrian forces moving chemical weapons
into positions where they could be used more quickly. The
officials, speaking under condition of anonymity, also said
intelligence sources intercepted Syrian orders to prepare Sarin
nerve gas for potential use.  ‘World Watching’  “The possible use of chemical weapons would be completely
unacceptable for the whole international community,” Rasmussen
said in Brussels, according to a  transcript  posted on NATO’s
website. “If anybody resorts to these terrible weapons, I would
expect an immediate reaction from the international community.”  NATO’s warning over the possible use of chemical weapons
echoes similar remarks by the U.S.  “I want to make it absolutely clear to Assad and those
under his command: the world is watching,” President  Barack Obama  said yesterday in a speech at the National Defense
University in  Washington . “The use of chemical weapons is and
would be totally unacceptable, and if you make the tragic
mistake of using these weapons, there will be consequences and
you will be held accountable.”  Foreign ministers from NATO’s 28 members convened two days
of meetings today in Brussels. Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , an ally of Syria, also attended the meeting.  Russian Concerns  Russia is concerned that threats from Syria are being
“overstated” and that “the conflict is being increasingly
militarized,” Lavrov said. Allegations that Syria is moving
chemical weapons are based on rumors that haven’t been confirmed
in Russia’s communication with Assad’s government, he said.  “Major differences on Syria” remain with Russia, U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said today at the meeting.
“We must speak frankly about these and other differences and
redouble our efforts to advance our shared agenda in key areas
where progress is possible.”  Rasmussen called Syria’s stockpiles of chemical weapons a
“matter of great concern. We know Syria possesses missiles. We
know they have chemical weapons and, of course, they also have
to be included in our calculations, and this is also the reason
it is a matter of urgency to ensure effective defense and
protection of our ally Turkey.”  The measures are meant to bolster Turkey’s air defence and
“have nothing to do with the establishment of a no-fly zone,”
Turkey’s Foreign Ministry said in an e-mailed statement after
NATO ministers approved the plan.  “ Turkey  will continue the initiaties it has been
undertaking with a view to solve the Syrian crisis through
peaceful ways,” the ministry said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Brussels at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  