-- U.K. $2.9 Billion Climate Aid Pledge Is First for 2013
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-12-04T13:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/u-k-makes-2-9-billion-climate-aid-pledge-first-for-2013-in-g7.html
U.K. Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said
Britain will pay 1.8 billion pounds ($2.9 billion) in climate
aid next year, the first G7 nation to make such a pledge at
United Nations climate talks in Doha.  The payments will help developing nations cut emissions and
adapt to the effects of climate change. Davey may be the first
of several European ministers to make aid pledges in Doha. The
European Commission’s lead negotiator, Artur Runge-Metzger, said
last week that member states such as  Germany ,  France , the U.K.,
the Netherlands and Nordic countries will give details about
their aid plans this week.  “We do need to see more pledges,” Davey said at a press
conference in Doha today. “We can’t expect all governments to
commit all the way to 2020. We must show what’s the most
effective way to do that.”  Aid has been a sticking point at the talks, with developing
nations calling for a roadmap to ramp up assistance from
industrialized nations to an annual total of $100 billion by
2020, from an annual $10 billion pledged for the three years
through 2012, known as fast-start finance.  Developing nations say they’re unable to plan efforts to
cut greenhouse gases, or protect themselves against erratic
rainfall and rising sea levels without the certainty of greater
funding. They want to know how industrial nations intend to
honor the $100 billion pledge that they made three years ago at
a prior round of UN talks in Copenhagen.  Japan  mobilized $17.4 billion of fast-start finance, making
it the biggest donor for the three years through 2012, Japanese
envoy Masahiko Horie said today in an interview in Doha.  “We are going to continue our efforts even beyond 2013,”
Horie said. He declined to provide an amount.  The U.S., which paid out about $7.5 billion in fast-start
finance, also has yet to detail what it will pay out from next
year.  “We have every intention to continue pressing forward with
funding of that same kind of level, to the greatest extent that
we can,” Todd Stern, the senior State Department diplomat at
the talks, said at a briefing yesterday. “Obviously we need to
get money, to appropriate from Congress.”  Runge-Metzger said last week that the European Commission
is planning to deliver 300 million euros ($390 million) to 500
million euros of financing for projects next year.  Today’s U.K. aid comes from an existing 2.9-billion-pound
 fund  that’s already contributed the bulk of the U.K.’s 1.5
billion pounds of fast-start financing.  Davey also today announced some projects that Britain will
start funding, including 98 million pounds towards developing
renewable energy in  Africa , 14 million pounds for a clean energy
project in Uganda, a 21 million-pound water security effort and
15 million pounds channeled into a low-carbon agriculture plan
in Colombia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  