-- Princesses Get Equal Royal Succession Rights in U.K. Amendment
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-12-04T17:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/u-k-gets-commonwealth-consent-to-change-royal-succession-rules.html
The British government will propose
giving princesses the same rights to succeed to the throne as
their brothers, announcing the plan a day after the news that
 Prince William  and his wife Kate were expecting their first
child.  Current laws, including the 1700 Act of Settlement, give
male heirs precedence over their older sisters. The act also
excludes Roman Catholics or anyone married to a Roman Catholic
from becoming king or queen. Spurred on by the wedding of Prince William last year, Prime Minister  David Cameron  agreed the law
needed to be changed and lobbied his counterparts from the other
members of the British Commonwealth.  In what Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  described as “a
wonderful coincidence,” the process of getting agreement among
the 15 countries that share the monarch to a limited change,
which would also remove the bar on those married to Catholics,
was completed yesterday.  A Succession to the Crown Bill, which would also remove the
bar on those married to Catholics, will be introduced to
Parliament, Clegg said.  “This is a historic moment for our country and our
Monarchy,” Clegg said in an e-mailed statement.  “We can also
all celebrate that whether the baby is a boy or a girl, they
will have an equal claim to the throne.”  There have been 11 previous attempts to change the laws
governing the royal succession since 1981, all of them failing
through lack of government support.  Parliament’s Political and Constitutional Reform Committee
said last year that the plan raises questions about how other
hereditary noble titles are passed between the generations and
whether the monarch should continue to be the head of the Church
of  England .  It pointed out that a Catholic married to the monarch would
usually be expected to promise to raise their children as
Catholics, excluding them from the line of succession under
rules that Cameron isn’t proposing to change.  William and Kate’s child would be the third in line to the
throne, after Prince Charles and Prince William.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  