-- U.K. Construction Output Unexpectedly Contracts as Orders Plunge
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-12-04T09:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/u-k-construction-output-unexpectedly-contracts-as-orders-plunge.html
A U.K.  construction  index
unexpectedly showed contraction in November as orders declined
at the fastest pace for more than 3 1/2 years and confidence
dropped to its lowest level since 2008, Markit Economics said.  An index of activity decreased to 49.3, the lowest reading
since August, from 50.9 in October, Markit and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply  in London said in a statement
today. The median estimate of nine economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was 50.5. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  The U.K. economy is struggling to shake off a double-dip
recession with the  Bank of England  forecasting a “zig-zag”
pattern for gross domestic product and predicting a possible
contraction this quarter. Lower levels of construction in
November were driven by “solid reductions” in house building
and commercial activity, with the latter declining at the
fastest pace since December 2009, the report showed.  “Parallels to darker days of the economic crisis can be
seen in the construction sector, which is under pressure from
all sides,” CIPS Chief Executive Officer  David Noble  said in
the report. This confirms “the sector’s return to contraction
and the lowest levels of confidence seen since the height of the
economic crisis in 2008.”  In the building industry, data pointed to the weakest
positive sentiment since the near-record low seen in December
2008, Markit said. As a result, jobs were cut in November at the
fastest pace for almost two years, it said.  A Markit report yesterday showed that  U.K. manufacturing 
shrank less than economists forecast last month as business
conditions stabilized. The research group will probably say in a
report tomorrow that services growth accelerated in November,
according to the median estimate of an economist survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  