-- U.S. Barred From Prosecuting Off-Label Sales of Drugs
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-12-04T07:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/u-s-barred-from-prosecuting-off-label-sales-of-drugs.html
Pharmaceutical companies and their
sales staff can’t be prosecuted for promoting drugs for
“lawful,” unapproved uses, a federal appeals court said,
reversing a conviction of a salesman.  Alfred Caronia, a sales representative for Orphan Medical
Inc., was convicted in 2008 of conspiracy to introduce a
misbranded drug into commerce by promoting the narcolepsy
medication Xyrem for unapproved uses. Under the U.S. Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, doctors are allowed to prescribe
drugs for unapproved uses while drugmakers and their sales
representatives are barred from promoting such prescriptions.  Caronia appealed, contending that the conviction violated
his First Amendment right of freedom of speech. The U.S. Court
of Appeals in New York yesterday found that the government
“clearly prosecuted Caronia for his words” and reversed the
conviction.  “The government cannot prosecute pharmaceutical
manufacturers and their representatives under the FDCA for
speech promoting the lawful, off-label use of an FDA-approved
drug,” U.S. Circuit Judge Denny Chin said in a 2-1 decision.
“The proscribed conduct for which Caronia was prosecuted was
precisely his speech in aid of pharmaceutical marketing.”  Dean Boyd, a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
immediately comment.  ‘Repeatedly Prosecuted’  The U.S. has “repeatedly prosecuted” drug companies and
sales representatives for off-label promotion, the appellate
court said, citing multiple cases including one that resulted in
a $3 billion settlement by  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  earlier this
year.  The 2-1 decision by the appeals court may restrict such
prosecutions in the future, U.S. Circuit Judge Debra Ann Livingston said in her dissent. “The majority calls into
question the very foundations of our century-old system of drug
regulation,” she wrote.  That system “developed to protect consumers from
misleading and unsubstantiated claims about drugs’ safety and
efficacy, and the prohibition on off-label promotion by drug
manufacturers is essential to maintaining the effectiveness of
that system,” Livingston said.  The U.S. claimed that Caronia engaged in improper promotion
of Xyrem in 2005 while working for Orphan Medical. Orphan
Medical was acquired that year by Dublin-based  Jazz
Pharmaceuticals Plc (JAZZ) , according to the appeals court.  The case is U.S. v. Caronia, 09-5006-cr, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  