-- U.S. Bank Earnings Up 6.6% on Growth in Revenue, FDIC Says
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-12-04T18:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/u-s-bank-earnings-up-6-6-on-revenue-growth-increase-fdic-says.html
U.S. banks had net income of $37.6
billion in the third quarter, a 6.6 percent increase over the
year-earlier period as operating revenue grew the most in almost
three years, the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  said.  Industry profits are the highest in six years, with 57.5
percent of banks reporting gains on earnings that rose from
$34.4 billion in the previous quarter, the FDIC said today in
its Quarterly Banking Profile. Lenders set aside $14.8 billion
for bad loans, and the $22.3 billion in charge-offs showed
declines in all categories except residential real estate.  “In previous quarters, we have noted that revenue growth
has been very sluggish, and most of the improvement in earnings
could be traced to lower provisions for loan losses,” FDIC
Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  said in a briefing on the report. In
this latest quarter, “higher revenue contributed more to the
increase in earnings than reduced provisions,” he said.  Residential lending was up $14.5 billion amid an overall
$64.8 billion industry gain in loan balances led by $31.8
billion more in commercial and industrial loans, the FDIC said.  New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest  U.S. bank 
by assets, said its third-quarter profit grew 34 percent from a
year earlier to $5.71 billion, largely on mortgage revenue.
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. , the
second-biggest lender, said its income fell 95 percent in the
period to $340 million because of litigation expenses and an
accounting charge.  Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry  has cautioned big
banks against cutting too far on loss reserves to boost results.  Shared Concern  “We share the concern, and it’s a matter of ongoing
attention for us,” Gruenberg told reporters today.  The 10 biggest banks lowered reserves by 8.1 percent in the
third quarter and industry charge-offs again exceeded what was
set aside, according to the FDIC’s report.  “Banks had set aside a lot of money to cover loan losses
that never occurred,” American Bankers Association Chief
Economist  James Chessen  said today. “They don’t see loan losses
so great in the future that they need those large balances.”
The cuts will level off at some point, Chessen said.  Deposits increased by $181.7 billion in the third quarter,
from a $61.5 billion rise in the preceding three-month period.
Much of the deposit growth was in non-interest-bearing
transaction accounts, which are scheduled to lose unlimited FDIC
insurance protection on Dec. 31.  ‘Orderly Way’  “If the Congress allows it to expire at the end of the
year, we think the institutions are in a position to manage that
in an orderly way,” Gruenberg said.  The  American Bankers Association  and the  Independent
Community Bankers of America  sent a letter today to senior
members of the Senate Banking Committee saying they support a
two-year extension of the Transaction Account Guarantee program
and that letting it expire would “add more nervousness and
uncertainty among our business and municipal customers.”  Much of the industry’s income growth came from sales of
loans, with a gain of $3.9 billion. Trading revenue was down
38.9 percent, according to the FDIC report.  Gruenberg said the agency would like to see more income
from loans, calling the sustained increase in loan balances
“still relatively modest.” Total interest income declined 2.9
percent from the previous quarter, according to the report.  The ABA’s Chessen said the increased loan balances mark a
“really powerful” sign of improvement, especially the better
health of residential lending.  “Housing has hit a bottom,” Chessen said. “Prices are
up. Now you get some new lending taking place where you didn’t
have it before.”  Problem Banks  The number of lenders on FDIC’s confidential list of so-
called problem banks -- those deemed to be at greater risk of
collapse -- fell from 732 to 694, the smallest number since a
peak of 888 after the 2008 financial crisis. So far this year,
50 banks have failed -- trailing the 90 failures reached by the
same point in 2011.  The deposit insurance fund, which protects customer
accounts of as much as $250,000 against  bank failures , rose to
$25.2 billion from $22.7 billion in the preceding quarter, the
FDIC said. The FDIC previously increased bank assessments to
replenish the fund, which fell into deficit as the agency
resolved hundreds of bank failures stemming from the subprime
mortgage crisis.  Investors have pushed the 24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  up by
more than 21 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  