-- U.S. Senate Rejects Treaty on the Rights of the Disabled
-- B y   S t e v e   W a l s h
-- 2012-12-04T17:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/u-s-senate-rejects-treaty-on-the-rights-of-the-disabled.html
The U.S. Senate rejected ratification
of a treaty intended to grant equal access for the disabled to
employment, health care, education, physical accommodations and
legal protection under international law.  The 61-38 vote fell short of the two-thirds needed to
consent to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of
Persons with Disabilities, the first treaty of its kind. A
majority of Republicans voted against ratification.  Supporters including former Republican presidential
candidate and Majority Leader Bob Dole had tried to convince
senators that the treaty would prod other countries to meet U.S.
standards on disabled rights and wouldn’t, as some Republican
critics argued, force this country to abide by international
standards.  “This treaty is not about changing America, it is about
America changing the world,” said Senator John Kerry, a
Massachusetts Democrat and chairman of the Foreign Relations
Committee.  Dole, a World War II combat veteran who lost use of his
right arm, went to the Senate floor in a wheelchair as the
Senate concluded debate and voted on the treaty.  The Kansas Republican was accompanied by his wife,
Elizabeth Dole, a former Republican senator from North Carolina.
Long a champion of the rights of people with disabilities, Dole
is a special counsel to the law firm of Alston & Bird LLP in
 Washington .  ’International Hypocrites’  Dole’s support didn’t sway some senators who argued that
the treaty could undermine parental rights and U.S. sovereignty.  “If we were to ratify this treaty we can be sure that a
lot of international hypocrites will soon demand the United
States do this or that all the while their countries will have
been in full violation of virtually every provision of the
treaty,” said Jeff Sessions, an Alabama Republican. “This
treaty is unnecessary in fact and dangerous to our
sovereignty.”  The resolution was opposed by the advocacy groups Heritage
Action for America and the Home School Legal Defense
Association. Before the election, 36 Republicans had signed a
letter opposing any action on treaties during the lame-duck
session.  At least 119 countries have ratified or acceded to the
treaty, according to the  Congressional Research Service .  Military groups including the Veterans of Foreign Wars and
the Vietnam Veterans of America wrote in favor of the bill, said
Senator John McCain, an  Arizona  Republican who spoke in favor of
the treaty.  “That’s what this is all about, American leadership,”
said McCain, a Vietnam veteran.  The treaty, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly
in December 2006 and signed by the U.S. in June 2009, wouldn’t
add costs to the federal government or require any changes to
federal law, according to Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada
Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Walsh in Washington at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  