-- U.S., Europe Censure Israel Settlement Plans in West Bank
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-12-04T10:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/u-s-criticizes-israeli-settlement-plans-in-west-bank.html
Israeli plans to build Jewish
settlements in a sensitive area east of  Jerusalem  drew criticism
from the U.S., diplomatic protests from European nations and a
Jordanian warning that proceeding could doom peace negotiations
for another decade.  Israel ’s Nov. 30 announcement of approval for construction
of 3,000 additional homes in east Jerusalem and the  West Bank  is
“counterproductive” and will “make it harder to resume direct
negotiations to achieve a two-state solution,” White House
spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  The British and French governments lodged sharper protests,
formally summoning Israeli ambassadors to express their concerns
about the decision, which includes preliminary steps toward
building more Jewish housing in an area known as E-1 between
Jerusalem and the West Bank settlement of Maaleh Adumim.  The plan “has the potential to alter the situation on the
ground on a scale that threatens the viability of a two-state
solution,” U.K. Minister for the Middle East Alistair Burt said
yesterday in a statement.  Australian Foreign Minister Bob Carr said he was
“extremely disappointed” by the settlements decision and
called the Israeli ambassador to Canberra to express his
nation’s concerns, according to an e-mailed statement.  ‘Especially Damaging’  The U.S. and Europeans have pressed Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  for years not to proceed with the E-1 development
because it would split northern and southern areas of the West
Bank and may cut Palestinians off from east Jerusalem, which
they plan as their capital in a future peace accord with Israel.  Building in the E-1 area “would be especially damaging to
efforts to achieve a two-state solution,” State Department
spokesman Mark Toner said in a statement yesterday. Netanyahu’s
decision may lead to a renewed period of tension with U.S.
President  Barack Obama .  The Israeli action was announced less than 24 hours after
Palestinians -- over the opposition of Israel and the U.S. --
won elevation to “nonmember observer state” status in the
 United Nations General Assembly .  ‘Fundamental Violation’  Israel will continue with its settlement plans “even in
the face of international pressure and there will not be a
change in the decision,” according to a statement issued
yesterday by Netanyahu’s office. It should “not be a surprise
that Israel is not sitting idly by” in the aftermath of the UN
vote, which it called a “fundamental violation” of past
agreements, according to the statement. “Israel has built and
will continue to build in Jerusalem and any other location of
strategic interest.”  Jordanian Foreign Minister Nasser Judeh said the actions of
the Palestinians and Israelis highlight the need for Obama to
use the start of a second term to try to resume the  peace
process . “If you don’t use this opportunity now, I think the
whole peace process will be set back a decade,” he said in a
Bloomberg Government interview in  Washington .  Once Obama’s inauguration takes place on Jan. 21 and
Israeli elections are held the following day, Judeh said, “the
parties have to sit down across the table and negotiate. We have
to ensure the atmosphere is right for them to sit across the
table and see negotiations with a time line, with benchmarks. We
don’t want to see an open-ended process again.”  Building Freeze  On taking office in 2009, Obama immediately nominated a
special envoy to deal with Israeli-Palestinian talks. The little
momentum that existed evaporated in September 2010 after
Netanyahu refused to extend a 10-month building freeze on West
Bank Jewish settlements.  Palestinian Authority  President  Mahmoud Abbas  said he
wouldn’t negotiate unless Israel halted construction in the West
Bank and East Jerusalem, areas Israel captured in the 1967
Middle East war.  Aaron David Miller , a vice president at the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars, a Washington policy group,
said Netanyahu may have seen an opportunity to make the
settlement announcement without much opposition in the wake of
the UN action. Also, Obama is preoccupied with the domestic
challenge of averting the so-called fiscal cliff of automatic
spending cuts and tax increases, he said.  ‘Fortuitous Circumstances’  “The fact is, I’m not sure what can be done about this,”
Miller said. “Netanyahu took advantage of a fortuitous set of
circumstances.”  Israel’s shekel fell as much as 0.5 percent, the most since
Nov. 21, yesterday on concern about the government’s decision
and its impact on the economy. The currency strengthened 0.1
percent today to 3.8235 per dollar at 12:10 p.m. in  Tel Aviv .  Exports comprise about 40 percent of Israel’s economic
output and  Europe  is one of its largest markets. “I’m sure the
excellent economic cooperation between Israel and Europe, and
Israel and the U.S., won’t be harmed” from the settlements
flap, Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said at a
Jerusalem press briefing today.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  issued a statement on
Dec. 2 denying a report in the Haaretz newspaper that he told
U.S. officials the decision to build was primarily due to
electoral considerations by Netanyahu’s Likud party. Steinitz
called the move a “moderate step” in response to the UN vote.  Settlements Illegal  The Palestinian Authority, the UN and the U.S. consider all
Israeli settlements in the West Bank illegal.  “The settlements are illegal under international law, hurt
the confidence needed between the two sides and are an obstacle
to a peace built on two states,” the French Foreign Ministry
said in its daily e-mailed briefing.  Jordan’s Judeh said there is little benefit in debating
whether the UN action helps or hurts the peace process.  “You and I can sit there and perhaps agree or disagree on
whether it was helpful or not, but it’s done,” he said. “At
the end of the day, the establishment of the Palestinian state
will come through negotiations.”  Germany  also criticized the settlements decision, which
chief government spokesman Steffen Seibert said called into
question Israel’s readiness to negotiate. Netanyahu is scheduled
to travel tomorrow to Berlin and  Prague , where he will also
discuss Israel’s concerns over  Iran’s nuclear program .  “Tomorrow I will accompany the prime minister and foreign
minister to Germany and the  Czech Republic , where we will hold
discussions and explain and sometimes agree to disagree,”
Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon said in an interview on
 Army Radio  today. “There is absolutely no connection, and there
can’t be any connection, between this subject, the Israel-
Palestinian conflict, and the Iranian issue, which threatens the
whole world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  