-- UN Carbon Credits May Be Used in 2020 Global Market, Brazil Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-12-04T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/un-carbon-credits-may-be-used-in-2020-global-market-brazil-says.html
United Nations emission credits may
be acceptable under the so-called Durban Platform carbon market
starting about 2020, according to Luiz Alberto Figueiredo, the
lead climate envoy for  Brazil .  UN envoys at the negotiations are this week seeking to
begin work on a global carbon market that will include all
nations by the end of the decade, Figueiredo said. That process,
known as the Durban Platform, was started with a decision reached 
last year in Durban, South Africa. Countries also want to extend 
the Kyoto Protocol, whose targets for some rich nations run
through the end of this year.  “I personally have no doubt that the Clean Development
Mechanism is the unit that will prevail in the long run,”
Figueiredo said yesterday at UN-sponsored climate talks in Doha.
“It is very sound in terms of verification of emission
reductions.”  Certified Emission Reduction credits for 2013 from the CDM
plunged to a record low yesterday as December European Union
allowances reached all-time lows.  “It’s in our best interest to keep it and strengthen it,”
Figueiredo told reporters. “On the negotiations on the Durban
Platform, there’s no doubt about the fact that a market
mechanism is part of the negotiations.”  CERs for December 2013 dropped as much as 16 percent
yesterday to a record 61 euro cents ($0.80) a metric ton on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . They closed at 64 cents, 
and CERs for this month dropped as much as 11 percent
to a record 57 cents yesterday.  Emission Credit Funds  The International Emissions Trading Association, a Geneva-
based lobby group, is exploring options to help create a fund or
funds that may be willing to buy credits and support the market,
Dirk Forrister, president of the group, said Dec. 3 at the
talks.  A fund might buy the credits for a fixed period of time and
may hold them for the future or cancel them, cutting supply,
according to Richard Folland, a climate adviser for JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  Governments, companies or industries such as aviation may
invest, Folland said Dec. 3 at a seminar at the talks.  Countries and private companies will be more willing to
invest in the credits if envoys demonstrate there will be demand
for many years, Takashi Hongo, a senior fellow at the Mitsui
Global Strategic Studies Institute in  Tokyo , said Dec. 3 in an
interview in Doha. All credits should remain usable
indefinitely, which would improve investor sentiment, he said.  ‘Message to Market’  “The important thing is the message to the market,” he
said. The value of 2012 CER credits has plunged 88 percent in
the past year.  The rest of the world including airlines should boost use
of offset credits because European demand won’t be enough to
reverse record-low prices, a European Commission official said
at the talks.  UN envoys shouldn’t limit offset use to nations with
targets under the second period of Kyoto Protocol starting next
year, Jos Delbeke, director general of climate action unit of
commission, said yesterday at the talks.  Limiting access would amount to a “missed opportunity,”
he said.  “I doubt European demand will be enough to arrest the
problem,” Delbeke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  