-- Hungarian Opposition Plans Talks on Union to Oust Orban
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-12-04T12:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/hungarian-opposition-plans-talks-on-union-to-oust-orban.html
Hungary’s biggest opposition party
and an opposition umbrella group led by former Prime Minister
 Gordon Bajnai  are seeking to start negotiations on an alliance
to defeat Premier  Viktor Orban  in elections in 2014.  Bajnai’s Haza es Haladas will consider a plan to “build a
new democratic system,” the Socialist party said today in an e-
mailed statement, adding that the aim of the talks is “to name
common candidates and then a common party list that provides a
democratic alternative to oust the current regime.”  The umbrella group, Egyutt 2014, said in a separate
statement that it wants to begin talks next month, agreeing
first on “basic principles and ethical standards” before
discussing plans to “rebuild the rule of law.”  Opposition groups are seeking to join forces to roll back
Orban’s consolidation of power, which has included a new
constitution, a narrowing Constitutional Court jurisdiction and
a new media regulator led by appointees from the ruling Fidesz
party. Orban has also used his two-thirds legislative majority,
won in 2010, to redraw electoral districts and overhaul ballot
rules, curbing the opposition’s chances against Fidesz.  The party retains its lead in all polls, even after support
ebbed midway through its four-year term amid a deepening
recession and stalled talks over an international bailout.  Fidesz had 19 percent backing in November among eligible
voters, compared with 14 percent for the Socialists and 7
percent for Egyutt 2014, pollster Tarki said on its  website .
Tarki surveyed 1,000 voting-age adults between Nov. 14 and Nov.
20. It didn’t provide a margin of error.  The Socialists and Bajnai have ruled out an alliance with
Jobbik, the radical nationalist party that had 9 percent support
last month, according to the poll cited by MTI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  