-- Muni Rally Approaches Limit With 47-Year Low Yields, Fabian Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-12-04T17:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/muni-rally-approaches-limit-with-47-year-low-yields-fabian-says.html
The rally in the $3.7 trillion local-
 debt market  that has driven yields to the lowest in more than
four decades has probably run its course, said Municipal Market
Advisors’ Matt Fabian.  Since the  U.S. presidential election  Nov. 6, the yield on
benchmark 30-year munis has fallen about 0.36 percentage point
to  2.49 percent  as of noon in  New York , a record low for a
Bloomberg Valuation index that began in January 2009. The tax-
exempt debt is the  most expensive  in five years relative to
Treasuries.  “It’s possible we could continue to rally, but that idea
is becoming much less believable,” said Fabian, a managing
director at Concord, Massachusetts-based MMA. “Allocating
capital in this market looks increasingly risky.”  A Bond Buyer  index  of 20-year general obligations fell to
the lowest since 1965 last week. Munis returned 1.8 percent in
November, the biggest monthly gain since January, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Local debt has earned 9 percent this year, after returning
about 11 percent in 2011, the data show. It’s poised to be the
biggest two-year rally since 2001. Treasuries have returned 2.6
percent this year.  The rally in local debt accelerated in the past month as
investors bet lawmakers will raise taxes as part of reducing the
nation’s deficit. President  Barack Obama  wants to increase the
top federal income-tax rate to 39.6 percent from 35 percent,
increasing the appeal of tax-free debt.  “It gets exponentially harder for munis to continue to
rally as yields fall,” Fabian said. “That we have broken
through these levels is remarkable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  