-- Munich Re, Repower Agree First Offshore Wind Insurance
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-12-04T13:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/munich-re-repower-agree-first-offshore-wind-turbine-insurance.html
Munich Re  and a unit of Indian wind-
turbine maker  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  signed the first deal to insure
against “serial losses” of offshore machines as the world’s
biggest reinsurer bets on gains from growth in renewables.  Munich Re insured Repower Systems SE turbines at a farm
being built in the German  North Sea  and will pay to repair or
replace faulty machines, the insurer said today in a  statement .
The company is also developing insurance against delays when
installation vessels are held up by bad weather, it said.  “We seek to source a mid-sized three-digit million-euro
amount in premiums with renewable energies in the coming
years,” Gerd Henghuber, a Munich Re spokesman, said by phone.  European nations including  Germany  and the U.K. are leading
the push to generate electricity offshore, harnessing relatively
steady breezes in the North Sea, where waves may top 15 feet (5
meters) and winds gust at more than 90 miles (145 kilometers) an
hour. Revenue from the projects, that need investments of about
1 billion euros, may be hurt by unfavorable weather, and changes
in political support and subsidy levels available to developers.  “The mechanism allows Repower to cover potential losses of
large projects, which is particularly important for projects
using its new 6.15-megawatt turbine,” Sophia von Waldow, a
Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst, said today by e-mail. “We
expect the product to increase overall investment security and
make it easier to finance large offshore wind projects.”  The five-year cover includes retrofits carried out on units
in which defective parts have been installed, even if no loss or
damage has been sustained, according to Munich Re.  “Serial loss cover for offshore wind farms gives our
customers certainty regarding the funding of major projects, and
the insurance cover and the guarantee Munich Re provides with it
testify to the quality of our wind energy units,” Repower Chief
Financial Officer Marcus Wassenberg said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  