-- Turkey’s Garanti Bank Says More Consumer Loans Are Souring
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-12-04T15:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/turkey-s-garanti-bank-says-more-consumer-loans-are-souring-1-.html
Turkish banks’ bad consumer and
credit-card debts are surging and more scrutiny should be
applied before they give out loans, said Ergun Ozen, chief
executive officer of  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS. (GARAN)   “We have a real problem here,” Ozen said late yesterday
in an interview at an event in Istanbul. “Banks need to
exercise caution in extending credit and consumers should not
take out loans they can’t pay.” Garanti Bank is the country’s
largest lender by market value.  Souring loans at Turkish banks have been increasing as the
country’s economic growth slows, with  gross domestic product 
expanding 2.9 percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace
since 2009’s contraction. The country will end the year with 3
percent growth, according to the median estimate of 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. While  Turkey ’s unemployment
rate fell to 8.8 percent in August from 9.2 percent a year
earlier, the pace of the decline has eased in recent months.  Bad loans increased 30 percent this year through Nov. 23,
while so-called non-performing credit-card loans rose 20
percent, according to data from the country’s  banking regulator .
Total lending gained 12 percent  “It seems borrowers are refinancing credit-card debt with
lower-interest consumer loans and then defaulting on those,”
said Hakan Aygun, an analyst Ak Investment in Istanbul, the
brokerage and investment management unit of  Akbank TAS. (AKBNK)  This
explains the surge in bad consumer loans, he said.  The highest charge Turkish banks can apply to credit cards
is 28.1 percent, according to  central bank data . The weighted
average annual interest rate on  cash loans  is 15.6 percent and
11.5 percent on  commercial loans , data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Garanti rose 0.7 percent to 8.84 liras at 3:48 p.m. in
Istanbul today, after rising as much as 1.1 percent, the highest
in two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  