-- Vanguard Emerging-Market ETF Has $887 Million Redeemed
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-12-04T22:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/vanguard-emerging-market-etf-has-887-million-redeemed.html
Investors withdrew money last month
from Vanguard Group Inc.’s  emerging-markets  exchange-traded
fund, the industry’s largest, after the firm said it would
replace the fund’s index.  The $57 billion Vanguard MSCI  Emerging Markets ETF (VWO)  lost
$887 million to redemptions in November while its largest rival,
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s  $41.4 billion iShares MSCI Emerging Markets
Index ETF gathered $2.34 billion, according to data compiled by
BlackRock. Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based Vanguard, known for
its low-cost index-based products, said Oct. 2 it would drop
MSCI Inc. as the benchmark provider for 22 funds to lower costs.  “We anticipated a certain amount of leakage of assets,”
 John Woerth , a Vanguard spokesman, said today in an interview.
“However, we’re willing to sacrifice short-term cash flow to
lower costs for all of our index-fund shareholders.”  Vanguard’s emerging-markets ETF has outdrawn its main
competitor in deposits by more than 7 to 1 since the start of
2009, helping the firm gain ground on BlackRock and State Street
Corp. among U.S. ETF providers. BlackRock responded in October
by cutting fees on six ETFs, including the emerging-markets
fund, and creating four new lower-cost ETFs. Charles Schwab
Corp. and Invesco Ltd. have also reduced ETF fees this year.  Last month’s shift from Vanguard reflects institutional
investors who want to continue to track the MSCI benchmark,
Woerth said.  Vanguard’s ETF will track a benchmark provided by  FTSE
Group . The fund company, the third-largest ETF prover in the
U.S. after BlackRock and State Street, said it will start its
index changes in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  