-- Verbund Rises on Cash-Flow Prospects After EON Power-Asset Swap
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-12-04T10:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/verbund-rises-on-cash-flow-prospects-after-eon-power-asset-swap.html
Verbund AG (VER) ,  Austria ’s biggest
utility, rose to a four-week high in Vienna trading after saying
an asset swap with  Germany ’s EON SE will boost cash flow and
lower investment costs.  Verbund climbed as much as 3.1 percent to 18.175 euros, the
highest intraday price since Nov. 5, and sold for 17.895 euros
at 11:45 a.m. local time. The stock has dropped 14 percent this
year, valuing the company at 6.22 billion euros ($8.1 billion).  EON agreed to take Verbund’s 50 percent stake in Turkish
power producer Enerjisa Enerji AS in exchange for its interest
in eight hydropower plants in Germany, according to a statement
today. Verbund, which bought into Enerjisa for 326 million euros
in 2007, will focus on its businesses in Austria and Germany.  “The deal is positive for Verbund because it gives the
company positive  cash flow  in coming years rather than
additional investment costs,” said Christoph Schultes, a
Vienna-based analyst at Erste Group Bank who recommends  buying 
Verbund shares. “Their risk profile has really been reduced.”  The transaction, valued at about 1.5 billion euros, has a
300 million-euro cash element, Verbund Chief Executive Officer
Wolfgang Anzengruber told reporters in Vienna. It will result in
positive cash flow of about 400 million euros next year, the
company said in an analyst  presentation  on its website.  “It allows us to realize asset appreciation in  Turkey 
while strengthening our core market,” according to the CEO, who
said Verbund had invested about 950 million euros in its Turkish
business. The utility will narrow the scope of future
investments to focus on European hydropower, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  