-- Verizon CEO Sees Wireless Strong After Sandy Disruption
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-12-04T21:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/verizon-ceo-sees-wireless-strong-after-sandy-disruption.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, said it continues to ride the
momentum from its third-quarter performance even after
superstorm Sandy disrupted its operations.  In his first investor presentation since the storm hit the
Northeast U.S. on Oct. 29, Chief Executive Officer Lowell McAdam
offered an upbeat appraisal of the company’s wireless and
landline units. Costs related to Sandy will be outlined next
month, he said at a UBS AG conference today in  New York .  Verizon, the biggest telephone-service provider in the
Northeast, has been rebuilding since the storm, which left cable
and phone companies working to restore service to 1 million
customers in the New York area. Even so, McAdam said he feels
good about 2013 because of continued gains in wireless revenue
and subscribers and in landline profitability.  “The messages were all very positive,” said Richard Siber, a managing director at Coral Group, a private-equity
company based in  Minneapolis , who specializes in wireless
investments.  In the third quarter, Verizon  added  1.54 million net
contract customers, exceeding the 901,000 estimate of analysts
polled by Bloomberg. The wireless profit margin expanded to 50
percent from 49 percent in the second quarter, also exceeding
analysts’ expectations.  Verizon, which trails  AT&T Inc. (T)  in phone revenue,  slid  1
percent to $43.67 in New York. The shares have gained 8.8
percent this year.  Sandy Damage  Two of Verizon’s downtown Manhattan offices, including its
headquarters, were  flooded  by Sandy. McAdam said the storm has
accelerated the company’s plan to upgrade its facilities.  In areas where copper-line networks were damaged, the
company is replacing the wires with fiber-optic cable to enable
greater capacity and advanced services. McAdam declined to offer
any storm cost estimates until next month.  McAdam said he saw “incremental” improving margins in
Verizon’s slower-growing business-services unit, which offers
phone and Internet service as well as data and applications
management to corporate clients.  We need to “clean out the basement” in the division,
which still hasn’t been fully integrated since the $8.44 billion
acquisition of MCI Inc. seven years ago next month, McAdam said.  “We are still billing on MCI letterhead” to some
accounts, he said.  McAdam said he was encouraged by services Verizon has in
development to create new businesses. Redbox Instant, a video-
rental and streaming joint venture with a unit of  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) ,
is in tests with Verizon employees and will be in a “public
beta,” or limited consumer tests, starting around the end of
the first quarter or beginning of the second quarter, McAdam
said. The companies had previously said the service would start
by the end of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  