-- Verizon Must Offer Rivals Wireless Access, Court Rules
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-04T18:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/verizon-challenge-to-fcc-data-roaming-rule-rejected-by-court-1-.html
Verizon Wireless must offer smaller
competitors access to its nationwide networks for mobile
Internet use, a federal court ruled, turning aside the company’s
challenge to a U.S. regulation requiring sharing agreements.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in
 Washington  today rejected Verizon’s argument that the U.S.
Federal Communications Commission exceeded limits on its power
to regulate mobile-service providers when it approved the rule
on so-called data roaming last year.  The commission was well within its authority to make a rule
“requiring mobile-data providers to offer roaming agreements to
other such providers on ‘commercially reasonable’ terms,” U.S.
Circuit Judge David Tatel wrote in the 30-page, unanimous
opinion.  The ruling helps secure the position of smaller rivals to
Verizon and  AT&T Inc. (T) , such as MetroPCS Communications Inc. and
T-Mobile USA Inc. Those competitors, lacking a national network,
need to be able to provide mobile customers with the same
seamless access to e-mail and Internet that they offer with
voice calls outside their service areas.  Verizon already agreed in August to abide by the FCC’s
network-sharing rule for five years regardless of how the
appeals court ruled as it successfully sought the agency’s
approval to buy airwaves from cable companies.  ‘Promote Broadband’  “This unanimous decision confirms the FCC’s authority to
promote broadband competition and protect broadband consumers,”
the commission’s chairman,  Julius Genachowski , said in an e-
mailed statement. “Enacting data roaming rules is one of many
strong actions the FCC has taken in this area, and we will
continue to promote broadband investment and innovation.”  Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. mobile carrier, argued
that the rule improperly forces companies to strike commercial
deals with competitors, depriving them of discretion to decide
whether, and on what terms, to allow other providers access to
their networks.  The Basking Ridge, New Jersey-based company also contended
the agency doesn’t have power to regulate Internet-service
providers.  Ed McFadden, a Verizon spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to e-mail and phone messages seeking comment on the
decision.  Seamless Service  Before the rule, smaller providers weren’t able to secure
data-roaming agreements with Verizon and the second-largest
carrier, AT&T, the FCC said in a court filing.  Verizon Wireless is 55-percent owned by New York-based
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and 45 percent owned by Vodafone
Group Plc, based in Newbury,  England .  Verizon and AT&T were alone in opposing the data-roaming
rule as the FCC was drafting the regulation, the agency said.  AT&T isn’t a party to the lawsuit. As Verizon filed the
action last year, AT&T was seeking FCC approval to buy the
fourth-largest U.S. mobile carrier, T-Mobile USA Inc., a bid
abandoned under pressure from regulators.  Michael Balmoris, an AT&T spokesman based in Washington,
didn’t immediately reply to voice-mail and e-mail messages
seeking comment on the ruling.  Companies intervening on behalf of the FCC include
Cincinnati Bell Inc., MetroPCS, Leap Wireless International
Inc., T-Mobile and U.S. Cellular Corp, a unit of Telephone &
Data Systems Inc.  The case is Cellco Partnership v. Federal Communications
Commission, 11-1135, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 