-- Web Stocks Slip on Delisting Concerns: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-06T14:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/web-stocks-slip-on-delisting-concerns-china-overnight.html
(Corrects to include in fourth paragraph reference to
updated Wells Fargo note clarifying that it had no reason to
believe New Oriental was the subject of an SEC investigation in
story originally published Dec. 5.)  Most Chinese stocks fell in New York,
led by Internet companies, after U.S. regulators accused units
of the Big Four auditors of refusing to cooperate on a fraud
probe of China-based companies.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dipped 0.1 percent to 91.87 yesterday
as 41 companies on the gauge retreated.  New Oriental Education &
Technology Group Inc. (EDU)  tumbled the most since July as Wells Fargo
& Co. said the education services provider is at risk of being
delisted after the Securities & Exchange Commission accused the
auditors of refusing to cooperate in a fraud probe of companies
based in  China .  Sina Corp. (SINA)  and  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  tumbled to two-year
lows and Youku Tudou Inc. sank the most since September.  The SEC said Dec. 3 that Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd.,
Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP, KPMG Huazhen and
PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian CPAs Ltd. have refused to
cooperate with accounting investigations into nine companies
traded in the U.S. Wells Fargo said the probe puts New Oriental
and Ambow Education Holding Ltd., both traded in the U.S., at
risk of being delisted, according to a report by analyst Trace Urdan. The SEC hasn’t named the nine stocks it’s focused on.  In an update to the Dec. 4 report, Urdan said Wells Fargo
has no reason to believe and didn’t intend to imply that New
Oriental is the subject of a particular SEC investigation.
Urdan’s intention was to identify an “emerging risk” to
 Chinese (CH55BN)  stocks listed in the U.S.  The regulator’s allegations against the auditors “just
clearly adds risk onto those U.S.-listed Chinese stocks,” Sam Mahtani, who oversees about $5 billion as director of  emerging
markets  at F&C Asset Management Plc, said by phone from  London .
“It creates short-term uncertainty and volatility, which as an
investor you really don’t need at the moment.”  Double Volumes  The auditors claim Chinese law prevents them from assenting
to the SEC’s demands, hindering U.S. efforts to probe
allegations of fraud that have contributed to the 18 percent
slump in the China-US gauge since January 2011. Chinese law bans
the removal offshore of audit papers, while foreign regulators
aren’t allowed to work inside the nation’s borders.  BDO China Dahua Co. was also named by the SEC in the
action, according to the Dec. 3  administrative order .  New Oriental dropped 11 percent to $18.08, its steepest
one-day decline since July 18. Volumes were quadruple the daily
average over the past three months. Wells Fargo’s Urdan retained
ratings equal to buy on both New Oriental and Ambow, according
to the note.  American depositary receipts of New Oriental sank 34
percent on July 17 after the Beijing-based company said that the
SEC was investigating the consolidation of its units’ financial
statements.  New Oriental has been targeted by short seller  Carson Block 
and his research firm Muddy Waters LLC for allegedly inflating
cash balances to gain auditor approval. The company said in
September that a committee of independent company directors
found no evidence to back up Muddy Waters’ allegations. Block
countered this by saying he was “more convinced than ever”
they were misleading investors.  Block Backdown  Carly Westerman at public relations firm Brunswick Group
LLP said yesterday by e-mail in New York that she would relay
questions on whether New Oriental will delist or had further
contact with the SEC to its management in Beijing.  Block said in a Bloomberg TV interview last week that he
had lost interest in shorting Chinese stocks listed in North
America, alleging that the government in China was protecting
companies by helping them conceal public records.  Sina, owner of China’s Twitter-like Weibo service, tumbled
7.4 percent to $42.09, the lowest level since Aug. 30, 2010.
ADRs of Baidu, owner of the nation’s most-popular search engine,
slid 5.9 percent to $90.24, the least since Sept. 20, 2010.
 Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , the no. 1 online travel company,
retreated 8.1 percent to $17.93, the biggest slump since July
25. Youku Tudou, which owns the biggest video websites in China,
plunged 7.8 percent to $15.27.  ‘Less Faith’  “The result of this is that, unfortunately, there is a lot
less faith among investors in U.S.-listed Chinese companies that
have audits done by auditors based in China,” Kevin Pollack, a
managing director at Paragon Capital in New York, said by phone.
“As an investor, if a company has a China-based audit firm,
it’s a factor to take into consideration. It’s not necessarily a
red flag, but it’s an area where there could be a potential
problem.”  Ambow (AMBO) , a Beijing-based private education provider, climbed
1 cent in New York to $2.85, after falling as much as 2.8
percent earlier. Jenny Zhan, Ambow’s chief strategy officer,
said by phone from Beijing yesterday that the company’s auditor
is PWC and that it hasn’t received any SEC documents regarding
the allegations. She declined to comment on whether the company
was delisting.  Ambow said Sept. 6 that an internal probe found its
tutoring centers are legally registered. The investigation was
sparked by reports on China state television that an Ambow unit
exaggerated training results and that school registrations were
incomplete.  Junket Crackdown  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , an advertising company whose
accounting Muddy Waters’ Block has also queried, dropped 1.7
percent to $23.99 in U.S. trading. Calls and e-mails to Jing Lu,
who is responsible for Focus Media’s investor and media
relations in Beijing, weren’t immediately returned yesterday.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , a Hong Kong-based casino
operator, tumbled 7.7 percent yesterday in New York to $14.19,
the steepest one-day slide since May 14. Concern China’s
government may boost scrutiny of junket operators, which provide
credit to high stakes gamblers, sank casino stocks in Asian
trading.  Police in mainland China and Macau have detained people
from at least three of the biggest junket operators in recent
weeks, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar
with the situation. By acting as middlemen, junket operators
help drive the VIP business that accounts for about two-thirds
of casino revenues in the world’s largest gambling hub.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 0.6 percent to $37.01
in New York, the steepest gain this month. The  Bloomberg Chinese
Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks a basket of companies that
gained U.S. listings after buying firms that already trade,
slipped 0.6 percent to 74.93.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  