-- Why China and the U.S. Can Be Capitalist Comrades
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-12-04T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/why-china-and-the-u-s-can-be-capitalist-comrades.html
China ’s growth has slowed a bit this
year, but the surge in vivid predictions about the country’s
future continues to amaze observers. This observer, at any rate.  Experts foresee imminent financial collapse or an
uninterrupted rise to economic preeminence. The ruling Communist
Party will either loosen or tighten its grip. The consequences
for the U.S. and the rest of the world will be either benign or
disastrous.  Perhaps bewildered by my first visit to Beijing and
 Shanghai  in more than 10 years, not to mention the jet lag, I
find these contending inevitabilities unconvincing. Little in
life is certain, and that probably goes double for China.  Nobody could have predicted the country’s economic
performance since  Deng Xiaoping  began his economic reforms in
1979: 30 years of growth at 10 percent a year. In the past 10
years alone, gross domestic product per person has increased
 two-and-a-half times , in inflation-adjusted terms. Consumption
has grown more slowly than output, admittedly, because
investment has increased its share of the total, but still. It’s
astonishing, and it most likely understates the pace of economic
progress in places like Beijing and Shanghai.  Knowing the numbers and understanding that these new world
cities aren’t representative of the whole country doesn’t
prepare you for their vibrancy and prosperity. And what I
recalled from my previous visits didn’t prepare me for the
eagerness to engage and the openness of the businesspeople and
scholars I’ve been meeting.  Optimistic Outlook  The same questions preoccupy Chinese and American thinkers
alike: How long, if at all, can growth at anything like this
rate continue, and, if it does, will it drive China and the U.S.
toward confrontation? With all due timidity, and despite some
dangers in the economic outlook, I lean to optimism on the
economic question. I will go into the reasons next week. On the
geopolitics, for reasons I will go into now, I lean to optimism
as well.  In judging the likelihood that China and the U.S. will come
to blows, it’s important to remember that they now share a
common religion: capitalism.  A great deal is made of the supposedly fundamental
differences between China’s economic model and the one that
prevails in the West. It flatters everybody to think in these
terms. You can’t have the superior model if everybody’s model is
essentially the same.  China talks about “socialism with Chinese characteristics,”
Western analysts about “state capitalism.” Market-based
economies do come in different versions, of course. American
capitalism is different from French capitalism, which is
different from South Korean capitalism, which is different from
Singaporean capitalism, the version that first  impressed  Deng.
But they are family. China is another sibling. You just have to
discount the age difference.  Various branches of government still play a big role in the
Chinese economy, to be sure. State-owned enterprises still
account for between 25 and 30 percent of industrial output, down
from more than 80 percent in the late 1970s. Some of these SOEs
are huge and celebrated as national champions, an idea not
unheard of in  Europe . But they continue to dwindle in aggregate,
and they are increasingly exposed in varying degrees to market
forces.  This isn’t a blend of socialism and communism kitted out
with optional extras. It isn’t market-Leninism. Thirty years on,
China is a capitalist country.  Therefore, the contest between China and the U.S., if it
happens, won’t be about which of two bitterly opposed ideologies
survives. Both might wish to deny it, but they find themselves
on the same side in that particular struggle.  Greater Transparency  In the political as opposed to economic realm, of course,
that isn’t true. Chinese politics is no longer totalitarian, but
it’s authoritarian. Dissent of certain kinds is repressed,
though critics who respect the bounds get a hearing. The Chinese
want greater transparency, accountability and a crackdown on
corruption, but they aren’t clamoring for the vote. America’s
contempt for this system, and China’s resentment of U.S.
contempt, give them something to fight over if they choose to.  In matters of war and peace, interests usually matter more
than values. China is acutely sensitive to the risks posed by
its extended land borders. It sees its modern history, with good
reason, as a series of depredations by hostile neighbors. As it
gets richer it will do what most rising powers have done --
attend to its security by increasing its military capabilities.
The U.S. understands this and sees its own interests at risk.  It’s already happening. China’s gathering strength and
recent new assertiveness in foreign policy are stirring concern
in the region and beyond. When the Obama administration
announced its “pivot to  Asia ,” it was affirming its commitment
to the prevailing regional order, the rise of China
notwithstanding.  The danger is plain, especially because the U.S. has
sensitivities of its own. Even as its economy resumes a healthy
rate of expansion, America will have to cope with relative
decline. The U.S. will grow, but China will grow faster. By mere
weight of population its economy will soon be bigger -- and
eventually, much bigger. Nothing in America’s history has
prepared it for this. Take it from a Brit: It may take some
getting used to.  Yet the great capitalist convergence, if it continues, will
in crucial respects push the other way and promote peace. Cross-
border capitalism -- globalization, if you prefer -- creates
mutual dependence. Countries bound together by flows of goods,
services, capital and people, as China and the U.S. increasingly
are, gradually come to see that they succeed or fail together.  The dangerous fallacy that trade is a zero-sum game is
tenacious, but as economic interdependence increases, the mutual
benefits become more obvious. Also, with rising prosperity,
people have more to lose. Fear of conflict -- not war by remote-
control, but one that would put everything at risk -- will
surely rise.  Interaction at every level should be the order of the day.
Familiarity will breed friendship, I’m convinced, as Chinese and
U.S. attitudes are often comically similar. Prickliness over
sovereignty and an exaggerated belief in national exceptionalism
are the most salient examples. Neither country willingly cedes
control to outsiders. Neither can abide being bossed around.
Both are entirely convinced of the rightness of their ideas.  If America wants to understand China, it could start by
better understanding itself -- and vice versa. Then, if China
can moderate its sense of grievance over past injuries, and the
U.S. can curb its desire to tell everybody else how to live, a
genuine partnership between the two superpowers is achievable.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 