-- World’s Richest Man Faces Clampdown in Latin America
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-12-04T21:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-04/world-s-richest-man-faces-clampdown-in-latin-america.html
Carlos Slim, the world’s richest
person, is confronting a mounting backlash from the same Latin
American countries that made him wealthy as authorities rein in
his expanding mobile-phone empire.  A wave of telecommunications regulation has swept  Latin
America  in the past four months, and  Mexico ’s new president
pledged last week to stimulate competition against Slim. In
 Brazil , institutions that monitor the phone industry are also
gaining teeth, while populist politicians in countries such as
 Argentina  and  Colombia  are spurring rule changes.  The result has been a series of rulings and orders that
have  cut  into profitability at  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , Slim’s biggest
company and the most widely used wireless carrier in the Western
Hemisphere. Slim, 72, has personally fought back against the
trend, saying it will hurt his ability to invest in new
technology -- an argument that’s holding less sway with
government officials in light of his company controlling more
than a third of the market.  “We’ve barely had any regulation in this sector in this
region for the past 10 years,” said Richard Dineen, an analyst
at HSBC Securities Inc. in  New York . “There’s probably only one
way for it to go, and it’s going to get tougher.”  Sliding Shares  America Movil, which  operates  in 18 countries across Latin
America, the U.S. and the Caribbean, has seen its stock slump 16
percent since July 23, when Brazil’s government barred the
company from selling new wireless plans in some states,
signifying it was taking a more aggressive regulatory approach.
The  MSCI Emerging Markets Latin America Index (MXLA)  has gained 2.9
percent over that time span, and the Mexican benchmark IPC index
has risen 3.4 percent.  Shares of America Movil slid 0.8 percent to 15.12 pesos at
the close today in Mexico City.  In his inauguration speech on Dec. 1, Mexican President
Enrique Pena Nieto said there should be more competition in the
nation’s telephone industry, where America Movil has 80 percent
of landlines and 70 percent of mobile-phone subscriptions.  The following day, Mexico’s three major political parties
signed a  pact  to introduce legislation next year to strengthen
antitrust and telecommunications regulators and to regulate the
dominant carrier’s network and prices “according to
international best practices.” The parties also agreed to
auction airwaves in the 700-megahertz band to a wholesaler that
could resell capacity to create more competition in wireless
services.  “For telecoms, the new regulation should result in a
decrease in margins in most of the services, with mobile and
broadband being the most affected,” Andres Medina-Mora and Jose Pablo Vallejo, analysts with Corporativo GBM SAB in Mexico City,
said today in a research note. They cut their price target for
America Movil to 19.59 pesos a share from 21.21 pesos.  Unfair Target  Some of the new regulatory moves in Latin America unfairly
target America Movil, said  Carlos Slim  Domit, the billionaire’s
eldest son and co-chairman of the company.  “We need regulations that stimulate investment, that
promote coverage, that promote competition in all services,”
Slim Domit said in an interview before the inauguration. “We
don’t need regulations that just penalize companies for their
size.”  The wireless carrier, based in Mexico City, represents
about 53 percent of Slim’s $73 billion net worth, according to
the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . The new regulatory fervor in
Latin America has also squeezed margins for Madrid-based
Telefonica SA, the region’s second-largest carrier, and  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT) , the third-biggest.  Outspending Rivals  America Movil is outspending competitors on investments
that will provide faster Internet speeds and better coverage,
Slim Domit said in the interview. The company has been spending
about $10 billion a year on network infrastructure improvements.
In contrast, Madrid-based  Telefonica (TEF)  spent 5.3 billion euros
($6.9 billion) last year in Latin America, including wireless
airwave purchases.  America Movil holds about 38.6 percent of wireless
subscribers in Latin America and the Caribbean, according to
Signals Telecom Consulting. In addition to its Mexican
dominance, the company has 70 percent of the market in  Ecuador ,
61 percent in Colombia, 25 percent in Brazil and about a third
of Argentina.  Sales Ban  Anatel, the phone regulatory agency established by Brazil
in 1997, followed its eight-day sales ban with a plan to more
quickly cut the fees that mobile-phone companies can charge to
connect calls from competitors. Mexico’s Federal
Telecommunications Commission, which more than halved the
connection rates last year, will review in January whether to
get rid of the fees altogether.  The 16-year-old Mexican agency, known as Cofetel, has won
rulings by the nation’s  Supreme Court  this year. That’s helped
confirm that it has the power to regulate the industry,
solidifying its authority after years of court battles.  The regulatory actions in Mexico and Brazil, which together
make up 65 percent of  America Movil ’s revenue, have  compressed 
profitability for Slim’s company. In Brazil, the carrier’s
profit margin through the first three quarters of this year was
24.6 percent, down from 26.2 percent in 2011. The figure in
Mexico fell to 45.6 percent from 48.6 percent.  More Minutes  Regulations and mounting competition are forcing the
company to provide more service for less money. In Mexico last
quarter, the average America Movil wireless customer’s monthly
minutes of use shot up 22 percent from a year earlier, while the
average bill only rose 10 percent. In Brazil, monthly bills fell
16 percent, even as minutes of use rose 14 percent.  Even as margins shrink, a stronger peso in Mexico will
probably contribute to a 29 percent boost in net income this
year, according to  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Leaving out the effect of currency changes, interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, analysts predict that profit will
rise just 7 percent this year, followed by a 5 percent gain in
2013 and 4 percent in 2014.  Slim’s biggest rivals aren’t faring better. Telefonica’s
Latin American profit margin in this year’s first nine months
has  shrunk  to 35 percent from 36.3 percent a year ago. Telecom
Italia’s slipped to 26.1 percent from 26.7 percent in Brazil and
to 29.4 percent from 32.7 percent in Argentina.  The tightening grip of regulators extends to smaller
countries. In September, El Salvadoran antitrust officials
refused to let America Movil acquire a smaller competitor unless
it gave up valuable licenses for mobile-phone airwaves, a deal
Slim’s company was unwilling to accept.  More Extreme  Other countries are taking more extreme measures to promote
competition. In September, Argentina canceled an auction of
mobile-phone spectrum licenses, instead handing them over to a
government-run company that will compete directly with America
Movil and local units of Telefonica and Telecom Italia.  In Colombia, the government announced plans last month to
partially exclude America Movil from an airwaves auction, only
allowing it to bid for spectrum that, because of its
characteristics, requires more spending to build a functional
wireless network. Colombian lawmakers also have proposed a
market-share cap of 30 percent for mobile-phone companies, which
would require America Movil to shed operations accounting for
about half of its revenue there.  “In some countries, the decisions have been pure
populism,” said  Jose Otero , an analyst at Signals Telecom
Consulting in Montevideo, Uruguay. “In these cases, the
consumer is the one who is affected.”  Slower Upgrades  Regulations that withhold airwaves from the largest mobile-
phone carriers deny those companies the capacity they need to
upgrade their networks, Otero said. That means longer waits for
new technology such as fourth-generation service, he said.  Slim himself objected to the Colombian proposals, holding a
news conference in the country on Oct. 26 to pledge $1 billion
in network investments if America Movil is able to bid in the
auction.  “What those types of initiatives do is penalize the ones
that are providing services and investing in the most marginal
communities,” said Slim Domit, the billionaire’s son. “By
seeking to detain investment, they leave many people out of
service simply because of a regulation that’s not based on the
facts.”  While regulators are seeking to push prices lower for
consumers, their rules still have to provide incentives for
companies to invest with the expectation of profitable returns,
said HSBC’s Dineen. Bringing technologies such as 4G networks to
consumers will require more network spending, he said.  Colombia is being mindful of that balance by allowing
America Movil, which operates under the Claro brand, to
participate in bidding for some airwaves, said  Information
Technology  and Communications Minister Diego Molano.  “Since Claro has a dominant position, we have to
regulate,” he said. “But we have to keep promoting investment
in the country, and with the scenario we’re proposing, we think
we’ll meet those objectives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  