-- Abound’s CEO Won’t Appear May 16 for Issa’s Loan Hearing
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-05-10T17:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/abound-s-chief-snubs-issa-s-panel-probing-loan-programs.html
Abound Solar Inc.’s chief executive
officer declined to testify before a House panel investigating
the U.S. clean-energy program that backed the company as well as
failed Solyndra LLC, the committee chairman said in a letter.  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican and
chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
wrote Abound’s lawyer on May 9, urging Chief Executive Officer
Craig Witsoe to reconsider or agree to be interviewed by
congressional staff.  Abound, which fired 180 people in February after getting a
$400 million U.S. loan guarantee, is among companies asked to
testify at a May 16 hearing. The solar-energy projects have been
criticized by Republicans, who say funding by the  Department of
Energy  represents broader failures of President  Barack Obama ’s
2009 economic stimulus program that financed the guarantees.  “The risks to taxpayer funds associated with these outlays
are significant,” Issa wrote to Frank Swain, an attorney for
Abound at Faegre Baker Daniels LLP. “Serious questions remain
about DOE’s decision to grant Abound hundreds of millions of
dollars in loan guarantees.”  Steve Abely, an Abound spokesman, said the Loveland,
Colorado-based company was “cooperating fully” and hadn’t
“refused any discussions.”  ‘Working Out Timing’  “Craig is prepared to meet with the committee, and we are
currently working out the timing,” Abely said in an e-mail.  The company has drawn down about $70 million of the loan,
the Energy Department said.  Abound cited two reasons for not wanting to participate in
the May hearing, according to Issa’s letter. It wanted to avoid
jeopardizing ongoing negotiations with the Energy Department,
and executives had a series of meetings with current and
potential investors in the company in mid-May.  Executives from  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) ,  BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE) 
and  Nevada Geothermal Power Inc. (NGP)  have agreed to testify, Becca
Watkins, a committee spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Republicans released in March a  report  by Issa’s staff they
said showed mismanagement of the loan program extended beyond
Solyndra, which filed for  bankruptcy protection  in September
after it won a $535 million loan guarantee.  Abound shut production as solar-panel  prices  plummeted. The
company said in February that it plans to refit its
manufacturing lines to produce more efficient products.  ‘Compulsory Process’  The committee may use a “compulsory process” to elicit
testimony from Witsoe, Watkins said.  Issa’s letter noted that Fitch Ratings Ltd. had indicated
investing in Abound would be “highly speculative.”  Abound won bipartisan support in Congress. Members of the
 Indiana  delegation, including Senator  Richard Lugar , defeated in
a Republican primary this week, and Republican Representative
Dan Burton, wrote Energy Secretary Steven Chu in October 2009
expressing “strong support” for Abound’s loan guarantee
application.  Abound planned to build a manufacturing plant in Indiana.  The potential long-term loss on 30 U.S.-backed clean-energy
and auto loans might be $2.7 billion, or about $200 million less
than the Energy Department’s estimate,  Herbert Allison , a former
Treasury Department official, found in a review, which was
conducted in response to pressure from Republicans.  Allison rated projects such as Solyndra and Abound to be
higher risk than others in the overall Energy Department loan
portfolio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  