-- Aegon Posts 59% Gain in Quarterly Profit, Beating Estimates
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-05-10T09:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/aegon-posts-59-gain-in-quarterly-profit-beating-estimates-1-.html
Aegon NV (AGN) , the Dutch owner of U.S.
insurer Transamerica Corp., said first-quarter profit increased
59 percent, helped by cost reductions and gains on investments.  Aegon  rose  as much as 7.3 percent in Amsterdam trading
after saying net income climbed to 521 million euros ($675
million), topping the average estimate of 269 million euros in a
Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts. The company booked a 156
million-euro gain from fair-value gains on certain holdings.  “Aegon reported a strong first-quarter result,” said
Lemer Salah, an Amsterdam-based analyst at SNS Securities who
has a buy recommendation on the shares. “The company was able
to improve its growth profile in particular in its core
markets.”  Chief Executive Officer Alex Wynaendts has been cutting
costs in its U.S., U.K. and Dutch operations, offering products
that are less sensitive to market volatility and adjusting
prices to reflect lower  interest rates  as he seeks to increase
underlying pretax profit by 7 percent to 10 percent a year on
average until 2015 and post a return on equity of 10 percent to
12 percent. Profit by that measure, which excludes investment
swings, rose 3 percent to 425 million euros, compared with the
418 million-euro estimate of 10 analysts.  Shares Rise  Aegon shares  gained  23 cents to 3.54 euros by 10:49 a.m.
Amsterdam time, giving the company a market value of 6.8 billion
euros. The stock is up 14 percent this year, compared with a 5
percent gain in the 28-company Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance
Index in 2012.  “Following a year of considerable transformation, Aegon’s
businesses made a strong start in the first quarter of 2012 with
solid increases in sales and earnings,” Wynaendts said in a
statement today. “Our successful efforts to reduce costs across
our organization have created greater focus while also
contributing to higher earnings.”  Alternative assets in the U.S., a guarantee portfolio in
the Netherlands and derivatives led to a “fair value” gain of
156 million euros, versus an 86 million-euro markdown a year
earlier. Impairment charges fell 34 percent to 41 million euros,
the lowest level in four years, the company said.  Sales rose 25 percent to 1.76 billion euros. Gross deposits
increased 50 percent to 11 billion euros as the company added
pension assets in the U.S. and new asset management mandates.  ‘Strong Recovery’  Aegon last year cut costs in its U.K. operations by 25
percent from 2009 levels. That helped increase the unit’s
underlying earnings before tax to 29 million euros from 12
million euros in the year-earlier period.  Underlying pretax earnings in the Americas, dominated by
the U.S. business, fell 13 percent to 292 million euros as
income from fixed annuities declined and amid higher mortality
claims.  “We expect Aegon to show a strong recovery in earnings
over the next three years as a result of cost savings, and a
shift in business mix,” Michael van Wegen, a London-based
analyst at Bank of America Corp., said in a note today. The
shares are “attractively valued,” at a 15 percent discount to
the industry, he said.  Aegon got 35 percent of underlying earnings from fee
products in the quarter. Spread-based products such as fixed
annuities generally offer clients a guaranteed return and rely
on interest rates, while fee businesses such as term life and
health products are a more stable source of income.  U.S. Bond Yields  Shares of the insurer, which gets most of its earnings from
the U.S., were boosted in the first quarter as the U.S. 10-year
bond yield rose to as much as 2.38 percent. Aegon’s profit goals
rely on assumptions including a 4.75 percent U.S. 10-year bond
yield for 2016.  Yields fell below 1.8 percent yesterday as concern
increased that  Europe ’s financial turmoil is worsening. Insurers
suffer from lower long-term interest rates as they hold back
returns from bond investments and increase future liabilities.  The insurer sees no reason to change its assumption after
cutting it from 5.25 percent in November, Chief Financial
Officer Jan Nooitgedagt told analysts today.  Amid persisting market volatility, “I feel quite confident
with our strong position and also with the measures we have
taken,” he told reporters earlier. “We have been successful in
executing our strategy as the results of this quarter show.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  