-- Maker’s Mark, PTO Search, Phony Wine: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-05-10T11:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/maker-s-mark-pto-names-kirkland-ellis-intellectual-property.html
The litigation lasted longer than the
bourbon-aging process. Yesterday, more than nine years after the
case was originally filed, a federal appellate court found that
the signature red wax seal used on Maker’s Mark Distillery
Inc.’s bourbon bottles is a valid trademark.  The Kentucky distillery, owned by Deerfield, Illinois-based
 Beam Inc., (BEAM)  originally sued  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
liquor maker, in 2003, claiming Diageo’s  Jose Cuervo  infringed
its trademark by using a red wax seal on bottles of tequila.  Diageo claimed that the trademark was unenforceable since
it had “aesthetic functionality.” Marks that are deemed
functional can’t be trademarked under federal law. A three-judge
panel for the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Cincinnati, however,
affirmed the lower court’s ruling that the red seal wasn’t
functional and was, as a result, a valid mark.  The lower court hadn’t awarded damages because it found
Cuervo’s use of a red seal didn’t dilute the bourbon trademark.  “My grandmother dipped the first bottle of Maker’s Mark in
red wax, and it’s been our signature trademark ever since,” Rob Samuels, chief operating officer of Maker’s Mark and whose
family founded the distillery, said in a statement.  Diageo said in a statement that it was disappointed by the
appeals court ruling. “However, the decision will have no
practical effect on either Diageo’s or Tequila Cuervo’s business
going forward, since neither has sold Cuervo products with
dripping red wax seals since 2004,” according to the statement.  Michael Aschen of  New York ’s Abelman, Frayne & Schwab, and
J. Kevin Fee of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP represented London-
based Diageo. Edward Colbert of the Washington office of Kenyon
& Kenyon represented Maker’s Mark.  The case is Maker’s Mark Distillery Inc. v. Diageo North
America Inc., 10-5508, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit (Cincinnati).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Accused Seller of Fake Burgundy Wine Indicted by Grand Jury  Rudy Kurniawan, the California man arrested in March for
allegedly selling more than $1.3 million in phony wine, was
indicted by a grand jury in New York.  Kurniawan is charged with mail and wire fraud related to a
scheme to sell counterfeit wine, according to a filing in
federal court in  Manhattan .  The 35-year-old Indonesian national had “thousands of
printed wine labels to many of the most expensive wines in the
world, such as Domaine de la Romanee-Conti and  Chateau Petrus ,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Jason Hernandez told a federal judge in
March while describing a search of Kurniawan’s home by  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation agents.  Kurniawan, who was arrested March 8 and accused of
consigning at least 84 counterfeit bottles of Burgundy to a New
York auction house, was ordered to remain in jail after
Hernandez warned that he might flee if released on bail.  Luis Li, a Los Angeles lawyer who represented Kurniawan at
the March 9 hearing, didn’t immediately return a call to his
office for comment on the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Kurniawan, 12-606, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Patent  PTO Seeks Nominations for 5 Members for Public Advisory Groups  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Director David J. Kappos
requested nominations for three members to join the Patent
Public Advisory Committee and two new members for the Trademark
Public Advisory Committee, according to a notice published May 4
in the Federal Register.  “Our Public Advisory Committees help us work in concert
with our stakeholder community to launch transformative
initiatives to improve the way Americans innovate,” Kappos said
in a statement. “Committee input is critical to our continuing
efforts to support American innovation, create U.S. jobs and
make U.S. businesses more competitive in the global economy.”  Each committee comprises nine voting members appointed by
the Secretary of Commerce. Committee members serve for three
years and their duties include reviewing and advising the
director and preparing an annual report on patent and trademark
matters.  For more patent news, click here.  Free Speech  New York Policeman Asks to Add Free-Speech Claim to Lawsuit  A New York police officer who claims he was locked in a
psychiatric ward after documenting corruption in the department
told a judge he wants to amend his $50 million lawsuit against
the city to add a claim that his free-speech rights were
violated.  A lawyer for Adrian Schoolcraft asked U.S. District Judge
Robert Sweet yesterday for permission to change his client’s
complaint to include a claim the city violated his right to make
public reports that officers were told to falsify crime and
arrest statistics.  Schoolcraft, who sued the city in August 2010, said police
officials illegally tried to intimidate him and retaliate after
he revealed an alleged policy requiring officers to boost
arrests, falsify reports and suborn perjury to manipulate crime
statistics.  William Fraenkel, a lawyer for the city, told Sweet that
reporting misconduct is part of a police officer’s job, and
therefore isn’t covered by the First Amendment.  Sweet didn’t say when he will rule on Schoolcraft’s
request.  New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg
News.  The case is Schoolcraft v. City of New York, 10-06005, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Settlements  ‘Leprechaun’ Producer Agrees to Settle SEC Insider-Trading Case  A Hollywood movie producer and five others will pay almost
$2 million to settle U.S. regulatory claims that they profited
by trading shares of a company using inside information he
obtained while serving as a board member.  Mohammed Mark Amin, his brother, cousin and three other
friends and business partners made more than $618,000 on shares
of  DuPont Fabros Technology Inc. (DFT)  after he learned that the firm
was negotiating loans related to expanding business, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said May 8 in a statement.  Amin, who is credited as a producer for more than 75 films
including “Frida,” “Eve’s Bayou” and four “Leprechaun”
movies, learned of the loans while serving on the DuPont Fabros
board in 2008, the SEC said.  “Mark Amin disregarded his board responsibilities and
betrayed shareholders at DuPont Fabros in favor of giving his
circle of relatives and friends an inside scoop,” John McCoy,
associate director of the SEC’s Los Angeles office, said in a
statement.  A phone call to Carl Moor, an attorney for Amin, wasn’t
immediately returned.  IP Moves  Kirkland & Ellis Adds Four IP Lawyers in New York Office  Four lawyers at Kaye Scholer LLP left the firm to join the
New York office of  Kirkland & Ellis  LLP.  Leora Ben-Ami, Thomas Fleming, Patricia Carson and
Christopher Jagoe are now partners in Kirkland’s  intellectual
property  practice group.  Ben-Ami focuses on patent litigation and has represented
drug and biotechnology firms such as Pfizer Inc., Genentech Inc.
and DuPont Co., according to Kirkland’s statement.  Fleming specializes in IP litigation and has tried cases in
the areas of biotechnology, pharmaceuticals and chemical
products, as well as wireless technology and telecommunications.  Carson focuses on patent litigation and patent counseling
matters, including IP due diligence and licensing in fields such
as pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, chemicals, medical devices
and consumer health care.  Jagoe focuses on patent litigation related to chemical,
pharmaceutical and biotechnology matters. He has represented
clients such as  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ,  Ariad Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARIA) ,
Pioneer Hi-Bred International Inc. and DuPont.  Nixon Peabody Adds Life Sciences Lawyer in Los Angeles  Seth D. Levy, who had been chairman of the life sciences
practice in the  Los Angeles  office of Davis Wright Tremaine LLP,
joined the Los Angeles office of Nixon Peabody LLP.  Associates Linda Huber, Sean Senn and B. Thomas Duke;
patent agents Stephen Chen and Hema Vakharia-Rao; and patent
scientist BinQuan Zhuang are joining Nixon Peabody as well.  Levy focuses on managing patent procurement in technical
fields including biotechnology and life sciences. He represents
academic institutions and emerging companies, the firm said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  