-- Alaska Whaler Wins $150,000 Goldman Prize for Oil Fight
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/alaska-whaler-wins-150-000-goldman-prize-for-oil-fight.html
The Cafe du Parc at the  Willard
InterContinental  Hotel in  Washington  is bustling with D.C.
tourists and buttoned-down business travelers.  I’m with a different kind of guest. Caroline Cannon, an
Inupiat from Point Hope, Alaska, population 700, is this year’s
North American  Goldman Prize  winner. The 55-year-old grandmother
of 26 won the environmental award for her part in a campaign to
stop the oil-drilling rush in the Arctic.  Wearing bracelets made of whale teeth and ivory, she
describes the subsistence living her people eke out in the
Chukchi Sea, their reliance on the bowhead whale, walrus and
bearded seal for food, clothing and jewelry.  It’s a fascinating life for someone like me who relies on
the subway, keyboard and smartphone. Still, what does she tell
people who say: We need the oil?  “We didn’t create this problem, it’s the consumers,”
Cannon says, noting the contrast between the images on my laptop
of her remote Alaskan village and the Cafe du Parc clientele,
the Pennsylvania Avenue traffic outside. “These are two
different worlds.”  Cannon has been the face and voice of her Inupiat community
in hundreds of government and industry meetings, making the case
for her people and their connection to the  Chukchi Sea .  “I know there’s a need, but please, don’t be practicing it
in my backyard,” she says. “We have to be careful how we do
it. I don’t want my great-grandchildren to read about my culture
in a library.”  Drilling Stopped  She and a coalition of environmental groups managed to stop
the drilling in a number of proposed gas and oil leases in 2009,
when a federal court ruled that the impact on the marine
environment had not been adequately studied.  “I was flooded with tears,” says Cannon, remembering that
victory.  Unfortunately the push to drill is strong, and backed by
enormous stakes. When  Shell Oil  purchased leasing rights in the
Chukchi for $2.1 billion in 2008, Executive Vice President David Lawrence declared that  Alaska  has “the potential to become a
new heartland for Shell.”  The Department of the Interior estimates that there are
26.6 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 130 trillion cubic
feet of natural gas under the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas. This
year, the federal government has approved Shell’s spill-response
plans, clearing a major hurdle for the company to begin
exploratory wells in the summer.  “Apparently Shell has convinced them that there is a
technology to clean an oil spill in the Arctic, but they’ve
never proven that fact,” Cannon says. “They have not tested,
and I wouldn’t want it to be tested in my backyard.  When I say
‘my,’ I’m referring to my grandkids, the 26 grandkids that I
have.”  On Thin Ice  Oil spills are a potential threat, but  climate change  is
already affecting the Inupiat hunting grounds.  “We see it. Two years ago we weren’t able to pitch our
tent out there (on thin ice), and safety was an issue. I’m
hearing that we are able this season and I’m anxious to go
back,” says Cannon. “It’s so meaningful and so precious when
you’re out there.”  Environmentalists might question supporting a cause that
centers on killing endangered whales, but times have changed.  “I guess back in the day when my parents were alive, 20 or
30 years ago, if they heard about the environmental groups, they
had a different version. They said we were slaughtering them,
and that they considered the bowhead whale to be an endangered
species,” she says, adding that it was commercial whalers from
 Boston  and  San Francisco  that decimated the whale population,
not Eskimos hunting from boats made of sealskin.  ‘We Don’t Waste’  “We’ve only ever taken what we are expected to survive on,
and we do it with respect. We only take what’s given to us, and
we don’t waste it.”  Recipients of the Goldman Prize are awarded $150,000,
which, in Cannon’s case, will end up back in the community.  “My tribe, my native village in Point Hope is in financial
need right now,” she says. “I’ve always wanted to build a soup
kitchen in our community, and that would be with my church. I
want to help my community whichever way I can help them.”  She is weary of the media attention she has endured in
recent weeks, so I ask her just one more question: What next for
Caroline Cannon?  “I’m going to go home and go whaling, because that’s who I
am.”  (Mike Di Paola writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on stage and  Jason
Harper  on cars.  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 