-- Malaysian Palm-Oil Stockpiles Drop to One-Year Low in April
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-05-10T08:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/malaysian-palm-oil-stockpiles-drop-to-one-year-low-in-april-1-.html
Palm-oil stockpiles in  Malaysia , the
second-largest supplier after  Indonesia , slumped to the lowest
level in a year in April as production continued to drop from a
year ago and exports were flat.  Inventories tumbled 5.4 percent to 1.85 million metric tons
from a revised 1.95 million tons in March, the Malaysian Palm
Oil Board said in a statement today. That was less than the 1.92
million tons predicted in a Bloomberg survey last week. Output
increased 5.1 percent to 1.27 million tons from 1.21 million
tons in March. This was 17 percent less than 1.53 million tons a
year earlier. Exports were little changed, up 0.14 percent to
1.33 million tons, according to the board.  Prices have dropped 7.1 percent from a 13-month high of
3,628 ringgit ($1,183) a ton on April 10, on expectations of
higher output and as concern over the Euro crisis deepened,
damping demand for commodities. Lower reserves could halt the
decline in prices and possibly improve profits at producers such
as  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  and IOI Corp.  “Output is probably going through a soft patch and we
believe this is going to last longer than what the market is
expecting,”  Abah Ofon , an analyst at  Standard Chartered  Plc,
said by phone in  Singapore . The drop in stockpiles “is going to
slow that decline in prices; further downside momentum is going
to be limited. In the longer term, as output slows more, it’s
going to create further upside pressure particularly in” the
fourth quarter, he said.  Ageing Plantations  Prices are expected to average 3,700 ringgit a ton in the
last three months of the year and output will undergo a “severe
structural slowdown” because of the ageing profile of
plantations in  Southeast Asia , Standard Chartered wrote in a
report dated April 30.  Output in Malaysia will drop in the first half from a year
earlier,  Dorab Mistry , a director at Godrej International Ltd.,
said March 27. From March, production each month will be less on
a year-on-year comparison, and the low cycle may end in
November, he said March 7. Production for the first four months
of the year is 2.7 percent lower than the same period in 2011,
according to board data.  The July-delivery contract advanced as much as 1.5 percent
to 3,384 ringgit a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange and
traded at 3,370 ringgit at 3:40 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur . Futures
are up 6.1 percent this year.  Palm-oil  exports  from Malaysia dropped 6 percent to 450,269
tons in the first 10 days of May from the same period a month
earlier, surveyor Intertek said today.  “I’m not overly surprised at exports because Indonesia is
now a more competitive player and we also understand that
they’re building capacity at a fairly brisk pace,” said Ofon.
“I would imagine that a lot of the imports might defer to
Indonesia and that may limit the amount that comes out of
Malaysia.”  Palm-oil companies are increasing their refining capacity
in Indonesia to take advantage of the tax benefits, which give
them an advantage over refineries in Malaysia, Adrian Foulger,
head of food and beverage research at Standard Chartered Plc,
said May 8.  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the world’s biggest palm-oil
processor, plans to spend more than $100 million to boost its
refining capacity in Indonesia by 50 percent, Chief Operating
Officer Martua Sitorus, said today. The company won’t cut
capacity in Malaysia, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  