-- Aluminum Buyers in Japan to Pay Record Fee on Supply Drop
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-05-10T07:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/aluminum-fee-by-japan-may-jump-to-record-as-asia-supply-drops.html
Aluminum buyers in  Japan ,  Asia ’s
largest importer, may pay a record fee to producers after China
boosted purchases and global smelters cut output.  Premiums for the three months starting in July may climb
more than $30 from fees this quarter between $115 and $127 a
metric ton over the London Metal Exchange cash price, four
executives, representing smelters and buyers, said before
pricing talks this month. The highest fee since Japanese buyers
began purchasing most requirements through long-term contracts
in 1996 was $125 to $130 for the first quarter of 2010, they
said, declining to be identified as negotiations are private.  Premiums are poised to surge as demand is expanding in
Japan, led by the auto and construction industries, because of
rebuilding from last year’s earthquake and tsunami. Buyers in
 China , the biggest consumer, boosted imports as they took
advantage of international prices that were below domestic
levels.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. producer, cut 12 percent of
capacity in January and Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld 
said last month the reductions “may not be the end.”  “As demand is picking up, buyers may have no other option
but to pay more to secure supply,” said Kunio Ishikawa, a
director at the Japan Aluminium Association.  Supply Declines  Shipments to Asian buyers decreased after  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) ,
 Europe ’s third-largest producer, cut annual production at its
Kurri Kurri smelter in Australia by a third, or 60,000 tons, in
January, spurring importers to seek alternative supplies.  Availability in Asia also declined after producers in the
 Middle East  boosted shipments to Europe and the U.S., where the
metal traded at higher premiums than Japan. The U.S. Midwest
premium, added to the price of immediate-delivery aluminum,
climbed to a record 11.5 cents a pound ($254 a ton), while
premiums in Europe advanced to $160 a ton.  Aluminum has trimmed this year’s advance to 1.6 percent as
the price retreated to a four-month low yesterday amid concerns
political turmoil in Greece may worsen Europe’s debt crisis and
derail the global recovery. Metal for three-month delivery
gained 0.2 percent to $2,053 a ton at 4:22 p.m. Tokyo time,
dropping from a five-month high of $2,361.50 reached on March 2.  Japan’s shipments of rolled-aluminum products are forecast
to gain 2.8 percent to 2.06 million tons for the year to March
31, 2013, the highest level in five years, the Japan Aluminium
Association forecast in March.  Demand expansion is led by the auto industry as companies
such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  benefited from
surging domestic sales after the government offered subsidies
for purchases of fuel-efficient vehicles. Motor vehicle sales
for March were the highest since March 2006, up 49 percent from
the previous month, and 78 percent from a year earlier,
according to the Japan Automobile Dealers Association.  China Imports  China’s imports of primary aluminum surged 177 percent to
63,634 metric tons in March, according to the Beijing-based
Customs General Administration. Imports in the first three
months amounted to 186,241 tons, rising 149 percent on year.  The increase in Japanese aluminum fees may boost costs for
fabricators such as  Furukawa-Sky Aluminum Corp. (5741) , Japan’s largest
mill. Spokesman Ryu Sawachi said he couldn’t confirm the premium.  The fee is applied to so-called Good Western-grade aluminum
ingot. It includes freight and insurance costs, and reflects
local supply and demand. The biggest suppliers of Western ingot
to Japan include Rio Tinto Group,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Alcoa
Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  