-- Americans Want Additional Nutrition Data on Food Labels
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-05-10T15:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/americans-want-additional-nutrition-data-on-food-labels.html
More Americans want additional
information on  nutrition labels   than  two years ago while
confidence in the safety of U.S. food is unchanged, according to
a survey released today by an industry-backed research group.  Twenty-four percent of respondents said they would prefer
more information on labels, including data on nutrition,
ingredients and potential allergens and their side effects.
That’s up from 18 percent in the International Food Information
Council’s previous survey of consumer perceptions of food
technology in 2010. Sixty-nine percent were very or somewhat
confident in U.S.  food safety , the same as two years ago.  “We see people wanting to know more about nutrition, and
we saw a big jump in people who want to know more about food
safety,” said  Lindsey Loving , a senior director for the
Washington-based group. Still, even when well-publicized food-
safety scares occur, “the average consumer is still confident
in the  food supply ,” she said.  A public backlash earlier this year over ammonia-treated
beef scraps that consumer activists dubbed “pink slime” led to
lost business for Beef Products Inc. and caused demand for
ground beef to drop in March to the lowest level for that month
in a decade. Transglutaminase, an enzyme that binds together
different cuts of meat called “meat glue,” and insect extracts
used for  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  food coloring have also been targeted
by consumer campaigns.  Mad Cow Concerns  That, combined with the first U.S. mad-cow disease case
since 2006, has led consumer groups to call for more regulation
of the food supply. The percentage of label supporters in the
survey who wanted more information on food safety jumped to 18
percent in 2012 from 2 percent in 2010, indicating a subset of
the population that pays close attention to food is more
demanding about its safety, Loving said.  “There is a food scare almost per week these days,” Gary
Hirshberg, the chief executive officer of Stonyfield Farm Inc.,
said in a telephone interview, citing mad cow disease and pink
slime. “All of this is confirming what we know, that we have to
eat a lot more defensively, and read labels and know what’s in
our food.”  Londonderry, New Hampshire-based Stonyfield Farms is the
biggest maker of organic yogurt in the U.S.  750 Surveyed  For the survey released today, 750 consumers over the age
of 18 were interviewed from March 7 to 19 by  Cogent Research  of
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , just as the first major media reports
on pink slime were published. The poll, which has been conducted
most years since 1997 to track consumer attitudes toward food,
has a margin of error of 3.6 percentage points, the council
said.  Consumer concerns about food are mounting, said Dana
Hamson, an extension meat specialist at  North Carolina State
University . Technology has transformed  food processing , yet the
public is often unaware of how their food is made. Increased
awareness has sparked concerns, he said in a telephone
interview.  Many times, the reaction is “a draconian fear of the
unknown,” said Hanson.  Education about food-safety is important to help consumers
keep these threats in perspective, Agriculture Secretary Tom
Vilsack said today in an interview with Bloomberg Television. In
the mad cow incident, livestock prices quickly recovered and
trade faced little disruption because people understood that
this case, the first instance of the disease in six years,
didn’t post a threat to food safety, he said.  USDA Reassurance  “We will reassure the consumer that American beef is a
good buy,” he said.  Loving, with the International Food Information Council,
said consumer worries about food safety tend to rise and fall
with media reports, while the long-term trend has been toward
acceptance of biotechnology in food and a greater importance
placed on sustainable farming practices.  Almost three-quarters of those surveyed said they are aware
of plant biotechnology, such as genetically modified seeds made
by  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and  DuPont Co. (DD)  About 38 percent have favorable
opinions of biotech, while 26 percent are neutral, 20 percent
are unfavorable and 17 percent say they don’t know enough about
the topic. In 2010,  32 percent  had a favorable view.  On sustainability, 56 percent of respondents said they have
heard or read something about sustainability in  food production .
That’s up from 50 percent two years ago and 41 percent in 2008.  The International Food Information Council and its
affiliated foundation provide research and information on food
issues. Its foundation board includes representatives from
companies including  Coca-Cola Co., (KO)   General Mills Inc. (GIS)  and  Kraft
Foods Inc., (KFT)  along with faculty members from several
universities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  