-- AngloGold Profit Rises 46%; Plans $1.9 Billion of Project
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-05-10T15:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/anglogold-profit-rises-46-plans-1-9-billion-of-project.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the third-
largest producer of the metal, beat first-quarter earnings
expectations and approved $1.9 billion of projects to help boost
output by as much as 29 percent in about the next two years.  Adjusted earnings excluding one-time items rose 46 percent
to $1.11 a share, helped by a $90 million tax credit, from $0.76
in the previous three months, the Johannesburg-based company
said in a statement today. The median  estimate  of three analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was 6.46 rand (81 U.S. cents).  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  plans to spur output
to benefit from bullion prices that have gained for 10 straight
years. Government safety stoppages in South Africa and a 21-day
halt at  Ghana ’s Obuasi operation hampered his efforts in the
quarter, with production of 981,000 ounces missing a target of
1.03 million ounces. Second-quarter output will probably be
about 1.04 million ounces, according to AngloGold.  The shares rose 3.6 percent to 272 rand by the 5 p.m. close
in Johannesburg. Competitor Gold Fields Ltd. gained 3.3 percent.  Gold may climb to $1,700 to $1,800 an ounce for the rest of
the year, possibly breaching $2,000, Cutifani told reporters on
a call today. The metal traded at $1,595.31 an ounce in  London .  In the second half dividends may be higher than the minimum
1 rand a quarter that the company has offered as guidance,
depending on the price of the metal, Cutifani said.  Congo Mine  AngloGold approved $1.9 billion of investments for the next
five years to expand the Cripple Creek & Victor mine in the U.S.
and dig the  Democratic Republic  of Congo’s Mongbwalu and Kibali
mines, adding 500,000 ounces of annual output. It plans to boost
production to 5.4 million to 5.6 million ounces by about 2014.  The biggest risk for output growth is from state-ordered
safety stops in  South Africa , Cutifani said in a speech today in
Johannesburg. The country often shuts mines or parts of mines
for safety checks to curb deaths, which totaled 123 in 2011.  Safety stops remain an issue of “concern, debate and
contestation,” Chairman  Tito Mboweni  told an annual general
meeting in Johannesburg today. Halting entire mines after
incidents hurts production, Mboweni said.  Mining deaths in South Africa, the nation with the deepest
gold and platinum mines, fell to a record low in April, Mines
Minister Susan Shabangu said last week, adding there’s been “a
significant improvement on health and safety since the
department has intensified the enforcement measures.”  Constructive Process  Safety disruptions eased in the past month after talks with
the government and there may be “a more constructive process,”
Cutifani said. Fifteen people died at AngloGold mines last year.  The company is overestimating forecasts for South African
operations,  David Davis , an SBG Securities Ltd. analyst, said
April 24. AngloGold will probably produce 5.1 million ounces by
2014 and achieve 5.5 million ounces two years later, he said.  “You might get a bit of slide but the risk is measured in
months, not years,” Cutifani said by phone, referring to the
targets. AngloGold mines about 40 percent of its metal in South
Africa, where labor strikes have hampered production. It also
operates in most southern hemisphere regions.  The Australian Tropicana project and Cripple Creek deposit
have underground potential, Cutifani said, adding the resource
of La Colosa in  Colombia  grew 48 percent to 24.2 million ounces
and Guinea and Djibouti may deliver new mines. A doubling of
capacity to 500,000 ounces in  Guinea  may cost $300 million to
$500 million, based on a rough estimate, he said.  In  Mali , the company has put its Sadiola sulfide project on
hold until it has an assurance that commitments on power and
other matters from the previous government will be honored by
the new authorities following a coup, Cutifani said.  AngloGold’s $335 million bid for First Uranium Corp.’s Mine
Waste Solutions is “full and fair” and the company won’t make
another offer, he said. A group including Olma Investment Firm
and Stratton Enterprises Inc. said last month it was too low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  