-- Arbuthnot’s Gilliat Extends Structured Note Sales Outside U.K.
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-05-10T14:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/arbuthnot-s-gilliat-extends-structured-note-sales-outside-u-k-.html
Gilliat Financial Solutions, a unit
of  Arbuthnot Banking Group Plc (ARBB)  that designs structured products,
created its first securities for investors outside the U.K.  Gilliat constructed five-year notes linked to the
performance of global equity indexes that were sold by  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  on May 4,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The notes were London-based Gilliat’s first to be sold
outside of its home market, where it distributes structured
products to individual investors through financial
intermediaries such as independent financial advisers, or IFAs,
said Adrian Neave, managing director of Gilliat.  “Product design has been our core business, but we are
also building our distribution channels, first to U.K. IFAs and
now for retail investors based outside the U.K.,” Neave said.  The notes, which were offered in euros, dollars and pounds,
were sold through IFAs that offer advice to U.K. citizens living
or working abroad. The company planned to attract between $5
million to $10 million of investment, said Andrew Savill, who
was hired from RBS in December to develop the company’s
international business. He declined to disclose sales figures.  Investors in the securities issued by RBS, which are linked
to the  FTSE 100 (UKX) ,  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and the  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , get a maximum annual coupon of 12.25
percent if all three indexes are equal to or above 70 percent of
their closing price on April 27, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The notes terminate early on any anniversary date if all
the benchmarks are equal to or above the initial value, and
capital is lost if any of the indexes are less than half of that
level at maturity.  Credit Suisse’s notes are tied to the FTSE 100 and the  S&P
500  and pay a maximum 7.5 percent a year, according to an offer
document for the securities. Investors lose their principal if
one or both of the benchmarks decline 60 percent or more from
their April 2012 level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  