-- ArcelorMittal Profit Falls 24%, Exceeds Estimates
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-05-10T16:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/arcelormittal-profit-falls-24-exceeds-estimates.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, posted first-quarter profit that beat estimates
after a recovery in North America countered declining revenue
from mining and weaker European demand.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization were $1.97 billion, ArcelorMittal said today in a
statement, exceeding the $1.67 billion median estimate of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company maintained guidance
that first-half Ebitda will be higher than the prior six months.  “North America was a lot stronger than I would have
thought, up very strongly sequentially driven by both volumes
and prices,”  Tim Cahill , a Dublin-based analyst at J&E Davy
Holdings Ltd., said by phone. “That was definitely a
surprise.”  Profit at ArcelorMittal’s Americas flat-steel business more
than doubled from the prior three months as production rose by 4
percent to meet demand for use in cars, appliances and farming
equipment -- so-called yellow goods. U.S. consumption of the
metal is forecast by the World Steel Association to rise 5.7
percent this year, contrasting with slumping European demand.  ArcelorMittal saw “improved sentiment in a number of key
markets, in particular  North America  where the automotive and
white and yellow goods sectors continue to show strong demand,”
 Aditya Mittal , chief financial officer, said on a call.  Shares Advance  The company rose 2.4 percent to 12.70 euros by the close of
Amsterdam trading, paring its loss this year to 14 percent.  European demand is set to drop 1 percent to 2 percent this
year, Mittal said. “ Europe  clearly remains a live concern but
we’re not seeing a crisis-like environment occurring,” he said.
“The risks are reduced from where we were in November.”  Net debt rose $1.1 billion to  $23.6 billion  in the quarter.
The company forecast debt would fall in the three months through
June thanks to “improved operating cashflows” and asset sales.
The steelmaker expects to be below its $22.5 billion net-debt
target by the end of the second quarter, the CFO said.  First-quarter steel shipments rose 7.8 percent to 22.2
million metric tons from the prior three months. While they are
expected to be similar in the second quarter, all the company’s
steel businesses are “expected to show improved underlying
profitability” in the second quarter, ArcelorMittal said.  Improving Outlook  Profit in the three months ending June will be bolstered by
higher steel prices, while seasonally higher  iron-ore  shipments
will drive earnings in mining, Mittal said. Ebitda is forecast
at $4.48 billion for the first half, according to the average
estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company
posted a figure of $4.1 billion in the prior six months.  Ebitda in the first quarter fell 24 percent from a year
earlier on lower steel and iron ore prices. Steelmakers are
posting lower earnings as the  European debt crisis  saps demand
for steel and commodity prices weaken on concern Chinese growth
may slow.  South Korea ’s Posco, the third-biggest steel producer,
reported a 42 percent slump in quarterly profit last month.  ArcelorMittal, based in Luxembourg, reported a 21 percent
drop in earnings from its mining division as declining prices
overshadowed a 12 percent gain in iron-ore production.  Prices for hot-rolled steel coil, a benchmark product used
in vehicles and buildings, averaged $703.50 a ton in the first
quarter, from $793.70 a ton a year earlier, according to Steel
Business Briefing’s global price index. Iron ore, a steelmaking
ingredient, averaged 20 percent less than a year earlier.  Global steel use will rise 3.6 percent this year, less than
last year’s 5.6 percent increase, as European demand contracts
and Chinese use slows, according to the World Steel Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  