-- Arch Coal Lures Lenders With Coal in Ground: Corporate Finance
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-05-10T15:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/arch-coal-lures-lenders-with-coal-in-ground-corporate-finance.html
Lenders are allowing  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) 
to borrow $1 billion without the typical level of restrictions,
helping the company overcome plunging energy prices as it cuts
spending after two quarters of cash outflows.  The fourth-largest U.S. producer of coal, saddled with $4.1
billion of  debt , will use proceeds of a term loan to refinance
obligations and eliminate maturities until 2016 while increasing
liquidity. The company is reducing its revolver by $1 billion
and loosening restrictions on the existing credit line.  Lenders said they are interested in financing St. Louis-
based Arch Coal because of the yield the loans offer and the
collateral, such as its mines, supporting the borrowing. The
company is cutting expenses to limit the damage from a collapse
in U.S. coal prices, which fell 17 percent in the first quarter
from the average a year earlier.  “Arch is doing a number of things to save  cash flow ,”
Evan Mann, a New York-based analyst at Gimme Credit LLC said in
a telephone interview. “This new term loan helps its  capital
structure  and gives them more liquidity. So even if they have a
small free cash flow shortfall, it’s not a big deal.”  The company needs about $700 million of earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to break even,
Mann said. Gimme Credit is projecting a free cash flow
shortfall, after $26 million of dividends, of approximately $100
million in 2012, he wrote in a May 4 report. Free cash is money
available to pay debt, to reward stockholders with dividends and
buybacks, or to reinvest the company.  Free Cash Flow  Arch Coal reported negative  free cash flow  of $38.3 million
in the first quarter and $144.3 million in the final three
months of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  It posted a net loss of $7.6 million during the first
quarter, compared with net income of $59.4 million in the
comparable year-ago period, according to a May 1 regulatory
filing. Adjusted Ebitda totaled $179.8 million during the
period, down from $191.4 million in the first quarter of 2011.  Kim Link, a spokeswoman for Arch Coal, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment.  “Severe weakness in U.S. thermal coal markets” affected
results, Arch Coal Chief Executive Officer John Eaves said in
the filing. Arch Coal expects coal consumption for power
generation to decline by at least 75 million tons in 2012,
compared with 2011, because of “unfavorable weather trends”
that have reduced power demand and contributed to a natural gas
surplus, he said.  ‘Perfect Storm’  Central Appalachian thermal coal futures, the U.S.
benchmark, averaged $60.20 during the first quarter, down from
an average of $73.58 in the year ago period and down from a high
of $143.25 in July 2008.  “It’s like a perfect storm,” Mann said. “The three main
challenges are the really mild winter, a lethargic economy and
on top of that, with gas prices being so low, those utilities
that can burn gas have opted to burn gas instead of coal because
gas is so cheap.”  Cheap gas has undercut power producers’ revenues because it
drives down wholesale electricity prices, squeezing margins for
plants that run on nuclear, renewable and coal power.  Moody’s Investors Service changed its outlook for the U.S.
coal industry to “negative” from “stable” on May 7, citing
weak prices and a drop in power demand, and said it expects a 5
percent decline in prices for coal deliveries in 2013. The U.S.
Energy Information Administration expects the industry to see a
10.9 percent decline in coal consumption this year and Moody’s
expects U.S. coal demand from  power plants  to plunge by 100
million tons by 2020, the ratings company said in the report.  Coal Loses Share  While coal remains the leading source of power in the U.S.,
it has fallen to 37 percent of U.S. electricity generated during
January and February, combined, from 46 percent a year ago,
Energy Department data show.  “The U.S. coal industry is in the midst of a restructuring
that will cause some players to exit the market and others, like
Arch, to pare back operations until market conditions improve,”
Eaves said in the filing.  Arch Coal’s total coal sales fell 16 percent, to 35.5
million tons, missing estimates of 39.5 million tons by JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analysts. The company reduced full-year coal
guidance by 25 million tons, to 136 million to 142.5 million
from 151 million to 168 million tons earlier, JPMorgan analysts
wrote in a May 1 report.  Peabody Energy Corp., Alpha Natural Resources Inc., and
Consolidated Energy Inc. are larger than Arch Coal, based on
sales, Bloomberg data show.  Arch Coal cut its quarterly  dividend  by 73 percent, to 3
cents a share from 11 cents, saving $68 million a year, it said
in the May 1 filing.  New Loan  It’s seeking lender commitments by today for the six-year
 term loan  that will support a tender for $450 million of 6.75
percent notes due in 2013 and pay down borrowings under a line
of credit. In a revolving credit money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; with a term loan, it can’t.  The debt is being offered with an interest rate of either
5.75 percent or 4.5 percentage points more than the London
interbank offered rate, whichever is greater, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Three-month Libor, the rate banks charge
each other, was fixed at 0.47 percentage point yesterday.  The debt may be sold at 98.5 cents to 99 cents on the
dollar, the data show, reducing proceeds for the company and
boosting the yield for investors.  Lender demand is strong and Arch Coal may be able to borrow
on more favorable terms, according to two people familiar with
the transaction who declined to be identified because the deal
is private. The loan is senior secured, meaning it is repaid
ahead of any subordinated debt in the event of a default.  Asset Sales  The new borrowing will be covenant-lite, the company said
in a May 2 regulatory filing, meaning the loan will not contain
any financial maintenance covenants.  The loan terms allow Arch Coal to retire as much as $500
million of the new debt at par with asset-sale proceeds in the
first 12 months from closing.  “I would expect Arch to focus on selling mines that are
less profitable due to logistical reasons,” Kip Penniman, an
analyst at KDP Investment Advisors Inc. in Montpelier,  Vermont ,
wrote in an e-mail. “Those mines may be further away from the
company’s primary preparation plants, or may incur incremental
expense if Arch were to redeploy machinery to more productive
mines.”  ‘Challenging Conditions’  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Arch Coal to B+ from BB- on May 2,
and said it expects leverage “could be above 6.5 times until
the domestic steam coal market achieves balance.” Moody’s cut
Arch Coal’s corporate family rating to B1 from Ba3 and put the
company on watch for a possible downgrade while  Standard &
Poor’s  lowered its grade similarly, to B+ from BB-, on May 3.  “The negative outlook reflects our expectation that credit
metrics will remain weak through 2013 while the domestic coal
market will continue to face challenging conditions for the
foreseeable future,” Moody’s analysts wrote in a May 2 report.  The company’s  shares  sank to their lowest level since July
2002, to $7.60 on May 8. They traded at $8.25 at 11:56 a.m. in
 New York .  Arch Coal’s $500 million of 7.25 percent bonds due in
October 2020 are down 15.3 percent this year, while a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Index of all high-yield U.S. coal
companies has lost 2.1 percent. Its $600 million of 8.75 percent
notes due 2016 traded yesterday at 100.75 cents on the dollar to
yield 8.52 percent, according to Trace, the bond price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  “Arch’s senior bonds are yielding less than 9 percent,”
Penniman said. “These bonds are not distressed and we place a
relatively low probability that Arch will have difficulty
servicing its debt.”  The 8.75 percent bonds are the next maturity Arch Coal has
to address if it successfully tenders for the 6.75 percent
notes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Not having refinancing risk looming over their head will
give people some comfort,” GimmeCredit’s Mann said.
“Operationally it’s going to be difficult for everybody in the
industry. They’re all scaling back,” he said. What Arch Coal is
doing “is defensive and prudent. No one else has done that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 