-- Arena Soars After Weight-Loss Pill Wins Panel Backing
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-05-11T20:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/arena-wins-fda-advisory-panel-backing-for-obesity-pill.html
Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA)  jumped the
most ever after the company’s weight-loss pill gained the
backing of an advisory panel, putting two obesity drugs in line
for U.S. approval almost two years after regulators rejected
them as too risky.  Arena rose 74 percent to $6.36 at 4 p.m.  New York  time, the
biggest increase since the company’s shares began trading
publicly in July 2000.  Food and Drug Administration advisers voted 18-4 yesterday
that the benefits of Arena’s pill, known as lorcaserin, outweigh
the risks. The FDA is scheduled to decide by June 27 on
lorcaserin, and doesn’t have to follow the panel’s advice.  Arena, based in San Diego, is competing with  Mountain View ,
California-based  Vivus Inc. (VVUS)  and  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX) ,
based in La Jolla,  California , to introduce the first weight-
loss drug since  Roche Holding AG’s (ROG)  Xenical in 1999. The FDA
previously turned down all three drugs. Panel members raised
concerns that lorcaserin provides a modest benefit while
potentially raising heart risks.  “It’s time to approve this drug,” said Peter Gross, a
panel member and chairman of the Hackensack Physician-Hospital
Alliance in  New Jersey . “We do not put our head in the sand.”  Vivus climbed 8.9 percent to $24.70, while Orexigen
increased 19 percent to $3.99.  Panel members suggested that if lorcaserin gains approval,
Arena should do follow-up studies on how it affects the heart.
The FDA advisers made the same suggestion for a post-market
study of Vivus’s pill Qnexa after backing it 20-2 in February.
The agency is scheduled to decide on Qnexa by July 17.  Obesity Epidemic  More than 78 million U.S. adults are obese, according to
the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in Atlanta.
Obesity raises the risks of diabetes, heart attacks and stroke,
and costs the  U.S. economy  an estimated $147 billion a year in
medical expenses and lost productivity, according to the CDC.  “The advisory committee’s positive vote supports our
belief in lorcaserin as a potential new treatment option,” Jack Lief, Arena’s president and chief executive officer, said in a
statement. Arena has licensed lorcaserin to Tokyo-based  Eisai
Co. (4523)  to sell in the U.S.  In failing to approve lorcaserin in October 2010, the
agency said people didn’t lose enough weight on the medicine to
justify the risk of developing cancer associated with the drug.
The company resubmitted its application to the FDA for review in
January with new data.  New analysis allayed cancer concerns,  Abraham Thomas ,
chairman of the panel and head of the endocrinology and diabetes
division at Henry Ford Hospital in  Detroit , said after voting in
support of the pill.  Cancer Risks  An FDA staff  report  May 8 determined the risks of cancer
may be smaller than thought. An agency review of the potential
for humans developing brain tumors seen in rats tested with
lorcaserin found the risk is negligible, agency staff said in
the report. They also determined benign breast tumors in rats
were more common than malignant ones at all dose levels.  Lorcaserin affects an area of the brain that controls
appetite and metabolism, according to Arena. It works in a
similar way to fenfluramine, part of the fen-phen appetite-
suppression drug combination pulled from pharmacies 15 years ago
when it was linked to heart-valve abnormalities.  Some panel members suggested the FDA require lorcaserin to
include a risk management plan that possibly screens patients
for abnormalities before starting treatments and warns patients
about the potential of developing a valve abnormality.  Study Results  Patients who tested Arena’s treatment in three studies lost
about 3 percent more of their body weight than those who took a
placebo, according to FDA staff. People who took part in trials
on Vivus’s Qnexa lost 6.7 percent and 8.9 percent more of their
body weight on mid and high doses compared to those who used a
placebo, FDA staff said in a Feb. 20  report  on the drug.  Panel members who voted against lorcaserin questioned
whether the weight loss was enough.  “Weight loss is clinically discernible with lorcaserin but
I’m not sure it’s clinically meaningful,” said Sanjay Kaul, a
panel member and professor at the David Geffen School of
Medicine at the  University of California ,  Los Angeles .  Like Arena’s lorcaserin, the FDA declined to approve
Vivus’s Qnexa in October 2010. Orexigen won a panel’s backing in
December 2010 before the agency declined to approve the
company’s drug, Contrave. Orexigen, developing Contrave with
 Osaka , Japan-based  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , agreed in
September to conduct a two-year study of the medicine’s heart
risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  