-- Harrisburg Officials Seek to Halt State Receivership Case
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-05-10T19:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/harrisburg-officials-seek-to-halt-state-receivership-case.html
Elected officials of Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania , asked a judge to suspend the state’s takeover of
city finances until a court investigates the resignation of
former receiver David Unkovic.  Three officials who have opposed efforts by the city’s
mayor and the state to restructure Harrisburg’s finances asked
the judge overseeing the receivership to halt any work by
Governor Tom Corbett related to the takeover, according to a
document provided by  Mark Schwartz , the officials’ lawyer.  Unkovic sent a handwritten letter to the court in March,
saying that he was quitting because of his “untenable position
in the political and ethical crosswinds.”  “Given the wording of the Receivership Act and the words
of Mr. Unkovic, everything with respect to the Harrisburg
Receivership needs to be halted,” Schwartz wrote in his motion
on behalf of Council President Wanda Williams, Controller  Dan Miller  and Treasurer John Campbell.  The three officials asked state appeals court Judge Bonnie Leadbetter to hold a hearing and require Unkovic to explain his
resignation. All receivership activity should be suspended until
that hearing, the officials said.  Steven Kratz, a spokesman for Pennsylvania’s economic
development department, said the state intends to nominate a
replacement for Unkovic.  ‘Remain Focused’  “We remain focused on nominating a new receiver and the
ongoing fiscal recovery efforts including the implementation of
the court-approved recovery plan,” Kratz said in an e-mail.  Mayor Linda D. Thompson called the request for a hearing
and opposition to the proposed recovery plan “distractions.”  “Those council members who oppose the court-ordered
financial recovery plan are simply stalling the process as much
as they can get away with, just as they have over the last two
years,” Thompson said in a statement today.  Before he resigned, Unkovic filed an initial version of a
plan that proposed selling or leasing city assets, including a
trash-to-energy plant that doesn’t generate enough revenue to
cover more than $300 million in debt.  The debt is one of the main reasons Harrisburg, the state’s
capital, is insolvent. In March, the city of 49,500 announced it
would miss $5.27 million in bond payments. It earlier defaulted
on payments it guaranteed on the waste-to-energy incinerator.  The plan divided Harrisburg officials, with the controller,
treasurer and some members of the city council opposing Unkovic.
Thompson had supported him.  The receiver case is TD Bank NA v. Harrisburg Authority,
2010-CV-11737, Court of Common Pleas, Dauphin County,
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  