-- Arsenal Confident of Keeping Juventus Target Van Persie: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-05-10T09:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/arsenal-confident-of-keeping-juventus-target-van-persie-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Van Persie  to Stay?  Arsenal is confident of extending  Robin van Persie ’s
contract after this season even though Italian champion Juventus
has expressed an interest in the Dutch striker, the  Guardian 
reported.  Giuseppe Marotta, Juve’s general director, told Italian
website calciomercato.com that Van Persie is “a complete player
and would be useful to any team. But he still has one year left
on his contract with Arsenal. We will try to put the icing on
the cake this summer but the important thing is that the mix is
good.”  Real Madrid and Barcelona are also interested in the 28-
year-old Holland international. He may be offered a four-year
contract to stay at Arsenal, the Guardian said.  United May Bid for Baines  Manchester United  may offer Everton as much as 10 million
pounds ($16 million) for Leighton Baines, the  Daily Mirror 
reported.  United manager  Alex Ferguson  regards England left-back
Baines as “the ideal successor” for Patrice Evra, who turns 31
next week, the paper said.  Chelsea Fans’ Anger?  Chelsea risks angering its fans by letting  Didier Drogba 
leave at the end of the season, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The Ivory Coast striker, 34, had asked for a two-year deal,
but his request has not been met because the London club wants
to build the team around  Fernando Torres , the newspaper said.  Sheikh No-Show?  Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan isn’t expected to be in
the Etihad Stadium in three days to watch his club  Manchester
City  attempt to win its first English championship in 44 years,
the  Guardian  reported.  The Abu Dhabi owner of City has attended only one home game
since he bought the club in 2008, the newspaper said. He’s
likely to watch the match against Queens Park Rangers on
television, although there may still be a late change of plan,
the Guardian added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  