-- Martin Currie Fined by SEC, U.K. FSA for Client Manipulation
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o ,   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-05-11T03:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/martin-currie-fined-14-million-by-sec-u-k-fsa-over-conflicts.html
Martin Currie Investment Management
Ltd., an Edinburgh-based fund management group, was fined about
$14 million by finance regulators in the U.S. and U.K. for
manipulating a client to aid a hedge fund the firm managed.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission accused Martin
Currie Investment Management Ltd. and Martin Currie Inc. with
advising  The China Fund Inc. (CHN)  to invest in its struggling hedge
fund with a “largely illiquid exposure” to a Chinese company,
the regulator said today.  “The misconduct in this case strikes at the heart of the
fiduciary relationship between an  investment adviser  and its
client,” said  Robert Khuzami , SEC enforcement director, in the
agency’s  statement . “Advisers must treat each client with
undivided and disinterested loyalty, and must make full and fair
disclosure of all material conflicts of interest.”  The SEC investigation into individuals is continuing.  Martin Currie settled the charges with the SEC for $8.3
million and was fined 3.5 million pounds ($5.7 million) by the
U.K. Financial Services Authority. It is the largest fine levied
by the FSA for failing to manage a conflict of interest, the
British regulator said.  Since it disclosed the conflict of interest in July,  Martin
Currie ’s assets under management have fallen to about 5 billion
pounds, according to its website, compared with 10.1 billion
pounds in mid-2011.  The firm gave preferential treatment to its client, the
Martin Currie China Hedge Fund LP, which had invested heavily in
a Chinese printer-cartridge recycling company, Jackin
International Holdings, and was facing increasing requests for
redemptions from its investors, the SEC said.  Hasty, Ill-Advised  Martin Currie fraudulently used The China Fund to rescue
the hedge fund by advising it to make “a hasty, ill-advised
$22.8 million convertible bond investment in a Jackin
subsidiary” in April 2009, the regulator said. As part of the
deal, Jackin used the investment to redeem $10 million of the
hedge fund’s bonds at face value, giving them liquidity to pay
investors.  The China Fund sold the bonds in April 2011 for about half
of their face value. The investments were made under the
direction of two portfolio managers, the SEC said, without
identifying them.  Chris Ruffle , who was overseeing about 3 billion pounds for
clients when he left Martin Currie in July, invested about 15
million pounds on behalf of one client in an unlisted
convertible bond, the FSA has said. The bond was issued in 2009
by Ugent Holdings Ltd., the Jackin affiliate.  Left the Firm  Ruffle, who was responsible for co-managing 31 percent of
Martin Currie’s assets, left the firm after an examination of
transactions in the bond issued by the Jackin subsidiary, the
firm said at the time. Ruffle, now the chairman of Heartland
Capital Management, couldn’t be reached at his office in
 Shanghai  after regular business hours.  Martin Currie’s unlisted investments division has now been
closed, the firm said in a statement.  “The FSA and SEC investigations related to historic
investments in a series of three unlisted bonds, the first of
which took place five years ago,” the firm said. “Those
investments gave rise to a conflict of interest between two
client accounts, which also exposed certain weaknesses in Martin
Currie’s systems and controls.”  The firm said it compensated the client and returned all
related fees.  Martin Currie’s directors and external shareholders have
also invested about 25 million pounds in the company, which gave
it more than 300 percent of its regulatory capital requirement,
the  money manager  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  