-- U.S., European Stocks Gain as Euro Rebounds After Slump
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-10T20:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/asia-stocks-rise-on-earnings-as-aussie-gains-credit-risk-climbs.html
Stocks rose, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rebounding from a two-month low, while European
equities erased early losses and the euro snapped the longest
slide since 2008 as Greece attempted to form a new government.  The  S&P 500  added 0.3 percent at 4 p.m. in New York, with
Cisco Systems Inc. leading a drop in technology companies that
limited the market’s advance. The euro climbed 0.1 percent to
$1.2947, halting an eight-day slump, and Spanish 10-year bond
yields slid nine basis points after three days of gains. Oil
snapped a six-day drop and copper gained 0.8 percent. S&P 500
futures dropped 0.6 percent at 4:56 p.m. as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
slumped 5.1 percent after  saying  one of its divisions had
“significant” mark-to-market losses.  Greece’s  Evangelos Venizelos , the socialist Pasok leader
and former finance minister, said his goal was to form a
government that will ensure Greece remains in the euro area,
following three days of political impasse. Deutsche Telekom AG
and  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  rose in  Europe  and  News Corp . rallied in New
York after earnings beat estimates. First-time claims for U.S.
jobless benefits fell last week to a one-month low, the Labor
Department said.  “There’s an attempt to patch things together in Greece,”
said  Michael Strauss , who helps oversee about $27 billion of
assets as the chief investment strategist at Commonfund in
Wilton, Connecticut. “They will try to stay in the euro, though
I’m not sure they can,” he said. “What’s also helping the
market is that our earnings numbers have been good and the
economy is doing OK. Today’s claims data seem to support that.”  Lowest Since March  The S&P 500 rebounded after closing yesterday at the lowest
level since March 7. The benchmark index of U.S. stocks is down
4.3 percent from its four-year high last month, while still up 8
percent for the year.  Jobless claims  dropped by 1,000 to 367,000
in the period ended May 5, in line with the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey and the lowest since the end of March, the
Labor Department said.  Wells Fargo & Co . and SunTrust Banks Inc. rose at least 1.7
percent to pace gains in financial shares. Monster Beverage
Corp. surged 9 percent after the energy-drink maker reported
earnings that beat estimates.  Cisco (CSCO) , the biggest maker of
computer-networking equipment, slumped 10 percent for its
biggest drop in more than a year as sales and profit forecasts
trailed analysts’ projections.  Ten-year Treasury rates added six basis points to 1.88
percent after the government auctioned the debt at a record-low
yield yesterday.  Stronger Than Average  Treasuries remained lower even after stronger-than-average
bidding at the auction of $16 billion in 30-year bonds. The
securities drew a yield of 3.090 percent, compared with a
forecast of 3.114 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven of
the  Federal Reserve ’s primary dealers. The current 30-year yield
rose three basis points to 3.05 percent. Treasuries rose
yesterday as concern about Greece fueled demand for safer assets
that pushed the yield at an auction of U.S. 10-year notes to a
record low.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.6 percent, after
sinking 0.7 percent early in the session. Deutsche Telekom,
Europe’s second-largest telephone company, and Repsol YPF SA,
the Spanish  oil company  whose YPF SA unit was expropriated by
Argentina, advanced 3 percent and 8.2 percent, respectively.
 Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV)  rose 5.4 percent as the U.K.’s largest
 homebuilder  by volume reported its best spring selling season in
five years.  ‘Very Supportive’  “Earnings continue being very supportive,” said  Henk Potts , an equity strategist at Barclays Wealth in  London , which
oversees $239 billion. “Investors are no doubt spooked by the
difficult macro environment but they should appreciate that
corporate positions are an awful lot better than that.”  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
Spain’s biggest lenders, each climbed about 6 percent each as
the government said it will take over  Bankia SA (BKIA) , the lender with
the most Spanish real estate, as part of efforts to bolster
confidence in the country’s lenders. Bankia slipped 1.2 percent
to the lowest level since it started trading in July last year.  Spain’s  IBEX 35 Index (IBEX)  surged 3.4 percent, rebounding from
an  eight-year low .  JC Decaux SA, the French billboard company, tumbled 7.3
percent after saying the slowdown in Europe and  China  will
hinder second-quarter revenue.  The euro strengthened versus 10 of 16 major peers,
rebounding from the weakest level since January versus the euro
and lowest since February versus the yen.  Odds of Abandonment  At least one country will abandon the euro by year-end,
according to 57 percent of 1,253 investors, analysts and traders
polled in a May 8 Bloomberg survey of subscribers. The results
showed 80 percent expected more pain for Europe’s bond markets
and a majority identified a deterioration in Europe as a large
threat to the world economy.  The European equity benchmark yesterday fell yesterday to
its lowest level in almost four months as Greece’s politicians
struggled to agree on a government.  Venizelos, Greece’s former finance minister, received a
three-day mandate from President Karolos Papoulias today to
attempt to form a coalition government. Alexis Tsipras, the
leader of the left-wing Syriza coalition, yesterday abandoned
his attempt to form a government, forcing Papoulias to turn to
Pasok, which came third in the elections.  Australia’s dollar rallied against 15 of 16 major peers,
strengthening 0.4 percent versus its U.S. counterpart, after a
report showed the nation’s unemployment rate unexpectedly
dropped to a one-year low.  Bank of England  The pound gained 0.2 percent against the dollar as the  Bank
of England  halted stimulus expansion after seven months of bond
purchases and kept its benchmark rate unchanged, in line with
forecasts in Bloomberg surveys.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell for a seventh
straight day, its longest slump since August, as cotton slumped
4.7 percent  while corn slid more than 3 percent led after the
U.S. government forecast an increase in stockpiles. Oil
increased 0.3 percent to $97.08 a barrel.  Copper rallied amid speculation China, the world’s biggest
consumer of the metal, will move to spur growth after exports
and imports climbed less than economists estimated. Exports from
China gained 4.9 percent from a year earlier in April and
imports were up 0.3 percent, customs figures showed today.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted respective
increases of 8.5 percent and 10.9 percent. The import figure
“is likely to lead to further elevated fiscal spending and
monetary easing,” Credit Agricole SA said in a report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  