-- Hastings Wins $2.3 Billion Lease for Sydney Desalination Plant
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-05-10T23:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/hastings-wins-2-3-billion-lease-for-sydney-desalination-plant.html
Hastings Funds Management Pty and
 Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  won the right to lease the Sydney
Desalination Plant from  Australia ’s New South Wales state for
A$2.3 billion ($2.3 billion).  The 50-year lease includes the plant, the pipeline, the
site and a 50-year supply agreement with Sydney Water, the state
government said today in a statement. The funds will be used to
repay debt while A$300 million will be invested in the state’s
infrastructure fund.  Australia’s most populous state said in November it would
lease out the desalination plant as part of a plan to raise
money for new infrastructure projects. The lease, and a similar
arrangement for Port Botany, the nation’s second-biggest
container port, may bring in about A$4 billion for the state’s
 Restart NSW  infrastructure fund.  Hastings, based in Melbourne, specializes in infrastructure
management and oversees about A$6.7 billion, the company’s
website shows. The company’s funds include Utilities Trust of
Australia and the  Australian Infrastructure Fund (AIX) , which manages
a portfolio of airports, seaports and toll roads. Ontario,
Canada’s third-biggest retirement-fund manager responsible for
managing pensions for about 300,000 teachers, managed C$117.1
billion ($116.8 billion) in assets as of Dec. 31 including real
estate and infrastructure.  The plant at Kurnell, on the edge of Botany Bay in south
Sydney, was completed in 2010. It’s designed to produce 90
gigaliters of drinking water a year, or 15 percent of greater
Sydney’s annual requirement, according to documents made
available to bidders and the media last year.  The proceeds from the lease will be used for infrastructure
projects including roads, schools and hospitals, state Treasurer
Mike Baird said in the statement. The group beat bidders
including Industry Funds Management Pty and  Spark Infrastructure
Group (SKI) , according people with knowledge of the matter.  New South Wales was advised by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc (GS) ,
King & Wood Mallesons and KPMG LLP while the winning bidders
were counseled by Morgan Stanley and  RBC Capital Markets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  