-- Qatar’s Tasweeq to Increase Bank Financing Outside Europe
-- B y   A n n   K o h   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-05-10T09:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/tasweeq-to-shift-funding-sources-away-from-european-banks.html
Qatar International Petroleum
Marketing Co., the state marketer of oil and gas products, will
seek to diversify its funding sources to include banks outside
 Europe  in the next year, an official said.  Qatar International, known as Tasweeq, will rely more on
Asian banks, particularly Japanese lenders, because of concern
for the European economic outlook and the possibility of  bank
failures , Roger Hickman, the company’s executive director of
finance, said in an interview in Singapore.  “We’re trying to spread out across more banks than we
currently have, so that we have access to funds,” he said after
speaking at the Eurofinance conference in the city-state. “We
are looking to aggressively balance our bank concentration risk
to avoid excessive exposure to Europe,” Hickman added.  The company is now using five banks for its cash
management, said Hickman.  “With multiple banks, in the event that there is a bank
failure, and it just so happens to be one of our banks, we have
more options available,” he said.  Tasweeq is also in early discussions with lenders over the
possibility of having some payments and purchases denominated in
the  yuan , he said. There has been a “slight” increase in the
demand from customers for trade finance in the Chinese currency,
he said.  “It’s a marketing tool for us. Some buyers can’t get
dollar-denominated funding,” Hickman said. China is the world’s
second biggest crude user, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical
Review.  Output Sales  There has been no difficulty in selling to customers, and
the company expects trading revenue to be $40 billion this year,
he said. Qatar will export 10 million to 11 million tons of
liquefied petroleum gas this year, according to Hickman. Field
condensate sales are estimated at 20 million to 22 million tons
and refined products exports including plant condensate will
reach 10 million to 11 million tons this year.  European banks are cutting back on loans, particularly in
commodity trade financing, in an effort to shore up capital.
France’s  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  both announced
last year that they would significantly reduce their trade
financing activities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  