-- AT&T, Sprint Promote LTE Phones With Unfinished Networks
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/at-t-fast-network-a-work-in-progress-in-race-with-verizon-tech.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  are
ramping up marketing for new smartphones with speedy LTE
service. The hitch: Most of their customers don’t live anywhere
near an LTE network.  The carriers are playing catch-up with Verizon Wireless,
which offers the service widely. LTE, short for long-term
evolution, is a new wireless standard that provides faster
access to the Web. AT&T offers it in 35 markets, reaching about
a quarter of the total  U.S. population . Sprint doesn’t have any
LTE service yet. It plans to roll it out in six cities sometime
around the middle of the year.  “If they let consumers know about the situation upfront
then it’s not so bad,” said Parul Desai, policy counsel for the
 Consumers Union  in  Washington . “I am more concerned about new
phone buyers who decide on a two-year contract and don’t get the
service for a quarter to half a year.”  The situation recalls the early days of high-definition
television, when consumers snapped up sets only to decry the
lack of HD shows. The carriers will face more pressure to have
wider LTE coverage later this year, when analysts expect  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  to release an LTE version of the iPhone. The iPhone
accounted for 64 percent of the smartphones sold at AT&T and
Verizon in the first quarter.  AT&T introduced its first LTE phones in November with
service in  nine cities . It’s now offering seven LTE phones and
the LTE Apple iPad, with a goal of complete national coverage by
the end of 2013. Verizon has LTE in  230 markets , covering two-
thirds of the U.S.  Far Behind  Sprint is the furthest behind in adding coverage, even as
it rolls out more LTE models. The company started selling the
 Samsung (005930)  Galaxy Nexus last month, the first of  15 LTE devices 
planned for this year. For now, buyers of those devices will
have to rely on slower 3G connections.  Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  said Sprint has
experience introducing next-generation phones while the network
is still being rolled out. The company did something similar
with its  HTC (2498)  EVO phone, which relies on a different 4G standard
called WiMax. When the EVO  debuted  in June 2010, Sprint had
WiMax service in only  33 cities . Even so, the EVO set a one-day
 sales record  for any single device at Sprint.  “We have been through this before,” Hesse said in an
interview. “We are extremely experienced at it. We know exactly
what it means to launch a 4G device early, as you are in the
middle of a rollout.”  IPhone Club  Still, the stakes are higher with the iPhone. Sprint, which
didn’t offer the device until last year, sees the phone as a
linchpin of its comeback plan.  After four years of watching lucrative customers leave to
sign up for the iPhone at the other carriers, Sprint committed
to paying Apple $15.5 billion over four years to gain rights to
the product. That means it’s under pressure to sell a certain
number of units. When the next model comes out, Sprint plans to
offer it nationally -- even though its LTE network won’t be
fully built yet.  Buyers won’t be able to take advantage of the faster speed
to download videos and Web pages, essentially turning the new
iPhone into a regular 3G device. Hesse defends that approach by
saying that existing LTE models at Verizon and AT&T don’t sell
as well as the current 3G iPhone. That signals that consumers
are more interested in owning an Apple product than one that
works on the faster networks.  Verizon Versus AT&T  Even so, buyers of the next iPhone may demand broader
coverage. That would give an edge to Verizon -- and to a lesser
extent, AT&T.  While Verizon has been the quickest to build out an LTE
network, AT&T has offered the iPhone for longer. AT&T has a
larger base of Apple customers who may be looking to upgrade,
but also more to lose if consumers defect in search of a more
extensive network.  The Apple device made up 78 percent of AT&T’s smartphone
sales in the first quarter. At Verizon, the product accounted
for 51 percent. It relies more on models running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android, some of which already use LTE.  Brenda Raney , a spokeswoman for  Basking Ridge , New Jersey-
based  Verizon Wireless , declined to comment on LTE competition,
other than saying that her company was well ahead in offering
devices on the network. Verizon rolled out the HTC Droid
Incredible this week, marking the carrier’s 23rd LTE model.  Backup Network  AT&T says customers can always rely on its HSPA+ network
when they don’t have LTE access. That technology, short for
high-speed packet access, is an older wireless standard that
AT&T revamped to make it fast enough to call 4G. Still, it
doesn’t have the speed or name recognition of LTE.  “The big advantage for our customers is that if they fall
out of LTE service we have 4G covering over 260 million
people,” said  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T.  For Sprint, which is trying to recover from about  $8
billion in losses  over the past three years, the LTE handicap
will put an extra burden on its finances, said Robert Jaeger, an
independent telecommunications analyst in  New York .  “They’ll be at a disadvantage versus the big two,” Jaeger
said. “They can’t afford to be that far behind since their new
subscriber momentum is going to be key to start getting to
profitability.”  Sprint has sold a total of 3.3 million iPhones since the
product’s debut in October, a pace that Hesse said he’s happy
with. “After only two quarters, we are ahead of where we
expected to be,” he said.  Unlimited Plans  To draw attention away from its limited LTE coverage, the
company should focus its marketing message on service plans that
offer unlimited data for a fixed price, said Michael Cote, a
wireless strategist at the Cote Collaborative in  Chicago .
Verizon and AT&T have stopped selling such plans, opting instead
to charge customers by the amount of data they use.  To sell all the iPhones that it has promised to buy from
Apple, Sprint also could offer older versions to consumers at a
lower price, said Kevin Smithen, an analyst at Macquarie Capital
USA Inc. in New York. In that scenario, buyers wouldn’t expect
to get LTE anyway.  “They could sell the iPhone 4S for $100 with the unlimited
plan and meet the Apple volume commitments,” Smithen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  