-- Latvian Economy Quickens to Maintain Fastest Pace in EU
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-05-10T11:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/latvian-economy-quickens-to-maintain-fastest-pace-in-eu-1-.html
Latvia ’s  economic growth  accelerated
in the first quarter to maintain the fastest pace in the
European Union, suggesting the Baltic nation is weathering the
continent’s debt crisis.  Gross domestic product rose a preliminary 6.8 percent from
a year earlier, compared with 5.7 percent growth in the fourth
quarter, the  statistics office , based in the capital, Riga, said
today by e-mail. That’s more than the 4.5 percent median
estimate of four economists in a Bloomberg survey. GDP rose a
seasonally adjusted 1 percent from the previous quarter.  Latvia’s economy is rebounding from the world’s deepest
recession in 2008-2009, which erased almost a quarter of output.
Austerity measures mandated by an International Monetary Fund-
led bailout helped the Baltic nation restore competitiveness and
resume economic growth.  The economy is doing “miracles,” said  Violeta Klyviene ,
an economist with  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Vilnius. “These are
exclusive trends in the EU context. Growth is balanced, driven
both by positive domestic and external demand. Latvia’s export
structure is rather balanced, which provides hope that exports
will remain the key driver of economic growth despite turbulence
in the euro area.”  The yield on Latvia’s 2021 dollar bond fell 0.01 percentage
point to 5.03 percent today after the announcement.  Weathering Crisis  “The Latvian economy has not yet been significantly
affected by the slowdown in the euro area,” said  Annika Lindblad , an analyst with  Nordea Markets  in Helsinki. “Latvia’s
main trade partners are not among the most- vulnerable economies
and the domestic economy has held up well. Activity in the first
quarter was likely supported by continued growth in the export
sector as well as domestic demand.”  Growth may “substantially” exceed the government’s
official forecast of 2 percent this year, Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said in a May 7 interview. Both Nordea Markets and
Danske Bank said today they may revise their estimate of 2
percent on Latvia’s growth.  Standard & Poor’s  on May 2 raised Latvia’s credit rating to
BBB-, restoring its investment grade for the first time since
2009.  “Today’s data should ease fears of contagion from the
euro-zone crisis in Latvia,” said Liza Ermolenko, an economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “The breakdown is likely
to reveal that the domestic economy continued to strengthen in
the first quarter, driven by robust growth in investment and
consumer spending. This is certainly good news given that
investment is still well below its pre-crisis levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  