-- Australian Jobless Rate Unexpectedly Falls to 1-Year Low
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-10T07:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/australian-jobless-rate-unexpectedly-falls-to-1-year-low.html
Australia ’s unemployment rate
unexpectedly dropped to a one-year low as payrolls rose for a
second straight month, driving the local currency higher and
reducing bets on interest-rate cuts next month.  The  jobless rate  fell in April to 4.9 percent, matching the
lowest level since December 2008, from 5.2 percent in March, the
statistics bureau said in Sydney today. Economists forecast a
rise to 5.3 percent. Payrolls advanced by 15,500 after a revised
37,600 gain, compared with the median  estimate  for a 5,000
decline in a Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists.  The currency rebounded above $1.01 and stocks increased as
investors pared bets that  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  will lower borrowing costs after he slashed the
benchmark by half a point to 3.75 percent last week. Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  is cutting spending for the first time in
at least four decades and says the central bank has scope to
ease monetary policy further if needed.  “The drop in the unemployment rate is obviously
significant, given it’s under 5 percent,” said Celeste Tay, a
Singapore-based economist at 4cast Ltd. who predicted a 15,000
gain. “This raises the bar for a rate cut next month at the
margin, though the government’s fiscal tightening means it’s
still a good possibility.”  Rate Bets  Traders bet there’s a 61 percent chance the RBA will lower
rates at its June 5 meeting, a Credit Suisse Group AG index
showed. The Australian dollar bought $1.0121 at 5:01 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0061 prior to the data. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index of stocks closed 0.5 percent higher in Sydney.  Twenty-four of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predict the central bank will keep borrowing costs unchanged
next month. Three, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , expect a quarter-
point reduction.  The number of full-time jobs declined by 10,500 in April to
8.06 million, the biggest drop since November, while part-time
employment rose by 26,000 to a record 3.44 million, today’s
report showed.  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  said it plans to hire 1,000 new
employees across Australia. Chief Executive Officer Don Meij
said in a March 12 statement there had been “a recent surge in
demand for value pizzas.”  Australia’s participation rate, a measure of the working-
age population, dropped to 65.2 percent in April from 65.3
percent a month earlier, it showed.  Victoria Leads  Job gains were led by the southern state of Victoria, a hub
of manufacturing, with 23,200 jobs that defied the sustained
strength of the currency above parity with the U.S. dollar.
 Western Australia , the center of the nation’s mining investment
boom, added 6,800 jobs, the report showed. In contrast, New
South Wales, Australia’s most populous state, lost 23,800
positions.  Australia’s economy is being driven by a resource bonanza
as  China  and  India , two countries that account for more than a
third of the world’s population, increase demand for minerals
and energy.  Rio Tinto Group said last month that it has begun a four-
month recruitment drive to hire 6,000 workers for A$22 billion
of projects in Western Australia, the  Northern Territory ,
Queensland and New South Wales.  Currency Strength  The mining boom has underpinned Australia’s currency. The
so-called Aussie has risen more than 30 percent in the past
three years and stayed above parity with the  U.S. dollar  since
Dec. 20.  A report in Beijing today showed China’s exports and
imports rose less than estimated in April as weakness in  Europe 
and a domestic slowdown weighed on trade. The world’s most
populous nation is Australia’s biggest trading partner.  Australia’s economy faces headwinds after the government
announced this week it will cut spending for the first time in
at least 42 years as Gillard ends four years of budget deficits,
giving the central bank flexibility to lower  interest rates .  The underlying cash surplus will be A$1.54 billion ($1.55
billion) in the 12 months to June 30, 2013, the government said
May 8. Expenditures are forecast to fall to A$364.2 billion next
year, the first drop in figures dating back to 1971. The A$44.4
billion deficit this year is the third-largest on record and 3
percent of gross domestic product.  Unemployment Forecast  Gillard is under pressure to revive parts of the economy
not benefiting from the biggest mining investment boom in more
than a century. The budget papers released May 8 show the
 unemployment rate  is predicted to rise to 5.5 percent in the
next two years.  “What we can do as a government is to get fiscal policy in
the right shape to give the Reserve Bank the maximum room to
move should they choose to do so,” Gillard said in an interview
in Canberra yesterday. “That’s been one of the drivers as to
why we want to bring the budget back to surplus.”  Today’s jobs data contrasts with reports in the past month
showing the economy struggling to gain traction, with  core
inflation  slowing to a 13-year low, export and house prices
slumping, and  consumer confidence  weaker.  Bond investors’ inflation expectations touched the lowest
this year. The gap between yields on 10-year inflation-linked
bonds and benchmark government notes shrank to as little as 2.37
percentage points, the least since Nov. 10. The so-called
breakeven rate shows estimates for annual average inflation over
the lifetime of the debt.  Australian help-wanted notices dropped in April by the most
in almost a year. Jobs advertised in newspapers and on the
Internet declined 3.1 percent last month, the most since May
2011, according to an ANZ bank report this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  