-- Auto Sales Rise Puts U.S. on Pace to Best Year Since 2007
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/auto-sales-rise-puts-u-s-on-pace-to-best-year-since-2007.html
U.S.  auto sales  are on pace for the
best showing since 2007 and a third straight year of at least 10
percent gains, only the fourth such streak since the Great
Depression, as more-confident buyers return to showrooms.  Automakers are adding overnight shifts and cutting workers’
vacations to meet demand.  Sales this year may reach 14.3 million cars and light
trucks, equal to the first-quarter pace, according to estimates
from 14 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. It would be the best
full year since 16.1 million in 2007. The same analysts in
January were expecting sales this year of 13.6 million before
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and others exceeded projections.  “Even if we stay where we are, it’s a pretty good year,”
said Brian Johnson, an industry analyst at  Barclays Capital  in
 Chicago , who is predicting full-year U.S. sales of 14.4 million.  Pent-up demand, an improving economy and loosening credit
has spurred the better-than-estimated auto sales and helped
 General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC to
first quarter profits that beat analysts’ forecasts even while
deliveries fell in  Europe .  First-quarter deliveries in the U.S. ran at the strongest
pace since the same months in 2008, when sales started at an
annualized rate of 15.4 million before collapsing to a full-year
tally of 13.2 million, said  Kevin Tynan , a Bloomberg Industries
analyst based in Skillman, New Jersey.  Rebounding From Depths  Sales in the U.S. fell to 10.4 million in 2009, the lowest
since the end of the 1982 recession. They improved to 11.6
million in 2010 and 12.8 million last year.  “Part of the renaissance is related to the depths of the
downturn” that led to the bankruptcies of GM and Chrysler, said
Matt Stover, an industry analyst at Guggenheim Partners in  New
York . “There is pent-up demand and the cyclical indicators,
while still weak, are grudgingly positive and improving.”  The first quarter also benefited from mild weather and a
“rocking” equity market, Stover said. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average   rose  8.1 percent and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gained 12 percent in the first three months of the year.  Auto sales in the U.S. increased 10.3 percent through April,
matching the previous year’s gain after an 11.1 percent jump in
2010, according to Autodata Corp. in Woodcliff Lake,  New Jersey .  The last time auto sales rose more than 10 percent for
three or more years was 1971 to 1973, after an 11-month
 recession , according to data compiled by trade magazine
Automotive News. Previous streaks followed the Great Depression
and the World War II production halt, according to the data.  Companies Boost Forecasts  GM, Toyota and Ford all have increased their forecasts for
full-year industry sales. GM and Toyota see light-vehicle
deliveries rising to as much as 14.5 million, while Ford has
raised its outlook to as much as 15 million sales including
medium- and heavy-duty trucks. The low end of the automakers’
previous forecasts was about 13.5 million units.  The higher demand is spurring more shipping of raw
materials on the  Great Lakes  and helping lift rail transport of
motor vehicles and parts to the highest level since June 2008.  Twenty auto plants will operate with three shifts or three
crews of workers by the end of this year in  North America , said
Tracy Handler, an IHS Automotive analyst based in Northville,
Michigan. Only four or five factories may have operated on that
basis in 2009, she said in an e-mail.  Stronger-than-estimated demand means U.S. automakers are
curtailing annual shutdowns usually scheduled at their assembly
plants in the summer months. The breaks have been used in the
past for maintenance, renovations, tooling changes and
preparations for new model-year vehicles.  Chrysler, Ford Factories  Four Chrysler plants in  Illinois ,  Detroit ,  Ohio  and  Mexico 
will skip summer shutdown entirely this year, the company said
in a May 2 statement. Two Chrysler plants and 13 Ford factories
are shutting down for just one week instead of two.  The changes mean additional output of models spanning
automakers’ lineups, from Fiat 500 small cars to Ford Explorer
and Jeep Grand Cherokee sport-utility vehicles to Ford F-150 and
Ram 1500 pickups.  Ford is adding third crews of workers at three factories in
 Michigan , Illinois and Kentucky and a second shift in its
Missouri assembly plant by the third quarter. Those moves will
boost production capacity by 400,000 units to 3 million vehicles
on an annualized basis, the company has said.  Chrysler’s Jefferson North Assembly plant in Detroit, which
builds Grand Cherokee and Dodge Durango SUVs, is adding a third
crew and 1,100 jobs in November instead of early 2013, Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  told reporters on April 30.  Honda, Toyota Moves  Honda Motor Co.’s East Liberty, Ohio, factory has added
overtime production to meet demand for the new CR-V sport-
utility vehicle,  Ed Miller , a spokesman, said in a phone
interview.  Toyota said this week that in August it will  increase 
production of four-cylinder engines at its Georgetown,  Kentucky ,
plant that supplies models such as the Camry sedan and RAV4 SUV.
That follows output boosts announced since February to factories
in Ontario, West Virginia and Indiana for assembling RAV4 and
Highlander SUVs and six-speed transmissions.  The biggest threat to continued gains this year may be the
anemic growth in  income  because some of the strength of sales
comes from buyers’ willingness to reduce savings, Guggenheim’s
Stover said. The 12-month moving average for per capita
disposable income was up only about 0.2 percent through March,
according to the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis.  “The issue right now is the strength of sales: Are they
that durable?” Stover said. “But the likelihood of 14.1
million or above is pretty probable unless we run into a big air
pocket.”  Resilient Consumers  For now, consumers are showing resilience. Even with
gasoline  rising  to $3.94 a gallon in early April from $3.28 in
January, sales of profitable light trucks have risen. Chrysler
was the biggest gainer in full-size trucks as Ram pickup sales
rose 26 percent to 88,590, according to Autodata.  “There was hardly anyone you could talk to three years ago
that wasn’t worried sick about whether or not they were going to
have a job the next month,” Fred Diaz, president of Chrysler’s
Ram truck brand, said yesterday in an interview.  “Maybe the economy isn’t on this incredible rebound, but
there are a lot more Americans that feel like they are stable
and not in jeopardy of losing their job,” he said. “So they’re
not afraid to make a purchase that they need or want.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Green in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  