-- Daimler Battling BMW Floods Berlin With Smarts for Rent
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-05-10T23:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/autos-by-the-minute-flood-europe-with-20-fold-surge-seen-cars.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  is flooding Berlin with
Smart cars to claim a greater share of Europe’s burgeoning rent-
by-the-minute urban auto market.  The maker of Mercedes-Benz cars installed the largest fleet
of its Car2go short-term rental service in the German capital
last month, overwhelming  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s DriveNow
offerings two-to-one. The pursuit of Berlin drivers is part of a
broader effort to win over urban consumers and boost sales from
services as the allure of  car ownership  in cities wanes.  “It’s natural that competition shows up,” said Robert Henrich, Car2go’s chief. “It shows that we have the right
business idea. Our intention is clearly to remain the leader.”  Daimler and BMW are ramping up city-based services that
allow drivers to rent by the minute, tapping a growing customer
base. Car-sharing membership in  Europe  is projected to surge to
about 15 million people by 2020 from 700,000 at the end of last
year, according to consulting group  Frost & Sullivan . There were
13.6 million cars sold in the region last year.  For Daimler the Car2go service, which like DriveNow costs
29 cents a minute in Berlin, is part of a strategy to retake the
luxury-car lead from BMW by the end of the decade. Achieving the
goal rests on its success in expanding its appeal, especially
with younger drivers.  ‘Test Drive’  “Car-sharing is like a test drive that’s paid for,” said
 Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive Management
at the University of Applied Sciences in  Bergisch Gladbach ,
 Germany . “It offers a chance to open the door to customers that
might not have considered a car and helps the image.”  Car-sharing has gained appeal with middle-class consumers
like Julia Zabel. The 43-year-old engineer sold her Audi A4 in
2009 after moving to Berlin’s Friedenau neighborhood, where
public transport is plentiful among the pre-war apartment
buildings and parking is not.  “We’re so well-connected here with the train and buses
that my husband and I decided it didn’t make sense,” Zabel
said. “We don’t see any need to own a car as long as we live so
central.”  She signed up for DriveNow in November to help with
shopping and make ferrying around her four-year-old son more
comfortable during Berlin’s cold, wet winter weather.  “The auto manufacturers are targeting mobility services as
congestion, ownership costs and changing attitudes toward cars
slow sales growth in mature markets like Europe and North
America,” said Vishwas Shankar, an automotive and
transportation analyst at Frost & Sullivan, who is based in
 Chennai ,  India . “They’re building for the future.”  BMW Response  After Daimler started up the Car2go service in Ulm in
southern Germany in 2008, BMW responded last year with DriveNow,
a joint venture with rental company  Sixt AG. (SIX2)  The Munich-based
company plans to overtake Daimler in services, matching the top
position it has held in luxury-auto sales since 2005. BMW sold
1.67 million cars last year, outpacing the 1.38 million
deliveries of Smart and Mercedes models.  “Our vision remains clear: to be the leading provider of
premium products and premium services for individual mobility,”
BMW Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said last week.  BMW’s DriveNow, which also operates in Munich and
Dusseldorf, has a lot of catching up to do. Car2go has expanded
to 12 cities, including electric-vehicle fleets in Amsterdam and
 San Diego , and plans to add an average of one a month this year
to expand to 20 markets in Europe and  North America , where it
will compete with the likes of Zipcar Inc. The Daimler startup,
which intends to break even in two years, targets 50 cities in
Europe and 30 in North America by 2016, Henrich said. Car2go has
85,000 customers to DriveNow’s 27,000.  Swamping Minis  Both services differ from station-based car-sharing by
allowing customers to start and end a rental anywhere in the
service area, making one-way trips the norm. The cars are
accessed and tracked electronically.  The head-to-head matchup in Berlin marks a key test of
Car2go’s ability to retain its lead. The Daimler unit is being
aggressive. Car2go’s 1,000 white-and-blue Smart cars, which
rivals Paris’s Autolib’ as the world’s largest car-sharing
fleet, swamp DriveNow’s 500 BMW and Mini vehicles. Car2go’s
service area of 250 square kilometers (97 square miles) is also
more than double DriveNow’s 120 square kilometers, even after an
expansion following its rival’s rollout.  The availability of cars and the big business area won over
Jan Preiss. The 40-year-old doctor signed up for the service to
get to the hospital where he works and avoid the hassle of
parking his 1997 Mercedes E-Class on Berlin’s crowded streets.
His membership marks a return to car-sharing after getting the
vehicle as a gift.  Parking Burden  “The Mercedes is always hard to park,” said his wife,
Kim, who chiefly uses public transport to shuttle around with
her three kids. “Every day we’re thinking of selling it.
There’s plenty of Car2go cars in our neighborhood.”  Car2go’s focus on the two-seat Smart may ultimately limit
the service’s appeal. BMW has an array of sportier four-seat
vehicles, ranging from the Mini convertible to the BMW 1-Series
hatchback and X1 compact sport-utility vehicle.  “Car-sharing also has to be cool,” said Michael Fischer,
spokesman for DriveNow in Berlin. “Car-sharing was a niche,
green service. We want to be sustainable, but lifestyle is also
important.”  DriveNow has about 9,500 members in Berlin and sees
potential to grow to 80,000 in the next two to three years, said
Fischer. Globally, the service has the ambition of signing up 1
million customers by 2020. The first non-German city will
probably be added later this year, he said.  Because of the Smart’s lack of space, Car2go probably won’t
be an option for DriveNow-user Zabel.  “The Smart’s very small,” she said. “You can’t take a
lot with you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  