-- Avon on Brink of Junk-Grade Ratings at Fitch, S&P
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-05-10T21:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/avon-on-brink-of-junk-grade-ratings-at-fitch-s-p.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  is on the brink of
losing its investment-grade ratings at Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings because of potential debt tied to Coty Inc.’s bid
for the company and weaker-than-expected first-quarter earnings.  Avon, with about $3.3 billion of debt, had its BBB- credit
grade placed on “negative” watch today by Grace Barnett, a
Fitch analyst, who said in a note that if Coty’s $10.7 billion
bid is accepted and financed “with significant amounts of
debt,” the new entity won’t merit investment-grade status. S&P
cut New York-based Avon one grade to BBB- yesterday and
maintained its “negative” outlook, according to a note.  Coty raised its offer for Avon today to about $10.7 billion
and said  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  will provide
equity financing for the deal. The deal would add a new door-to-
door distribution channel for Coty’s cosmetics and more than
twice its $4.5 billion in annual sales. Avon rejected the
perfume-maker’s bid last month, saying it undervalued the
company and that it was working on a turnaround. Today, Avon
said it will consider Coty’s letter “in due course.”  In Avon’s favor, Coty has said it wants to keep the
combined company investment grade, and Berkshire’s involvement
“certainly supports the concept of trying to be investment
grade because they don’t typically invest in highly levered
companies,” Barnett, who’s based in New York, said in a
telephone interview today.  Avon  has been  ranked investment grade by S&P and Fitch for
at least a decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Moody’s Investors Service rates Avon as A3 with a “negative”
outlook.  ‘To Its Knees’  Buffett  warned against  the risks of leverage in his 2010
annual letter to shareholders, saying “even a short absence of
credit can bring a company to its knees.”  “Companies with large debts often assume that these
obligations can be refinanced as they mature,” Buffett wrote.
“That assumption is usually valid. Occasionally, though, either
because of company-specific problems or a worldwide shortage of
credit, maturities must actually be met by payment. For that,
only cash will do the job.”  Avon’s $500 million of 5.625 percent senior unsecured notes
due in March 2014, the most actively traded of the company’s
outstanding debt today, fell 0.2 cent to 104.25 cents on the
dollar to yield 3.17 percent at 11:09 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The acquisition by Coty may require $9 billion of debt and
$5 billion of equity, according to Fitch. To maintain
investment-grade status, the equity component would need to
increase to the $8 billion range, or the company may offer “a
rapid and credible deleveraging plan,” Barnett said in today’s
note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  