-- Banerjee Leads Rebellion Within Indian Coalition Against Singh
-- B y   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e   a n d   A r i j i t   G h o s h
-- 2012-05-10T18:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/banerjee-leads-rebellion-within-indian-coalition-against-singh.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
may be wondering why he needs enemies when his biggest ally is
 Mamata Banerjee .  After ending a generation of communist rule in India’s West
Bengal state a year ago, Banerjee has emerged a more strident
critic of the federal coalition she’s part of than her Marxist
arch-rivals. Singh’s plans to allow foreign investment in
supermarkets and airlines fell to Banerjee’s hatchet, while
proposed increases in prices of fuels and rail tickets were
jettisoned as she protested on behalf of the poor.  Banerjee, whose growing political clout drew a visit from
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in Kolkata this week,
exemplifies the rise of intractable allies in India’s ruling
alliance as they shape decisions to advance provincial
ambitions. Singh’s  Congress party , damaged by corruption
allegations and policy reversals, has two years until
parliamentary elections in 2014 to rein them in.  “She has taken a  wrecking ball  to the government’s agenda
over the last year and her confidence is growing the more she
gets her own way,” said  Samir Arora , founder of Singapore-based
hedge fund Helios Capital Management Pte, which focuses its
investments on India. “Mamata is the single biggest obstacle to
reforms in India today.”  A single act of defiance by Banerjee and her All India
Trinamool Congress party over higher fuel costs stymied efforts
to reduce $8 billion of subsidies that contribute to the widest
 budget deficit  among major emerging economies. India’s gross
domestic product expanded 6.9 percent in the year to March 31,
the slowest pace since 2009, according to government estimates.  ‘Throwing Weight’  “Banerjee has thrown her weight around and has been able
to exploit a very weak government,” said Mohan Guruswamy,
chairman of the Centre for Policy Alternatives in  New Delhi  and
a former Finance Ministry adviser. “She’s populist and latches
on to issues where other regional parties will give her their
backing.” That supplies Banerjee with the power to sway policy
despite her party having just 19 of the 545 seats in
parliament’s lower house, Guruswamy said.  B.G. Verghese, a former aide to ex-Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, said Singh is partly to blame for the state of his
fractious ruling alliance.  The rise of regional leaders “is something that is here to
stay and the national parties have to get used to it,”
Verghese, a New Delhi-based commentator with the Centre for
Policy Research, said by phone May 3. “Congress has performed
poorly at winning over its partners.”  Strike Action  Singh’s second-largest ally -- the Dravida Munnetra
Kazhagam, from the southern state of  Tamil Nadu  -- persuaded the
government to back a United Nations resolution against neighbor
 Sri Lanka  in March. Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar , who’s also the
leader of the Nationalist Congress Party, last month prompted a
reversal of a plan to ban cotton exports.  Banerjee’s office didn’t respond to repeated requests for
an interview with Bloomberg News.  Born  in Kolkata, Banerjee joined politics while at college
in the 1970s and was first elected to  India ’s national
parliament for the Congress party in 1984 from West Bengal,
after which she helped lead the party’s youth wing.  Banerjee, who claims to be five years younger than her
official age of 57, suffered head injuries when members of a
communist militia attacked her during a rally in 1990. Vision in
her right eye was damaged in a 1996 assault, according to her
autobiography.  Poet, Painter  A part-time painter and poet, Banerjee formed  Trinamool  in
1997 after resigning from Congress, saying the party was too
close to the Marxists. She aligned Trinamool, whose name means
grassroots, with the then ruling  Bharatiya Janata Party  from
1999 before switching to join Singh’s coalition elected five
years later.  Riding to power last year on a wave of anger over the
failure of the communist alliance to create jobs in West Bengal
-- Trinamool won 184 seats in the 294-member assembly, six times
the 30 it secured in 2006 -- Banerjee has won plaudits for
ending a culture of labor disputes that took hold under the
communists.  Shutdowns and ideological confrontations curbed development
in a state that, according to a University of Oxford study in
2010, accounts for the country’s third-largest number of people
living in poverty.  “She has sent a signal that she is not for strikes and
that’s a very positive move,” said Abhirup Sarkar, an economics
professor at the Indian Statistical Institute in Kolkata.
“Businesses used to be afraid to come to the state. Not
anymore.”  Infosys Unhappy  Her achievements haven’t been enough to win over some
investors.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , India’s No. 2 software exporter, has
suspended plans for a 5 billion rupee ($94 million) campus in
Kolkata, it said in an e-mail without elaborating. Banerjee, who
last year opposed setting up special economic zones, refused to
allow  Jai Balaji Industries Ltd. (JBIL)  to acquire more land for a
steel plant, the Times of India reported Feb. 16.  “While the government has taken some positive steps such
as ensuring power supply, the to-do list is longer,” P. Roy,
director general of the  Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry ,
said in an interview.  While Banerjee and her fellow chief ministers fight their
corners,  Standard & Poor’s  on April 25 warned that India is at
risk of losing its investment-grade rating as political
stalemate hampers policy making. A downgrade to junk may spark a
sell-off in the nation’s stocks and bonds by foreign investors,
according to D.H. Pai Panandiker, president of RPG Foundation, a
New Delhi-based economic policy group. “It’s a very scary
thought,” he said.  Record Low  The rupee has dropped 16.3 percent in the past year making
it the worst performing of 11 Asian currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The rupee, which fell to a record low of 54.3050 on
Dec. 15, gained 0.8 percent to 53.42 in  Mumbai  yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark  Sensex
stock index  has declined 11 percent from the Feb. 21 high.  Banerjee’s meeting with Clinton, in India for security and
investment talks with Singh’s government, took place 48 hours
after she carried out her latest mini-rebellion: helping derail
the government’s plans for a national counter-terrorism center,
arguing its powers would usurp those of state police forces.  Clad in her trademark white cotton sari, Banerjee and
Trinamool Congress formed the government in West Bengal last May
pledging poriborton, or change in Bengali, after decades of
communist rule.  ‘Slave or Enemy’  Instead, Banerjee, known to her supporters as didi, or
elder sister, and who still lives in a small house in the narrow
lanes of Kolkata, has spent the last 12 months erasing memories
of the Marxists and fostering an atmosphere that brooks no
dissent, according to Kabir Suman, a Trinamool lawmaker who has
turned against the party’s leader.  “She can’t countenance any opposition,” Suman, a
 musician , said in Kolkata May 3. “You can either be her slave
or her enemy. You can’t oppose her.”  Ambikesh Mahapatra, a Kolkata chemistry professor and
communist supporter, says he has witnessed that firsthand.  After signing into his e-mail account last month, Mahapatra
forwarded an  illustration  lampooning Banerjee, a spoof on a
Bengali film poking fun at her dismissal of a fellow Trinamool
lawmaker from his job as rail minister. A week later, the
academic was begging for his life as Trinamool supporters
assaulted him. He spent most of that night in jail charged with
making obscene gestures to a woman and defamation.  “It’s intolerance on part of the government,” Mahapatra
said in an interview in Kolkata’s Jadavpur University where he
teaches. “I didn’t make the graphic. I didn’t insert comments
or distort it. I only forwarded it to my friends just to share a
joke.”  Red to Blue  “She’s very strict about discipline,” said Shuvaprasanna
Bhattacharya, appointed by Banerjee to a management role at
 Indian Railways , a network the Trinamool leader ran as rail
minister from 2009 to 2011. “People are scared of her only when
they do something wrong.”  Buildings and road dividers in Kolkata, previously dotted
with red hammer-and-sickle motifs, have been painted sky-blue on
Banerjee’s orders. After deadly clashes between her party and
communists, Trinamool barred members from mingling with the
enemy, state Food Minister Jyotipriya Mallick said April 30 in
his freshly-painted ministry building.  Banerjee built her support in 2008 by spearheading a
campaign demanding  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  abandon a facility to build
the Nano small car in Singur, about 90 minutes’ drive outside
Kolkata, and return land to farmers she said had been cheated.  Time 100  “She can read the pulse of the people,” said West Bengal
Industry Minister Partha Chatterjee, citing Singur and
Nandigram, where Banerjee led protests against a proposal by
 Indonesia ’s Anthoni Salim to build a petrochemical complex. The
agitation in Nandigram led to the deaths of 14 people.  “We are not opposed to industrialization but we need a
balance,” Chatterjee said, citing approval for  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) ’s
$3 billion project in the state. Banerjee’s government is trying
to improve West Bengal’s “work culture,” plagued by sudden
strikes, he said in his office in the 18th-century Writers’
Building, the state’s power center.  In the meantime, Banerjee, named in Time magazine’s 2012
list of the world’s 100 most influential people, is demanding
Singh’s government reschedule payments on $40 billion of loans,
the biggest debt burden among 17 of the country’s largest
provinces.  “Even though Banerjee is now in power, she is stuck in her
old opposition role, criticizing everything,” Helios Capital’s
Arora said. “She’s not willing to negotiate, she has a
viewpoint and that’s it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pradipta Mukherjee in Kolkata at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net ;
Arijit Ghosh in Mumbai at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  