-- Bank of Korea Holds Rate for 11th Month on European Woes
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-05-10T03:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/bank-of-korea-holds-rate-for-11th-month-on-european-woes.html
The Bank of  Korea  held off from
altering borrowing costs for an 11th straight month after
inflation eased and policy makers cut their forecasts for
economic growth.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board kept the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  at 3.25 percent as predicted by all 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Europe’s financial turmoil is reigniting on the second
anniversary of policy makers’ first attempt to prevent  Greece ’s
fiscal woes from turning toxic. While South Korea’s economy
expanded at the fastest pace in a year last quarter, Kim said
today that growth has slowed on weakness in consumption and
investment.  “The BOK will likely stay put for an extended time,” said
Kim Nam Hyun, a Seoul-based fixed income analyst at Eugene
Investment & Futures. “That’s the best thing it can do now to
support growth and contain inflation at the same time.”  Kim said today’s decision was unanimous and officials
didn’t discuss a cut as they seek to “normalize” rates,
indicating they don’t yet see  Europe ’s woes derailing growth.
Europe is in a “mild recession” and the global economy will
have a modest recovery, Kim said.  Government bonds  declined after Kim’s remarks, with the
yield on the benchmark  three-year bond  climbing four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.41 percent as of 11:48
a.m. in  Seoul , Korea Exchange prices show. The won held a
decline, weakening 0.2 percent to 1,142.38 per dollar, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Moderate Growth  “The Korean economy is expected to maintain a moderate
trend of growth for the time being, influenced by the global
economic slowdown particularly in the euro area,” the BOK said
in an English-language statement. “In terms of upside and
downside risks to the future growth path, the downside remain
significant.”  Monetary policy  will focus on stabilizing consumer-price
inflation at the midpoint of the target of between 2 percent and
4 percent over the medium-term, according to the statement.
Policy makers cited elevated inflation expectations and oil
prices as risks.  Separately, the government said today that it will ease
lending regulations for people purchasing homes in three parts
of southern Seoul, the latest step to support the nation’s
housing market after declines in prices and sales.  European Worries  The 17-nation euro area is on the verge of losing one of
its members, with more than 50 percent of investors predicting
an exit this year, according to the Bloomberg Global Poll. As
Greece faces political paralysis and voters balk at austerity,
57 percent of 1,253 investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers said at least one country will abandon the
euro by year-end.  The  Bank of Korea  reduced its 2012 growth forecast for the
country to 3.5 percent from 3.7 percent on April 16.  South Korea should raise  interest rates  once economic
uncertainty ebbs and allow the won to appreciate to counter
inflation pressures, the  Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development  recommended on April 26. The Paris-based
organization projected that  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy will
expand 3.5 percent this year and about 4.3 percent in 2013.  “Korea is very well prepared to resist or face any
unexpected shock” stemming from global uncertainty,  Angel Gurria , the secretary general of the OECD, said in Seoul.  Inflation moderated to a 21-month low of 2.5 percent in
April. Consumer-price gains were trimmed by government subsidies
for childcare and an expanded free school lunch program starting
in March. Producer-price inflation cooled to the slowest pace in
26 months.  Consumer Confidence  In contrast with the turmoil in Europe,  consumer confidence 
in  South Korea  rose to the highest level in almost a year last
month while manufacturers’ confidence for May was also elevated.  Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s largest carmaker, reported
last month that net income climbed 31 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, exceeding analysts’ estimates,
helped by sales of the Elantra sedan and i20 subcompact in
Europe and the U.S.  Samsung Electronics Co. posted a record operating profit in
the first quarter as gains from selling phones and TVs helped
mask a slump in earnings at the chip business.  Today’s rate decision was the first for four new board
members, who joined the Bank of Korea’s policy-making committee
late April. They look “more dovish” than their predecessors,
judging from their backgrounds, according to Kwon Young Sun, a
Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  The new monetary policy makers are former  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) 
President Chung Soon Won, Seoul National University professor
Moon Woo Sik, former Planning and Budget Ministry official Chung Hae Bang, and Yonsei University professor Ha Sung Keun.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  