-- Bank Foreign Branches Said to Face Tougher U.S. Swaps Rules
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-05-10T17:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/bank-foreign-branches-said-to-face-tougher-u-s-swaps-rules.html
The main U.S. swaps regulator may
determine how much of a bank’s foreign trading activity will be
subject to regulation under the Dodd-Frank Act based on whether
the firm conducts the trades from branches or affiliates,
according to people familiar with the discussions.  Gary Gensler , chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, may recommend to his fellow commissioners that
regulators use the legal distinction between a branch and an
affiliate as the basis for applying new derivatives rules to
U.S. banks’ overseas trades with foreign customers, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the discussions are
private.  Branches would face more restrictions because they are
legally part of the U.S. banking entity, the people said.
Affiliates are often separately capitalized and could be
overseen by overseas regulators if the agency considers the
foreign country’s regulatory regime comparable, they said.  The debate over the reach of the U.S. financial-overhaul
law is one of the most contentious aspects of the effort to
bolster oversight of the  derivatives market . The commission is
seeking to prevent a repeat of the takeover of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , which was seized by the U.S.
government in 2008 after its London-based unit sold credit-
default swaps on mortgage-backed securities with little U.S.
oversight.  Foreign Rivals  U.S. banks have said that Dodd-Frank rules will hurt their
ability to compete with foreign-based rivals if the rules are
applied to overseas offices. Banking lobbyists have argued that
foreign supervision of their overseas arms and Federal Reserve
oversight of the U.S. holding companies is sufficient to protect
against risk to the financial system.  “These are international markets so the reach of Dodd
Frank will have a very big impact on how the banks and their
customers fare under these regulations,” said Craig Pirrong, a
finance professor at the  University of Houston . European and
Asian regulatory decisions will be important to the final shape
of the rules, Pirrong added.  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment. The
CFTC will release its decision as proposed interpretive
guidance, which will go through a public-comment period before a
final vote is required to pass the measures, the people said.
Gensler has been working with CFTC staff on the proposal and is
close to sharing it with the four other commissioners, one of
the people said.  Different Structures  The five largest U.S. financial firms organize their
overseas operations differently.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  conduct foreign swaps trading
through branches, according to bank representatives. Morgan
Stanley operates most of its overseas trading through
affiliates, according to a person familiar with the situation.
 Michael DuVally , a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  spokesman, refused
to say how the bank conducts its overseas swaps business.  Those five banking holding companies account for 95 percent
of the $304 trillion in notional amount in the American market,
 according  to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
Globally, the notional amount of over-the-counter derivatives is
estimated at  $708 trillion , according to the  Bank for
International Settlements  in  Basel ,  Switzerland .  Citigroup’s “foreign activity is conducted through a
combination of branches and affiliates,” Scott Helfman, a
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. He declined to comment
on the CFTC debate.  Justin Perras , a JPMorgan spokesman, DuVally
of Goldman Sachs, John Yiannacopoulos, a Bank of America
spokesman, and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Mary Claire Delaney declined to
comment.  Branches versus Affiliates  Pirrong said the distinction between branches and
affiliates could be a challenge to implement.  “There’s a continuum of relationships between affiliates
and parent,” Pirrong said, referring to parent companies.
“Drawing bright lines between them is difficult.”  Global regulators have been meeting to reach consensus on
new standards for clearing, capital and margin for derivatives
in an effort to prevent banks from exploiting regulatory
differences. Gensler said May 2 that the CFTC may institute a
system of so-called substituted compliance, in which U.S.
regulators would determine if overseas rules are sufficient to
comply with Dodd-Frank. If an overseas jurisdiction doesn’t have
comparable regulation, the CFTC wouldn’t allow the substituted
compliance, Gensler said at the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association Inc.’s annual meeting.  ‘Skirting’ the Law  “If your question is, ‘Can two U.S. parties go to some
jurisdiction that doesn’t have an execution requirement to skirt
around the law,’ then the answer would be no -- until you find
good lawyers to skirt around it,” he said.  A related question to how U.S. bank affiliates would fare
under Dodd Frank involves what parts of the law to apply to
their activity, the people said. Gensler is considering two
options, they said.  The first option would be to apply the rules meant for
bank-holding companies, such as capital that must be set aside
against the size of the swaps-trading portfolio, the people
said. The second option would be to apply transaction rules,
including requirements that most swaps must be processed with
clearinghouses which require margin to back the trades and be
traded on exchanges or similar electronic systems, they said.  In March, the House Financial Services Committee approved a
bill that would limit the CFTC’s ability to apply its rules to
foreign-based arms of U.S. banks when trading with overseas
clients. The House has yet to schedule a vote, and the Senate
hasn’t considered similar legislation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 