-- Batista’s MMX Quarterly Profit Misses After Rains Harmed Sales
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-05-10T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/batista-s-mmx-quarterly-profit-misses-after-rains-harmed-sales.html
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3) , the
mining company controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , said
first-quarter profit fell 23 percent, missing analysts’
estimates, after rain in  Brazil  curbed sales.  Net income dropped to 49.3 million reais ($25 million) from
63.8 million reais a  year  earlier, Rio de Janeiro-based MMX said
in a regulatory filing late yesterday. MMX was expected to post
profit of 54 million reais, excluding some items, according to
the average of five analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  MMX’s iron-ore output declined 23 percent to 1.55 million
metric tons in the quarter while sales volumes dropped 13
percent to 1.4 million metric tons, the company said. Gross
revenues dropped 13 percent to 169.7 million reais, it said.  “At the beginning of this year, MMX operations and sales
were seriously affected by natural phenomena, especially heavy
rains, which interfered with our industrial operations,” MMX
Chief Executive Officer Guilherme Escalhao said in the
statement. “We are already working to reverse the loss of the
first quarter production along 2012.”  Brazilian  iron-ore export volumes  fell 20 percent in
January as heavy rain in the country’s southeastern region
hindered mining operations. Rio de Janeiro-based Vale SA, the
world’s largest iron-ore producer, on April 25 reported its third
consecutive drop in quarterly profit after rain cut production,
raised costs and prices declined.  Iron-Ore Prices  Iron-ore prices averaged $141.80 per ton during the first
quarter, 20 percent less than the previous year, on concern that
demand is slowing from  China , the biggest user of the
steelmaking ingredient. The price of ore with 62 percent iron
for  immediate delivery  to the Chinese port of Tianjin fell 1
percent to $141.30 a ton yesterday, according to a  price index 
compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  MMX’s quarterly results are “highly volatile” as the
company is still in a small-scale phase before expanding its
projects, Raphael Biderman and Alan Glezer, analysts at Banco
Bradesco BBI SA in  Sao Paulo , said in a research note May 2.  “This makes the company more vulnerable to extraordinary
effects, such as the first quarter’s heavy rains,” they said.
“What matters the most for MMX are not the earnings results,
but signs that the project is making progress.”  MMX said April 26 it  received  a license to start expanding
its flagship Serra Azul development to 29 million metric tons
per year, more than tripling capacity, as it seeks to increase
overseas sales. The company will spend 4.8 billion reais on the
expansion, which will take about 24 months, it said.  MMX rose 4 percent to close at 8.34 reais in Sao Paulo
yesterday. The stock has  risen  25 percent this year, more than
the 5.3 percent gain in the Brazilian benchmark Bovespa  index .  The earnings report was released after regular market
trading in Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  