-- Bernanke Speaks About Risks From End of Pro-Growth Plans
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n ,   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-05-10T19:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/bernanke-speaks-about-risks-from-end-of-pro-growth-plans.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  spoke to a group of senators today about the potential
harm to the economy from the expiration of several pro-growth
policies, according to senators who attended the meeting.  Bernanke discussed the scheduled end of programs including
the Bush tax cuts, the payroll tax holiday and extended
 unemployment benefits , as well as budget cuts that are set to
take effect in January of 2013, said  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota
Democrat.  “It’s clear to all of us and he stressed that if all of
these things occur it could drive us back into a worse
recession,” said  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the chamber’s No.
2 Democrat, after the meeting. “The sooner we can resolve these
issues, the more likely we are to give confidence to consumers
and investors across America.”  Bernanke has warned before of a possible setback to growth
from the expiration of tax cuts and reductions in federal
spending. The policy changes could more than offset the
economy’s progress in recovering from the longest recession
since the Great Depression, he said in an April 25 press
conference.  “If no action were to be taken by the fiscal authorities,
the size of the fiscal cliff is” so large that there’s
“absolutely no chance that the  Federal Reserve  would have any
ability whatsoever to offset that effect on the economy,”
Bernanke said.  Durbin said Bernanke was “careful not to get into the
politics of any specific” policy. “But I don’t think there’s
anyone who quarrels with his premise,” Durbin said.  Signs of Improvement  The Fed’s concerns about potential government cuts come as
labor and housing markets have shown signs of improvement.
Growth should “pick up gradually,” Bernanke and his colleagues
on the Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement after
their April 24-25 meeting. The committee renewed its plans to
keep  interest rates  near zero through at least late 2014.  That meeting occurred before a May 4 report from the Labor
Department showed the economy added 115,000 jobs in April, less
than the 160,000 median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
85 economists. The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.1 percent, the
lowest since January 2009.  The slowdown in job gains followed data showing the pace of
economic expansion cooled in the first quarter, prompting
concerns that another pickup in growth may be sputtering.  Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat, said Bernanke told
lawmakers that there is good progress on the economy. The Fed
chairman noted a 1 percentage point drop in the unemployment
rate in the last nine months, and he pointed out that  oil prices 
are down and could decline more over the summer.  ‘Getting Better’  “Things are getting better, it’s just going to take some
time,” Harkin said. “He thinks we’re making steady progress.”  Stocks have fallen as U.S. growth appeared weaker and as
fears rose about Europe’s ability to contain the continent’s
debt crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has fallen 4.1
percent since reaching its highest level of the year on April 2.
Stocks rose 0.3 percent to 1,359.19 at 3:35 p.m. in  New York .  Bernanke also warned against taking steps on policy that
might undermine  consumer confidence , Harkin said. The Fed
chairman said it’s important to keep momentum at this time,
according to Harkin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 