-- Bernanke Gets 75% Approval From Investors in Global Poll
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-05-10T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/bernanke-gets-75-approval-from-investors-in-global-poll.html
Global investors give Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  his highest approval rating since 2009
and expect him to take further action this year to accelerate a
revival in the U.S. economy and financial markets.  Bernanke, whom Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said he wouldn’t reappoint for running too lax a monetary
policy, receives a favorable assessment from three of four of
those surveyed in the latest Bloomberg Global Poll. Respondents
to the survey of investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers also rate U.S. financial markets highly:
46 percent say they will be among the best performers over the
next year, double the percentage that select  China , in second
place.  “There is no other choice than the U.S.,” Kenichi
Katsuhara, a poll participant and credit default swap trader
with Aozora Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo , says in an e-mail. “Companies
in the U.S. are chugging along” while consumers could benefit
from a “drop in commodity prices.”  More investors expect  oil prices  to fall over the next six
months than to rise, 35 percent to 31 percent, the first time
that’s been the case since September. Respondents also are the
most bullish on the  U.S. dollar  since September, when they were
first asked about their investment intentions regarding the
greenback. Close to two in five say they are adding to their
dollar positions, while only about one in 10 are reducing them.  The IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which
measures the dollar against six major currencies, rose for an
eighth day yesterday, its longest such streak since September,
2008. Oil prices fell in New York for a sixth day, the longest
stretch of declines in almost two years.  Fed Gets Credit  The Fed gets a lot of credit from investors for its
handling of the  U.S. economy , based on the poll. Four in five
say the Fed has done a better job in handling the problems
facing the U.S. economy than the  European Central Bank  has had
in coping with its region’s troubles.  The financial crisis in  Europe  is seen as a “high threat”
to the global economy over the next year, according to more than
half of those polled.  More than three in five investors identify the European
Union as among the worst-performing markets over the next year.
That’s up from less than half who said that in the last survey
in January and is the poorest rating for any market since the
poll began asking that question in October 2009.  The latest survey of 1,253 Bloomberg customers was
conducted May 8, in the wake of elections in France and  Greece 
that saw the incumbent parties lose out in a backlash by voters
against budgetary belt-tightening.  ‘Risk of Contagion’  “Protests against austerity measures are spreading fast,”
Lionel Mellul, a poll participant and co-founder and chief
executive officer of Momentum Trading Partners in  New York , says
in an e-mail. “The risk of contagion will soon resurface,
increasing the spread in terms of performance between the U.S.
and Europe.”  More than two in five polled say the U.S. economy is
improving. While that’s down from half who said that in January,
it’s still markedly better than the euro region’s economy, which
more than four in five describe as “deteriorating.”  U.S. economic growth decelerated to an annualized rate of
2.2 percent in the first quarter from 3 percent in the final
three months of last year. Payrolls rose by an average of about
135,000 over the last two months compared with more than 252,000
in the three months prior.  The slowdown hasn’t heightened concerns of a double-dip of
the economy, according to the poll. Less than one in five expect
the U.S. to relapse into recession this year, about the same who
said that in January. In September of last year, half of
investors foresaw a renewed economic decline.  Operation Twist  More than three in five of those polled expect the Fed to
take more action to aid the economy after its “Operation
Twist” program expires in June.  “Bernanke gives clear guidance that he will print more
money anytime if there’s risk to the current economic
recovery,” Rachel Chan, who took part in the survey and handles
institutional equity sales at Argonaut Securities  Asia  in Hong
Kong, says in an e-mail.  About two in five anticipate the central bank will adopt a
similar strategy to “Twist,” which sought to reduce long-term
 interest rates  without increasing the Fed’s balance sheet. About
one in five believe it will embark on a third round of large-
scale asset purchases, otherwise known as QE3.  A decision by the Fed to buy more debt is “getting
closer,”  Bill Gross , co-chief investment officer at Pacific
Investment Management Co., wrote on Twitter this week. Newport,
California-based PIMCO manages the world’s largest bond fund.  Low Interest Rates  Bernanke told reporters last month that central bankers
“remain prepared to do more” if economic conditions worsen.
The Fed also has said that it anticipates keeping short-term
interest rates at “exceptionally low levels” at least through
late 2014.  More than half of investors expect the central bank to
raise  interest rates  before then, according to the poll. One
quarter, though, don’t see it tightening credit until after
2014.  Bernanke’s 75 percent approval rating is the highest since
the Bloomberg quarterly poll began in July 2009 and is nine
percentage points above ECB President Mario Draghi’s. The Fed
chief’s support is broad-based, with poll respondents in the
U.S., Europe and Asia all giving him high marks.  His standing in the financial markets contrasts with the
pasting he’s received from Republicans on the presidential
campaign trail. Texas Congressman  Ron Paul  vowed to end the Fed
while former House of Representatives Speaker  Newt Gingrich 
promised to fire Bernanke. Romney, the presumptive nominee after
most of his rivals dropped out of the race, has said he won’t
reappoint the Fed chief when his term runs out in January 2014.  Krugman Versus Bernanke  Investors by more than two to one also side with Bernanke
in the disagreement with his former Princeton University
colleague  Paul Krugman  over the appropriate stance of monetary
policy.  Krugman, who also writes a column for The New York Times
newspaper, has criticized Bernanke for not doing more to bring
down unemployment and has argued the central bank should
tolerate higher inflation. Former Princeton University professor
Bernanke has suggested such a policy would be “reckless.”  U.S. investors are more concerned about fiscal gridlock in
 Washington  than their counterparts in Europe and Asia. More than
one in three U.S. respondents describe it as a high threat to
the global economy, compared with less than one in five
Europeans and Asians who believe that.  The U.S. faces a potential budget crunch at the end of the
year, when some $450 billion worth of tax increases and spending
cuts are slated to kick in unless Congress takes action to block
them.  Asset of Choice  The risks of a global recession this year have diminished
since January, according to the poll. Close to three in four say
the world will avoid an economic contraction in 2012, up from
two in three who said that at the beginning of the year.  Stocks are still seen as the asset of choice by global
investors, though they have tempered their enthusiasm for
equities since the last quarterly poll. About two in five say
stocks will offer the highest returns over the next year, down
from 46 percent who thought that in January.  U.S. shares are more likely to rise over the next six
months than European or Asian equities, according to the latest
survey. About half of investors see the Standard & Poor’s 500
 Index (DXY)  rising during the next half year. The stock gauge stood at
1,354.58 at 4 p.m. in New York yesterday.  “We see growing political uncertainty elsewhere and a
deteriorating business operation environment in  developing
countries ,” Chan says. “Things in the U.S. are more certain
given that more than 70 percent of companies reported upbeat
earnings in the last results season.”  Real Estate Revival  Even the depressed U.S. real estate market may be starting
to revive, the poll results suggest. One third of those
contacted see  house prices  rising over the next six months,
while less than one in five see them falling.  Twelve percent of investors identify real estate as the
asset class that will offer the best return over the next year,
double the percentage who said that in January.  Investors once again single out bonds as the asset class
that will do worst over the coming year, though they are not as
sour on them as they were in January. One third in the latest
poll say bonds will perform poorest, down from about two in five
who said that previously.  The Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted by Selzer & Co., a
Des Moines, Iowa-based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or
minus 2.8 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  