-- Bernanke Says Stronger Banks Must Still Improve Liquidity
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J o s h   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-05-10T19:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/bernanke-says-stronger-banks-must-still-improve-liquidity.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. banking system is stronger and more
resilient while still facing challenges on  credit quality  and
liquidity.  “Banks still have more to do to restore their health and
adapt to the post-crisis regulatory and economic environment,”
Bernanke said today in a speech at the Chicago Fed’s annual
conference on banks. As the economic expansion proceeds, “a
financially stronger banking system will be well positioned to
expand its lending.”  Some large firms still face “challenges on the liquidity
front” as they rely heavily on wholesale short-term funding, he
said, and as government guarantees on some of their  liabilities 
expire. Loan delinquency rates on credit-backed by commercial
and residential real estate “remain elevated.”  The Fed has tightened bank oversight and stepped up its
research on financial risk in the aftermath of the 2008-2009
credit crisis, which plunged the U.S. into the worst recession
since the Great Depression and cost 8.8 million Americans their
jobs. Bankers, including JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon , have told the Fed that oversight is too
stringent and limits profitability.  Taxpayer-Funded Bailouts  The Fed is enacting rules aimed at boosting the capital of
the largest financial institutions as required under the Dodd-
Frank Act, the most sweeping overhaul of financial regulation
since the 1930s. The Dodd-Frank law is aimed in part at ending
taxpayer-funded bailouts. Bernanke didn’t speak about the
central bank’s capital policies in today’s remarks, and he
didn’t discuss monetary policy or the economic outlook.  The largest 19 banking institutions have increased their
Tier 1 common equity to nearly $760 billion, an increase of more
than $300 billion since 2009. Tier 1 common equity is “the best
buffer against future losses,” Bernanke said.  “The Tier 1 common ratio for these firms, which compares
this high-quality capital to risk-weighted assets, stood at 10.5
percent at the end of last year,” Bernanke said.  Bernanke cited the central bank’s 2012 stress tests showing
that 15 out of the 19 banks, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
JPMorgan and Bank of America Corp., would be able to maintain
capital levels above a regulatory minimum in an “extremely
adverse” economic scenario, even while continuing to pay
dividends and repurchasing stock.  Closed-Door Meeting  JPMorgan’s Dimon led Wall Street bosses in a closed-door
meeting last week to lobby the Fed about softening proposed
reforms that might crimp their profits.  The contingent, which included Bank of America’s  Brian T. Moynihan  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Lloyd C. Blankfein,
pressed the Fed on rules they said would overstate trading risks
and harm financial markets. They also discussed what they see as
flaws in Fed stress tests designed to gauge the strength of the
nation’s largest lenders.  In today’s speech, Bernanke said the  U.S. economy  is
beginning to benefit from the improved health of the financial
system.  “Credit conditions in the  United States  have improved
significantly in a number of areas,” Bernanke said. “Many --
though certainly not all -- businesses and households are
finding it easier to borrow than they did a few years ago.”  Mortgage lending is an exception, he said, a situation that
will be “difficult to turn around quickly.” Among the reasons:
the slow recovery of the economy and housing, uncertainty
surrounding the future of the government-sponsored enterprises,
the lack of a healthy private-label securitization market, and
“cautious attitudes by lenders.”  Deployment of Capital  “There is going to be much more efficient deployment of
capital” by banks, said Alok Sinha, a principal at  Deloitte &
Touche LLP . “A lot of the rules and regulations are intending
to drive the banks back to traditional core banking.”  Higher capital standards imposed by regulators will
probably undermine bank profitability unless financial
institutions alter their business models or charge consumers and
businesses higher fees, said R. Scott Siefers, a managing
director at Sandler O’Neill Partners, a  New York  brokerage firm
specializing in financial stocks.  “There is no question that profitability will be lower,”
Siefers said before Bernanke spoke. “The magnitude is the
question mark.”  Stocks rose today, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbing 0.4 percent to 1,360.50 as of 2:57 p.m. in New York, as
 Greece  attempted to form a new government and a decline in
American jobless claims helped allay concern of a labor market
setback.  Bank Index  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which tracks 24 large U.S. banks, rose
1.2 percent. The index has increased 19 percent this year,
compared with an 8.2 percent advance for the  S&P 500 .  Investor confidence has gained as regulators demand that
banks improve underwriting, get a better grip on risk and
maintain enough capital to weather another deep recession, said
Eugene Ludwig, chief executive officer of Promontory Financial
Group, a Washington consulting firm.  The Fed places so much emphasis on bank capital because
“it is a definable, easily understandable number and something
that helps restore confidence in institutions,” said Ludwig,
who served as Comptroller of the Currency under President  Bill Clinton .  “The U.S. banking system is dramatically better and
capital standards are markedly up from where they were even
before the crisis,” said Ludwig, who is also due to speak at
the Chicago Fed conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 