-- Biden Said to Apologize to Obama for Gay Marriage Remark
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-05-11T04:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/biden-said-to-apologize-to-obama-for-forcing-gay-marriage-issue.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  apologized
to President  Barack Obama  for upsetting the White House’s
timetable for revealing the president’s support for same-sex
marriage, according to an administration official.  Biden delivered the apology to the president the morning of
May 9, before Obama gave an interview to ABC News in which he
said he has had a change of heart and now supports legal gay
marriage, the official said.  Biden’s comments in a May 6 broadcast of NBC’s “Meet the
Press” that he is “absolutely comfortable” with same-sex
marriage marked the latest instance in which the vice president
publicly stepped on the administration’s message. The remarks
forced Obama to speed up his timetable for revealing his
position on gay marriage, administration officials said.  “The president has been the leader on this issue from Day
One and the vice president never intended to distract from
that,”  Kendra Barkoff , Biden’s press secretary, said in an e-
mail. The  New York  Times reported the apology earlier.  In the ABC News interview in which he revealed his shift,
Obama said Biden “probably got out a little bit over his skis”
in making his remarks “out of a generosity of spirit.”  While Obama said he would have preferred to announce his
position “in my own way, in my own terms,” there were no hard
feelings. “All’s well that ends well.”  ‘Absolute Certainty’  Biden established a reputation for verbal gaffes even
before Obama selected him as a running mate.  At a retreat for Democratic House members in February 2009,
shortly after taking office, Biden told his audience about an
Oval Office conversation on reviving the economy, saying, “if
we do everything right, if we do it with absolute certainty, we
stand up there and we make really tough decisions, there’s still
a 30 percent chance we’re going to get it wrong.”  A week later, Obama was asked about it at a White House
news conference.  “You know, I don’t remember exactly what Joe was referring
to, not surprisingly,” Obama said to laughter. He said Biden
“may have been suggesting” that “given the magnitude of the
challenges that we have, any single thing that we do is going to
be part of the solution, not all of the solution.”  In March 2010, an open microphone picked up Biden
whispering into Obama’s ear before he signed landmark health-
care legislation, “This is a big f----ng deal.”  Show of Candor  Such lapses may not be so politically damaging if they
demonstrate candor, especially for a Democratic ticket running
against a Republican challenger in Romney that the Obama team
caricatures as an “Etch A Sketch” candidate changing positions
for political convenience, said Steve Jarding, a Democratic
political consultant and lecturer at the Harvard Kennedy School
of Government.  “People are so cynical, so turned off, so distrustful and
disillusioned with politics and politicians,” Jarding said.
“In and of itself, having a guy speak his mind I don’t think is
necessarily a bad thing.”  Biden also connects well with blue-collar whites, an
especially important constituency in such battleground states as
Ohio and  Pennsylvania , where Biden grew up in Scranton, said
Democratic political consultant  Paul Begala .  That leavens the professorial manner some see in Obama, a
graduate of  Harvard Law School , Begala added.  “He speaks middle class,” Begala said. Despite 36 years
in the  U.S. Senate , “he doesn’t talk like a senator. He talks
like a guy whose Dad sold cars in Scranton.”  Voicing New Policy  Administration officials who briefed reporters on the
president’s decision to make public his support for same-sex
marriage said Obama had changed his stance earlier this year.
The president and about a half-dozen aides were still
deliberating the time and place for the announcement when Biden
made his remarks on “Meet the Press.”  The president’s advisers knew that Biden, though speaking
on his own, would effectively be voicing a new policy when the
recorded interview aired, according to the officials.  Gay rights advocates stepped up pressure on the White House
for Obama to take a stand in favor of same-sex marriage
following broadcast of Biden’s statement. Education Secretary
Arne Duncan also expressed his support when asked about the
issue the day after Biden’s statements aired.  Present the Issue  While Obama’s spokesman,  Jay Carney , said on May 7 he
didn’t have any update on the president’s previous declaration
that his view was “evolving,” other members of Obama’s team
were working on ways to present the issue.  On May 8, before Obama left Washington for a trip to
 Albany , New York, to talk about the economy, Obama’s
communications office called ABC News to arrange the interview,
officials said.  In that interview, Obama described having conversations
“over the course of several years” with family, friends and
neighbors. He said he was moved by seeing members of his staff
who are in long-term same-sex relationships and gays serving in
the military who aren’t able to commit themselves in marriage.  “I’ve just concluded that, for me personally, it is
important for me to go ahead and affirm that I think same-sex
couples should be able to get married,” Obama said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  