-- Blackstone Counters Fee Pressure Via Custom Pension Deals
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y ,   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-05-10T02:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/blackstone-counters-fee-pressure-via-custom-pension-deals.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the largest
private-equity firm, may have to sacrifice some fee revenue to
win a pledge from the  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System , the largest U.S. pension.  Blackstone and Calpers, which has committed more than $2
billion to the New York-based firm since 1994, may agree on a
separate account with lower fees and more control over deals
than traditional funds, a person briefed on the matter said last
week. Calpers may allocate $500 million, according to a document
on the pension’s website.  The discussions highlight how the biggest investors in
private equity are winning concessions from the largest firms.
While most fees at private-equity funds have barely budged over
the years, New York-based Blackstone,  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  are leading firms willing to cut custom
deals for their top clients as they seek to replace the mega
funds raised before the financial crisis.  “There has been a noticeable change over the past 18
months with a lot going on below the surface, with side letters
being written by investors cutting special deals,” Josh Lerner,
a professor at  Harvard Business School  in  Boston , said in an
interview. “The bulk of the discounts are going to the large
investors.”  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone, declined to
comment.  Separate Accounts  Separately managed accounts are distinct from ordinary
private-equity funds, in which commitments from numerous
investors are pooled and the manager has discretion over how the
money is spent. The accounts are limited to a single investor,
usually command lower management fees and give clients the
chance to choose which deals they invest in.  New Jersey ’s pension system agreed in December to commit as
much as $1.5 billion to Blackstone funds through an arrangement
that will save the state more than $120 million in fees. KKR and
Apollo both won $3 billion assignments in November from the
Teacher Retirement System of Texas after offering discounts, the
details of which haven’t been disclosed.  Apollo, based in  New York , is investing a $600 million
separate account for  New York City ’s public pensions. The
account will be put to work over 12 to 18 months and focus on
fixed income, Matthew Sweeney, a spokesman for the New York City
Comptroller’s Office, said in an interview.  ‘2 and 20’  The industry’s traditional structure of 2 percent
management fees and 20 percent of profits for the private-equity
firms, known as “2 and 20,” is still the norm, even as some of
the largest funds are charging lower fees of about 1.5 percent,
based on current marketing documents.  For the bigger buyout funds, those in excess of $1 billion,
the average management fee has fallen 10 percent since 2008,
according to data compiled by researcher Preqin Ltd. The
downward trend may be steeper for managed accounts, Harvard’s
Lerner said.  Blackstone, Apollo and KKR are seizing on their size
advantage over rivals and their businesses beyond traditional
corporate buyouts to entice pensions, endowments and sovereign-
wealth funds to invest larger sums. Blackstone oversees $190
billion in assets.  Pensions and universities in the U.S. are working to put
money to work as they grapple with funding gaps. Their
bargaining power is constrained by the need for investment
returns to fund their commitments to pensioners and university
operations, said Oliver Gottschalg, a professor at French
business school HEC Paris and author of several studies on
private equity.  Funding Gaps  Some agreements, such as the  Texas  Teachers arrangements,
have provisions that allow the private-equity firm to
“recycle” profits into new deals, saving the time and
resources devoted to raising funds.  U.S. public pensions nationwide had a median of about 75
percent of the funds needed to cover obligations in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The California State
Teachers Retirement System, the second-biggest U.S. public
pension, said last month that the gap between its assets and
projected obligations rose 13 percent to $64.5 billion in the
latest fiscal year.  Big clients are applying fee pressure, Blackstone Chief
Executive Officer Stephen A. Schwarzman said on an April 19
conference call with investors.  ‘Special Discount’  “Sometimes the largest investors in the world want a
special discount for size and management fee breaks,” he said.
“That’s something that has occurred in private equity for at
least the last 10 years to 15 years, but those breaks are a
little more accentuated. I would also say the dollars involved
are larger than they were.”  Sovereign-wealth funds, which typically commit large pools
of money at once, turned to the biggest buyout-fund managers
when they started investing in the asset class, according to
Jeremie Le Febvre, founder of Singapore-based TBG Capital
Advisors, who advises firms on marketing their funds. The 2008
financial crisis boosted their bargaining power, he said.  “The smaller firms, most of whom structurally can’t offer
similar discounts, will suffer,” Le Febvre said.  Pairings such as the pending Blackstone-Calpers tie-up
underscore a deepening bifurcation in private equity. The
largest firms are defining themselves as broader asset managers
for whom private-equity funds are part of a slate of products.
That range of investments, often including real estate,  hedge
funds  and debt vehicles, appeals to big pensions desperate to
plug funding gaps with returns exceeding public indexes.  ILPA’s Push  The commitments come with strings, as well as wariness
after a decade of market turmoil. Many of the industry’s biggest
investors lined up behind the  Institutional Limited Partners
Association , or ILPA, in 2009 to recommend guidelines for how
private-equity managers should behave. The principles include
providing a better understanding of fees and striving to make
rich profits only after delivering gains to clients.  Efforts such as ILPA’s have helped improve less-visible
terms such as transaction and monitoring fees charged to
portfolio companies by giving limited partners a larger share,
Le Febvre said.  Discounts for large or early-bird investors have become
part of the fundraising package even without separate accounts.
 Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s second-largest private-equity
company, will charge a 1.1 percent management fee for backers
who commit $500 million or more to its latest flagship buyout
fund, people familiar with the matter said in February. Smaller
investors will pay as much as 1.5 percent.  ‘More Complex’  “Fee structures are becoming more and more complex, a bit
like the hotel or the airline industries,” Lerner said.  BC Partners Ltd., the London-based owner of Swedish cable
company Com Hem, offered to cut management fees by 5 percent for
those committing during its latest fund’s first stage of capital
raising.  Permira Advisers LLC, a London-based firm seeking 6.5
billion euros ($8.5 billion), is offering a 5 percent reduction
in management fees for the portion of any pledge exceeding 200
million euros, according to a marketing document obtained by
Bloomberg News. The median individual commitment in buyout funds
exceeding $4.5 billion is $40 million, Preqin’s data show.  KKR and  Menlo Park , California-based Silver Lake Management
LLC are among those offering similar deals.  “There has been some creativity among first-time funds and
second-quartile funds on fee breaks,” said David Fann, chief
executive officer of TorreyCove Capital Partners LLC, a  La
Jolla , California-based firm that advises the Oregon and
Illinois pension plans on investments. “It is a marketing
gimmick that seems to be effective with fee-conscious investors,
for those who know they will re-up with the next fund. The war
is still being fought on the management fees.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  