-- BM&FBovespa Profit Increases on Record Trading Volume
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2012-05-11T13:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/bm-fbovespa-profit-increases-on-record-trading-volume-1-.html
(Corrects BM&FBovespa earnings estimates in the second
paragraph of story published on May 10.)  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the operator of  Latin
America ’s biggest securities exchange, reported an increase in
its first-quarter profit as higher trading volumes boosted
revenue.  Adjusted net income rose to 409.2 million reais ($209.5
million), from 384.2 million reais a year earlier, according to
a regulatory filing. Analysts had expected the company to post
adjusted net income of 410.7 million reais in the first three
months of 2012, according to the average of seven  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Average daily trading volume in stocks rose 6.3 percent to
a record 7.2 billion reais in the first quarter as the European
Central Bank increased lending to ease the sovereign debt
crisis, helping drive investors into riskier emerging-market
assets including Brazilian equities. Total revenue was 502.8
million reais, compared with 472.2 million reais a year earlier,
according to the filing.  “The decision by the  European Central Bank  to make long-
term loans on extremely generous terms available to banks in the
region stirred up the global markets in the first quarter and,
in turn, boosted the volumes of stock market operations,” Fator
Corretora analysts including Jacqueline Lison wrote in a note to
clients before earnings were released.  The ECB lent banks 529.5 billion euros ($685 billion) in
the first quarter, helping to ease concern that the region’s
debt crisis could affect the financial system.  The Bovespa index,  Brazil ’s benchmark equity gauge,  jumped 
14 percent in the first quarter, the best start to a year since
1999, as interest-rate cuts in Brazil, signs of a stronger
recovery in the U.S. and renewed optimism about the outlook for
 Europe  lifted stocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net 
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  