-- BOE Halts Stimulus as Inflation Threat Outweighs Slump
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-05-10T11:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/boe-halts-stimulus-as-u-k-inflation-threat-trumps-slump.html
Bank of England  officials halted
stimulus expansion after seven months of bond purchases as the
threat of inflation trumped concerns about an economy that’s
succumbed to a double-dip recession.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor
Mervyn King today held its quantitative-easing  target  at 325
billion pounds ($525 billion), ending a second round of
stimulus, a move forecast by 43 out of 51 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Officials also left the  benchmark
interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent. The pound erased
its decline against the dollar.  With inflation on course to exceed Bank of England
forecasts and the economy struggling to recover, policy makers
have been divided on how to resolve the dilemma. Today’s
decision signals  price-growth worries  are mounting even as the
U.K. struggles with government budget cuts, high unemployment
and threats from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “They’re trying to signal a transition away from a mild
dovish bias toward a more normal stance,” said  Ross Walker , an
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “Our
forecast is that they’re done with QE, but you can’t rule out
more later this year. They could get blown off course if market
conditions deteriorate.”  Pound Advances  The pound rose as much as 0.4 percent against the dollar
after the announcement, erasing its loss on the day. It traded
at $1.6169 as of 12:41 p.m. in London.  Government bonds  declined, pushing the yield on the 10-year
gilt up 7 basis points to 1.970 percent. The yield fell to a
record-low 1.881 percent yesterday as Europe’s debt crisis
pushed investors to  seek refuge  in the relative safety of U.K.
sovereign debt.  Unlike the last time the bank halted quantitative easing in
February 2010, the central bank didn’t issue a statement today.
King is due to speak at a press conference on May 16, when the
bank will publish the new economic forecasts that underpinned
today’s decision. Minutes of the meeting, showing how policy
makers voted, will be released on May 23.  “Keen to defend today’s decision, the message is probably
going to be that the risks around the inflation target are now
balanced,” said Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in London. “That would mean the MPC has no
current bias to changing policy, but of course does not pre-
commit it to do nothing.”  Euro-Area Inflation  Elsewhere,  Russia ’s central bank refrained from cutting
 interest rates  for a fifth month today, signaling determination
to hold down price growth. The  European Central Bank  said today
that professional forecasters raised their estimates for
inflation this year and next. Forecasters estimate  euro-area
inflation  will average 2.3 percent and 1.8 percent, up from 1.9
percent and 1.7 percent three months ago respectively.  In the U.K.,  consumer-price growth  accelerated to 3.5
percent in March and inflation concerns are mounting.  Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said April 18 that the
“uncomfortably above target” rate could hold above 3 percent
into the second half of the year. Policy maker  Adam Posen  ended
a push for further stimulus last month and minutes of that
meeting said there was a risk that inflation may “fall less
rapidly” than projected.  QE Outlook  Still, the Confederation of British Industry, the U.K.’s
biggest business lobby, said a third round of QE can’t be ruled
out, citing “subdued” economic conditions and signs that euro-
area tensions are building again.  Reports last week indicated  manufacturing  and services
weakened in April after the economy shrank 0.2 percent in the
first quarter.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-largest
supermarket owner, said yesterday that the “wider economic
situation remains uncertain.”  Factory output rose a faster-than-expected 0.9 percent in
March from February, when it fell a downwardly revised 1.1
percent, the statistics office said today. Overall  industrial
production  fell 0.3 percent, in line with economists’ forecasts.  In the euro area, Britain’s biggest export market,  Spain  is
struggling to contain speculation it will need a bailout, while
a political stalemate in  Greece  after elections has raised
concerns the country may leave the currency bloc. More than 50
percent of investors predict a country will exit this year,
according to the Bloomberg Global Poll published today.  The minutes of today’s decision may reveal a split among
policy makers.  David Miles , the only MPC member to vote for more
stimulus last month, has since said in an interview that his
decision looks vindicated, while  Martin Weale  said data showing
the U.K. slipped back into recession strengthened the argument
for more QE.  “It is possible for the MPC to reopen the tap on asset
purchases at any stage, even in principle at least, next
month,” said  Philip Shaw , an economist at Investec Securities
in  London . “But more realistically the committee has probably
entered a period of ‘wait and see.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  