-- Boko Haram Attacks Hurting Sales at Nigerian Breweries, CEO Says
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-05-10T23:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/boko-haram-attacks-hurting-sales-at-nigerian-breweries-ceo-says.html
Nigerian Breweries Plc (NB) , the nation’s
largest brewer by market value, said bombings and attacks by
Boko Haram Islamists are curbing sales in the north.  “People are more reluctant to go out and retail sales in
the more insecure areas are under pressure,” Chief Executive
Officer Nicolaas Vervelde said in an interview yesterday in
Lagos,  Nigeria ’s commercial capital. The north, which had been
growing “in line” with the rest of the market through malt
drinks in recent years, “is doing less than what we see
elsewhere in the country,” he said.  Authorities in  Africa ’s biggest oil producing country blame
Boko Haram for a surge in bomb and gun attacks in the country’s
mainly Muslim north and Abuja, the capital, in which hundreds
have died this year. The group, whose name means “Western
education is a sin,” claimed responsibility for attacks that
killed 256 people in January in Kano, the biggest city in the
north, and last year’s suicide car-bombing of the United Nations
building in Abuja that killed 24.  PZ Cussons Plc (PZC) , the U.K. maker of soap that gets the
greatest share of its sales from Africa, said in a statement in
March that its performance would be “some way below
expectations” because of turmoil in the north.  Nigerian Breweries, which is a unit of Amsterdam-based
 Heineken NV (HEIA) , has advanced 19 percent this year, twice the 8.7
percent gain for the  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index. (NGSEINDX) 
First-quarter profit jumped 16 percent from a year earlier,
while revenue climbed 29 percent.  ‘Robust Growth’  Even with the violence in the north, the company expects
second-quarter earnings to continue to expand at a similar pace
to last quarter, Vervelde said, with its Star lager leading
sales.  “The fundamentals of the market are still good,” Vervelde
said. “If you compare that with what’s happening in  Europe ,
it’s robust growth.”  Nigeria’s economy is forecast to grow 6.5 percent this
year, according to the National Bureau of Statistics, with the
nation’s population of more than 160 million expanding 2.5
percent a year, World Bank estimates show. The European
Commission forecasts 0.3 percent growth for the European Union’s
economy this year.  Nigerian Breweries last year acquired Sona Systems
Associates Business Management Ltd. and Life Breweries Co. to
expand its capacity and extend its brands. The company has
invested about 100 million euros ($130 million) annually on
average over the past five years, a trend that may continue as
the company expands capacity at newly acquired breweries,
Vervelde said. The company currently operates eight brewing
plants in Nigeria.  ‘Young Demographics’  Nigerian Breweries is “open to any opportunity” to
continue expansion through acquisitions, said Vervelde.“The
market has become far more competitive.”  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-largest brewer by volume,
is building a $100 million plant in Onitsha, in south-eastern
Nigeria. Guinness Nigeria Plc, a beer-making unit of distiller
 Diageo Plc (DGE) , said last year that it will spend $336 million to
expand brewing capacity in the country.  “You’ve got young demographics, fast growing
demographics,” said Vervelde. “For beer that’s the prime
category.”  Growing incomes and higher  oil prices  are helping increase
consumption of more expensive beverages, Vervelde said. Nigerian
Breweries is well positioned to serve this market, he said.  “Nigerians are exposed to traveling and international
experience and that also means you get in touch with a more
cosmopolitan lifestyle,” said Vervelde.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Lagos at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  