-- Bone Drugs May Not Help Women Long Term, FDA Review Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   P o l l a c k
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/bone-drugs-may-not-help-women-long-term-fda-review-says.html
Bone-strengthening drugs such as
 Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Fosamax, used to treat and prevent osteoporosis in
older women, may have little long-term benefit, U.S. regulators
said in an analysis of previously released studies.  Research from the  Food and Drug Administration ,  published 
yesterday in the New England Journal of Medicine, renews a
debate about whether use of the drugs after more than three to
five years provides any protection against the risk of  bone
fractures . The agency has been evaluating the safety of the
treatments since 2007 and last September an advisory panel
suggested changes to the medicines’ labels to show the
effectiveness may wear off over time.  About 8 million women and 2 million men in the U.S. have
 osteoporosis  and 34 million Americans have low bone mass that
puts them at risk of the disease, according to the FDA. The
agency previously linked the drugs, which include  Warner
Chilcott Plc (WCRX) ’s Actonel and  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Boniva, to thigh
fractures and jawbone deterioration. It is also investigating
conflicting studies that the treatments may raise the risk of
esophageal cancer.  The analysis of two previous studies of 2,342 post-
menopausal women “showed little benefit of continued
bisphosphonate treatment beyond five years,” the FDA said in
yesterday’s report.  While the agency didn’t propose specific guidelines for
doctors, it suggested that women with low bone-mineral density
at the highest risk of fractures may gain some benefit from
continued treatment with the drugs.  Actonel had $771 million in 2011  sales  for Dublin-based
Warner Chilcott while Boniva  generated  $788 million for Basel,
Switzerland based Roche. Fosamax, which faces generic
competition, had  sales  of $855 million for Whitehouse Station,
New Jersey-based Merck.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Pollack in  San Francisco  at 
 apollack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  