-- Brazil Senate Passes World Cup Bill, Lifts Ban on Beer Sales
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2012-05-10T12:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/brazil-senate-passes-world-cup-bill-lifts-ban-on-beer-sales.html
Brazil’s Senate yesterday approved a
set of rules needed for the country to host the 2014 soccer
 World Cup , including the lifting of a federal ban on the sale of
alcoholic drinks in stadiums during the tournament.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s largest brewer,
extended in October its beer sponsorship for the FIFA World Cup
through 2022. The legislation now needs to be signed by
President  Dilma Rousseff .  Brazil currently bans consumption of alcoholic beverages at
sporting events held in stadiums because of concern it fuels
violence. Five of the 12 Brazilian states that will host World
Cup games still have local laws that prohibit sales of alcohol
in stadiums and may have to suspend them, Senator Ana Amelia de
Lemos, a member of the government coalition and one of the
sponsors of the bill, told reporters in Brasilia yesterday.  “This could end in court as some states can still forbid
beverages,” Lemos said. “If you don’t allow beverages, an
international agreement is broken, creating legal uncertainty
that undermines  Brazil ’s image.”  Brazil’s Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo and the chairman of
the country’s soccer confederation Jose Maria Marin met FIFA
President Sepp Blatter in Zurich on May 8 to discuss the
project. FIFA said Brazil has made “significant progress” on
preparing stadiums for the tournament.  Relations between FIFA, which is world soccer’s governing
body, and the Brazilian government became strained after the
country delayed approving the bill. Brazil committed to enact
the legislation when it was awarded the $5 billion event almost
five years ago. FIFA also complained earlier this year about
slow progress in building stadiums.  “Though analyses are still being carried out, several
obstacles have already been identified in some cities,” FIFA
said in a May 8  statement  on its website. “These points will be
discussed with the relevant authorities with a view to
identifying solutions. The monitoring process, which is being
conducted with the support of an international consultancy firm,
will also continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  