-- British Airways Sells BMI Regional Arm to Unit’s Former Head
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-05-10T16:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/british-airways-sells-bmi-regional-arm-to-unit-s-former-head-1-.html
British Airways (IAG)  parent International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA agreed to sell the Scotland-based
regional business of newly-acquired BMI for 8 million pounds
($13 million) to investors including the unit’s one-time head.  BMI Regional will be bought by Sector Aviation Holdings
Ltd., led by Ian Woodley, ex-chief of Business Air, which helped
form the regional arm after a 1996 takeover by BMI. Investors
include Stephen and Peter Bond, backers of  Scotland ’s Loganair.  “This deal provides a future for BMI Regional and should
secure around 330 jobs,” IAG Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  said in a statement. The deal should close within two
weeks following U.K. Civil Aviation Authority approval, he said.  IAG completed the purchase of BMI from  Deutsche Lufthansa
AG (LHA)  on April 20 after agreeing to buy the business for 172.5
million pounds in December to boost its position at London’s
overcrowded  Heathrow airport . Lufthansa reduced the sale price
after failing to unload the Regional and BMIbaby discount
divisions separately, and Walsh said May 4 that the no-frills
unit may be shut down in September in the absence of fresh bids.  IAG fell 1.2 percent to 163 pence in London, paring gains
this year to 11 percent. Cologne, Germany-based Lufthansa rose
1.7 percent to 9.18 euros and is down 0.1 percent for the year.  Buyback Authority  BMI Regional is based at Aberdeen in northeast Scotland,
where Business Air was also once located, and operates to 14
domestic and north European destinations from U.K. regional
airports using a fleet of 18  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  jets.  The sale includes all of the unit’s fixed assets and long-
term liabilities, including owned and operating-lease aircraft,
IAG said in today’s statement.  While BMI Regional was still under Lufthansa’s ownership
Woodley formed a bid team for the business known as Granite City
Aviation, after Aberdeen’s nickname, IAG said.  IAG said separately today that it will seek authority from
investors to buy back shares representing as much as 10 percent
of outstanding stock. The company’s directors have “no present
intention” of exercising that right should it be granted at a
meeting on June 21, according to a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in  London  at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  