-- Canada Dollar Trades at Almost Parity Before Jobs Report
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-05-10T21:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/canadian-dollar-gains-most-in-1-week-as-stock-futures-up.html
Canada ’s dollar traded at almost
parity with its U.S. counterpart before a government report
tomorrow that economists predict will show that employment
growth is slowing.  The currency climbed earlier after two days of losses
incurred amid speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis would worsen
after  France  elected a socialist president and as  Greece 
struggled to form a new government. It pared gains after stocks
retreated from the highs of the day. Canada’s trade surplus
widened less than forecast in March, data showed.  “Risk is fading,”  Steve Butler , managing director in
Toronto at Bank of  Nova Scotia ’s Scotia Capital unit, said via
e-mail.  The U.S. dollar-Canadian dollar exchange rate “had a
decent correction lower this morning, now it’s resuming the
uptrend,” he said, referring to the direction of the
greenback’s moves.  The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated less than 0.1
percent to C$1.0021 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It
advanced as much as 0.5 percent, the biggest intraday jump since
April 25, to 99.77 cents after falling yesterday to C$1.0063,
the weakest since January. One Canadian dollar purchases 99.79
U.S. cents.  The currency weakened below a one-for-one basis with the
U.S. dollar on May 8 for the first time in three weeks, after
reaching 98 cents on April 27, the strongest since September. It
has lost 0.5 percent this week.  The MSCI World Index of stocks was up 0.3 percent in its
first gain in seven days, after rising as much as 0.8 percent
earlier. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index advanced 0.3 percent,
paring a 0.8 percent gain.  Aid to Greece  The loonie gained earlier versus most of its major peers as
Europe’s bailout fund confirmed the next installment of aid to
Greece was received, easing concern that the country at the
center of the debt crisis will default. Greek voters at
elections over the weekend revolted at austerity measures.  Canadian 10-year  government bonds  erased losses. Yields on
the  benchmark securities  were 1.98 percent, after increasing as
much as four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.03
percent. They fell to as low as 1.93 percent yesterday, the
least since Feb. 3. Two-year note yields increased two basis
points today to 1.24 percent.  Employers added 10,000 jobs last month, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before
 Statistics Canada  reports the data tomorrow. Employment grew in
March by 82,300. The jobless rate rose to 7.3 percent in April,
from 7.2 percent, economists projected.  Loonie May Gain  The Canadian dollar may strengthen versus its U.S.
counterpart if employment improves, according to  Adam Cole ,
global head of foreign-exchange strategy in  London  at Royal  Bank
of Canada ’s RBC Capital Markets unit. The loonie has dropped 1.5
percent this month as traders trimmed bets the Bank of Canada
will raise  interest rates  by September.  Odds of the central bank boosting its 1 percent benchmark
 interest rate  by the Sept. 5 policy meeting dropped to 43
percent today, from 75 percent on April 27, according to
Bloomberg calculations on overnight index swaps. Chances were 19
percent on April 16, the day before policy makers suggested
rates would be raised sooner than economists expected as slack
in the economy evaporated.  “Having overshot to the upside in terms of rate increases
priced in, we’ve probably now overshot in the other direction,”
Cole said in a telephone interview. “A run of decent, even
half-decent domestic data might get us running back toward
sensible levels for expectations of rate hikes. A run of good
domestic numbers could be Canadian-dollar positive.”  ‘Weaker Number’  Scotia’s Butler said he’s “concerned about the topside”
in the U.S.-Canada exchange rate, meaning he believes the
balance of risks favors a drop in the Canadian dollar after the
jobs data tomorrow.  “The market is looking for a weaker number,” he said.
“The risks are for spot Canadian dollar to break the C$1.0050
to C$1.0070 resistance area. If that goes, I think we see the
C$1.0020 to C$1.0050 area.” Resistance is an area on a chart
where orders may be clustered.  The Canadian dollar gained 1.1 percent over the past month
versus nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  advanced 0.8
percent, and the euro fell 0.4 percent.  The nation’s trade surplus widened in March to C$351
million ($350 million) from a revised C$273 million in February,
Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. A Bloomberg survey had
forecast a C$500 million surplus. It was the fifth straight
surplus, the longest run since the last recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  