-- Canada March New House Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-05-10T12:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/canada-march-new-house-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the new house price index report for March released by
 Statistics Canada .  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) rose 0.3% in March,
following a similar increase in February.  The metropolitan regions of Toronto and Oshawa,  Edmonton ,
and Calgary were the top contributors to the increase in March.
The positive impact of these regions on the overall index was
slightly offset by the decreases observed in Vancouver and
Victoria.  In Toronto and Oshawa, the rise in prices was predominantly
explained by good market conditions and increased demand.  In Edmonton, builders reported increased material and
labour costs and in Calgary, improving market conditions were
given as a reason for the increase.  From February to March, Winnipeg (+0.7%) posted the largest
monthly price advance, followed by Toronto and Oshawa (+0.6%).  In Winnipeg, price increases were primarily the result of
higher land development costs as well as increased material and
labour costs.  Other notable increases were observed in Québec and Ottawa-
Gatineau (both +0.5%).  In March, prices were unchanged in 7 of the 21 metropolitan
regions surveyed.  The most significant monthly price decline was recorded in
Victoria (-0.7%), as builders reduced their prices as a result
of competitive market conditions.  Year over year, the NHPI was up 2.6%, following a 2.3%
increase the previous month. The main contributor to the advance
was the metropolitan region of Toronto and Oshawa.  The largest year-over-year price increases were recorded in
Toronto and Oshawa (+6.2%), Regina (+5.7%) and Winnipeg (+4.2%).  Other significant year-over-year increases in contractors’
selling prices were observed in Québec (+3.1%) and Ottawa-
Gatineau (+3.0%).  Among the 21 metropolitan regions surveyed, 4 posted 12-
month price declines in March, with Victoria (-3.0%) posting the
largest decrease.  Note to readers  The New Housing  Price Index  measures changes over time in
the selling prices of new residential houses agreed upon between
the contractor and the buyer at the time of the signing of the
contract. It is designed to measure the changes in the selling
prices of new houses where detailed specifications pertaining to
each house remain the same between two consecutive periods. The
prices collected from builders and included in the index are
market selling prices less value added taxes, such as the
Federal Goods and Services Tax or the Harmonized Sales Tax.  This release presents data that are not seasonally adjusted
and the indexes published are final.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  