-- Canadian Stocks Rebound From Six-Day Skid on U.S. Jobs
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-05-10T20:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/canadian-stocks-rebound-from-six-day-skid-on-u-s-jobs.html
Canadian stocks  rebounded from a six-
day skid, led by banks and energy producers, as Greece attempted
to form a new government and the U.S. reported a decline in
jobless claims.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,  Canada ’s largest oil and gas producer,
climbed 0.8 percent.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the
country’s third-biggest energy company, increased 1.5 percent.
 Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the nation’s biggest lender, rose 1.1
percent.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , the country’s biggest base-metals
producer, rose 0.5 percent as copper prices increased.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 61.16
points, or 0.5 percent, to 11,736.17 in Toronto.  “You’ve had six straight days of negativity and the market
was bound to bounce back,”  Irwin Michael , a portfolio manager
at ABC Funds in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.
Michael’s firm oversees C$1 billion ($1 billion). “It’s a bit
of a relief rally. Investors are taking a pause and looking
ahead.”  The benchmark gauge declined 5.3 percent during the six-day
slump and is heading for a second straight weekly decline. Last
week it fell as a U.S. report showed employers added fewer jobs
than forecast in April and commodity prices dropped. Energy and
mining shares account for 43 percent of Canadian stocks by
market value.  Canadian energy companies gained today as U.S. first-time
claims for jobless benefits fell last week to a one-month low.
Suncor Energy climbed 0.8 percent to C$29.30. Canadian Natural
Resources increased 1.5 percent to C$31.15.  Crescent Point
Energy Corp. (CPG) , a western Canadian oil and gas producer, rose 3.6
percent to C$42.38.  Political Impasse  Financial companies in the S&P/TSX increased as former
Greece Finance Minister  Evangelos Venizelos  attempted to form a
government that will ensure the nation remains in the euro area.
Global stocks slumped yesterday amid the political impasse as
concern grew that Greece’s debt crisis is worsening.  Royal Bank of Canada rose 1.1 percent to C$53.95. Toronto-
Dominion Bank, Canada’s second-largest lender, increased 0.7
percent to C$80.19.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , the country’s third-
largest lender, gained 0.5 percent to C$52.80.  The  S&P/TSX Diversified Metals and Mining  index rose as
copper advanced for the first time in three days after the news
from Greece eased concerns that the country will default on
loans, boosting the outlook for global economic growth and
commodity demand.  Teck Resources rose 0.5 percent to C$33.42. Ivanhoe Mines
Ltd., Rio Tinto Group’s partner in the Oyu Tolgoi Mongolian gold
and copper mine, gained 1.7 percent to C$9.99.  Linamar Corp. (LNR) , Canada’s second-largest auto-parts maker,
surged 12 percent to C$20.89 after reporting first-quarter
earnings excluding some items of 59 Canadian cents, exceeding
the average analyst estimate of 53 Canadian cents.  Magna International Inc. (MG)  rose 2.3 percent to C$43.64. North
America’s largest auto-parts supplier reported that first-
quarter profit rose 6.5 percent and raised its full-year sales
forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  