-- Canada March International Merchandise Trade Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-05-10T12:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/canada-march-international-merchandise-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s international merchandise trade report for March
from  Statistics Canada .  Canada’s merchandise exports edged down 0.4% and imports
decreased 0.6%. As a result, Canada’s trade surplus increased
from $273 million in February to $351 million in March.  Exports decreased for a third consecutive month to $39.5
billion, as prices fell 1.3%. Exports of energy products led the
overall decline, partially offset by increases of industrial
goods and materials as well as machinery and equipment.  Imports declined to $39.1 billion, as prices decreased 2.3%.
The overall decline was a result of lower imports of energy
products and industrial goods and materials. All remaining
sectors registered increases.  Exports to the United States fell 2.1% to $28.7 billion,
the third consecutive monthly decrease. Imports also declined,
down 1.4% to $24.1 billion in March. Consequently, Canada’s
trade surplus with the  United States  decreased from $4.9 billion
in February to $4.6 billion in March.  Exports to countries other than the United States rose 4.5%
to $10.8 billion and imports increased 0.8% to $15.1 billion. As
a result, Canada’s trade deficit with countries other than the
United States narrowed from $4.6 billion in February to $4.3
billion in March.  Lower prices of energy products contribute to the overall
decline in exports  Exports of energy products fell 8.9% to $9.9 billion in
March, primarily the result of lower prices, down 8.0%. Exports
of crude petroleum were solely responsible for the overall
decrease, down 15.7% as a result of a decrease in prices and
volumes. Higher exports of petroleum and coal products, mainly
diesel fuel, partially offset the decline in the sector.  Exports of industrial goods and materials increased 6.2% to
$9.9 billion as a result of higher volumes and prices. Exports
of precious metals and alloys, organic chemicals as well as
copper ores, concentrates and scrap led the sector’s gain, on
the strength of volumes.  Exports of machinery and equipment grew 3.4% to $6.9
billion in March as volumes rose 3.0%. The main contributor to
the increase was higher exports of other end products, primarily
gold coins.  Exports of other  consumer goods , mainly medicinal and
pharmaceutical products, increased 11.6% to $1.4 billion, the
result of higher volumes, up 11.2%.  Energy products leads the decline in imports  Imports of energy products fell 14.9% to $4.3 billion in
March, as volumes fell 13.9%. The decline was mostly the result
of lower imports of petroleum and coal products, down 32.1%,
after reaching a record high in February.  Imports of industrial goods and materials declined 4.0% to
$8.1 billion, as prices fell 5.4%. Precious metals and alloys
led the decrease, falling 15.9% as prices declined. Imports of
metals in ores, concentrates and scrap also contributed to the
sector’s decline, a result of lower volumes.  Imports of automotive products rose 4.7% to $6.5 billion as
volumes and prices increased. Trucks and other motor vehicles,
up 7.0%, reached a record high of $1.8 billion. Passenger autos
and chassis and motor vehicle parts also recorded gains, up 4.5%
and 3.3%, respectively.  Imports of machinery and equipment increased 2.3% to $10.8
billion, as volumes increased 2.8%. The increase was led by
higher imports of other machinery and equipment, primarily
 laboratory equipment , as well as industrial and agricultural
machinery.  Note to readers  Merchandise trade is one component of Canada’s
international balance of payments (BOP), which also includes
trade in services, investment income, current transfers as well
as capital and financial flows.  International merchandise trade data by country are
available on both a BOP and a customs basis for the United
States,  Japan  and the  United Kingdom . Trade data for all other
individual countries are available on a customs basis only. BOP
data are derived from customs data by making adjustments for
factors such as valuation, coverage, timing and residency. These
adjustments are made to conform to the concepts and definitions
of the Canadian System of National Accounts.  Data in this release are on a BOP basis, seasonally
adjusted and in current dollars. Constant dollars are calculated
using the Laspeyres volume formula.  Revisions  In general, merchandise trade data are revised on an
ongoing basis for each month of the current year. Current year
revisions are reflected in both the customs and BOP based data.  The previous year’s customs data are revised with the
release of the January and February reference months as well as
on a quarterly basis. The previous two years of customs based
data are revised annually and are released in February with the
December reference month.  The previous year’s BOP based data will be revised with the
release of the January, February, March and April 2012 reference
months.  Factors influencing revisions include late receipt of
import and export documentation, incorrect information on
customs forms, replacement of estimates produced for the energy
sector with actual figures, changes in classification of
merchandise based on more current information, and changes to
seasonal adjustment factors.  Revised data are available in the appropriate CANSIM tables,
free of charge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  