-- Capital International Raises $3 Billion for Emerging Markets
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-05-10T04:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/capital-international-raises-3-billion-for-emerging-markets.html
The private equity unit of the
Capital Group Companies, which includes the  American Funds ,
closed an  emerging markets  fund at its $3 billion limit, in a
signal of investor appetite for exposure to these regions.  Capital International Private Equity Fund VI is larger than
the prior fund that raised about $2.2 billion in 2007. Capital
International Private Equity Funds, which has been investing in
emerging markets since 1992, is benefiting from increased demand
by global private equity investors.  Three-quarters of investors expect to increase their
commitments to emerging markets over the next two years,
according to a recent survey by the Washington-based Emerging
Markets Private Equity Association.  Fund VI held a final close in March after it began raising
money in December 2010, Jim McGuigan, a managing partner who
handles  investor relations , said in an interview. The new fund
is expected to make 15 to 20 investments, which is similar to
the number of investments made by prior funds. It will make a
priority of about 16 of 138 emerging market countries, according
to a statement.  The team looks at companies and people first in making
investment decisions rather than targeting certain countries,
said Koenraad Foulon, co-founder of CIPEF, in an interview. A
“herd mentality” is an issue in emerging markets where most
emphasis goes to  China , India and Brazil and results in highly
competitive markets, said Foulon.  Close to 20 percent of the fund has been committed, the
company said in the statement. Investments include Eaton Towers,
a telecom tower development company with projects across Africa,
and the equipment and infrastructure affiliate of  Larsen &
Toubro Ltd. (LT) , an engineering and construction company in India.  Investors in the fund include Ohio Public Employees
Retirement System, Oregon Public Employees Retirement Fund and
Pennsylvania Public School Employees’ Retirement System.  Capital International is a subsidiary of Capital Group
International Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  