-- Cardinal Health Set for DEA Showdown Over Pain Pill Sales
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-10T19:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/cardinal-health-set-for-dea-showdown-over-pain-pill-sales.html
The day after U.S. drug agents showed
up at  Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH) ’s distribution center in central
Florida, probing oxycodone sales, the company’s compliance chief
sent a handwritten note to “Michele” -- Michele Leonhart the
head of the Drug Enforcement Administration.  As the Justice Department’s second-in-command before
joining Cardinal in 2008, Craig Morford had overseen the DEA
while Leonhart was acting administrator. He was hired to manage
compliance after the company’s previous run-in with the DEA in
2007, one of his specialties being “interactions with
government agencies,” according to Cardinal’s website.  Morford attached his note to a three-page memo touting
Cardinal’s efforts to keep prescription narcotics from reaching
addicts and criminals. It suggested a meeting with Leonhart to
address the drug-diversion problem “in a non-adversarial way,”
according to documents filed in federal court.  The bid failed.  In February, the DEA suspended Cardinal’s license to ship
controlled substances from the Lakeland, Florida, facility,
which supplies 2,500 pharmacies. The agency alleged the company
hadn’t made sure the drugs went only to legitimate patients and
ordered Cardinal to explain why the suspension shouldn’t be made
permanent.  Cardinal will get to make its case at a hearing later this
month, set to be scheduled today by a DEA administrative law
judge. The judge will send a recommendation on the license to
Leonhart, whose decision can be appealed to federal court.  Emergency Ruling  The behind-the-scenes conflict between Cardinal and the DEA
came to light in February after the company asked a federal
judge in  Washington  for an emergency ruling to overturn the
suspension. Internal reports by the company and agency, sworn
statements, e-mails and customer data provide an inside view of
what caused the showdown.  Cardinal Chairman George Barrett, responding to the
suspension, said the company was being held accountable for
“parts of the supply chain that we do not control.”  “We do not write prescriptions,” he told analysts in a
Feb. 3 conference call. “We do not dispense controlled
medicines, nor do we license pharmacies.” In court papers, the
company argued it only supplied DEA-registered outlets.  In the DEA’s view, Cardinal, the second-largest U.S. drug
distributor with revenue of $102.6 billion in 2011, was helping
fuel a national surge in abuse of addictive painkillers. It was
also a recidivist. Cardinal settled similar allegations in 2008
for $34 million, then the largest fine under the Controlled
Substances Act.  Months of Proceedings  Now Cardinal may face months of administrative proceedings
and appeals as it seeks to restore drug distribution from
 Florida . It also risks lost market share, federal fines and
state probes, and the possibility that the case will make it
harder to win U.S. contracts.  A 10-month suspension of three Cardinal facilities,
including Lakeland, in 2007 cost the company about $833 million
in lost sales, according to a court filing by the company.  From the DEA’s first facility suspension on Nov. 28, 2007,
to Oct. 29, 2008, when company reported first-quarter earnings
after settling with the agency, Cardinal shares fell 40 percent
to $25.21 from $42.26. Cardinal rose 10 cents to $42.33 at 3:30
p.m. in  New York .  To avoid such risks, Dublin, Ohio-based Cardinal spent more
than $16 million modifying its suspicious-activity monitoring
program, according to Morford, who told Leonhart 14 employees
are “exclusively dedicated” to it.  ‘Glaring’ Pattern  Yet less than a year after pledging improvement, the
company failed to act on a “glaring” pattern of oxycodone
orders that should have triggered a crackdown on several
customer pharmacies in Florida, DEA special agent Gary Boggs
said.  “The only thing I can think of is that they chose not to
for purposes of profit,” Boggs said in an interview.  Last year, Cardinal shipped enough of the semi-synthetic
opiate painkiller oxycodone to two  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  pharmacies
in Sanford, Florida, to supply a population eight times the
city’s size, according to the government. The DEA alleged in
court filings that Cardinal didn’t question the orders or heed
warnings to conduct on-site audits.  “These were not just high numbers,” Boggs said in an
interview. “These numbers were off the chart.”  Barrett, Cardinal’s chairman, called the suspension
“overly aggressive” and “counter-productive” in his Feb. 3
call. The same day, the company made its failed effort in court
to lift the suspension.  ‘Tools and Systems’  “We have been investing, and will continue to invest in
people, tools and systems designed to detect and prevent
diversion of controlled drugs,” Debbie Mitchell, a spokeswoman
for Cardinal, said, declining to comment on the DEA case.  A phone call to Morford was directed to Mitchell, who said
he couldn’t be interviewed.  “There’s a lot of debate as to whether the DEA should be
prosecuting Cardinal to the extent it is since the company
doesn’t directly interact with patients or physicians,” said
 Adam Fein , a consultant for drug manufacturers and the founder
of Pembroke Consulting Inc., a Philadelphia-based management
advisory and business research firm.  “Many people, including me, believe they are overstepping
their bounds in going after Cardinal in this manner,” he said
in an interview.  About 5 million Americans use painkillers such as
oxycodone, hydrocodone and oxymorphone for non-medical purposes,
according to the government’s 2010 National Survey on Drug Use
and Health.  Addicted Babies  A baby is born every hour in the U.S. addicted to
prescription painkillers, according to a study published April
30 in the Journal of the  American Medical Association .  In Florida, identified by the DEA as the “epicenter” of
illegal use of painkillers, more than 4,000 people died in 2010
from overdoses associated with oxycodone, methadone,
hydrocodone, morphine and benzodiazepines, according to data
from the Florida Medical Examiner’s Office cited in court
documents. The same year, Florida’s surgeon general reported
that 98 of the 100 doctors dispensing the most oxycodone in the
U.S. were located in the state.  A prescription of 180 pills of 30 milligrams of oxycodone
without health insurance retails for about $260. On the street,
each pill fetches as much as $30, according to the DEA. Pills
bought in Florida are illegally sold along the East Coast and in
the Midwest, the DEA reports.  ‘Red Flags’  The DEA has established “red flags” to look for drug
diversion. Suspicious activities include groups of customers
appearing at pharmacies miles from home, and presenting
prescriptions from the same doctors for the same drugs to treat
the same conditions. And they pay in cash.  “The majority of people have lower lumbar pain,” Susan
Langston, the DEA’s acting diversion program manager in Miami,
said during an April 25 suspension hearing involving Cardinal
customer CVS.  Last year, the top 25 drug wholesalers in Florida
distributed more than 572 million oxycodone pills to retail
pharmacies in the state. Cardinal accounted for more than 146
million, or about 25 percent of the total, according to the
agency.  “We’re very pleased the DEA suspended their license,”
said Florida Attorney General  Pam Bondi , a Republican who has
advocated for tougher laws against prescription drug abuse and
set up a state task force investigating at-birth addiction.  Look ‘Carefully’  “Certainly in any case where someone’s license is pulled
by the DEA, we’d also be looking at them carefully,” Bondi said
in an interview.  Cardinal’s Lakeland center -- one of its 25 within the U.S.
approved to handle controlled substances -- distributes drugs in
Florida,  Georgia  and  South Carolina . After a federal judge
upheld the immediate suspension on Feb. 29, Cardinal switched
distribution for those states to a facility in Jackson,
 Mississippi .  Jon Giacomin, president of Cardinal’s U.S. distribution,
predicted in a Feb. 13 court filing that the current suspension
“would have an even greater impact” on the company than the
one in 2007 because the earlier case also disrupted Florida
distribution of competitors  McKesson Corp. (MCK)  and AmerisourceBergen
Corp., he said.  “Not being able to distribute controlled substances from
one location can have a detrimental effect on the whole
corporation,” said John Mudri, a former DEA official who now
runs a prescription drug consulting business. “How far that
extends will be DEA’s call.”  Ohio Food Distributor  Cardinal was founded in 1971 as a food distributor in
Columbus,  Ohio . It branched into pharmaceuticals in 1979 and
became publicly traded four years later. By 1994, Cardinal’s
annual revenue was about $6 billion, according to the company’s
website.  Since then, the company, with more than 30,000 employees
worldwide, has expanded into surgical products and pharmacy
franchising. In November 2010, Cardinal bought  China ’s largest
pharmaceutical importer, Zuellig Pharma China.  In 2007, Cardinal settled a Securities and Exchange
Commission lawsuit for $35 million over its revenue reporting
from 2001 to 2004. Three former executives, including its chief
financial officer, Richard Miller, also reached settlements with
the SEC, which accused them of lying about company finances. The
company and the executives settled without admitting or denying
the allegations.  Accounting Probe  Cardinal fired Miller, restated results and lost almost
half its market value after federal regulators intensified the
accounting probe in 2004. The company agreed in July 2007 to pay
$70 million to settle four shareholder lawsuits over issues that
included stock-option grants and its takeover of Syncor
International Corp.  Last year, Cardinal agreed to pay $8 million to settle a
false claims lawsuit with the  Justice Department  without
admitting liability. The whistle-blower suit was brought by a
pharmacy owner and a pharmacy consultant who claimed Cardinal
paid the owner $440,000 to buy drugs covered by Medicare and
Medicaid.  After the 2007 diversion case, settled before an
administrative hearing was held, Cardinal pledged to make
monthly reports on drug sales to the DEA and to hire an expert
to run a program designed to detect suspicious orders.  Justice Department  Morford joined the company in May 2008 as chief compliance
officer. His previous job was running the Justice Department’s
day-to-day operations as acting deputy attorney general,
appointed by President  George W. Bush .  At a health-care conference in 2008, Cardinal’s then-
chairman, R. Kerry Clark, told analysts that the company’s
regulatory compliance “has not been where we want it to be and
it has cost the company quite a lot of money.” Morford, who
moved up to chief legal officer the next year, would help
Cardinal become “best-in-class” in fulfilling its compliance
obligations, Clark said.  Morford’s compensation last year was $1.2 million,
including about $471,000 in salary, according to company
filings.  In 2010, the DEA told Cardinal it should take a closer look
at its Florida customers because of the state’s growing
diversion of prescription drugs, according to a court filing by
Michael Mone, Cardinal’s anti-diversion official. After Cardinal
reviewed 53 of its largest independent pharmacy customers that
November, it terminated five and reported them to the DEA and
the Florida Board of Pharmacy, he said.  Biggest Buyers  Yet when the DEA analyzed which Florida pharmacies bought
the greatest volumes of oxycodone, two of the biggest buyers
were in Sanford and supplied by Cardinal.  “I considered it to be highly suspect that two of 14
pharmacies in a city of only 53,570 residents could alone be
dispensing 7.2 million dosage units of oxycodone over an
approximately three year period,” Leonhart said in court
papers.  Cardinal shipped two CVS pharmacies in Sanford enough of
the drug to serve a city of 400,000, Clifford Reeves, a Justice
Department lawyer, said at a court hearing in Washington on Feb.
29.  The company filled orders 44 times for its top four
customers that exceeded its own limits on monthly volumes
without adequately documenting the reason, as required by
regulations, the DEA said.  CVS Stores  On Oct. 28, DEA agents visited one of the CVS stores. The
chief pharmacist told investigators that customers often
requested certain brands of oxycodone using street names such as
Ms or blues, according to a court declaration by DEA
investigator Ruth Carter. About every third car in the
pharmacy’s drive-through had prescriptions for oxycodone or
hydrocodone, she said.  Cardinal wasn’t obligated to audit CVS because the company
-- unlike independent pharmacies -- has its own compliance
programs, according to Mone’s court declaration.  Carolyn Castel , a CVS spokeswoman, said the company works
with the DEA to prevent drug abuse and had “dramatically
reduced the amount of oxycodone” sold at the two pharmacies
before their suspension. In court papers, CVS said the stores
had stopping filling prescriptions from 22 physicians.  Gulf Coast Medical Pharmacy, a top independent customer in
 Fort Myers , Florida, surrendered its license in a DEA probe, and
its owner and manager were indicted in January for conspiracy to
possess oxycodone with intent to distribute. Federal prosecutors
seized $1.9 million from six bank accounts in connection with
the case. Both are scheduled for trial in July after pleading
not guilty.  Gulf Coast Sales  From 1998 through Sept. 30, Cardinal sold Gulf Coast about
3.4 million oxycodone pills and made five visits to the
pharmacy. In April 2009, Cardinal inspector Vincent Moellering
reported that he heard the owner only accepted cash and sold
drugs by the pill.  During an October 2010 visit, Moellering and another
investigator said they saw groups come into the pharmacy with
prescriptions. At the time, Gulf Coast’s owner was seeking to
increase orders from Cardinal after dispensing about 463,000
oxycodone pills in two months. Moellering concluded the pharmacy
presented a high risk of diversion, according to his internal
report.  “I have requested permission to contact DEA,” he wrote.  Cardinal never contacted the DEA about Gulf Coast,
according to Carter’s declaration. Instead, the company
“substantially increased” monthly shipments of oxycodone to
207,200 pills from 141,000, Carter said.  Shipments Stopped  Cardinal told the appeals court in a May 2 filing that it
stopped shipping oxycodone to the two independent pharmacies
before the DEA moved against them. Both pharmacies later
forfeited their DEA licenses to handle the drugs.  Cardinal says Leonhart’s suspension order doesn’t claim
that the company “knew its customers allegedly were engaged in
diversion or that Cardinal Health acted with indifference to the
risk of diversion” or that any of Cardinal’s employees were
involved in diversion.  “To justify immediate suspension, DEA must do more than
assert that there is some unspecified flaw in Cardinal Health’s
ability to police diversion by the DEA-registered pharmacies to
which it sells controlled substances,” Randolph Moss, a lawyer
for Cardinal, said in a court filing.  The cases are Cardinal Health v.  U.S. Department of
Justice , 12-05061, and Holiday CVS LLC v. Holder, 12-05072,  U.S.
Court of Appeals , District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  