-- CBS Sues ABC Claiming ‘Glass House’ Copies ‘Big Brother’
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/cbs-sues-disney-over-claim-reality-show-copies-its-big-brother-.html
CBS Corp. (CBS)  sued  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC
network, alleging in a copyright infringement complaint that
ABC’s “Life in a Glass House” is a “carbon copy” of CBS’s
“Big Brother” reality television show.  “If imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, then CBS
should take pride in ABC’s latest reality television project,”
CBS said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in  Los
Angeles . It “replicates every key aspect of ‘Big Brother,’
including, among other things, its plot, themes, mood, setting,
pace, characters, sequence of events.”  CBS, based in  New York , said in the complaint that two
former supervising producers and a former co-executive producer
of “Big Brother,” as well as 16 other ex-producers and staff
from the hit series, are working on “Glass House” and have
disclosed CBS’s trade secrets and confidential information in
violation of their non-disclosure agreements.  ABC, Burbank, California-based Disney and three former CBS
employees are accused of copyright infringement, trade secret
misappropriation and unfair competition, among other claims. CBS
asks for a court order to halt the alleged infringement and
unspecified compensatory damages.  “We believe there is no merit to this lawsuit,” ABC
spokeswoman Hope Hartman said in an e-mailed statement. “The
differences between Glass House and Big Brother are both
fundamental and obvious, ranging from Glass House’s interactive
elements and audience participation to its deployment of cutting
edge technologies.”  The case is CBS v. ABC, 12-4073, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  