-- CGGVeritas Quarterly Loss Narrows as Seismic Rates Increase
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-05-10T12:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/cggveritas-quarterly-loss-narrows-amid-pickup-in-seismic-prices.html
CGGVeritas (GA) , the world’s largest
seismic surveyor of oilfields, said its first-quarter loss
narrowed and predicted marine services rates will improve in the
second half.  The net loss of $3 million compared with a restated loss of
$37 million a year earlier, the company said today in a
statement. Revenue climbed 8 percent to $787 million on
increased equipment sales.  “Prospects are good,” Nicolas Royot, at analyst at
Portzamparc, said by phone. “Price increases could be seen in
third-quarter results.”  CGGVeritas, which conducts seismic studies and sells
equipment to estimate the size of oil and natural-gas deposits,
has said it expects business to pick up this year as  oil
companies  raise spending on exploration and production. The
company was hurt by political uprisings in Libya and parts of
the  Middle East  as well as the slowdown in the  Gulf of Mexico 
following the worst U.S. oil spill in 2010.  The backlog “is significantly increasing, confirming the
recovery in demand for the high-end seismic equipment and
services market,” Chief Executive Officer Jean-Georges Malcor
said in the statement. Prices for marine survey contracts are
“strengthening” from last year when orders in the second half
were signed at “historic low prices.”  Market Tripled  The global market for seismic equipment and surveys tripled
to about $15 billion from $5 billion in 1999, he said. The
French company has a market share of about 65 percent for
equipment and 25 percent for marine and land surveys.  Demand could materialize this year in  India , Myanmar, the
eastern and western coasts of Africa and  Brazil , according to
Malcor. Growth could also come from seismic surveys of the
Marcellus shale formations in the U.S., he said.  CGGVeritas reported a group operating margin of 7 percent,
compared with 3 percent a year earlier. The company has forecast
revenue growth of 10 percent to 15 percent this year and $150
million in additional operating income.  The company’s backlog rose to $1.565 billion from a
restated $1.218 billion at the end of the first quarter in 2011.
“We are about 40 percent covered for the fourth quarter, which
is good visibility compared with last year,” Malcor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  