-- Chevron Brazil Spill Shows Drillers Still Trip in Crises
-- B y   P a u l   M .   B a r r e t t   &   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-05-10T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/chevron-brazil-spill-shows-drillers-still-trip-in-crises.html
Last Nov. 7, something went wrong at
a deep-sea oil well operated by  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  230 miles (370
kilometers) northeast of Rio de Janeiro.  As a massive drill bit punctured reservoir N560, roughly
3,500 feet beneath the ocean floor, monitors revealed pressure
much higher than technicians expected. The next day a routine
flyover of the field, called Frade, in the Campos Basin,
revealed oil on the water’s surface.  Chevron dispatched remote-controlled submarines, which
found oil seeping through fissures on the sea floor directly
above N560. The blowout preventer, a three-story-tall valve
assembly, automatically cut off oil flow at the wellhead. This
would not become another BP Plc disaster, in which the blowout
preventer notoriously failed, Bloomberg Businessweek reported in
its May 14 issue.  Still,  George Buck , president of Chevron’s  Brazil 
subsidiary, ordered the Frade well shut down. Chevron sent 18
vessels in rotation to contain the oil on the surface, and it
readied pyramid-shaped steel caps to cover the seepage points.
Workers completed the job in just four days. Buck saw the
situation as under control. And technically, it was.  A petroleum engineer in his mid-forties, Buck has an MBA
and has worked for Chevron for 23 years. He is 6-foot-5,
slender, soft-spoken, and earnest to the point of social
awkwardness. He arrived in Brazil in 2009, having worked from
 Alaska  to  Texas  to  Indonesia . He lives with his family in Rio’s
fashionable Ipanema beach district. He is not a man about town.  After three years in Brazil, Buck speaks little Portuguese,
relying heavily on translators. Nevertheless, on the Frade
spill, Buck thought he had made himself quite clear.  `Full Responsibility’  “Chevron takes full responsibility for this incident,” he
said at a press conference in Rio on Nov. 21. At a congressional
hearing in Brasília two days later, he added, “Sincere
apologies to the Brazilian people and the Brazilian
government.”  Brazilian politicians and journalists were not placated.  “We’re going to show this gang that they can’t come down
here and create whatever environmental mess they want,” Carlos
Minc, a co-founder of Brazil’s Green Party and environmental
secretary of Rio state, told the newspaper O Globo. “I want to
see the CEO of Chevron swim in that oil.”  Local Greenpeace activists doused the door of Chevron’s Rio
office with black ink. “Chevron: your mess, our loss,” read
one protester’s placard. “There is no doubt that an offense
occurred,” declared Fabio Scliar, chief of the Brazilian
federal police department’s environmental division. “What
interests me now is determining the responsibilities.”  Environmental Lawsuit  In December, Eduardo Santos de Oliveira, a Brazilian
federal prosecutor, answered the police investigator’s question
when he sued Chevron for the equivalent of $11 billion for
alleged environmental damage.  Twelve weeks later a Brazilian navy plane spotted a second
oil sheen above a different section of Frade, and on Mar. 21,
Oliveira filed criminal charges against Buck and 16 other
employees of Chevron and its main drilling contractor.  The contractor, Transocean Ltd., had operated the Deepwater
Horizon rig that exploded in the  Gulf of Mexico  in April 2010,
killing 11 men and spewing 4.9 million barrels of oil.  The Frade spill, by contrast, was capped at 2,400 barrels,
according to Chevron. There were no injuries at Frade, no
contaminated fisheries, no dead turtles, and no oil on shore --
the slick moved out to sea and broke up swiftly.  Even so, a judge acting at Oliveira’s request ordered the
Chevron and Transocean defendants not to leave Brazil and had
their passports confiscated. The accused, mostly veteran
expatriates, include six Americans, as well as citizens of
France, Australia, Canada and the U.K.  `Contamination Bomb’  “Chevron and Transocean have caused a contamination bomb
with a prolonged effect,” Oliveira said, as he filed charges
against the 17. An outspoken career prosecutor who under
Brazilian law enjoys tenure in his influential civil service
position, he alleged “crimes against the environment” --
namely, that the defendants knew they were drilling in a high-
pressure reservoir, recklessly proceeded anyway and caused
severe ecological harm. Oliveira has said that if convicted, the
defendants could face prison terms as long as 20 or 30 years.  Kurt Glaubitz , a Chevron spokesman based at company
headquarters in San Ramon,  California , calls the charges
“outrageous and without merit.” Chevron, he said, “will
vigorously defend the company and its employees.”  Transocean likewise says that neither it nor its workers
did anything wrong.  Sued Again  Yet Oliveira wasn’t done. In early April he sued again,
escalating his total damages claim to $22 billion. A company
that tried to respond responsibly to a regrettable but
noncatastrophic accident was blindsided, says Rafael Jaen
Williamson, who handles public affairs for Chevron in  Latin
America . “There was among our guys a puzzlement.”  For all its global reach and technological sophistication,
the second-largest U.S. energy company after Exxon Mobil Corp.
in market capitalization didn’t have an effective plan for a
sudden and multifront assault that included populist protest,
political posturing, and criminal prosecution for -- in
Chevron’s view -- cleaning up after itself.  Part of the blame rests with Chevron’s  top executives  in
Brazil. The company represented itself in a critical foreign
market with a surprisingly provincial American face. Buck, by
all accounts a talented and exacting internal corporate leader,
is not the statesman Chevron needed to explain the Frade
accident to Brazil’s media.  Bungled Public Relations  There was more to the crisis, though, than bungled public
relations. Chevron got caught up in Brazilian political
crosscurrents having little in particular to do with the U.S.
company but revealing much about the delicate state of Brazil’s
burgeoning oil industry.  “They were the wrong company in the wrong place at the
wrong time,” says Denis Palluat de Besset, managing director of
the Brazilian unit of the French  oil company  Total.  During a coffee break at an industry conference at an
oceanside Rio resort, Besset says he sympathizes with his U.S.
rivals. “In Brazil,” he adds, “this could happen to any of us
at this moment.”  Frade (pronounced FRA-dje) refers to a fish found off the
Brazilian coast. The project became Chevron’s when it bought
Texaco Inc. in 2001. Chevron operates the $3.6 billion venture
and owns 51.7 percent of it.  Frade Partners  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , or Petrobrás, the Brazilian state
oil company, owns 30 percent; a Japanese consortium, the
remaining 18.3 percent.  Frade produced its first oil in 2009; until its recent
troubles, it generated 79,000 barrels a day from 11 wells.  The mysteriously elevated pressure encountered in reservoir
N560 in November occurred in an “appraisal” well, which is one
still being explored and not yet producing.  How Chevron made this mistake--misjudging the conditions in
an undersea oil pool--has not yet been determined. The company
says it’s studying the incident, as are Brazilian regulators.  Regardless of whether these investigations find negligence,
the Frade episode demonstrates once again that deep-water
drilling is a risky enterprise. Ph.D.s aren’t omniscient; their
computer models aren’t flawless.  The unanticipated pressure led to a surge of petroleum that
cracked the well bore, allowing oil to escape upward toward the
ocean floor in tiny rivulets.  Remain Mum  For the initial four days after discovering the accident,
Chevron had almost nothing to say in public in Brazil.
Executives at the company’s collegiate San Ramon, California,
campus instructed Buck to focus on the leaking oil and remain
mum until he and his colleagues had a sense of what had
happened. The Brazilian media took immediate and disapproving
note of Chevron’s lack of disclosure.  When Buck finally emerged to make a series of public
appearances, he delivered lengthy engineering and geology
lectures in English to reporters who don’t speak his language.
At times, he was visibly flustered when journalists shouted
questions in Portuguese. He admitted to colleagues he was out of
his depth. “I’m just a driller,” he said privately after one
heated encounter.  “We didn’t necessarily put our best foot forward in some
of the communication,” Chevron Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer John Watson conceded during a conference call with U.S.
securities analysts on Jan. 27.  Ecuador Comparison  Nor did the company seem to appreciate that it has a
tainted reputation among environmental activists throughout
Latin America because of an unrelated case in  Ecuador .  In February 2011 an Ecuadorian judge imposed an $18.2
billion contamination judgment on Chevron concerning past
activities of Texaco in the Amazon rainforest. Chevron has lost
an initial appeal in Ecuador and is continuing to fight the
enormous verdict, alleging it was the product of fraud.  According to one Brazilian oil industry lawyer, the
Ecuadorian case has been “inspirational” to activists
elsewhere in the region who dream of winning their own
multibillion-dollar victory against a multinational.  Buck, for one, still seems baffled. Chevron’s lawyers won’t
let him sit for a formal interview, but he amiably agrees to a
handshake and brief chat in his spotless corner office. He’s
trying to go about his usual business in Rio, but it’s clearly
no fun living under a cloud of official condemnation. “When you
figure out what happened here,” he says, “please let me
know.”  Chevron’s Antagonists  Chevron’s antagonists in Brazil gained real momentum in
March, after the second seepage created the impression that the
company’s Frade operations were out of control. Yet, the
incident in March may turn out to be nothing at all. According
to Chevron, the event generated a surface sheen of only a single
barrel, and occurred three kilometers away from the November
spill, above a separate reservoir that had not been drilled.  The November and March incidents, the company says, seem to
have been unrelated. The much smaller amount of rogue oil
discovered in March was more degraded, suggesting it had been in
the water longer. It also lacked any trace of drilling mud, a
heavy industrial fluid used in appraisal and production. The
March mini-sheen, in other words, may have been entirely
natural; searching for natural seepage is part of the oil-
prospecting business.  Frade Shut-Down  All the same, Chevron voluntarily shut down the entire
Frade field -- the largest such moratorium in the company’s
history -- to allow geologists to determine why they failed to
anticipate the high pressure in reservoir N560.  Chevron “has coordinated with Brazilian authorities at all
stages and will continue to work with them until the incidents
are fully resolved,” it says on its website. The company has
exchanged voluminous information with Brazilian environmental
and oil-industry regulators, and those agencies have announced
likely fines on the order of tens of millions of dollars (a
prospect that surprises no one involved).  So far, though, it appears unlikely that penalties of this
scale will satisfy Chevron critics such as Minc and Oliveira, no
matter how hard the company tries to resolve the overblown
scandal.  As Brazil’s first oil spill controversy following the 2010
Gulf of Mexico disaster, Frade has raised questions about
whether the country would back away from deep-sea exploration or
distance itself from foreign producers. At a March 13 meeting
with securities analysts, Chevron’s Watson said the company
wants to be “a player in Brazil for a long time.” He hedged,
though, adding, “it remains to be seen.”  Offshore Commitment  In Rio, São Paulo, and Brasília, though, there is no
indication that the nation’s leadership or the majority of its
citizens are rethinking their commitment to offshore oil or to
some involvement of foreign energy companies.  Brazil is not Argentina -- where last month the government
expropriated the Spanish company  Repsol YPF SA (REP) ’s stake in the
petroleum producer YPF -- let alone Venezuela under the virulent
anti-American rule of Hugo Chávez.  Along with Chevron and Total, Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
Statoil ASA, and BP are all present in Brazil. With more than
800 employees in the country, 90 percent of them locals, Chevron
has the most substantial presence of any of the foreigners. The
very scale of Brazil’s hydrocarbon supply, along with a
spreading anxiety about the country’s ability to exploit the
resource safely and efficiently, helps explain Chevron’s
situation.  ’Presalt’ Bonanza  In 2007, Brazilian geologists made the biggest oil find in
the Americas in three decades. Five miles below sea level, and
beneath a shifting layer of cretaceous salt deposits, the
discoveries have been estimated at 50 billion to 100 billion
barrels.  These “presalt” oil beds are spread over an area the size
of  New York  State. Frade is not a presalt field, although it’s
close to the 2007 find.  Already a commodity titan -- the world’s biggest exporter
of beef, coffee, sugar, and orange juice -- Brazil suddenly had
the potential to become a global leader in energy as well. Then-
president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva declared that the presalt
opportunity demonstrated that “God is Brazilian.” His
successor,  Dilma Rousseff , a former energy minister who was
chairman of Petrobrás for seven years during Lula’s
administration, has called the reserves her nation’s “passport
to the future.”  ’Illusion of Limitless Resources’  Norman Gall, executive director of the Fernand Braudel
Institute of World Economics, a corporate-funded think tank in
São Paulo, worries that oil-fueled euphoria has bred in the
Brazilian political class “the illusion of limitless resources
on the horizon.”  Gall points to a Lula cabinet statement issued after the
2007 discoveries that described the presalt fields as promising
“extremely low exploration risks and great profitability.”  This notion of easy prosperity propelled enactment of
nationalistic legislation requiring Petrobrás to be the sole
operator of all “strategic” presalt reservoirs and to own at
least 30 percent of the projects. In a prescient 2011 paper,
Gall warned that these obligations will “strain Petrobrás’s
already stretched manpower, financial, and technical
capacities.”  Even before it begins to produce much oil from the presalt
fields, Petrobrás is struggling to keep pace with its own
ambitious plans.  $225 Billion Expansion  Last year it announced a five-year, $225 billion expansion
program. Yet 2011 marked the first year in eight that Petrobrás
slowed capital expenditures, laying out 5.1 percent less than it
did in 2010. Operating under strict local procurement rules, it
has had difficulty acquiring sufficient Brazilian-made vessels,
pipelines, and drilling gear. Its costs are rising faster than
predicted, and its refineries are overextended. In the fourth
quarter of 2011 these problems contributed to a 52 percent drop
in net income, to $2.9 billion.  The stock market has signaled concern: Petrobrás shares
traded publicly in New York have declined by a third over the
past year, to less than $22 apiece. Rather than grapple with the
tremendous operational challenges accompanying accelerated oil
development, many Brazilian politicians are distracted by how to
divide up the anticipated profits, Gall says. “They’re not
focused at all on the operations of the oil industry or whether
the industry is trying to do too much too quickly.”  Reduce Royalties?  The Brazilian Congress is considering legislation that
would reduce future royalties flowing to coastal oil-producing
states and redistribute the money among all 26 Brazilian states.  Under the proposed law, the states of  Rio de Janeiro  and
Espirito Santo could lose billions of dollars a year. Rio
state’s governor has threatened a court challenge if the bill is
enacted. Not long after the Brazilian Senate approved the
royalty redistribution plan in mid-October, 150,000 people
marched in protest through the streets of Rio de Janeiro.  It was amid this turmoil and uncertainty that the accident
in the Frade field occurred. In Brazil, Gall argues, “there is
a tendency to project out, to push the blame out, as a way not
to think about difficult problems, like whether we have thought
through carefully all the risks of presalt.” Chevron made
itself an easy target.  For an official known for public vehemence, Oliveira comes
across in an interview at the Federal Prosecutors’ Office in Rio
as open, friendly, and eager to explain himself. He brings with
him a pair of public-relations aides and a junior lawyer. In
every case, he says, he follows the facts wherever they take
him.  Oliveira on Oliveira  “My professional career, since 1984, has always been
through competitive selection,” he says. “I never got a job
through political decisions.” Although based in the city of
Campos in the state of Rio, he says he has no interest in the
debate about distribution of oil royalties. He also points out
that he helped investigate a notorious incident in 2001, when a
Petrobrás offshore platform called P-36 exploded as a result of
equipment failure, killing 11 workers.  Oliveira says he’s not grandstanding by threatening foreign
oil workers with prison. Criminal behavior demands stern
punishment, he says.  “There is no nationalism or xenophobia.” As for his
demand for tens of billions of dollars in damages, he points out
that “Chevron has every right to dispute this figure, to try to
adjust the size.”  Chevron Refutes  Previously, he has stressed the scope of ecological damage;
in the interview, he focuses on the “incalculable” structural
damage he alleges that Chevron caused the Frade field. “Our
concern is that the geology of the field has been compromised.”
Chevron says this isn’t so and that it intends to resume
exploration and production in Frade.  Without prompting, the prosecutor announces what seems like
big news: He plans to add another major U.S. company as a
defendant in his multibillion-dollar suit.  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the oil services company, he claims,
failed to use sufficient steel piping and cement in doing what’s
known as completion work on the well that leaked. Asked about
this allegation, a Chevron spokesman says it’s incorrect.  While Halliburton did help finalize construction of other
wells at Frade, the well was plugged before Halliburton’s
services were needed, according to Chevron. A Halliburton
spokeswoman likewise says the company wasn’t involved in the
completion work at the well.  Shoot From Hip?  Queried the next day, Oliveira says he saw Halliburton’s
name in a police investigative report on the Frade accident. He
is continuing to study the contractor’s exact role. His shoot-
from-the-hip style, however, leaves Oliveira’s intentions toward
Halliburton unclear.  “Brazilian politics and business are not easy to
understand from the outside,” says Luis Octavio da Motta Veiga.
A lawyer for oil, mining, and banking interests, Motta Veiga
formerly headed the Brazilian equivalent of the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. Twenty-two years ago he served briefly
as chairman of Petrobrás. While he has no direct involvement in
the Frade matter, he contends that Brazilian attitudes toward
environmental threats vary according to the alleged violator.  “Petrobrás owns 30 percent of Frade [and] has had eight
small spills in the past year, and I have heard nothing about it
in terms of protest,” the attorney notes. “It is easier to
complain about the foreigners rather than Petrobrás,” Brazil’s
flagship corporation, a source of national pride, and a funder
of numerous cultural causes.  Headline-Generating Cases  As for Oliveira, Motta Veiga says, the U.S. has no
equivalent official. As a tenured civil servant, Oliveira cannot
be dismissed as someone motivated by lust for campaign
contributions or reelection. This species of prosecutor,
however, makes a name by bringing headline-generating cases,
often framed in the most extreme terms imaginable, with the
widely held expectation that in due course the judicial process
will winnow down the allegations and damage claims.  “He can ask for the highest damages possible,” says
Claudio dell’Orto, president of the Rio State Magistrates
Association. “Then, with the evidence, the value gets
adjusted.”  In recent weeks the situation got even more complicated.
Going after Chevron, it’s become clear, will have collateral
consequences. The controversy has been a factor in the delayed
bidding process for the presalt  oil fields , which will be the
first round of offshore licensing in Brazil since 2008.
Originally scheduled for late 2011, the globally awaited auction
is now expected in 2013 at the earliest.  New Leak  Petrobrás on March 30 spoke for the first time about the
Frade affair. In a Brazilian regulatory filing, the company
warned investors that it theoretically could bear some liability
for the accident and called Oliveira’s gigantic damage estimates
“unreasonable.”  Chevron on April 7 announced that while investigating the
ocean floor near Frade, it found a small amount of oil leaking
from the sea bed of a Petrobrás-controlled field called Ronador
-- this was the last in the series of minor Petrobrás leaks to
which Motta Veira referred. This alert was met by a lack of
excitement among Brazilian journalists and public officials.  Two days later, on April 9, while accompanying President
Rousseff on an official state visit to  Washington , Petrobrás CEO
Maria das Graças Foster commented on the Frade spill and
Chevron. “We have a very good partnership in Brazil,” she said
at an event at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “but they are the
operators, so they need to give the official answers.”  First Welcome News  Finally, on April 11, Chevron received its first welcome
news in the matter when a Brazilian federal judge denied a
request from the prosecutor Oliveira to suspend the company from
operating in the country as part of his multibillion-dollar
suit.  Chevron said in a statement it “acted diligently and
appropriately, and in accordance with the best practices in the
oil industry.” The denial of the injunction suggests the
judiciary will examine the legal actions against Chevron and its
employees with appropriate skepticism, says David Meiler, a
partner with Felsberg & Associates, a Rio law firm that
represents drilling contractors but is not involved in the Frade
case. “This is actually an opportunity for the judiciary to
demonstrate its independence,” Meiler adds.  In early May the judge allowed Buck and four other foreign
workers to leave Brazil on the condition that they return to
face the still-pending criminal charges.  Barring evidence of malfeasance, Meiler predicts that none
will go to prison. All charges against one Chevron employee have
already been dropped, the company says.  For the moment, the threat still hangs over them, and the
Brazilian legal system grinds slowly.  “This is going to take forever, unfortunately,” Meiler
says. Oliveira, the prosecutor, explains that in Portuguese,
“forever” translates into “five, six, 10 years.” 