-- Chi-East to Close Operations After Disappointing Volumes
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-05-10T11:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/chi-east-to-close-operations-after-disappointing-volumes.html
Chi-East Pte Ltd., the dark-pool
stock operator jointly owned by  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  and Chi-
X Global Inc., is closing down after trading volumes failed to
meet its expectations.  The last day of trading for Chi-East will be May 24, the
company said in a  notice  posted on its website today.  Chi-East 
allowed clients to transact stocks listed in  Singapore , Hong
Kong and  Japan  without publicly displaying quotes or names of
parties. It had planned to expand into Australia.  Dark pools have grown more slowly in  Asia  than in the U.S.
and Europe because of regulatory hurdles. Fewer than 2 percent
of transactions in the region occur through dark pools,
according to Greenwich Associates, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based
researcher. That compares with 13.5 percent in the U.S. and 4.6
in  Europe , according to data compiled by Rosenblatt Securities
Inc.  “For those in support of competition in the Hong Kong and
Singapore stock markets, it is clearly an unfortunate
development that the only non-broker trading alternative is
closing,” said Jessica Morrison, head of Asia Pacific market
structure at  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  “The low numbers of members,
combined with the costs associated with running such a platform,
meant it could not get the liquidity needed to be a lasting
contender.”  Instinet Inc., Deutsche Bank, Morgan Stanley, Nomura
Holdings Inc., UBS AG,  Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG) ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc were
among the institutions using Chi-East’s services.  Weak Prospects  “The launch of Chi-East directly corresponded with a
period of slower market volumes globally,”  Singapore Exchange 
said in a statement today. “Although trading volumes were
improving, they were still far short of expectations. Due to
commercial considerations and expectations of continued
relatively weak business prospects, the decision was taken by
the board of Chi-East to cease operations.”  Chi-East opened in November 2010. It last published volume
figures for the quarter ending September2011, when the value of
shares traded on the system increased to $71.1 million from
$23.5 million in the previous quarter.  Chi-X Global is owned by Instinet. In October, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Getco LLC, Morgan Stanley, Bank of America
Corp. and Quantlab Group LP all bought stakes in the company,
which operates Chi-X Canada, Chi-X Japan and Chi-X Australia.
The branches in Canada, Japan and Australia differ from Chi-East
in that they are so-called lit venues, which display bid and
offer prices.  Peak Volumes  Peak volumes for the other three platforms have been 11.6
percent for Chi-X Canada on April 25, 3.7 percent of volume for
Chi-X Japan on January 16, and 3 percent for Chi-X Australia on
May 4, according to Beth Haines, spokeswoman for Chi-X in  Hong
Kong .  “We would like to thank you enormously for your support of
Chi-East and while we all wish we could have had a different
outcome we hope that Chi-East has managed to positively affect
the growth of alternative trading venues in the region, and that
you as clients have seen some benefits from it,” Chi-East said
in a  statement  on its website today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  