-- Chile Peso Rises as Chinese Data Boosts Copper Prospects
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-05-10T19:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/chile-peso-rises-as-chinese-data-boosts-copper-prospects.html
Chile ’s peso rose for the first time
in three days as Greek efforts to form a new government and a
decline in U.S. jobless claims pushed up copper, boosting trade
prospects for the metal’s biggest producer.  The currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 486.25 per  U.S.
dollar  after touching 491.85 yesterday, the weakest intraday
level since March 7.  Copper, which accounts for more than half of Chile’s
exports, rose as much as 1.5 percent in  New York . Greece’s
 Evangelos Venizelos , the socialist Pasok party leader and former
finance minister, said his goal was to form a government that
will ensure the nation remains in the euro area. U.S. claims for
 unemployment benefits  fell last week to the lowest in a month.
 China ’s lagging exports and imports encouraged speculation the
biggest customer of Chilean copper will move to spur growth.  “After two difficult days, the markets are calmer and
copper is recovering,” said Alejandro Araya, a currency trader
at Banco Santander Chile in Santiago. “The peso is back in the
481 to 490 range after testing it yesterday.”  The peso often gains against the dollar on Thursdays, a day
when exporters sell U.S. currency to buy pesos with which to pay
salaries and contracts. Since the start of 2008, the peso has on
average gained 0.12 percent against the dollar on Thursday while
trading little changed or weakening on other days of the week.  “On Thursday the peso generally appreciates because of
local corporate flows, mainly from miners,” Araya said.  Chilean banks and brokers bought $551 million of U.S.
dollars from May 3 to May 8, data published today by Chile’s
central bank show. Offshore investors had a net long dollar
forwards position of $6.8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  