-- Asia Exports Slowdown Adds Pressure for Growth Measures
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-05-10T06:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/china-exports-imports-rise-at-slower-pace-than-forecast.html
An Asian export slump exacerbated by
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and an uneven recovery in the
U.S. is putting pressure on policy makers to pledge stimulus
measures to boost growth.  China ’s exports rose less than estimated in April, while
Philippine shipments unexpectedly fell in March, reports showed.
Malaysia said today  industrial production  expanded in March at
less than a fifth the pace economists predicted, a day after a
report showed exports fell for the first time since 2009.
Downside growth risks remain “significant,” the Bank of  Korea 
said today as it held  interest rates  for an 11th meeting.  Growth prospects for export-dependent Asian nations are
under threat following an inconclusive Greek election that
increases the risk of a worsening European debt crisis and a
slowdown in China and disappointing U.S. jobs data damp the
outlook for global demand. Gains in the  yuan  against the dollar
have ground to a halt this year, while India and Australia have
lowered borrowing costs more than forecast at their most recent
meetings in attempts to bolster their economies.  “We are seeing entrenched weakness and it is going to be a
bumpy ride for Asian exports” amid easing demand from Europe,
said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.
in  Singapore . “Our sense is that many Asian central banks have
only suspended, not yet conclusively terminated, the easing
cycle for this year. As external headwinds pick up, we think
there will be scope for further and in most cases, modest policy
easing.”  Stock Slump  Asian stocks are heading for their worst week in almost six
months as political changes in France and growing instability in
 Greece  threaten to derail austerity plans and worsen Europe’s
debt crisis.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  was little changed as
of 1:30 p.m. in  Tokyo  after closing at its lowest since January
yesterday.  Diminishing European demand as the euro region veers toward
a recession is particularly troubling for countries from
Thailand to South Korea, where shipments make up the equivalent
of half or more of gross domestic product. Asian countries need
to create more demand in the region, rather than relying heavily
on export-driven growth, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said in a
speech prepared for a forum in  Seoul .  China’s overseas shipments rose 4.9 percent from a year
earlier, the customs bureau said on its website today. That
compares with the 8.5 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 33 analysts. Import growth of 0.3 percent trailed
forecasts for a 10.9 percent gain.  ‘Weak’ Outlook  “The European weakness will continue to weigh on China’s
export growth in the coming months,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief
China economist for Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong . China may
have to loosen policies further as the export outlook remains
“weak,” with a potential cut in banks’ reserve requirements
this month and an increase in fiscal spending during the
quarter, he said. Pressure for yuan appreciation will be limited
by an anticipated narrowing in the  trade surplus , Zhang said.  South Korea will take action to stabilize financial markets
if needed as uncertainty has risen over Europe due to recent
elections in France and Greece, Bahk said.  The  Bank of Korea  kept its benchmark seven-day repurchase
rate unchanged at 3.25 percent, as predicted by all 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Indonesia’s central bank held
its key rate at 5.75 percent today. Production at Malaysian
factories, utilities and mines gained 0.6 percent from a year
earlier after rising a revised 8.2 percent in February, the
statistics department said today.  Shipments Slide  Philippine shipments abroad declined 1.2 percent from a
year earlier, the  National Statistics Office  said, compared with
a median estimate in a Bloomberg survey for a 10.1 percent
increase. The central bank will consider the export performance
when deciding its monetary policy stance at its June meeting,
Governor Amando Tetangco said.  In Europe, the  Bank of England  is expected to halt bond
purchases at 325 billion pounds ($524 billion), ending a second
round of stimulus, according to 43 of 51 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey, with the remainder expecting see an
increase of at least 25 billion pounds. The official bank rate
will be kept at 0.5 percent.  France  may say manufacturing
production fell in March from February, while the U.K.’s
probably increased in March, surveys showed.  Jobless Claims  U.S. jobless claims may be little changed at 368,000 in the
week ended May 5 from 365,000 in the preceding week, according
to the median of 47 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The U.S.
trade deficit probably widened in March as imports rebounded,
with the gap at $50 billion from $46 billion in February,
another survey showed.  Export orders signed at the Canton Fair, a trade show in
the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou that ran from mid-April
to May 5, fell 2.3 percent from a year earlier, the first
decline for the semiannual event’s spring exhibition since 2009.  The decline may prompt the government to cut banks’ reserve
requirements and boost the construction of low-income housing
and funding for infrastructure projects, Bank of America Corp.
economists Lu Ting and Hu Weijun said in a note May 7.  China’s trade this year is more balanced than in 2011,
Xinhua News Agency reported May 8, citing Commerce Minister  Chen Deming . The trade surplus accounted for 2.8 percent of GDP in
the first few months of this year, he said at a meeting in
Jiangsu province on May 7, according to the report.  LG Chem Ltd. (051910) , South Korea’s biggest chemicals maker, last
month reported a worse-than-estimated 42 percent decline in
first-quarter profit as demand in China waned for materials used
to make plastic and synthetic rubber.  “ Asia  has been relying mostly on exports to advanced
economies for growth so far,” South Korea’s Bahk said. “It’s
now time for Asia to generate more demand within the region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  