-- China’s Big Banks Look More Like Paper Tigers
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-05-10T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/china-s-big-banks-look-more-like-paper-tigers.html
After spending time combing through
the financial reports of  China ’s biggest publicly traded, state-
owned banks, I now understand what  Jim Chanos , the famous short-
seller, means when he keeps saying they are “built on
quicksand.” He’s definitely on to something.  Start with  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the
world’s most valuable bank, at least on paper, with a $238
billion  market capitalization . Much of its capital consists of
the remnants of bad loans dating to the 1990s, which ICBC now
calls receivables. One such receivable represented about a third
of ICBC’s  shareholder equity , as of Dec. 31. It was scheduled to
start coming due in 2010 but wasn’t repaid, and still sits on
ICBC’s books at its original value.  At the same time, ICBC has been reporting torrid, almost
cartoonish, growth since going public in 2006. Total assets,
about half of which are loans, rose 15 percent last year to 15.5
trillion yuan ($2.5 trillion).  Earnings (1398)  jumped 26 percent to
208.4 billion yuan.  It has been quite a transformation. At the end of 2004,
before its most recent restructuring by the Chinese government,
Beijing-based ICBC said about 21 percent of its loans were
nonperforming. Today the same  bank , which is 71 percent state-
owned, classifies less than 1 percent of its loans that way.  New Skills  You can choose to believe that latest figure if you like.
Either the Chinese government has become extremely skilled at
lending in a very short time, and Chinese borrowers have become
even better at repaying. Or the numbers are too good to be true,
in which case the quality of the bank’s capital matters a great
deal, as a gauge of its ability to absorb losses. If nothing
else, a look at the receivables at ICBC and other large Chinese
banks provides insights into what passes for normal in the
country’s banking system. Everything is a big circle.  The largest receivable at ICBC is a 313 billion- yuan  asset
called “Huarong bonds.” The  footnotes  to ICBC’s latest annual
report say they were issued to ICBC starting in 2000 by China
Huarong Asset Management Corp., an asset-management company
established by China’s finance ministry. The bonds’ book value
hasn’t changed over the years.  After ICBC bought the bonds, Huarong used the cash to buy
nonperforming loans from ICBC at full face value, cleansing
ICBC’s books. In short, ICBC swapped bad loans for bonds backed
by the loans’ new owner. The old loans didn’t really go away.  Perhaps not surprisingly, ICBC wasn’t repaid its principal
when the Huarong bonds began to come due 10 years later in 2010.
Instead, ICBC received a notice from the  finance ministry  saying
the maturity dates had been extended by another 10 years.  ICBC has said the ministry “will provide support for the
repayment” if Huarong can’t make good, citing a separate 2005
notice. Such a notice isn’t the same as a guarantee, however,
which is a point that  Carl Walter  and  Fraser Howie  made in their
acclaimed 2011 book, “ Red Capitalism ,” about the frailty of
China’s banking system. The bonds are non-transferable, meaning
they can’t be sold. Maybe ICBC will get paid eventually, maybe
not. The  finance ministry  owns 35 percent of ICBC’s shares. A
state-owned  investment company  holds another 35 percent.  At Beijing-based  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , a
receivable from the finance ministry represented 474.1 billion
yuan, or 73 percent, of shareholder equity, as of Dec. 31. A
2008 notice from the ministry said the amount would be “settled
annually over a period of 15 years.” At least there, the
ministry has been paying the bank’s receivable down.  A year earlier, Ag Bank showed the same asset at 568.4
billion yuan, which was 5 percent more than its equity then. It
got the  receivable  as part of its last restructuring, in 2008,
in exchange for transferring bad assets to the finance ministry.  Cleaning Up  As recently as 2007, Ag Bank classified about 24 percent of
its loans as nonperforming, compared with 1.4 percent last
quarter. After cleaning up its books, the company went public in
2010, raising $22.1 billion in the largest IPO ever. The bank,
which is 83 percent state-owned, now has a $141 billion market
cap. Last quarter alone, Ag Bank’s total assets rose 7.6 percent
from their Dec. 31 level to 12.6 trillion yuan.  Similar receivables reside at China’s other Big Four banks,
 Bank of China Ltd.  and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , though the
amounts there aren’t as large. Before their restructurings
almost a decade ago,  Bank of China  and China Construction
classified about 16 percent and 17 percent of their loans as
nonperforming, respectively. Now both show about 1 percent.  The warning signs about China’s construction boom and
state-owned banks have been evident for years. News reports of
 local-government  financing vehicles that  can’t repay  their loans
are so  abundant , they are hardly surprising anymore. The Big
Four banks each have set up loan-loss reserves ranging from
about two to three times the size of their nonperforming loans,
which probably are understated to begin with. Those reserves
wouldn’t be enough should loan losses return to historical
norms.  Charlene Chu, a Beijing-based analyst for  Fitch Ratings ,
wrote in a Dec. 2  report  on Chinese banks that “Fitch expects
the authorities to continue a selective policy of forbearance
and liquidity support for borrowers, including loan rollovers
and restructurings, new loans, and bond issuance.” As a result,
“asset quality issues may not fully appear in NPL
(nonperforming loan) ratios until well into a deterioration, if
at all.” By the time any big problems show up in the banks’
numbers, the jig will be up.  The hard part is figuring out the timing. Foreign
shareholders would suffer the brunt of any losses should the
government need to inject capital or restructure the banks
again. The banks would survive, though. The Chinese government
is like  Wall Street  in that it always pays itself first.  In a Bloomberg Television  interview  last week, Chanos said
“the Chinese banks ought to be sending a thank-you note to
Greece and  Spain  every month for keeping them out of the
limelight.” It’s anyone’s guess how long they will stay this
way.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View :  Today's highlights: the View editors on solving  Europe 's
 employment woes  and the  futures  of  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ;
Stephen L. Carter on the overuse of the word " emergency ";
Virginia Postrel on Amazon's move into  high fashion ;  Jonathan
Alter  on  human capital and venture capital ; Tom Valasek on
Ukrainian  politics and soccer ; Gerald M. Rafshoon on  Mitt
Romney and Jimmy Carter .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  