-- China Confidence Unshaken by Bo Crisis in Global Poll
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-11T09:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/china-confidence-unshaken-by-bo-crisis-in-global-poll.html
China’s deepest political turmoil
since 1989 has failed to shake confidence in the strength of its
economy and allure of its markets, a Bloomberg poll indicated.  A 51 percent majority are confident in the policies of
President  Hu Jintao , the quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of
investors, analysts and traders who are subscribers showed. The
share was the same as in January, unaffected by the aftermath of
former Chongqing Communist Party boss Bo Xilai’s March ouster,
which clouded the outlook for this year’s once-in-a-decade
leadership change.  China’s economy  will either improve or remain stable this
year, according to 68 percent of respondents, with the share
anticipating a deterioration falling to 30 percent, the lowest
level since the question was first included in the poll in
September. Bo’s exit may prove positive by helping to rein in
the type of debt-fueled growth that drove Chongqing’s expansion,
according to Redward Associates Ltd.  “Chongqing highlighted that you can accelerate growth
temporarily by ramping up debt and by driving state-directed
capitalism,” said  Peter Redward , 40, principal of Auckland-
based Redward, an ex-head of  emerging markets  Asia research at
 Barclays Capital  and participant in the poll. “A growth model
of less state-owned enterprise and bank-directed  growth  and more
private enterprise and social welfare is the way forward.”  Leadership Goal  The latest survey of 1,253 Bloomberg customers was
conducted May 8, eight weeks after Bo’s removal from his
Chongqing post ended his campaign to join the Communist Party
Politburo’s standing committee. The party is anticipated to pick
its new leaders in the final months of the year.  The wife of the suspended Politburo member, Gu Kailai, is
suspected of involvement in the alleged murder of a U.K.
businessman. Bo’s former police chief, Wang Lijun, took refuge
in a U.S. diplomatic mission in February amid the investigation
into the Briton’s death.  Bo’s downfall triggered the biggest political crisis since
 China ’s 1989 Tiananmen Square protests, with the affair shining
a spotlight on influence and corruption at the top echelons of
power in a nation where per-capita income ranks 121st out of 215
countries, according to the  World Bank .  While as boss of Chongqing, China’s largest municipality,
Bo rated a salary of about 10,000 yuan ($1,585) a month, the
family amassed a fortune of at least $136 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Headline Noises’  “Even though there are some headline noises, as time goes
by, it will fade away as long as China’s economy achieves
sustainable growth,” said Sangwook Lee, senior fixed income
portfolio manager with Shinhan Bank in Seoul and a poll
participant. Lee, 42, predicted the leadership selection will
proceed without disruption, as Vice President  Xi Jinping 
“smoothly” takes over from President Hu.  Only 5 percent of respondents saw a big risk of political
instability in the coming year, the poll showed.  The nation is more likely to pursue market-friendly
policies without Bo’s influence, Lee said. He said he’s deeply
underweight on  Europe , neutral on the U.S., and overweight on
China,  Australia  and South Korea, relative to the benchmarks he
uses to gauge performance.  China’s financial markets were rated second by Bloomberg
subscribers for being among the best performers over the next
year, after the U.S., the poll showed.  About 72 percent of the 54 percent of respondents who have
dealings in Chinese securities said neither Bo’s ouster nor the
diplomatic crisis over  Chen Guangcheng  had affected their
assessment of the nation’s investment climate. About 7 percent
said they’re reducing investment.  Stock-Market Gains  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks has risen
8.9 percent so far this year, compared with the 8 percent gain
for the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a 5 percent advance
in the MSCI World Index of equities. China’s  yuan  dipped 0.3
percent against the dollar over the period.  “Perhaps there are some schisms developing within the
ruling elite,” said Nijaz Brkich, an analyst at Wellard Group
in Perth, Australia, and poll participant. “But as it stands
today my confidence in China isn’t affected.”  American tensions with China will remain the same as they
are now should President Barack Obama be re-elected, according
to 72 percent of those polled. A 43 percent plurality saw ties
worsening should Republican candidate Mitt Romney defeat Obama
in November, with 40 percent seeing no change.  ‘Saber Rattling’  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in an interview
this week that the benefits of expanded U.S.-China contacts were
demonstrated in working out a deal on Chen, a blind legal
activist who escaped house arrest and entered the U.S. embassy
in Beijing last month. China has indicated it will allow Chen to
travel to the U.S. to study law, according to American officials.  “There will be more saber rattling at China” should
Romney take office, said Andrew Sullivan, 50, a principal trader
at Piper Jaffray Asia Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong and poll
participant. “From my reckoning he’s not huge on international
cooperation.”  Romney has criticized Obama for failing to press U.S.
interests enough, saying he would label China a manipulator of
its  exchange rate  and apply tariffs wherever needed “to stop
them from unfair  trade  practices.”  Investors still are more confident in Hu’s government than
Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s. Only 26 percent of
those polled are optimistic about  Japan ’s policies, compared
with 22 percent in January. The outlook for Japan’s  Nikkei 225
Stock Average (NKY)  was also downbeat, with 31 percent expecting it to
rise over six months and 24 percent seeing a drop. Sentiment
toward the MSCI Asia Pacific Index was stronger, with 42 percent
projecting a gain and 23 percent a decline, the poll showed.  Growth Slowdown  China’s political turmoil has coincided with weaker
expansion, with gross domestic product rising 8.1 percent in the
first quarter, the least in almost three years. It was the fifth
quarterly deceleration, as Premier Wen Jiabao maintains a
clampdown on the  property market  and stunted demand growth in
developed nations limits Chinese exports.  Data released today show China’s slowdown is deepening.
Industrial  production  grew at the smallest pace since 2009 in
April, retail sales rose less than estimated and inflation was
below target, boosting speculation Wen will take steps to
stimulate the economy.  Any so-called hard landing for China would present a low-to
medium-threat for the global economy over the next year,
according to 76 percent of those polled. Such a scenario
typically has China’s GDP rising less than 5 percent, raising
the danger of social unrest.  Shift Toward Consumption  China will accelerate its shift away from a dependence on
export-led growth toward a greater reliance on domestic
consumption, according to 45 percent of respondents. At the same
time, only 13 percent expect the next group of leaders to speed
up market-based reforms and increase dismantling of state-owned
enterprises.  Bo’s focus on state-led infrastructure projects helped
Chongqing’s economy expand 16.4 percent last year. Total
borrowing in the municipality may exceed 100 percent of its
regional domestic product, according to Victor Shih, a professor
at  Northwestern University  in Evanston,  Illinois , who has
studied local government debt.  By comparison, China as a whole has a ratio of 43 percent,
U.S. Central Intelligence Agency data show. The low level of
national indebtedness gives policy makers scope to counter any
downshift to a hard-landing scenario.  “The central government has a huge amount of room to
adjust policy to soften the landing,” said Andrew Swarbrick, 48,
head of cash trading in  Hong Kong  at HSBC Holdings Plc., who
participated in the poll. “Data will improve by the end of
2012.”  China’s growth, even if slowing, presents an opportunity
for investors, according to Leo Wong Wing Chiu in Hong Kong.  “No single event can change China’s outlook,” said Chiu,
32, head of prime brokerage at China Merchants Securities (HK)
and a poll participant. “You can’t leave China if you look for
the land of opportunities in our generation. You need to take
risks when the market is weak.”  The Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted by Selzer & Co., a
Des Moines, Iowa-based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or
minus 2.8 percentage points.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  