-- Christie’s 10% Tax Cut Imperiled as N.J. Revenue Slumps
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/christie-s-10-tax-cut-imperiled-as-n-j-revenue-slumps.html
Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican
whose budget hinges on the biggest revenue gain since before the
recession, may need to scale back a spending increase or abandon
his tax-cut plan as  New Jersey  revenue comes up short.  Preliminary reports show receipts from income and corporate
taxes trailed Christie’s targets last month and may come in
lower than April 2011 collections, according to a memo sent to
lawmakers by the nonpartisan Legislative Services Office. The
note, obtained by Bloomberg News, said complete figures will be
available May 14.  Any drop in revenue this year may “spill over” into
fiscal 2013, which begins in July, and that may lead lawmakers
and Christie to retool their fiscal plans, said Assemblyman John Burzichelli, a Democrat who serves on the budget panel. He said
it’s premature to conclude cutbacks are warranted. Christie has
proposed a 10 percent across-the-board cut in income taxes.  “I’m an optimistic person and I would like very much for
the governor’s projections to be achieved, but the recovery is
fragile,” Burzichelli, who is also the mayor of Paulsboro, said
yesterday by telephone. “Everything’s in play.”  Christie, 49, has traveled the Garden State to tout the
beginning of a “Jersey Comeback.” His budget forecast April
receipts to rise compared with the same month last year. His
proposed fiscal 2013 spending plan counts on a 7.3 percent
increase in revenue, which would help fund tax cuts.  Dozens of Surpluses  If April collections trail expectations, New Jersey would
join a minority of U.S. states, including  Connecticut ,
 California  and  New York  that have reported revenue missing
forecasts, according to a survey by the Denver-based  National
Conference of State Legislatures . New Jersey, joining  Indiana ,
 Arizona  and more than two dozen others, has projected ending the
year with more cash than budgeted, the group said May 3.  The $32.1 billion fiscal roadmap Christie proposed in
February would boost spending by $2.4 billion in fiscal 2013. It
includes $8.8 billion for education, $213 million more than
under the current plan, and a record $1.07 billion in payments
to pensions. Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff declined to
disclose April revenue data, saying his office will release the
figures early next week. New Jersey’s budget year ends in June.  “We are currently reviewing and analyzing April state
revenues in the context of the complete year-to-date fiscal
picture,” said  Michael Drewniak , a Christie spokesman. “With
two months left of revenue collections and potential revisions
before the end of the fiscal year, we need to look at the total
revenue picture before drawing broad conclusions.”  Stubborn Unemployment  New Jersey’s  jobless rate  has hovered at 9 percent or more
since June 2009, the last month of the longest recession since
the Depression. The national average fell to 8.1 percent in
April.  Nongovernment employers in New Jersey have added 60,600
jobs since touching a February 2010 low, a month after Christie
took office, according to the state Labor Department. The
governor has said the additions show the economy is moving in
the right direction.  Christie has pitched his case for the across-the-board
rollback in personal income levies in public meetings statewide,
while leading legislative Democrats have countered with proposed
property tax-based credits. The debate over the dueling measures
shows the state recovery is stirring, Christie said yesterday
during a town meeting at a National Guard armory in Freehold.  Going Right Way  “It isn’t happening fast enough,” he said. “We still
have too many people out of work, but it’s getting there and
we’re making progress and moving in the right direction.”  Assemblyman Vincent Prieto, a Secaucus Democrat, said he
wasn’t satisfied with Sidamon-Eristoff’s pledge to provide April
revenue data next week. The department gets daily figures and
should release its most-recent April numbers, he said.  “The ‘Jersey Comeback’ is basically just a myth at this
point in time and we need to get past those sound bites,”
Assembly Budget Committee Chairman Vincent Prieto, a Secaucus
Democrat, said yesterday in an interview.  “Is it a substantial number? I don’t know,” he said. “We
need to see the whole big picture.”  A drop has the potential to force lawmakers to reconsider
every spending item in Christie’s budget, Prieto said.  April typically produces the largest monthly income-tax
collections because it includes the annual payment deadline for
most filers. Sidamon-Eristoff, in an April 16 statement, said
revenue for the month would be “key in helping the
administration maintain this positive momentum.”  Required Balance  The fiscal 2012 spending plan calls for a year-end balance
of $580 million on June 30, Prieto said. Any drop in revenue may
lower the state’s 2013 starting balance and make Christie’s tax
cuts difficult, he said.  Among Democrats, Senate President Stephen Sweeney has
proposed giving residents a credit for 10 percent of their
property levies. Assembly leaders would raise that to 20
percent, funded partly with an increased  tax rate  on incomes of
$1 million or more. Christie has said revenue growth alone will
cover his cut and that he’ll veto a so-called millionaire tax.  The governor’s 2013 spending plan relies on “optimistic”
revenue assumptions,  Standard & Poor’s  credit analysts said in a
February report.  David Rosen , the Legislature’s chief budget
analyst, said in March that receipts may trail forecasts for
2012 and next year as income and casino levies fall short.  March collections missed estimates by $46.4 million, or 2.5
percent, according to the treasury, driven by income-tax revenue
that trailed by 6.4 percent. Receipts for the nine months
through March were 0.3 percent less than forecast.  “My gut feeling is that the numbers aren’t so bad that
we’ll have to make any cuts” to the current budget, said
Assemblyman Declan O’Scanlon of  Red Bank , the ranking Republican
on the budget panel. “We’ll just have to wait and see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  