-- Christie Vetoes New Jersey Health-Care Exchange Legislation
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-05-10T17:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/christie-vetoes-new-jersey-health-care-exchange-legislation-1-.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
vetoed legislation to create a state health-care exchange,
calling it premature to enact the measure while questions of
constitutionality are pending with the U.S. Supreme Court.  Key tenets of President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care
overhaul, including its individual mandate and requirement for
states to establish the exchanges, may be invalidated, Christie,
a first-term Republican, said in a statement today.  New Jersey’s Democratic-controlled Legislature passed the
measure in March, 10 days before the nation’s highest court
began three days of hearings on challenges to the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, which requires Americans to
obtain health insurance. Christie had declined as recently as
May 8 to say whether he’d veto the bill.  “I am concerned that a hastily created exchange in New
Jersey will impose unnecessary obligations upon the state’s
taxpayers,” Christie, 49, said in the statement. “The very
constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act is cloaked in
uncertainty.”  State Legislation  Fourteen states and  Washington , D.C., as of April 13 had
established health-care exchanges and 19, including New Jersey,
were studying options, according to the Henry. J. Kaiser Family
Foundation, based in  Menlo Park ,  California .  Christie said the bill would have committed New Jersey to
establishing a new health-care program for individuals earning
as much as 200 percent of the poverty level without guarantee of
federal funding to support it. He also said the process of
certifying participating plans would have limited the number of
them involved, and he opposed a $50,000 salary for board members
of the new exchange.  Assemblyman Herb Conaway, a Democrat and physician who
sponsored the legislation, said Christie’s veto has “hurt
chances of fully benefiting from federal health-care reform.”  “I am disappointed that Governor Christie put national
political pressures ahead of the well-being of New Jersey,”
Conaway said in a statement. “His actions have once again shown
his complete disregard for our most vulnerable populations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  