-- Climbing Income Ladder Easier in New Jersey Than Texas, Pew Says
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-05-10T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/climbing-income-ladder-easier-in-new-jersey-than-texas-pew-says.html
A week after the  Occupy Wall Street 
movement protested economic inequality in May Day rallies across
the U.S., a study found that the ability to become rich may
depend on where you live.  Residents of three East Coast states --  Maryland , New
Jersey and New York -- were the most likely to move up the
earnings ladder from the bottom and the least likely to fall
from the top, according to a study released today by Pew
Charitable Trusts, a nonpartisan research organization based in
 Washington . Louisiana,  Oklahoma  and South Carolina had the worst
prospects for so-called economic mobility.  “This shows that the American dream and equality of
opportunity differ from state to state,” Diana Elliot, research
manager at Pew’s Economic Mobility Project, said in an
interview. “This is yet another indicator that leaders and
policy makers have at their disposal to understand how their
state measures up.”  The report, the first gauge of economic mobility at the
state level, adds context to the debate over America’s image as
a land of opportunity amid growing income inequality. It follows
past Pew studies showing that Americans trail their Canadian and
European counterparts in their ability to improve their
financial standing.  Census Data  Pew used confidential data from the Census Bureau and
 Social Security Administration  on the inflation-adjusted
earnings of more than 60,000 people born between 1943 and 1958.
The analysis then compared participants’ average earnings over a
five-year period in their 30s to those in their 40s.  The report measured how states’ residents stacked up
against the national average on so-called absolute mobility,
which compares earnings growth over time, and relative mobility,
which examines whether people’s position along the income
spectrum rose or fell compared with their peers.  Maryland, New Jersey and New York scored above-average on
all three measures, followed by Connecticut, Massachusetts,
 Pennsylvania , Michigan and Utah, which did so on two. Louisiana,
Oklahoma and South Carolina scored the worst on all three
gauges, followed by Alabama,  Florida , Kentucky, Mississippi,
 North Carolina  and Texas.  Determining why states or regions performed the way they
did was beyond the study’s scope, said Elliot, who worked on the
report with Erin Currier, who oversees the Economic Mobility
Project. Important drivers of economic mobility at the national
level include educational attainment, savings and assets, and
neighborhood poverty during childhood, she said.  On an individual level, people who moved from the state in
which they were born had better-than-average financial mobility,
the study found. More than two-thirds of Americans remain in
their birth states throughout their lives, Elliott said.  The most recent data the study used was from 2007, so it’s
unclear what impact the recession that began in December of that
year may have had since, Elliot said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  