-- Cobalt Remains Committed to Angola After Minister’s Comments
-- B y   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-05-10T23:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/cobalt-remains-committed-to-angola-after-minister-s-comments-1-.html
Cobalt International Energy Inc. (CIE) , the
offshore oil explorer  backed  by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , says
it’s committed to developing oil prospects in Angola’s pre-salt
basin after the government said it was free to leave.  “We are committed to continue working with Sonangol and
our partners for the benefit of Angola, its people and our
shareholders,” Michael Greenberg, a company spokesman based in
Houston, said by telephone from Washington D.C.  Cobalt can exit Angola if its business there is tarnishing
its reputation,  Manuel Vicente , who moved in January from
chairman of state oil company Sonangol EP to Minister of State
and Economic Coordination, said today. The Houston-based company
is under investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and the U.S. Justice Department after saying in
February there were “allegations of a connection” between
local partner Nazaki Oil & Gas SA and “senior Angolan
government officials.”  The Angolan government approved the contracts with Cobalt
for helping develop two offshore blocks, Vicente told reporters
in Luanda.  “Cobalt is an American company and is subject to U.S.
laws,” Vicente said. “If Cobalt thinks that its presence in
 Angola  harms its performance and image, it has an option to exit
Angola.”  Test Results  Greenberg declined to comment on allegations in the
Financial Times newspaper April 15 that Vicente and Angolan
General Manuel Helder Vieira Dias Jr. are shareholders in
Nazaki. The connection could raise questions about compliance
with U.S. anti-bribery law, the newspaper said.  Cobalt’s value surged by a third Feb. 10 after it reported
test results from the Cameia-1 well showed a “high-quality”
oil reservoir that may have the potential to produce more than
20,000 barrels a day.  “Cobalt is proud of our business in Angola and our
industry-leading role in the discovery of a potentially
significant new petroleum province,” Greenberg said.  Energy companies such as  BP Plc (BP/) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Total
SA (FP)  are exploring below a layer of salt more than two miles
beneath the seabed off Africa’s coast. That follows success off
Brazil on the South American side of the Atlantic in finding
some of the largest fields of the last decade under the same
mineral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candido Mendes in Luanda at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net 
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Henrique Almeida at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net  