-- Coca-Cola Hellenic Profit Falls on Austerity, Commodities
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-05-10T09:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/coca-cola-hellenic-profit-falls-on-austerity-commodities-1-.html
Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Co. (EEEK) , the
world’s second-largest bottler of Coke drinks, posted a wider
loss in the first quarter as bad weather and austerity measures
in European markets hit demand.  The company’s net loss in the three months to March 31
widened to 28.4 million euros ($36.8 million) from 8.9 million
euros a year earlier, Coca-Cola HBC said today in a  statement  on
its website. The higher cost of sugar also hurt profit.  “Despite a challenging external environment, we grew or
maintained volume share in sparkling beverages, while on a
currency-neutral basis, excluding the hyperinflation impact of
Belarus, net sales revenue per case of drinks rose 3 percent,”
Dimitris Lois, chief executive officer, said in a telephone
interview today.  Excluding the cost of reorganization, the net loss was 18.6
million euros, up from a loss of 1 million euros. “We are on
target with restructuring,” Lois said.  The Athens-based company plans to book about 50 million
euros for restructuring this year, which will bring savings of
35 million euros a year from 2013, while steps taken last year
will see benefits of about 40 million euros this year, according
to the statement.  While cases of drinks sold fell 2 percent to 425 million,
as the effect of austerity measures in countries such as  Greece 
and Ireland and cold weather in central and eastern  Europe  hurt
demand, revenue rose 1 percent to 1.14 billion euros. Greece
accounts for 6 percent of sales, Lois said.  Volatile Outlook  “The economic outlook in Europe is volatile and we expect
 consumer confidence  to remain weak throughout this year,” Lois
said. There will also be “a high single-digit increase” in
input costs; however, the company is confident that managing
revenue growth will offset the impact, he said.  Higher  costs, especially that of sugar, had a greater
effect this quarter as there was a steep rise after the first
quarter of 2011, magnifying the year-on-year effect, Lois said.  The company hopes to benefit from the London Summer  Olympic
Games  and the Euro 2012 soccer championship, Lois said.  The final tournament of the soccer championship will be
hosted jointly, between June 8 and July 1, by Poland and
Ukraine, both Coca-Cola HBC territories, while another five
participating countries are also company markets.  Coca-Cola HBC reiterated capital spending guidance for
2012-14 of 1.45 billion euros and the same amount in free cash
flow generation. The company also plans to seek approval for a
share buyback program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  