-- Colgate’s Baum, Virginia’s Stanwick Top Lacrosse MVP Finalists
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-10T17:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/colgate-s-baum-virginia-s-stanwick-top-lacrosse-mvp-finalists.html
Colgate University ’s Peter Baum, who
led college lacrosse in goals and points, is one of five men’s
finalists for the  Tewaarton Award , given annually to the sport’s
best male and female players.  The other men’s finalists are University of Massachusetts
attack Will Manny, Loyola University  Maryland  attack Mike
Sawyer,  Duke University  midfielder C.J. Costabile and last
year’s winner,  University of Virginia  attack Steele Stanwick,
according to an e-mailed statement from  US Lacrosse .  The five women’s finalists are University of Florida
midfielder Brittany Dashiell, University of North Carolina
attack Becky Lynch,  University of Maryland  attack Katie
Schwarzmann, Northwestern University midfielder Taylor Thornton
and Syracuse University attack Michelle Tumolo.  This is the first time that all 10 finalists represent
different schools, according to the statement. All will
participate in the men’s and women’s  National Collegiate
Athletic Association  tournaments, which begin this weekend.  Winners will be selected following the conclusion of the
NCAA tournaments and honored at a ceremony on May 31 in
 Washington , according to the release. The selection committees
are comprised of 12 men’s and 10 women’s current and former
coaches.  Baum led college lacrosse’s top division with 64 goals and
93 points this season, setting Colgate and Patriot League
records in both categories. He is the first Tewaarton finalist
in Colgate history.  Finalists  Manny led the undefeated Minutemen in goals (43) and points
(75), while Sawyer averaged three goals per game, third-best in
the nation, for the Greyhounds, the top seed in the NCAA
tournament. Stanwick is first in the country with 45 assists,
according to the release.  Schwarzmann, a member of the 2011-12 U.S. women’s national
team and the only repeat women’s finalist, ranks third in the
nation with 63 goals. Dashiell helped  Florida  to its first
American Lacrosse Conference tournament title and the top seed
in the women’s NCAA tournament.  Thornton, also a member of the U.S. national team, had a
career-high 27 goals this season and led a Northwestern defense
that allowed the 7.63 goals per game this season, fourth-fewest
in the country. A player from the Wildcats has won the women’s
award in five of the past six years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  