-- Coty Raises Avon Bid to $10.7 Billion; Buffett Backing
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-05-10T22:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/coty-raises-offer-to-acquire-avon-products-to-24-75-a-share.html
Coty Inc. boosted its offer to
acquire  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  to about $10.7 billion and said
Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  will provide financing
as the perfume-maker seeks to kickstart negotiations with Avon.  The $24.75-a-share offer, up from a previous bid of $23.25,
is subject to due diligence and other conditions, New York-based
Avon said in a statement today that included a letter from Coty.
Berkshire will provide $2.5 billion of the more than $5 billion
in equity from BDT Capital Partners, which is backing the bid,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Coty Chairman Bart Becht is working to draw Avon into a
deal that would add a new door-to-door distribution channel for
Coty’s cosmetics and more than twice its $4.5 billion in annual
sales. Avon rejected Coty last month, saying the bid undervalued
the company and that it was working on a turnaround. Avon said
today it will consider Coty’s letter “in due course.” The
offer will be withdrawn by May 14 if Avon doesn’t enter
discussions, Coty said.  “It certainly increases the pressure now that you have
Berkshire Hathaway involved, that you have an upped bid, that
you have a deadline,”  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  New York , said in an interview.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier today that
Berkshire was providing $2.5 billion in financing.  Coty asked Buffett’s permission to use his name in the
release to send a message to Avon’s board and investors that
they were serious and show the depth of their financial and
strategic support, said people familiar with the matter.  The company established the May 14 deadline for a couple of
reasons, said these people. Becht wants to pursue an initial
public offering, a course it had been pursuing earlier this
year, if he can’t seal the Avon deal, said one of these people.  Money Tied Up  Also, investors with BDT Capital don’t want their money
tied up for weeks without any sign of resolution, said another
person. Coty will continue to press larger investors on the idea
that Avon should be able to study an independent path with its
new CEO while also starting deal talks with Coty, said these
people.  Avon fell 2.7 percent to $21.01 at 1:12 p.m. in New York.
The shares are trading about 15 percent below Coty’s offer, the
second-biggest gap among pending U.S. deals larger than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, suggesting
investors aren’t convinced the bid will succeed.  Coty’s offer still undervalues Avon, which is worth more
than $30 a share, based on sales multiples at comparable
companies such as  Estee Lauder Cos. (EL) , said Josh Strauss, co-
portfolio manager of the Appleseed Fund at Pekin Singer Strauss
Asset Management in  Chicago . Avon has potential to expand sales
in  emerging markets , Strauss, whose fund oversees 1 million
shares of Avon, said today in a telephone interview.  Berkshire Backing  Coty said in its letter that in addition to Berkshire’s
equity financing for its bid,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  would provide
debt financing.  Yesterday JAB Holdings B.V., a subsidiary of the company
that controls Coty, said it plans to sell $2 billion of  Reckitt
Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  shares to fund deals. Vienna-based Joh. A.
Benckiser SE is the majority owner of Coty.  Berkshire had $37.8 billion in cash as of March 31. The
company’s involvement may make the unsolicited offer less
threatening to Avon because Buffett prefers to be seen as
reassuring, said  Jeff Matthews , whose hedge fund Ram Partners
has a long position on Avon.  ‘Listen Up’  “I don’t think there’s any better way to get Avon’s
attention than to say, ‘I’ve got the smartest investor in the
world, with the deepest pockets in the world behind me, listen
up,’” said Matthews, who is also the author of “Secrets in
Plain Sight: Business & Investing Secrets of  Warren Buffett .”  Buffett agreed in 2008 to help finance Mars Inc.’s purchase
of Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co. for about $23 billion. Berkshire acquired
$4.4 billion of 11.45 percent Wrigley subordinated notes and
$2.1 billion of 5 percent Wrigley preferred stock.  Berkshire has invested in other consumer-products
companies, and counts Johnson & Johnson and Procter & Gamble Co.
among its 10 largest stockholdings, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. J&J, the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based maker of
Band-Aids, is the world’s second-largest seller of health-care
products. Cincinnati-based Procter & Gamble Co., the maker of
Pampers diapers and Gillette razors, is the world’s largest
consumer-products company.  Berkshire, based in Omaha,  Nebraska , prefers to invest in
companies “possessing a powerful world-wide brand,” Buffett
said in a letter to shareholders in 2008, citing Gillette as an
example.  Cosmetics Deals  There have been about 280 takeovers in the cosmetics and
toiletries industry in the past decade, the largest being  P&G (PG) ’s
$57.3 billion takeover of Gillette Co., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The median price to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization paid in almost 30
of those deals was 10.8 times, in line with Coty’s new offer.  After not talking in the weeks following Coty’s offer on
April 2, advisers to Coty and Avon have in the last two weeks
begun having some conversations about Coty’s proposal, people
familiar with the matter have said. The talks, which had focused
on Coty’s concerns about liabilities at Avon and internal
departures of employees, had yet to progress toward a deal, said
the people, who declined to be named because the discussions are
private.  Coty, also based in New York, has been frustrated that Avon
shareholders haven’t pressed Avon to discuss the merger, said
one of these people.  Richmont Bid  Richmont Holdings, a closely held company that invests in
consumer brands, is working on its own bid for Avon, according
to two people familiar with the matter.  Avon last month appointed former  J&J (JNJ)  executive Sherilyn McCoy as chief executive officer to reverse three years of
profit declines and complete an investigation into its overseas
business practices. The company and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange commission are probing whether executives bribed
foreign officials in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  