-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Fall for First Time in Six Days
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-05-10T20:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-fall-for-first-time-in-six-days.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk fell
for the first time in six days as claims for  unemployment
benefits  in the U.S. declined last week, easing concern that the
labor market is faltering.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, dropped 0.7 basis point to a mid-price of
102.8 basis points at 4:57 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The swaps index decreased as initial jobless claims pointed
to a recovery in the U.S. labor market, offsetting concern over
the turmoil in Greece, where political leaders are engaged in
discussions to form a new coalition government.  “The big news of the day is jobless claims declining,
which should comfort those who are concerned about the  U.S.
economy  slipping,” said  Joel Levington , managing director of
corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New
York.  First-time claims dropped by 1,000 to 367,000 in the period
ended May 5, the Labor Department said today in  Washington .
Claims are returning to levels reached in February and March,
indicating a  surge  last month probably reflected difficulty in
adjusting the data for an Easter holiday that came earlier this
year.  New Coalition  Former Greek Finance Minister  Evangelos Venizelos  is
attempting to form a new coalition government following
elections on May 6 where no single party won an absolute
majority.  The index reached 104.6 basis points yesterday, the most
since April 10. The credit-default swaps measure typically falls
as investor confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  