-- Danske Net Rises 10% as Bank Winds Down Irish Property Loans
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-05-10T09:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/danske-profit-rises-10-as-bank-winds-down-irish-property-loans.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  said first-quarter
net income rose 10 percent after  Denmark ’s largest lender booked
higher income from lending and reduced costs. The bank will also
wind down its Irish property portfolio to combat loan losses.  Profit climbed to 783 million kroner ($136 million), the
Copenhagen-based bank said in a  statement  today. That beat the
average estimate for a 707 million-krone profit in a Bloomberg
survey of 19 analysts. The bank said it will wind down its Irish
commercial and investment property portfolio, valued at 35
billion kroner. The change will show up in the bank’s accounts
by January, it said.  “The Group expects earnings to remain low in 2012, but
because of the economic climate, the outlook is subject to
considerable uncertainty,” Danske said in the report.  Danske Bank said it plans to complete its costs cutting
plan a year earlier than previously targeted, meaning the bank
will seek to reduce underlying costs by 10 percent, or by 2
billion kroner, by 2013. Danske is struggling to stay
competitive as it deals with the fallout of the burst housing
bubble and a regional banking crisis at home as well as a
collapsed commercial  property market  in Ireland. Total
impairments rose 38 percent in the period to 3.9 billion kroner,
the bank said.  ‘Structural Challenges’  “The Irish economy is expected to continue to face
structural challenges, and because of the economic climate, the
level of future impairment charges is uncertain,” the bank
said. “The situation for rental property and property
developers in  Northern Ireland  is also uncertain. Loan
impairment charges at the units in Ireland and Northern Ireland
are therefore likely to remain high, at least in the coming
quarters.”  Chief Executive Officer Eivind Kolding said the bank may
push through more than its planned 2,000 job cuts, after
announcing plans to accelerate the program.  Shares climbed as much as 5.2 percent and were up 3.6
percent at 91.55 kroner at 10:26 a.m. in Copenhagen trading. The
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index was up 0.7
percent.  “At this point we’re sticking to our plan,” Kolding said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television today. “There might
be further opportunities as we develop our strategy over the
years.”  ‘Little Visibility’  That may not be enough to boost profitability. Claire Kane,
a London-based analyst at Royal Bank of Canada, said there is
“little visibility to achieving returns in line with cost of
equity in the future.”  Andreas Hakansson , a Stockholm-based analyst at Exane BNP
Paribas, said “if this is the big restructuring that the market
has been expecting, it doesn’t seem to come together with any
cost savings. They continue to reiterate the flat cost target,
which the market has already more than priced in. I don’t think
the new restructuring adds much to the investment case,” he
said in a phone interview.  Danske continues to face a number of hurdles in some of its
main markets. Ireland is still relying on an international
bailout to stay afloat while Denmark’s economy entered a
recession in the third quarter as investments and  government
spending  shrank. Gross domestic product contracted 0.1 percent
both in the third and fourth quarters of last year, Copenhagen-
based  Statistics Denmark  said March 30.  Housing Collapse  Danish  house prices  fell an annual 9 percent in February,
the country’s statistics agency said last month, and by next
year real estate values will have dropped 25 percent from their
peak in 2007, the government-backed Economic Council said in
November. The Financial Supervisory Authority said Feb. 6 it
will tighten regulations for reporting loan losses to boost the
industry’s “credibility” after what it called “optimistic”
outlooks by banks. The rules took effect this quarter.  Danske Bank’s group net interest income, the difference
between what the bank earns from lending and what it pays on
deposits, rose 11 percent to 6.2 billion kroner in the quarter,
while its total income grew 5.7 percent to 12.4 billion kroner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  