-- DeNA, Gree Rise After Agreeing to End Sales Method: Mover
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-05-10T00:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/dena-gree-rise-after-agreeing-to-end-sales-method-tokyo-mover.html
DeNA Co. (2432)  and  Gree (3632)  Inc., Japan’s two
biggest social-gaming operators, rose in Tokyo trading after
agreeing to stop offering a feature scrutinized by regulators,
who said charges to use it were in some cases excessive.  DeNA climbed as much as 9.9 percent to 2,127 yen, while
Gree advanced as much as 8.9 percent to 1,623 yen. The two
Tokyo-based companies were among six Japanese game operators who
announced yesterday they will abandon the “complete gacha”
system by May 31.  Gree and DeNA each plunged more than 22 percent in the
previous three trading days as Japan’s Consumer Affairs Agency
said it may impose regulations restricting the sales method. The
decision to abandon the feature eases concerns that the industry
will be subject to new regulations or legal risks, Credit Suisse
Group AG said in a report.  “This resolves the market’s major concerns at present, so
we expect a sense of reassurance,” Yuki Nakayasu, a Tokyo-based
analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in the report.  The consumer agency plans to issue an opinion on “complete
gacha” next week at the earliest, Hirohiko Fukushima, secretary
general of the agency, said yesterday. The agency has said games
with the feature entice users with an appeal that’s similar to
gambling.  Virtual Tokens  “Complete gacha” users pay about 300 yen ($3.76) apiece
for virtual tokens that can be converted to a more valuable
virtual item if the player obtains the right combination or a
“complete” set.  Gacha is the Japanese word for vending machines that
dispense miniature toys or prizes in plastic capsules without
showing the contents beforehand. Buyers take a chance they will
receive a desired item after inserting coins and turning a knob.  One “complete gacha” user’s charges totaled 4 million yen
in two months, according to the minutes of the consumer agency’s
panel meeting in February. Some users also offer virtual items
on auction sites, the panel said.  “There may be a need for some regulation, as children get
charged hundreds of thousands of yen a month” to obtain special
virtual items, Fukushima said yesterday.  A ban on “complete gacha” could reduce Gree’s net income
by 18 percent and DeNA’s by 6 percent, according to David Gibson, a Tokyo-based analyst at Macquarie Securities Ltd.  New Revenue Sources  Gree said this week it almost  tripled profit  in the three
months ended March 31 as it drew users to games, including those
with the “complete gacha” feature, on its own online social
network.  The company forecasts net income may total between 44
billion yen and 50 billion yen in the year ending June 30.
Although the impact of ending the sales method may be limited,
Gree may revise earnings estimates if necessary, it said in a
statement yesterday.  “With the move to scrap the highly profitable complete
gacha games across the entire industry, companies need to find
new sources of revenue as a matter of priority,” Credit
Suisse’s Nakayasu wrote.  DeNA’s revenue may not decline this fiscal year from last
year, President Isao Moriyasu said yesterday.  Japan ’s social-gaming market may expand 33 percent from a
year earlier to about 343 billion yen this fiscal year, Yano
Research Institute Ltd. forecast in January. That would be 70
times the 4.9 billion-yen market in 2008, according to estimates
by the researcher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  