-- Danske Bank’s Patience With Moody’s Evaporates
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-05-11T09:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/denmark-s-banks-endure-writedown-shock-delaying-recovery.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  Chief Executive
Officer Eivind Kolding signaled  Denmark ’s largest lender is
losing patience with Moody’s Investors Service less than a year
after the bank’s mortgage arm sacked the rating company.  “We disagree quite a bit with Moody’s here in Denmark,”
Kolding said in an interview yesterday after the Copenhagen-
based bank reported earnings.  Including Danske’s mortgage unit, Realkredit Danmark A/S,
three lenders in the Nordic country have fired Moody’s, arguing
the company’s assessments are based on faulty models.  Jyske Bank
A/S (JYSK) , Denmark’s second-biggest listed lender, said last month
it’s reviewing its relations with Moody’s as disgruntlement
among the country’s lenders spreads.  Denmark’s financial industry is struggling to emerge from
the fallout of a burst real estate bubble and higher funding
costs after the February 2011 failure of Amagerbanken A/S pushed
losses on to senior creditors. The so-called bail-in prompted
Moody’s to assume a lower degree of support from the Danish
state to banks facing insolvency, putting lenders in the Nordic
country at a disadvantage to their  Scandinavian rivals .  “Moody’s has a view that the systemic support in Denmark
is less than in  Sweden , which is in our mind wrong,” Kolding
said. “They don’t get the systemic support in Denmark right.”  Counterproductive  Moody’s is looking into cutting the credit grades of eight
Danish lenders, including Danske, as part of a review of 114
European banks. Any ratings cuts now would be counterproductive
as Denmark shows signs of emerging from its twin housing and
banking crises, Kolding said. Danske’s  issuer rating  at Moody’s
is A2, with a negative outlook.  “It’s a negative review at the point when we are actually
moving in the right direction,” Kolding said. “The Danish
economy is slowly progressing. We are at zero growth now, but
the bigger issues are behind us.”  Danske’s shares have gained 22 percent this year,
outperforming a 0.5 percent decline in the 43-member Bloomberg
index of European banks. Danske stock fell 0.8 percent today to
88.65 kroner at 11:24 a.m. in Copenhagen trading.  Denmark, which fell into a  recession  in the third quarter,
will grow 1.2 percent this year, the central bank estimates.
 House prices  have already lost about 23 percent of the aggregate
25 percent the government-backed Economic Council estimates will
have fed through the  property market  by next year since the
crisis started in 2007.  Moody’s Criticism  Moody’s in June criticized Denmark’s $470 billion  mortgage-
bond industry , the world’s third largest after the U.S. and
 Germany , for failing to curb refinancing risks fueled by a
mismatch in funding and lending maturities. The ratings company
said this week that risks in agricultural lending and falling
property prices are damaging Danish banks’ credit profiles.  Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s biggest mortgage lender and
 Europe ’s largest issuer of covered bonds backed by home loans,
terminated its contract with Moody’s on April 13, citing its
“volatile” views. Mortgage lender BRFKredit A/S dropped the
rating company in October. Realkredit Danmark, the country’s
second-largest home-loan provider, fired Moody’s in June. Jyske
Bank Head of treasury Steen Nygaard said last month the rating
company has “crossed the line for fairness,” adding the bank
“simply cannot follow Moody’s arguments.”  Still, Denmark’s banks continue to face growth in
impairments this year, according to  Standard & Poor’s . It
estimates total loan losses at the country’s lenders swelled to
155 billion kroner in the four years through 2011, with another
30 billion kroner in writedowns yet to be taken. Danske
accounted for almost half the industry’s bad loans, S&P said.  Job Cuts  Danske’s impairments rose 38 percent to 3.9 billion kroner
last quarter as it continued to lose money on its Irish
business. Kolding, who took over as CEO from  Peter Straarup  in
February, will wind down Danske’s Irish commercial property
portfolio, valued at 35 billion kroner, as the bank tries to
contain losses.  The Financial Supervisory Authority said Feb. 6 it will
tighten regulations for reporting loan losses to boost the
industry’s “credibility” after what it called “optimistic”
outlooks by banks.  Danske will also bring forward cost reductions, meaning
2,000 jobs earmarked for elimination will be cut by 2013 instead
of 2014, it said yesterday.  “At this point we’re sticking to our plan,” Kolding said.
“There might be further opportunities as we develop our
strategy over the years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  