-- Deutsche Telekom Profit Tops Estimates on Europe Recovery
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-05-10T15:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/deutsche-telekom-profit-tops-estimates-on-t-mobile-usa.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Europe’s second-
largest telephone company, reported earnings that beat analysts’
estimates as a decline in European revenue slowed and the T-
Mobile USA unit boosted profitability.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization excluding some items slipped 0.1 percent to 4.48
billion euros ($5.8 billion) in the first quarter, the Bonn-
based company said today. The profit compares with the 4.4
billion-euro average  estimate  of 21 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue dropped by a smaller-than-projected 1.1
percent to 14.4 billion euros.  T-Mobile USA, the unit that’s trying to hold onto its
subscribers after a botched sale to  AT&T Inc. (T)  last year,
increased profit as prepaid clients helped offset the loss of
510,000 contract customers in the quarter. Deutsche Telekom is
discussing a merger of the division with  MetroPCS Communications
Inc. (PCS)  as it reviews options for the business, people familiar
with the matter said.  “The stabilization in the adjusted Ebitda is astounding,”
said Wolfgang Specht, an analyst at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf,
Germany. “It’s something special when a European operator
doesn’t report a decline.”  Cable Rivalry  Deutsche Telekom climbed 3 percent to 8.80 euros in
Frankfurt trading, the steepest increase since Jan. 2. It is
still down about 21 percent in the past 12 months, compared with
a 13 percent  decline  by the 19-company Bloomberg Europe
Telecommunication Services Index.  The operator confirmed its full-year forecasts. As the
European debt crisis reduces demand for phone services and cable
operators such as  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  win over fixed-
line clients, Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  is focusing
on improving profitability in Germany and seeking revenue from
new businesses such as mobile-health services and smart grids.  Deutsche Telekom reported higher revenue for some European
countries before currency swings and regulatory effects,
including Hungary and Poland, where it also added mobile
customers. The revenue decline across the region slowed to 2.6
percent from 3.6 percent in the previous quarter. In the U.S.,
adjusted Ebitda rose 8 percent to $1.29 billion, while the
 margin  advanced 2.5 percentage points to 25.6 percent.  Telecom Italia, BT  “This was a very satisfying quarter for us,” Obermann
said in a statement. “We have made significant progress in many
areas.”  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ,
have for the past years been counting on markets such as  Latin
America  and Africa to drive revenue growth. Telecom Italia
yesterday reported profit and sales that topped estimates,
boosted by growth in Brazil and Argentina.  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the largest U.K. fixed-line operator, today
increased its dividend forecast after fourth-quarter operating
profit exceeded estimates.  Madrid-based Telefonica, Europe’s biggest phone company, is
scheduled to report earnings tomorrow.  Telefonica added 2.9 percent in Madrid, Telecom Italia
slipped 0.5 percent in Milan. BT lost 2.6 percent on the London
exchange.  Deutsche Telekom, Germany’s former phone monopoly, forecast
in February that adjusted Ebitda will drop this year to about 18
billion euros from 18.7 billion euros, while free  cash flow , an
indicator of future dividend payments, will dip to about 6
billion euros from 6.4 billion euros.  Dividend Pledge  Still, the company maintained its pledge to pay
shareholders 70 cents a share for last year, even as Telefonica
and  France Telecom  have announced plans to trim their payouts.  The first-quarter  net income  was 238 million euros, after
480 million euros last year, Deutsche Telekom said. The result
was lowered by about 300 million euros in special effects,
including charges related to early  retirement plans . It also
included depreciation on  T-Mobile USA  assets, which was
suspended last year because of the pending disposal of the unit.  The German company’s efforts to keep costs down suffered a
setback as it yielded in the past two weeks to demands for pay
increases of 6.5 percent for almost 70,000  employees  in the
country. Wage talks for workers at the T-Systems corporate-
client division will continue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  