-- Deutsche Bank to Pay $202 Million Over Mortgage Fraud
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-10T21:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/deutsche-bank-to-pay-202-3-million-in-mortgage-fraud-accord-1-.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  agreed to pay
$202.3 million to settle civil claims that its MortgageIT unit
lied to qualify thousands of risky mortgages for a federal
insurance program in what the U.S. called a “massive fraud.”  The U.S. claimed in a lawsuit filed May 3, 2011, that
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank and MortgageIT falsely certified
that they properly assessed the default risk of borrowers,
qualifying loans for insurance by the Housing and Urban
Development Department’s  Federal Housing Administration .  The bank admitted to some of the conduct alleged in the
complaint, according to a statement today by the office of U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan . The U.S. sued under the
 False Claims Act , which permitted it to seek triple damages and
penalties.  “MortgageIT and Deutsche Bank treated FHA insurance as
free government money to backstop lending practices that did not
follow the rules,” Bharara said in the statement.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  approved the settlement
today, according to the statement.  “We are very pleased to have reached this settlement, for
which we have already fully reserved, and to put this issue
behind us,”  Renee Calabro , a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement. “This marks a significant step in
resolving our mortgage-related exposures.”  ‘Highly Marketable’  MortgageIT endorsed more than 39,000 loans for FHA
insurance since 1999, making them “highly marketable for
resale,” the U.S. said in its complaint. The FHA paid insurance
claims on more than 3,200 of the mortgages, for a total of more
than $368 million, according to the government. Another 7,500
mortgages, with unpaid principal balances of $888 million,
defaulted without HUD paying any claims yet, according to the
complaint.  Deutsche Bank bought MortgageIT in January 2007 for $429
million. The unit was closed in 2009.  After the acquisition, MortgageIT Chief Executive Officer
Doug Naidus oversaw mortgage origination in Deutsche Bank’s
residential mortgage-backed securities group, the government
claimed in its complaint.  In the settlement, Deutsche Bank admitted responsibility
for MortgageIT’s failure to maintain an adequate quality control
program, its violation of HUD and FHA regulations, its
endorsement of loans that weren’t eligible for FHA mortgage
insurance, and other violations, according to the U.S.
Attorney’s statement.  False Claims Settlements  Deutsche Bank admitted that it was in a position, after
acquiring MortgageIT, to know that the unit’s operations didn’t
comply with federal regulations, the U.S. said.  The agreement with Deutsche Bank is the largest of three
False Claims Act settlements reached by Bharara’s office with
banks alleged to have engaged in reckless mortgage lending, for
a total recovery of $493.4 million, according to the statement.  The government settled lawsuits in February with
CitiMortgage Inc., Citigroup Inc.’s home-loan unit, for $158.3
million and with  Flagstar Bancorp Inc. (FBC) ’s Flagstar Bank FSB unit
for $132.8 million. A suit by the U.S. against Allied Home
Mortgage Corp. is still pending.  The case is U.S. v. Deutsche Bank AG, 11-cv-2976, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  