-- Dewey Partners Weren’t All Told of Pay Guarantees, Lawyer
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r ,   A n t h o n y   P a c c h i a   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-10T21:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/dewey-partners-weren-t-all-told-of-pay-guarantees-lawyer.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, which is trying
to stay out of bankruptcy by collecting bills to pay lenders,
didn’t tell some senior executives the extent of guaranteed pay
packages, said the firm’s former real estate group chairman.  “We knew there were guarantees but I don’t think anyone
imagined that it was 100,” former Dewey partner Stuart Saft
told Bloomberg Law in an interview today. “We thought it was 20
to 25. I was shocked when I learned how many there were. I am
still surprised and shocked that it was such a high number.”  Dewey gave guarantees to about one-third of its 300
partners, according to a person with knowledge of Dewey’s
compensation system. The firm is on the hook for well over $100
million in those guarantees, according to another person with
knowledge of Dewey’s financials.  Dewey continually guaranteed compensation for partners who
had been at the firm as much as 20 years, one of the people
said. As much as 80 percent of the firm’s compensation was
guaranteed, the person said.  Saft has left the New York-based law firm and moved to
Holland & Knight LLP, taking several associates with him, he
said.  Dewey’s collapse has left a lot of partners angry and
confused about what really happened, he said.  Acrimony and Anger  “There’s a lot of acrimony and anger still to come,” he
said. “But do we really want to spend our time litigating with
each other?”  Dewey partners, who were getting less pay than expected as
profit fell, learned at a partnership meeting in  Manhattan  that
the firm had struck special deals with some partners who would
have to be paid before others, according to a person familiar
with those events.  Ex-Chairman  Steven Davis  said at the October meeting that
the special deals -- requiring Dewey to defer pay for most
partners -- involved about 100 lawyers, the person said. Pay at
the firm ranged from about $300,000 for junior partners to as
much as $5 million to $6 million for a handful of top lawyers,
the person said, declining to be named as he wasn’t authorized
to comment on these matters.  Davis’s lawyer, Barry Bohrer, declined to comment on
Davis’s handling of the information about pay.  Davis Ousted  Formerly sole chairman, Davis was ousted from a newly
formed five-man chairman’s office on April 29 after Manhattan
District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. started a probe into possible
wrongdoing at Dewey, according to an internal Dewey memo on
April 29 to partners that was obtained by Bloomberg.  Bohrer, a criminal defense lawyer at Morvillo, Abramowitz,
Grand, Iason, Anello & Bohrer, has said Davis believes “fair-
minded professionals will conclude that he engaged in no
misconduct.”  Not knowing what was happening in other parts of the firm
may have been attributable to the fact that Dewey had grown
after a 2007 merger to become an international law firm with
about 1,400 lawyers around the world, Saft said.  “Law firms are no longer partnerships, they’re
businesses,” he said. After Dewey’s merger, information going
to partners was restricted because of concern that headhunters
had gained access to confidential client lists and were trying
to move certain partners to other firms, he said.  In Saft’s view, Dewey’s financial woes started with the
merger during the 2007 credit crisis, and the “great
recession” that took hold in the U.S. as Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008.  “Our recently-created organization had to find a way of
surviving,” he said. Managers might not have understood how
much the world had changed, and were “using a pre-Lehman
paradigm to keep the ship afloat,” he said.  The former Dewey Ballantine and LeBoeuf Lamb Greene &
MacRae merged in October 2007 to form what was then the 11th-
largest U.S. law firm, now ranked 28th by American Lawyer after
revising revenue downward and losing more than 120 partners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Pacchia in New York at 
 apacchia1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ; 