-- Dewey & LeBoeuf Worker Suit Says Firings to Come Tomorrow
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-11T12:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/dewey-leboeuf-employee-sues-over-claims-of-mass-firings.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP was sued by an
employee over claims the  law firm  will terminate workers today
without giving them the notice required by federal law.  Dewey is set to fire about 450 employees without cause at
its New York headquarters, according to the complaint filed
yesterday in Manhattan federal court by Vittoria Conn. Workers
received a termination notice on or about May 7, according to
the complaint. Conn is seeking to sue on behalf of other
employees at the firm.  “To know that now we’re just being swept out the door is
so hurtful to me and it’s illegal,” Conn, a 55-year-old
document specialist, said yesterday in a phone interview. “We
have to have a softer landing.”  Dewey has lost more than a third of its partners since
January amid complaints about its compensation structure and
uncertainty over its finances.  The U.S. Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. said it is taking
over Dewey’s retirement plans as of today. The firm’s California
offices will close by May 15, the California Recorder and the
San Francisco Business Times reported yesterday.  Conn claims employees should have been given 60 days’
written notice of the mass firings under the federal Worker
Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act and 90 days under  New
York  state’s labor laws, according to the filing. She’s seeking
60 days’ pay and benefits on behalf of all the fired workers.  Angelo Kakolyris, a spokesman for Dewey, didn’t return
phone calls and an e-mail yesterday seeking comment on the
filing. Jack Raisner, an attorney for Conn, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment.  ‘In Limbo’  Dewey’s support staff was kept in the dark and “in limbo”
for weeks about the firm’s decline, said Conn, who has been at
Dewey since 1999. Many employees took to checking legal blogs
for news on what was going on inside the firm, she said.  “It certainly wasn’t being communicated within the firm.
It was anything but transparent,” Conn said. “We’ve been
getting really conflicting messages with a lot of sunny optimism
from the firm.”  The firm began to tell employees last week that their jobs
were in jeopardy with formal notices on May 7. Even then
management told employees that the firm would be “downsizing,”
Conn said.  Ghost Town  The 25th floor at Dewey’s headquarters has been a ghost
town for about a month, after a group of partners and associates
left en masse, Conn said. The New York office has no copy
center, no working fax machines and no mail room, she said. Most
of the secretaries have been terminated and furniture sits
wrapped in plastic on dollies in hallways, Conn said.  As of today, the firm will have no document production.
Employees are expected to clear out their final belongings in
boxes today, Conn said. Associates have been told their jobs
will end on May 15, she said. Health benefits for support staff
will expire at the end of the month, Conn said.  “If we had been told definitively you better go look we
would have gone to look,” Conn said. “Everything has been so
shrouded and kept from us.”  Conn, who spent yesterday working on a contact list for a
Moscow partner, said her final paycheck will come on May 15 for
time worked. The mother of two has been on a couple interviews
in recent days but concedes she may have to take a hardship
withdrawal from her retirement savings to help pay bills while
she looks.  “There are so many heartbreaking stories,” she said.  PBGC Action  The PBGC announced yesterday it will take responsibility
for three Dewey pension plans that cover about 1,800 people. The
agency said it’s stepping in to “secure its ability to collect
against the firm’s affiliates that share funding
responsibility” for the plans, which are underfunded by more
than $80 million, according to a statement.  PBGC will pay the shortfall up to legal limits, and has
decided the plans should expire today, it said in the statement.  Dewey co-chairmen  Jeffrey Kessler  and Richard Shutran left
May 9 to join Winston & Strawn LLP and  O’Melveny & Myers LLP .
The departures leave  Martin Bienenstock , who runs the firm’s
restructuring group, and Charles Landgraf, who runs the
Washington office, in the chairman’s office. Dewey ousted the
fifth member of the chairman’s office,  Steven Davis , after
Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. began a probe into
possible wrongdoing at the firm, according to an April 29
internal memo obtained by Bloomberg.  Bienenstock will take his practice to Proskauer Rose LLP,
the Wall Street Journal reported today on its Law Blog, citing
people familiar with the matter whom it didn’t identify. The
newspaper said it wasn’t clear whether all the firm’s bankruptcy
lawyers would go with Bienenstock or how they would be merged
with Proskauer’s bankruptcy group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  