-- Earliest Known Mayan Calendar Found in Guatemalan House
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-05-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/earliest-known-mayan-calendar-found-in-guatemalan-house.html
A 1,000-year-old house in  Guatemala ,
its interior adorned with paintings of people, numbers and
astronomical symbols, has yielded the earliest known Mayan
calendar ever found, archaeologists said.  The mural, covering three walls and a ceiling, is also the
first Mayan art discovered in a building thought to be a house,
according to the report, published in the journal  Science .  The researchers believe dates on the walls represent
astronomical cycles of Mars, Venus, and lunar eclipses for 7,000
years. That suggests Mayans had computed the sky’s events
hundreds of years before their now-famous  Codices , the
hieroglyphic manuscripts that record the civilization’s history
and chronicles. The oldest of the codices was written about
1300, according to the report.  “They’re painting it on the wall,” said William Saturno,
an archaeologist at  Boston University  and lead author of the
report, in a statement. “They seem to be using it like a
blackboard.”  The ninth-century structure was first found in 2010, by Max
Chamberlain, a student of Saturno, who had followed looters’
trails to the remote rainforest site. As for a popularly held
belief that the Mayan calendar predicts the world will end in
2012, no such sign was found in the latest discovery,
researchers said in a statement.  “It’s like the odometer of a car, with the Maya calendar
rolling over from the 120,000s to 130,000,” said Anthony Aveni,
professor of astronomy and anthropology at Colgate University
and coauthor of the paper, in the statement.  Home of a Scribe  The site of the discovery is part of a city called Xultun,
in Guatemala’s largest and northernmost region, Peten. The
murals include a sitting king garlanded with feathers. Another
painting shows a man in orange, holding a pen, who may be the
house’s occupant, a scribe. Four numbers on the wall may
represent the astronomical cycles.  The ancient  Mayan civilization  reached the pinnacle of its
power around the sixth century, covering all of Guatemala,
Belize, and parts of  Honduras ,  El Salvador  and  Mexico . Today’s
discovery dates from the so-called classic period, when many of
the temples and palaces were built. Beginning in the early ninth
century, the cities were abandoned. Researchers aren’t sure why.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 