-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for May (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 2012-05-10T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-may-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s May monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 3 May 2012 to keep
the key ECB  interest rates  unchanged. Inflation rates are likely
to stay above 2% in 2012. However, over the policy-relevant
horizon, the Governing Council expects price developments to
remain in line with price stability. Consistent with this
picture, the underlying pace of monetary expansion remains
subdued. Available indicators for the first quarter remain
consistent with a stabilisation in economic activity at a low
level. Latest survey indicators for the euro area highlight
prevailing uncertainty. Looking ahead, economic activity is
expected to recover gradually over the course of the year. At
the same time, the economic outlook continues to be subject to
downside risks.  Inflation expectations for the euro area economy continue to be
firmly anchored in line with the Governing Council’s aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the
medium term. Over the last few months the Eurosystem has
implemented both standard and non-standard monetary policy
measures. This combination of measures has helped both the
financial environment and the transmission of monetary policy.
Further developments will be closely monitored, keeping in mind
that all the non-standard monetary policy measures are temporary
in nature and that the Governing Council maintains its full
capacity to ensure medium-term  price stability  by acting in a
firm and timely manner.  With regard to the economic analysis, available indicators for
the first quarter remain consistent with a stabilisation in
economic activity at a low level. Latest signals from euro area
survey data highlight prevailing uncertainty. At the same time,
there are indications that the global recovery is proceeding.
Looking beyond the short term, the Governing Council continues
to expect the euro area economy to recover gradually in the
course of the year, supported by foreign demand, the very low
short-term interest rates in the euro area, and all the measures
taken to foster the proper functioning of the euro area economy.
However, remaining tensions in some euro area sovereign debt
markets and their impact on credit ﻿conditions, as well as the
process of balance sheet adjustment in the financial and non-
financial sectors and high unemployment, are expected to
continue to dampen the underlying growth momentum.  This economic outlook continues to be subject to downside risks,
relating in particular to an intensification of tensions in euro
area debt markets and their potential spillover to the euro area
real economy, as well as to further increases in commodity
prices.  Euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.6% in April 2012,
according to Eurostat’s flash estimate, after 2.7% in the
previous four months. Inflation is likely to stay above 2% in
2012, mainly owing to increases in energy prices, as well as to
rises in indirect taxes. On the basis of current futures prices
for commodities, annual inflation rates should fall below 2%
again in early 2013. In this context, the Governing Council will
pay particular attention to any signs of pass-through from
higher energy prices to wages, profits and general price-setting.
However, looking ahead, in an environment of modest growth in
the euro area and well-anchored long-term inflation expectations,
underlying price pressures should remain limited. Risks to the
outlook for HICP inflation rates in the coming years are still
seen to be broadly balanced. Upside risks pertain to higher than
expected commodity prices and indirect tax increases, while
downside risks relate to weaker than expected developments in
economic activity.  The monetary analysis indicates that the underlying pace of
monetary expansion has remained subdued, with somewhat higher
growth rates in the past few months. The annual growth rate of
M3 was 3.2% in March 2012, compared with 2.8% in February. Since
January a strengthening in the deposit base of banks has been
observed.  The annual growth rates of loans to non-financial corporations
and loans to households (adjusted for loan sales and
securitisation) stood at 0.5% and 1.7% respectively in March,
both slightly lower than in February. The volume of MFI loans to
non-financial corporations and households remained practically
unchanged compared with the previous month.  ﻿Money and credit data up to March confirm a broad stabilisation
of financial conditions and thereby, as intended by the
Eurosystem’s measures, the avoidance of an abrupt and disorderly
adjustment in the balance sheets of  credit institutions . In this
context, the April bank lending survey indicates that the net
tightening of credit standards by euro area banks declined
substantially in the first quarter of 2012 as compared with late
2011, for both loans to non-financial corporations and loans to
households, also on account of improvements in funding
conditions for banks. As also indicated in the bank lending
survey, the demand for credit remained subdued in the first
quarter of 2012, reflecting weak economic activity and the
ongoing process of balance sheet adjustment in non-financial
sectors. The full supportive impact of the Eurosystem’s non-
standard measures will need time to unfold and to have a
positive effect on the growth of loans when demand recovers. In
this context, it should be noted that the second three-year
longer-term refinancing operation was only settled on 1 March
2012.  Looking ahead, it is essential for banks to strengthen their
resilience further, including by retaining earnings. The
soundness of banks’ balance sheets will be a key factor in
facilitating both an appropriate provision of credit to the
economy and the normalisation of all funding channels.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  It is of utmost importance to ensure fiscal sustainability and
sustainable growth in the euro area. Most euro area countries
made good progress in terms of fiscal consolidation in 2011.
While the necessary comprehensive fiscal adjustment is weighing
on near-term economic growth, its successful implementation will
contribute to the sustainability of public finances and thereby
to the lowering of sovereign risk premia. In an environment of
enhanced confidence in fiscal balances, private sector activity
should also be fostered, supporting private investment and
medium-term growth.  ﻿At the same time, together with fiscal consolidation, growth and
growth potential in the euro area need to be enhanced by
decisive structural reforms. In this context, facilitating
entrepreneurial activities, the start-up of new firms and  job
creation  is crucial. Policies aimed at enhancing competition in
product markets and increasing the wage and employment
adjustment capacity of firms will foster innovation, promote job
creation and boost longer-term growth prospects. Reforms in
these areas are particularly important for countries which have
suffered significant losses in cost competitiveness and need to
stimulate productivity and improve trade performance.  With regard to the adjustment process within the euro area, as
evidenced by the experience of other large currency areas,
regional divergences in economic developments are a normal
feature. However, considerable imbalances have accumulated in
the last decade in several euro area countries and they are now
in the process of being corrected.  As concerns the monetary policy stance of the ECB, it has to be
focused on the euro area. The primary objective of the ECB’s
monetary policy remains to maintain price stability over the
medium term. This is the best contribution of monetary policy to
fostering growth and job creation in the euro area. Addressing
divergences among individual euro area countries is the task of
national governments. They must undertake determined policy
actions to address major imbalances and vulnerabilities in the
fiscal, financial and structural domains. The Governing Council
notes that progress is being made in many countries, but several
governments need to be more ambitious. Ensuring sound fiscal
balances, financial stability and competitiveness in all euro
area countries is in our common interest.  This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains two articles. The
first article reviews and assesses the key elements of the
fiscal compact, which is part of the new Treaty on Stability,
Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union.
The second article compares the recent financial crisis in the
 United States  and the euro area with the experience of  Japan  in
the 1990s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  