-- Technology M&A Pipeline ‘Feels Very Healthy,’ Mendoza Says
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-05-10T16:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/technology-m-a-pipeline-feels-very-healthy-mendoza-says-1-.html
The pipeline for technology mergers
and acquisitions “feels very healthy,” according to Elias Mendoza, the former head of M&A at International Business
Machines Corp.  Mendoza, now a partner at Union Square Advisors LLC in  New
York , spoke today at the Bloomberg Enterprise Technology Summit
hosted by Bloomberg Link. He was joined by Ned Hooper,  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) ’s chief strategy officer, and David Berten, founder
and partner of Global IP Law Group, a Chicago-based  law firm .  Last quarter was the slowest three-month period for
technology dealmaking in a year and two of the sector’s four
biggest deals announced this quarter are patent sales, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mendoza and Hooper stressed that
they expect smaller deals for innovative companies.  “Our bias has always been toward small deals. Our
preference is early-stage innovation,” Hooper said. “Good M&A
follows strategy, not the other way around.”  Patent sales have been among the largest deals this quarter
as  AOL Inc. (AOL)  said April 9 it agreed to sell more than 800 of its
patents and related applications to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  for $1.06
billion. Two weeks later,  Facebook Inc. (FB)  agreed to pay $550
million for about 650 of the AOL patents and applications that
Microsoft will purchase.  Strategic Options  Berten said Amazon.com Inc. may decide to enter the mobile
phone market and acquiring  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  would allow
it to gain patents and take on smartphone makers like Apple Inc.  “They’re in the same position Apple was before Apple came
out with the iPhone. They don’t have sufficient patents,” he
said.  RIM, the maker of BlackBerry smartphones, was close to
hiring a financial adviser to help it weigh strategic options,
people with knowledge of the matter said last month. A spokesman
for Amazon didn’t immediately respond to a request seeking
comment.  Apple may resolve its patent dispute with Samsung
Electronics Co. when a court-ordered settlement conference takes
place this month in  California , Berten said, potentially
reducing the number of technology companies in the market to
acquire patents.  “If those two companies resolve their differences, two
major players who would otherwise be buying up patents to fight
each other might not have the same incentive anymore to make
those purchases,” he said.  Cisco is focused on making money by selling products rather
than selling patents, Hooper said. RIM is “not something we’re
looking at,” he said.  In the technology sector’s biggest deal this year, Cisco
agreed to buy NDS Group Ltd. in a transaction valued at about $5
billion. The  San Jose , California-based company is making its
largest acquisition since 2006 to add software used in next-
generation video services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  