-- Edens of Fortress Says Newcastle is Close to ‘Large’ Deal
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-05-10T21:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/edens-of-fortress-says-newcastle-is-close-to-large-deal.html
Newcastle Investment Corp. (NCT) , the
mortgage-asset buyer run by  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , is
“very optimistic” it will participate in a big investment in
mortgage-servicing rights with other entities its  manager 
oversees, Chairman  Wesley Edens  said.  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto-lender majority-owned by U.S.
taxpayers, has lined up Fortress, where Edens is co-chairman, to
buy its Residential Capital unit in a bankruptcy court-
supervised sale, a person familiar with the matter has said.  Newcastle is working on a possible transaction that’s
“quite a large one that’s still very much pending, but we’re
very optimistic it’s going to come to pass here in the next
couple of days,” Edens  said  today on a conference call to
discuss the company’s earnings. “There’s been a lot that has
been reported” on the potential deal.  The  real-estate investment trust , which is based in New
York, has been partnering with  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings
Inc. (NSM) , the servicer and lender  taken public  by Fortress in March,
on investments in mortgage servicing rights since December. The
companies have agreed to acquire the contracts on $63 billion of
loans from a unit of bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “There’s a lot of interest in investing in the MSRs”
across Fortress, and those acquired in the large deal would be
divided among the “different capital that we manage,” Edens
said.  Ally, formerly known as GMAC, received an oral commitment
from Residential Capital bondholders to support a bankruptcy
filing for the mortgage unit that could come early next week,
according to people with direct knowledge of the talks, who
declined to be identified because they aren’t public.  Ally ended last year as the fifth-largest residential
mortgage servicer, overseeing $382.8 billion of loans, according
to  newsletter  National Mortgage News. Gordon Runte, a Fortress
spokesman, declined to comment.  Newcastle jumped 4.8 percent to a 14-month high of $7.22 in
 New York  trading. Nationstar rose 2.9 percent to $14.42.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  