-- EDF Quarterly Sales Rise on Higher Cold Snap Power Volumes
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-05-10T16:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/edf-quarterly-sales-rise-on-higher-cold-snap-power-volumes.html
Electricite de France SA ,  Europe ’s
biggest power generator, reported first-quarter sales rose 6.3
percent after the utility sold more power to French homes during
a February cold snap.  Revenue rose to 20.8 billion euros ($27 billion) from 19.6
billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based operator of
France’s 58 nuclear reactors said today in a statement. The
utility confirmed 2012 financial and nuclear output targets.  The cold wave in February led to higher sales by volume
although it reduced the profit margin by almost 100 million
euros, EDF said. First quarter revenue also benefited from a
2011 French power rate increase.  EDF is raising spending on nuclear reactors because of
stricter safety measures after the Fukushima disaster in  Japan 
and a program to keep existing plants running for as long as 60
years. France’s state auditor has estimated the utility will
have to invest 55 billion euros through 2025. EDF’s reactors in
France provide about three quarters of the country’s power
output while the utility also operates eight atomic generators
in the U.K.  The utility is facing uncertainty about a works plan at its
Fessenheim plant after the May 6 election of Socialist Francois Hollande as president. He pledged during the campaign to halt
the reactors within five years as well as lower the country’s
dependence on atomic power by around 2025.  Hydropower Rises  French hydropower production increased by 1 terawatt hour
in the first quarter compared with the previous year while
reserve levels “should be built back up” from Alpine snow and
April rainfall, EDF said. Dam output fell last year amid a dry
spell.  EDF is targeting average annual growth in earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of 4 percent to 6
percent between 2011 and 2015. The 2012 payout will be “at
least stable” compared with last year.  The utility, which is building a 1,650-megawatt European
pressurized reactor in  France , expects French nuclear-power
production to be 420 terawatt-hours to 425 terawatt-hours this
year. It also forecasts higher atomic output in the U.K. First
quarter production in the U.K. dropped by 1 terawatt hour due to
unplanned outages at the Dungeness and Sizewell plants.  The utility said the availability of its domestic reactor
fleet last year was 80.7 percent, compared with 78.2 percent in
2010. EDF declined to confirm in February a previous target of
making 85 percent of the country’s reactors available for
electricity production by 2015 because of “uncertainty” about
major works at reactors for safety and new equipment.  EDF has programmed six planned reactor outages due to 10-
year safety inspections this year and steam-generator
replacements on two reactors, according to a February earnings
presentation. EDF has said replacing steam generators halts a
reactor for 50 extra days.  There may also be “potential consequences” on planned
nuclear reactor outages due to post-Fukushima safety
inspections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  