-- Meet Drake, a Rapper You Can Take Home To Mom: Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2012-05-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/meet-drake-a-rapper-you-can-take-home-to-mom-review.html
Drake may be the first rapper you’d
take to tea with your mom.  The 25-year-old Canadian is known to his folks as Aubrey Graham -- not such a street-cred name as, say, 50 Cent.  Drake is starting a U.S. tour and will appeal to those who
want a little less machismo from hip hop and a bit more
intelligence from their pop.  His European shows give a clue on what to expect. He steers
away from routine violence, misogyny and lumpen bravado.  Add his clean-cut good looks and a comfortable upbringing
in Toronto and Drake seems like an eminently eligible young
star. The former child actor even canceled a 2010 European tour
to look after his own mother. (After the U.S. shows through June
he will headline the July  Wireless Festival  in  London ’s Hyde
Park.)  Not that he’s totally exempt from parental-advice stickers.
While more lyrically suave than other rappers known for their
expletive-infested outbursts, Drake is not profanity-free.
There’s a boast about four sexual conquests in a week.  Drake keeps it simple, with the stage basic and black, the
lighting largely a criss-cross of stylish white spotlights. He
favors black pants and vest. The only flash of color comes from
the red soles of his sneakers.  Drake doesn’t like derivative beats. He prefers the sound
of producers such as the xx’s  Jamie Smith , the electronics of
Kanye West’s “808s and Heartbreak” and artists such as Odd
Future’s Frank Ocean and Abel Tesfaye of  the Weeknd .  Sing-Song Rap  The star bounds about on stage, rapping in his sing-song
way through the best of his two albums, which have sold more
than 3 million copies in less than two years.  “Take Care,” originally a duet with Rihanna, becomes an
anthem. “HYFR” is as raucous as you would expect from a song
first done with a Lil’ Wayne guest slot.  If anything, the lyrics, revolving around the difficulties
of being young, rich and famous, comes across better live. The
whiney edge is lost in the romp of the beats while those acting
skills allow Drake to deliver the corniest self-analysis with
puppy-dog sincerity. The boy is going far.  Rating: ***.  Information:  http://www.drakeofficial.com/   ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include:  Lewis Lapham  on  history ,
Zinta Lundborg’s  New York   weekend .  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 