-- Egypt Gets $1 Billion from Saudi Arabia, Minister Says
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-05-10T15:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/egypt-gets-1-billion-from-saudi-arabia-minister-says.html
Saudi Arabia  has deposited $1 billion
in Egypt’s central bank, which may give the government more time
to secure an International Monetary Fund Loan.  Egyptian and Saudi officials are “coordinating” to
implement the rest of a Saudi aid package to the North African
country, an e-mailed statement from the prime minister’s office
said. That includes $500 million to finance high-priority
development projects, $250 million for buying petroleum products
and a $200 million grant for small and medium-sized projects and
industries, it said without providing further details.  “The Saudi lifeline confirms that the drawdown in the
official reserves has come to an end for now,” Jean-Michel Saliba, a London-based economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, said in response to e-mailed questions. It gives the
central bank “more room to manage the Egyptian pound until
finalization of an IMF loan.”  The Saudi aid may also give a boost to  Egypt ’s efforts to
obtain the $3.2 billion loan it requested from the IMF in
January. The fund says Egypt should show how it would meet
additional financing needs, as well as providing evidence that
the economic program tied to the loan has sufficiently broad
political support to ensure it will be implemented.  ‘Positive News’  Egypt’s foreign reserves have plunged about 60 percent
since the end of 2010. The decline halted in April when reserves
rose for the first time since the uprising that began in January
last year and ousted  Hosni Mubarak . The central bank said a
revival in tourism and a slowdown in capital flows out of the
country helped stem the drop.  Last month, Egyptian Finance Minister Momtaz el-Saieed said
Egypt’s foreign reserves will show an “improvement” as the
government receives aid from Saudi Arabia.  The Saudi deposit is “positive news for Egypt,
particularly as the fractured politics” have undermined support
for the IMF program, Raza Agha, London-based senior economist at
the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in response to e-
mailed questions. “This, coupled with the dollar t-bill auction
that was announced, will obviously help build reserves. Key is
whether Saudi support helps unlock additional bilateral support
from Arab donors.”  The central bank said today that Egypt will seek to raise
$750 million in dollar-denominated treasury bills on May 15.  Egypt’s economic growth slowed to 0.4 percent in the final
quarter of 2011, from 5.6 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  