-- Egyptian Election Delay Is Unacceptable, Says Brotherhood
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-05-10T15:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/egyptian-election-delay-is-unacceptable-says-brotherhood.html
Egypt ’s Muslim Brotherhood said any
delay to the country’s presidential election is unacceptable,
after a court ruling called into question whether the vote will
start on schedule in less than a fortnight’s time.  Yesterday’s ruling said only the ruling military council,
and not the country’s election commission, can call on voters to
cast ballots, the state-run Middle East News Agency reported. An
appeal against the court decision will be heard on May 12 after
state attorneys acting on behalf of the elections commission
asked that the case be reviewed.  “The Egyptian people will never accept any attempt to
postpone the vote,” Muslim Brotherhood spokesman Mahmoud
Ghozlan said in a phone interview today. “No one is willing to
be more patient, or to accept prolonging the transitional period
and the rule of the military council.”  The court decision of May 9 injected fresh uncertainty into
the presidential race, adding to the tumult surrounding the
transition to democracy in the Arab world’s most populous
country. Deadly clashes in Cairo earlier this month fueled a
sense of insecurity ahead of the vote scheduled to start in
Egypt on May 23.  The appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court argues that
yesterday’s ruling by lower-court violated a “constitutional
declaration” stipulating that the commission’s decisions cannot
be contested, the Cairo-based agency said.  No Delay  Mohamed Morsi, the  Muslim Brotherhood  candidate, whose
party is the largest in parliament, has also previously said the
group will not accept a delay of the election. Ghozlan said
today he expects the ruling to be overturned.  Preparations for the vote appeared to be proceeding despite
the court ruling. Egyptians abroad will start voting tomorrow as
scheduled, the state-run Ahram Gate reported today, citing Ahmed
Ragheb, assistant foreign minister. Local media also advertised
the country’s first televised presidential candidates’ debate
scheduled today between two frontrunners: former foreign
minister  Amre Moussa  and former Muslim Brotherhood member Abdel
Moneim Aboul-Fotouh.  Some legal experts quoted by state media said a change of
schedule for the ballot could be avoided by having the head of
the ruling military council issue the call to voters.  Hatem Ammer, the head of the court that issued yesterday’s
ruling said today that the decision does not mean halting the
presidential elections, Ahram Online reported.  May Vote  Before the ruling yesterday, the council said it remained
committed to the vote, comments echoed later by the elections
commission. The first round should be held on May 23 and 24,
while a deciding second round is scheduled for June 16 and 17,
if required. The final result is due on June 21.  The elections commission said it was continuing its work
until presidential elections are “concluded on schedule,”
without mentioning the court ruling, according to MENA. The
military council, accused by activists of mismanaging the
transitional period, has repeatedly said it was committed to
transferring power to civilians by the end of June after the
presidential vote. The council renewed its pledge yesterday,
called for sticking to the elections scheduled dates and
stressed its “full trust” in the elections commission in a
statement issued before the court’s decision, MENA reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  