-- Egypt’s April Inflation Slows as Food-Price Increases Ease
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-05-10T14:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/egypt-s-april-inflation-slows-as-food-price-increases-ease-3-.html
Egypt ’s inflation rate declined in
April as food prices, one of the causes of the unrest that
toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  last year, rose more slowly.  Annual inflation in urban areas, the gauge the central bank
monitors, fell to 8.8 percent from 9 percent in March, the
official statistics agency said on its website today. Prices
rose 1 percent in the month. Food and beverage costs, the
biggest component of the consumer-price index, increased 10.8
percent from a year earlier compared with 10.9 percent in March.  The deceleration in inflation is “predominantly based on
base effects,” Mohamed Abu Basha, a Cairo-based economist at
investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said in an e-mailed
response to questions before the figures were published.  Egypt’s economic growth slowed to 0.4 percent in the final
quarter of 2011, from 5.6 percent a year earlier, as political
instability deterred tourists and investors. Talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  for a $3.2 billion loan that Egypt
requested in January have yet to conclude amid wrangling between
the interim government and the Islamist-dominated parliament.  Egypt’s core inflation declined to an 8.36 percent annual
rate in April from 8.68 percent in March, the central bank said
on its website today.  The central bank has left the key overnight deposit rate
unchanged at 9.25 percent this year, after a 1 percentage-point
increase in November that some economists saw as an effort to
avert a run on the Egyptian pound.  The country’s foreign reserves have plunged about 60
percent since the end of 2010. The decline halted in April when
reserves rose for the first time since the uprising began in
January last year. The central bank said a revival in tourism
and a slowdown in capital flows out of the country helped stem
the decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  