-- Telefonica Czech Quarterly Net Down 6.9% as Call Spend Eases
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-05-10T12:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/telefonica-czech-quarterly-net-down-6-9-as-call-spend-eases-1-.html
Telefonica Czech Republic AS (SPTT) , the
country’s largest phone operator, posted a 6.9 percent decline
in first-quarter profit as clients spent less on calls and
mobile termination rates eased.  Net income for the three months ended March 31 was 1.62
billion koruna ($83 million) down from 1.74 billion koruna a
year ago, the Prague-based company said, according to a
statement. Revenue declined 3.3 percent to 12.47 billion koruna.  “Revenues continued to be impacted by prevailing
competitive pressure largely in corporate and small and medium
business mobile segments and lower mobile termination rates year
on year,” the company said today.  Telefonica Czech is battling a decline in earnings, which
peaked in 2005, by streamlining operations and laying off
employees. The Czech unit of  Spain ’s largest telecommunications
company plans to start deploying fiber-optic network and next-
generation mobile technology to offset a decline in traditional
voice services and competition in mobile broadband.  Revenue from fixed-line services in the  Czech Republic  fell
6.2 percent to 5.3 billion koruna in the quarter from a year
ago, the company said. Mobile revenue dropped 5 percent to 6.1
billion koruna. Sales in Slovakia continued with a “solid
growth” of 27 percent to 43.9 million euro ($56 million) in the
quarter from a year ago.  Share Repurchase  Telefonica Czech, which said today it would buy back shares
as much as 2 percent of shares outstanding, rose 7.5 koruna or 2
percent to 376 koruna as of 2 p.m. in Prague.  “The decision to commence share buyback should boost the
stock today,” J&T Banka AS analyst Milan Vanicek wrote in a
note to investors today. Otherwise, the results are “neutral”
to share price, Vanicek wrote. Vanicek recommends investors to
“hold” the stock.  The company reiterated its full year guidance, including
investment of as much as 6.2 billion koruna excluding
acquisitions.  Telefonica Czech said it will consider the terms of an
uction of unused transmission frequencies this year by the
ountry’s telecommunications regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  