-- Emerging Stocks Rebound as Brazilian Steelmakers Advance
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-05-10T22:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/emerging-stocks-fall-for-a-sixth-day-as-chinese-exports.html
Emerging-market stocks rose from a
four-month low as falling U.S. jobless claims and a bailout
payment for Greece bolstered Russian equities, overshadowing
declines in Brazil’s bourse.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  climbed 0.3 percent to
980.69 at the close in New York, advancing for the first time in
six days. Utilities and consumer companies led gains.
OAO NovaTek, Russia’s second-largest natural gas producer, rose
the most since July before it reports earnings tomorrow.
Brazil’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  retreated for a third day, paring earlier
gains of as much as 1.6 percent.  Claims for U.S. unemployment benefits dropped to the lowest
level in a month, allaying concerns of a global economic
slowdown and boosting the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 0.3
percent. Greece, which owes about 400 billion euros ($517
billion) to private bondholders and public bodies, will get 4.2
billion euros from its rescue fund today, according to the
European Financial Stability Facility.  “This is a sigh of relief in the near term,”  Benoit Anne ,
the head of  emerging markets  at Societe Generale SA, said by
phone today from London. “It’s looking like Greece’s
installment of cash is going to be disbursed and that’s very
good news for short-term sentiment.”  The developing-nations  index  is valued at 10.4 times
estimated profit and has gained 7 percent this year, compared
with the 12.1 multiple for the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) , which has added
5.3 percent this year.  Earnings in Brazil  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund,  the most-traded ETF  tracking developing-nation shares,
added 0.4 percent to $40.49 today.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, fell 3.3 percent to 28.53.  Braskem SA (BRKM5) , Latin America’s largest petrochemicals maker,
slipped 4.6 percent in  Sao Paulo  after it posted first-quarter
profit that fell 50 percent on soaring costs and a weaker local
currency that boosted the value of its dollar-denominated debt.
Brazil’s Bovespa fell 0.1 percent.  Micex Climbs  Russia’s  Micex (INDEXCF)  benchmark index added 1.8 percent, the
biggest gain since April 19, as NovaTek climbed 5.5 percent. The
company will report first-quarter earnings tomorrow and will
probably say sales grew 7.5 percent to $1.65 billion, according
to the median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  OAO Mechel, the country’s largest coking-coal producer,
gained 5.4 percent, the most since January. The company said
profit climbed 11 percent last year on increased prices and
higher sales.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index (JALSH)  rose 1.3 percent in
 South Africa  and the  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  jumped 1.3 percent
in Turkey. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, fell 0.4
percent.  Chinese  exports  grew 4.9 percent in April from a year
earlier, trailing a forecast for an 8.5 percent rise by analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey.  “China’s export and import figures, which came out this
morning, were substantially worse than expected,” indicating
that “the economy is slowing,” Slava Smolyaninov and Leonid Slipchenko, analysts at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, wrote
in a note to clients. “European debt problems are also on
investors’ radar with ongoing problems in Greece and now
Spain.”  Chinese stocks listed on the  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  dropped 0.6 percent for a sixth day of losses.  PetroChina
Co. (857)  slid to the lowest level in more than four months after the
government cut fuel prices.  The company, Hong Kong’s second-biggest oil refiner, slid
for a seventh day, losing 2 percent.  Gross Cuts Holdings  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, cut his
holdings of emerging-market debt to a two-year low, selling
assets from an area where the  International Monetary Fund  says
growth will slow. He reduced the securities to 7 percent of
assets in Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Total Return Fund
in April from 10 percent in March.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 355, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  