-- France Entrepreneurs Flee From Hollande Wealth Rejection
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-05-10T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/entrepreneurs-in-france-flee-from-hollande-s-rejection-of-wealth.html
Jeremie Le Febvre, the 30-year-old
founder of private equity marketing-services firm TBG Capital
Advisors, plans to move to  Singapore  from Paris this year.  Not because of President-elect Francois Hollande’s pledge
to boost taxes; rather for what Hollande’s victory says about
how wealth is viewed in  France , the entrepreneur said.  “What’s really driving my departure is the fact that I
don’t share the values that emerged during the election, the
rejection of ambition and success,” he said in an interview.
“It’s part of France’s difficult relationship with money, but
it has reached a new level. Even if it’s utopian, I need to
believe for me and my descendants that the sky is the limit.”  France, the fifth-richest country and home to some of
the world’s wealthiest people, including LVMH Moet Hennessy 
Louis Vuitton SA Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault , 
doesn’t celebrate its affluent. Hollande, a Socialist who 
once said “I don’t like the rich,” and who plans to slap a 
75 percent tax on income of more than 1 million euros ($1.29
million), reinforces the sentiment that in France to be rich 
is not glorious.  “Hollande is using the 75 percent tax as a symbol to
convey certain values through stigmatization,” Le Febvre said.  Hollande’s rhetoric against wealth and finance is prompting
some in France to consider leaving, and European rivals are
welcoming them. “Bienvenue a Londres,” or welcome to London,
Mayor  Boris Johnson  quipped in January. Switzerland and  Belgium 
have been just as warm.  Looking to Move  Julien Berckmans, a real estate agent at Brussels-based
Best Home Consult, took five calls from French citizens seeking
to buy property in the Belgian capital after Hollande defeated
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  on May 6.  “They had come and visited houses in the previous weeks,
telling us their decision depended on the outcome of the
presidential election,” Berckmans said. “They called on the
morning after to say they were serious about moving.”  Berckmans said there’s been a steady flow of house hunters
in areas such as Ixelles and Uccle -- near the French school.  Abdallah Chatila, a Geneva-based realtor who specializes in
properties worth more than 3 million euros, said he received
several enquiries from lawyers on behalf of French clients.  “It’s difficult to determine, but we’ll know in the next
three months how many are willing to confirm,” he said.  Hollande’s millionaire tax announcement during this year’s
election campaign triggered a 30 percent spike in searches from
France for prime properties in wealthy  London  neighborhoods such
as South Kensington and Chelsea, according to real estate agent
Knight Frank LLP.  ‘Anti-Money Rhetoric’  “Seen from abroad, France is the last country where an
entrepreneur wants to go,” Marc Simoncini, the founder of
French dating site Meetic.com, said in an interview on BFM TV
yesterday. “I don’t know of any British person who’s come to
set up a business in France. But I know plenty of young French
people who’ve gone to London to do that.”  The attacks on the moneyed class intensified during the
presidential race, leaving entrepreneurs and other wealth
creators feeling like pariahs, said Michel Collet, a tax lawyer
at Paris-based law firm CMS Bureau Francis Lefebvre.  “The rich are fed up with being stigmatized,” he said.
“Beyond the expectation of higher taxes, another important
reason why our clients say they want to move abroad is that the
negative perception of wealth has mounted in the past weeks.”  The attitude toward business and wealth creators is driving
people away, said Diane Segalen, founder of Segalen & Associes,
an executive search firm specializing in top management and
board members.  Brain Drain  “It’s not only for people who don’t want to be taxed 75
percent, but people who want to be in a country where they think
they can do business,” she said. “They want to be in a country
where there’s stability in taxes and  labor laws , and where they
aren’t at risk when they try to set up a business.”  Talent and skills will go where they are welcome, she said.  Private equity executive Bertrand Meunier moved to London
this month to join Luxembourg-based buyout firm CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. Christophe Florin, former chief operating officer
of Paris-based Axa Private Equity, is joining  Abu Dhabi ’s
Investment Authority. Meunier didn’t respond to calls for
comment, while Florin declined to comment.  The  trickle out  began even before the election campaign.
The number of French people fleeing high taxes rose to more than
1,000 a year between 2009 and 2011, according to estimates by
Segalen. It was 384 in 2001, government figures show.  Sarkozy Tax Cap  Collet said he noticed increasing expatriation-related
queries about a year ago, when Sarkozy started increasing taxes
and ended a concession that capped all taxes at 50 percent of
income. The so-called tax shield had been one of Sarkozy’s first
measures after being elected president in 2007.  About 1.6 million French citizens were registered in French
consulates abroad as of Dec. 31, a 6 percent increase from 2010,
beating both the 2.3 percent rise the previous year and the 3
percent average annual increase in the French population living
overseas, according to the  Ministry of International Affairs .  The U.K. had an 8.5 percent jump, while  Switzerland  and
Belgium recorded 7.3 percent and 8.1 percent gains respectively. 
The surge is partly explained by the 2012 vote, which generally
boosts registrations, the ministry said.  Still, although most of the people aren’t tax exiles, for
those fleeing stifling fiscal rules, the decision to move is
disruptive and not taken lightly, Collet said. The destination
depends on what phase of their lives they are in, he said.  ‘Indecent Wealth’  “If they’re relatively young and have some assets, they’re
usually tempted to move to the U.K. or the U.S. to develop their
business,” Collet said. “Typically, they tend to retire in
Switzerland because there is no estate tax, and to move to
Belgium when they’re looking to sell assets with no taxes on
their gains.”  Hollande’s 75 percent levy on high earners would come on top
of his proposal to create a tax rate of 45 percent for people
making 150,000 euros or more.  He has also said he would increase the  wealth tax  and stop
tax incentives put in place by Sarkozy to lure London bankers
back home.  “What I don’t accept is indecent wealth, compensation that
has no relation to talent, intelligence or effort,” Hollande
said on Feb. 27 on French television channel TF1.  While Hollande is raising taxes, France’s neighbor, the
U.K., is cutting the 50 percent tax rate for annual income above
150,000 pounds ($242,500) to 45 percent from April. Its top
capital-gains rate is 28 percent and there’s no wealth tax.  Welcome in London  Hollande’s millionaire levy would hit between 10,000 and
20,000 households, according to estimates by the tax-collectors’
union,  SNUI . It needs to be approved by France’s constitutional
council, which may find it confiscatory, according to Collet.  Meetic founder Simoncini, who, with 16 other high earners,
signed a letter vowing to pay more taxes, was among the few
people in France to openly criticize Hollande’s plan.  “I don’t approve of this measure,” Simoncini wrote in a
column published by weekly magazine  Nouvel Observateur  on March
5. “It would affect only a few dozen chief executive officers
with unusual compensation while sending a calamitous signal to
the world. How could we possibly attract people to set up
businesses, create, invest and succeed in a country that would
be in effect the most taxed in the world?”  Simoncini wrote that his wealth tax would amount to 100
times his current salary because most of his fortune is invested
in small businesses that don’t yet generate income for him.  On the other side of the Channel, Conservative London Mayor
Johnson laid out the welcome carpet.  “This is the global capital of finance,” he said. “It’s
on your doorstep and if your own president does not want the
jobs, the opportunities and the economic growth that you
generate, we do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ; 