-- Essar Refinery in India Makes Preliminary Booking of Iran Crude
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-05-10T08:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/essar-refinery-in-india-makes-preliminary-booking-of-iran-crude.html
Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL) , the operator of
 India ’s second-largest non-state refinery, provisionally hired a
crude tanker to load from the Iranian port of Kharg Island,
shipping data show.  The Mumbai-based company chartered the United Star to carry
130,000 metric tons on May 22 for delivery to Vadinar, according
to reports from three shipbrokers including Galbraith’s Ltd. in
 London . The Liberia-flagged vessel, classed as a Suezmax tanker,
is under way in the Persian Gulf. Provisional fixtures are
subject to changes or cancellation.  Rabin Ghosh, a Mumbai-based spokesman for Essar, declined
to comment. The company, which has a contract to import about
100,000 barrels a day of Iranian crude, will buy 85 percent to
90 percent of agreed volumes, two people with knowledge of the
plan said on May 2.  India is reducing its imports of Iranian oil after U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  sought to enlist New Delhi’s
help with sanctions against the  Persian Gulf  nation over its
nuclear program. India will cut purchases by 20 percent to 14
million tons in the 12 months through March, two diplomats and
two refinery officials said this week, asking not to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Iran, which says its nuclear program is peaceful, also
faces a European Union embargo on the transportation, purchase,
financing and insurance of its oil starting July 1.  Essar last month loaded a similar quantity of crude from
Kharg Island on the United Resolve, shipping data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net ;
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  