-- EU Cuts Fees for Mobile-Phone Roaming Services
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-05-10T14:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/eu-cuts-fees-for-mobile-phone-roaming-services.html
The European Union will cut roaming
fees for mobile Internet services and reduce charges for making
mobile-phone calls from outside a user’s home country starting
in July.  The legislation sets a price limit for data roaming for the
first time and extends a cap on call charges first imposed in
2007. The European Parliament voted 578-10 in favor of the new
rules, the final step for a proposal  agreed  upon by lawmakers
and EU governments in March.  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and other telecommunication companies
have complained that they may lose revenue as a result of price
limits and other regulation. The caps will pressure operators
because data roaming provides about 5 percent to 10 percent of
wireless data revenue, according to research from Bloomberg
Industries.  High roaming charges are “a constraint on businesses and a
constraint on  economic growth ” because they discourage people
from mobile Internet use when they are abroad, Neelie Kroes, the
EU’s Internet commissioner, told lawmakers yesterday.  Under the new rules, which apply to mobile-phone contracts
agreed to in the EU, customers will choose which operator they
want to use outside their home country starting in July 2014.
People traveling outside the EU will also be warned when their
mobile Internet use exceeds 50 euros ($65) and must give their
consent to continue using data.  Internet Charges  “This welcome news is the latest step down from sky-high
roaming costs,” Monique Goyens, director general of the
European Consumers’ Organisation, said in a statement. “What is
significant here is the first-ever cap on data roaming.”  Charges for using the Internet while traveling within the
EU must not exceed 70 cents per megabyte starting July 1, and
20 cents from July 2014. Call limits will be reduced to 29 cents
per minute starting in July and 19 cents from July 2014. Text
messages must cost no more than 9 cents from July 1 and 6 cents
from July 2014.  For families and people who travel on business in  Europe 
outside their home countries, the limits will mean an average
annual savings of more than 200 euros and 1,000 euros
respectively, according to the European Commission.  ‘Continuous Intervention’  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao 
has said regulators “should stop having this continuous
intervention on prices” to allow companies to invest in new
technology. Vodafone “has led the industry in offering roaming
services that are innovative and affordable, whatever the
regulatory environment,” Simon Gordon, a spokesman for the U.K.
company, said today.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Europe’s second-biggest phone company,
loses more than it receives in roaming charges because its
clients use their phones more abroad than its network is used by
foreign roamers.  “It’s a good thing that roaming prices are declining,”
CEO Rene Obermann said on a conference call today. “As part of
the FreeMove alliance, we have fought for a lowering of voice
and data tariffs in Europe.”  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  said today that the “regulatory
burden” such as lower roaming charges and reductions in
national and international mobile termination rates will
continue to impact the company this year. Roaming revenue fell
about 11 percent in the first quarter after “higher volumes
could not compensate” for regulatory cuts in tariffs.  France Telecom  will lose about 1 billion euros of revenue
in 2012 as a result of a “very heavy burden coming from
regulation and tax policies” including the roaming rules, CEO
Stephane Richard said in February.  The regulation has cut into annual revenue from
international roaming fees, which amounted to 8.5 billion euros
for European phone companies in 2006, according to the EU.
Vodafone,  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2 and other mobile-phone companies
lost a challenge in 2010 at the EU’s highest court that sought
to overturn the legislation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  