-- EU’s Hedegaard Says CO2 Auctions Review Is Short-Term Fix
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-05-10T14:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/eu-s-hedegaard-says-co2-auctions-review-is-short-term-fix.html
The European Union’s planned measure
to delay some carbon auctions is a short-term tool to tackle
oversupply and will be followed by talks on further steps to
bolster the bloc’s climate policies, the EU climate chief said.  The European Commission is planning to present to  member
states  “in the not-too-distant future” a review of the EU
carbon-permit auctioning regulation to postpone some sales of
allowances from 2013, Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard
said. That could help boost prices in the European emissions
market after they sank to a record last month.  “That’s basically backloading; it’s a question of how many
allowances will come to the market and when,” Hedegaard said
today in a Brussels interview. “Then there’s another
discussion, when many CEOs from huge European corporations start
saying that we also need to take away more permanently some of
the allowances from the market. That discussion will come
later.”  European governments and the commission, the EU regulatory
arm, have come under pressure from companies including  Germany ’s
largest utility, EON AG, and the region’s biggest oil company,
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , to improve the bloc’s carbon market after
a recession cut industrial output and pollution prices slumped
to a record this year on oversupply.  Environment lobbies and some members of the  European
Parliament  have also urged the EU to fix its carbon cap-and-
trade program by creating a set-aside of allowances that would
be subsequently canceled at the end of the next trading period
in 2020.  Permanent Cancellations  “That’s the reflection we have to go through when we talk
about more long-term measures,” Hedegaard said. “That was also
what the discussions at the informal environment council in
April centered around.”  Any permanent cancellation of permits would require
revision of the EU directive on carbon trading. Under the
European law, the bloc’s headline goal is to reduce  greenhouse
gases  by 20 percent in 2020 compared with 1990 levels. The 2020
cap for utilities and manufacturers in the emissions trading
system, the key tool of EU climate policy, will be 21 percent
below 2005 discharges.  The number of allowances in the system will also become the
subject of talks when the EU discusses longer-term greenhouse-
gas targets, according to Hedegaard. The commission said in a
strategy paper published in 2011 that the most cost-efficient
scenario for  Europe  would be to cut emissions by 40 percent in
2030 and 60 percent in 2040 compared with 1990 levels.  Signal to Investors  “If you said now we’ve the target for 2030 then you’d have
a discussion about how many allowances there should be in the
next decade,” Hedegaard said. “That’s of course a very clear
way of sending signals to investors.”  The emission caps that the EU emissions trading system
imposes on more than 12,000 facilities were set before the debt
crisis and economic slump. The program, also known as the EU
ETS, will be oversupplied by permits covering around 1.1 billion
tons of CO2 by 2012, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
This surplus may be transferred into Phase 3.  The EU is moving toward auctioning allowances in the third
phase of the ETS after giving most of them to companies for free
in the first two trading periods since 2005. Under the current
rules, relatively more allowances will be sold to the market in
the early part of the next phase and relatively fewer in the
later years, according to Hedegaard.  ‘Over-Flooded Market’  “That is not the wisest thing to do, I believe, when you
already have an over-flooded market,” she said, adding she
would aim for a decision by member states on the planned
proposal to revise the auctioning rules by the end of this year.  EU permits for December have lost 61 percent in the past
year on concern that the cap-and-trade program will be
oversupplied for most of the next trading period from 2013 to
2020. The contract was unchanged at 6.79 euros ($8.81) a metric
ton as of 2:51 p.m. on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  While the ETS “has been doing its job” of delivering
emission-reductions, the bankability of allowances and resulting
oversupply may lead to a situation where the price will fail to
recover even after the economic slowdown ends, Hedegaard said.  “That’s why it makes sense to address the low price,” she
said. “If it was only a temporary thing, as long as the crisis
is there, then there wouldn’t be a need to look at this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  