-- Europe’s Luxury Rally Founders as China, Greece Hurt LVMH
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-05-11T16:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/europe-s-luxury-rally-founders-as-china-greece-fears-hurt-lvmh.html
The biggest rally in three years for
 luxury-goods  makers in Europe is fizzling on concern slower
economic growth in  China  and renewed euro-area political turmoil
after Greece’s inconclusive election will choke off demand.  The nine-company  Bloomberg European Luxury Goods Index (BNLXGDEU) ,
whose clothiers and watchmakers get 34 percent of sales from
 Asia , tumbled 5.5 percent over the past five days, the largest
decline since Nov. 24, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index retreated 2.5 percent. The luxury gauge
surged 25 percent in the first quarter as designers  Hugo Boss AG (BOS) 
and Salvatore Ferragamo SpA gained more than 50 percent.  China’s cooling growth, the political impasse since
Greece’s May 6 election and proposed tax increases from France’s
new president are hurting the industry.  Francois Hollande , who
defeated  Nicolas Sarkozy  to become the first Socialist in 17
years to control Europe’s second-biggest economy, has proposed a
75 percent levy on incomes above 1 million euros ($1.3 million).
 Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s largest watchmaker, gets 38 percent
of revenue from China, home to more than a million millionaires,
and  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  generates 33 percent of sales in Asia.  “With the growth momentum in China slowing, what has been
pushing the luxury-goods sector higher and higher is bound to
weaken as well, and luxury companies will see an end of their
massive rally,” said John Plassard, a director at Louis Capital
Markets SA in Geneva. “2012 will prove itself a transition
year.”  Slowing Growth  The Bloomberg luxury index retreated 3 percent from April
13, when a report showed Chinese  gross domestic product  trailed
forecasts last quarter, through yesterday. That’s three times
more than the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP) , which slipped 0.9 percent. Swatch,
Burberry, the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods maker, and  Hugo Boss 
were the gauge’s worst performers in that period. The index rose
0.6 percent today.  The measure tumbled 62 percent from the end of the second
quarter of 2007, when Chinese growth was an annualized 14.5
percent, through the first quarter of 2009, when economic
expansion bottomed at 6.6 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The Stoxx 600 dropped 57 percent over that period.  The number of dollar millionaire households in China
climbed 31 percent in 2010 to 1.11 million, ranking the country
third behind the U.S. and Japan, according to a Boston
Consulting Group survey released last year.  Growing Valuations  The rally in luxury stocks has pushed  Burberry’s valuation 
to 19.9 times estimates earnings, compared with a low of 5.5 in
November 2008, according to Bloomberg data. Swatch shares have
risen to 15.1 times forecast profits from a low of 6.5 and  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  has increased to 16.9 times from
8.7. The Stoxx 600 as a whole is trading at 10.5 times projected
income, the data show.  “I’ve become more cautious on luxury goods as the
valuations don’t look as attractive,” said Peter Braendle, who
helps manage $60 billion at Swisscanto Asset Management AG in
Zurich. “I’ve reduced positions in recent months to a light
buy, down from a strong buy.” Braendle said he would reduce his
weighting to neutral if growth in Asia, especially China, slowed
further.  China’s economy  expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter,
the slowest pace in almost three years. Foreign direct
investment sank for a fifth month in March, while  house prices 
fell in a record 37 of China’s 70 cities tracked by the national
government.  Diminished Appetite  “Psychologically, if you see the value of your home
falling, you’re unlikely to be a strong luxury consumer,” said
Lorne Baring, managing director at B Capital SA in Geneva, which
oversees almost $500 million. “The worry is that slowing GDP
growth in China combined with falling house prices diminish the
appetite for luxury goods.”  LVMH, the world’s biggest producer of luxury goods, sank
the most in four months on April 18 as Finance Director Jean- Jacques Guiony said Asian tourists are shifting some purchases
to  Europe , where prices are as much as 47 percent cheaper. The
company made 27 percent of revenue in Asia last year.  In response, LVMH is raising prices in Europe even if it
puts items such as 2,270-euro Lockit handbags further out of
reach for Europeans whose disposable incomes are shrinking.
Tourists, mainly from Asia, account for between 35 percent and
60 percent of luxury sales in Europe, according to HSBC Holdings
Plc analyst  Antoine Belge .  ‘Signs of Struggles’  “This effect is likely to be replicated by other luxury
groups in Europe and could lead to lower volumes,” Plassard
said. “Raising prices in times of a crisis is extremely risky
and may show the first signs of struggles for the sector.”  Burberry fell the most in six months on April 17 after
reporting quarterly sales that trailed analysts’ estimates.
Swatch Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek said on March 1 that
demand in the “very, very high” segment of the Chinese market
was slowing. Asia accounted for more than half of Switzerland’s
2011 watch exports.  For  Manish Singh , the head of investment at Crossbridge
Capital in  London , the rally in luxury stocks may continue as
China’s central bank acts to stoke the economy. Chinese
manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in a year last month.
The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 53.3 from 53.1 in March,
China’s statistics bureau and logistics federation said on May
1. That was the fifth straight reading above the 50 level
dividing expansion from contraction.  Soft Landing  “China is in for a soft and managed landing, and I’m not
worried about slowing growth,” said Singh of Crossbridge
Capital, which has more than $2 billion under management. “The
PBOC will continue to support the economy with reserve ratio
requirement cuts and other liquidity measures. There’s potential
for luxury goods to rebound and perhaps even reach new records
once it’s evident the slowdown isn’t as bad as many are making
it out to be.”  Credit Suisse Group AG cut the luxury goods industry to
benchmark from overweight on April 16, with London-based
strategist  Andrew Garthwaite  saying earnings show signs of
peaking. The downgrade means the Zurich-based bank is advising
investors to no longer hold more of the shares than are
represented in benchmark indexes.  Political parties in  Greece  have been locked in talks to
form a government since an inconclusive election on May 6,
raising the possibility that another ballot will have to be held
as early as next month. In France, Hollande has proposed a 75
percent levy on incomes above 1 million euros a year and raising
the income tax to 45 percent for those earnings more than
150,000 euros.  “Discussions on tax increases in France don’t bode well
for luxury goods,” said Trung-Tin Nguyen, a hedge-fund manager
at TTN AG. “It’s now not only about a debt crisis and austerity
measures, but there’s a political risk as well. Investors may
opt to take profits after the strong sector performance over the
last quarters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  