-- Euro Falls for 2nd Week on Concern Greece May Exit Union
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-11T21:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/euro-set-for-second-weekly-decline-before-european-debt-sales.html
The euro weakened for a second week,
touching a three-month low versus the dollar, as concern builds
that  Greece  may be forced to withdraw from the currency union
with the nation’s politicians unable to form a government.  The 17-nation currency dropped after Greek Pasok party
leader  Evangelos Venizelos  failed to form a unity government and
will hand back the three-day mandate to President Karolos
Papoulias tomorrow. The dollar and yen rose against most of
their 16 major peers after JPMorgan Chase & Co. said it made a
surprise $2 billion trading loss, boosting demand for safer
assets. Higher-yielding currencies, such as Australia’s dollar,
dropped after  China ’s industrial production and retail sales
rose less than forecast.  “The market is going to be looking to get its cues from
how the sovereign-debt crisis evolves,” said Carl Forcheski, a
director on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe
Generale SA in  New York . “If there’s a formation of a coalition
government, what their rhetoric is, the possibility of an
election -- as long as the market continues to ponder those
things, the euro will remain on the soft side.”  The euro fell 0.2 percent to $1.2917 at 5 p.m. New York
time after touching $1.2905, the weakest level since Jan. 23. It
dropped 1.3 percent this week. The shared currency declined 0.1
percent to 103.26 yen after dropping as much as 0.4 percent. The
dollar was unchanged at 79.93 yen.  The yen pared earlier gains against some of its major
counterparts after a gauge of U.S. consumer confidence topped
economists’ estimates, renewing appetite for some higher-
yielding assets.  Consumer Sentiment  Norway’s krone rose 0.2 percent against the yen after
earlier dropping by as much as 0.6 percent.  Brazil ’s real fell
0.7 percent against the dollar after earlier appreciating by as
much.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of  consumer sentiment  for May rose to 77.8 from 76.4 the
prior month. It was projected to drop to 76, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  Greece’s political impasse following an inconclusive May 6
election has raised the possibility that another ballot will
have to be held as early as next month, threatening the
implementation of austerity pledges. The standoff has reignited
European concerns over Greece’s ability to hold to the terms of
its two bailouts negotiated since May 2010 and stoked
speculation it will have to leave the currency union.  Euro Membership  Talks will continue under the guidance of Papoulias,
Venizelos said, and Greeks made it clear in elections that they
want a coalition government that will secure the country’s place
in the euro.  “There’s still a huge amount of uncertainty in the euro
region, and Greece remains closer to an exit than it has ever
been,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International in  London .  Gross domestic product in the euro area will drop 0.3
percent this year, the European Commission said, reiterating a
February forecast. Greece will have the deepest contraction,
with GDP shrinking 4.7 percent, while the economies of Spain and
 Italy  are seen falling 1.8 percent and 1.4 percent,
respectively.  The euro rose against the pound as Italy sold 10 billion
euros of Treasury bills, meeting its target for the auction as
rates fell from the previous sale. The Rome-based Treasury sold
7 billion euros of 364-day bills at 2.34 percent, down from 2.84
percent at the last sale of similar-maturity debt on April 11.
The euro strengthened 0.3 percent to 80.39 pence, its first gain
in six days.  Pound Declines  The pound fell against the dollar, extending a second
weekly decline, after an industry report showed U.K.  consumer
confidence  dropped last month as the economy slipped into a
double-dip recession.  Sterling weakened versus most of its major peers as signs
economic outlook is worsening raised the prospect that Governor
 Mervyn King  will hint at resuming bond purchases, or
quantitative easing, when the central bank releases its
Inflation Report next week.  The pound dropped 0.5 percent to $1.6069, losing 0.5
percent this week.  Australia’s dollar, known as the Aussie, slid against most
of its major counterparts on concern a slowdown in  China’s
economy  will reduce demand for commodity exports.  Aussie, Loonie  China’s industrial production rose 9.3 percent in April
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said
today, compared with the 12.2 percent gain projected by
economists. Retail sales increased 14.1 percent last month,
while economists had forecast a 15.1 percent increase. China is
 Australia ’s biggest trading partner.  The Aussie dropped 0.6 percent to $1.0020.  Canada ’s dollar advanced against its U.S. counterpart after
a report showed employment rose by 58,000 in April following a
March jump of 82,300 that was the biggest since September 2008.
The  labor force  grew by 72,500, lifting the jobless rate to 7.3
percent from 7.2 percent. The two-month gain in employment was
the biggest in more than 30 years.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, advanced 0.2
percent to C$1.0005 per  U.S. dollar .  Canada’s dollar has gained 3.9 percent in the past six
months, making it the best performer among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The euro declined 4.1 percent, the biggest drop.  “This is a case of caution, particularly amongst the
existing euro shorts, into a weekend where we still have no
resolution where the next Greek government is concerned,”  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG in New York, said of bets for the currency to
decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  