-- Europe’s Leaders Can Save Union for 320 Euros per German
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-10T23:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/europe-s-leaders-can-save-union-for-320-euros-per-german.html
Europe ’s chaotic political landscape
is doing an excellent job of exposing a fundamental flaw in the
euro area: the lack of a mechanism to revive growth in hard-hit
economies.  Recent elections in  Greece ,  France  and  Italy , where anti-
austerity candidates made major gains, have demonstrated the
failure of policies that seek to solve the euro area’s debt
problems through spending cuts and tax increases alone. Economic
strife has brought Greece to the brink of a political breakdown
and exit from the euro -- a move that could trigger contagion
throughout the currency area and have dire repercussions for the
entire European project.  Economists have long warned that the euro area would be
prone to such disasters. The member states’ economies are too
out of sync to be considered an “optimum currency area.”
Prices, wages and the flow of people across borders are not
dynamic enough, a shortcoming that can be fatal unless the
currency union has a powerful shock absorber. In the currency
area known as the U.S., for example, federal transfers such as
income-tax credits help struggling states catch up, cushioning
 as much as 40 percent  of the blow of economic downturns.  Restore Growth  The obvious remedy for Europe’s deepening problems, then,
is to restore the growth needed to bolster  tax revenue  and
reduce budget deficits, thus making debts more sustainable. The
victory of Francois Hollande in France’s May 6 presidential
election suggests that many Europeans, in their own way,
recognize this. Sadly, talk of a new “growth pact” among
European officials has so far lacked the necessary substance.  Some of Europe’s leaders, particularly in Germany, think
the pact should be mainly a recommitment to stalled structural
reforms. They have a point: The region’s lagging economies need
to make it easier to fire workers, so businesses can restructure
more quickly and prices and wages can fall to competitive
levels. In France, for example, businesses are often afraid to
hire because it can take years to get rid of unwanted employees.  Such reforms, though, will only inflict more pain in the
near term unless they are combined with stimulus measures.
Officials have signaled a willingness to ease the harsh deficit
targets set out in Europe’s recently forged fiscal pact, and to
boost public-works spending through the  European Investment
Bank . These temporary measures will have only a limited effect,
and won’t help fix the euro area’s flaws.  It would be folly to expect Europe to build a full system
of federal transfers, like that in the U.S., in time to save the
common currency. But a new proposal by two economists -- Jacques Delpla of France’s Conseil d’Analyse Economique and Pierre- Olivier Gourinchas of the  University of California , Berkeley --
suggests a way forward: Euro-area countries could create a
common unemployment-insurance fund, which would give struggling
members an economic boost as they liberalized their labor
markets.  The system would funnel money precisely to the people and
countries that need it most, and precisely when they need it.  Countries that chose to join would make an annual
contribution equivalent to roughly 1 percent of their gross
domestic product, while countries experiencing high unemployment
could tap the fund for much more than that amount. Delpla
estimates that net payments to  Spain , where the  unemployment
rate  is approaching 25 percent, could be as much as 2 percent to
3 percent of GDP. That might be enough to lift the economy out
of recession.  New Labor Contract  Crucially, the system wouldn’t be another form of budget
support, or a return to the European welfare state. Rather, it
would circumvent dysfunctional national bureaucracies by
offering a new, voluntary European labor contract directly to
workers. Employers throughout the euro area could simply
download the contract, which would represent -- and require -- a
radical change in most countries’ employment laws.  If workers signed up, they would immediately be easier to
fire, and, if fired, would have to enter a retraining program or
demonstrate persistent efforts to find a new job. In return,
they would be guaranteed severance pay commensurate to seniority
and receive European  unemployment benefits  on top of what their
national governments provide. An unemployed Greek store clerk,
for example, might get 1,000 euros a month from the insurance
fund in addition to Greek unemployment benefits, which are less
than half that.  To provide an immediate boost, countries could allow the
unemployed to sign up right away. The payments from a unified
fund could sharply change attitudes toward the European Union
among the hardest-hit Greeks, Portuguese and Spaniards,
providing the political glue needed to hold the European project
together.  There is, of course, a catch: Germany and other relatively
well-off countries will balk at the idea of direct transfers to
stricken nations. So far, their support has come almost
exclusively in the form of loans. Monitoring job searches and
training programs in recipient countries could also be a
challenge. But the fund pays nothing unless workers sign up for
labor reforms, and the cost is reasonable -- about 26 billion
euros a year for  Germany , or about 320 euros per German. Beyond
that, the system works both ways: At some point, Germany and
other northern European countries could find themselves on the
receiving end. In the long run, rich countries should contribute
no more, as a share of GDP, than do poor countries.  Eventually, Europe will have to forge some kind of fiscal
union if it wants the common currency to survive. Given the
imminent risk and potentially devastating cost of a euro
breakup, the region’s leaders would be wise to take a step in
the right direction now.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  future of Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac ; Stephen L. Carter on the  overuse of the word
“emergency” ;  Jonathan Weil  on  Chinese banks ; Virginia Postrel
on  Amazon’s move into high fashion ;  Jonathan Alter  on  human
capital and venture capital ; Tom Valasek on  Ukrainian politics
and soccer ; Gerald M. Rafshoon on  Mitt Romney and Jimmy Carter.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 