-- Euro Rises From Three-Month Low on Easing of Greece Debt Crisis
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-05-10T21:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/euro-rises-from-3-month-low-as-fund-eases-greek-default-concern.html
The euro rose from a three-month low
as Europe’s bailout fund confirmed that aid to  Greece  had been
received and officials reported progress forming a government,
easing concern the nation will leave the monetary union.  The shared currency ended eight days of losses against the
 U.S. dollar , matching the longest losing stretch on record,
after a European Commission official said Greece’s financial
“needs are covered.” Greece’s socialist leader  Evangelos
Venizelos  said he saw the first “good omen” in four days of
attempts to form a coalition government and avert a new
election. Higher-yielding currencies advanced as U.S. jobless
claims fell, boosting demand for risk.  “Greece partially got its aid payment paid out, so that
alleviated them from the worries on defaulting on debt payments
next week,” said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in  New York . “But the downside risks to
the euro persist. You still have the uncertainty over Greece --
you don’t know what the next government is going to look like.”  The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.2936 at 5 p.m. New York
time after falling to $1.2912 yesterday, the weakest level since
Jan. 23. The shared currency gained 0.4 percent to 103.39 yen.
It slipped to 102.76 yesterday, the lowest since Feb. 16. The
yen was down 0.4 percent to 79.92 per dollar.  The 17-nation currency’s 10-day relative strength index
fell to 24.3 yesterday and traded at 32.2 today, suggesting the
currency is headed for a reversal of recent losses. A reading
below 30 signals a currency is oversold and may be poised for a
correction.  ‘Getting Ahead’  “The market was getting ahead of its skis,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  in New York. “You had an earthquake out of Greece this
weekend, an exceptionally aggressive shorting of the currency
and, as you process all the news, you tend to retrace these
moves.”  Brazil’s real rose the most among the major currencies,
advancing 0.8 percent to 1.9535 per dollar. New Zealand’s dollar
rose 0.1 percent to 78.53 U.S. cents.  First time  claims  for jobless benefits in the U.S. fell by
1,000 to 367,000 in the period ended May 5, in line with the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and the lowest since
the end of March, the Labor Department said today in  Washington .  Greece “can continue to function with the disbursement,”
commission spokesman Olivier Bailly told reporters in Brussels
after yesterday’s European Financial Stability Facility decision
to disburse immediately only 4.2 billion euros ($5.4 billion) of
a 5.2 billion-euro loan tranche. The remaining 1 billion euros
will be “disbursed in due time to cover future needs.”  ‘Very Close’  Venizelos spoke after Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis
outlined a proposal for a unity government that will work to
keep the country in the euro and the European Union while
negotiating a gradual “disengagement” from bailout austerity
measures.  “Our views are very close,” Venizelos said to reporters
in Athens.  Greek bonds fell for an eighth day after UBS AG Chairman
and former  European Central Bank  governing council member  Axel Weber  said there was still a risk of a Greek default.  The risk of a hard default in Greece “is not off the
table,” Weber said at a conference today in London. Spain’s
problems carry an “extremely high contagion risk for Italy”
and the rest of  Europe , said Weber, who’s also a former head of
 Germany ’s Bundesbank.  If the euro had fallen today, it would have extended its
weakening streak to nine days, the longest on record since the
common currency’s inception in 1999.  ‘Risk-Negative Events’  “We are playing through one of those risk-negative events
right now,”  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group of 10 foreign-
exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York, said in a
Bloomberg Radio interview with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “The
politics in Greece in particular are highly unpredictable and
really sets the cat among the pigeons.”  The British pound rose against the dollar after the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee held its quantitative easing
 target  at 325 billion pounds ($525 billion), ending a second
round of stimulus.  The decision was forecast by 43 out of 51 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Officials also left their  benchmark
interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.  The pound gained 0.1 percent $1.6146 after weakening as
much as 0.2 percent. Sterling added 0.1 percent to 80.13 pence
per euro.  Krona, Krone  Sweden’s krona fell for a ninth day against the greenback
after  Statistics Sweden  said the inflation rate slowed to  an
annual  1.3 percent, from 1.5 percent in March.  The currency dropped 0.9 percent to 8.9824 per euro, and
weakened 0.8 percent to 6.9434 per dollar.  Norway’s krone remained lower versus most of its major
counterparts after the nation’s central bank left the benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at 1.5 percent, the lowest in two years,
as policy makers show greater determination to curb the
currency’s gains.  The krone declined 0.5 percent to 5.8683 per dollar and
fell 0.5 percent to 7.5907 per euro.  Australia ’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to $1.0082.  The  unemployment rate  in Australia unexpectedly dropped to
a one-year low of 4.9 percent in April, from 5.2 percent the
previous month, the statistics bureau said today. Economists
forecast a rise to 5.3 percent.  The euro has weakened 4.1 percent over the past six months,
the worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
rose 2.6 percent, and the yen dropped 1.3 percent.  “The recent political developments in the  euro zone  are
likely to weigh on the euro throughout the summer” even as the
currency gets short-term support after falling to key technical
levels, said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London . “There’s a lack of unity,
a lack of co-ordination.”  rrency’s  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  