-- Euro Global Poll Shows More Than 50% Predicting an Exit
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-05-10T00:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/euro-global-poll-shows-more-than-50-predicting-an-exit.html
The 17-nation euro area is on the
verge of losing one of its members, with more than 50 percent of
investors predicting an exit this year as  Greece ’s election
impasse threatens to push the debt crisis to new depths,
according to the Bloomberg Global Poll.  As Greece faces political paralysis and voters balk at
austerity, 57 percent of the 1,253 investors, analysts and
traders who are Bloomberg subscribers said at least one country
will abandon the euro by year-end and 80 percent expected more
pain for  Europe ’s bond markets. With a majority identifying a
deterioration in Europe as a large threat to the world economy,
respondents to the May 8 survey were increasingly worried Spain
will default and less willing to buy French debt as Francois Hollande takes power.  Europe’s financial turmoil is reigniting on the second
anniversary of policy makers’ first attempt to prevent Greece’s
fiscal woes from turning toxic. That raises fresh doubt over the
crisis-fighting strategy just as Greece’s inconclusive election
spurs concern that the country may not meet the terms of its
international rescues and will seek a solution outside the euro.  “Certainly from a financial perspective the crisis can
only intensify,” said Michael Derks, a poll respondent and
chief strategist at FXPro Financial Services Ltd in  London .
“We’re likely to get more debt restructurings and it would be
remarkable if Greece didn’t leave the euro within a year.”  Crisis ‘Flare-Up’  European  stocks  slid this week and Spanish  default risk 
climbed to a record as Greece struggled to form a government
after voters swung behind anti-bailout parties.  France  elected
its first Socialist premier since 1981 in the latest ballot-box
rejection of the budget cuts governments had believed were the
best cure for their debt troubles.  “Another flare-up of the crisis is likely,” said
Alessandro Mercuri, an interest-rate strategist at Lloyds
Banking Group Plc in London who responded to the poll. “The key
variable for Europe is domestic politics.”  About 386 billion euros ($501 billion) in aid commitments
for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal , the establishing of a larger
rescue fund as well as 214 billion euros in bond purchases and
more than 1 trillion euros in cheap bank loans from the  European
Central Bank  have failed to placate investors.  More Bearish  The number of poll participants who predicted a smaller
euro area within a year ballooned to 57 percent from 11 percent
in January 2011. The 80 percent saying evidence Europe is
stabilizing is temporary and that the market will be roiled
again also marks a jump from about two-thirds who held that
position at the start of this year.  The 55 percent who said backsliding by Europe posed a high
risk to the world economy was more than double the number which
said the same of a hard landing by  China ’s economy or gridlock
among U.S. politicians.  Even policy makers have begun to quiz whether Greece can
stay in the euro, reviving the once taboo debate of if the
single currency is for life and establishing a likely new round
of elections as a referendum on membership.  “If Greece decides not to stay in the  euro zone , we cannot
force Greece,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
yesterday. “They will decide whether to stay in the euro zone
or not.”  With recession beckoning, 84 percent said the euro-area
economy is worsening. The same amount said they expect social
unrest including riots, a worry that has progressively increased
from 56 percent in September.  Cuts Versus Stimulus  Mirroring the irritation of voters, only a third of those
questioned backed budget cuts as the most effective medicine for
weak economies; 53 percent advocated fiscal stimulus.  Greece, where stocks this week fell to their lowest level
in about two decades, remains the focal point of the crisis.
Ninety-four percent of poll respondents said it will default on
its debt, the most since the survey began. The country has
already restructured what it owes private bondholders.  Economists at Citigroup Inc. were among those to say this
week that the fragmented election result that left no party with
a mandate had increased the chance of Greece quitting the single
currency.  Hollande Victory  In a sign of contagion, 47 percent said  Spain  is likely to
default, the most since the survey started measuring this in 
June 2010 and almost double the tally of four months ago, as 
investors question whether Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  can 
tackle both climbing debt and the region’s highest jobless rate. 
Sixty-three percent bet Portugal will fail to pay its bills, 
although only about a quarter anticipated the same fate for 
Italy and Ireland. Just one percent said  Germany  will go 
bankrupt.  While 90 percent expected France to pay its way, Hollande’s
victory was greeted with disappointment among those polled as 71
percent said it makes them less willing to buy French bonds.
Sixty percent regarded Hollande unfavorably and 71 percent
viewed his policies with pessimism, about the same as
predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy .  Reflecting the confusion of policy makers, investors split
over the biggest threat to the euro zone. Thirty-five percent
cited the lack of political cooperation among European Union
leaders, edging out the 30 percent who pointed to anemic
economic growth and 28 percent who blamed excessive debt.  There is some room for comfort. Eighty-three percent said
the euro zone won’t collapse this year and 66 percent bet
against a financial meltdown in the region’s banking sector.
Eighty percent said Europe’s travails won’t prompt a global
economic slump in 2012.  Two-thirds were favorable of ECB President  Mario Draghi  and
sixty percent said they had a positive opinion of  International
Monetary Fund  managing Director  Christine Lagarde . Fifty-six
percent were optimistic about the policies of German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel , the most since January 2011, while the actions of
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  were praised by 49 percent.  The survey was conducted by  West Des Moines , Iowa-based
Selzer & Co. and had a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  