-- Euro Exit Can't Be Taboo in Indebted Italy, Grillo Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o ,   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-05-10T07:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/euro-exit-can-t-be-taboo-in-indebted-italy-grillo-says.html
Italians should consider exiting the
euro amid rising public debt and no signs of economic recovery,
said Beppe Grillo, a comedian-turned-politician opposed to Prime
Minister  Mario Monti ’s austerity measures.  “Let’s face the issue, it can’t be a taboo,” Grillo, 63,
said in an interview yesterday after his Internet-based
political movement emerged as the third-biggest party in local
elections this week. “As debt rises, spending isn’t under
control, businesses close down, labor cost is up, salaries are
down and we don’t even have the power of bargaining our debt.”  His  5 Star Movement , founded in October 2009, is the latest
grouping to profit from rising anger in  Europe  over tax
increases, budget cuts and joblessness amid the sovereign debt
crisis. The National Front, which seeks a euro exit, won record
support in the first-round of French voting last month, while
the second-place party in Greek polls this week wants to tear up
the nation’s European Union-led bailout agreement.  Italy ’s economy, which has trailed euro-area growth for
more than a decade, is in its fourth recession since the single
currency was introduced and will contract 1.2 percent this year,
according to the government, which is implementing 20 billion
euros ($25.9 billion) in austerity measures. Costs of servicing
a debt of 1.9 trillion euros will climb to 5.3 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 4.9 percent in 2011, government
estimates show.  ‘Ever-Tightening Noose’  The euro “is an ever-tightening noose, and there’s not
even the comfort of making sacrifices to see some kind of
recovery -- there’s no sign of economic recovery at all,”
Grillo said in a phone interview from his home in Genoa. “This
isn’t just an Italian phenomenon; think of the almost 20 percent
gained by Marine Le Pen in  France , or the success of both far-
left and far-right parties in  Greece .”  Political deadlock in Greece and  Spain ’s fiscal woes have
helped reignite the debt crisis, as the impact of the  European
Central Bank ’s injection of 1 trillion euros into the banking
system fades. The  premium  investors demand to hold Italian 10-
year bonds instead of German equivalents was 400 basis points at
9:00 a.m. Rome time, compared with 278 basis points on March 19.  Grillo’s movement surged in May 6-7 local elections as
Italians punished former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
party and his ex-coalition ally, the  Northern League . Grillo’s
mayoral candidates came in second with 19.5 percent of the vote
in Parma and third with 13.9 percent in Genoa. The grouping won
its first ever mayoral seat in Sarego, a town of 6,600 people in
the northern Veneto region, and its candidates face runoffs in
three other northern municipalities on May 21-22.  No ‘Boom’  While Italian newspapers including Repubblica spoke of the
party’s performance as a “boom,” President Giorgio Napolitano
played it down. “The only boom I remember is the economic boom
of the 1960s,” Napolitano, 86, said on May 8. “I don’t see any
others.”  During the election campaign, Grillo  said  he favored Italy
staying in the EU while restructuring public debt and existing
the euro “with the least possible damage.” In yesterday’s
interview, he said his comments on the euro were “personal”
and that his movement will debate the issue and then take an
official position.  “We should ask ourselves if we can do it and what the
damage would be,” he said about leaving the single currency and
returning to the lira. “We would be able to depreciate our dear
old lira by 40 percent to 50 percent overnight and that, while
not solving our economic problems, would make more competitive”
Italian exports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  