-- European Stocks Advance; Deutsche Telekom, Repsol Climb
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-05-10T16:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/european-stocks-advance-rebounding-from-two-day-decline.html
European stocks  rose, erasing an
earlier decline, as companies from  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  to  Repsol
YPF SA (REP)  posted better-than-estimated quarterly profit.  Deutsche Telekom AG added 3 percent and Repsol YPF jumped
8.2 percent as the companies posted earnings that exceeded
analysts’ forecasts.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  led gains by
lenders.  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  surged after reporting a smaller-than-
estimated drop in profit.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  slid after Spain’s
government said it will take over the lender.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index climbed 0.6 percent to 251.1 at
the close in  London , erasing an earlier decline of as much as
0.7 percent and snapping two days of losses. The benchmark
measure has still  slumped 7.8 percent  since its highest level
this year on March 16.  “Earnings continue being very supportive,” said  Henk Potts , an equity strategist at Barclays Wealth in London, which
oversees $239 billion. “They continue to beat estimates despite
the very difficult environment. Corporate positions still look
very bright and profitability very strong. Valuations are
undemanding.”  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  trades at 10.4 times its estimated earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The volume of shares
changing hands on the equity benchmark was 22 percent higher
than the average of the last 30 days.  The gauge fell yesterday to its lowest level in almost four
months as Greece’s politicians struggled to agree on a
government and as Spanish credit risk surged.  Greece Seeks Government  Greece’s former finance minister,  Evangelos Venizelos ,
received a three-day mandate from President Karolos Papoulias
today to attempt to form a coalition government. Alexis Tsipras,
the leader of the left-wing Syriza coalition, yesterday
abandoned his attempt to form a government, forcing Papoulias to
turn to Pasok, which came third in the elections.  The Democratic Left party, which has 19 seats in
Parliament, criticized Syriza, saying Tsipras was pushing the
country toward another election.  “Contradictory statements by Syriza members on the  Greek
economy , its insistence on canceling the bailout agreement,
which is a  credit event  and constitutes a break with the euro
area, complicates political cooperation,” the Democratic Left
said in a statement on its website.  Venizelos said his views were very close to those of
Democratic Left party leader Fotis Kouvelis, according to
statements carried live on state-run NET TV.  China’s Exports, Imports  In  China , exports and imports rose slower in April than
economists had estimated, adding pressure on the government to
ease policies to spur expansion.  Overseas shipments  climbed 4.9 percent from a year earlier,
the customs bureau said on its website today. That compared with
the 8.5 percent  median estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey of 33
economists.  Import growth  of 0.3 percent trailed  forecasts  for a
10.9 percent gain. The  trade surplus  was $18.4 billion, almost
double the average  estimate  of $9.9 billion.  In the U.K., the  Bank of England ’s nine-member Monetary
Policy Committee halted its program of  bond purchases  at 325
billion pounds ($525 billion), ending a second round of
stimulus, as predicted by 43 of 51 economists in a  Bloomberg
News survey .  In the U.S., a Labor Department report showed that  first-
time claims for jobless  benefits fell to 367,000 last week from
a revised 368,000 a week earlier.  National benchmark indexes rose in every western-European
market except Switzerland and Iceland.  France ’s CAC 40 added 0.4
percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose 0.3 percent.  Germany ’s DAX
gained 0.7 percent. Spain’s IBEX 35 Index surged 3.4 percent
while  Greece ’s ASE Index rallied 4.2 percent.  Deutsche Telekom Rallies  Deutsche Telekom climbed 3 percent to 8.80 euros.  Europe’s
second-largest telephone company  reported first-quarter earnings
before interest, taxes and depreciation that slipped 0.1 percent
to 4.48 billion euros ($5.8 billion). The  average forecast  of 21
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had called for 4.4 billion euros
of profit on that measure.  Separately, the  company  was said to discuss a merger of its
 T-Mobile USA  Inc. unit with MetroPCS Communications Inc.
Deutsche Telekom has considered a stock-swap transaction that
would give it control over the combined entity, said two of the
people, who declined to be identified.  Other options include an initial public offering or an
outright sale of T-Mobile USA, the people said, adding that
Deutsche Telekom has held talks with other companies.  Repsol Shares Surge  Repsol YPF rallied 8.2 percent to 14.21 euros, its largest
gain in two years.  Spain’s biggest oil company  beat analyst
estimates for first-quarter earnings, posting profit of 792
million euros as higher  oil prices  buoyed income from its
drilling and production operations.  National Bank of Greece, the  country’s largest lender , led
bank shares higher, surging 12 percent to 1.57 euros. The shares
had tumbled 17 percent over the previous three days.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  gained 6.8 percent to 2.84 euros. Italy’s
biggest bank said  first-quarter profit  rose 13 percent to 914
million euros as higher trading income more than offset a drop
in fees and lending.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s largest lender, increased 6
percent to 4.92 euros.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest bank,
gained 2.7 percent to 31.23 euros. A gauge of bank shares was
the best performer among the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx
600, climbing 2.6 percent.  KBC, Barratt Developments  KBC Groep soared 9.4 percent to 14.44 euros after reporting
a smaller-than-estimated drop in  first-quarter profit  because of
 capital gains  at its Belgian life insurance business and lower
loan losses everywhere except Ireland.  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , the U.K.’s largest housebuilder
by volume, jumped 5.4 percent to 126.4 pence.  “We have had our strongest spring selling season for five
years,” Chief Executive Officer Mark Clare said. “We’re ahead
on achieving our objectives of improving profitability and
reducing net debt.”  Bankia slid 1.2 percent to 2.11 euros after Spain’s Economy
Ministry said its bank bailout fund will convert its 4.5 billion
euros of preferred shares in Bankia’s parent company Banco
Financiero y de Ahorros, or BFA, into voting shares. The action
will give it a controlling stake of  45 percent in Bankia , the
ministry said, adding that the government will provide the
capital that’s “strictly necessary” to clean up the lender.  Skanska sank 5.3 percent to 103.50 kronor. The Nordic
region’s biggest construction company plunged the most since
August as weak demand for homes in Europe and cost overruns
caused a loss at its residential-development unit.  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) , the maker of Dettol kitchen
spray, fell 3.5 percent to 3,440 pence. The company’s biggest
shareholder sold a 1.2 billion-pound stake at a discount.  JC Decaux SA tumbled 7.3 percent to 19.44 euros. The French
billboard company said a slowdown across Europe and in China
would hinder second-quarter revenue growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  