-- Texans Led by San Antonio Vote on $1.8 Billion in Bonds
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/texans-led-by-san-antonio-vote-on-1-8-billion-in-bonds.html
Texas school districts and cities
such as  San Antonio  are asking voters for authority to borrow
$1.8 billion to pay for projects, including streets and parks.  San Antonio, the state’s second-biggest city by population
after Houston, will put up for election a record $596 million in
bonding authority to finance 140 proposals. If passed on May 12,
the borrowing would help fund work on items from bridges to
museums and public-safety facilities.  “San Antonio is investing in itself in a big, big way,”
said Christian Archer, who is leading the push for passage as an
adviser to Mayor Julian Castro, a 37-year-old Democrat. “We’re
growing so fast and there is a lot of deferred maintenance.”  Ballot measures will be considered in 11 cities, and areas
that finance 46 school districts, two community colleges and one
hospital, according data compiled by Strategic Partnerships, an
Austin, Texas-based research and consulting firm. A year
earlier, voters authorized $2.14 billion out of $2.62 billion on
ballots statewide.  San Antonio sold 10-year bonds at a yield of 2.33 percent
on March 26, or 0.05 percentage points below a Bloomberg Fair
Value  index  for that day. The offering refinanced existing debt.
The city is the only one among the 10 largest in the U.S. to get
top ratings on general-obligation debt from the three biggest
evaluators of municipal credit.  Previous Measure Passed  Residents in San Antonio last confronted a debt vote, for
$550 million in bonds, in 2007, Archer said. The measure passed.  According to Strategic Partnerships, the following bond
authorizations are also being sought:  -- $97.5 million for the New Caney Independent School
District, north of Houston  -- $59.4 million for Andrews County Hospital District,
north of the West Texas city of Odessa, for a new medical
building  -- $56 million for street and other improvements in
Addison, a town north of  Dallas .  Houston, with almost 2.1 million residents, is the Lone
Star State’s largest city, followed by San Antonio at 1.3
million and Dallas with 1.2 million, according to U.S. Census
Bureau data. Texas voters consider bond questions at elections
in May and November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  