-- Exxon Valdez Barred Entry Into India Shipbreaking Yard
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-05-10T06:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/exxon-valdez-barred-entry-into-india-shipbreaking-yard.html
India  barred Oriental Nicety,
formerly Exxon Valdez that caused the 1989  Alaska   oil spill ,
from the nation’s biggest ship-breaking yard after an activist
filed a petition in the  Supreme Court  saying the vessel
contained toxic material.  The Gujarat Pollution Control Board denied the ship entry
into Alang, on India’s western coast, for scrapping, as the
“matter is sub-judice,” Hardik Shah, its member secretary,
said in a telephone interview last night from the state capital
Gandhinagar.  Gopal Krishna, a New Delhi-based activist with ToxicsWatch
Alliance, told the Supreme Court last month that the ship had
asbestos and heavy metals on board. Concerns that ships with
hazardous material are entering India have mounted in recent
years as Alang competes with yards in  China ,  Pakistan  and
 Bangladesh .  Priya Blue Industries Pvt . a Gujarat, western India-based
company that bought the ship for scrapping, will file a reply in
the court next week, its founder Sanjay Mehta said. He denied
the vessel, now converted into a bulk-carrier, had any toxic
material on board. The ship is currently in international waters
off India’s west coast, Mehta said.  The Supreme Court asked the Indian government and Ministry
of Shipping to provide information on the steps taken to prevent
the ship’s berthing at any of the nation’s ports, according to a
May 3  order  posted on the court’s website. The next hearing on
the case is scheduled for August 13.  Alaska Oil Spill  In 1989, the Exxon Valdez spilt 11 million gallons of oil
into Alaska’s Prince William Sound, devastating wildlife and
local businesses. Victims of the spill sued  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and won a $5 billion punitive damage award in 1994.  The award was cut after a series of appeals by Exxon over
the next 14 years, and eventually in 2008 a divided U.S. Supreme
Court reduced the punitive damages to $507.5 million.  In the petition filed in India’s Supreme Court, Krishna
said the 301 meter-long ship was purchased by Best Oasis Ltd., a
unit of Priya Blue, for $16 million. Mehta declined to comment
on the price of the vessel, built in 1986.  Alang, which opened in 1982, has the capacity to break
ships of about 4 million metric tons a year, according to
 Gujarat Maritime Board  website. The yard gives direct employment
to about 25,000 workers, according to the Board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  