-- Facebook Plans to Introduce Apple-Like App Store
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-05-10T02:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/facebook-plans-to-introduce-apple-like-app-store.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  plans to introduce an
online store that lets users download software applications,
similar to the bazaars that feature games and tools for users of
the Apple Inc. iPhone and Google Inc.’s Android software.  The store, called App Center, is due to open in the coming
weeks,  Menlo Park , California-based  Facebook  said yesterday. It
will be customized for users, similar to how Facebook’s News
Feed displays content according to a person’s closest friends.  “We’re trying to solve that app discovery problem,”
Malorie Lucich, a spokeswoman for Facebook, said in an interview
with Bloomberg.com’s Tech Blog. “For a lot of people, it’s hard
to find this stuff.”  Facebook, which next week will hold the largest-ever
initial public offering for an  Internet company , will use the
 app store  model to generate a new stream of revenue, beyond
online advertising. The company has started taking submissions
from developers, and like  Apple (AAPL) , Facebook will take a 30 percent
cut from app-related sales.  Apple has generated more than $1.7 billion from selling
apps, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, based on
information in an Apple conference call in January.  Similar to Apple’s App Store, Facebook will not admit every
program to its App Center. In the new service’s guidelines
document, Facebook says it plans to remove apps “that don’t
meet a high quality bar.”  Between Apple, Google  “Success through the App Center is tied to the quality of
an app,” Aaron Brady, a Facebook software engineer, said in a
 statement on the company’s blog . “We use a variety of signals,
such as user ratings and engagement, to determine if an app is
listed in the App Center.”  Apple’s method for curating apps has been praised for its
ability to keep viruses out. It has also been criticized for
what some perceive as corporate censorship and for the length of
time it takes to get an app approved.  Google (GOOG) ’s Android app store, by contrast, has always been a
free-for-all. Apps aren’t vetted by the company, and that has
allowed bogus and malicious software to proliferate.  Facebook’s stance is somewhere in between. For the App
Center, which can be accessed through the social network’s
website and mobile apps, not every program will be allowed in.
Developers can still build software using Facebook’s tools, and
promote their apps themselves or through users’ Facebook News
Feeds -- even if the programs are not approved. People can also
locate Facebook apps by typing the name into the site’s search
box.  The App Center will replace the Apps and Games dashboard
where people currently can browse the available tools, Lucich
said. Over time, an app’s “quality score” will fluctuate based
on its popularity and other factors, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  