-- Facebook IPO Said to Get Weaker-Than-Forecast Demand
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-05-11T11:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/facebook-ipo-said-to-meet-weaker-than-expected-investor-demand.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public
offering has so far generated lower-than-expected demand from
institutional investors who are concerned about the company’s
growth prospects, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Some investors expressed reluctance after Facebook said on
May 9 that advertising growth hasn’t kept pace with the increase
in users, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the process is private. Facebook is also telling
analysts that sales may not meet their most optimistic
 projections , two people said.  Facebook executives have another week to market the IPO,
set to price May 17, and underwriters are stepping up efforts to
drum up interest from large shareholders, one person said. The
top end of the  price range  values the world’s most popular
social network at $96 billion, or more than Standard & Poor’s
500 Index members including Walt Disney Co. and Visa Inc.  “It’s overvalued at that price,” said Filippo Garbarino,
who oversees $50 million at Frontwave Capital Ltd. in Chiasso,
Switzerland. “Investors are becoming more selective and there
are quite a few fallen angels around, like Netflix. Those who
buy Facebook at these levels are more speculators than
investors.”  Lackluster interest from institutional investors at this
stage could compel the company to rely more on buying from
retail investors, whose demand remains robust, people said. The
company may still elicit enough demand to sell shares at or
above the high end of a projected range, people said.
Institutional investors tend to hold shares longer than retail
investors, lessening a stock’s volatility.  Making History  Facebook, led by Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg ,
plans to raise as much as $11.8 billion through the IPO, the
biggest in history for an  Internet company . Underscoring
concerns that growth may taper, 79 percent of respondents in the
Bloomberg Global Poll of 1,253 investors, analysts and traders
who are Bloomberg subscribers said  Menlo Park , California-based
Facebook doesn’t deserve the top-end valuation.  “Expectations on Facebook are way too high,” said  Mitsuo Shimizu , a market analyst at Tokyo-based Iwai Cosmo Securities
Co. “Given its fundamentals, the company doesn’t look anywhere
cheap in valuation.”  Slackening Growth  Facebook is offering 337.4 million shares at $28 to $35
each. The shares will be listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under
the symbol FB.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are leading the sale.  The company plans to sell 180 million shares, while
existing owners such as  Accel Partners , Goldman Sachs and
Digital Sky Technologies are offering 157.4 million shares.
Zuckerberg is offering 30.2 million of his 533.8 million shares,
and may control 57.3 percent of the voting power of Facebook’s
capital stock outstanding after the offering, regulatory filings
show.  Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for Facebook, didn’t respond to
a request for comment.  Facebook, co-founded by Zuckerberg in 2004 in a Harvard
University dorm room, seeks a valuation at 24 times revenue,
compared with 5 times for Google Inc., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Already the company’s growth has shown signs of slackening.
Sales climbed 88 percent to $3.71 billion last year. According
to researcher EMarketer Inc., revenue may increase 64 percent to
$6.1 billion this year. That would be the third straight year of
slowing growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  