-- Falling Volume Pushes Direct Edge to Market Data, Hochron Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-05-10T16:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/falling-volume-pushes-direct-edge-to-market-data-hochron-says.html
Direct Edge Holdings LLC, the fourth-
biggest operator of U.S. stock exchanges, is turning to market
data to drive revenue as industry volume slows, according to
Chief Technology Officer Richard Hochron.  “We’re now focused on market data and trying to create
value for our clients there,” Hochron said today at the
Bloomberg Enterprise Technology Summit hosted by  Bloomberg Link .
“We’re becoming less and less dependent on the transaction
volumes for our major source of revenue.”  Exchange operators receive fees from securities firms that
pay for its quotations and transaction data.  U.S. exchanges and securities firms are grappling with
lower profits as equity volume slows. Trading of exchange-listed
stocks has been shrinking since 2009, when it averaged 9.77
billion shares a day. It fell to 8.52 billion in 2010, 7.8
billion last year and  6.71 billion  so far in 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ) , the largest U.S. stock exchange owners, both reported
first-quarter earnings that missed analysts’ estimates because
of a drop in trading.  “The volume stuff is all about confidence,” Hochron said.
“Whatever action is taken to raise  consumer confidence  can
drive additional trading.”  Volume is also disappearing as the average price of U.S.
shares reaches a record high. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
companies had an average price of $58.52 at the end of April,
the most in Bloomberg data going back more than two decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  