-- Fannie and Freddie Are on the Mend. It’s Time to Fix Them
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-10T23:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/fannie-and-freddie-are-on-the-mend-it-s-time-to-fix-them.html
Followers of the American housing
catastrophe were greeted with encouraging news this week.  Fannie
Mae , the government-owned mortgage-finance company, reported a
$2.7 billion first-quarter profit. For the first time since its
2008 government seizure, it didn’t need to tap the  U.S.
Treasury , even after paying a huge dividend.  Freddie Mac ,
Fannie’s sibling, similarly reported a profit but needed a small
infusion of capital after paying the U.S. a dividend.  These signs of  renewal  may offer a tempting excuse for
President  Barack Obama  to hold off on reforming Fannie and
Freddie. This would be a mistake.  For the last three years, the administration has resisted
touching Fannie and Freddie out of fear of doing more harm than
good to a  sick  housing market. The strategy, while
understandable, has resulted in a sector that is almost totally
dependent on the government: More than 90 percent of new
mortgages are owned or guaranteed by Fannie, Freddie or the
 Federal Housing Administration . Private capital is almost
 nonexistent . As long as Fannie and Freddie have an outsized
presence, plus an endless stream of taxpayer subsidies, the
private sector will stay on the sidelines.  What can be done? We suggest winding down Fannie and
Freddie. This would involve slowly selling off the mortgages and
securities the firms now  own  and honoring their legacy
obligations, including the debt Fannie and Freddie have sold to
investors around the world.  Independent Agency  The next step would require the creation of an independent
government agency, possibly one modeled after the  Federal
Reserve  or Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and ideally one whose
mandate is to supplement, not substitute for, private capital.
It most definitely shouldn’t have dual responsibilities to
shareholders and taxpayers, which is how Fannie and Freddie got
into deep trouble during the housing boom.  The new agency’s mission should be narrow: To provide
insurance on mortgage-backed securities issued by private-sector
entities. Only loans that meet certain tests, including a 10
percent down payment and borrower documentation showing the loan
is affordable, would qualify. Such mortgage-backed securities
have long provided the housing market’s grease by moving risk
off lenders’ books and freeing them to lend again. But private-
sector MBS issuance fell to $1.9 billion in 2011 from $567.8
billion in 2006, according to Bloomberg Government.  The guarantee should be priced to reflect loan risk and
protect taxpayers as much as possible. The government could even
tie the size of the loans it backs to the economic cycle. When
 housing starts  decline -- suggesting market weakness -- the
government could increase the cap on a conforming loan from,
say, $500,000 to $600,000.  The  guarantee fee  should gradually rise as the U.S.
transitions away from Fannie and Freddie. Needless to say, any
transition should be slow and measured to avoid further
weakening the housing market.  The housing crisis has exacted a brutal toll, with  home
prices  falling more than 30 percent since 2006, wiping out  $7
trillion  in household wealth. Recently, however, we see
encouraging -- if mixed -- signs that the market is hitting
bottom. U.S. housing starts dropped in March, yet they’re still
about 10 percent higher than a year ago. Building permits are 30
percent higher than this time last year. Homebuilders say new-
home orders are increasing, no doubt buoyed by historically low
 interest rates . The average  rate  on a 30-year mortgage was 3.83
percent on May 10, an all-time low.  It’s worth pointing out that housing directly accounts for
5 percent of gross domestic product. It is crucial to household
wealth and the overall economy and therefore should be as
central to this year’s presidential campaign as jobs and taxes.
Obama and  Mitt Romney , the likely Republican nominee, should be
pressed to explain what they would do, not just to repair the
housing-finance companies, but to create the conditions for a
smaller, less taxpayer-dependent mortgage market.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: Today’s highlights: the View editors on
 solving Europe’s employment woes ; Stephen L. Carter on the
 overuse of the word “emergency” ;  Jonathan Weil  on  Chinese banks ;
Virginia Postrel on  Amazon’s move into high fashion ;  Jonathan
Alter  on  human capital and venture capital ; Tom Valasek on
 Ukrainian politics and soccer ; Gerald M. Rafshoon on  Mitt Romney
and Jimmy Carter.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 