-- FDA Warns MS Patients Against Unproven Stent Procedure
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-05-10T22:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/fda-warns-ms-patients-against-unproven-stent-procedure.html
The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
warned doctors and patients against the use of an unproven
procedure known as “liberation therapy” that some physicians
have touted as a treatment for multiple sclerosis.  The procedure uses a balloon-tipped catheter or a metal
device called a stent to prop open narrowed blood vessels in the
neck and chest that some investigators claim may exacerbate or
even cause multiple sclerosis, a degenerative disease of the
brain and spinal cord. The therapy has been linked to strokes,
migration of the metal stents, damaged veins, blood clots,
abdominal bleeding and death, the FDA said in a  statement .  The unapproved treatment is used for chronic cerebrospinal
venous insufficiency, which some doctors say may worsen multiple
sclerosis by hindering blood flow from the brain and spinal
cord, the agency said. No studies have conclusively linked
multiple sclerosis to the condition and there is no accepted
method to diagnose it, the FDA said.  “There is no reliable evidence from controlled clinical
trials that this procedure is effective in treating MS,” said
 William Maisel , deputy director for science in the FDA’s Center
for Devices and Radiological Health, who called for study of the
link between multiple sclerosis and narrowed veins. “Patients
are encouraged to discuss the potential risks and benefits of
this procedure with a neurologist” or another doctor familiar
with the procedure, he said in a statement.  Multiple sclerosis , a chronic inflammatory disease, affects
about 400,000 Americans, according to  National Multiple
Sclerosis Society . It stems from damage to the myelin sheath,
fatty tissue that protects nerve fibers in the brain and spinal
cord used to conduct electrical impulses that control movement.  The condition is currently treated with medications,
including  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s Avonex and Tysabri and  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Copaxone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  