-- Seized Financial Firms May Keep Doing Business in FDIC Plan
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-10T19:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/fdic-to-let-foreign-affiliates-operate-during-u-s-resolutions.html
The U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. will let foreign and domestic subsidiaries keep working
when the agency uses its power under the Dodd-Frank Act to
rebuild failing financial firms, acting chairman  Martin Gruenberg  said.  When systemically important firms collapse, the FDIC will
step in and transfer assets and some liabilities to a temporary
bridge holding company, leaving the pre-existing subsidiaries
conducting business, Gruenberg said today at a Federal  Reserve
Bank  of Chicago conference.  “We believe this strategy holds the best possibility of
achieving our key goals of maintaining financial stability,
holding investors in the failed firm accountable for the losses
of the company, and producing a new, viable private-sector
company out of the process,” Gruenberg said.  Dodd-Frank gave the FDIC authority to seize and unwind
systemically important firms, similar to its power to take over
failing banks whose deposits are insured by the agency. Being
able to credibly close down the largest financial companies --
often called too big to fail -- “is essential to subjecting
these companies to meaningful market discipline,” Gruenberg
said.  In the FDIC’s plan, original shareholders would be wiped
out and debt holders would be given equity in the emerging
entity, Gruenberg said. The FDIC would appoint a temporary new
board of directors and chief executive “from the private
sector” for the bridge company, he said. The new equity holders
would then elect a permanent board for the reconstituted
company.  Cross-Border Issues  The bank regulator is negotiating terms with other
countries for the resolution of the big firms, Gruenberg said.
The systemically important firms primarily operate in a
“relatively small number of jurisdictions,” with much of their
non-U.S. business focused in the U.K. In an April 12 speech, he
said that dealing with cross-border resolution issues may be
easier “than is commonly thought.”  The regulator’s plan was outlined at a Jan. 25 meeting of
the FDIC’s Systemic Resolution Advisory Committee. Agency
officials, including Gruenberg, mentioned Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s collapse, when its subsidiaries were cut off
from liquidity, as an example of the need to support the units.  At the January meeting, James Wigand, who leads the
agency’s Office of Complex Financial Institutions, said the
structure of major financial institutions makes them
unresolvable in a bankruptcy process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  