-- Fed’s Kocherlakota Sees ‘Persistent’ Damage to Job Market
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-05-10T19:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/fed-s-kocherlakota-sees-persistent-damage-to-job-market.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis 
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said damage to the labor market
may persist even as the expansion continues, holding U.S.
unemployment higher than the usual rate since World War II.  Central bankers must “contemplate the possibility that the
erosion in labor market performance that we’ve seen in the
 United States  over the past five years may be highly persistent,
even under appropriate monetary policy,” Kocherlakota said
today in a speech in Minneapolis. Accelerating inflation is “a
signal that our country’s current labor market performance is
much closer to ‘maximum employment’ than the post-World War II
U.S. data alone would suggest.”  The Fed in an April 25 statement affirmed a plan to keep
its main  interest rate  near zero through at least late 2014,
citing “elevated”  joblessness . Kocherlakota added today that
he believes interest rates may need to be raised earlier because
the economy is improving.  “We have to be careful not to let things get ahead of
ourselves in the sense that we might have to start to move as
early as I indicated, in six to nine months,” the district bank
head told reporters after the speech. The central bank would
need to begin to “prepare the ground for raising rates” if
“we continue to see inflation ticking upwards,” he said,
citing his forecasts for 2 percent inflation this year and 2.3
percent in 2013.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  last month upgraded its
forecasts for unemployment, growth and inflation for this year
and noted signs the expansion was strengthening. At the same
time, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told reporters after a two-day
FOMC meeting that the Fed is prepared to inject more stimulus
into the economy should the recovery falter.  Mixed Picture  Since then, economic reports have painted a mixed picture
of the economy. Payrolls increased at the slowest pace in six
months in April, according to Labor Department figures released
May 4. Still, a report today showed that jobless claims in the
period ended May 5 fell to a one-month low.  Stocks rose today as concerns over  Greece ’s political
impasse eased, sending the  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index 0.2
percent higher to 1,356.87 as of 3:52 p.m. in  New York .  “I’ve personally been struck by how well they’ve been
doing in the face of the challenges,” he said, referring to
European policy makers’ response to the region’s debt crisis.
“The FOMC statement highlights that there are risks associated
with that situation, but I don’t think that those risks have
changed materially for me in terms of the outlook.”  Core Inflation Up  Kocherlakota added today that so-called core inflation,
which strips out energy and food, has increased “notably.”
Recent labor data suggest that the employment market has become
“less efficient” at matching companies and workers, he said.  As an example of the “profound and persistent” marks that
financial crises can leave on an economy, Kocherlakota cited
 Sweden ’s experience after its financial, banking and currency
crisis in the early 1990s. The Swedish central bank’s estimate
that the rate of sustainable rate of unemployment rose to 6
percent from a range of 2 percent to 3 percent has proven to be
“remarkably accurate,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  