-- Ford CEO Mulally Says He Has No Timetable for Retirement
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-05-10T20:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/ford-ceo-mulally-says-he-has-no-timetable-for-retirement.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  Chief Executive
Officer Alan Mulally said he has no timetable for retirement and
his boss, Executive Chairman Bill Ford, is just fine with that.  “We’ve said 2025, maybe it should be 2030,” Ford joked to
reporters today after the automaker’s annual meeting in
Wilmington, Delaware. Ford referred to possible retirement dates
for Mulally, who would turn 80 in 2025. “It’s been really fun
for the two of us to work together and I for one would like to
see it continue for some time.”  To which Mulally responded, “Me, too.”  Mulally, 66, engineered a turnaround at Ford by globalizing
operations, cutting costs, improving quality and expanding its
lineup with fuel-efficient models such as the Fiesta subcompact.
Ford earned $29.5 billion in the last three years after $30.1
billion in losses from 2006 through 2008.  Bill Ford  said he is
not worried about losing talent at the top of the company over
uncertainty about when Mulally will retire.  “I don’t think there’s any anxiety on anyone’s part about
the timing” of Mulally’s departure, Bill Ford said. “You don’t
see any dissatisfaction among anybody, quite the opposite, they
come to work fired up.”  Mulally said Ford will continue to do well after he leaves.  “We have a very robust  succession plan ,” Mulally said.
“The strength of the leadership and the succession plan bode
well for continuing to profitably grow Ford.”  ‘Tough to Replace’  Uncertainty about Mulally’s retirement is weighing on the
stock, said  Bernie McGinn , president of McGinn Investment
Management in Alexandria,  Virginia , which owns 300,000 Ford
common shares. Investors, also concerned about losses in  Europe 
and  Asia , have traded Ford  down  29 percent from a year ago. Ford
rose 0.2 percent to $10.71 at the close in  New York .  “It’s tough to replace a guy like  Alan Mulally , that’s the
worry,” McGinn said. “Nobody coming in is going to be the
manager that he is. But they also won’t be facing the company he
did when he came in.”  The CEO hasn’t said when he’ll step down or who will
replace him.  Mark Fields , 51, Ford’s president of the Americas,
is considered the leading candidate to succeed Mulally,
according to people familiar with the deliberations.  Mulally joined Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford from  Boeing
Co. (BA)  in 2006 and is presiding over his sixth  annual meeting .  “I haven’t been particularly happy,” McGinn said of the
share performance. “It’s still a good company and a great
story. Hopefully, the price will catch up with the story.”  Blue Oval  After Mulally arrived, Ford borrowed $23.4 billion in late
2006 before credit markets froze. The company pledged all major
assets, including its blue oval logo, as collateral to secure
that financing. That enabled Ford to avoid the bailouts and
bankruptcies that befell the predecessors of  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and Chrysler Group LLC in 2009.  Ford gets the assets back once two major ratings companies
restore the automaker to investment grade. The first of those,
 Fitch Ratings , lifted the automaker to investment grade on April
24, ending six years of so-called junk status.  “I can’t wait until they get the blue oval back,” McGinn
said. “That will be really cool.”  The automaker has repaid more than $21 billion of the money
borrowed in 2006, Mulally said in an April 27 interview on
Bloomberg Television.  Ford resumed paying a  dividend  in March following a five-
year suspension. The automaker March 14 declared a second-
quarter dividend of 5 cents a share payable June 1 to
shareholders of record on May 2.  2012 Targets  Mulally has promised Ford this year will equal 2011’s
pretax operating profit of $8.8 billion. After Ford’s net income
fell 45 percent in the first quarter to $1.4 billion, Mulally
said the company will make more money in the year’s second half
as it rolls out new models such as redesigned versions of the
Fusion sedan and Escape sport-utility vehicle.  Ford said May 8 it will reduce its annual summer shutdown
at 13 North American factories to one week instead of two. The
move, aimed at meeting growing demand for its models, will boost
production by about 40,000 vehicles, Ford said. Ford records
revenue when cars and trucks are sent to dealers from the
factory.  “We are bullish on Ford and see it as ‘further ahead’ as a
company than GM (especially in  North America ),”  Brian Johnson ,
an analyst for  Barclays Capital , wrote in an April 30 note. He
rates Ford “overweight.”  Ford earned a pretax profit of $2.1 billion in North
America in the first quarter, the most since at least 2000, and
had an operating margin of 11.5 percent, more than twice the
return considered respectable in the U.S. auto industry.  Europe Woes  “We expect that engine that’s pulling the company ahead to
keep on pushing us along,” Bob Shanks, Ford’s chief financial
officer, said April 27 of North American operations.  Ford lost $190 million overseas in the first quarter,
including pretax losses of $149 million in Europe and $95
million in the Asia Pacific and Africa region. Ford has said it
will make money in Asia this year, while losing $500 million to
$600 million in Europe, where the sovereign debt crisis has
sapped  consumer confidence  and sent auto sales to a 17-year low.  “Europe is not anything that is going to be fixed soon,”
McGinn said.  Mulally’s turnaround of Ford was so successful that it’s
raised unrealistic expectations among investors, McGinn said.  “Ford used to be considered a lousy company with no
hope,” McGinn said. “Now it’s considered a great company
that’s not living up to expectations. But nobody could.”  Shareholders for the eighth straight time rejected a
proposal, opposed by directors, to strip the founding Ford
family of its 40 percent voting control of the automaker.  The proposal won the backing of 29.5 percent of the shares
voted. Last year, 31.5 percent supported it, the highest ever.
The board includes two family members, Bill Ford, 55, and his
cousin, Edsel Ford II, 63.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Wilmington,  Delaware  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  