-- Germany Examines Bank Use of ECB Loans on Bubble Concern
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-05-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/germany-examines-bank-use-of-ecb-loans-on-bubble-fear.html
German lenders’ use of cheap loans
from the  European Central Bank  is under examination by the
country’s top banking supervisor amid concerns the influx of
funding may eventually create “a new bubble.”  Banks that took “implausibly high” amounts have to
explain how they plan to use the money, said Raimund Roeseler,
head of banking supervision at the country’s financial regulator
Bafin. The exercise is part of a strategy change focusing more
on what banks plan for the future than looking at what they did
in the past, he said.  The ECB has flooded financial markets with more than 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of cheap cash to prevent credit
markets from freezing up. European Union lawmakers have already
demanded that banks disclose profits from carry trades derived
from the so-called longer-term refinancing operations and
exclude the money from bonus pools.  “In the short-term perspective, the main problem is the
European sovereign-debt crisis; in the medium term it’s the
question: what happens with all that liquidity?” Roeseler said
in an interview at his office in Bonn. “If I see a huge number
of banks all go into one field, I’m afraid of a new bubble.”
Bafin will review whether borrowing is in line with refinancing
needs, he said.  While Bafin can’t tell banks to refrain from certain
investments, it can use a variety of regulatory instruments if
it sees risks accumulating, said Roeseler. These include capital
surcharges, asking for continuous reporting or even starting
special audits, he said.  German Banks  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said March 8 that 460 German
banks borrowed money in the ECB’s second three-year tender. The
interest on the loans is tied to the average benchmark rate,
currently at 1 percent, over the maturity of the loan.
 Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest lender, borrowed 16.2
billion euros of ECB three-year loans, Chief Financial Officer
Stephan Engels said May 9.  Bafin’s new strategy stems from lessons the regulator
learned in the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008
collapse. The agency is looking more closely at lenders’
governance issues and risk management, including their business
models, Roeseler said.  Since the Lehman bankruptcy, global regulators approved new
rules known as Basel III that will more than triple the core
capital that lenders must hold to at least 7 percent of their
assets, weighted for risk.  EU governments and lawmakers are now debating how to meet a
January deadline to adopt the measures set out in 2010 by the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . Merely implementing
Basel III won’t be enough, according to Roeseler.  Basel ‘Miss-Kick’  “We won’t get the banking sector stable with Basel III
alone,” said Roeseler. “We also need to be closer to the banks
and watch them intensively,” he said. “If we were to implement
the new rules and not change our attitudes and actions as
supervisors, Basel III would be a miss-kick.”  Bafin set up a new unit that examines how banks perform
compared with their peers. The analysis helps to detect
outliers, said Roeseler.  While regulators aren’t better bankers than those in charge
of the companies they oversee, talking to lenders about these
issues allows them to better monitor them and to take
appropriate steps when risks are accumulating, said Roeseler.  German banks are in a good shape and don’t have refinancing
problems, said Roeseler. They profit from  Germany ’s top credit
ratings and the trust that financial markets have placed in
their home country, an advantage that banks from many other
European countries lack, according to the regulator.  All German banks would survive a Greek default, even if for
some it would be “painful,” said Roeseler. While a Spanish or
Italian default would “put everything into question,” such a
scenario is more than unlikely, he said.  Credit Crunch  Aside from preparing for Basel III, EU lenders faced calls
last year from the European Banking Authority to raise 114.7
billion euros in fresh capital by the end of June as part of
measures introduced to respond to the sovereign-debt crisis.  Tighter  capital requirements  are unlikely to lead to a
credit crunch in the German banking industry, according to
Roeseler. Instead, the country’s banks say that they have
trouble finding enough businesses seeking loans, he said.  “Those who say that Basel III will curb lending are the
same who complain about a ruinous competition among German banks
forcing them to offer loans too cheaply,” said Roeseler.  The London-based EBA set this year’s capital-raising target
after eight banks out of the 90 tested failed 2011 stress tests
with a combined capital shortfall of 2.5 billion euros.  The way the stress tests are carried out should be
overhauled to reflect the change in philosophy at regulators
such as Bafin, said Roeseler, who represents Germany on the
EBA’s boards.  Stress Test Trust  “These stress tests were aimed to calm markets,” Roeseler
said. “They yield a number of how much capital you need and if
you do that on a yearly basis, you may increase capital but not
necessarily trust.”  There is a consensus at the EBA that stress tests need to
be transformed to provide regulators with tools to detect
lender’s weak points, which aren’t limited to capital gaps, he
said.  The exams could “look at risk management deficits and
analyze a bank’s various fields of action and whether  risk  from
different business sectors balance out,” he said.  The EBA set up a  task force  earlier this year to examine a
possible overhaul of the tests’ structure. The next round is
likely to take place at the end of 2013 and would have to
implement the idea, he said.  “We will also have to decide how we communicate the idea
so that the market won’t perceive that as dodging and what
results we should disclose,” said Roeseler. “I’d opt to not
disclose too many details and rather use the test as an internal
tool and real supervising instrument.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 