-- German Stocks Climb; Deutsche Telekom Advances, RWE Falls
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-05-10T16:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/german-stocks-rise-for-second-day-deutsche-telecom-gains.html
German stocks  advanced for a second
day as  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , the nation’s largest phone company,
reported earnings that exceeded estimates, outweighing concern
that Greece may be forced to leave the euro.  Deutsche Telekom advanced 3 percent for the biggest gain in
four months.  Solarworld AG (SWV)  rallied 13 percent as profit also
beat analysts’ projections.  RWE AG (RWE)  declined 1.5 percent after
 Germany ’s second-biggest utility said earnings fell 20 percent
as  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s nuclear phase-out curbed power-
generation earnings.  The DAX Index surged 0.7 percent to 6,518 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt , erasing an earlier drop of as much as 0.5
percent. The gauge has gained  11 percent  this year as U.S.
economic data exceeded forecasts. The broader HDAX Index rose
0.6 percent today.  “ Greece  leaves investors in a limbo between selling,
fearing the whole euro area will go down the drain, or buying,
believing there’s still a global upturn,” said Henrik Drusebjerg, a strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, who
helps oversee $230 billion. “The problem with Greece is that
there’s no time-line, no hint as to when things will settle.”  Greece’s political turmoil entered a fourth day today, with
coalition talks deadlocked, raising the possibility that another
election will have to be held as early as next month.  Greek Talks  Evangelos Venizelos , the socialist Pasok leader and former
finance minister, tried to form a government after receiving a
three-day mandate from President Karolos Papoulias. Alexis
Tsipras, the leader of the left-wing Syriza coalition, yesterday
abandoned his attempt to forge a government, forcing Papoulias
to turn to Pasok, which came third in the elections.  The 17-nation euro area is on the verge of losing one of
its members, according to the Bloomberg Global Poll. Fifty-seven
percent of the 1,253 investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers said at least one country will abandon the
euro by year-end and 80 percent expected more pain for  Europe ’s
bond markets.  Spain  said it will take over Bankia SA and prepared to
inject public funds into the banking group with the most Spanish
real estate as part of efforts to bolster confidence in the
country’s lenders. Spain’s bank bailout fund will convert its
4.5 billion euros ($5.8 billion) of preferred shares in Bankia’s
parent company Banco Financiero & de Ahorros, or BFA, into
voting shares, the  Economy Ministry  said.  China, U.S. Economies  In  China ,  exports  and imports rose less than economists had
estimated in April, adding pressure on the government to ease
policies to spur expansion. Overseas shipments rose 4.9 percent
from a year earlier, the customs bureau said today. That
compared with the 8.5 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 33 analysts. Import growth of 0.3 percent trailed
forecasts for a 10.9 percent gain.  A U.S. report showed that initial  jobless-benefit claims 
fell last week to a one-month low. Claims dropped by 1,000 to
367,000 in the period ended May 5, in line with the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Deutsche Telekom climbed 3 percent to 8.80 euros.  Europe’s
second-largest telephone company  said first-quarter earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization excluding
some items slipped 0.1 percent to 4.48 billion euros ($5.8
billion). The  average estimate  of 21 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had called for 4.4 billion euros of profit.  T-Mobile Merger  Separately, the  company  was said to discuss a merger of its
 T-Mobile USA  Inc. unit with MetroPCS Communications Inc.
Deutsche Telekom has considered a stock-swap transaction that
would give it control over the combined entity, which would be
publicly listed, said two of the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  Other options include an initial public offering or an
outright sale of T-Mobile USA, the people said, adding that
Deutsche Telekom has held talks with other companies.  Solarworld, the biggest German maker of solar panels, rose
13 percent to 1.86 euros, the biggest gain since November.
First-quarter earnings before interest and taxes of 31.5 million
euros exceeded analysts forecasts.  Wincor Nixdorf AG (WIN)  surged 8.2 percent to 31.12 euros as
Berenberg Bank upgraded the German maker of banking machines and
cash registers to buy from hold.  RWE declined 1.5 percent to 31.68 euros. The utility said
first-quarter recurrent net income, the measure used to
calculate the dividend, fell to 1.29 billion euros from 1.61
billion euros a year earlier. That compares with the 1.33
billion-euro average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  