-- German 2012-2016 Tax Revenue to Beat Forecast, Ministry Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-05-10T16:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/german-2012-2016-tax-revenue-to-exceed-forecast-ministry-says.html
German total  tax revenue  from 2012 to
2016 will be 29.4 billion euros ($38.1 billion) more than
estimated, allowing Chancellor Angela Merkel’s coalition to cut
taxes and borrow less at the same time.  Tax revenue this year will total 596.5 billion euros, an
increase of 4.5 billion euros over a November projection, the
 Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement, citing the
conclusions of a three-day meeting of a government-appointed tax
panel in Frankfurt an der Oder, east of Berlin on the border
with Poland. Merkel’s federal government will reap 12.3 billion
euros more than forecast over the five-year period.  “The tax estimate gives the clear signal that we don’t
have a revenue problem,”  Norbert Barthle , the parliamentary
budget spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , said
by telephone. He said it’s time to erase so-called cold
progression, a loss in net income after taxes paid by workers
that move into higher tax brackets after pay increases.  Growing tax revenue in  Europe ’s biggest economy contrasts
with developments in the rest of the euro region. Germany’s
economy will expand 0.6 percent this year, cutting the  budget
deficit  to 0.8 percent of gross domestic product, while the euro
region will post a deficit of 3.2 percent of GDP and shrink 0.3
percent, the  International Monetary Fund  said last month.  Right Path  “The results of the tax estimate show that we’re on the
right fiscal policy path of consolidation and providing growth
impetus,” Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in the
statement. The “pleasing development” of revenue “supports
the rapid reduction of structural new borrowing.”  The German government is obliged to reduce the federal
deficit because of a constitutional “debt brake” that compels
Schaeuble to cut the budget shortfall to 0.35 percent of GDP by
2016.  Otto Fricke, budget spokesman for Merkel’s Free Democratic
Party coalition partner, said cold progression can be alleviated
“without straying from the path of budget consolidation” and
called on the opposition-controlled upper house of parliament to
pass tax cuts worth around 12 billion euros at a session in
Berlin tomorrow.  Merkel’s Cabinet on Dec. 7 agreed to reduce income tax by
around 6 billion euros per year in 2013 and 2014, by increasing
the tax-free allowance and lowering tax rates. The Social
Democrats and the  Green Party , which dominate the upper house,
have said they’ll block the legislation because the government
can’t afford the revenue loss.  “We in the coalition are firmly determined to use the
extra revenue to reduce net new borrowing” this year and cut
taxes from 2013, said Barthle. The federal government’s budget
shortfall is expected to more than double from last year to 34.8
billion euros in 2012, boosted by two cash payments into the
euro region’s permanent financial backstop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  