-- Gilead’s Pill Wins U.S. Panel Backing to Prevent HIV
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-05-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/gilead-s-pill-wins-u-s-panel-backing-to-prevent-hiv.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s HIV drug
Truvada won the backing of a U.S. advisory panel as the first
medicine to keep healthy people from getting the virus through
sexual activity.  The panel of doctors, researchers and patients voted that
Truvada, currently marketed to treat those infected with HIV, is
safe and effective as a form of prevention in high-risk
individuals, including gay men whose partners have the disease.
The  Food and Drug Administration  is expected to decide by June
15 and doesn’t have to follow the panel’s recommendation.  AIDS advocates have debated whether a drug to prevent the
virus will be used appropriately. Opponents said the pill may
give users a false sense of security and could increase risky
behavior. Supporters say it’s a needed tool to reduce
infections. A majority of advisers said the risk of misuse or
developing resistance didn’t outweigh the potential benefit.  “This matters so much. We have got to get this out
there,” said Nancy Padian, a member of the panel and an adjunct
professor at  University of California , Berkeley.  People taking Truvada for prevention should be regularly
tested for HIV to make sure they don’t become infected, in which
case the virus could develop a resistance to the drug, panel
members said.  Gilead, based in  Foster City ,  California , rose 1.2 percent
to $51.25 at the close in New York before the panel’s decision
yesterday.  New Tools  New methods of prevention are needed to decrease the number
of new infections, said Susan Buchbinder, director of AIDS
research at the  San Francisco  Department of  Public Health . She
said condoms fail at least 1 percent of time and cause sexual
dysfunction in as many as 30 percent of men.  “The only way we are going to end the epidemic is through
a combination approach,” Buchbinder told the panel meeting
yesterday at FDA’s headquarters in White Oak,  Maryland . “What
we need are new treatments and prevention strategies to have a
major impact on the US epidemic.”  The number of people infected with HIV rose to 34 million
worldwide in 2009. The virus that leads to AIDS, once a death
sentence, can be reduced to low levels in the blood with use of
combination antiviral medicines such as Truvada. In the U.S.,
the number of HIV infections has been little changed at about
50,000 new infections in recent years and has been increasing
among gay and bi-sexual men.  High-Risk Groups  The $14,000-a-year drug is aimed at an estimated 415,000
Americans who are among those at  high risk  for contracting HIV
from sexual activity, according to the Atlanta-based Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention. These include people whose
spouses or partners have the disease, as well as gay men who had
more than two partners in the past year and didn’t wear condoms
during sex.  Truvada, approved in 2004 for treating HIV infected
patients, makes it harder for the virus to multiply. It can
reduce the risk of HIV as much as 94 percent for people who took
the pill regularly, according to a study cited by the FDA. In
other trials, only 10 percent of participants took the medicine
as prescribed, and one study was halted after no benefit was
gained.  The committee heard from 43 supporters and opponents at
yesterday’s meeting to review the use of the drug as a
preventative.  Sal Guillen, an HIV testing counselor with an HIV-positive
partner, told the panel he wouldn’t take Truvada as a form of
pre-exposure prophylaxis, or PrEP, because of concerns over the
side effects and efficacy. He thinks the drug as a form of
prevention may lead to more risky behavior by people who don’t
understand the importance of taking it every day.  ‘Magic Pill’  “I must say, when I heard about PrEP I got a little
excited and thought maybe we wouldn’t have to use condoms,”
Guillen said. “I wish that Truvada was the magic pill, but I
don’t think it is yet.”  Supporters of approval said that condoms aren’t enough to
reduce new infections. They said the FDA should give doctors and
their patients an option to decide if the treatment is right for
them.  “We need new tools to fight this epidemic that are used as
part of a comprehensive approach,” said  Chris Collins , director
of public policy for  amfAR, The Foundation for AIDS Research , a
New York-based nonprofit group that funds HIV research.  “I
don’t think we should be limiting available to a product based
on assumptions about the behavior of some.”  Education Effort  Gilead said it will give educational material to doctors
and patients about proper use of the drug. The company will also
offer free HIV testing and condoms and an assistance program to
cover the cost for people without prescription drug coverage,
said Andrew Cheng, Gilead’s senior vice president for HIV
therapeutic and development operations.  The committee said they want mechanisms in place to make
sure infected people don’t get the drug for prevention. If
Truvada is used alone, rather than in combination with another
AIDS treatment in an infected person, the virus can develop a
resistance to the drug. Panel members said they weren’t
comfortable relying on doctors to ensure people have a negative
HIV test before prescribing Truvada.  “The harm here is huge,” said Judith Feinberg, an
infectious disease doctor at the University of Cincinnati
College of Medicine. “You become resistant and you don’t know
you’re HIV positive and you go infect another 10 people.”  Truvada, Gilead’s second-leading product, generated 2011
sales of $2.88 million. An experimental pill, called Quad, which
combines four company drugs, will be reviewed today by the FDA
advisory panel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  