-- Global Regulators Unclear on Copying Volcker, RBS’s Norman Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-05-10T20:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/global-regulators-unclear-on-copying-volcker-rbs-s-norman-says.html
While financial-market regulators in
 Europe  and  Asia  will probably implement rules similar to the
Dodd-Frank Act, they may not do the same with the U.S.
proprietary trading ban known as the Volcker rule, according to
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s Stephen Norman.  Regulators are still writing the details of the rules for
the Dodd-Frank Act, the most sweeping overhaul of U.S. financial
regulation since the 1930s, introduced in reaction to the
financial crisis of 2008. The Volcker rule is a provision of the
2010 law that would ban deposit-taking banks from engaging in
proprietary trading.  “The difference here with Dodd-Frank and the Volcker rule
is the other regulators around the world are pretty clear that
they want to follow the Dodd-Frank lead,” Norman, chief
information officer for markets, said today at the Bloomberg
Enterprise Technology Summit hosted by  Bloomberg Link . “It’s
not clear that’s what’s going to happen with Volcker.”  Norman said the Volcker rule isn’t explicit about how
proprietary trading will be defined and which trades will be
affected by the regulation. He added that while the concept to
“make the banks safer” is a sound one, the implications of the
rule have yet to be cleared up.  Foreign banks may have to comply with Volcker if
transactions are processed through companies based in the U.S.,
Norman said. For example, reporting a swap transaction between a
European bank and client to the New York-based Depository Trust
& Clearing Corp. or clearing a trade with  London ’s LCH.Clearnet
Ltd., which has a U.S. subsidiary, could subject the deal to the
rule, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  