-- Goldman Redeems $250 Million Hedge-Fund Stakes on Volcker
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-10T11:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/goldman-redeems-250-million-hedge-fund-stakes-on-volcker.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, redeemed about $250 million from
hedge funds during the first quarter as it begins to comply with
rules requiring banks to reduce such investments.  The firm can “generally” redeem as much as 25 percent of
its holdings in hedge funds at any quarter-end with 91 days’
notice, New York-based Goldman Sachs said in a quarterly filing
today. The company had $3.06 billion in hedge-fund stakes at the
end of March, according to the filing, which didn’t say which
fund investments were pulled during the quarter.  Under the Volcker rule provision of the Dodd-Frank
financial-reform law, federally backed banks are required to
limit their investments in private equity and  hedge funds  to no
more than 3 percent of the fund or 3 percent of the bank’s Tier
1 capital. Goldman Sachs’s fund stakes were worth $17.2 billion
at the end of March and the firm was committed to providing an
additional $7.77 billion to the funds, the filing showed.  “We currently expect to redeem up to approximately 10
percent of certain hedge funds’ total redeemable units per
quarter over 10 consecutive quarters, beginning March 2012 and
ending June 2014,” Goldman Sachs said in the filing. “In
addition, we have limited the firm’s initial investment to 3
percent for certain new funds.”  The fair value of Goldman Sachs’s stakes in private-equity
funds totaled $8.83 billion at the end of March and the company
owed the funds $3.07 billion in “unfunded commitments,”
according to the filing. The value of private debt fund
investments amounted to $3.74 billion. Unfunded commitments to
those funds totaled $3.24 billion, according to the filing.  Transition Period  “The firm continues to manage its existing private-equity
funds taking into account the transition periods under the
Volcker rule,” according to the filing.  Stakes in real estate funds were worth $1.54 billion at the
end of March and the bank owed $1.46 billion to those funds,
according to the filing.  Goldman Sachs’s investments in private-equity, private debt
and real estate funds aren’t eligible for redemption, according
to the filing. The firm expects to receive distributions from
the funds as their underlying assets are sold, “and it is
estimated that substantially all of the underlying assets of the
existing funds will be liquidated over the next 10 years,”
according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  