-- Gold Bulls Weakest in Month as Investors Buy Dollar
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-05-11T16:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/gold-bulls-weakest-in-month-as-investors-buy-dollar.html
Gold traders are the least bullish in
five weeks after the metal erased almost all of this year’s
gains, as political turmoil in  Europe  and mounting optimism
about the U.S. economy drives investors to favor the dollar.  Fourteen of 32 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices
to gain next week and six were neutral, the lowest proportion
since April 6. Bullion futures slid to a four-month low of
$1,572 an ounce today and  hedge funds  are making their smallest
bet on a rally in about three years, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show.  The Dollar Index, a measure against six major counterparts,
rose for nine consecutive days through yesterday, the longest
winning streak since August 2008. Gold fell on seven of those
days, a sign that investors are favoring the currency over the
metal to protect their wealth amid concern that  Greece  may have
to leave the euro. The  U.S. economy  will accelerate this quarter
and in the following three months, according to the mean of 72
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “When the market gets very nervous, then they buy dollars
and gold finds it difficult to rally,” said Jesper Dannesboe,
an analyst at Societe Generale SA in London. “Given what’s
going on in the markets at the moment, any rally will probably
just be a bounce before another setback.”  Flight to Safety  Gold had risen as much as 14 percent to $1,792.70 by Feb.
28 on the Comex in New York, before tumbling to $1,585 today.
This year’s gain of 1.2 percent compares with a little changed
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities and a 5.6 percent
advance in the MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities.
Treasuries returned 0.5 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index
shows.  Bullion reached a record $1,923.70 in September. Prices
slumped as the dollar became the “flight-to-safety asset,”
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a May 9 report. Barclays Plc
cut its 2012 forecast by 8 percent to $1,716 yesterday because
of political uncertainty in Europe and concern that  China ’s
economy will continue to slow.  Some investors may be retreating to cash after $3.01
trillion was wiped from the value of global equities since late
March and commodities slumped to their lowest this year. Prices
have plunged before during gold’s almost sixfold rally since the
end of 2000. It slid to within about 1 percentage point of a
 bear market  on Dec. 29.  August Peak  Speculators held a net-long position of 116,061 U.S.
futures and options as of May 1, CFTC data show. While that’s
7.9 percent more than a week earlier, it’s still 54 percent less
than the peak in August. They held 107,600 contracts on April
24, the fewest since January 2009, the data show.  Open interest, or contracts outstanding, in U.S. futures
rose 1.4 percent in the week ended May 8, as prices slipped 3.5
percent, bourse data show. Rising open interest at a time of
declining prices probably means traders added to bets on lower
prices, Edel Tully, an analyst at UBS AG in  London , wrote in a
report yesterday. Open interest dropped 12 percent since the end
of February and averaged 426,508 so far this year, 14 percent
less than last year’s average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  U.S. Mint  sold 230,500 ounces of gold coins in the
first four months, 43 percent less than a year earlier, data on
its website show. Holdings in gold-backed exchange-traded
products rose 1.1 percent to 2,382.7 metric tons this year,
valued at about $121.4 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Federal Reserve  Record-low  interest rates  from Europe to the U.S. may
sustain demand for bullion, which generally earns investors
returns only through price gains. The  Federal Reserve  has
pledged rates at “exceptionally low levels” at least through
late 2014 and the  Bank of England  kept its benchmark rate at 0.5
percent yesterday, where it has been since March 2009.  Europe’s financial turmoil is reigniting on the second
anniversary of policy makers’ first attempt to curb Greece’s
debt crisis. The country struggled to form a government after
voters swung behind anti-bailout parties. Fifty-seven percent of
investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers
said at least one country will abandon the euro by year-end, a
survey published yesterday showed.  The  International Monetary Fund  forecast last month that
the 17-nation euro region would contract 0.3 percent this year
as the U.S. expands 2.1 percent.  “Financial turmoil and easy money should see gold rally,”
said Adrian Day, the president of Adrian Day Asset Management in
Annapolis,  Maryland . “Once the liquidation phase is over, gold
could rebound smartly.”  Indian Demand  Demand for physical gold in  India , last year’s biggest
buyer, was almost double the daily average when gold traded
close to $1,580, Tully of UBS wrote in her note. India’s
government said May 7 it withdrew an excise duty on precious
metals jewelry after jewelers closed stores in the longest-ever
strike through early April.  Volumes on the benchmark contract on the Shanghai Gold
Exchange doubled to 7,734.4 kilograms (7.73 tons) on May 9 from
the previous day and were the highest in almost two weeks.
China’s gold imports from  Hong Kong  surged more than sixfold to
135,529 kilograms in the first quarter, according to export data
from the Census and Statistics Department of the Hong Kong
government. China doesn’t publish the country’s gold trade data.  This week’s decline took gold’s 14-day relative-strength
index to 31.2. A level of 30 that indicates to some analysts who
study trading charts that a rebound may be due. Goldman expects
prices to advance to $1,840 in six months and $1,940 in 12
months.  London Metal Exchange  In other commodities, 14 of 28 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg expect copper to climb next week and two
were neutral. The metal for delivery in three months, the London
Metal Exchange’s benchmark contract, rose 5.6 percent to
$8,022.75 a ton this year.  Six of 14 people surveyed said raw sugar will decline next
week and three were neutral. The commodity dropped 12 percent to
20.40 cents a pound since the start of January on ICE Futures
U.S. in  New York .  Ten of 25 people surveyed anticipate higher corn prices
next week and six were neutral, while 11 of 26 said soybeans
will advance and six predicted little change. Corn slipped 9.6
percent to $5.8475 a bushel this year as soybeans climbed 18
percent to $14.245 a bushel.  “Uncertainties surrounding the future of Greece will
negatively impact commodity prices,” said Bayram Dincer, an
analyst at LGT Capital Management in Pfaeffikon,  Switzerland .
“We don’t expect that current economic activity is very
commodity-price supportive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  