-- Goldman Lifts ‘Reasonably Possible’ Legal-Loss Estimate
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-10T13:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/goldman-boosts-reasonably-possible-legal-loss-estimate-13-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, raised estimates of potential
losses from legal claims by 13 percent and said a probe into its
handling of Greek finances includes trading and research.  The forecast of “reasonably possible”  legal costs  rose to
$2.7 billion as of March 31 from $2.4 billion three months
earlier, according to a regulatory  filing  today. The New York-
based firm didn’t give specific reasons for the increase.  Banks started releasing estimates of possible losses after
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission told finance chiefs
in October 2010 that they should disclose such costs “when
there is at least a reasonable possibility” they may be
incurred, even if the risk is too low to require reserves.  The estimate doesn’t include potential losses from legal
matters that are at an early stage or where the firm can’t
determine the potential amount, according to the filing.  An investigation of the firm’s financing and swap
transactions with the Greek government, which started about two
years ago, also includes “trading and research activities with
respect to Greek sovereign debt,” according to today’s filing.
“Goldman Sachs has cooperated with the investigations and
reviews,” the company said.  Financial Crisis Probe  Goldman Sachs also disclosed the  U.S. Department of Justice 
and SEC are investigating the firm’s role in the 2008 financial
crisis. Those inquiries stem from last year’s report by the
Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, which said
the firm misled clients about mortgage-related investments
before the crisis. Goldman Sachs has denied wrongdoing.  The company is in arbitration with a California school
district and the cities of Houston,  Texas , and Reno,  Nevada ,
over Goldman Sachs’s role as an underwriter and broker-dealer
for more than $1.7 billion in auction-rate securities from 2004
and 2007, according to the filing. In those cases, which started
in February, the cities and school districts seek unspecified
damages, the firm said.  Goldman Sachs is also facing a suit from the founders and
majority shareholders of Dragon Systems Inc. who exchanged their
stake in Dragon for stock in Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products
NV in 2000, according to the filing. L&H went bankrupt on Nov.
29, 2000. The majority shareholders and Goldman Sachs asked for
summary judgment on various claims last month, according to the
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 