-- Goldman Stands By Gold-Rally Forecast Even as Price Drops
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-05-10T09:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/goldman-stands-by-gold-rally-forecast-even-as-price-drops.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  stood by its
forecast for a rally in gold this year, saying that the precious
metal will advance to $1,840 an ounce over six months as the U.S.
central bank embarks on a third round of stimulus in June.  Gold remains the “currency of last resort,” according to
analysts led by  Jeffrey Currie  in a report dated yesterday, the
same day that the price sank to the lowest level in four months
as  Europe ’s escalating debt crisis boosted the dollar. The
restated gold forecast implies a 16 percent surge.  Concerns that  Greece  may leave the euro reignited Europe’s
crisis this week, driving commodities including gold lower along
with base metals, crude oil and equities as the dollar climbed.
The 17-nation euro area is on the verge of losing one of its
members, according to a Bloomberg Global Poll published today.  “In early 2009, we suggested that gold had become the
currency of last resort, overtaking the U.S. dollar’s status due
to the rising risk of sovereign default and debasement
concerns,” Currie wrote. Even as the U.S. currency advanced and
gold fell on the European crisis in recent months, “it is too
early for the dollar to reclaim this status,” he wrote.  Gold for June delivery on the Comex dropped 0.3 percent to
$1,589.30 an ounce at 5:25 p.m. in  Singapore , declining for a
fourth day as Greek leaders struggled to form a government
following elections at the weekend. The metal, which has lost 17
percent from its all-time high of $1,923.70 in September, is on
course for a fourth monthly drop in May.  ‘Remains in Place’  “The case for higher  gold prices  remains in place,” the
analysts wrote. “U.S. economic and employment data has now
disappointed for several weeks, European election results point
to further stress in the euro area, while anecdotal data
suggests that physical gold demand remains resilient.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve will announce additional monetary
easing when policy makers meet next month,  Jan Hatzius , chief
economist at New York-based Goldman, predicted in a report on
May 8. The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011 to
drive the recovery in the world’s largest economy.  U.S. payrolls climbed by 115,000 workers in April, the
smallest increase in six months, Labor Department reported last
week, boosting concern that the recovery may falter. The jobless
rate fell to a three-year low of 8.1 percent as people left the
 labor force , adding to worries that the expansion is cooling.  ETP Holdings  Gold, which has still risen 1.4 percent in  New York  in 2012,
has rallied for 11 straight years as investors sought a hedge
against inflation and central banks expanded reserves. Holdings
in  bullion-backed  exchange-traded products are at 2,382.016
metric tons, about 1.2 percent below the March 13 record, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Emerging-market central banks continued to purchase gold
for reserves, while demand in largest user  India  may gain after
the government withdrew an excise tax on precious-metal jewelry,
the analysts wrote. A jump in imports into mainland  China  from
 Hong Kong  also pointed to strong growth in demand, they wrote.  Goldman’s forecast for additional easing from the U.S.
central bank is similar to that from  Bill Gross , who runs
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Total Return Fund, the
world’s largest mutual fund. A decision to buy more debt is
“getting closer,” Gross wrote on Twitter this week.  The euro declined to $1.2912 yesterday, the lowest level
since Jan. 23. In the Bloomberg Global Poll, 57 percent of 1,253
investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers
said that at least one country will abandon the euro by year-end.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  