-- Google Plays Catch-Up to Amazon in Fight Over Cloud
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-05-10T23:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/google-plays-catch-up-to-amazon-in-fight-over-cloud.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , which has watched
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  dominate the market for Web-based computer
services, is boosting spending to carve out a bigger piece of
the cloud for itself.  It’s going to be a long campaign. Amazon Web Services,
started six years ago, is used by hundreds of thousands of
companies in 190 countries, allowing them to rent servers for
their websites, support mobile applications and store customer
data. Google has offered cloud-computing services for four years
without gaining much traction.  “We missed it,” said Amit Singh, vice president of
enterprise at  Mountain View , California-based Google. “We have
to get better.”  Google is hiring more engineers and salespeople, increasing
marketing efforts and rolling out new features for businesses
that are demanding faster computing speeds, more storage
capacity and lower costs. Google said its customer roster has
jumped by at least 10 percent each month this year, with clients
ranging from car-sharing startup Getaround Inc. to established
retailers such as Best Buy Co.  The push into Web hosting reflects the urgency of Google’s
search for new revenue streams outside of online advertising,
which now contributes 96 percent of total sales. The company
already operates data centers across the globe to manage more
than 12 billion Internet searches a month and videos uploaded
from 800 million YouTube users.  ‘Important Endeavor’  Making products for businesses is an “incredibly important
endeavor” for the company, Google Chief Information Officer Ben Fried said today at the Bloomberg Enterprise Technology Summit
hosted by  Bloomberg Link  in  New York .  Yet it’s Amazon that’s taken the lead in a market expected
to grow to $10.5 billion by 2014 from $3.7 billion last year,
according to Gartner Inc. Additional competitors include
 Rackspace Hosting Inc. (RAX)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   “Cloud computing is a very large, very attractive market
segment,” said Adam Selipsky, vice president of Amazon Web
Services in  Seattle . “We’ve actually maintained and, in many
cases, extended that early lead.”  It’s not hard to see why. The percentage of companies
planning to use Amazon Web Services rose to 44 percent last year
from 35 percent in 2010, according to a survey by Forrester
Research Inc. Google’s App Engine, the business that provides
online server computers, was preferred by just 13 percent in
2011, down from 23 percent the previous year.  George Zachary, a partner at Charles River Ventures in
 Menlo Park ,  California , estimates that about 90 percent of
startups he meets with use Amazon Web Services.  ‘Incredible Scale’  “Amazon is just running away with the game right now,”
said Zachary, whose investments include Twitter Inc. and Yammer
Inc. Google has “plenty of technology and incredible scale.
They just have to execute,” he said.  Amazon’s record isn’t spotless. Its service crashed one
morning in April 2011, knocking out the websites of companies
including location-based mobile service  Foursquare  and question-
and-answer-site Formspring.me. The same month, hackers used
Amazon Web Services in an attack against Sony Corp.’s online
entertainment systems, according to a person with knowledge of
the matter.  “This could have happened from any computer, and as Sony
stated, there’s no evidence showing the attacks came from AWS,”
Tera Randall, a spokeswoman for Amazon Web Services, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Limited Languages  Google’s efforts have been hampered because it offers a
limited number of languages for programmers and doesn’t let
companies control the operating system and security features.
Its customers tend to run smaller, simpler programs, while
Amazon clients are willing to hand over their entire Web
service, said James Staten, an analyst at Forrester.  Amazon, by contrast, is more flexible. It provides the
infrastructure and lets customers maintain everything in those
servers and storage boxes at its data centers. Google is
building what startups want -- a product that lets companies
focus on developing software and apps without having to spend
extra time and money with mundane matters like server capacity,
said Greg D’Alesandre, project manager for App Engine.  “What we’ve gotten is an enormous amount of experience in
understanding what it takes to run someone else’s application,”
D’Alesandre said. “That’s where we want to focus, and that’s
what we want to be really good at.”  Storage Service  While Google entered the market in 2008, the company
started getting serious about it a year ago, Singh said. It
brought its storage service out of beta testing and released a
product to manage databases. It also started distributing
programs created on App Engine to at least three data centers,
not just one, to ensure the apps keep running.  The company has beefed up customer support and plans to
spend more on sales and marketing around the world. To help
publicize these moves, Google is placing its executives on
industry panels and conferences, according to Shailesh Rao,
director of new products and solutions for enterprise. The
products are getting more attention from within the company as
well, he said.  “We’re innovating at a faster pace than I think we have
before because the demand is there, the investment is there,”
he said. “This is also turning out to be a great place to be
from within Google. I get transfer requests almost every week.”  Early Tester  Elliot Kroo, co-founder of San Francisco-based  Getaround ,
has seen the improvements. Getaround has been using App Engine
since the company’s debut in 2009, partly because Kroo
previously worked at Google and was an early tester of the
product. Only in the past six months has it been complete and
reliable enough for him to recommend it to other entrepreneurs,
he said.  For Getaround, App Engine has helped keep costs down
because the company doesn’t have to spend resources monitoring
its apps and adding servers as needed.  “As a startup, there’s not much systems administration I
want to do,” said Kroo, Getaround’s director of engineering.
“It’s just becoming possible for App Engine to provide anything
you need as a startup.”  Meanwhile, the market is getting more competitive. Amazon’s
business is approaching $1 billion in revenue, according to
analyst estimates. San Antonio-based Rackspace increased sales
at its cloud unit by 88 percent last year to $189.2 million.
Microsoft is promoting its Azure services, while traditional
technology providers International Business Machines Corp. and
Hewlett-Packard Co. also are competing.  DNA Technology  DNAnexus Inc.  Chief Executive Officer Andreas Sundquist
expects Google to be the biggest challenger to Amazon. His
Mountain View-based startup, which provides analytical tools for
DNA sequencing, uses Google’s storage service for the data it
collects. Yet it uses Amazon for servers, because App Engine is
too limiting.  “Certain parts of Google cloud are still playing catch-up
with Amazon,” said Sundquist, whose company is backed by
Google’s venture arm. “Cloud storage is one area where they’re
at parity or even better.”  Looking to the future, Sundquist said if he could only
place two bets on the winners, “they would definitely be on
Google and Amazon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack at   bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy at   alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  