-- Greek Government Mandate Passes to Venizelos’s Pasok
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-05-10T17:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/greek-government-mandate-passes-to-venizelos-s-pasok.html
Greece’s  Evangelos Venizelos , the
socialist Pasok leader and former finance minister, said he saw
the first “good omen” in four days of attempts to form a
coalition government that would avert a new election.  He spoke after Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis
outlined a proposal for a unity government that will work to
keep the country in the euro and the European Union while
negotiating a gradual “disengagement” from bailout austerity
measures.  “Our views are very close,” Venizelos said to reporters
in Athens after meeting with Kouvelis.  Greek political turmoil is in its fourth day after the
inconclusive May 6 elections raised the possibility that another
election will have to be held as early as next month. The
standoff has reignited European concerns over  Greece ’s ability
to hold to terms of its two bailouts negotiated since May 2010.  Kouvelis said the unity government would last until
elections in 2014 and called on all parties to support his
proposal. Venizelos, who received the mandate to form a
government today, will meet with other party leaders tomorrow to
discuss the plan.  With Parliament split and policy makers in Berlin and
Brussels urging Greece to stay the course, the country at the
epicenter of the debt crisis is again facing the risk of an exit
from the euro.  Ultimatum  Syriza party leader Alexis Tsipras, whose party came
second, failed to reach a deal with other leaders after giving
them an ultimatum to renounce support for the EU-led rescue in
order to enter government.  New Democracy  leader Antonis Samaras,
whose party came in first, gave up trying to forge a coalition
after six hours of talks on May 7.  Tsipras demanded Samaras and Venizelos send a letter to the
EU revoking their written pledges to implement austerity
measures. Both Samaras and Venizelos rejected the request.
Samaras said he was being asked “to put my signature to the
destruction of Greece.”  Kouvelis’s Democratic Left party, which has 19 seats in
Parliament, criticized Syriza, saying Tsipras was pushing the
country toward another election.  Two Seats Short  New Democracy and Pasok are two deputies short of the 151
seats needed for a majority in the 300-seat chamber. Syriza came
second with 52 seats, and Pasok placed third with 41 seats. Five
parties opposed to bailout policies are now in parliament.  The Democratic Left wants a “realistic approach to the
gradual disengagement from the bailout through tough talks with
our lenders” and a “commitment to the country remaining in the
euro,” according to a party statement today.  The risk of Greece leaving the euro by the end of 2013 has
risen to as high as 75 percent,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said on May 7.
More than 50 percent of investors predict a nation to exit this
year as Greece’s election impasse threatens to push the debt
crisis to new depths, according to the Bloomberg Global Poll.  European governments cannot force Greece to stay in the
euro if Greek citizens decide to leave, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  Euro Decision  “They will decide whether to stay in the  euro zone  or
not,” Schaeuble said at a conference sponsored by German
broadcaster WDR in Brussels yesterday. “If Greece decides not
to stay in the euro zone, we cannot force Greece.”  Chancellor Angela Merkel , speaking today in Parliament in
Berlin, said growth in the euro area must be spurred through
“structural reform” rather than debt-funded stimulus programs.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.6 percent to
1,363.24 at 12:58 p.m.  New York  time. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  added 69.59 points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,904.65. The
euro rose from a three-month low against the dollar to $1.2959
at 11:30 a.m. New York time after falling to $1.2912 yesterday,
the weakest level since Jan. 23.  Under Greece’s election system, the president can give each
of the three top vote-winning parties a mandate to form a
government that can last for as many as three days. If the
process still fails to yield a coalition, the president must try
to broker a government of national unity, the constitution says.
If that fails, new elections are held.  ‘Risk’  “A second round of elections entails significant risk for
all parties, not just Pasok and New Democracy that could see
their slim support diminishing further, but also for Syriza
given that the ‘fear Factor’ could undermine its support,”
 Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst at Eurasia Group in  London , said in
a note.  An opinion poll showed Syriza would boost its showing if
elections were held again.  Syriza garnered 23.8 percent support, compared with its May
6 election result of 16.8 percent, according to the Marc poll
broadcast on Athens-based Alpha TV today. New Democracy, which
was first with 18.9 percent in the vote, would receive 17.4
percent and Pasok, which came third in the May 6 vote with 13.2
percent, would have 10.8 percent, according to the survey of
1,021 Greeks. No margin of error was given for the poll which
was conducted on May 8 and May 9.  For now, bailout money is still flowing to Greece. The
European Financial Stability Facility yesterday confirmed that a
5.2 billion-euro tranche will be released by the end of June,
with 4.2 billion euros disbursed today. The remaining 1 billion
euros will be released depending on Greece’s financing needs.  Under the terms of the bailout a new government will need
to detail savings of 11 billion euros next month. Greece doesn’t
need any more aid until July, German Deputy Foreign Minister
Michael Link said during a parliamentary hearing in Berlin
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  