-- Green Mountain Founder Fights for Role After Ouster
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/green-mountain-founder-fights-for-role-after-ouster.html
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) 
founder Robert Stiller, ousted as chairman after stock sales
that violated company rules, said he borrowed against his stock
to buy a yacht and is determined to stay involved in the company
he led for three decades.  “We have a strong history of being innovative and that
will continue,” Stiller, 68, said in an interview yesterday.
“I love it, and I will very much be a part of everything going
forward.”  Stiller was stripped of his chairman title and board
committee assignments May 8 after selling about $125.5 million
in stock earlier in the week to meet a margin call on some
loans. Those loans were taken out to buy a 164-foot yacht and to
fund his Heritage Aviation business, he said.  The margin call was forced after the company reported
second-quarter  sales  that trailed analysts’ estimates on May 2,
causing a 48 percent plunge in  Green Mountain  shares the next
day. Green Mountain said Stiller’s sale occurred during a time
when officers were prohibited from trading in company shares.  The company, based in Waterbury, Vermont, called the forced
sales by Stiller and similar ones by board member William D.
Davis “disappointing” and said they will be required to settle
outstanding margin loans by the end of this year.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is reviewing
Stiller’s trades, though it may face obstacles in claiming
securities laws were violated if the shares were sold as part of
a pre-existing agreement, according to a person with knowledge
of the matter.  Not Necessarily Violation  “A violation of company policy isn’t necessarily a
securities law violation,” said  Peter Henning , a former SEC
attorney who is now a securities law professor at  Wayne State
University  in  Detroit . “You’re allowed to use your shares as
collateral, though you’d hope that the company had some
indication that they had pledged such a large percentage of
their shares.”  Stiller, who will remain on the board without pay, said he
hasn’t been contacted by the SEC and wouldn’t be surprised if he
was eventually. Still, he said he was “stunned” by the
dismissal.  “I didn’t think the consequences for what happened would
be as great,” he said. “Certainly, I did violate some company
policy and we do take that policy very seriously.”  The sale brought Stiller’s stake down to about 8.39 million
shares, making him the fifth-largest holder, from 13.4 million
as of March 27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Stiller
also sold stock in  Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc. (KKD)  for almost $50
million on May 7, getting rid of his more than 8 million shares
at $6.15 each, according to a filing yesterday.  Loan Backing  In general, executives take out loans backed by their stock
as a way of obtaining funds without actually selling their
shares. Loans are preferable to selling shares, which generate
taxable  capital gains  and can look bad to investors.  If the shares decline in value, lenders will issue a margin
call in which the executives must either pay down the loans or
provide more collateral. If they fail to do so, the banks seek
to recover their loans by selling some of the stock pledged as
collateral in the open market.  Stiller has put about 12.5 million of his Green Mountain
shares into margin accounts or pledged them as collateral for at
least one loan, according to the company’s latest proxy
statement. Green Mountain’s board amended the company’s internal
trading policy in December to prohibit pledging shares as
collateral as of Jan. 1 and grandfathered in Stiller’s
positions.  One of those loans went to pay for Stiller’s yacht, dubbed
Grace E. The vessel was built in 2004 by Italian shipyard
Codecasa and can accommodate 12 people and 11 crew members,
according to the Superyachts.com Ltd. website.  Company Founding  The yacht shows how far Stiller, who founded Green Mountain
in 1981 as a small  Vermont  cafe and served as chief executive
officer from 1981 until May 2007, has come since his early days
in business. The executive had been “kind of a hippie” in his
youth and wanted to retire and ski in Vermont after selling E-Z
Wider, his cigarette rolling-paper company, in 1980, said John
Trucano, who has known him since the early 1990s.  Even as chief executive officer of Green Mountain, Stiller
didn’t seem the typical corner-office type, said Trucano, who
made the first investment in the Keurig single-serve coffee
brewer in 1995, years before it was sold to Green Mountain.  ‘Final Decision’  “He let other people have most of the meetings and he
would be involved in the final decision,” Trucano said. “He
wasn’t all that active in the day-to-day work back then.”  Stiller entered the  New York  Military Academy in 1957, and
participated in cross country, track and basketball. He later
graduated from Parsons College in Fairfield,  Iowa , with a
bachelor’s degree in administration and accounting. He also
studied industrial engineering at  Syracuse University  for three
years.  His first job was with Stillman Manufacturing, before he
co-founded Robert Burton Associates in 1971 with Burton Rubin.
The two created and later sold their E-Z Wider extra-wide
rolling paper business for $6.2 million.  Nearly a decade after creating Robert Burton Associates and
after cashing out of his cigarette-paper venture, Stiller had a
cup of joe in Waitsfield, Vermont, and decided to buy the cafe
that served it to him.  Hippie Entrepreneurs  After starting as hippie entrepreneurs, they ``kind of
morphed into being serious businessmen,” said  Michael Gross ,
who interviewed both Stiller and Rubin for his 2001 book “The
More Things Change: Why the Baby Boom Won’t Fade Away.”
Stiller, who describes coffee as being spiritual, decided to
invest in the first coffee shop because he saw the market
potential, according to Gross’s  interviews .  While CEO of Green Mountain, Stiller engineered the
purchase of single-serve pioneer Keurig in 2006, turning his
company into a real player in the coffee industry. Keurig’s
dominance in the single-cup beverage market has forced  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  and  Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN)  to make pacts with Green
Mountain to sell K-Cups. Green Mountain also sells  Caribou
Coffee Co. (CBOU)  and Folgers brand portion packs.  Keurig sales sent the shares on a tear, gaining more than
twelve-fold from the end of 2006 through last year. Such rapid
success drew attention and criticism.  Einhorn Criticism  Hedge fund manager  David Einhorn  in October blasted the
company, questioning its accounting practices and saying its
market share had peaked. The company’s most recent blow came
after reporting second-quarter sales of $885.1 million, trailing
analysts’ average estimate of $971.7 million and setting off the
shares’ biggest decline ever.  The company’s market value, which peaked at $17.1 billion
in September, was about $4.08 billion at the close of regular
trading yesterday.  “I never thought we would be as big as we are today nor
have the potential to be so much better,” Stiller said. “I
always thought maybe we’d be a $1 or $2 billion company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  