-- Greece Strives for Government After Election Raises Doubt
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-05-11T10:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/greece-strives-for-government-after-election-raises-doubt.html
Greece’s political leaders are locked
in a fifth day of talks to carve out a government, with  Evangelos Venizelos , the socialist Pasok leader, pressing counterparts on
a proposal for a unity government that would avert a new
election amid mounting concern of a euro exit.  New Democracy leader Antonis Samaras was first to meet with
Venizelos, who received the mandate to form a government
yesterday. Samaras said Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis’s
unity proposal designed to keep the country in the euro region
was similar to his own, meeting two key points of keeping the
country in the currency union and renegotiating bailout
conditions to boost growth.  “We are fighting to form a government and there are still
hopes for this,” Samaras told his lawmakers after the meeting
in comments televised live on state-run NET TV. “If there are
elections, which I repeat there shouldn’t be, the dilemma for
voters then will be whether we stay in Europe and the euro.”  Greece ’s political impasse since the inconclusive May 6
election has raised the possibility another vote will have to be
held as early as next month, threatening the implementation of
austerity pledges. The standoff has reignited European concerns
over Greece’s ability to hold to terms of its two bailouts
negotiated since May 2010 and sparked concerns about the country
leaving the euro.  Opinion Poll  Kouvelis, whose party holds 19 seats in the 300-seat
parliament, said the unity government would last until 2014 and
would have a specific agenda to negotiate a gradual
“disengagement” from bailout austerity measures. He called on
all parties to support his proposal.  The first opinion poll since Greeks voted showed anti-
bailout party Syriza, which placed second in the election, would
boost its showing if new elections were held.  Syriza party leader Alexis Tsipras failed to reach a deal
with other leaders after giving them an ultimatum to renounce
support for the EU-led rescue in order to enter the government.
Samaras, whose party finished first, gave up trying to forge a
coalition after six hours of talks on May 7.  Tsipras demanded that Samaras and Venizelos, the former
finance minister, send a letter to the EU revoking their written
pledges to implement austerity measures. Both rejected the
request, with Samaras saying he was being asked “to put my
signature to the destruction of Greece.”  Coalition Conditions  Kouvelis’s Democratic Left party criticized Syriza
yesterday, saying Tsipras was pushing the country toward another
election and that his insistence on canceling the bailout
agreement “constitutes a break with the euro.”  Kouvelis said today that he won’t join a coalition made up
only of New Democracy and Pasok. In comments broadcast on
private television channel Skai TV he also said his party would
not join forces with Syriza if a new election is called.  Tsipras is to meet Venizelos today at 7 p.m., according to
an e-mailed statement from the Athens-based party.  The risk of Greece leaving the euro by the end of 2013 has
risen to as high as 75 percent,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said on May 7.
More than half of investors predict a nation will exit this year
as Greece’s election impasse threatens to push the debt crisis
to new depths, according to the Bloomberg Global Poll.  ‘Protective Mechanisms’  The euro area could handle Greece’s exit from the currency
union because the risk of contagion has waned, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  was quoted as saying in comments to
the Rheinische Post newspaper.  “We have learned a lot in the last two years and built in
protective mechanisms,” the Dusseldorf-based newspaper quoted
Schaeuble as saying in an  interview  published today, when asked
whether the euro area is girded for a Greek exit. “The risks of
contagion for other countries of the  euro zone  have been reduced
and the euro zone as a whole has become more resistant.”  The  ASE general index  fell 2.5 percent to 625.17 at 12:20
p.m. in  Athens . Standard & Poor’s Index futures declined 0.4
while the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index also lost 0.4 percent. The euro
rose 0.1 percent to $1.2949.  “The euro area has so far failed to make meaningful
progress on the banking sector, has not strengthened EU
institutions materially and, particularly in the case of Greece,
has made little progress on the fiscal position,” according to
 Laurence Boone , Bank of America Merrill Lynch Chief European
Economist, in a note today.  Real Threat  “Therefore, the threat from Greece remains real and Greece
exiting the euro area would likely have contagion effects that
cannot easily be addressed in the current set-up,” according to
the note. Greece will run out of cash by early July if partners
decided to withhold their next aid payment.  The European Financial Stability Facility on May 9
confirmed that a 5.2 billion-euro tranche will be released by
the end of June, with 4.2 billion euros disbursed yesterday. The
remaining 1 billion euros will be released depending on Greece’s
financing needs.  Under the terms of the bailout a new government will need
to detail savings of 11 billion euros next month.  New Democracy  and Pasok, the two parties that supported the
international rescue in an interim government earlier this year,
are two deputies short of the 151 seats needed for a majority in
the 300-seat chamber. Syriza came second with 52 seats, and
Pasok placed third with 41 seats. Five parties opposed to
bailout policies are now in parliament.  Syriza Gains  Syriza would boost its showing if elections were held
again, coming first, though short of an outright majority,
according to a Marc poll on Athens-based Alpha TV yesterday.  Syriza would garner 23.8 percent support, compared with its
May 6 election result of 16.8 percent, while both New Democracy
and Pasok would lose support, according to the survey of 1,021
Greeks.  Stripping out undecided and invalid votes, Syriza would get
27.7 percent, winning 50 bonus seats to hold 128 in the chamber.
The margin of error was 2.5 percentage points for the poll which
was conducted on May 8 and May 9.  “A second round of elections entails significant risk for
all parties, not just Pasok and New Democracy that could see
their slim support diminishing further, but also for Syriza
given that the ‘fear factor’ could undermine its support,”
 Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst at Eurasia Group in  London , said in
an e-mail.  Under Greece’s election system, the president can give each
of the three top vote-winning parties a mandate to form a
government that can last for as many as three days. If the
process still fails to yield a coalition, the president must try
to broker a government of national unity, the constitution says.
If that fails, new elections are held.  -- With assistance from Tom Stoukas, Jonathan Stearns, Antonis
Galanopoulos and Eleni Chrepa in Athens, Jana Randow, Zoe
Schneeweiss and Boris Groendahl in Vienna. Editors:
Kevin Costelloe,  Andrew Davis   To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Tim Quinson
at   tquinson@bloomberg.net ; Jerrold Colten at
   jcolten@bloomberg.net  