-- Iberdrola $1.3 Billion First-Quarter Profit Meets Estimates
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-05-10T10:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/iberdrola-1-3-billion-first-quarter-profit-meets-estimates-1-.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE) ,  Spain ’s biggest
utility, reported first-quarter net income of 1 billion euros
($1.3 billion), matching analysts’ estimates.  Sales rose 10 percent to 9.3 billion euros while operating
profit in Spain fell 10 percent as power generation slumped, the
Bilbao-based company said today in a filing.  Iberdrola is cutting back on investments and looking to
sell assets to pay debt while maintaining dividend payments as
its businesses in Spain and the U.K. endure economic slowdowns
at home and abroad. Net debt was 31.7 billion euros, little
changed from the previous quarter.  “The results once again show the capacity of Iberdrola to
generate positive results in a very complicated macroeconomic
situation,” Chairman  Ignacio Galan  said on a conference call
with analysts today.  The shares gained as much as 2.5 percent in Madrid trading
and were 1.4 percent higher at 3.461 euros at 12:20 p.m. The
stock touched a nine-year low of 3.41 euros this month.  Standard & Poor’s  last week lowered Iberdrola’s long-term
credit rating to BBB+ from A-, three levels from junk. S&P said
the deterioration of the Spanish economy is eroding Iberdrola’s
financial stability.  Real Estate Losses  The yield on Spain’s government bonds surged this week as
the government announced it will part-nationalize  Bankia SA (BKIA) , the
biggest domestic lender that’s struggling to absorb losses on
its real estate holdings. The extra yield investors demand to
hold Spain’s 10-year debt rather than the German benchmark was
456 basis points today compared with 415 at the end of last
week.  “There are things that we can’t control,” Iberdrola Chief
Financial Officer Jose Sainz Armada said on the call. “What we
can do is manage the balance sheet and the ratios in the most
appropriate fashion. The rating is very important but
maintaining liquidity, solidity and  cash flow  comes before
everything.”  Regulatory changes in Spain announced at the end of March
will cost Iberdrola 256 million euros a year in pretax profit,
the company said. Spanish officials are trying to eliminate the
shortfall between costs of supplying power and revenue raised
from clients that has generated about 23 billion euros in debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  