-- ICBC Gets Fed Nod as Chinese Banks Seek U.S. Growth
-- B y   J e r a n   W i t t e n s t e i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-05-10T03:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/icbc-gets-fed-nod-as-chinese-banks-seek-u-s-growth.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd.  won approval to buy a U.S. lender in the biggest opening of
the American banking market to Chinese companies, less than a
week after economic talks in Beijing.  The  Federal Reserve  allowed ICBC to operate as a bank
holding company, buying a controlling stake in  Bank of East Asia
Ltd. (23) ’s U.S. unit. The Fed also allowed Bank of  China  Ltd. and
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. to open U.S. branches, the
regulator said yesterday on its  website .  The  decision , which was reviewed by the Department of
Justice, marks the first time regulators have allowed a Chinese
bank to buy a majority stake in a U.S. depository institution.
ICBC Chairman  Jiang Jianqing  has spent more than $6 billion on
acquisitions in regions spanning  Asia  to South Africa and
America over the past three years, seeking to triple the share
of profit coming from abroad to 10 percent.  “The deal is insignificant to ICBC’s operations but the
implications are profound as it opens up the U.S. market to
further expansion from ICBC,”  Mike Werner , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a note. The
announcement “is a watershed moment, as it makes possible
greater participation from other Chinese banks.”  Toehold for Growth  The $140 million acquisition of 80 percent in Bank of East
Asia’s U.S. arm gives Beijing-based ICBC 10 branches in
 California  and three in New York, a toehold for U.S. growth. The
initial agreement in January 2011 was among as many as 60 signed
by Chinese and U.S. firms during President Hu Jintao’s visit for
talks with President Barack Obama.  “This will be conducive to Chinese banks’ strategy to go
abroad and reduce reliance on the domestic market, where
competition is intensifying and growth is slowing,” said Tang Yayun, a Shanghai-based analyst at Northeast Securities Co.
“Gaining access to the U.S. market is a breakthrough as Chinese
banks normally find it easier to target emerging countries.”  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the nation’s second largest,
is in talks to buy the South American assets of WestLB AG, the
Wall Street Journal reported yesterday, citing a person it
didn’t identify. The bank seeks the assets to pursue commercial
banking in the continent in a deal that may be valued between
$200 million and $300 million and wrapped up by June, the
newspaper said.  A Beijing-based press officer at Construction Bank declined
to comment.  ‘Opens the Door’  The Fed’s ruling may boost the value of U.S. banks as it
“opens the door” for Chinese lenders to pursue mergers and
acquisitions, said  Jaret Seiberg , senior policy analyst at
Guggenheim Securities’ Washington Research Group.  “This could accelerate M&A as Chinese banks may look to
acquire regional banks in order to establish a U.S. footprint,”
Seiberg wrote in a note to clients.  The move came as China raised the ceiling on foreign banks’
investment in its securities ventures for the first time in more
than a decade after the annual Strategic and Economic Dialogue
with the U.S. Banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co. are allowed
to raise their stakes in ventures with domestic securities firms
to as much as 49 percent from the current 33 percent.  ICBC was the largest bank in China at the end of 2011, with
$2.5 trillion in assets, and is about 71 percent-owned by the
government, according to the Fed’s order. Bank of  East Asia ,
based in  Hong Kong , is run by the family of Chairman David Li.  Agricultural Bank  Bank of China, the third-largest Chinese bank by assets,
received approval to open a federal branch in  Chicago , while
Agricultural Bank, the fourth largest, obtained approval to open
a state-licensed branch in New York, according to the Fed.  The U.S. also granted bank holding company status for
ICBC’s government shareholder Central Huijin Investment Ltd. and
that company’s parent, sovereign fund China Investment Corp.  ICBC bought a 70 percent stake in Bank of East Asia’s
Canadian unit for about C$80.3 million ($80.2 million) in 2010
to gain a “strong platform to further expand our businesses and
network across  North America ,” Chairman Jiang said then.  Other Chinese banks have sought to expand in the U.S. An
attempt by Beijing-based  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (600016)  to buy a
controlling stake in UCBH Holdings Inc. ended when UCBH
collapsed in November 2009. Minsheng, which held a 9.9 percent
stake, couldn’t complete the deal because it ran out of time,
not because the plan was rejected by U.S. officials, a person
briefed on the matter said at the time.  Chinese banks previously have been allowed to open U.S.
branches. In 2007, the Fed cleared China Merchants Bank Co. to
open a branch in New York, making it the first Chinese bank to
establish a U.S. presence in more than 15 years. ICBC opened its
first U.S. branch in October 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeran Wittenstein in  San Francisco  at 
 jwittenstei1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 