-- Microsoft Redesigns Bing in Bid to Win Share From Google
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-05-10T19:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/microsoft-redesigns-bing-in-bid-to-win-share-from-google.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  unveiled a new design
for its Bing Internet search engine to make results more social
by listing related functions and content from a user’s friends,
without encroaching on regular query results.  The new design, being introduced in the U.S. over the next
few days, divides the Web page into three. On the left, the
biggest pane displays basic search results. The center column
lists tasks associated with the query -- looking for restaurants
will bring up maps and reservations pages. The final column
shows related content from friends, such as who could help with
the search and who “liked” an eatery on  Facebook (FB)  Inc.’s site.  The update is the biggest change since the release of Bing
three years ago, when Microsoft completely overhauled its search
offerings, the company said in a blog  post  today. Microsoft
accounted for 15.3 percent of U.S. searches in March, according
to ComScore Inc., compared with 66.4 percent for market leader
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  The changes build on a partnership between Microsoft
and Facebook to integrate social data into search results.  Microsoft held an event today in San Francisco to
demonstrate the new product. The new design will be available on
mobile devices in the coming weeks, the company said.  Bing previously listed social content together with regular
search results, though few people used the function, and
customers complained it cluttered the results and made them
“noisy,” said Stefan Weitz, a director for Bing.  Microsoft Study  The Redmond, Washington-based company said its basic search
results are now preferred to Google by users in a recent blind
study it conducted. The study, which shows search results
without telling test subjects whether they are from Bing or
Google, showed 43 percent preferred Bing, while 28 percent
preferred Google. In the same Microsoft study done in January
2011, 34 percent chose Bing to Google’s 38 percent.  The new Bing design’s middle pane, which displays actions
related to queries, relies on partnerships with companies like
Yelp Inc.,  OpenTable Inc. (OPEN)  and ticket-comparison site FanSnap,
Microsoft said.  The social sidebar lets searchers pose the query to their
Facebook friends, gives a list of friends with expertise in the
area of the search and lists people who may be influential on
that topic outside of the searcher’s friend list by culling data
from sites like Twitter Inc., Foursquare Labs Inc., LinkedIn
Corp. and Google’s Google+ social network.  ‘Reinvent Search’  The company is trying to gain users by taking the huge
volume of social data created -- articles people read, songs
they listen to and places they’ve visited -- and funneling it
into search results, said Qi Lu, president of Microsoft’s online
services division, in a speech at the event.  “Search, the gateway to the Web, needs to be reinvented to
unlock that vast potential,” he said. “We aspire to lead
innovation that will reinvent search for the future.”  The pane also has an activity feed that shows questions
your friends have asked and posts they have chosen to share.
Users can answer the questions or “like” the post and the
activity will show up in both Bing and Facebook, the world’s
largest social-networking service.  Google in January announced a service called Search, Plus
Your World, which displays items such as photos, news and
comments users put on Google+ or from friends’ posts. Google
doesn’t have the same types of deals with Facebook and Twitter
that Microsoft does.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  