-- Micron Technology Says It’s in Talks to Acquire Elpida
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-05-10T10:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/micron-technology-says-it-s-in-talks-to-acquire-elpida.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  said it’s in
talks to buy Elpida Memory Inc., the Japanese chipmaker that
filed for bankruptcy in February, adding capacity to make chips
used in personal computers and smartphones.  Micron got the approval from the Tokyo District Court today
to negotiate to acquire Elpida’s entire business, the Boise,
Idaho-based company said in a statement today. Elpida picked
Micron after holding a bidding, the Tokyo-based company said in
a separate  statement .  Acquiring Elpida would double Micron’s share of the global
market for dynamic random-access memory, the most widely used
chips in PCs, to about 24 percent, helping it compete against
industry leader  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Elpida, which has three
factories, also supplies  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  with chips used in iPhones.  Private-equity firm TPG Capital also planned a bid, a
person familiar with the matter said April 6.  SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , the
only company that had publicly expressed interest in buying
Elpida, decided not to participate in the second round of
bidding, the Icheon, South Korea-based company said May 4.  Elpida, with 448 billion yen ($5.6 billion) of debt, sought
protection from creditors after DRAM prices plummeted as they
became a commodity, and as PCs gave way to mobile communication
devices. Elpida was also hurt by a stronger yen, which erodes
the value of its exports.  DRAM Prices  Dan Francisco, a spokesman at Micron, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment outside of regular office
hours. Elpida declined make comments beyond those in its
statement.  The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM declined to
a record 71 cents in November, compared with $4.85 on Sept. 1,
2010, amid slowing personal-computer sales, according to
DRAMeXchange,  Asia ’s biggest spot market for the chips. The
price reached $1.05 today. Samsung maintained its top slot in
the market in the first quarter with a 41.4 percent  share ,
TrendForce Corp. said May 8. Hynix had 23.9 percent, Elpida’s
was 12.4 percent, and Micron held 11.6 percent, the researcher
said.  Taking over Elpida would also enable Boise, Idaho-based
Micron to boost its mobile DRAM business, as the Japanese
chipmaker held a 17 percent of share in the market in the fourth
quarter, TrendForce said. Micron had 7.3 percent in mobile DRAM,
lagging behind Samsung’s 54 percent and Hynix’s 21 percent.  Restructuring Efforts  Yukio Sakamoto, Elpida’s president, is heading the
company’s restructuring efforts after getting court approval to
serve as its trustee March 23. The company plans to submit its
revival plan Aug. 21.  The chipmaker was created through the 1999 merger of the
memory businesses of  NEC Corp. (6701)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)   Toshiba Corp. (6502) 
announced its withdrawal from the DRAM business in 2001 to focus
on making NAND flash memory chips.  While Elpida’s  creditors  may ask for at least $3 billion to
$4 billion, bidders probably won’t offer more than $2 billion,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a March 30 report. Also, a
buyer would have to spend $3 billion during the next 12-18
months to help restore Elpida’s competitiveness, making the deal
risky, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  