-- Lights Go Out in Spain as Cuts Plunge Highways Into Dark
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-05-11T08:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/lights-go-out-in-spain-as-cuts-plunge-highways-into-darkness.html
Cars went barreling along the highway
in darkness, ferrying families from  Madrid  to the beaches of
Catalonia during the Easter holiday season, the black stalks of
unlit streetlamps flicking past their windows. Truck drivers
honked angrily as motorists switched on their full beams to pick
out curves in the road, momentarily dazzling oncoming traffic.  Motorists traveling along the main highway linking the
Spanish capital to Seville and the rest of the south face
similar challenges.  “In some stretches it looks like they’ve been switching
off the lights, in others they are missing the bulbs or the
cables,” says Pascual Cabello, 32, who runs a fleet of eight
trucks. “It’s only going to get worse,” he adds.  The most draconian spending cuts on record are plunging
 Spain ’s cities and highways into darkness as ministries and
mayors struggle to pay for basic services, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its May 14 issue. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is trying to pare the  country’s deficit  by about 27
billion euros ($35 billion), an amount equivalent to almost a
third of central  government spending  last year, to appease
European officials and bond investors.  At the same time, Rajoy is battling the fallout from
Spain’s second recession since 2009. Unemployment had edged up
to 24 percent, pushing up social security payments, damping  tax
revenue  straining the country’s financial system.  Propping up Banks  The government this week said it will use public money to
prop up the banks for the first time and ordered lenders to set
aside another 30 billion euros to cover the real estate losses
buried in their balance sheets. The state will take control of
 Bankia SA (BKIA) , the nation’s fourth-biggest lender, converting 4.5
billion euros of preferred shares into ordinary shares.  Public lighting is one of the more visible casualties of
the hard times.  More than half the highways in Spain that have lighting
installed have either had it switched off or are inadequately
illuminated, according to a report by the Spanish Highways
Association, a lobby group backed by construction firms,
released last month. A spokeswoman at Spain’s Public Works
Ministry, who asked not to be identified by name, said the
government had no obligation to light highways, except for
tunnels, and that the black outs are part of plan to boost
 energy efficiency .  Infrastructure Investment  The Spanish government increased annual public investment
in transport infrastructure by 104 percent from 2000 to 2010,
the second-largest increase among the 11 original members of the
 euro zone , according to the European Union’s statistical agency.
It added 5,200 kilometers (3,200 miles) of highway and built
high-speed rail lines to Barcelona, Valencia and Malaga.  “We had lots of aid from EU funds and created a very fast,
very short-term growth model without thinking about what would
happen when the taps were turned off,” said Jacobo Diaz Pineda,
managing director of the highways association. “Now we can’t
afford to pay the upkeep of what we’ve built.”  Rajoy’s cuts in public works projects are ravaging the
Spanish construction firms like  Fomento de Construcciones y
Contratas SA  that built most of the new infrastructure. FCC,
which has lost about 85 percent from its peak five years ago,
today reported first quarter profit of 16.6 million euros, down
59 percent from the year earlier period.  The company  made more
than 700 million euros in profit in 2007.  Copper Theft  The report from the highway association estimates that the
government needs to invest an additional 5.5 billion euros to
bring up roadways up to scratch--outlays that probably will be
deferred until the economy stages a comeback.  At the same time, Spain’s authorities are having to fight a
surge in thefts of copper power cables that have knocked out
lighting in some areas. In April, the Guardia Civil, the
equivalent of the U.S. National Guard, conducted raids on 20
scrap metal merchants in Cadiz, a city in the south west of the
country.  The crackdown netted 120 tons of mainly copper metal as
well as a 200 year-old canon dating from Spain’s War of
Independence from  France . The 12 persons arrested were part of a
gang that during the past two years has been stealing copper
cable from the lamp posts lining the Madrid to Seville highway,
the Guardia Civil said.  Reduced Visibility  Professional drivers like Cabello, the truck driver from
Malaga said that the limited visibility, along with asphalt
deterioration because of reduced maintenance budgets, risks
reversing improvements in road safety that cut the number of
road deaths by 64 percent over the past decade. Traffic
accidents killed 107 people in April, 4 percent more than the
same month a year ago, and the first increase in 13 months.  “When you go at night with only the lights of your vehicle
it’s just not the same as looking 500 meters ahead with street
lamps,” said Felix Tijero, 52, who runs a business transporting
heavy machinery for construction. “The difference is
dramatic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cristina Lindblad at 
 mlindblad1@bloomberg.net  