-- In Case of Emergency, Read This Now
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-05-10T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/in-case-of-emergency-read-this-now.html
The time has come to declare a state
of emergency to stop the absurd overuse of the term emergency.  Seriously.  When President  Barack Obama  the other day signed an
 executive order  expanding sanctions on the regimes in Iran and
 Syria , he was actually extending a declaration of national
emergency under which we have been living at least since the
mid-1990s. That’s right. Whether you knew it or not, the U.S. is
currently in a state of emergency, declared by President  Bill Clinton  and extended by his two successors. And in a state of
emergency, as the courts generally concede, presidential
authority is broader than it is in ordinary times.  We shouldn’t be surprised. We live in the era of the
ubiquitous emergency, in which every major difficulty rejoices
in the same description; and when everything is an emergency,
everything requires extraordinary means of solution.  Soon the  House of Representatives  may take up
Representative  Paul Ryan ’s “emergency” bill to fix the awful
mess left over from last year’s deficit-reduction negotiations.
Actually many members of Congress, from both parties, have
introduced legislation that would either chip away at the
looming automatic sequestrations, or undo them completely.  Emergency Laws  No doubt some of these bills are fine pieces of
legislation. Others are probably awful. What they have in common
is the word “emergency.” It is in the title of each because it
is in the title of the law each is meant to amend,  a statute 
going by the Orwellian name “ Balanced Budget  and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985.”  At this writing, there are some  153 bills  with the word
“emergency” in the title in the present Congress. To be sure,
many of them include the word necessarily -- they amend the
aforementioned Deficit Control Act, for example, or pertain to
the  Federal Emergency Management Agency . Others do not: the
National Forest Emergency Response Act (which would “immediately
implement hazardous fuels reduction projects” in the national
forests), for example, or the Emergency Judicial Relief Act of
2012 (which would expand the number of federal judges).  The states, too, like to get in on the action. The health-
care law enacted while  Mitt Romney  served as governor of
 Massachusetts  included subsidies for what all sides have come to
refer to as “emergency contraception” -- what pro-lifers have
traditionally labeled “chemical abortifacients,” and pro-
choicers and the media, until recently, “the morning-after
pill.” But “emergency” has a purer ring. Last year, when  Arizona 
sought to rein in the infamous Westboro Baptist Church by
enacting legislation banning protests within 300 feet of a
funeral, the statute was  widely described  as “emergency
legislation” -- the emergency evidently being the nasty signs
the church members carry.  Google’s wonderful Ngram Viewer permits us to track the
frequency of a word in books over the past two centuries. Enter
the word “emergency,” and you will  discover  that its usage rose
only a bit during the Civil War, and declined thereafter, only
to explode in the 20th century. Today, the word “emergency”
occurs almost as frequently as it did at the height of World War
II. In this sense, we do indeed seem to live in the era of the
permanent emergency.  The abuse of the term is yet another sign of the
degeneration of our capacity for public debate. Instead of
advocating for our positions, we tend more and more to label
them, and “emergency” is about as alarming a label as we are
able to invent.  Emergency Language  Without harnessing the power of words to construct actual
arguments, however, we may find it difficult to draw
distinctions and set priorities. That is why it is high time to
fight back against the casual debasement of a word of
considerable power and, when used correctly, great beauty and
utility.  The Oxford English Dictionary displays its usual impatience
at the vulgarization of a perfectly good word. It offers, as the
first definition, “The rising of a submerged body above the
surface of water” -- adding dryly, “Now rare.” The editors label
as “obsolete” the most traditional meaning: “The arising, sudden
or unexpected occurrence.” What they call the “modern” use (this
being the OED, the earliest of their modern exemplars dates from
the 17th century) is this: “a state of things unexpectedly
arising, and urgently demanding immediate action.”  Our habit is to adopt the last half of the definition --
“urgently demanding immediate action” -- a phrase which fits the
frenetic nature of the depressing media circus that leads our
politics on a leash. What we are forgetting is the first half --
“unexpectedly arising” -- with its implication that what makes
an emergency an emergency is precisely our inability to
anticipate it.  We can here see the continuity with the original definition
-- “rising of a submerged body” -- because the notion of both
forms of emergency is that we had no idea what was about to
occur. We are sailing along gaily in the ship of state when
suddenly the behemoth emerging from the ocean depths blocks our
course. We could not have imagined such a horrible beast in our
path, and now face the emergency decision whether to circumvent
it, try to slay it, or bribe it with most-favored-nation status.  By contrast, most of what we label “emergencies” are
predictable. They are important. They are often urgent. They may
even be dire. But they are not, strictly speaking, emergencies.
When we grant them all the same label, we diminish the term’s
power. In our effort to explain that some emergencies are more
emergent than others, we wind up inventing such redundant
neologisms as “dire emergency.”  Elaine Scarry, in her book “Thinking in an Emergency,”
warns that governments overuse the word “emergency” in order to
bypass individual rights and procedural protections. The
proclamation of emergency, she suggests, is precisely the moment
we should be on our guard: Is what we are enduring really so
unprecedented that traditional restraints on state power should
be swept aside, or are those who rule simply choosing the word
to ease passage of their agenda?  Emergency at Sea  Continuing the earlier metaphor of the ship of state, we
might profitably turn to admiralty law -- the law of the sea --
for guidance. The rule laid down by a federal court in the 1808
case of Ross v. The Ship Active, still followed today, involves
the circumstances in which those who hire a ship must reimburse
the master for the cost of his decisions on how best to protect
both crew and cargo: “It must be in a case of emergency, not
produced by the misconduct or unskilfulness of the master, or
commander, and not resulting from the ordinary circumstances of
the voyage.”  Here we see a further restriction on the term. Not only
must an emergency be unanticipated, but those who want to use
the word can’t be the ones who caused it. Thus my nominee for
the silliest use of the word is the district council of
 Washington , which earlier this year adopted  what it called 
“emergency legislation” to limit the cultivation of medical
marijuana.  The reason the problem arose was that the council itself
had just two years earlier jumped on the pot-legalization
bandwagon, never considering that people might actually grow the
stuff. In short, the council was declaring an emergency to clean
up its own mess.  Have examples of your own? Send them along. I’ll address
some of the more intriguing ones in a future column.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
next novel, “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln ,” will be
published in July. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  solving Europe’s
employment woes  and the  futures of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  Chinese banks ; Virginia Postrel on  Amazon’s
move into high fashion ;  Jonathan Alter  on  human capital and
venture capital ; Tom Valasek on  Ukrainian politics and soccer ;
Gerald M. Rafshoon on  Mitt Romney and Jimmy Carter.   To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  