-- Indian Drug Regulator Accused of Corruption and Collusion
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-05-10T09:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/indian-drug-regulator-accused-of-corruption-and-collusion.html
India’s top drug regulatory agency
violated laws and colluded with pharmaceutical companies to
approve medicines without clinical trials, a parliamentary panel
said in a report.  The  Central Drugs Standard Control Organization  which
oversees clinical trials and India’s 10,000 drugmakers, approved
medicines from companies including  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK)  and Mumbai-based  Cipla Ltd. (CIPLA)  without clinical trials required
to be done in the country, the standing committee on health and
family welfare said in a report tabled in parliament on May 8.  The committee also found drugs that were banned in the
U.S., Europe and most developed countries because of their
adverse side effects had been approved for sale in India.  “There is sufficient evidence on record to conclude that
there is collusive nexus between drug manufacturers, some
functionaries of CDSCO and some medical experts,” the report
said. “Such irregular approvals spare drug producers the cost
and efforts but put Indian patients at risk.”  The findings reveal an agency that may be putting industry
interests over public health, in a country where pharmaceutical
sales have increased an average of 14 percent annually since
2005. The regulator is understaffed, overburdened with drug
approval applications and ineffective at regulating drugmakers,
according to the report.  Harish Kumar, an assistant to G.N. Singh,  Drugs Controller
General of India , said the top official at the regulatory body
was not at his office.  ‘Global Ethical Standard’  Novartis follows “one global ethical standard for
conducting clinical trials,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement. Glaxo received a local clinical trial waiver from
Indian authorities in 2010 for its ambrisentan drug to treat a
rare form of hypertension, the London-based company said in an
e-mailed statement. The drug is sold in 44 countries.  Jaisingh Krishnan, a spokesman for Cipla, India’s third-
biggest drugmaker, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking
comment.  Systemic flaws ranging from lax oversight of clinical
trials and the absence of a system to monitor side effects of
newly introduced medicines have meant the agency lacks the
authority of its counterparts like the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  and the U.K’s  Medicines and Healthcare Products
Regulatory Agency .  ‘Very Lax’  “The rules for clinical trials are very lax in India,”
Anand Rai, an activist who has filed a case in the country’s top
court claiming irregularities in the way patients for trials are
chosen, said in a telephone interview. “The rules and
regulations in  Europe  and the U.S. are very strict. In India we
have so many loopholes that are exploited by pharmaceutical
companies.”  Several clinical trials approved by the agency didn’t have
a representative mix of patients from India’s main ethnic
groups, rendering the data inconclusive.  “Such trials do not produce any useful data and merely
serve to complete the formality of documentation,” the authors,
including at least 30 members of parliament, said.  Investigation  The findings were based on a 1 1/2-year investigation of 42
medicines that were approved by the agency from 2004 to 2010. Of
these, 31 new drugs were approved without conducting clinical
trials on Indian patients.  At least two medicines, Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN) ’s dronedarone
and aliskiran from Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis were
approved on the basis of trials that were conducted on less than
50 people in India, even though the laws require a minimum of
100 patients.  The country has 92,000 brand names of registered
pharmaceuticals, according to a compendium of medicines sold in
the country. The  World Health Organization , in contrast,
recommends 340 essential drugs. About 90 percent of drugs sold
are generics, which their manufacturers seek to differentiate
with unique names -- making them branded generics.  The agency’s ease in granting approvals has resulted in
hundreds of combinations of antibiotics being introduced in the
last five years, and this may be playing a role to the emergence
of antibiotic resistance in the country, said Narayan Prasad, an
assistant professor of nephrology at the government-run Sanjay
Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow.  “A number of unjustifiable combinations have come into the
market, and it’s the government’s job to prevent this from
happening,” Prasad said.  India  bans prescription-drug advertising, so companies use
a sales force of 100,000 that is predicted to at least triple by
2020. The country’s market is estimated at $12.4 billion
according to data from the All India Organization of Chemists
and Druggists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  