-- Indonesia Takes Steps to Reduce Cash as Interest Rate Held
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-05-10T09:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/indonesia-holds-key-rate-as-rupiah-drop-flags-inflation-risk.html
Indonesia  took steps to reduce excess
funds in the economy while extending a pause in interest-rate
cuts as a declining currency and the threat of higher fuel
prices push up inflation risks. The rupiah rose.  Bank Indonesia will raise the rates on central bank bills
and term deposits of all tenors starting today to absorb
liquidity, it said in Jakarta, without specifying the levels.
Governor Darmin Nasution and his board held the  reference rate 
at 5.75 percent, a decision predicted by all 21 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Pressure to reverse monetary easing is mounting in
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy after  inflation  accelerated to
4.5 percent in April, with the government’s bid to contain fuel
subsidies and a weakening rupiah threatening to boost prices. At
the same time, a  growth  slowdown to 6.3 percent last quarter has
reduced the scope for raising rates.  “This is a signal that BI will start to normalize its
monetary policy,” said David Sumual, a Jakarta-based economist
at PT Bank Central Asia. “The period for cutting rates is over
unless there’s a risk of a deepening global slowdown.”  The rupiah climbed 0.9 percent to 9,183 per dollar at 4:05
p.m. in Jakarta, paring its loss this year to about 1 percent.
Before today’s central bank measures, the currency had fallen
about 2 percent this year, the worst performer after the yen in
a basket of 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It fell to
its weakest in almost two years last week.  Yields Rise  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to a four-
month high of 6.21 percent, according to closing prices from the
Inter Dealer Market Association. It’s climbed 17 basis points
this week.  Asian nations have diverged as some kept rates steady or
cut borrowing costs to shield their economies from  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a growth slowdown in  China , while others tightened to
limit price gains.  Indonesia has kept its benchmark unchanged for three
straight meetings since an unexpected reduction in February,
while  South Korea  held borrowing costs at 3.25 percent for the
11th time today.  Bank Indonesia is raising the rates of all its monetary
instruments of all tenors because of inflationary pressure and
the rupiah’s weakness, Hendar, director of monetary policy at
the central bank, said today. The purpose is to push up the
yields of medium and long-term  government bonds , said Hendar,
who uses only one name.  Preferred Course  The central bank sold 7.17 trillion rupiah ($781 million)
of nine-month bills at 4.23785 percent and 220 billion rupiah of
nine-month Shariah-compliant bills at a yield of 4.23785 percent,
it said in a statement today.  Tightening via short-term monetary instruments “rather
than via the policy rate, is the preferred first course of
action,” said Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch. “BI will likely keep the policy rate
on hold given the uncertainty over fuel prices and inflation
outlook.”  Consumer-price pressure is manageable,  Bank Indonesia  said
today, adding it would continue to absorb liquidity in the
market. It maintained its gross domestic product growth forecast
for the year at 6.3 percent to 6.7 percent.  Inflation Target  The monetary authority said the rupiah would strengthen,
and kept its inflation target for 2012 and 2013 at 3.5 percent
to 5.5 percent. Lending growth was 24.9 percent from a year
earlier as of March.  The country’s parliament rejected a proposal for a 33
percent increase in subsidized-fuel prices from April 1 after
public protests. Lawmakers instead allowed the government to
raise prices only if the Indonesia Crude Price exceeds the state
budgetary assumption of $105 a barrel by 15 percent over a six
month period. Authorities now plan to cap the sale of below
market-rate fuel for certain vehicles.  “Even if subsidized fuel prices are not raised this year,
we would expect headline inflation to get close to 6 percent by
year-end, rising further during the course of 2013,” said
 Robert Prior-Wandesforde , Singapore-based director of Asian
economics at Credit Suisse Group AG. “Nevertheless, in view of
what we see as a ‘go for growth’ policy in Indonesia, it seems
unlikely that the politically sensitive policy rate would be
hiked” until inflation is at least half a percentage point
higher, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  