-- Indonesian Aircraft Crash Rescue Efforts Halted Overnight
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2012-05-10T13:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/indonesian-aircraft-crash-rescue-efforts-halted-overnight.html
Indonesian authorities suspended
efforts to reach a Russian-made Sukhoi SuperJet 100 that crashed
into a remote mountainside yesterday during a promotional flight
as deteriorating weather hampered access.  There were no signs of survivors among the 45 people on
board. Helicopter operations were halted and will resume in the
morning, National Search and Rescue Agency head Daryatmo said at
a press conference at Jakarta’s Halim Perdana airport today. He
said ground rescue forces haven’t reached the crash site,
contrary to earlier comments from the agency about personnel
being on location.  “The ground search and rescue team of 78 people has
reached 1,900 meters, quite close to the crash site, but because
of the dangerous environment, I called off the search for
today,” Daryatmo said. “They are around 700 meters below the
crash site.”  The aircraft’s data recorder has yet to be found, and the
plane was probably not transmitting signals when it crashed,
Gagah Prakoso, a spokesman for the rescue agency, said. The
plane disappeared from radar screens yesterday about 20 minutes
after takeoff, carrying potential customers and journalists.  Femi Adi, a Bloomberg News reporter, is believed to have
been among the passengers on the plane.  Criminal Probe  About 600 people, including military and police, have been
deployed in the search since late yesterday, Prakoso said.
Prakoso had said earlier today that airlifting of crash victims
would begin in the afternoon once a helicopter landing site was
cleared.  Russia  opened a criminal probe into the crash, Interfax
reported, citing the country’s Investigative Committee. Prime
Minister Dmitry Medvedev also ordered an investigation by the
Industry Ministry, Foreign Ministry and state-controlled
planemaker United Aircraft Corp.  The SuperJet is spearheading attempts to revive Russia’s
aerospace industry, which has languished since the  Soviet Union 
collapsed in 1991. Yesterday’s crash was probably caused by
human error, acting Deputy Prime Minister  Dmitry Rogozin  told
reporters in Nizhny Tagil, a Ural Mountains city, today. The jet
has a “great future,” he said.  Sales Tour  A team from Russia will arrive in  Indonesia  tonight, and
local authorities will lead the investigation with the help from
the Russian transport safety agency, Tatang Kurniadi, who heads
the National Transportation Safety Committee, said in Jakarta.  The crash site on Mount Salak in West Java is about six
hours’ walk from the agency’s command post in Cidahu, Daryatmo
said earlier today.  The SuperJet disappeared after the crew asked air-traffic
control for permission to descend to 6,000 feet (1,828 meters)
from 10,000 feet, he said. The pilots didn’t explain the change
of course. The weather was slightly rainy and there were no
obvious signs of trouble, Daryatmo said.  The plane was on an Asian sales tour, which had included
stops in Myanmar, Pakistan and  Kazakhstan . Further appearances
were planned in Laos and  Vietnam , Olga Kayukova, a spokeswoman
for Sukhoi owner United Aircraft, said by phone yesterday. The
planemaker also intended to send staff to Indonesia to support
rescue and investigation efforts.  Pre-Flight Checks  The twin-engine regional jet, which can carry about 100
people, was developed with  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s Alenia Aeronautica
SpA. It has an operating range of as much as 4,578 kilometers
(2,845 miles). The aircraft is a challenger to regional jets
built by  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and  Embraer SA. (EMBR3) , as well as to models
being developed by Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China and
Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp.  Sukhoi said the jet had gone through a full pre-flight
check and displayed the “proper technical condition.” There
also hadn’t been any problems during an earlier flight the same
day, it said in a statement on its website.  The jet was commanded by a “very experienced crew”
consisting of Chief Test Pilot Alexander Yablontsev and co-pilot
Alexander Kochetkov, it said.  Russia’s aviation industry has sought to overcome the image
of outdated aircraft prone to accidents. The country suffered 99
deaths after five jetliner accidents through late September last
year, according to the most recent figures available from
researcher Ascend Worldwide Ltd.  Russia’s Aging Fleet  Following an accident last year when a plane carrying the
Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey team failed to gain altitude,
Medvedev, who was then president, said Russia might turn to
foreign aircraft producers to ensure safety of  air travel .  The age of Russia’s domestically manufactured single-aisle
aircraft fleet is between 25 years and 30 years, while the U.S.
fleet averages about 13 years, according to figures published
late last year by Ascend, a London-based aviation consultant.  Development (EASTW)  and  capital costs  for the SuperJet were about
$1 billion, according to Fairfax, Virginia-based Teal Group,
with another $1 billion for the engines and customer support.
The list price is $28 million. The plane had 170 orders in
total, according to Teal. Sukhoi itself has not disclosed order
numbers.  Customers include  Armenia ’s Armavia and Russia’s flagship
airline OAO Aeroflot, and the eight aircraft in service for two
carriers have accumulated more than 3,500 flights. PT Sky
Aviation, an Indonesian carrier, has ordered 12.  The plane, which seats five abreast, uses engines built by
PowerJet, a venture between Snecma, a unit of  Safran SA (SAF) , and NPO
Saturn. Safran’s Messier-Dowty unit also provides the integrated
landing gear system, with B/E Aerospace providing the doors.
Italy’s Avio provides the gearbox for the propulsion systems and
Safran’s Aircelle unit provides the engine nacelles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  