-- Intel Counters Cisco, Says Corporate Demand Is Unchanged
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-05-10T23:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/intel-just-getting-started-in-mobile-market-ceo-says.html
Intel Corp. Chief Executive Officer
 Paul Otellini  said demand from large corporations is in line
with the company’s expectations, including in  Europe , countering
comments yesterday from  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   “We haven’t seen any change in enterprise in Europe,”
Otellini said today at a meeting for investors at the company’s
headquarters in  Santa Clara ,  California . “The year is playing
out just as we expected. Enterprise is good. It’s not
fantastic.” Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, also
reaffirmed its forecasts for the second quarter.  Cisco, the biggest maker of computer-networking gear,
yesterday forecast quarterly sales and profit that missed
analysts’ estimates. Cisco CEO  John Chambers  said big companies
were hesitant to spend, and that the company was concerned about
demand in Europe. Because of the two companies’ size and
worldwide reach, investors watch Intel’s and Cisco’s earnings
performance to gauge demand in the broader global economy.  Otellini said Chambers’s comments may reflect competitive
issues rather than the weakness in Europe that Cisco cited.  “I don’t see what he’s seeing,” Otellini said.  John Earnhardt, a spokesman for Cisco, declined to comment.  Intel  shares  gained less than 1 percent to $27.24 at the
close in  New York . The stock has increased 12 percent this year.
Cisco dropped 10 percent to $16.81 today, following the
company’s disappointing forecast late yesterday.  Mobile  Intel’s chief executive also said the company’s effort to
get more chips into mobile phones is just getting under way and
it plans to announce more customer wins in the wireless market.  “We intend to be a leader in this business,” Otellini
said in the presentation. “We’re just getting started here.
You’ll see more announcements coming.”  Intel’s processors run more than 80 percent of the world’s
personal computers. The company has struggled for more than 10
years to make headway in the mobile-phone market, which is led
by Qualcomm Inc.  Otellini, 61, also said the cost of building factories that
are capable of producing the most advanced chips is going up and
the process itself is becoming more difficult. A current state-
of-the-art plant costs more than $5 billion, he said, and that
will rise to more than $10 billion within this decade as the
industry shifts to using 450-millimeter disks of silicon from
300 millimeter.  “Much of the industry will move towards increased
consolidation,” said Otellini. “The ability to operate on the
leading edge will get harder and harder.”  Rising Costs  Otellini predicted that only “one or two” other chip
companies will be able to match  Intel (INTC)  in building such
production facilities.  Intel’s costs are rising as it overhauls older plants and
builds new ones in a shift to more advanced production. The
company expects to recoup that investment when the factories
reach full output, and Intel is sticking to its gross margin
forecast of 64 percent for the year, Chief Financial Officer
Stacy Smith said in April. At the time, Intel forecast second-
quarter gross margin that was lower than some analysts
predicted.  Gross margin , or the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting costs of production, will be about 62 percent in the
second quarter, the company said last month. Analysts had
projected gross margin of 63.5 percent for the period, the
average estimate compiled by Bloomberg. Intel also said sales in
the current period would be $13.6 billion, plus or minus $500
million.  At the meeting today, Tom Kilroy, Intel’s head of sales,
said the company is comfortable with its second-quarter
predictions. While the consumer market remains “somewhat
sluggish,” emerging market and corporate demand is strong, he
said.  Gross margin is the only measure of profitability that
Intel predicts. The margin reached almost 65 percent last year,
boosted by rising average prices for Intel’s chips amid a lack
of competition.  For 2013, Intel expects gross margin will stay at the high
end of its historical range, Smith said. Gross margin in the
past 10 years has ranged from about 50 percent in 2002 to 63
percent last year, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . It
reached a record 65 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  