-- Islamists Predict Victory as Algerians Head to the Polls
-- B y   S a l a h   S l i m a n i
-- 2012-05-10T23:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/islamists-predict-victory-as-algerians-head-to-the-polls.html
Algeria ’s parliamentary elections
drew 44.4 percent by the time polls closed at 8 p.m., Interior
Minister Daho Ouled Kablia said in comments aired on state
television last night.  Officials, worried that the vote could fall below the 35
percent turnout that emerged in the 2007 elections, had called
on citizens to cast their ballots and help make their mark on
the country.  “The Algerian people have demonstrated their political
awareness and their capacity to be ready for the challenge to
answer the call of the nation,” Ouled Kablia said.  The race, the freest in the oil-rich North African country
since 1991, may offer Islamists stronger footing in the
parliament, mirroring gains by their counterparts in  Egypt  and
 Tunisia , where the Arab Spring uprisings that sidestepped
Algeria pushed Islamist parties to the political forefront.  The Green Algeria Alliance, an Islamist bloc that groups
the Movement of Society for Peace, Ennahda and the Islah party,
expected a strong showing in the vote, in which 44 parties are
vying for places in the newly expanded 462-seat legislature.  Growing support in the past few weeks “makes us believe we
will be the first political force in Algeria,” Kamel Mida, the
alliance’s spokesman, said by telephone from Algiers.  Algerians say is they mistrust officials who have done
little to improve the economic conditions in the country, where
the latest figures show unemployment at 10 percent.  Voter Mistrust  “A lot of the candidates are implicated in corruption
scandals and the only reason they’re running is to get
parliamentary immunity,” 35-year-old Abdel-Nour Tejani, who is
unemployed, said in an interview in Bab Al-Wad, the Algerian
capital’s largest lower-income neighborhood. “Why would I give
my vote to any of them?”  Algerians suffered through a decade of violence that left
more than 200,000 people dead and was sparked by the military’s
intervention in the 1991 vote that Islamists were poised to win.  The National Liberation Front, or FLN, which holds the
largest bloc of seats in the current parliament and is the party
of President Abdelaziz Bouteflika, predicted the Islamists
wouldn’t secure more than 30 percent of the seats.  The FLN and the National Rally for Democracy, or RND, are
seen as the main contenders in the race, along with the Islamist
bloc. The RND is the party of Algerian Prime Minister Ahmed
Ouyahia.  Organizations including the  United Nations , the European
Union and the  Arab League  have sent observers to monitor the
vote. The results will be announced today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salah Slimani in Algiers through the Cairo newsroom at
   sslimani2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  