-- Island Nations Criticize EU Over Kyoto Climate Deal Extension
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-05-10T14:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/island-nations-criticize-eu-over-kyoto-climate-deal-extension.html
A bloc of 42 island nations said the
European Union is backtracking on agreements made at the last
round of  United Nations  climate talks in Durban, South Africa,
threatening the environmental integrity of an eventual treaty.  The 27-nation EU joined with the  Alliance of Small Island
States  and other developing nations in Durban to push for a road
map leading to a new climate treaty drawing in all nations. Now
the Europeans are pulling back from some commitments, according
to a statement e-mailed today by the island bloc.  The EU in Durban agreed to accept new emissions targets
after 2012, while working to increase the global ambition of
greenhouse gas cuts. EU environment ministers on March 12 opted
for an eight-year second commitment period of the  Kyoto Protocol 
that ends in 2020, three years longer than the island nations
want. At the same time, the low-lying nations are seeking deeper
emissions cuts to contain temperature gains and sea-level rises.  “Regrettably, our shared concerns seemed to have diverged
when our planes left  South Africa ,” Marlene Moses, chairwoman
of the alliance and Nauru’s ambassador to the United Nations,
said in the statement. “The EU is resisting elements key to the
environmental integrity of the climate treaty,” she said,
citing the length of Kyoto’s second commitment period and a
failure to accept more ambitious mitigation targets.  Five-Year Commitment  The next two-week round of UN talks starts in Bonn on May
14, with the second set of Kyoto targets a key decision to be
made by year-end, when the first commitment period ends. The
islands seek a five-year commitment period because they say a
longer one would delay action by the U.S.,  China ,  Japan  and
 Russia , which won’t have targets under Kyoto’s next phase.  The EU in Durban said it preferred an eight-year commitment
period because it has already set domestic targets for 2020,
while leaving open the possibility of a five-year period. The
bloc has set itself a target of reducing emissions by 20 percent
from 1990 levels by 2020, and says it’s open to increasing that
to 30 percent depending on the action of other nations.  European Climate Action Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said
today in an interview in Brussels that it will be “very, very
challenging” for the bloc to raise its target to 30 percent
before the next ministerial-level talks in Doha, Qatar, in
November.  Isaac Valero-Ladron, an EU climate spokesman, said by phone
that the bloc has a “strong willingness” to keep working with
the island nations, and that an eight-year commitment period
makes sense because of existing European laws that have targets
for 2020. “That doesn’t mean we’re not going to fight for more
ambition,” he said.  While envoys at the UN talks have set themselves a target
of containing global warming since industrialization to 2
degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit), the island nations
want a 1.5-degree cap to the temperature gain because they fear
the effects, including sea-level rise, of a 2-degree increase
could be too much for islands to cope.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 