-- Hitachi Forecasts 16% Increase in Annual Operating Profit
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-05-10T11:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/hitachi-forecasts-16-increase-in-annual-operating-profit.html
Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ,  Japan ’s second-largest
manufacturer, predicted a 16 percent jump in annual operating
profit helped by overseas demand for thermal-power stations and
a rebound in production following natural disasters last year.  Operating profit may rise to 480 billion yen ($6 billion)
in the year ending March 31 from 412.3 billion yen a year
earlier, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement today. That
was in line with analyst estimates. Net income may drop 42
percent to 200 billion yen after a year-earlier one-time gain
from the sale of a hard-disk drive unit.  Demand for coal-fired power stations in  emerging markets 
will help Hitachi’s power-systems business return to profit
following a loss caused by difficulties with boilers and project
delays in  Europe  last year. The maker of trains, auto-parts and
air-conditioners also suffered factory disruptions in 2011
because of floods in  Thailand  and a tsunami in Japan.  “Hitachi should increase its focus on emerging markets to
expand sales,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees the
equivalent of about $600 million in assets in  Tokyo  at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. “It should be able to leverage the
strength of its power-generation equipment and train-making
units.” Akino holds Hitachi shares, he said.  Sales may drop 5.9 percent to 9.1 trillion yen, Hitachi
said. The company was expected to predict operating profit of
484.9 billion yen, based on the average of 20  analysts’
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Power Stations  The power-systems unit will probably make an operating
profit of 22 billion yen this fiscal year, compared with a 33.9
billion yen loss a year earlier, Hitachi said. Revenue from
overseas and renewable-energy equipment will offset waning
demand for nuclear power systems, and thermal-power equipment in
Japan, the company said.  Hitachi climbed 1.7 percent to 484 yen in Tokyo trading
today, ahead of the earnings announcement. It has risen 20
percent this year, compared with a 6.6 percent increase for the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  The company expects its digital media and consumer products
division to break even this year as it restructures TV-making
operations to counter a stronger yen and competition from
Samsung Electronics Co. and LG Electronics Inc. The unit, which
also makes home appliances and air-conditioners, plans to stop
making TVs in Japan in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  