-- Italy Industrial Output Unexpectedly Rebounds Amid Slump
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-05-10T14:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/italy-industrial-output-unexpectedly-rebounds-amid-slump.html
Italian industrial  production 
rebounded in March even as the country’s fourth recession since
2001 weighs on demand for manufactured goods.  Output rose 0.5 percent from February, when it declined 0.7
percent, national statistics office  Istat  said in  Rome  today.
Economists forecast a gain of 0.1 percent, according to the
median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Production
fell 5.8 percent from a year ago on a workday-adjusted basis.  Mario Monti , the unelected premier who took over after
Silvio Berlusconi’s resignation in November, has pushed through
20 billion euros ($26 billion) in spending cuts and tax
increases in a bid to eliminate the budget gap. The austerity
measures tipped  Italy  into a recession in the fourth quarter and
Monti was forced last month to push back the government’s goal
to balance the budget by one year to 2014.  “Recovery is becoming more distant as domestic demand
declines more than forecast and the exports lost momentum
compared with few months ago,” employers’ lobby Confindustria
said in an-emailed statement. Industrial output declined 0.6
percent in April, while gross domestic product dropped 1 percent
in the first quarter and “may fall” even more in the three
months through June, the group estimated.  ‘Relatively Good’  Monti’s government lowered its forecasts for the euro-
region’s third-biggest economy on April 18, saying it will
contract 1.2 percent this year. The Rome-based Treasury forecast
that the jobless rate, at an almost 12-year high of 9.8 percent,
won’t start declining until 2013.  The March output “increase is relatively good news for the
Italian manufacturing sector,” Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income
analyst at Newedge Strategy in  London , said in an e-mailed
statement.  Fiat SpA (F) , Italy’s biggest manufacturer, posted a wider
first-quarter loss in  Europe  as the automaker’s sales in the
region plunged. Fiat, which shut down a factory in Sicily at the
end of last year, froze new investment in Europe and postponed
the introduction of new models, saying it doesn’t anticipate a
recovery in demand until at least next year.  Italy risks an economic and social upheaval over rising
unemployment, Development Minister  Corrado Passera  said at a
conference in Rome today. Official data don’t fully reflect the
nation’s “widespread” social problems, Passera said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  