-- Lithuanian Central Bank Raises GDP-Growth, Inflation Forecasts
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-05-10T09:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/lithuanian-central-bank-raises-gdp-growth-inflation-forecasts.html
Lithuania ’s  economy  will expand more
than previously estimated as the labor market improves and
domestic demand strengthens, the central bank said.  Gross domestic product will probably rise 3 percent this
year, compared with a February estimate of 2.2 percent, the
Vilnius-based  Lietuvos Bankas  said in an e-mailed statement
today. Growth may accelerate to 3.5 percent in 2013, compared
with a previous forecast of 3.3 percent, it said.  The Baltic nation’s economy advanced at a faster rate than
expected in the first quarter, expanding a preliminary 3.9
percent, prompting banks including  SEB Bank AB (SEBA)  to revise the
country’s growth forecasts higher. Slowing unemployment and
strengthening  consumer confidence  is helping boost domestic
demand.  “Domestic demand, in particular, private consumption
expenditure, is rising more than anticipated,” the central bank
said. “Although the world economic outlook is still surrounded
by uncertainty, the outlook for Lithuania is now viewed more
favorably, mostly owing to stronger-than-expected recent
growth.”  The yield on Lithuania’s dollar bond due 2022 fell 0.03
percentage point today to 4.98 percent.  SEB, Lithuania’s largest bank by assets, revised its
economic-growth forecast for Lithuania to 3 percent on May 8,
while the  Finance Ministry  kept its estimate unchanged at 2.5
percent on April 3.  Industrial output rose 3.8 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, after a 2.5 percent contraction in the
final three months on 2011. Retail sales increased an average 8
percent in the first quarter from the same period last year.  The central bank also raised the  inflation rate  forecast
for this year to 2.9 percent from a previous 2.1 percent and
revised 2013 estimate to 2.7 percent from 2.4 percent.  Consumer-price growth slowed to 3.2 percent in April the
lowest rate in 14 months, helping shore up domestic consumption
and economic expansion. Lithuania needs price growth to ease to
qualify for planned euro adoption in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  