-- Live Nation, AEG Vie to Run London’s Olympic Stadium
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-05-10T17:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/live-nation-aeg-vie-to-run-london-s-olympic-stadium-post-games.html
Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) , the
world’s largest concert promoter, and billionaire  Philip Anschutz ’s entertainment company will compete to operate
 London ’s Olympic Stadium after the games end in August.  Executives at Live Nation, based in  Beverly Hills ,
 California , and Los Angeles-based Anschutz Entertainment Group
said separately in interviews yesterday they will offer to
manage the 80,000-seat venue, which will host the opening and
closing Olympic ceremonies.  The arena is the U.K.’s third-largest, behind Wembley
Stadium and Twickenham Stadium. Live Nation, which operates 200
venues, would fill it with concerts and other events, Chief
Executive Officer Michael Rapino said yesterday in a telephone
interview. He said the company’s interest will depend on price.  “It’s a prestigious stadium,” Rapino said. “We will make
a competitive offer. If we can secure it, we will.”  The Olympic Games start on July 27 and run through Aug. 12.
AEG, which operates the O2 Arena in London, has held discussions
with the committee running the arena about the process of
bidding for the management rights,  Rod O’Connor , executive vice
president of AEG Facilities in  Europe , said yesterday in an
interview.  The closely held company, which is proposing to build a $1
billion stadium to host a National Football League team in  Los
Angeles , would benefit from economies of scale and other
efficiencies by operating both London venues, O’Connor said.  ‘Iconic Venue’  “The Olympic stadium is an iconic venue and we are excited
about the opportunity to manage that venue after the Olympics,”
O’Connor said.  The U.K. government started seeking an operator for the 537
million pound ($865 million) stadium, the centerpiece of
London’s 2012 games, in October after an agreement to sell the
facility to the soccer team West Ham United Football Club Ltd.
failed because of legal challenges.  West Ham bid to be the main anchor tenant of the venue in
London’s east end, Karen Brady, the club’s chairwoman, said in a
March 23 statement. Essex County Cricket Club submitted an offer
with the University of East London to use the stadium after the
Summer Games, according to a statement.  A spokeswoman for the  London Legacy Development Corp. ,
which is selling and leasing facilities built for the 2012
Olympics, wasn’t immediately available for comment.  Live Nation’s Rapino spoke after the company reported a
wider first-quarter loss because of a higher tax bill. The
shares rose 10 percent to $9.14 at 1:36 p.m. in  New York . Before
today, the stock was unchanged this year.  AEG, which is controlled by Anschutz, 72, the Denver-based
billionaire, jointly bid for the stadium with Premier League
team Tottenham Hotspur in November 2010. AEG operates Staples
Center, the Nokia Theatre and the LA Live complex in Los
Angeles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  