-- Live Nation Ticketmaster Resumes Linking to Reseller Site
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-05-10T22:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/live-nation-ticketmaster-resumes-redirecting-to-reseller.html
Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) ’s
Ticketmaster unit resumed sending customers seeking seats at
sold-out events to the company’s resale website, a practice that
drew scrutiny from U.S. regulators and  Bruce Springsteen .  Ticketmaster will be “100 percent transparent” when
directing customers to TicketsNow, a website where users buy and
sell tickets, Live Nation Chief Executive Officer Michael Rapino
said yesterday in an interview. The company agreed to stop
linking and limit advertising for TicketsNow in a 2009
settlement with the New Jersey Attorney General’s office and
issued refunds as part of a February 2010 settlement with the
Federal Trade Commission.  The new Ticketmaster system for linking to TicketsNow
complies with FTC requirements, Live Nation said in an e-mailed
statement. The FTC doesn’t issue approvals, the company said.  The system, under development more than a year, makes it
clear TicketsNow is a separate website, Rapino said in the
interview.  “We make it absolutely transparently clear that when you
go to buy a ticket at Ticketmaster and the event is sold out,
that there may be other alternatives,” Rapino said.  Ticketmaster is required to alert consumers when they leave
the website for TicketsNow and must inform customers that
TicketsNow is a resale website where ticket prices may be higher
than face value, the FTC said in an e-mailed statement.  Secondary Market  Through April, secondary ticket volume is up more than 10
percent from a year-earlier, Rapino said on a conference call
yesterday after reporting first-quarter results. Madison Square
Garden, Barclays Center in  Brooklyn ,  New York , and the  National
Football League  signed agreements making or renewing TicketsNow
as the official secondary ticket partner, he said.  The company is talking with musicians, venues and sports
teams about allowing Ticketmaster to link to TicketsNow when
tickets aren’t available, Rapino said.  “Our secondary business continues to be a growth driver,”
Rapino said. “We had great success in the first quarter.”  Ticketmaster angered Springsteen and fans in February 2009
by steering buyers to TicketsNow, where prices were as much as
four times higher than face value.  In February 2010, a month after regulators approved Live
Nation’s acquisition of the company, Ticketmaster issued refunds
in a settlement with the FTC over the practice, which
Springsteen called “scalping.”  The ticket resale business, dominated by  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s
StubHub, is a big opportunity for Ticketmaster, Richard Tullo,
an analyst with Albert Fried & Co. in New York, wrote in an e-
mail after Live Nation reported first-quarter results.  “Ticketing growth was very strong,” Tullo said. “The
secondary business is starting to take off and I expect better
results in 2013.”  Live Nation, based in  Beverly Hills ,  California , reported a
wider first-quarter loss because of a higher tax bill. The
 shares  rose 8.9 percent to $9.05 today in New York. This year,
the stock has climbed 8.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  