-- Ivy League Athletic Directors Reject Basketball Tournament Plan
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-05-10T19:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/ivy-league-athletic-directors-reject-basketball-tournament-plan.html
Ivy League  athletic directors
rejected a plan to create two-round basketball tournaments that
would determine who fills the league’s automatic spots in the
national men’s and women’s postseason championships, the league
said.  The playoff, proposed by the  Ivy League  coaches last month,
would have matched the  four highest  regular-season finishers.
Instead, the league will keep its current system, where the team
with the best conference record is awarded the Ivy title and
represents the league in the National Collegiate Athletic
Association postseason tournament.  “After careful consideration of these proposals, the
athletics directors decided that our current method of
determining the Ivy League Champion and our automatic bid
recipient to the NCAA Championship is the best model moving
forward,” Ivy League Executive Director Robin Harris said in a
statement.  The officials discussed the plan at their annual meeting,
which concluded today in Red Bank, New Jersey.  The Ivy League is the only conference in the top level of
the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  that doesn’t have
postseason basketball tournaments.  Harvard University won the Ivy men’s title last season and
was eliminated in the NCAA tournament’s round of 64 by
Vanderbilt University in the Crimson’s first appearance in the
event since 1946. Princeton University won its third consecutive
Ivy women’s title and lost in the opening round of the national
event to Kansas State.  Thirty-Three Sports  The Ivy League sponsors 33 varsity sports, with lacrosse,
baseball and softball the only team competitions that have
postseason tournaments to determine champions, Rodgers said.  The Ivy League is an association of eight elite, Northeast
U.S. schools that have high academic standards and don’t provide
athletic scholarships. They are Harvard in Cambridge,
Massachusetts; Princeton in Princeton,  New Jersey ; Brown
University in Providence, Rhode Island;  Columbia University  in
 New York  City; Cornell University in Ithaca, New York; Dartmouth
College in Hanover, New Hampshire; the University of
Pennsylvania in Philadelphia; and  Yale University  in New Haven,
Connecticut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  