-- Japan Reports Current-Account Surplus for Second Month
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-05-10T01:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/japan-reports-current-account-surplus-for-second-month-1-.html
Japan  posted a  current-account
surplus  for a second month in March on an increase in overseas
investment income, even as higher energy demand boosted imports.  The excess in the widest measure of the nation’s trade was
1.59 trillion yen ($20 billion), the Ministry of Finance said in
Tokyo today. The  median estimate  of 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a surplus of 1.43 trillion yen.  Evidence of a sustained surplus may ease concern that Japan
is at immediate risk of needing overseas funding to service the
world’s biggest public debt burden. Income from investment
abroad is aiding the nation even as the import bill swells
because of increased energy imports after nuclear reactors were
shut down because of last year’s crisis at the Fukushima plant.  “The surplus has been shrinking at a slower pace than I
expected because gains in the income surplus have been quite
strong,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities
Japan Ltd. in Tokyo and a former central bank official. “But in
the late 2010s when a current-account deficit will be in sight,
the problem of funding government debt will become an issue.”  The yen traded at 79.69 per dollar as of 10:32 a.m. in
Tokyo. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid below 9,000 for the
first time in three months on concern about  Greece ’s debt woes.  Annual Plunge  Japan reported a record current-account deficit in January.
Today’s report showed that the surplus for March was 8.6 percent
smaller than a year earlier. For the fiscal year ended March,
the surplus shrank 52.6 percent from a year earlier, the biggest
drop since comparable data were made available in 1986,
according to the ministry.  Japan shut its last operating reactor last weekend, leaving
the country without atomic power for the first time in more than
four decades. Japan’s nuclear reactors provided 30 percent of
its electricity prior to March 11, 2011.  The government has taken control of  Tokyo Electric Power
Co. (9501) , the company at the center of the Fukushima nuclear accident
that forced about 160,000 people to evacuate from towns around
the plant.  Japan’s income surplus, the portion of the current account
that includes earnings from overseas investment, is a buffer
against the nation slipping into continued deficits. The income
surplus tends to be higher in February and March due to interest
and dividend payments repatriated before the end of the
financial year on March 31.  The nation also posted a services surplus as visitors from
overseas rose compared to the same month a year earlier, when
the record quake and tsunami discouraged tourists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  