-- JPMorgan Loses $2 Billion in Chief Investment Office
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-05-10T21:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/jpmorgan-chase-says-cio-unit-suffered-significant-loss.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the firm lost about $2 billion on 
synthetic credit securities after an “egregious’” failure in its 
chief investment office, which the bank says focuses on hedging.  “This portfolio has proven to be riskier, more volatile
and less effective as an economic hedge than the firm previously
believed,” the New York-based company said today in a quarterly
securities filing. JPMorgan declined 5.5 percent to $38.50 in
extended trading at 5:55 p.m. in New York.  The chief investment office has been transformed in recent
years under Dimon into a unit that makes bigger and riskier
speculative bets with the bank’s money, according to five former
employees, Bloomberg News reported April 13. Some bets were so
big that JPMorgan probably couldn’t unwind them without losing
money or roiling financial markets, the former executives said.  Bloomberg News first reported April 5 that London-based
trader Bruno Iksil had amassed positions linked to the financial
health of corporations that were so large he was driving price
moves in the $10 trillion market.  After the Bloomberg report, Dimon on a conference call said
the news coverage was “a complete tempest in a teapot.”  The losses disclosed today were “a little bit to do with
the article in the press,” Dimon said, without specifying who
in the bank oversaw the trades. “I also think we acted a little
bit too defensively” to the reports.  ‘Flawed, Complex’  Synthetic credit products are derivatives that generate
gains and losses tied to credit performance without the owner
buying or selling actual debt. The losses occurred as the
company sought to unwind a portfolio of the instruments used to
hedge JPMorgan’s credit exposure.  “In hindsight, the new strategy was flawed, complex,
poorly reviewed, poorly executed and poorly monitored,” Dimon
said.  JPMorgan said the losses were partly offset by gains from
the sales from its available-for-sale credit portfolio,
resulting in a net loss for the firm’s corporate division, which
includes the CIO, of about $800 million after taxes. The losses
could widen or narrow during the rest of the quarter, Dimon
said.  The bank is “repositioning” the synthetic credit
portfolio, and the CIO “may hold certain of its current
synthetic credit positions for the longer term,” the firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  