-- U.S. Bankruptcy Courts’ Powers Clarified by Federal Judge
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/judge-rakoff-clarifies-limited-powers-of-u-s-bankrupty-courts.html
Bankruptcy judges don’t have power to
make final rulings on claims for fraudulent transfers and unjust
enrichment, a federal judge said, citing a U.S. Supreme Court
ruling in the Anna Nicole Smith case.  U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff in  Manhattan  issued the
ruling yesterday in a case involving the Refco litigation trust.
His law clerk sent the decision to lawyers for the liquidator of
Bernard L. Madoff’s brokerage and defendants in related
lawsuits, according to an e-mail obtained by Bloomberg.
Bankruptcy judges can issue reports and recommendations to
district judges, Rakoff said in the Refco opinion.  In their requests to have cases moved from  bankruptcy court 
to district court, some Madoff defendants have cited the Smith
case, which stopped the former Playboy model’s heirs from
collecting millions of dollars from Texas billionaire J. Howard
Marshall’s estate and put district judges in control of more
bankruptcy issues.  Rakoff, who let the  New York  Mets owners move their dispute
with the Madoff liquidator to his court, received more than 400
requests during the week ended April 2 from companies sued by
the trustee,  Irving Picard . Those seeking to move cases included
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Merrill Lynch, as well as
former spouses of Madoff’s sons.  The transfer of cases has undercut U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Burton Lifland’s power to reverse some fraudulent transfers and
limited Picard’s ability to collect money to pay victims of
Madoff’s $52 billion Ponzi scheme, the largest in U.S. history.
This month, Rakoff sent 84 lawsuits against investors back to
bankruptcy court, limiting the trustee to trying to take back
two years of fake Ponzi profits rather than six years of payouts
from the scheme.  Mets Settlement  In the Mets case, the parties settled after Rakoff made
principal harder for Picard to take back and limited the
recoverable profits, cutting the trustee’s permitted demands by
almost two-thirds to $386 million from $1 billion.  Rakoff, with U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon , has
thrown out $90 billion of Picard’s claims against banks. Picard,
who has charged about $270 million for his firm’s Madoff work,
is appealing rulings related to about $30 billion of the claims.
Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence.  The Mets case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 