-- KBC Net Tops Estimates on Insurance Gains, Loan Provisions
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-05-10T11:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/kbc-profit-tops-estimates-on-gains-loan-losses-shares-jump.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,  Belgium ’s biggest bank
and insurer by market value, reported a smaller-than-estimated
drop in profit on capital gains in the Belgian insurance unit
and lower loan losses in all regions except Ireland.  First-quarter  net income  declined to 380 million euros
($492 million) from 821 million euros a year earlier, the
Brussels-based company said today in a statement. That beat the
264 million-euro average of 11 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares climbed as much as 15 percent in Brussels
 trading , the most in five months.  KBC didn’t unveil plans to reimburse more state aid this
year after the bank agreed to repay 4.67 billion euros, net of
penalty payments, by December 2013. KBC, which is still waiting
for the Belgian central bank to set stricter capital rules under
Basel III, has until the end of this year to repay a remaining 3
billion euros of federal government funds before the penalty
rate increases to 20 percent from 15 percent.  “Results came in better than our and consensus forecast,
explained by markedly lower impairment charges and strong
dealing room activity,”  Albert Ploegh , an analyst at ING Groep
NV in Amsterdam, wrote in a note today. “We expect KBC to
announce a detailed roadmap with the second-quarter results.”  KBC advanced 89 cents, or 6.7 percent, to 14.09 euros by
1:05 p.m. on Euronext Brussels, extending gains so far this year
to 45 percent. That’s the  best performance  among the 48
companies in the Stoxx 600 Banks Index, which lost 0.3 percent
in the same period.  Core Tier 1  Retained earnings and KBC’s unwinding of two collateralized
debt obligations, as well as sales of other asset-backed
securities, boosted its core Tier 1 ratio, a regulatory measure
of a bank’s ability to absorb losses, to 11.4 percent at the end
of March from 10.6 percent in the fourth quarter.  Adding the gains and balance-sheet reductions of  disposals 
pending completion and the planned merger of Kredyt Bank SA with
Banco Santander SA’s Bank Zachodni WBK SA in  Poland , the core
Tier 1 ratio would be 13.6 percent.  Profit for common stockholders, after accounting for
interest due on government rescue funds, fell to 71 cents a
share from 1.98 euros a share a year earlier.  Shareholders’
equity , which includes 6.5 billion euros of state aid, increased
to 32.20 euros a share from 28.70 euros at the end of last year.  Own Debt  An accounting charge stemming from a rule that requires
banks to book a loss if the price of their own debt rises cut
first-quarter profit by 340 million euros. Narrowing credit
spreads led to a 189 million-euro revaluation of CDOs.  Profit from the insurance business in Belgium jumped 21
percent to 128 million euros and included 34 million euros of
 capital gains . The insurance business accounted for almost half
of the Belgian unit’s profit in the quarter. Trading revenue
from the Brussels dealing room climbed to 160 million euros from
122 million euros a year earlier, Chief Financial Officer Luc Popelier told reporters on a call today.  Net interest income, KBC’s biggest source of revenue, fell
12 percent to 1.21 billion euros in the quarter. Adjusting for
the divestments of Fidea NV and KBL European Private Bankers SA,
the drop was 4.3 percent as the difference between what the bank
pays for funds and what it charges for loans narrowed two basis
points to 1.93 percent.  Spanish Bonds  KBC’s net interest margin shrank the most in its eastern
European business unit after customers of its Hungarian bank
unit K&H repaid 636 million euros worth of foreign-exchange
loans, which carried higher margins on average. KBC also
continues to reduce investments in higher-yielding bonds in
southern  Europe  and sold an additional 1.6 billion euros of
Spanish government bonds in April at a loss of 34 million euros
after tax.  The bank set aside 261 million euros to cover loan losses
in the quarter, most of which in Ireland, where it gave its
banking unit an additional 75 million euros of capital to keep
the Tier 1 ratio at more than 11 percent.  The loan-loss provisions in the quarter were smaller than
the 335 million-euro average of nine analyst estimates compiled
by the company and compare with a quarterly average of 333
million euros last year.  The first-quarter loan-loss ratio of 0.66 percent “will
not be sustainable,” Popelier said on a conference call with
analysts today. “We still believe that we have an advantage
now, an advantage in the first quarter.” The loan-loss ratio
was 0.82 percent last year.  Ireland, LTRO  KBC Bank Ireland Plc took an additional 400 million euros
of three-year loans from the  European Central Bank  in March to
replace loans from its parent. It already took 3.2 billion euros
in the first such operation at the end of December.  The Irish banking unit would have taken more in March
should it have had more eligible collateral available at the
time, KBC Chief Executive Officer Johan Thijs said on the call.  KBC also spent 1.3 billion euros of the total 8.67 billion
euros in so-called LTRO-loans it took to buy more Belgian
 government bonds , Popelier said on the call. KBC holds more than
23 billion euros of Belgian bonds, making it the biggest owner
of the country’s debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  