-- Poulter, Laird Lead Players Golf by One; Woods Trails by Nine
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-05-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/kevin-na-leads-players-championship-golf-as-woods-trails-by-five.html
Ian Poulter  and  Martin Laird  hold a
one-shot lead over Blake Adams going into today’s second round
of the  U.S. PGA Tour ’s Players championship, where Tiger Woods
trails by nine strokes.  England’s Poulter, whose only  PGA Tour  victory came at the
2010 World Golf Championship match-play event, had eight birdies
and one bogey in a 7-under-par 65 at the TPC Sawgrass in Ponte
Vedra Beach,  Florida , yesterday. Laird, a Scot with two wins in
the U.S., had a bogey-free start to the tournament.  “That’s definitely probably in the top 10 of the rounds of
golf I’ve ever played,” Poulter told reporters.  Adams, who missed the cut in his only prior visit to the
tournament a year ago, finished with a 66, one shot ahead of
Kevin Na and Ben Crane.  Phil Mickelson , who was inducted into
the World Golf Hall of Fame on May 7, is 1-under par.  Woods, who missed the two-round cut at last week’s Wells
Fargo Championship for the second straight year, finished with a
2-over 74.  Woods began yesterday at the 10th hole and had three bogeys
and two birdies in the opening half of his round. He then
birdied the second hole in between bogeys on the first and third
before finishing with six straight pars. Woods, a 14-time major
tournament winner, withdrew from the Players each of the past
two years.  “It wasn’t certainly the most positive start,” Woods told
reporters. “Any kind of momentum that I would build, I would
shoot myself in the foot on the very next hole. Just one of
those days.”  The tournament’s 2001 winner, Woods played in a group with
fellow Americans  Rickie Fowler , who won the Wells Fargo title
for his first career PGA Tour victory, and  Hunter Mahan . Fowler
is even par, while Mahan is tied with Woods at 2-over.  The Players is golf’s richest tournament with a $9.5
million purse. The winner will receive $1.71 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  