-- King Seen Signalling QE an Option as Euro Tensions Flare
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-05-11T07:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/king-seen-signalling-qe-an-option-as-euro-tensions-flare.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
may leave the door open to add more stimulus as a flare-up in
 Europe ’s debt crisis and government spending cuts threaten to
keep Britain’s recovery at bay, according to economists at
Deutsche Bank AG and BNP Paribas SA.  King will next week lower U.K. growth forecasts in the
central bank’s Inflation Report, they said, leaving policy
makers leeway to restart so-called  quantitative easing  again if
needed. Officials halted it yesterday, pushing up the pound and
sending bonds lower.  The Monetary Policy Committee held fire on more bond
purchases as concern among some officials about  inflation 
mounts. Signaling that QE is off the table on May 16 could
further boost the pound, adding to pressure on the U.K. economy,
while the Bank of England may also favor keeping the door open
as tensions in Europe’s debt crisis increase.  “They’ll have no choice but to revise down their growth
projections,” said  George Buckley , an economist at Deutsche
Bank in London. “They have a dilemma of high inflation and very
weak growth, but you definitely can’t rule more QE out.”  Other central banks are also trying to steer a path between
inflation and growth. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  last week left open the option of further stimulus if the
euro-area economy continues to deteriorate, pointing to new
forecasts next month that may change the policy stance.  Norway ’s central bank left its  key rate  unchanged at the
lowest in two years yesterday, favoring curbing krone gains to
protect the economy over tackling an overheated property market.  Pound Gains  Unlike the last time the bank halted quantitative easing in
February 2010, the central bank didn’t issue a statement
yesterday. Buckley at Deutsche Bank said that could indicate a
split on the MPC. While  David Miles  was the only member to vote
for more stimulus in April,  Martin Weale  has since said that
data showing the U.K. slipped back into recession strengthened
the argument for more QE.  Indications from the Bank of England that more QE is
possible may help cap gains by the pound and protect export
competitiveness. Sterling has gained 4 percent against the
dollar this year and is up against all 16 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. It strengthened against the U.S. currency after
yesterday’s central bank announcement, while gilts fell, pushing
the 10-year yield up the most in almost eight weeks.  “The U.K. needs a low pound to support exports,” said
 Michael Saunders , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in  London . “If
the MPC acquiesces in a rising pound, prospects for U.K. growth,
which already are pretty poor in our view, will likely worsen.”  Confidence Falls  The pound weakened against the dollar and the euro today
after reports showed U.K. house prices fell in April and
 consumer confidence  dropped. It slipped 0.2 percent to $1.6111
as of 8:04 a.m. in London.  Britain’s recovery remains at risk as Prime Minister  David Cameron  pushes on with budget cuts to reduce the deficit and
unemployment near a 16-year high damps consumer spending.
 Nationwide Building Society ’s index of consumer confidence fell
in April, leaving the gauge more than 30 points below its
average over the last decade.  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research said
yesterday that the economy remains “weak” and the recovery
won’t take hold until 2013. Renewed tensions in the euro area,
where a Greek political stalemate has raised concerns the
country may leave the bloc, may add to headwinds.  ‘Dovish Assessment’  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas in London, said
the Inflation Report will present a “fairly dovish assessment”
of the economy. Saunders said that unless the MPC “genuinely
believes the EMU crisis is about to fade and the U.K. economy is
poised to leap into a strong recovery,” it will use the report
to signal that the door to further QE “remains open.”  Still, inflation concerns are mounting, with price growth
accelerating to 3.5 percent in March, compared with the central
bank’s 2 percent goal. Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said April 18
that the “uncomfortably above target” rate could hold above 3
percent into the second half of the year, while minutes of the
MPC’s April meeting said there was a risk that inflation may
“fall less rapidly” than projected.  “For the moment inflation is the main problem,” said
 Vicky Redwood , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London.
“But more sluggish economic data over next few months should
convince the central bank the robust pickup they expect isn’t
happening.”  Reports last week indicated manufacturing and  services 
weakened in April after the economy shrank 0.2 percent in the
first quarter. Redwood forecasts 50 billion pounds of asset
purchases in August and a further 50 billion pounds in November.
 Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank AG in London, agrees
that poor economic growth data and a worsening of the euro-area
crisis may spark a fresh round of stimulus.  “The door is still open, without the shadow of a doubt,”
he said. “On balance, growth is the bigger problem, and strains
in the market could get an awful lot worse before they get
better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  