-- New York Fed Sells AIG Rescue CDO Debt to Bank of America
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-05-10T20:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/new-york-fed-sells-aig-rescue-cdo-debt-to-bank-of-america.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
said it sold parts of two collateralized debt obligations to
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , giving the lender at least a temporary
stake in some of the funds that objected to its proposed $8.5
billion home-loan bond settlement.  Winning bids that were “materially higher” than the
prices the Fed paid “demonstrate continued interest in these
assets and represent good value for the public,” William C. Dudley, president of the New York Fed, said in a statement on
its website.  The district bank said May 4 it was inviting nine broker-
dealers to compete for the so-called Triaxx CDOs that are backed
by residential-mortgage notes and held within its Maiden Lane
III LLC portfolio, which acquired the securities in the 2008
government rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  It said
it had received unsolicited bids for the assets.  The New York Fed has been selling debt acquired in the AIG
bailout in response to demand this year, using brokers as
intermediaries. It halted a series of 2011 auctions in June
after they were blamed for roiling credit markets. Barclays Plc
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  teamed up last month to buy $7.5 billion of
CDOs tied to commercial mortgages. The banks broke apart the
transactions, selling the underlying bonds to investors.  ‘Elevated Demand’  “While the feasibility of collapsing” the Triaxx CDOs
“for restructuring purposes remains to be seen, we expect there
should be healthy demand” from investors, Bank of America
analysts led by  Chris Flanagan  wrote in a May 4 report. “The
non-solicited bids” for the debt showed the “elevated demand
for high quality paper that provides yield in the current zero
interest-rate environment.”  The Fed sold $19.2 billion of home-loan bonds to Credit
Suisse Group AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in January and
February, helping unwind its separate Maiden Lane II LLC vehicle
at a profit of $2.8 billion for taxpayers. Maiden Lane III
acquired CDOs that sliced mainly mortgage-backed securities into
new bonds with varying risks. Maiden Lane II held securities
that packaged individual home loans.  The outstanding balance of Triaxx CDOs in Maiden Lane III
totaled $2.5 billion as of March 31, according to data posted on
the New York Fed’s website. John Yiannacopoulos, a spokesman for
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to
comment.  Faulty Bonds  In August, three Triaxx CDOs, including the two whose parts
the Fed sold today, joined investors including AIG trying to
intervene in a court case seeking approval for Bank of America’s
proposed $8.5 billion  settlement  over faulty mortgage bonds
created by Countrywide Financial Corp. The bank bought the
lender in 2008.  The CDOs, represented by lawyers from Miller & Wrubel PC,
said in a filing that “many observers” believe the amount was
too small, and they held $2.2 billion in affected securities.  The New York Fed’s three Maiden Lane vehicles were part of
the group of 22 bondholders including BlackRock Inc. and  MetLife
Inc. (MET)  that negotiated the agreement, which is still before a
state judge.  The more mortgage repurchases forced by lenders’ flawed
underwriting, the better for the Triaxx CDOs, because the
“putbacks” reduce losses on bonds they hold, said Manal Mehta,
a partner in  San Francisco  at hedge fund Branch Hill Capital,
which has bet against Bank of America.  ‘Taxpayer Bailout’  Some of the risk held in CDOs insured by AIG was created
through credit-default swaps duplicating actual securities,
sometimes several times, according to Mehta. “If every dollar
of putbacks is successful, would AIG have required as big of a
taxpayer bailout?”  The Triaxx deals differ from most of the CDOs insured by
AIG and later taken over by the Fed by containing more higher-
quality securities backed by so-called prime jumbo mortgages,
rather than riskier subprime debt.  About 35 percent of the collateral of one of the Triaxx
CDOs is jumbo bonds and 30 percent of the other, with the rest
mainly tied to so-called Alt-A loans, according to the Bank of
America report. Countrywide services 34 percent of the
underlying loans and Bank of America about 4 percent, according
to the report.  Jumbo loans are larger than allowed in government-supported
programs, currently as much as $729,750 for Federal Housing
Administration debt for single-family properties in some areas.
Alt-A mortgages fall between prime and subprime in terms of
expected defaults.  AIG  shares  rose 1 percent to $32.14 as of 4:15 p.m. in  New
York  trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  