-- News Corp. Shares Rise After Profit Tops Estimates
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-05-10T20:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/news-corp-shares-rise-after-profit-tops-estimates.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , the media company run by
 Rupert Murdoch , gained the most in five months after revenue
growth at its cable networks and film studio helped it exceed
analysts’ third-quarter profit estimates.  Net income rose 47 percent to $937 million, even as a U.K.
hacking scandal increased costs, New York-based News Corp. said
yesterday. Excluding some items, profit of 37 cents beat the 31-
cent average of analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The
company also doubled its stock-buyback program to $10 billion.  News Corp., owner of Fox Broadcasting and  Fox News , derives
at least 70 percent of its annual profit from television, and is
working to expand in markets outside the U.S. with investments
in pay-TV operators. While ratings were weak in the quarter,
News Corp.’s cable networks posted gains in ad sales and fees
from pay-TV operators, said  David Bank , an analyst with  RBC
Capital Markets .  “Operations are generally accelerating with the exception
of the newspaper business, which is the only troubling part,”
Bank said in an interview after the earnings report.  News Corp. climbed 4.9 percent to $20.32 at the close in
New York. The shares have gained 14 percent this year.  No Plans to Sell  A U.K. committee, after probing whether News Corp. misled
Parliament in the telephone-hacking scandal involving the
company’s journalists, concluded this month that Murdoch is
“not a fit person to exercise the stewardship of a major
international company.” Now the media regulator Ofcom may force
News Corp. to sell or cut its 40 percent stake in  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   “We don’t have any expectations to sell down part of Sky
at this time,” Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey  said on a
call with analysts after the earnings report.  Revenue rose 1.8 percent to $8.4 billion in the quarter,
which ended March 31. Analysts on average had estimated $8.25
billion. Sales at News Corp.’s cable networks, which include FX
and Fox News, climbed 16 percent to $2.38 billion.  Revenue at News Corp.’s publishing unit, which includes the
Wall Street Journal in the U.S. and the Sun in the U.K.,
declined 2.8 percent to $2.03 billion.  ‘Blind Eye’  Murdoch, 81, controls about 40 percent of News Corp.’s
voting shares. The chief executive officer “turned a blind eye
and exhibited willful blindness to what was going on in his
companies and publications,” according to a May 1  parliamentary
report .  Coping with the scandal’s fallout has cost News Corp. about
$258 million since it broke in July. That includes $151.4
million in legal fees, with $63 million from the most recent
quarter; $15.6 million in settlements; and $91 million from
closing the News of the World newspaper.  The company adopted a $5 billion buyback plan in the wake
of the scandal and doubled the size of the program today.  The repurchases have helped bolster the stock. The Class A
shares have increased 7.3 percent since the Guardian reported on
July 4 that a News Corp. newspaper accessed the voice mail of a
murdered teenager, Milly Dowler.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  