-- TNK-BP Quarterly Net Drops 17% on Lost Tax Break, New Fields
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-05-10T16:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/tnk-bp-quarterly-net-drops-17-on-lost-tax-break-new-fields-1-.html
TNK-BP International Ltd., the
Russian oil venture owned by  BP Plc (BP/)  and a group of billionaires,
said first-quarter profit fell 17 percent as taxes and costs
rose amid production gains at new fields.  Net income dropped to $2.18 billion from $2.62 billion a
year earlier, Moscow-based TNK-BP said today in a statement. The
loss of tax breaks at the Verkhnechonsk oil field in eastern
Siberia in May last year, higher costs and unrepeated items cut
into profit, Chief Financial Officer  Jonathan Muir  said.  Russian oil producers face declining profit in the first
quarter amid higher export duties while seeking to stem declines
at traditional fields. OAO Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil
producer, reported a 7.4 percent drop in profit in the period.
The state-run company also lost tax exemptions in May last year,
at its Vankor field.  Revenue rose 16 percent to $16.1 billion, TNK-BP said.
Production climbed to 2.04 million barrels of oil equivalent a
day from 1.96 million barrels in the first quarter of last year,
according to the statement. New projects, which carried higher
costs, contributed 16 percent of total liquids output, compared
with 11 percent a year earlier, TNK-BP said.  International Assets  Increased production was “thanks to highly effective
greenfield operations in Uvat and Verkhnechonsk, as well as
contributions from our international assets,”  Mikhail Fridman ,
TNK-BP chief executive officer and a billionaire shareholder,
said in the statement.  TNK-BP’s shareholders aim to hold a board meeting by the
middle of the year after filling vacancies left when independent
directors  Gerhard Schroeder , the former German Chancellor, and
Corus Group Plc’s ex-Chairman James Leng resigned in December,
Muir told reporters today in Moscow.  Operations haven’t been affected by the inability to gather
the board, and the shareholders have made progress in their
search for board candidates, Muir said.  The directors face taking sides on whether TNK-BP may seek
damages relating to BP’s failed bid to explore the Arctic and
swap shares with Rosneft. The AAR group, which represents the
billionaire shareholders, had challenged BP and Rosneft’s
planned alliance, saying the venture had the right to pursue new
opportunities for the U.K. explorer in  Russia .  Venezuelan Venture  Profit was also hurt by an unrepeated loss of $200 million
in the first quarter, compared with an unrepeated gain of $200
million in the same period last year from the sale of the
Kovykta gas field, according to a company presentation.  The Moscow-based company has discussed the possibility of
offtaking cargoes of crude from Petroleos de Venezuela SA to
compensate for payment arrears at their Petromonagas venture,
Muir said.  TNK-BP estimates it is owed just less than $200 million by
PDVSA, as the Venezuelan state company is known, which has been
selling a portion of the venture’s output on its own, said a
TNK-BP official who declined to be identified, citing company
policy. A spokesman for PDVSA, who cannot be named because of
company policy, said he didn’t have information on the situation
with TNK-BP.  OAO TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) , the traded unit of TNK-BP
International, will close the shareholder register on May 14
before a May 21 board meeting that will consider dividends, Vice
President Gennady Shulenko said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  