-- Norway’s Conservatives Open to Lofoten Oil, Gas Exploration
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-05-10T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/norway-s-conservatives-look-to-lofoten-for-oil-exploration.html
Norwegian opposition leader Erna Solberg, who’s leading in opinion polls ahead of next year’s
election, is willing to open contested areas off the Lofoten and
Vesteraalen islands for oil exploration if elected as head of
the country’s next government.  A Conservative Party-led government would be open to
studying the effects of oil exploration and production on the
areas off the northwest coast of  Norway , the 51-year-old party
leader said yesterday in an interview in Bergen.  “There’s a great consensus on Norwegian oil policy, the
biggest difference is our position on the opening of Lofoten and
Vesteraalen,” she said. “These are very promising areas and it
takes a long time from when you begin until you can start
production.”  Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s largest oil and gas producer, had
lobbied for the areas to be opened up before Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg’s Labor-led government postponed a planned
environmental impact study off the Arctic areas until after the
next parliamentary election, scheduled for September 2013.  The waters off Lofoten and Vesteraalen contain unique cold-
water coral reefs and provide breeding grounds for wildlife
ranging from cod, haddock and halibut to seals and sperm and
killer whales, according to the  World Wildlife Fund . The
archipelago is also home to some of  Europe ’s largest seabird
colonies, the environmental group said.  Moving North  Deposits of oil and gas in the area may contain as much as
3.5 billion barrels of oil, according to industry group
 KonKraft , which represents companies and the LO labor union.
Norway, the seventh-largest oil producer, is moving farther
north in an effort to boost reserves as output from aging  North
Sea  deposits dwindles.  Companies including Statoil,  Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE)  and  Total
SA (FP)  last year made commercial discoveries of oil and gas that are
the biggest in almost 40 years. The Johan Sverdrup find in the
North Sea may hold as much as 3.3 billion barrels of oil
equivalent, while the Skrugard-Havis discovery could contain 600
million barrels of oil equivalent.  “We did find a lot of oil last year,” Solberg said. “The
Norwegian shelf is very attractive. But having a positive
attitude toward developing these areas would help make it even
more attractive.”  While her party doesn’t have any specific plan to offer tax
breaks to the oil industry, “we have a more pragmatic
position” than the current government, Solberg said, without
providing further details.  Solberg’s Conservatives last month overtook Stoltenberg’s
Labor as Norway’s most popular party, according to a  Gallup
opinion poll  for TV2. Some 30 percent of voters backed the
Conservatives, versus 29 percent for Labor, according to a poll
of 950 people from April 26 to May 2. The margin of error was
1.4 percentage points to 2.4 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   bergman@bloomberg.net  