-- Nowotny Says Discussions About Greek Euro Exit Are Premature
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-05-10T09:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/nowotny-says-discussions-about-greek-euro-exit-are-premature.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said any talk about  Greece ’s exit
from the monetary union is premature.  “It’s a premature discussion,” Nowotny told reporters in
Vienna today. “What we have to discuss now is how to solve this
situation. The key for solving this lies with the Greek
government and the political system. We have to see how this is
developing but we don’t have an infinite amount of time. Time
flies.”  Greek lawmakers are struggling to form a government after
parliamentary elections on May 6 didn’t deliver a clear winner.
That’s reignited concerns about the country’s willingness to
meet the terms of its two bailouts and prompted speculation that
Greece may abandon the euro.  Greece must be aware that there’s no alternative to
implementing the reforms it has agreed upon “if it wants to
remain a member of the euro zone,” ECB Executive Board member
Joerg Asmussen said in an interview with German business daily
Handelsblatt on May 8.  Asked whether the ECB has a plan for how to handle a Greek
exit, Nowotny said: “Even if we had one we wouldn’t tell you
about it. This is not a matter, with all due respect, to discuss
in a press conference.”  Growth projections for southern countries in the euro area
might have to be revised down, while the outlook for countries
in the northern and western part of the region, including
 Austria , might be better than currently predicted, Nowotny said.
He declined to comment on the new forecasts the ECB is due to
publish next month.  Nowotny also said the ECB has several tools to absorb
liquidity from financial markets if needed.  “If the need comes we do have an arsenal also to be active
on the restrictive side,” Nowotny said. “But it’s important to
say that now is not the time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Vienna at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  