-- NRC Reviews Allegations in Texas After Markey Seeks Probe
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-05-10T17:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/nrc-reviews-allegations-in-texas-after-markey-seeks-probe.html
The  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  is
reviewing allegations of retaliation against agency staff who
raised safety concerns about a Nebraska power plant, which
prompted a U.S. lawmaker to demand an investigation.  Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat,
asked the agency for information after receiving a letter from
NRC staff in Arlington,  Texas , who said the work environment
under a deputy director discouraged enforcement actions.  NRC “is reviewing the issues” raised by Markey, Scott Burnell, a spokesman for the agency, said today in an e-mail.  Employees on NRC’s Texas staff, writing anonymously, said
Troy Pruett, deputy director of the Division of Reactor Projects
and former deputy director of the Division of Reactor Safety,
rejected a recommendation to classify failures at  Nebraska ’s
Fort Calhoun Station as “high safety significance,” saying his
job would become more difficult, according to the April 24
letter released by Markey.  Pruett didn’t return a telephone call today to his office
line.  “Too often those who report serious safety violations end
up risking their jobs, and unfortunately in this case, possibly
the well-being of Americans living near nuclear  power plants ,”
Markey said yesterday in an e-mail. “If these allegations prove
to be true, it will be an appalling indictment of a culture of
open disregard for safety recommendations of NRC’s technical
staff and a disempowerment of staff to come forward when safety
issues arise.”  Markey said the issue calls for an independent
investigation, and “all necessary actions” to resolve the
matter if the allegations prove true, he said.  The agency inspected Fort Calhoun, about 19 miles (31
kilometers) north of Omaha, after a June 2011 electrical breaker
fire triggered a shutdown in the system that cools spent-fuel
pools, according to an April 10 NRC statement. The plant was
shut at the time by flooding along the Missouri River.  Omaha Public Power District runs the plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  