-- O1 Properties Said to Struggle to Draw Orders for London IPO
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-05-10T12:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/o1-properties-said-to-struggle-to-draw-orders-for-london-ipo-1-.html
O1 Properties Plc, a Russian real
estate investment company, is struggling to attract buyers for
its $425 million initial public offering in  London , said three
people with knowledge of the transaction.  The company, which manages office buildings in Moscow, is
offering shares at $11 to $13 each. Underwriters for the sale
are due to finish taking orders at 5 p.m. in London today, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the process is
private. A failure of the sale would make 01 Properties the
first London IPO to be pulled this year.  “The current markets are not particularly good, people are
scared at the moment,” said Alexei Yazikov, head of research at
Aton LLC in Moscow. “They have a pretty good collection of
assets, but it’s also about price: if it’s attractive for
people, they will go for it.”  O1 Properties is seeking to conduct an IPO at a time when
Russia’s Micex Index has tumbled 14 percent since its high this
year in March, as investors drop riskier assets and  Europe ’s
debt crisis intensifies. The U.K. benchmark FTSE 100 Index was
little changed today, after closing yesterday at the lowest
level since December.  At $425 million, O1 Properties’s IPO would be the biggest
from a Russian company since at least October, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  O1 Properties owns and manages a portfolio of eight
completed office buildings in Moscow’s prime business area, it
said in an April 18 statement. Its portfolio was valued at about
$2.1 billion at the end of last year, according to the
statement.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and VTB Capital Plc are joint global
coordinators for the issue, alongside joint bookrunner  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and co-lead manager  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   A representative of O1 Properties declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  