-- Obama Gay-Marriage Embrace Is Campaign Risk-Taking Moment
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-05-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/obama-gay-marriage-embrace-is-campaign-risk-taking-moment.html
President  Barack Obama ’s endorsement
of gay marriage marked a rare moment of risk-taking on the most
divisive civil-rights issue in the nation, changing the dynamics
of his race for re-election.  Obama’s decision to declare his personal belief that same-
sex couples should be allowed to marry thrilled his supporters
at a time when the president needs enthusiastic backing and
campaign cash from his base, even as it stoked outrage among
critics on whom presumptive Republican Party nominee Mitt Romney
is counting to help him unseat the incumbent in November.  It also threatened to erode Obama’s standing in politically
competitive states including  North Carolina  - which voted the
night before his announcement to ban gay marriage - as well as
 Florida ,  Ohio  and  Virginia , homes to amendments defining
marriage as between one man and one woman.  Still, Obama’s decision to tell ABC News that he’d decided
“it is important for me to go ahead and affirm that I think
same-sex couples should be able to get married,” doesn’t change
the outlook for legalizing gay marriage nationally. That would
take the elimination of a federal law that prohibits the
government from recognizing same-sex spouses, and nullification
of constitutional amendments in 38 states that don’t recognize
such unions.  ‘Symbolic Milestone’  “I don’t think it’s a milestone in the actual obtaining of
gay rights -- it’s a symbolic milestone,” said George C.
Edwards III, a specialist in the American presidency at Texas A
& M University in  College Station . “But sometimes, symbolism is
what people are looking for in politics.”  For Obama, it was an unusual instance in which he used the
bully pulpit to take a stand on an issue that deeply divides
Americans. Fifty percent of respondents said in a May 3-6 Gallup
 poll  that same-sex marriages should be recognized as legal, with
48 percent saying they shouldn’t.  The president’s embrace of gay marriage isn’t as momentous
as when President  Lyndon Johnson  pushed through passage of the
Civil Rights Act, fully aware that Southern voters would turn
against his  Democratic Party . At the same time, it is a
noticeable departure from the play-it-safe mode most incumbents
adopt just six months from Election Day.  Heather Cronk, managing director at GetEQUAL, a group
advocating for the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and
transgender people, said Obama’s statement showed “great
courage.”  Keep Up Pressure  “It’s not the only step -- and we will absolutely keep the
pressure on all our elected leaders to take concrete action
toward legal equality for LGBT Americans -- but it’s a
significant day in our nation’s history, and we look forward to
working with the president to make full LGBT equality a
reality,” Cronk said.  Stu Rothenberg, editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg
Political Report in  Washington , said Obama’s statement may not
have a major influence on the campaign.  “There will be a lot of talk, a lot of huffing and puffing
from both sides in the next 48 hours, but the election is still
about jobs and the economy -- not gay marriage,” he said.  That didn’t stop both sides from seizing on the moment and
working it to their advantage.  Religious conservatives, who resisted Romney’s candidacy
during the Republican primary and have yet to coalesce behind
him, said Obama’s move would give the former Massachusetts
governor the intensity from their community he lacks.  Two Happy Camps  “There’s two camps celebrating this today: Those activists
who are advocating for the redefinition of marriage, and the
 Mitt Romney  campaign,” said Tony Perkins, president of the
Family Research Council. “The president just handed Mitt Romney
the missing piece to the picture of enthusiasm for his
campaign.”  Democrats said the president will make gains with important
constituencies he needs to be re-elected, including young
people.  “People against gay marriage weren’t going to vote for the
president anyway, and he gets enormous credit with voters under
40,” said  Steve Elmendorf , a Democratic lobbyist and former
congressional aide. “There are places it will hurt him and
places it will help him. Overall, people want a politician to
say what they believe.”  That’s especially true of gay supporters of Obama who have
been withholding donations for his re-election because of his
stance on same-sex marriage.  Gay Political Donations  Juan Ahonen-Jover, who said he and his partner Ken Ahonen-
Jover had planned to refrain from giving to Obama this year “to
send the president a message” on the issue, said he made a
$10,000 contribution to his re-election campaign -- the maximum
allowed -- within 30 minutes of the president’s televised
statement.  An adviser to some of the top lesbian, gay, bisexual and
transgender donors in the country through his website
eQualitygiving.org, he hand-delivered a letter to Obama at the
president’s first White House Cinco de Mayo party on May 4,
2009, that read: “When you say that you believe marriage is
between a man and a woman, please know that those words feel
like a knife going through our hearts.”  “People like us will donate immediately,” Ahonen-Jover
said yesterday. “This is exactly what we’ve been looking for,
the moral leadership that marriage equality is a right for
everybody.”  Hours after the ABC interview was aired, Obama sent a
letter to his campaign supporters explaining his reasons for
supporting gay marriage. The letter closed with an appeal for
donations.  Key Voting Constituencies  Beyond the immediate impact on the re-election’s campaign
account, polls suggest the gay marriage issue could drive key
voting constituencies.  Independents support same-sex marriage 57 percent to 40
percent, according to the Gallup Poll, putting them closer to
Democrats’ views on the issue than Republicans’. And their
resistance to same-sex marriage is declining quickly, according
to the most recent April 2012  poll  by the Pew Research Center
for the People and the Press. Pew data shows a 7-point drop in
opposition among independents over the last four years and a 15-
point drop over the last eight years.  Romney could benefit with older people, because opposition
to gay marriage tends to increase by age. Just 30 percent of 18-
to-29-year-olds were opposed to gay marriage in the Pew survey,
compared with 56 percent of those over the age of 65.  Driving Catholics  Catholics, already upset over passage of the Affordable
Health Care Act and the White House regulations on providing
abortion coverage to charitable institutions’ employees, also
could move toward the Republican ticket in more numbers.  Cardinal Timothy Dolan, president of the U.S. Conference of
Catholic Bishops, said Obama’s comments “in support of the
redefinition of marriage are deeply saddening.” In a statement,
Dolan said, “The people of this country, especially our
children, deserve better.”  Finally, Republicans said Romney could also get a boost in
politically competitive states. Ralph Reed, chairman of the
Duluth, Georgia-based Faith and Freedom Coalition, called
Obama’s statement “a gift to the Romney campaign” that would
“energize the opposition” to Obama in Florida, Ohio, and
Virginia.  The timing of Obama’s statement was hardly ideal for his
campaign, coming almost immediately on the heels of his official
campaign kickoff May 5. It was prompted largely by an impromptu
declaration by Vice President  Joe Biden  in a television
interview the next day that he was “absolutely comfortable”
with gay marriage.  Supreme Court Action  The issue of same-sex marriage is working its way toward
the  Supreme Court  and may come before the justices in the nine-
month term that starts in October. In February, a federal
appeals court struck down  California ’s Proposition 8, which bans
gay marriage, as unconstitutional.  In a separate line of cases, gay-rights advocates are
challenging the Defense of Marriage Act, which prohibits the
federal government from recognizing same-sex spouses. The Obama
administration said last year it will no longer defend that
statute in court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  