-- Obama Tests New Gay Marriage Stance With Donors, Clooney
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-05-10T20:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/obama-tests-new-gay-marriage-stance-with-donors-george-clooney.html
President  Barack Obama  is testing his
newest appeal to wealthy backers -- his public support for gay
marriage -- at three West Coast fundraisers, including dinner at
the Los Angeles home of movie star  George Clooney .  Tonight’s event featuring Clooney and  Jeffrey Katzenberg ,
chief executive officer of Glendale, California-based  Dreamworks
Animation Skg Inc. (DWA) , was being promoted by Obama backers as the
top fundraising vehicle of the year, bringing in at least $6
million.  The president’s endorsement of same-sex marriage yesterday
will help generate more money, said Eugene Sepulveda, a former
fundraiser for Obama’s campaign.  “We’ve just turbo-charged that enthusiasm for him because
of that statement yesterday,” he said.  The campaign is seeking to parlay the event at Clooney’s
house, with 150 guests paying $40,000 a ticket to attend, into
millions more for the re-election effort. Donors are being urged
to contribute to a pro-Obama super-political action committee,
on which there are no limits for donations, to compete against
super-PACs supporting Republican  Mitt Romney .  Dinner Raffle  Obama’s campaign team also is using Clooney’s star power to
generate money from small donors by raffling off chances to
attend the dinner for $3 apiece.  Clooney told the Wall Street Journal last month that could
raise the take to $10 million. Clooney, through his agent,
declined requests for an interview. Campaign officials declined
yesterday to put a dollar figure on the total draw from
Clooney’s involvement.  “They’re very clever about how they use these things,”
said  Bill Carrick , a California-based Democratic political
consultant. Clooney is “as hot a movie star as exists in the
2012 universe. They turned it into quite an ingenious grassroots
fundraising vehicle.”  The two winners of the raffle, a science teacher from
Manalapan, New Jersey, and a utility company communications
coordinator from  St. Augustine , Florida, and their husbands will
be attending the Clooney dinner along with other Hollywood
celebrities such as Robert Downey Jr.,  Jack Black  and  Barbra Streisand .  Donor Appeal  The Obama campaign also e-mailed an appeal to donors last
night following an interview with ABC News in which he announced
his support of gay marriage, ending years of vacillation and
reversing his earlier opposition.  “I decided it was time to affirm my personal belief that
same-sex couples should be allowed to marry,” said the note,
addressed from Obama, which asks for donations.  Obama made no mention of his switch on same-sex marriage in
the public portion of remarks at the first stop of his day, a
brunch for 70 guests, with tickets at $17,900. It was held at
the Seattle-area home of real estate developer Bruce Blume,
founder and chairman of the Blume Co.  Obama talked about his record, including passage of the
health-care law, setting higher fuel-efficiency standards for
vehicles and initiatives to expand  student loans .  “This country succeeds together, not apart,” Obama said,
telling donors that Republicans have “a very narrow vision” of
the country.  Seattle Fundraiser  Before leaving for  Los Angeles , Obama will attend a second,
larger fundraiser in Seattle that will draw 1,800 guests with
tickets starting at $1,000 and feature musician Dave Matthews.  Money raised will be divided among Obama’s campaign, the
 Democratic National Committee  and state Democratic Party
organizations.  Obama has received $2.1 million from people working in the
entertainment industry, almost three-fourths of all the campaign
contributions from that segment, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group. Romney
has taken in $363,570. The industry is Obama’s ninth-biggest
source of campaign cash, according to the center.  In 2008, Obama received $9.2 million, compared with $3.5
million for Democratic rival  Hillary Clinton  and $1.2 million
for Republican nominee  John McCain .  Obama raised $196.6 million for his re-election and had
$104.1 million in the bank as of March 31, compared with $10.1
million for Romney, who had brought in $88.7 million for his
campaign. Romney has been helped by independent committees
Restore Our Future and American Crossroads, which between them
raised $80 million, compared with $9 million for the pro-Obama
Priorities USA Action.  Obama Fundraisers  Obama’s top fundraisers include Katzenberg and Mai
Lassiter, wife of film producer James Lassiter, who runs a
Hollywood production company with actor  Will Smith  and others.  Both Katzenberg and Lassiter have raised more than $500,000
for Obama’s re-election campaign. Katzenberg contributed $2
million to the pro-Obama super-PAC, Priorities USA Action, and
comedian Bill Maher donated $1 million.  Obama also plans at least two fundraisers with gay rights
activists, the first on May 14 in  New York  featuring pop singer
Ricky Martin. The second is scheduled for June 6 in Los Angeles.  “Every event, including tonight, will be oversold for the
LGBT community and he is going to be feeling an extraordinary
amount of love,” said Sepulveda, who resigned his position as
an Obama fundraiser after becoming president of two National
Public Radio affiliates in Texas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  