-- Obama Gay Marriage Declaration Welcomed by Friends, Foes
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-05-10T04:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/obama-gay-marriage-declaration-welcomed-by-friends-foes.html
In Atlanta’s Ebenezer Baptist Church,
where  Martin Luther King Jr . once preached, Barack Obama’s newly
articulated support for gay marriage had parishioners weighing
religious tradition against a push for a new civil right.  In Byram,  Mississippi , Janis Lane, 64, said the Democratic
president merely disclosed what she and other opponents
suspected he believed all along. In San Francisco, his words
were greeted with champagne.  Interviews across the U.S. yesterday showed complex and
varying views about same-sex marriage, an issue that came to the
fore less than a decade ago and that pits an increasing
acceptance of gays against deep-seated beliefs.  “I don’t think it’s right, because it says in the Bible
that marriage shouldn’t be between a man and a man, or a woman
and a woman,” said Ryan Evans, 34, a Baltimore truck driver
hanging out on a friend’s stoop. “But it’s a new day. So if
they want to do it, let them do it.”  Obama’s comments yesterday in an interview that “I think
same-sex couples should be able to get married” marked the
first time he spoke out in favor of allowing gays to marry. Both
the president’s supporters and opponents praised him for
clarifying his views, providing a clear contrast with Republican
candidate  Mitt Romney , who reaffirmed his opposition.  Against the Current  As a candidate for president in 2008, Obama opposed same-
sex marriage. Since late 2010, he had said his views were
“evolving.” His new stance came a day after North Carolina
voters passed a constitutional amendment against gay marriage
and Republican lawmakers in  Colorado  killed a measure to approve
civil unions, illustrating the political risks in battleground
states.  After decades of increasing visibility and gay activism,
same-sex marriage became a national issue in 2003. That year, a
 Massachusetts  Supreme Court ruling moved the state toward the
practice, leading President  George W. Bush  to call for a
constitutional amendment permitting marriage only between a man
and a woman. In November 2004, as Bush won re-election, voters
approved bans in 11 states.  More than three dozen states now have measures that bar
recognition of gay marriages, according to the  National
Conference of State Legislatures , and such unions aren’t
recognized by the federal government. Obama said he was
expressing his personal view and that its legality was a matter
for states to decide.  Altared States  Massachusetts,  Connecticut ,  Iowa ,  Vermont ,  New Hampshire ,
 New York  and Washington, D.C., issue marriage licenses to same-
sex couples, while Maryland and Washington state have approved
doing so with laws that have yet to take effect.  New York’s same-sex marriage law passed last year, and two
days later,  Manhattan ’s gay-pride parade turned into a rolling
celebration of matrimony. Yesterday, the response to the
president’s news was subdued in Chelsea, a diverse neighborhood
that draws all varieties of  New Yorker  with its restaurants and
nightlife for both straights and gays.  At a Starbucks, Maurice McKnight, 38, a heterosexual iron
worker, said his 9-year-old daughter, Amya, could speak for them
both.  “I think everyone should be allowed to get married,” she
said. “It’s not fair if they can’t have a happy life with
someone they love.”  Polls have shown momentum shifting in support of same-sex
marriage, particularly among the young. A  survey  released last
month by the Pew Research Center showed the public in favor by
47 to 43 percent. In 2004, opponents led supporters 2-to-1.  Passionate Affair  Another finding: Equal numbers hold strong opinions, the
first time that passionate proponents have shown the same
strength as their foes. In 2004, those strongly opposed
outnumbered those strongly in favor by 3-to-1.  Bernadette Smith of Grandville,  Michigan , a state that will
play a key role in this year’s presidential election, said gay
marriage is anathema to the traditional family.  “Our founding fathers had a biblical world view, and so do
I, and so does most of the country,” said Smith, 48, a black
mother of seven who’s married to a pastor of a nondenominational
church. “Homosexuals are going against that world view.”  At Ebenezer Baptist in Atlanta, some coming to the first
night of the Spring Back to Life revival said they were
surprised and disappointed by Obama’s declaration. Carla Jones,
49, said she was glad Obama spoke.  An Acceptance  “Given that my daughter is gay, I think there is a need
for a lot of tolerance,” she said. “If she decided to change
tomorrow I would be happy. But now, she is what she is.”  In  San Francisco , long known for its embrace of tolerance,
community leaders gathered to celebrate with champagne in the
Castro district, the epicenter of the city’s gay life.  In 2004, the city allowed gays to marry, prompting a court
case that eventually allowed same-sex nuptials in  California  for
five months, until a referendum in 2008 took the right away. The
question is before a federal appeals court.  Tony Buckman, a 47-year-old public-health worker from
Berkeley, pointed to his wedding ring and said Obama “evolved
to the right decision.”  “It means a lot to me personally,” Buckman said. “It’s
very validating to have a president who you feel like supports
you as a person and as a human being. And I’m very proud of
Obama.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta  at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  