-- Obama’s Gay Marriage Turnabout Forced Public by Biden
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-10T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/obama-s-gay-marriage-turnabout-forced-public-by-biden.html
At a fundraiser with gay activists in
 New York  last June, the day before state legislators passed a
same-sex marriage law, President  Barack Obama  considered the
choice they were making. He concluded he’d almost certainly have
voted “yes” too.  Conversations with staff, family, friends and supporters
also moved him in that direction. So did religious reflection
and his sense of shifting public sentiment, said administration
officials who insisted on anonymity to describe private
discussions about the president’s change on the issue.  Obama reached a turning point early this year and decided
to publicly back gay marriage, they said. How and when to do it
-- sometime before the Democratic convention in September -- was
a closely held discussion involving only about a half-dozen
aides. At the end of last week, timing was decided for them.  That was when the president’s advisers first read a
transcript of a taped interview Vice President  Joe Biden  gave to
NBC’s “Meet the Press.” In response to a question, Biden said
he was “absolutely comfortable with the fact that men marrying
men, women marrying women, and heterosexual men and women are
entitled to the same exact rights.”  The president’s advisers knew that Biden, though speaking
on his own, would effectively be voicing a new policy when the
interview aired on May 6, according to the officials. That set
off a weekend of discussions among White House and campaign
aides about how best to respond.  ‘Consistent’ Views  On May 7, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  and  David Axelrod , Obama’s chief political strategist, sought to downplay
Biden’s remarks. Both said they were “entirely consistent”
with Obama’s expressed views on equal rights for gays. Carney
refused to say whether Obama supported legality for same-sex
marriage.  “He, as you know, said that his views on this were
‘evolving,’ and I don’t have an update for you on that,” Carney
said.  The president’s gay supporters didn’t accept it. Over the
next 24 hours, Obama and his team decided it was time. On May 8,
before Obama left Washington for a trip to  Albany , New York, to
talk about the economy, it was settled. His communications
office called ABC News to arrange the interview, officials said.  Family Views  In that interview, Obama described having conversations
“over the course of several years” with family, friends and
neighbors. He said he was moved by seeing members of his staff
who are in long-term same-sex relationships and gays serving in
the military who aren’t able to commit themselves in marriage.  “I’ve just concluded that, for me personally, it is
important for me to go ahead and affirm that I think same sex
couples should be able to get married,” Obama told ABC in an
excerpt of the interview broadcast by the network last night.
The full interview is scheduled to air on the “Good Morning
America” program today.  Obama’s shift also involved religious reflection,
conversations with first lady  Michelle Obama  and their
daughters, and an awareness of shifting public and generational
sentiment.  “Malia and Sasha, they have friends whose parents are
same-sex couples,” Obama said referring to his daughters. “It
wouldn’t dawn on them that somehow their friends’ parents would
be treated differently. It doesn’t make sense to them and,
frankly, that’s the kind of thing that prompts a change in
perspective.”  Changing Views  Obama said the first lady “feels the same way that I do.”  According to people familiar with the discussions at the
White House, longtime adviser  Valerie Jarrett  was among those in
the president’s inner circle encouraging him to speak directly
about his beliefs.  When he ran for the  U.S. Senate  in 2004, Obama said that he
believed marriage is between a man and a woman, the same
position now taken by his opponent in the 2012 presidential
race, Republican  Mitt Romney . Obama said that didn’t preclude
civil unions for same-sex couple or equal rights for gays.  He held that position when running for president in 2008.
In office, he promoted policies that advanced the rights of
gays, including repealing the military’s ban on openly gay
service members and giving same-sex partners more equal
treatment in areas such as medical decisions.  Midway through his term, Obama began to shift. At a news
conference on Dec. 22, 2010, Obama talked about gay friends and
the fact that his support for civil unions wasn’t enough from
their perspective.  ‘Constantly Evolving’  “My feelings about this are constantly evolving,” Obama
said. “This is something that we’re going to continue to debate
and I personally am going to continue to wrestle with going
forward.”  With the decision made public, Obama may face electoral
consequences. While opinion polls show Americans increasingly
approve of same-sex marriage, it remains unpopular in several
battleground states as Obama prepares to face voters in
November. North Carolinians this week vote to amend the state
constitution to ban gay marriage, and Republicans in the
Colorado House killed a measure to allow civil unions.  One of the administration officials argued that the impact
of Obama’s declaration will be minimized because many Americans
already assumed Obama backed gay marriage privately.  By casting his stance as a personal opinion, and making
clear he believes marriage is an issue for states to decide and
not the president, advisers said Obama may minimize voter
discomfort.  He may also benefit from the fact that prominent
Republicans have backed gay marriage, including former first
lady  Laura Bush , former Vice President  Dick Cheney  and Ken Mehlman, former president  George W. Bush ’s 2004 campaign
manager.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  