-- Obama Says Rule Rollbacks Will Save $6 Billion in 5 Years
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-05-10T20:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/obama-says-rule-rollbacks-will-save-6-billion-in-5-years.html
U.S. rule changes involving street
signs, train control systems and hospital practices will save
consumers and businesses almost $6 billion in the next five
years, President  Barack Obama ’s administration said.  The savings is a large part of the annual cost of
rulemaking, said Cass Sunstein, administrator of the White House
 Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs , in announcing the
reforms today at an American Bar Association meeting in
Washington.  “That’s a significant chunk of the total costs of
rulemaking in any given year and we have on one day taken away
that cost,” he said.  Republicans have criticized some regulations Obama issued
as too burdensome on business and made a campaign issue of his
rule-making approach. Some of today’s changes, including rules
for vapor-recovery systems at gasoline stations, a partial
exemption from installing railroad crash-avoidance technology,
and streamlined health-care reporting, were disclosed last year.  “They’ve already taken credit for this,” said James
Gattuso, a senior fellow at the Washington-based  Heritage
Foundation , which says it advocates conservative political
positions.  One change will save hospitals and doctors $5 billion over
five years by eliminating some reporting requirements,
particularly on Medicare and Medicaid patients, according to a
White House statement.  More Changes Pending  Other changes will eliminate rules requiring states to
mandate vapor-recovery systems at gasoline stations, exempt
railroads from installing crash-avoidance technology on tracks
that won’t carry toxic chemicals or passengers, and give states
and localities more time to replace street signs and other
traffic-control devices.  Obama signed an executive order institutionalizing a
periodic look-back on existing rules, and hundreds of more rule
changes are at various stages of consideration, Sunstein said.  The order may have broader effects than the regulatory
relief announced today, said William Kovacs, senior vice
president for regulatory affairs at the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, the largest U.S. business lobbying group.  A process for permanent review of regulations has eluded
administrations since 1980, he said. Obama may fare better
because his order lays out a blueprint for agencies to follow,
Kovacs said. “The executive order actually establishes a
schedule for reporting,” Kovacs said in an interview. “That’s
very positive.”  ‘Americans Need More’  Further action is needed, said  John Engler , head of the
Washington-based  Business Roundtable .  “We are pleased President Obama has taken an important
step towards smarter regulation,” Engler said in an e-mailed
statement. “Americans need more from the administration,
including a formal mechanism for weighing the cumulative
economic burden of all federal regulations and a process for
reducing that burden.”  The Environmental Protection Agency said last year it would
make the changes for gasoline stations announced today, because
technology in automobiles made after 2006 already captures smog-
forming vapors when refueling. The vapor-recovery systems in
pumps capture the fumes pushed out of an empty gasoline tank as
the fuel is pumped in.  The systems are now required in 12 northeastern states and
more than three dozen other high-ozone areas nationwide. The
savings from phasing out the systems will be $91 million a year,
according to an EPA fact sheet.  Service Stations Save  “This would mean a lot to the service stations,” Kirk
McCauley, director of member relations at the Service Station
Dealers Association of America, said in an interview. If the
vapor technology is included, “it will cost you $200 more for a
nozzle.”  Hospitals will be allowed to replace some staff physicians
with nurse-practitioners and physician assistants, saving the
industry an estimated $330 million a year, the government said.
They will also be able to reorganize supervision of their
outpatient departments, saving an estimated $305 million a year.  Dialysis clinics, which treat people suffering  kidney
failure , won’t be required to build fire-protection structures
that are necessary in hospitals, where patients are unconscious
or immobilized. The change will provide the industry a one-time
savings of $109 million, the government said.  Surgery centers won’t have to maintain a specific list of
emergency equipment that was written in 1982 and has since been
unchanged. Instead, the government will let facilities and
medical staffs decide what emergency equipment, such as
ventilators and heart defibrillators, they should have on hand.
The centers will save about $19 million from the change.  Rules Cost  Rules approved in the first 32 months of Obama’s presidency
cost $19.9 billion with net benefits of more than $91 billion,
according to the White House Office of Management and Budget.  Both the expense and benefit of rules surpassed the totals
of predecessors  Bill Clinton  and  George W. Bush  for comparable
periods, OMB figures show.  Sunstein has emphasized cost-benefit analysis in his
office’s approach to regulation review. In March, Sunstein
issued a  memo  underscoring the need to consider the cumulative
effects and burdens of new rules on business.  Last week, Sunstein  announced  an executive order calling
for U.S. regulations to align more closely with those of major
trading partners to reduce costs and promote economic growth.  Sunstein’s approach goes too easy on business, said Rena Steinzor, president of the Center for Progressive Reform, a
Washington-based research group that studies regulatory policy.
The group has issued a  report  critical of rulemaking delays by
the Obama White House.  “He’s playing a political game and I don’t understand why
he thinks it will work,” Steinzor said in a telephone
interview. “He is trying to neutralize the criticism that the
president is killing jobs through regulation. He’s trying to do
that by killing regulation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in  Washington  at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  