-- Obama Versus Romney Offers a Clash of Capitalisms
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-05-10T23:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/obama-versus-romney-offers-a-clash-of-capitalisms.html
We can already see the next six
months in American politics: Tit for tat. Blow for blow. You’re
Richie Rich. You’re  Jimmy Carter . This is what presidential
elections have been about since 1800. The only difference is
that we have YouTube instead of the Pony Express, so the noise
is louder and more constant.  But discerning voters need to understand the deep
philosophical distinctions between  Mitt Romney  and  Barack Obama 
even if they don’t lend themselves to campaign slogans or barbs.  Labels such as “conservative” and “liberal” are worn out.
“Right-wing” doesn’t fit Romney, who describes himself as
“severely conservative” but isn’t a wing nut. “Left-wing” is an
inaccurate description of the president, whose most “leftist”
initiative -- Obamacare -- is modeled on plans proposed by those
noted Bolsheviks  Bob Dole  and  Howard Baker .  A more useful distinction may be between venture
capitalists and human capitalists.  Romney came up as a private-equity investor. Like his
party, he believes in his heart that the way forward for the
U.S. is to slash taxes for the wealthy even further so that they
have more  venture capital  to invest in businesses.  Crisis of Capital  Obama came up as a community organizer. Like his party, he
believes in his heart that a great nation must invest in human
capital through education, health care and infrastructure.  The distinctions get more interesting when it comes to
their strategies for creating jobs. Republicans are right that
the U.S. needs to lower the corporate income tax rate, which in
2012 was the highest in the developed world. But cutting
individual rates in 2001 did nothing for  job creation ; and by
keeping taxes low on dividends, the Bush tax cuts inadvertently
helped bring about a crisis of capital investment in U.S.
manufacturing, the kind of investment that Republicans claim to
champion.  Investment by U.S. companies in new plant and equipment for
manufacturing was the  lowest  in the 2000s of any decade since
records were first kept in the 1940s. The net stock of fixed
assets in manufacturing grew by only 1.8 percent in the 2000s,
versus 25.7 percent in the 1990s.  The venture-capital answer is to just cut taxes further and
hope that the market will self-correct and this trend will
reverse itself. The human-capital answer is to use the  tax code 
to incentivize investment not just in plant and equipment, but
in research and development and workforce training (where
companies in the U.S. are investing about half as much as a
share of gross domestic product as they did a decade ago).  Who can argue with R&D spending, the main engine of
innovation? Both Obama and Romney are for making the R&D tax
credit permanent. But Congress, after letting the R&D tax credit
expire at the end of 2011, has yet to renew it. In 1992, the
credit was the world’s most generous; by 2008, it was only the
24th most generous, and the rate of growth in business R&D
spending has lagged that of many national competitors.  “Republicans have the view that if you cut taxes and don’t
tie it to anything specific, you can still get real domestic
development, but the last decade proves otherwise,” says Rob Atkinson of the nonpartisan  Information Technology and
Innovation Foundation . Atkinson favors what he calls a “new
bargain” with business where taxpayers say “we’ll reward you
with lower corporate taxes but you have to invest it in
machinery, worker retraining and R&D.”  Getting R&D Right  U.S. companies have been the major drivers in R&D spending
(the government’s share of total R&D, which was 26 percent in
2008, peaked in 1964 at 67 percent), but business R&D spending
as a proportion of gross domestic product has stayed relatively
flat in the U.S. over the last decade. Moreover, just as with
 capital investment , U.S. companies are spending more of their
R&D money overseas: From 1998 to 2008, U.S. corporate R&D
overseas expanded at more than 2 1/2 times the rate at home.  Why? Because venture interests aren’t national interests.
In Steve Coll’s new  book  on Exxon/Mobil, former Chief Executive
Officer Lee Raymond states the obvious when he says that oil
companies are no longer American but global entities. Romney
often accuses Obama of not standing up for the U.S. That’s rich
coming from a candidate who would slash spending for education
and scientific research for Americans to pay for tax cuts for
global businesses that invest more and more overseas. Already,
fiscal constraints have reduced federal spending on R&D to its
lowest percentage of the budget in a half-century.  The rap on targeted investment is that it smacks of
“picking winners and losers” or “industrial policy.” But the
true industrial-policy advocates are the venture capitalists,
who pick clean energy winners (or losers in the case of Solyndra
LLC) if they are Democrats and dirty energy winners (through tax
breaks for  oil companies ) if they are Republicans.  It’s the human capitalists who have the better argument,
one based on investing in basic research, education and health
care, the kind of things that spur long-term growth and
competitiveness.  Last week brought a classic example of the differing
approaches. The tussle over doubling  interest rates  for  student
loans  (scheduled for July 1) was a controversy ginned up for the
Obama campaign, but it was also an acid test. Democrats wanted
to pay for the lower rate with a modest business tax;
Republicans responded with plans to scuttle the preventive
health-care part of Obamacare, despite much evidence of its
efficacy for both people and budgets.  A campaign full of such debates -- concocted by the parties
or not -- would be far preferable to the usual pabulum. That
would help us come closer to understanding which capitalist tool
is the right one for re-tooling the American economy.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  solving Europe’s
employment woes  and the  futures of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac ;
Stephen L. Carter on the  overuse of the word “emergency” ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  Chinese banks ; Virginia Postrel on  Amazon’s
move into high fashion ; Tom Valasek on  Ukrainian politics and
soccer ; Gerald M. Rafshoon on  Mitt Romney and Jimmy Carter.   To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  