-- OCBC Quarterly Profit Up 32% on Loans, Trading Income
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-05-11T05:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/ocbc-quarterly-profit-rises-32-on-insurance-trading-income.html
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) ,
Southeast  Asia ’s second-largest lender, posted a 32 percent
increase in first-quarter profit on higher income from corporate
borrowing, insurance, trading and investments.  Net income advanced to S$832 million ($664 million) from
S$628 million a year earlier, OCBC said in a statement to the
stock exchange today. That exceeded the  average  S$632 million of
seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The bank follows domestic rivals  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) 
and United Overseas Bank Ltd. in posting first-quarter profit
increases higher than analysts’ estimates. OCBC Chief Executive
Officer Samuel Tsien boosted non-interest income 28 percent,
from businesses including wealth management, trading and the
Great Eastern Holdings Ltd. insurance unit, while higher lending
offset lower interest margins.  “Overall, the results were good as trading gains and
income from insurance came in strong,” said Sharnie Wong, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Barclays Plc. “The underlying
operating trends were not as strong as peers though,” she said,
citing a deterioration in asset quality and a narrowing of net
interest margins.  The insurance business registered profit gains of 66
percent, OCBC said today. Its S$279 million operating profit for
the quarter accounted for 28 percent of the group’s total.  Margins Narrow  Shares of the bank slipped 0.2 percent to S$8.91 as of 1:38
p.m. in  Singapore . OCBC has risen 14 percent this year, compared
with the 8.9 percent gain of the Straits Times index.  Tsien, who took over as CEO from David Conner last month,
is competing with Singapore-based rivals to expand in Asia as
banks in the city-state face the lowest loan profitability in
Southeast Asia. The average net interest margin for Singapore
banks was 2.02 percent, the lowest among countries including
 Indonesia ,  Malaysia  and the  Philippines , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tsien told reporters today in Singapore, that greater  China 
and Indonesia are the bank’s new core markets. China,  Hong Kong 
and  Taiwan  accounted for 7 percent, or S$73 million, of pretax
profit in the first quarter, compared with 5 percent, or S$38
million, a year earlier.  Interest Income  OCBC’s net interest income, the difference between what a
bank makes from lending and what it pays on deposits, grew 21
percent from a year earlier to S$951 million as loans grew.
Margins on loans contracted to 1.86 percent from 1.9 percent a
year earlier, it said in the statement.  Provisions for credit and other losses jumped 98 percent
last quarter to S$96 million from a year earlier.  “On a relative basis, OCBC’s performance was the least
impressive,” said Wee Siang Ng, a banking analyst at BNP
Paribas Securities Singapore Pte, citing quarter-on-quarter
comparisons with city rivals.  Gross loans to customers contracted 0.4 percent, compared
with an expansion of 1.5 percent at DBS and 2.6 percent at UOB,
he said. OCBC also had the smallest quarter-on-quarter widening
of the net interest margin at 1 basis point versus 4 basis
points at DBS and 3 basis points at UOB.  Loan Quality  Deterioration in loan quality from the fourth quarter was
unique to OCBC, Ng said.  DBS,  Southeast Asia ’s largest bank, last quarter
unexpectedly posted a profit increase of 16 percent to a record
S$933 million, compared with a year earlier, on higher income
from interest and trading.  United Overseas Bank, the region’s third-biggest, also beat
analysts’ estimates for the quarter on May 9, posting a profit
increase of 12 percent on higher income from lending, fees and
commissions, and trading and investment.  ‘Wild Card’  Net trading income at OCBC climbed 98 percent to S$160
million, and gains from investments were up 85 percent to S$43
million, as financial markets rallied worldwide.  The MSCI World Index posted its best performance in six
quarters in the period as  Europe ’s debt crisis eased and U.S.
unemployment fell, helping boost trading revenue at lenders
worldwide including  Bank of America Corp .  “The wild card will always be income related to the
 capital markets ,” Ng said before the results.  The bank’s net fees and commissions were unchanged at S$274
million as gains from  wealth management  and loan-related
activities were offset by declines in brokerage and investment
banking.  Private banking assets under management grew to $35 billion
as of the end of the quarter, a 25 percent increase from a year
earlier, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  