-- Oil-Company Transparency: Bloomberg Businessweek Opening Remarks
-- B y   S t e v e   C o l l
-- 2012-05-10T21:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/oil-company-transparency-bloomberg-businessweek-opening-remarks.html
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act, the most sweeping financial law enacted
since the Great Depression, is supposed to protect investors and
shield the economy from bubbles and speculation.  Its promise is hard to judge; many detailed rules are still
being drafted. What can be said with confidence is that Dodd-
Frank has been a boon for lobbyists, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its May 14 issue.  This spring a scrum of them is grappling over a relatively
obscure provision known as Section 1504.  Bill Gates ,  George Soros , Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , and Republican
Senator  Richard Lugar  have endorsed the proviso. Big Oil and
mining corporations are determined to undo it.  At issue is a problem not typically associated with Wall
Street reform: how to help citizens in poor countries stop their
leaders from stealing money earned from oil and mineral sales.  Dodd-Frank would use Securities and Exchange Commission
rules to require resource companies listed on U.S. stock
exchanges to make timely, detailed disclosures of the tax and
royalty payments they make to governments worldwide.  Anti-poverty groups such as Oxfam and Publish What You Pay
have long argued that such transparency can help reduce
corruption in oil-rich, thievery-plagued places such as Nigeria
and  Iraq  by giving local media and civil society the hard data
they need to ask where their country’s cash is going.  Voluntary Regime  Large oil and mining companies already participate in a
voluntary regime, the Extractive Industries Transparency
Initiative.  Executives at  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s biggest oil
company, have sat on the Initiative’s board. Reformers have been
frustrated by the slow and incomplete nature of the disclosures
required by EITI; Dodd-Frank is a chance to push through tougher
rules.  Lobbyists are now urging the SEC to delay action or to
narrow the kinds of disclosures that would be required. The
 American Petroleum Institute , the industry’s Washington arm, is
leading the push, but all major oil and mining companies have
joined in on their own. ( Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  is the only major
exception; it has expressed support for the 1504 rules.)  The companies argue that the proposed rules would be
“excessively burdensome,” in the words of Patrick Mulva, Exxon
Mobil’s vice president and controller. Big Oil’s “greater
concern,” as Mulva wrote in a letter to the commission, is that
1504 would have a “detrimental effect” on the “global
competitiveness of U.S. companies.”  SEC Slow  The fear is that Chinese, Russian, Brazilian and Indian oil
and mining companies, lacking qualms and unburdened by Dodd-
Frank rules, would exploit the financial disclosures made by
their Western competitors to outbid them--and potentially
persuade leaders of resource-rich countries in the developing
world to stay away from U.S. companies altogether.  The SEC has been slow to vote on the new rules. Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  and a second commissioner have recused themselves
because of past ties to resource or energy corporations. A 2 to
1 Democratic majority on the SEC remains in place, and Secretary
of State Clinton recently urged the commissioners to “go as far
as they can” with detailed rules to achieve Dodd-Frank’s
original intent.  To its supporters, Section 1504 is an opportunity to help
poor countries break the “resource curse”--the tendency of
governments endowed with oil or minerals to squander their
bounty through theft and distorted development. By that
standard, the question is less whether Dodd-Frank imposes unfair
burdens on Big Oil than whether it goes far enough.  Unable to Deliver  Since the transparency movement began in the 1990s,
changing the corrupt ways of oil-engorged dictators by shaming
them through financial disclosures hasn’t proved easy, and the
movement’s achievements are hard to tally.  As Western oil corporations have entered poor and troubled
countries in  Africa  and elsewhere, they have pledged time and
again to use their influence to improve local governance and the
welfare of the very poor people who live beside their mines and
oil fields. But even where the companies have acted in good
faith, they’ve been unable to deliver change.  The story of oil-led development in Chad, a landlocked
country in central Africa, is perhaps the most striking example
of such promises betrayed. Chad’s population of 11 million has
suffered under a succession of dictators. The latest, Idriss Deby, moved to develop the country’s long-neglected oil
reserves. He persuaded the  World Bank  to bless a pipeline to the
Atlantic Ocean by pledging under contract that Chad would use
its oil wealth for education, health, and social development.  Deby’s Windfall  Exxon Mobil arrived to pump out the oil. As the project
started,  Rex Tillerson , now the oil company’s chairman,
described Chad as a “clean sheet of paper” where it would be
possible to “put things in place perhaps the way you’d like to
see them carried out from the very beginning.” The World Bank,
too, trumpeted Chad’s experiment in oil revenue transparency as
a potential model for poor countries worldwide.  When the money flowed, however, Deby diverted cash to buy
weapons. He used  tax revenue  from Exxon Mobil to buy his way out
of the World Bank social spending covenants, while keeping his
countrymen and political foes in the dark about how large Chad’s
newfound riches were, according to Department of State cables
disclosed by WikiLeaks and through a Freedom of Information Act
request.  Because of higher  oil prices , Deby’s regime received a
windfall during 2006 and 2007 totaling tens of millions of
dollars, providing him with the means to pay down loans and
wriggle free of earlier commitments to the World Bank and the
Bush administration--but only Exxon Mobil and Deby knew the
details about how much Exxon Mobil had been required to pay to
the government when the fate of Chad’s promised development
spending was being argued.  Resource Curse  Had the rules contemplated by Dodd-Frank been in place,
they might not by themselves have stopped Deby, but they would
have given his domestic opponents a better chance to challenge
him.  Chad today is a poster child for the resource curse. In
2000, it ranked 167th out of 174 nations assessed by the United
Nations Human Development Index, a table of quality of life
indicators; average  life expectancy  was 47 years.  Last year, despite billions of dollars in oil exports and
plenty of profits earned by Exxon Mobil and its consortium
partners,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Petroliam Nasional Bhd., Chad ranked
183rd out of 187 countries, and life expectancy had barely
advanced.  Revenue Transparency  Companies like Exxon Mobil recognize that expectations for
how corporations handle their wealth and power in such
impoverished countries are changing in the Internet Age, but
they understandably resist any suggestion that they become
nation-builders. “We’re not the  Red Cross ,” an Exxon Mobil
executive once said about the Chad experiment.  At the same time, the company and its Big Oil peers have
embraced the value of revenue transparency in principle through
their participation in the voluntary program through which they
disclose aggregated data country by country.  Presumably the companies aren’t doing so only for favorable
publicity, but because they accept that such information sharing
can improve governance. The question, then, is not one of
principle but whether, in comparison to current, voluntary
practices, Dodd-Frank would do harm to the competitiveness of
American businesses.  Special Standard  That’s unlikely. A generation ago, Congress insisted when
it passed the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act that U.S.-
headquartered multinationals would be held to a special
standard, forgoing bribery even where it was commonplace abroad,
and would have to learn how to compete with unscrupulous
Russian, Chinese, or French companies.  Not only did American business survive and thrive after the
law was passed, but forward-thinking American executives learned
to use the law to fob off outstretched hands and avoid unsavory
rents they wouldn’t have wished to pay in the first place.  When it comes to Big Oil’s foreign entanglements, tougher
rules on transparency would also benefit national security. Four
years ago, Senator Lugar commissioned from GOP congressional
staff The Petroleum and Poverty Paradox, one of the most
thorough studies of the resource curse and its impact on  U.S.
foreign policy . Lugar argues that American national interests
are at stake because oil-linked corruption and instability in
Africa and elsewhere create a “seedbed for terrorism” and
contribute to rising and volatile energy prices, damaging the
world economy.  Revenue transparency probably isn’t the cure-all that Lugar
and anti-poverty campaigners hope. The Chad example illustrates
the limits of dealing with corrupt and myopic foreign leaders.  Disclosure’s Impact  It’s hard to identify a case where disclosure has yet made
a direct improvement in the lives of poor people ruled by
thieves; at best, voluntary disclosures have had an indirect
impact by encouraging media reporting in more open but corrupt
societies such as  Nigeria .  Perhaps the stricter rules contemplated in Section 1504
will lead to new breakthroughs, but anti-poverty campaigners
should be honest about the evidence so far and the
uncertainties, and they should be ready to change course if
Dodd-Frank’s assumptions don’t pan out.  Section 1504 may only be a start toward breaking the
resource curse. But it’s a start all the same. Dodd-Frank is the
law of the land; it’s past time for the SEC to transform the
intent of Congress into change.  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Kristin Powers
in  New York  at   kpowers8@bloomberg.net  