-- Oil Heads for Second Weekly Drop as Supply Exceeds Demand
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-05-11T11:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/oil-heads-for-second-weekly-drop-as-supply-exceeds-demand.html
Oil fell in New York, heading for a
second weekly drop, on concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will
worsen and curb fuel demand as global crude supplies increase.  Futures slipped as much as 1.4 percent, retreating for the
seventh time in eight days. OPEC is producing 8.3 percent more
crude than it considers necessary this quarter, data released
yesterday by the Vienna-based group showed. The  International
Energy Agency  said today global oil markets are “marginally
tighter” and predicted that geopolitical risks to crude supply
will keep prices high.  “The recent correction is to do with the broader risk-off
mode,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-markets 
strategy at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “We had been building up
to a correction as a result of higher OPEC supply and a whole
string of crude inventory gains in the U.S. But fundamentals are
sufficient to maintain the price above $95.”  Crude for June delivery fell as much as $1.34 to $95.74 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $96.15 at 12:49 p.m. London time. The
contract rose 27 cents to $97.08 yesterday. Prices are 2.4
percent lower this week and down 2.8 percent this year.  Brent oil for June settlement slipped 78 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $111.95 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
West Texas Intermediate was at $15.80, compared with $15.65
yesterday.  Iran Threat  The IEA made a “modest” 80,000 barrel-a-day increase to
estimates for oil consumption in 2012 following more positive
economic growth projections by the  International Monetary Fund ,
and trimmed its assessment for supplies from outside OPEC.  Still, inventories are above their five-year average for
the first time in a year. The impact of sanctions on  Iran  is
“near the top” of threats to crude shipments, the Paris-based
agency said today in its monthly oil market report.  Oil may extend declines next week amid rising U.S.
stockpiles and concern the crisis in Europe will spread,
threatening the global economic recovery. Eleven of 23 analysts,
or 48 percent, in a Bloomberg survey forecast oil will drop
through May 18. Nine respondents, or 39 percent, predicted
prices will be little changed and three estimated there will be
a gain.  “The outlook remains mixed to negative and I think that’s
the state of play for a little while,” said  Jonathan Barratt ,
chief executive of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-markets
newsletter in Sydney. “The optimism we had at the end of 2011
that created a firm footing for a lot of commodities has slowly
eroded. We still continue to see inventory builds.”  U.S. Supplies  U.S. crude stockpiles rose 3.7 million barrels last week to
379.5 million, the highest level since 1990, Energy Department
data showed May 9. Total fuel demand averaged over the four
weeks ended May 4 fell 0.5 percent to 18.7 million barrels a
day, down 0.8 percent from a year earlier.  Greece  has been unable to form a government since May 6
elections, raising the possibility that another vote will have
to be held as early as next month.  Spain ’s government took
control of the nation’s fourth-biggest lender this week as it
starts its fourth bank cleanup in three years.  Iraq, seeking to more than double oil output by 2015, is
poised to overtake Iran as the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries’ second-largest producer by the end of the
year as sanctions hobble crude production in its Persian Gulf
neighbor. Iraq produced 3.03 million barrels a day in April, 7.7
percent more than in March, while Iranian output fell to 3.2
million a day, according to OPEC’s monthly report yesterday.  Reduced Shipments  OPEC, responsible for 40 percent of global oil supplies,
bolstered production by 320,000 barrels a day in April to 31.62
million, it said in its report.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s
largest oil exporter, increased supply by 56,500 barrels a day
to 9.9 million, according to OPEC, whose estimates are based on
secondary sources including analysts and news agencies.  The group will cut shipments by 1.8 percent this month as
refiners in Asia conduct seasonal maintenance, according to Oil
Movements. OPEC will export 23.96 million barrels a day in the
four weeks to May 26, compared with 24.39 million in the period
to April 28, the tanker-tracker yesterday in a report. The data
exclude shipments by Angola and  Ecuador .  China  cut its oil processing to the lowest level in six
months in April amid refinery maintenance and slowing fuel
demand. Refining fell to 9.03 million barrels a day last month,
the least since October, according to Bloomberg calculations
from a statement by the National Bureau of Statistics in Beijing
today.  Oil in  New York  has technical support along its 200-day
moving average, about $96.27 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures have traded lower than this
indicator every day this week without settling below it. Crude’s
14-day relative strength index is at 29.6, the lowest since
August. A reading below 30 signals prices have fallen too
quickly and further losses may not be sustained.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  