-- Okada Says SEC Asked to Talk to Him for Wynn Inquiry
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/okada-says-sec-wants-to-interview-him-for-wynn-resorts-inquiry.html
Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada said
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission asked to interview
him in connection with its inquiry into  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) ’s $135
million donation to the University of  Macau .  Okada cited the agency’s request in a May 3 filing in
Nevada state court in Las Vegas. Okada, who Wynn Resorts is
trying to remove from its board of directors, asked the judge to
expedite a hearing on his renewed request to inspect the casino
operator’s books and records.  “If ever there were a time when a director needed
inspection, it is now,” Okada’s lawyers said in the filing.
“The other directors, under the control of Mr. Wynn, and for
their own financial self interest, have closed ranks against Mr.
Okada.”  Okada held the largest single stake in Wynn Resorts through
his Tokyo-based  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425)  until February.
Then, in an escalating battle with founder and Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Wynn, his 20 percent stake in Wynn Resorts was
forcibly redeemed because, the company said, he was
“unsuitable.”  Books and Records  Okada sought a court order in January that, as a director,
he was entitled to inspect Wynn Resort’s books and records
regarding its pledge last year to the University of Macau.
Nevada state court Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez ordered Wynn Resorts
to produce only two more pages of documents to Okada.  In his renewed request, Okada seeks additional documents
from 2000 through 2002 regarding entertainment of and contacts
with Macau government officials and documents explaining the
company’s use of $120 million he invested in 2002.  A hearing is scheduled in  Las Vegas  on May 17.  Wynn Resorts sued Okada Feb. 19, alleging that Okada is
developing two casinos and three hotels in  Manila  and that he
seeks to lure “high-limit, VIP gamblers” from  China  in direct
competition with Wynn’s casino in Macau. The company said in a
statement that day that an investigation found that Okada
appeared to have paid $110,000 to gaming regulators in the
Philippines in violation of U.S. anti-corruption laws.  Okada filed counterclaims challenging the redemption of his
own 20 percent stake in the company at an $800 million discount,
saying Wynn Resorts is run by  Steve Wynn  as a “personal
fiefdom.”  “Mr. Okada has refused to allow his attorneys to accept
service of the lawsuit filed against him,”  Robert Shapiro , a
lawyer for Wynn Resorts, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “This is his attempt to obtain discovery without
submitting to the jurisdiction of the court.”  The case is Okada v. Wynn Resorts, A-12-654522-B, District
Court, Clark County Nevada (Las Vegas),  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 