-- Old Mutual First-Quarter Sales Drop on Euro-Area Turmoil
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-05-10T07:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/old-mutual-first-quarter-sales-drop-on-euro-area-turmoil-1-.html
Old Mutual Plc (OML) , the third-biggest
insurer in the U.K. by  market value , said sales fell 13 percent
in the first quarter as turmoil in the euro area undermined
investor confidence.  Sales on a so-called annual premium equivalent basis fell
to 269 million pounds ($434 million) in the first quarter, the
London-based firm said in a statement today. That beat the 262-
million-pound estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by the company.
Assets under management increased 6 percent to 284 billion
pounds.  “The prolonged turmoil in the eurozone has continued to
undermine investor confidence, creating a subdued retail
investment market in  Europe  as a whole,” Julian Roberts, the
insurer’s chief executive officer, said in the statement. “With
growth in funds under management and further strategic progress,
overall this has been another good quarter.”  Shares (OML)  in the firm rose 1.6 percent to 146.2 pence by 8:16
a.m. in  London , paring its decline this year to 5.6 percent.  Old Mutual, recovering from two years of net losses linked
to hedging failures in 2008 and writedowns of investments, has
sold 2.3 billion pounds of  assets  since March 2010 to cut debt.
The company, which is Africa’s largest insurer, sold its U.S.
life insurance unit in 2010, and agreed to sell its Nordic unit
to Skandia Liv in December. The company, which wants to focus on
the more profitable emerging markets, is also considering an
initial public offering of its U.S. asset management unit.  “Our strong franchises and significant exposure to higher-
growth  emerging markets  underpin prospects for the year as a
whole,” Old Mutual said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  