-- Hollande Bond Buyers Bet on Market-Friendly Government
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-05-10T07:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/hollande-bond-buyers-bet-on-market-friendly-government.html
French bond investors are confident
President-elect  Francois Hollande ’s cabinet picks will be
market-friendly, yields close to a seven-month low suggest.  “If Hollande has any sense, which he does, then I wouldn’t
expect him to antagonize the markets,” said Michael Riddell, a
 fund manager  at M&G Investments in London, which oversees about
$323 billion.  With the rise of Greek anti-austerity political parties
roiling markets, bondholders are anticipating the Socialist
leader will choose ministers who favor free-market policies over
those who have opposed fiscal rigor once he’s sworn in May 15.
Hollande’s appointments will be among the first indications of
the direction he intends to take.  Two days after Hollande defeated President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
in the May 6 election,  France ’s 10-year yield dropped to a two-
month low of 2.76 percent, one basis point shy of its lowest
since Oct. 10, 2011. It was at 2.85 percent today.  The extra yield, or  spread , investors demand to hold the
securities instead of similar-maturity German bunds is 131 basis
points, down from 149 basis points on April 20, the last day of
trading before the French election’s first round on April 22.
That level was the widest since Jan. 9. The average spread
during the past year is 94 basis points.  French debt has returned 2.9 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds have risen 2.2
percent. In the past month, French bonds have added 0.6 percent.  Hollande’s Team  Investors would be dismayed if Hollande were to name
 Martine Aubry , best known for implementing France’s 35-hour
work-week law a decade ago, as his prime minister, said Piet Lammens, head of research at KBC Bank NV in Brussels.  “If Madame Aubry was made prime minister or minister of
finance that wouldn’t be welcomed by the  bond market ,” he said.
“We know she is against many of the reforms of Mr. Sarkozy and
would be more eager to change them.”  Jean-Marc Ayrault, the German-speaking head of the
Socialist group at the National Assembly and Hollande’s point
man for negotiating with Germany’s Social Democrats, is among
the market favorites for the top job in the Hollande government.  “I don’t believe Hollande is going to scare the market by
appointing a staunchly leftist prime minister,” said Nicholas Spiro of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London. “It looks like he
will pick Ayrault.”  Michel Sapin, 60, who was finance minister in the early
1990s for former President  Francois Mitterrand , may play the
same role in the Hollande administration.  Limited Room  Hollande’s government will be constrained by slowing growth
and government debt approaching 90 percent of gross domestic
product this year.  “The premier he appoints is going to have the same room
for manoeuvre whoever he or she is,” said Spiro.  Although Hollande, 57, has promised to shrink France’s
budget deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product next year
and to eliminate it by the end of the next presidential mandate
in 2017, he has said little about cutting spending.  His campaign promises include hiring 60,000 teachers and
public school employees and 5,000 police officers over the next
five years, pulling back the minimum  retirement age  to 60 from
62 and reworking the fiscal treaty agreed to by European leaders
in December to include growth.  Hollande’s victory was greeted with disappointment by those
surveyed in the Bloomberg Global Poll as 71 percent said it
makes them less willing to buy French bonds. Sixty percent
regarded Hollande unfavorably and 71 percent viewed his policies
with pessimism, according to the survey of the 1,253 investors,
analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers.  Slowing Growth  “French  government bonds  have a great intrinsic risk due
to the fact that Hollande hasn’t exactly based his presidential
campaign on how to cut expenditures,” said Christian Borjesson,
chief analyst at  Nordea Markets  in  Stockholm . “To bond markets,
that’s nothing but bad news. The only thing that could prevent
austerity is growth.”  With the economy estimated by the government to slow to 0.7
percent this year from 1.6 percent in 2011, Borjesson is
maintaining his “bearish view ”on French government debt.  Still, expectations that Hollande, for all his criticism of
the German-led austerity push to fight  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis, won’t turn his rhetoric into deficit-swelling action has
made French bonds more attractive than Spanish securities.  The spread between France’s 10-year bonds and similar
maturity  Spanish securities  widened 18 basis points to 3.21
percentage points yesterday as the French benchmarks
outperformed their Iberian counterparts. That’s the widest gap
since March 1996, according to closing price data.  End of Merkozy  On the campaign trail, Hollande differed with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  about steering the region away from a
focus on austerity as the solution to its debt crisis and toward
measures intended to spur growth.  The issue might get traction after a split parliament in
 Greece  risks its future in the euro area. The country’s second-
largest party is threatening to reject the terms of the
European-led bailout.  That may be among the most pressing matters in Hollande’s
in-tray when he takes over. The close working relationship
between Sarkozy and Merkel led to the coining of the term
“Merkozy” and helped Europe’s two largest economies steer the
course of Greek politics last year when then Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  wanted to call a referendum on the bailout.  Now, Hollande will have to find a way to patch up his
differences with  Germany ’s leader in setting a response to the
new strength of anti-bailout parties in Greece’s new parliament.  ‘Saving Face’  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said last week
that his government will look for ways of allowing Hollande to
“save face” while expecting him to uphold commitments to
Europe’s budget treaty. Hollande’s campaign chief  Pierre Moscovici  said yesterday that both Hollande and Merkel
understand they need to cooperate.  “It’s clear that there are differences of approach
between” Merkel and Hollande, Moscovici told Le Monde newspaper
in an interview. “Everyone is aware of their responsibilities.
Franco-German accord is an imperative for the future of
Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in  London  at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  