-- Tombini Says Brazil Inflation Continues to Slow to Target
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-05-10T20:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/tombini-says-brazil-inflation-continues-to-slow-to-target-1-.html
Brazil ’s  higher-than-expected 
increase in prices last month won’t keep inflation from slowing
toward its target, central bank President Alexandre Tombini
said.  Consumer price increases will ease in the next three months
and remain below the 0.64 percent gain posted in April, which
was more than the central bank expected, Tombini told reporters
in  Rio de Janeiro  today.  “We are in a process in which inflation is converging”
toward target, Tombini said. “Over the next three months,
monthly inflation will be slower than in April.”  Consumer prices in April jumped the most in a year, leading
traders to increase bets policy makers will reverse course and
raise the Selic rate early next year, after cutting it to a
 record  over the next three months. The real posted the biggest
decline among the most traded currencies in the past three
months, reinforcing expectations policy makers will miss their
inflation target of 4.5 percent as companies pass higher import
costs on to consumers.  Analysts raised their 2013 inflation forecast to 5.56
percent in the most recent weekly central bank survey, from 5.11
percent at the end of February.  Weakening Real  Tombini said the real is weakening as part of global trend
that is strengthening the dollar against most currencies, adding
that Brazil’s floating exchange rate helps “protect the
economy.”  The yield on interest rate futures contracts maturing in
January 2014 rose 19 basis points this week, as traders stepped
up bets on interest rate increases next year.  Earlier today, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told
reporters in Brasilia that the weaker currency wasn’t a concern
for the government. Under Mantega’s watch, Brazil stepped up
measures to stem a rally in the real that was hurting domestic
manufacturers.  The real, which fell 12 percent in the past three months,
rose 0.9 percent to 1.9530 percent U.S. dollar at 5:09 p.m.
local time.  The stronger dollar “will benefit Brazilian industry,”
Mantega said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  