-- Money Market Indicators Signal Stress in Banking Sector Eases
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-10T13:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/money-market-indicators-signal-stress-in-banking-sector-eases.html
Money-market indicators signaled the
ability of banks to borrow and lend short term funds increased,
with the gap between the London interbank offered rate and the
Federal funds rate narrowing.  The three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
which represents the rate banks say it would cost them to borrow
from each other,  was  0.46685 percent, unchanged from yesterday,
according to the British Bankers’ Association.  The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend,
was 31.9 basis points, from 32.2 basis points yesterday. The gap
was as high as 51 basis points this year on Jan. 6. Overnight
index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on where the Fed’s
effective funds rate will average for the term of the swap. The
central bank’s target rate is set in a range of zero to 0.25
percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, narrowed to 34.1 basis points from 35.1
basis points yesterday.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, narrowed 1.8 basis points to 31.75 basis points. The gap
is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking-sector
credit risk, as swap rates are derived from expectations for
dollar Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in
many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollar-based funding via the cross currency
swaps market narrowed. The three-month cross-currency basis swap
was 44.1 basis points below Euribor, compared to 48.2 basis
points below yesterday.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, held steady.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was
unchanged at 38 basis points. The measure has fallen from 95
basis points at the start of the year.  The market for corporate borrowing through U.S.  commercial
paper  expanded the most in four months in the most recent weekly
data provided by the  Federal Reserve . The seasonally adjusted
amount of U.S. commercial paper jumped $14.1 billion to $939.9
billion outstanding in the week ended May 2. Corporations sell
commercial paper, typically maturing in 270 days or less, to
fund everyday activities such as paying rent and salaries.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was unchanged at minus 30.3 basis points,.
A negative swap price indicates investors are willing to receive
reduced interest payments on the yen they lend in order to
obtain the needed financing in dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  