-- Hong Kong Exchanges Said to Make Offer for London Metal Exchange
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-05-10T17:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/hong-kong-exchanges-said-to-make-offer-for-london-metal-exchange.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) ,
 Asia ’s biggest bourse operator, submitted a takeover bid for the
London Metal Exchange, two people with knowledge of the matter
said.  “LME is a big opportunity for all exchanges,” Kenneth Yue, an analyst at CCB International Securities Ltd., said in
Hong Kong. “If Hong Kong Exchanges can win the bidding, it will
definitely be good for the exchange in the long run. Many
analysts think that the cash market is mature.”  Hong Kong Exchanges, which this year was overtaken as the
world’s largest market company, will be making its first
overseas acquisition should it beat competing offers from  CME
Group Inc. (CME) ,  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  for
the LME. The Asian bourse operator is seeking to stem two
consecutive quarters of profit declines as trading volumes and
initial public offerings slow.  Scott Sapp, a spokesman for  Hong Kong  Exchanges, declined
to comment beyond an April 30 statement from the bourse that
said it “continues to participate in the process.” The people
familiar with the bourse’s bid asked not to be identified
because the process is confidential.  Hong Kong Exchanges has declined 5.6 percent in trading
this year, valuing the company at $16.3 billion. Shares of
Chicago-based CME, owner of the world’s biggest futures
exchange, have gained 6.7 percent for the same period,
increasing its market value to $17.3 billion.  Buying the London Metal Exchange will give Hong Kong
Exchanges global reach and jumpstart its ambitions to expand its
commodities offering. The 135-year-old metal bourse handles
about 80 percent of global trading in metals futures, and
reported record volume of $15.4 trillion last year.  Competing Bids  Miriam Heywood, a spokeswoman for the LME, said the
exchange had no comment.  The LME began a process in September that it said may lead
to it being acquired. CME, NYSE and IntercontinentalExchange
submitted bids before a May 7 deadline, according to five people
with direct knowledge of the matter.  The metal bourse is owned by 70 of its 92 members,
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and UBS
AG. Any bid will have to be approved by more than 50 percent of
shareholders, with the owners of at least 75 percent of shares
backing the move.  The purchase price for LME may be between 1 billion pounds
($1.6 billion) and 1.5 billion pounds, according to a May 3
report by  UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. (UOBK)  The bourse reported a
profit of 9.5 million pounds for 2010.  Biggest IPO Market  Hong Kong Exchanges “would need to issue shares to buy the
LME and that would dilute the earnings per share,” said  Alex Au , Hong Kong-based managing director of Richland Capital
Management Ltd., which oversees $300 million. “The earnings
generated by the LME is quite tiny.”  Hong Kong Exchanges reported on May 8 a 7 percent profit
drop for the three months ended March 30, a second quarterly
decline, as expenses climbed and listing fees fell. The exchange
was the world’s biggest initial public offering market in 2009,
2010, and 2011, according to the city’s regulator.  An “urgent action” is required to build its businesses in
financial derivatives and commodities to meet its goal of being
a comprehensive financial center for  China , Hong Kong Exchanges
said Feb. 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  