-- OPEC Says ‘Plentiful’ Global Oil Supplies Outpace Demand
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-05-10T10:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/opec-says-plentiful-global-oil-supplies-outpace-demand.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries said that global oil supplies are outpacing
demand levels, keeping its forecast for world consumption this
year unchanged.  OPEC, scheduled to meet next month, is producing 8.3
percent more crude than it considers necessary this quarter,
data released today by the Vienna-based group show. This has
helped inventories in developed nations to reach “comfortable
levels,” equivalent to about 59 days worth of consumption,
according to an e-mailed report.  “Higher OPEC crude oil production underscores the current
trend of plentiful supply in excess of market requirements,”
OPEC’s secretariat said in its Monthly Oil Market Report.  Brent crude futures have fallen 10 percent in the past two
months, trading today at $113 a barrel, as  Europe  struggles to
resolve its debt crisis and the global economic recovery
sputters. Still, Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said on
May 8 that prices are too high while the organization’s
Secretary-General, Abdalla el-Badri, said last week that OPEC
will work to bring them down.  OPEC, responsible for 40 percent of global oil supplies,
said in the report it bolstered production by 320,000 barrels a
day in April to 31.62 million, led by increases in output from
 Iraq . Saudi Arabia increased supply by 56,500 barrels a day to
9.9 million, according to OPEC estimates which are based on
secondary sources.  Production Excess  The world will consume 88.7 million barrels of crude a day
this year, about 900,000 barrels a day or 1 percent more than in
2011, the organization said. That’s 40,000 barrels a day higher
than the group projected in last month’s report.  April’s production level is about 2.4 million barrels a day
more than the 29.2 million that OPEC estimates its 12 members
need to provide in the second quarter. The organization
forecasts it will need to supply 30.9 million a barrels a day in
the third quarter. For 2012, it estimates that 30 million
barrels a day are required, in line with the formal quota agreed
at the group’s last meeting in December.  OPEC also boosted its estimate for production from outside
the organization in 2012, by 50,000 barrels a day. Non-OPEC
suppliers such as  Russia ,  Canada  and the U.S. will increase
output by 600,000 barrels a day this year, to 53 million a day.  “Taken together, higher non-OPEC supply and rising OPEC
production has resulted in total supply exceeding market needs
in the first quarter,” the organization said.  The group’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,  Iran ,
Iraq, Kuwait,  Libya ,  Nigeria , Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United
Arab Emirates and Venezuela. OPEC will next meet on June 14 in
Vienna.  The  International Energy Agency , an adviser to consuming
nations, will release its own monthly report on global oil
supply and demand levels tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  