-- Optus Loses Legal Fight With Sports Leagues Over Matches
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-05-10T04:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/optus-loses-legal-fight-with-sports-leagues-over-matches.html
SingTel Optus Ltd. will ask
 Australia ’s top court for a review after losing a legal dispute
with sports leagues wanting to protect broadcasting rights
valued at more than A$2 billion ($2 billion).  The  Australian Football League , the most popular spectator
sport in the country, and the  National Rugby League  sued Optus,
claiming its TV Now service infringes copyright. An Australian
federal court appeal panel on April 27 agreed with them,
overturning a lower court ruling.  “This is a very important public policy issue that needs
to be determined by the highest court in the land,” Paul O’Sullivan, Optus’s chief executive officer, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Cloud computing will see Australians using
applications held online and wanting to store online, rather
than just using fixed hardware based in the home.”  Central to the dispute is determination of who creates the
electronic files viewed by the customer. TV Now allows users in
Australia’s mainland state capitals of Sydney,  Melbourne ,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth to record free-to-air television
programs, including AFL and NRL games, and play them back on
computers, Apple Inc. iPads, and most 3G mobile devices. Some
programs can be viewed within minutes of airing live.  The AFL, NRL and Telstra Corp., Australia’s biggest phone
company, said TV Now infringed their copyrights because the
service makes the match recordings, stores them on its servers,
and passes them on to customers.  Judge Steven Rares said in February that Optus customers
record the broadcasts for personal use, much as people use video
cassette or digital video recorders, which Australian copyright
allows. His decision was then overturned by the three-member
appeal panel in Sydney last month.  ‘Future for Innovation’  The case is “extremely important in deciding the future
for innovation, consumer choice and competition,” O’Sullivan
said.  Optus ceased offering the TV Now service following the
appeal court ruling. The company won’t seek an injunction to let
it resume the service, pending the outcome of the High Court
appeal, Jacqui Christie, a spokeswoman at Optus, said by e-mail.  The AFL signed a five-year, A$1.25 billion agreement last
year with  Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM) ’s Seven Network, Foxtel,
Australia’s biggest pay television operator, and Telstra Corp.
for exclusive broadcast rights to its games. The NRL is in talks
with broadcasters on a new deal that the Sydney Morning Herald
reported would be valued at A$1.2 billion.  The case is National Rugby League Investments Ltd. v.
SingTel Optus Ltd. NSD201/2012 Federal Court of Australia, Full
Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  