-- Morgan Stanley Managing Director Chases Atlantic Cup Sailing Win
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-05-11T04:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/morgan-stanley-managing-director-seeks-atlantic-cup-sailing-win.html
Mike Hennessy is taking time off from
his job as managing director of  capital markets  at Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney LLC for a high-speed jaunt through the
Graveyard of the Atlantic.  Hennessy, 45, is scheduled to steer his 40-foot racing
yacht, “Dragon,” out of Charleston Harbor in  South Carolina  at
6 p.m. local time today in a race against 14 other  Class 40
sailboats  to New York in the first leg of the Atlantic Cup. The
regatta ends in Newport, Rhode Island, on May 27.  In the 640-mile (1,030 kilometer), 80-hour leg to  Manhattan ,
Hennessy and his crew, yacht designer Merfyn Owen, must navigate
the waters of the Graveyard off  North Carolina ’s Cape Hatteras,
where severe weather and shoals have combined to sink hundreds
of ships since the 1500s. Winning the race, in which he placed
second last year, also requires a good finish in a shorthanded
leg up the coast and a crewed inshore regatta off Newport.  “Sailing offers a lot of really great challenges,”
Hennessy, who works for  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in Purchase, New York,
said in a telephone interview. “It requires you to have a
certain ability to manage information flow. You’re dealing with
a tremendous amount of data from the wind, the environment,
navigational choices. It requires a great deal of self-reliance.
And it requires a wide knowledge base to do it safely.”  This year’s Atlantic Cup includes the largest fleet ever
assembled in the U.S. for the Class 40, a boat designed in
 France  in 2005 to make solo and shorthanded ocean racing
accessible to amateur sailors, says Owen, who designed Dragon at
his U.K.-based  Owen Clarke Design LLC .  High Speed  Class 40s retail for about $260,000, with top speeds of
about 20 miles an hour (32 kph).  The other teams include France’s  Halvard Mabire , whose
resume includes five around-the-world and 32 transatlantic races,
and the U.K.’s  Peter Harding , who won the Fastnet Race in 2007
and the Class 40 championship in 2008.  Hennessy and Owen said they like their chances. They won
the double-handed division of the Newport- Bermuda  race in 2010,
and Owen said that sailing together has helped both.  “It’s a good way of transferring knowledge, and I get
feedback coming the other way,” Owen said in a telephone
interview from Charleston. “The whole class was designed for
non-pro sailors. They’re exciting, but not impossible to
handle.”  ‘Push Myself’  Hennessy grew up on the water in  California ,  Rhode Island 
and Connecticut. He rowed in college and enjoyed meandering from
harbor to harbor along the New England coast in a 35-foot yacht.
One summer, he said, he tried the 190-mile  Around Long Island
Regatta  and “decided to start pushing myself a bit harder.” He
got into racing shorthanded by default.  “I started out in fully crewed races, then pretty rapidly
figured out that it’s a lot easier to get ready to race if you
don’t have to find a crew,” Hennessy said.  He sailed alone to Bermuda to see if he liked it, then
raced single- and double-handed for a few years. By 2006, he’d
reached the potential of his racer-cruiser hybrid boat, decided
to commit to distance racing and commissioned the boat from Owen.  Hennessy spent 2008 sailing that around his home port of
Mystic,  Connecticut . By 2009, he was doing local regattas, then
the  Newport-Bermuda race . In 2011, he finished second in both
the  Transatlantic Race  and the  Atlantic Cup .  “I started out very, very carefully,” he said. “It was a
very new experience for me. It was definitely a steep learning
curve, but also a lot of fun.”  Grown to Love  He’s grown to love what initially terrified him about the
boat -- its envelope’s-edge combination of performance, power
and speed.  Hennessy spent weeks prepping the boat in Charleston,
laying in supplies and studying the route. From Charleston, he
and Owen will round  North Carolina’s Outer Banks , pass Norfolk
and  Virginia Beach , and head up the Maryland, Delaware and New
Jersey coasts.  “We’ve got to decide where to enter the  Gulf Stream  and
how close to cut it to Cape Hatteras,” Hennessy said, referring
to the warm Atlantic Ocean current that runs up the East Coast
of the U.S. and  Canada . “If the weather system is going
northwest, the seas get really heavy there.”  Owen said he expects a tactical race with shifting wind
patterns, before a sprint from  New York  to Newport. The inshore
races in Newport will be key, he said. For those, Hennessy has
Chris Museler, who won nine U.S. Sailing championship medals
from 1998 to 2009, prepping the crew.  For now, the two men have to get to New York, taking turns
at the helm, handling the large  square-top mainsail  and even
sleeping and eating. The sprint from just off Ellis Island in
New York Harbor to Fort Adams in Newport  begins May 19 .  “It’s some beautiful sailing and also insanely
challenging,” Hennessy said. “But you always talk about your
bucket list, and it’s pretty cool to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 