-- U.S. Northwest Gasoline Slips on BP Crude Unit Return
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-05-10T22:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/los-angeles-gasoline-advances-to-three-year-high-on-tight-supply.html
Spot gasoline in the U.S. Northwest
slipped against futures after  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Cherry Point refinery in
 Washington  was said to be planning the startup of a crude unit
by early next week.  BP, based in  London , was starting equipment at the 234,000-
barrel-a-day refinery on May 8 after finishing three months of
maintenance when an upset at the crude unit forced it shut
again, said two people, who declined to be identified because
the information isn’t public. The malfunction set back the
company’s startup plan by about four days, and the crude unit is
now scheduled to return May 15, one person said.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland , Oregon, rose
10 cents earlier to 71.5 cents a gallon above futures traded on
the  New York  Mercantile Exchange after BP reported the crude
unit upset. The fuel’s premium then narrowed four cents to 67.5
cents above futures at 4:47 p.m. East Coast time on the planned
startup next week.  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman in Warrenville, Illinois, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone call requesting comment on
the unit’s startup.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in  Los Angeles  jumped
8.5 cents to a premium of 56.5 cents a gallon against futures on
refinery work tightening supply in the market. That’s the
highest level since October 2008 and the largest premium for
this time of year since Bloomberg began keeping records in
November 2007.  Refinery Work  Phillips 66 (COP) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  are
performing work on units at three out of the five refineries in
the San Francisco area. California gasoline inventories dropped
3 percent in the week ended May 4, the state Energy Commission
said yesterday. Non-Carbob supplies, for use outside the state,
tumbled for the fourth straight week to 977,000 barrels.  Gasoline supplies on the U.S. West Coast, known as the PADD
5 region, dropped last week to the lowest level since December
2008 and the smallest amount for this time of year in at least
10 years, Energy Department data showed.  San Francisco Carbob was unchanged at a 62-cent-a-gallon
premium versus futures, the highest level since Bloomberg began
compiling fuel prices there on Nov. 27, 2007. The fuel was
trading as high as 67 cents a gallon above futures earlier
following the upset at the Cherry Point plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  