-- Hotel Puts at Record High as Marriott, Starwood Rally: Options
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/hotel-puts-at-record-high-as-marriott-starwood-rally-options.html
Rallies by the biggest U.S. hotel
operators to the highest levels in more than a year and concern
about American job growth is prompting options traders to pay
record prices to protect against losses.  Puts priced 10 percent below shares of  Marriott
International Inc. (MAR) ,  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  and
 Wyndham Worldwide Corp. (WYN)  cost an average of 1.25 times more than
calls 10 percent above, according to data on three-month options
compiled by Bloomberg. The relationship known as skew reached a
record 1.3 on April 27.  Marriott, Starwood and Wyndham jumped 67 percent on average
since the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s low in October,
propelled by  earnings  that beat analyst projections. Investors
are protecting gains as the  European debt crisis  intensifies and
the slowest job growth in six months undermines confidence in
the  U.S. economy , according to Banyan Partners LLC.  “The leisure industry is being affected by concerns about
 Europe  and the weaker U.S. jobs report, which have the potential
to negatively affect  consumer spending  and reduce the
discretionary income used on travel,”  Robert Pavlik , who helps
manage about $1.3 billion as chief market strategist at Banyan
Partners in New York, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“A lot of people are exploring the possibility of putting on
short- to intermediate-term hedges through either buying puts or
selling calls.”  Margo Happer, a Wyndham spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the options trading. Jennifer Centrone, a spokeswoman for
Starwood, and Marriott’s Thomas Marder didn’t return phone calls
and e-mail messages seeking comment.  Last Week’s Drop  The hotel operators dropped last week from their highest
levels in more than a year as the  S&P 500  posted its biggest
weekly drop of 2012 after data on the American and European
labor markets boosted concern the global economy is weakening.
U.S. payrolls increased less than economists projected in a
Bloomberg survey, and unemployment in the  euro zone  rose to a
15-year high.  Marriott, the largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain,
surged the most since November on April 19 after raising its
forecasts for 2012 profit amid greater business-group demand.
Starwood, owner of the luxury St. Regis and W brands, jumped to
an almost one-year high on May 2, less than a week after sales
of vacation units at a new resort in south Florida drove a more
than fourfold increase in first-quarter income.  Wyndham, the franchiser of Days Inn hotels and Super 8
motels, jumped to a record on May 3 after earnings beat
estimates a week earlier.  Locking in Gains  “You might find that people are looking to maybe take some
profits or lock in some of the gains,” Chris Agnew, an analyst
at MKM Partners LLC, said in a phone interview yesterday. He
recommends investing in all three companies. “They’re names
that people definitely want to own, and people might just be
hedging in case there’s some volatility this summer. You may
just want to say, ‘Look, if we get a repeat of last summer, I
want to protect myself, but I want to stay long the stock.’”  Marriott tumbled 6.6 percent, the most in two years, on
July 14 after reporting room revenue that trailed industry
growth and saying timeshare sales declined. The shares fell to a
19-month low in September, while Starwood reached an almost 20-
month low in October. Wyndham touched its lowest price in 11
months last August as the  S&P 500 (SPX)  sank after Moody’s Investors
Service cut  Portugal  and Ireland’s credit ratings to junk levels
and the U.S. government struggled to avert a default.  U.S. Growth  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 2.2 percent
annual rate in the first quarter after a 3 percent pace in the
prior three months, Commerce Department figures show.
Occupancies this year through March at luxury hotels in the U.S.
climbed to 71 percent from 68 percent a year earlier, according
to Smith Travel Research Inc. of Hendersonville,  Tennessee . That
compares to an increase to 65 percent from 63 percent among all
hotel types in the top 25 U.S. markets.  “Lodging stocks are impacted by the U.S. economy where
most people continue to see tepid growth, but enough to create
positive demand,” Smedes Rose, an analyst at Keefe Bruyette &
Woods Inc. in New York, said yesterday in a phone interview.
“We’re getting healthy and stabilized occupancy levels, which
should drive incremental pricing power. Once you know the demand
is there, you’re more willing to raise rates.”  Rose has an outperform rating on Marriott and Starwood,
meaning he expects their shares to return about 15 percent. He
doesn’t cover Wyndham.  VIX, VStoxx  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known
as the  VIX (VIX) , gained 5.4 percent to 20.08 yesterday. Europe’s
VStoxx Index, a measure of Euro Stoxx 50 Index option prices,
declined 0.4 percent to 31.21.  Marriott’s July $36 puts, priced 8.1 percent below
yesterday’s close, were the  most-owned  among all of the
company’s contracts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Wyndham’s options betting on a 15 percent decline to $43 by
August had the biggest open interest among all of its bearish
contracts.  Bearish options volume for Starwood rose yesterday to six
times the four-week average and was double call trading. A block
of 3,900 June $55 puts  changed  hands at the ask price, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. January $45 puts, priced 21 percent
below yesterday’s close, and May $52.50 puts had the largest
open interest.  “With the market uncertainty of recent, perhaps the pickup
in put volume in Starwood is justified as the hotel stocks have
had a nice run this year,” Lillian Seidman-Davis, an options
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York , said in an
interview yesterday. “It seems like a smart bet for clients to
consider protecting gains.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  