-- House Votes to Raise Export-Import Bank’s Lending Cap 40%
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-05-10T00:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/house-votes-to-raise-export-import-bank-s-lending-cap-40-.html
The U.S. House passed legislation to
increase the Export-Import Bank’s lending authority 40 percent
by 2014, boosting President  Barack Obama ’s efforts to create
manufacturing jobs by doubling exports in the next two years.  The measure, passed on a 330-93 vote, will go to the
Democratic-controlled Senate, where Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said he plans to seek quick action on the measure. The
legislation was  supported  by 183 Democrats and 147 Republicans.
Republicans cast all 93 votes against the measure.  Without action by Congress, the Export-Import Bank will
reach its $100 billion lending cap by month’s end. The measure,
H.R. 2072, would raise the lending limit to $120 billion this
year, to $130 billion in 2013 and to $140 billion by the end of
the 2014 fiscal year.  Voicing concerns of many fellow Republicans, Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor  said he was “no fan of government
subsidies” because “export subsidies distort the free market
and global trade.” The Virginia lawmaker said that “in a
perfect world, the Export-Import Bank” and its overseas
counterparts “would not exist.”  Still, Cantor said closing the Export-Import Bank “amounts
to unilateral disarmament” that would hurt U.S. businesses and
workers.  Some Republicans call the Export-Import Bank a form of
corporate welfare that distorts the market by giving loan
subsidies to customers of exporters such as  Boeing Co. (BA) , based in
 Chicago .  ‘Dragoons’ Taxpayers  California Republican Tom McClintock, the sole speaker
against the bill during floor debate, said the bank “dragoons
American taxpayers into subsidizing loans to foreign companies
by making it cheaper for them to buy products from politically
favored American companies.”  Since 2007 almost half of the bank’s loan guarantees helped
“that plucky little upstart called Boeing,” McClintock said.
“Legitimate companies have plenty of access to private capital.
They don’t need these subsidies, and the illegitimate ones
should not be propped up with the hard-earned dollars of
working, taxpaying Americans.”  Two groups that support smaller government and lower taxes,
 Heritage Action  and the  Club for Growth , urged lawmakers to
oppose the measure and said their vote on the issue would affect
their legislative rating.  Favorable Terms  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , which has sued the Export-Import Bank
over its lending practices, won a concession in the measure
requiring the Treasury secretary to start negotiations with
other governments to end aircraft export subsidies.  The company called the measure “a good first step toward
much-needed reforms” of the bank, according to an e-mailed
statement.  “We look forward to working with Congress and the
Administration on continued Ex-Im reforms that further reduce --
and, ultimately, eliminate -- the unintended harmful
consequences of its presence in the market,” Trebor Banstetter,
a Delta spokesman, said in the statement.  Delta, based in Atlanta, says non-U.S. carriers have
received favorable credit terms to purchase wide-bodied jets
from Boeing, thereby putting Delta at a competitive
disadvantage.  Manufacturers such as Boeing support the measure along with
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the  National Association of
Manufacturers .  ‘Absolute Disaster’  Washington Democrat  Norm Dicks , long a supporter of Boeing,
said not renewing the bank’s lending authority would be “an
absolute disaster for the economy.”  Quoting from the bank’s annual report, Dicks said it
financed $32.7 billion worth of exports in 2011, supporting
288,000 U.S. jobs.  The compromise bill, negotiated by Cantor and second-
ranking House Democrat Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , also would bar
the bank from making loans that would rank behind those of other
creditors in a bankruptcy filing. That stems from a $10.3
million loan guarantee to the failed solar-panel maker Solyndra
LLC.  In a statement,  Fred Hochberg , the bank’s chairman, said
the legislation “provides much-needed certainty and
predictability to U.S. exporters and their workers.”  The legislation will help advance “a key component” of
Obama’s initiative “aimed at doubling exports,” Hochberg said.
U.S. exports reached a record $2.1 trillion last year, a 34
percent increase from 2009, Hochberg said.  Senate Support  New York  Senator  Charles Schumer , the third-ranking
Democrat, predicted yesterday there would be “broad support”
in the Senate.  A group of 25 Republican senators, led by  South Carolina 
Senator Lindsey Graham, also have voiced support for
reauthorizing the bank in a March 26 letter.  Still,  Jim DeMint , South Carolina’s other Republican
senator, said in an interview that he will demand floor debate
on the measure and may offer an amendment to phase out the bank.  “There needs to be a phase-out or a sunset, and there
needs to be some real reforms,” DeMint said in an interview. He
said he was disappointed the House measure doesn’t require an
analysis of the bank’s effect on U.S. jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  