-- House Panel Backs $554 Billion Defense Bill Defying Obama
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-05-10T12:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/house-panel-bacsk-554-billion-defense-bill-defying-obama.html
The U.S. House Armed Services
Committee approved a $554 billion defense bill, refashioning a
spending plan that Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said should be
passed without change.  The defense authorization measure, agreed to early today by
a vote of 56-5, is about $4 billion more than President  Barack
Obama ’s administration said could be spent for fiscal 2013 to
stay within deficit-reduction targets.  The committee reversed Pentagon proposals to curtail or
slow weapons programs, including  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ’s Global
Hawk drone and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Abrams battle tanks as
well as Virginia-class submarines built by  Huntington Ingalls
Industries Inc. (HII)  and the Electric Boat unit of General Dynamics.  Acting hours after Obama said in an interview that he now
supports same-sex marriage, the Republican-led committee adopted
a provision to block such marriages and “marriage-like”
ceremonies on military bases. Last year, Obama ended the “don’t
ask, don’t tell” policy that barred openly gay men and lesbians
from serving in the military.  The defense legislation, which the full House will consider
as soon as next week, also seeks to slow the pace of military
personnel reductions and blocks new rounds of military base
closings in the U.S.  ‘Deserve the Best’  “Our troops deserve the best training, equipment, and
leadership in the world, and I’m proud that our members
consistently put aside personal politics to fulfill that sacred
obligation to our armed forces,” Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, the California Republican who leads the panel,
said in a statement. McKeon called the bill “an incremental
step to address the military’s $46 billion decrease” from
previous defense budget plans.  Additionally, the House panel approved $88.5 billion -- the
amount requested -- for war operations in  Afghanistan  and
elsewhere.  The Pentagon plans to cut $487 billion over a decade from
previously planned defense spending and may face an additional
$500 billion in automatic cuts if Congress and the president
don’t agree on ways to reduce the nation’s  deficit .  While the panel endorsed the Pentagon’s request to buy 29
F-35 stealth jets made by Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , it is also pressing the Defense Department to
disclose by Dec. 31 the date by which it expects the three
versions of the fighter planes to become operational. The
Pentagon requested $9.1 billion for the F-35, its most expensive
program, including $6.1 billion for procurement.  New Long-Range Bomber  The panel backed the full budget request of $292 million
for research and development of a new long-range strike bomber,
attaching a provision pressing the  Air Force  to ensure that the
plane can carry nuclear weapons as soon as it is operational.  The Air Force plans to spend $6.3 billion through 2017 on
developing the bomber, the first since Northrop Grumman was
awarded the contract for the B-2 in 1981.  The defense panel overrode Army plans to suspend production
of upgraded Abrams tanks built by Falls Church, Virginia-based
General Dynamics. The committee added $181 million to the Army’s
budget, for a total of $255.4 million, to keep building the
tanks and converting them into the latest M1A2 model at the
plant in  Lima ,  Ohio .  Global Hawk  The committee’s measure also would block the Pentagon’s
plan to retire one version of the Global Hawk drone by Northrop
Grumman, also based in  Falls Church , Virginia, and require that
the secretary of the Air Force take “all actions necessary” to
keep the so-called Global Hawk Block 30 operating through 2014.  The Pentagon proposed truncating purchases of the Global
Hawk variant and putting the drones it had already bought into
storage. Air Force officials said those drones are more
expensive to operate and have less sensing capacity than
Lockheed Martin’s older U-2 spy planes. The Defense Department
has projected savings of $2.5 billion over five years from
cutting short the Block 30 version.  The House panel would authorize an additional $263 million,
for a total of $338.3 million, to fund continued operations of
the Block 30 drones. The Air Force spent $3.4 billion on the
development and procurement of the 18 aircraft, according to Air
Force spokeswoman Jennifer Cassidy.  Virginia-Class Submarines  The Armed Services Committee backed the production of two
Virginia-class submarines in 2014 that the Navy struck from
fiscal 2014 plans. The panel recommended adding a down payment,
or “advance procurement,” of materials and added $778 million
for that purpose.  The Navy originally planned to buy two Virginia-class
submarines a year, with the work split between Huntington
Ingalls, based in  Newport News ,  Virginia , and Groton,
Connecticut-based Electric Boat. Instead, the Pentagon now
proposes buying one in fiscal 2014 and delaying another until
fiscal 2018.  Israel’s Iron Dome missile-defense system also stands to
gain as much as $680 million in U.S. aid through 2015 under the
committee’s legislation for the system built by Rafael Advanced
Defense Systems Ltd.  Some provisions added by the House committee may become
items for negotiation with the Senate. The Senate Armed Services
Committee is scheduled to start considering its version of the
defense authorization bill on May 22.  The $554 billion in national defense funding includes
budget authorization for military construction and Energy
Department defense programs.  The bill is H.R. 4310.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  