-- House Votes to Cut Food Stamps to Avoid Defense Reduction
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-05-10T20:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/house-votes-to-cut-food-stamps-to-avoid-defense-reduction.html
The U.S. House voted to cut food
stamps, federal workers’ benefits and other domestic programs to
avoid scheduled reductions in defense spending.  The chamber today passed, 218-199, a plan to cut about $310
billion in spending to replace automatic defense-spending
reductions that lawmakers in both parties agree shouldn’t be
allowed to take effect in January.  “This plan ensures that we maintain our fiscal discipline
and commitment to reducing out-of-control  government spending ,
while making sure our top priority is national security,” said
House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican.  Democrats lined up against the measure, H.R. 5652, saying
it would put too much of the deficit burden on the needy. The
proposal goes to the Democratic-controlled Senate, where it is
doomed to failure.  The Republican plan is one that “asks nothing of Mr.
Exxon, that asks nothing more of hedge fund managers, but asks
those who are most vulnerable in our society to share more
pain,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat.  No Democrats supported the plan; 16 Republicans opposed it.  The automatic spending reductions set to begin in January
are triggered by the so-called supercommittee’s failure last
year to come up with a plan to reduce the $1.2 trillion federal
 budget deficit . About $55 billion would be subtracted next year
from the Pentagon  budget , with an equal amount coming from non-
defense programs.  Panetta Response  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  told reporters today he
opposes the House measure even though it sought to protect
defense spending, because “it’s not balanced, it’s not fair and
ultimately the Senate isn’t going to accept it either.”  The plan faces a veto threat from President  Barack Obama .
Still, it offers a preview of what Republicans may seek after
the November election, when lawmakers will consider in earnest
whether to replace the automatic cuts with a new plan.  It also represents a political risk for Republicans. While
they say voters will reward them for making tough budget
choices, their plan is opposed by many groups. Among them are
AARP, the advocacy group for older Americans; the U.S.
Conference of Catholic Bishops, which opposes reductions in aid
to the poor; the National Council of La Raza, which criticized
the plan’s effect on illegal immigrants; and the National
Treasury Employees Union, representing federal workers.  Minimum Tax  House Democrats  offered an alternative that relies mostly
on tax increases, including imposing a minimum tax on
millionaires. The proposal would curb business-related tax
breaks, cut farm subsidies and raise premiums for the
government’s flood-insurance program.  House Republicans  refused
to allow a vote on the Democratic plan.  “Apparently our Republican colleagues are kind of worried
about what we were going to propose,” said Representative  Chris Van Hollen , the top Democrat on the House Budget Committee.
“Let’s ask people who are making over $1 million a year to get
rid of some of their tax breaks, to help pay for our common
defense so we don’t have to have a budget that whacks everyone
else.”  The Republicans’ plan would reduce spending by about $310
billion over a decade, according to the nonpartisan
 Congressional Budget Office . It would cut off  food stamps  to 1.8
million Americans, according to CBO, while reducing aid to
millions more. About 280,000 children who receive food stamps
would no longer be automatically eligible for free school
lunches, CBO said.  Medicaid Enrollment  The measure would make it easier for state governments to
cut enrollment in Medicaid, the health care program for the
poor, and eliminate Social Services Block Grants, which fund
programs such as “Meals on Wheels.”  It would make it tougher for illegal immigrants to claim a
 child tax credit  and would require federal workers to pay more
for their pensions, which CBO has said are more generous than
private-sector retirement benefits.  Other provisions would reduce funding for the
administration’s Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, tighten
medical malpractice laws and reduce Medicaid payments to  Puerto
Rico  and other U.S. territories. It would allow some elements of
the scheduled cuts to take effect, including a 2 percent
reduction in Medicare spending.  Republicans say difficult choices are necessary and that
many of the cuts are designed to clamp down on waste. They say
some state governments have stretched the rules and allowed too
many people to collect food stamps.  State Governments  State governments “wanted to try to make as many federal
dollars as available to as many people as possible,” said
Agriculture Committee Chairman  Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma
Republican.  Democrats “would have you believe that we’re decimating
the nutritional safety net and that hungry children and seniors
will be left to fend for themselves,” he said. That’s a “scare
tactic,” said Lucas, who said the changes would close “program
loopholes.”  The cuts drew a sharp critique from Representative Joe Baca, a California Democrat who said he once relied on food
stamps.  “This package literally takes food off the table for
millions of disadvantaged Americans,” Baca said. “Unless
you’ve been in that situation, you don’t know what it’s like.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  