-- How Unhip Amazon Can Walk the Fashion Runway
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2012-05-10T23:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/how-dowdy-amazon-can-walk-the-fashion-runway.html
When I caught  Jeff Bezos ’s eye at the
press preview for the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art’s new  Costume
Institute exhibit , which Amazon.com Inc. sponsored, his face
burst into an enormous smile. I’d like to think this was because
the Amazon chief executive officer likes me so much. (We see
each other socially on rare occasions.)  But I suspect he was mostly glad to see anyone he
recognized. We were probably the only two people in the room who
could tell you who  Linus Torvalds  is, or  Myron Scholes : two
nerds, however grown-up and pulled together, in a crowd of
fashionistas.  Amazon is an unlikely sponsor for a Costume Institute
event, and Bezos an exceedingly unlikely fashion advocate.
“Before we got involved, this event wasn’t on my radar at all,”
he said of the museum’s celebrity-filled annual gala.  But his company is trying to get into  high-end fashion
retailing , and sponsoring the Met exhibit and the fashion
world’s party of the year is a good way to get attention. If
nothing else, it gets Bezos and Vogue Editor-in-Chief  Anna Wintour  speaking on a first-name basis.  A cultural gap remains, however. “It could never be cool to
shop for fashion at Amazon.com. Geek cooties will come attached
to your clothes,” an early commenter said about Monday’s  New
York Times story  on Amazon’s foray into fine fashion. Another
wrote, “Do you want to be cool or pay the lowest price? Your
decision.” The Times story ended with a jab at Bezos for not
knowing the brand of his own shirt or shoes -- and for letting a
tacky ID badge dangle from his Prada jeans.  Fashion Already Online  Net-a-Porter  has already demonstrated that you don’t have
to be a flash-sale site to sell high fashion online. So have the
websites of department stores such as  Neiman Marcus  and  Saks
Fifth Avenue . In the specialized vintage market, so has  1stDibs .
The problems of presentation and fit can be overcome.  The real question is the cultural one: How can a middle-
brow company like Amazon become a credible source of fashion
rather than merely apparel? Here are a few ideas the company
might consider:  1) Emphasize that you are providing a large market, rather
than a mass market.  Mass markets spread the fixed cost of producing the same
good over a lot of different buyers. They tend toward
homogeneity and one-size-fits-all products. Large markets simply
have a lot of people in them. A large population can transform a
formerly unprofitable niche into a profitable market. The bigger
the market, the more varied the goods. That’s why you find more
variety in New York than in  Kansas City .  The big advantage an online retailer like Amazon offers a
fashion house is the chance to bring together all the potential
customers scattered outside the largest cities. At the pricey
end, at least, Amazon is not looking for a mass market. It is
creating a large one -- making room for many more niche brands
and potentially for a given brand’s full line of styles. Success
doesn’t depend on dumbing down fashion. And selection, not low
prices, is the killer app.  2) Don’t be Macy’s when you can be Bloomingdale’s.  Macy’s Inc. owns both department stores, but Bloomingdale’s
Inc. carries more expensive, exclusive fashion brands. Amazon’s
primary site competes with middle-market Macy’s. It needs a
different brand to compete with Bloomingdale’s. That could be
MyHabit, its existing upscale flash-sale site, or it could be
something new.  Local Partnerships  3) Extend fashion-oriented philanthropy outside  New York .  The Costume Institute gala is a huge, high-profile event --
a great way of attracting one-time attention. To sustain the
fashion connection at a fraction of the cost, consider similar
partnerships with regional museums that have strong fashion
collections, such as the  Phoenix Art Museum  or the  Kent State
University Museum , or with schools of fashion design,
particularly those in regional markets, such as the  Savannah
College of Art and Design  or the  Columbus College of Art and
Design . Finding regional partners would reinforce the “large
market” strategy, positioning Amazon as a place to find styles
not otherwise available locally.  4) Provide an outlet for emerging talent.  The true test of a fashion authority, whether a magazine
editor, a boutique owner or a stylist, is the ability to spot
important designers before they are famous. Amazon could invest
in hiring established talent spotters as in-house authorities.
But that isn’t necessary, because the company offers something
every aspiring designer craves: distribution. All it needs is a
partner with the right eye.  One possibility is  Franca Sozzani , the innovative editor of
Vogue Italia. Speaking last Friday at the Museum at the Fashion
Institute of Technology in New York, she returned again and
again to the need to identify and nurture new design talent. The
magazine’s  Vogue Talents website  is a showcase for aspiring
designers, and its annual contest not only recognizes and
publicizes young designers. It also helps them build careers by
connecting them with fashion-house jobs and distribution
channels, including  Yoox  and  QVC .  With the nonprofit  Fashion4Development , Sozzani is also
nurturing about 20 promising new African designers. The first
task was identifying them, but now, she said, “we have to find
distribution for all of them,” so they can create lasting
enterprises rather than one-time collections. “I don’t want to
do charity,” she said. This project, too, has distribution deals
with Yoox and QVC, as well as the Italian retailer  OVS . Why not
Amazon?  Fashion people like to believe that their field represents
values such as creativity, beauty, self-expression and craft.
And it does. But fashion is also a vehicle for making fine
distinctions between insiders and outsiders, the cool and the
uncool. If Amazon wants to succeed in the high-fashion business,
it needs a way in that doesn’t depend on the decidedly uncool
strategy of just cutting prices -- but also doesn’t demand a
chief executive who speaks fluent fashionista. Fortunately, it
has plenty of potential partners who are cultural natives.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  solving Europe’s
employment woes  and the  futures of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac ;
Stephen L. Carter on the  overuse of the word “emergency” ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  Chinese banks ;  Jonathan Alter  on  human capital
and venture capital ; Tom Valasek on  Ukrainian politics and
soccer ; Gerald M. Rafshoon on  Mitt Romney and Jimmy Carter.   To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  