-- Toyota Tops GM in Global Auto Sales in First Quarter
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-05-10T23:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/toyota-tops-gm-in-global-vehicle-sales-in-year-s-first-quarter.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
largest automaker from 2008 to 2010, sold the most cars and
trucks in the world in the first three months of the year as it
made up for production lost to natural disasters in Asia.  Sales of Toyota,  Lexus , Scion, Hino and Daihatsu models
rose 18 percent to 2.49 million in the quarter, the company said
in a U.S. regulatory filing. That puts the Toyota City, Japan-
based automaker ahead of Detroit-based  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s 2.28
million and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s 2.16 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “They have a new sense of competitiveness and they
certainly are bringing their volume back,” said  Jeff Schuster ,
senior vice president of forecasting for LMC Automotive in Troy,
 Michigan . “They have some new product around the world that’s
helping, with the new Camry and the Prius family.”  Toyota became the world’s largest automaker by unit sales
in 2008, as the U.S. market collapsed and GM slid toward its
2009 bankruptcy. GM regained global leadership last year and
Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW jumped to second place as Toyota’s
output was limited after the March earthquake in Japan and later
flooding in Thailand.  “Although being No. 1 is not the main goal for us, it’s
nice to see because hopefully it shows we’re on the right
track,” said Jim Wiseman, Toyota’s North American vice
president of external affairs. “With customers reacting so
positively to all of the new and updated products we’re
introducing this year, we’re optimistic the good momentum will
continue.”  Upbeat Forecast  Both Toyota and GM have come a long way,  Jim Cain , a GM
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “We’re making progress on our plan for profitable growth
and we’re seeing strong sales of our newest products, especially
at  Chevrolet , which has been the fastest-growing global brand
for the last two calendar years,” Cain said.  Toyota this week forecast its profit to more than double to
a five-year high as the company rebounds from last year’s
natural disasters and introduces new models to regain market
share.  The maker of Corolla small cars said this week that
deliveries, including those of subsidiaries  Daihatsu Motor Co. (7262) 
and  Hino Motors Ltd. (7205) , will grow 18 percent to 8.7 million
vehicles in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013.  Sales in  North America  will lead the increase, climbing 26
percent to 2.35 million units, Toyota said. Deliveries in Japan
will rise 6.2 percent, 34 percent in the rest of Asia and 10
percent in Europe, according to Toyota.  Toyota’s U.S. Sales  Through April, Toyota’s sales in the U.S. expanded 12
percent to 665,328 vehicles, faster than the industry’s 10
percent increase, according to researcher Autodata Corp. in
Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey.  The company’s U.S. pace may slow because it had higher-
than-usual fleet sales in 2012’s first few months, Schuster
said. Fleet sales accounted for about 20 percent of the
company’s U.S. sales, up from a normal 10 percent, he said. Such
sales are typically less profitable compared with sales to
individual consumers.  “We do expect a pullback in volume and share at least here
in the U.S. because of less fleet volume,” Schuster  Globally, Toyota, GM and VW will remain locked in a tight
race for the sales lead, he said.  “You still have a very aggressive target for Volkswagen
this year and in the coming years,” Schuster said. “It’s going
to be most likely this back and forth dogfight over volume
leadership globally.”  Toyota’s American depositary receipts fell 1 percent to
$79.73 at the close yesterday in  New York . They’ve risen 21
percent this year. GM fell 0.3 percent to $22.37 in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  