-- Pfizer’s Quigley Still Seeks to Reorganize, Lawyer Says
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-05-10T15:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/pfizer-s-quigley-still-seeks-to-reorganize-lawyer-says-1-.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s bankrupt Quigley Co.
unit will continue its eight-year bankruptcy, and seeks to
challenge a federal appeals court ruling, a Pfizer lawyer said.  Jay Goffman told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart Bernstein in
 Manhattan  court today that Pfizer may challenge a higher court’s
ruling in April that found Pfizer isn’t entitled to protection
from some asbestos claims related to Quigley.  Pfizer also plans to proceed with Quigley’s bankruptcy, and
seeks to have it exit court protection in September.  “We think they got it wrong,” Goffman said of the April
appeals court ruling, adding that Pfizer may bring a challenge
to the U.S. Supreme Court.  Quigley, founded in 1916, made three products for the  steel
industry  from the 1940s to the 1970s that contained asbestos.
Pfizer bought Quigley in 1968, and the company stopped most
operations in 1992, filing for bankruptcy in 2004. Pfizer has
said it never made or sold any Quigley products, and some
claimants hadn’t released Pfizer from alleged “derivative
liability.”  Bernstein had ruled in  bankruptcy court  that Quigley’s
Chapter 11 case barred certain lawsuits against Pfizer. A May
2011 decision in district court reversed the order, and Pfizer
had appealed that ruling.  “We affirm the district court,” three judges said in
April’s ruling that upheld the May decision. In doing so, they
found that the law firm Peter G. Angelos can sue Pfizer based on
manufacturer liability under Pennsylvania law.  1999 Lawsuits  Angelos began bringing lawsuits against Pfizer in 1999,
saying that because the drug company’s logo appeared on Quigley
products, it should have liability for the asbestos-containing
products.  Goffman also told Bernstein today that Quigley plans to
file a Chapter 11 plan by the end of the month that is based on
terms with creditors it has already negotiated.  Lawyers for creditors as well as the U.S. Trustee, an arm
of the  Justice Department  that oversees bankruptcies, said they
would object to any plan that was the same as the old one.  “We don’t want a do-over of what happened last time,”
said Greg Zipes, a lawyer for the U.S. Trustee.  The U.S. Trustee, an arm of the Justice Department, had
asked the bankruptcy court to end Quigley’s Chapter 11, citing
the fact that creditors alleging asbestos-related health issues
have been unable to sue New York-based Pfizer during the case,
and many of them have died.  Manipulated Process  Bernstein had said that Pfizer had manipulated the
bankruptcy process, and refused to allow Quigley to exit Chapter
11 court protection under a deal with Pfizer.  During Quigley’s bankruptcy, a committee of creditors known
as the “Ad Hoc Committee of Tort Victims” also asked in
October 2010 to have Quigley’s bankruptcy dismissed so it could
bring tort claims, which are otherwise blocked by bankruptcy
law.  Asbestos claims against Quigley may total $4.45 billion
during the next 42 years, according to testimony cited by
Bernstein in September. In November, Pfizer reported a $701
million third-quarter charge for asbestos litigation related to
Quigley.  The case is In re Quigley Co., 04-15739,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The appeals
case is 11-2635, 11-2767, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  