-- Philippine Bonds Rise After Surprise Drop in Exports; Peso Gains
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-05-10T08:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/philippine-bonds-rise-peso-weakens-after-surprise-exports-drop.html
Philippine bonds rose as official
data showed exports unexpectedly fell in March and first-quarter
rice production declined. The peso strengthened.  Overseas sales  dropped 1.2 percent from a year earlier to
$4.3 billion, the  National Statistics Office  in Manila said
today. The median of eight estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 10 percent gain. The central bank will consider the
export data at its June 14 meeting and see if there’s a need to
adjust its policy stance, Governor Amando Tetangco said in a
mobile-phone message. Rough-rice output fell 1 percent last
quarter, Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala said today.  “A confluence of factors seem to point to the central bank
keeping rates low, at current levels, for a while,” said Bunny Bernardo-Recto, vice president at Chinatrust Philippines
Commercial Bank Corp. in Manila. “The Europe turmoil is back in
the picture again,  oil prices  have dropped and exports are
weak.”  The yield on the 8 percent July 2031 peso bond fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.94 percent as of
4:23 p.m. in  Manila , declining for the first time in six days,
according to Tradition Financial Services. The peso closed 0.1
percent stronger at 42.385 per dollar after falling as much as
0.2 percent earlier, Tullett Prebon Plc data showed.  One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, rose 50 basis points to 5.50
percent. Oil traded near the lowest level in more than three
months.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept its  benchmark overnight 
borrowing rate at a record low 4 percent last month after two
rate cuts this year.  Exports will improve this year and the March data showed
growth from the previous month, central bank Deputy Governor
Diwa Guinigundo said in a mobile-phone message. Overseas sales
and farm output make up more than 30 percent of the $200 billion
Southeast Asian economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  