-- Profiles in Courage, the Jimmy Carter Edition
-- B y   G e r a l d   R a f s h o o n
-- 2012-05-10T23:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/profiles-in-courage-the-jimmy-carter-edition.html
I’m fairly sure that  Jimmy Carter  is
the bravest man I know. I’m absolutely sure that he’s the
bravest politician.  When it comes to courage, Carter’s polar opposite is  Mitt Romney . Scour Romney’s record for a single example of real
political courage -- a single, solitary instance, however small,
where Romney placed principle or substance above his own short-
term political interests. Let me know if you find one.  “Even Jimmy Carter would have given that order,” Romney
 sneered recently , belittling President  Barack Obama ’s role in
the raid that killed  Osama bin Laden .  Would have given? No, Mr. Romney. Gave. Jimmy Carter gave
that order -- 32 years ago.  Everything you can say in praise of Obama’s courage in
ordering  Operation Neptune Spear , as the Navy Seal raid on bin
Laden was code-named -- and Obama deserves plenty of praise --
goes double for Carter’s courage in ordering Operation Eagle
Claw, the Delta Force mission to rescue the American hostages in
 Iran  on April 24, 1980.  Both were highly secret, elite commando operations deep
inside less-than-friendly territory at a time of tension between
the U.S. and Islamist extremism. Both were painstakingly
designed and rehearsed to achieve a difficult and long-sought
goal in a surgical manner, with as little “collateral damage” to
innocent civilians as possible. In both cases, the commander-in-
chief gave the green light despite dissent within his inner
circle of advisers. In neither case was there any guarantee of
success -- or even a better-than-even chance.  Operation Eagle Claw  The Iran mission was actually riskier. Snatching 52
imprisoned Americans alive from a guarded building in the middle
of a hostile nation’s teeming capital city is a taller order
than killing one man in a residential suburban compound in a
country controlled by a nominally allied, if untrustworthy,
government.  But the biggest difference, of course, is that while
Neptune Spear was a resounding success, Eagle Claw was a
failure. When a sandstorm disabled three of the eight
helicopters, the Delta Force commander asked for permission to
abort, evacuate and try again another day. Carter agreed. Then,
as the evacuation proceeded, a helicopter and a transport plane
collided, leaving eight servicemen dead in the wreckage, blowing
our cover and preventing a second attempt.  You can say Carter and the Delta Force were unlucky. You
can’t say they weren’t brave and daring, any more than you can
say that about Obama and the Seals.  But Eagle Claw wasn’t the only example of Carter’s courage
as president. Here are three others, among many:  Camp David. The 1978 summit and subsequent shuttle
diplomacy between  Israel  and  Egypt  culminated in the only Middle
East peace treaty to stand the test of time. When Carter was
considering the summit and even after he announced it, just
about every foreign-policy guru,  Henry Kissinger  included,
counseled against it. The “wise men” warned that a head of state
should never go into a negotiation without knowing the outcome
in advance. Carter rejected that advice -- and did more to
further the security of Israel than any U.S. president before or
since.  The  Panama  Canal. Although it had long been known that the
Canal Zone would have to be transferred to Panama once the
original lease expired, presidents from  John F. Kennedy  to
 Gerald Ford  had seen this as a politically toxic problem to be
tackled in a second term -- or left to a successor. Carter knew
that failing to resolve it promptly could precipitate chaos and
armed conflict in Central America. He put his prestige on the
line, recruited bipartisan support for a new treaty and, with
the help of Senator  Howard Baker , the Republican Minority
Leader, mustered the necessary two-thirds vote for Senate
ratification.  ( Ronald Reagan  charged that “giving away” the canal would
threaten U.S. national security, but once he was president, he
did nothing about it. Apparently the threat was not so serious,
after all.)  Hitting the Kremlin  Soviet aggression. When the  Soviet Union  invaded
 Afghanistan , Carter imposed a grain embargo, alienating corn
growers on the eve of the Iowa caucuses. He also boycotted the
Moscow Olympics, upsetting millions of sports fans and angering
a major television network. These steps were politically costly.
But they hit the Kremlin where it hurt and, in tandem with
Carter’s human-rights drive and his aid to the Afghan
resistance, they pushed Soviet communism toward eventual
collapse.  The list goes on. Carter blocked many unnecessary armaments
boondoggles, including a superfluous, wildly costly nuclear
aircraft-carrier program. He appointed  Paul Volcker  to the
Federal Reserve chairmanship, knowing full well that while
Volcker’s fiscal policies would conquer inflation, the short-
term economic pain they entailed would damage Carter’s chances
for re-election. He defied the oil lobby to push through a
comprehensive energy program that -- had it not been gutted by
his successor -- would have cut oil imports from the  Middle East 
almost to zero by the start of the new century.  Like all presidents, Carter sometimes compromised,
sometimes made tactical retreats, sometimes horse-traded. But
when the chips were down, he did what was right for the
country’s future, regardless of the consequences for himself.  Romney has shown no such conviction, no such courage and no
such strength. His campaign has been an exercise in feeble
appeasement. The only thing he appears to be dedicated to is
abasing himself to the hard-right wing of the  Republican Party .
Consider the way he allowed a foreign-policy spokesman to be
drummed out of the campaign simply for being gay.  Carter recently said that although he supports Obama for
re-election, he would be “comfortable” with Romney in the White
House.  Sorry, Mr. President, I disagree with you. (It has happened
before.) Romney flunks the character test. He seems incapable of
making the hard, sometimes unpopular, choices that are part of
the job.  (Gerald Rafshoon, a film and television producer, was White
House communications director for President Jimmy Carter. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  solving Europe’s
employment woes  and the  futures of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac ;
Stephen L. Carter on the  overuse of the word “emergency” ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  Chinese banks ; Virginia Postrel on  Amazon’s
move into high fashion ;  Jonathan Alter  on  human capital and
venture capital ; Tom Valasek on  Ukrainian politics and soccer .  To contact the writer of this article:
Gerald Rafshoon at  geraldrafshoon@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  