-- Putin’s Obama Snub Signals Harder Russian Policy as Reset Fades
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-05-10T17:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/putin-s-obama-snub-signals-harder-russian-policy-as-reset-fades.html
President  Vladimir Putin ’s decision
to skip this month’s Group of Eight summit in America signals
Russian foreign policy is hardening as a “reset” in relations
with the U.S. fades, analysts from Moscow to  Washington  said.  Putin told President  Barack Obama  in a telephone call
yesterday that Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  will take his
place at the May 18-19 gathering, the White House said in a
statement. His first foreign visits after reclaiming the
presidency for a third term will be to Mexico,  China  and  Brazil .  The Russian leader was inaugurated May 7 as his country and
the U.S. lock horns over missile defense, the future of Syrian
leader Bashar al-Assad and Iran’s nuclear ambitions. Putin
ratcheted up anti-American rhetoric in the run-up to his
election victory, while the U.S. has voiced concern at the
detentions of demonstrators who oppose his 12-year rule.  “There will probably be raised eyebrows in Washington,”
Lilit Gevorgyan, a Russia analyst at IHS Global Insight in
 London , said today by phone. “His refusal may be taken as a
sign that Russia under Putin will indeed be more inward looking
and favor a tougher foreign policy.”  Russia’s benchmark Micex stock index, which has gained 0.3
percent this year, is down almost 13 percent since Putin won a
March 4 presidential ballot. The cost of insuring government
debt against non-payment for five years using credit-default
swaps has risen to 207 basis points from 179 on March 2.  Ties Sour  Efforts to improve relations with the U.S. under Obama’s
so-called “reset” policy were spearheaded by Putin’s
predecessor, Medvedev. Ties have soured of late.  Putin objects to U.S. plans to house parts of a missile
shield in eastern  Europe , saying it would damage the two
countries’ strategic defensive balance. Pre-emptive strikes
against the system are possible as a last resort,  Nikolai Makarov , chief of the country’s General Staff, said May 3.  Russia is also critical of U.S. positions on Syrian leader
al-Assad’s crackdown on opposition protesters and  Iran ’s nuclear
program, citing the ouster of Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi as
evidence Western nations are pursuing regime change in the
 Middle East .  “Relations with the U.S. aren’t what they used to be,”
 Masha Lipman , an analyst from the Moscow Carnegie Center, said
today by phone. “Despite the ‘reset,’ there’s been no movement
toward trust or closer partnership.”  Opposition Figures Detained  Most recently, arrests of protesters against Putin’s rule,
such as opposition leaders Sergei Udaltsov and Alexey Navalny,
have irked the U.S. The Obama administration, which vowed to
work with the newly elected Russian government, is “troubled”
by reports of violence in Moscow in the wake of Putin’s
election, Mark Toner, a spokesman for the State Department, said
yesterday.  “Maybe he doesn’t want to face criticism, if not from his
partners, then from the media,” Lipman said of Putin’s decision
to send Medvedev to the U.S. after this week’s protests.  Putin said he can’t attend the G-8 meeting at Obama’s
retreat in rural  Maryland  because he needs to make decisions
concerning the new Russian government, to be headed by Medvedev
after he was confirmed by parliament this week.  He must review Medvedev’s proposals on the composition of
the Cabinet, presidential aide  Arkady Dvorkovich  said today, the
state-run RIA Novosti news service reported.  Handled All Issues  Medvedev “worked as president for four years and handled
all the issues” on the meeting’s agenda, Dvorkovich said,
according to RIA. “So there won’t be any problems.”  Obama and Putin will continue to work on matters including
nuclear security and non-proliferation, according to yesterday’s
White House statement.  The two leaders discussed “the concrete achievements of
the last three years and expressed their commitment to enhance
bilateral cooperation on the basis of mutual strategic
interests,” the White House said.  Putin and Obama will hold a separate meeting at the Group
of 20 summit in June in Los Cabos,  Mexico . The Russian leader
meets Chinese officials in Beijing and attends a United Nations
conference on sustainable development in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil,
that same month.  Turning down the chance to make the U.S. the first official
visit as Putin embarks on a six-year presidential term may
further harm his country’s bilateral relationship, said Jenia Ustinova, an analyst at Eurasia Group in Washington.  “Sending a prime minister -- a second-in-command position
in the Russian government -- reinforces the notion that the
Putin administration will not prioritize relations with the G8
and the West,” she wrote in an e-mail today. “Putin was
probably not keen on fraternizing with President Obama.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  