-- Rabobank to Take Break From Bond Sales as 2012 Funding in Place
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-05-10T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/rabobank-to-take-break-from-bond-sales-as-2012-funding-in-place.html
Rabobank Groep, whose  credit rating 
is the best of any non-state-owned bank in the world, is taking
a break from tapping bond markets after meeting its 2012 funding
goal in four months, selling debt in more than 25 currencies.  “Do not expect to see Rabobank on a very regular basis in
public benchmark format for the rest of the year,” Chief
Financial Officer Bert Bruggink, 48, said in an interview in the
Dutch lender’s headquarters in Utrecht. “We are extremely
liquid at this moment.”  Rabobank, the biggest Dutch mortgage lender, has  raised  23
billion euros ($29.8 billion) by issuing bonds this year, above
the 20 billion euros planned for 2012. As investors hunted for
top-rated securities, the extra yield, or spread, demanded to
hold Rabobank debt rather than the safest  government bonds  fell
to the lowest level since October. The lender has almost 100
billion euros of cash deposited with central banks, just below
the peak level at the start of the year, Bruggink said.  The spread on 10-year Rabobank debt over German government
debt of similar maturity, the European benchmark, has contracted
47 percent so far this year.  Rabobank’s 1.85 billion euros of 3.374 percent bonds due
2016 trade at 66 basis points above the asset swap rate, a
benchmark commonly used to price bonds. That’s close to the
eight-month low of 63 basis points on May 8 and compares with
120 basis points, or 1.2 percentage points, at the end of year,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader bid prices.  Rabobank, a Dutch cooperative made up of independent
lenders, doesn’t trade on the stock market.  LTRO Effects  “You never know what’s going to happen in the near
future,” said Bruggink, who became CFO in 2004. “We saw the
opportunity and we took it. I think you won’t see Rabobank as
much as you have seen us over the last couple of years.” The
lender may return to the market in the second half of the year,
he said, as it wants to remain “visible” to investors.  The finance chief said he has become “more comfortable
regarding many European banks” after the  European Central
Bank ’s Longer Term Refinancing Operation. The ECB pumped about 1
trillion euros into the banking system by providing three-year
loans in two operations. Rabobank didn’t tap the loans.  Even as markets have deteriorated since the LTROs were
implemented, Rabobank is lending 50 percent more to other banks
than it did at the end of last year, when it had 25 billion
euros outstanding. That was “historically low,” Bruggink said.  Rabobank’s core tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial
strength, was 12.7 percent at the end of December.  Credit Rating  The lender has a top credit rating of Aaa at Moody’s
Investors Service, though it’s on “negative watch,” meaning it
may be downgraded.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the lender one step
lower, at AA+. S&P said it may downgrade Rabobank due to weaker
economic conditions in the Netherlands, according to a Jan. 23
statement from the rating company.  Even with its large capital buffers, Rabobank isn’t immune
to the weak environment for European banks. In March, the lender
said slow asset growth, competition for deposits and increased
regulation, including Basel III capital demands and a Dutch bank
tax, will constrain earnings, making 2012 and 2013 “not
particularly promising.”  The Netherlands, where Rabobank gets about 75 percent of
its earnings, entered its second recession in three years during
the second half of last year. Unemployment rose to 5 percent in
March from 4.1 percent last June, European statistics show.
 House prices , which have fallen more than 10 percent since 2008,
may drop another 10 percent in coming years, Bruggink said.  ‘Luxurious Position’  Rabobank, formed in 1898 as a cooperative lender serving
Dutch farmers, is considering selling assets to bolster itself
even further, Bruggink said.  “We still have a luxurious capital position, but maybe
there is a bit more reason to become even more luxurious and
therefore a bit more pressure to sell,” he said. “At least, we
are now looking into options.”  The Netherlands has seen its perception as a haven eroded
since the government resigned last month after failing to reach
an agreement with the party on which it relied for its majority.
On April 27, the government struck an emergency austerity deal
with other opposition parties. In the wake of the political
turmoil, investors demanded as much as 79 basis points of extra
yield to lend to the Netherlands for 10 years rather than
 Germany , the highest premium in three years.  Market Funding  Rabobank is focusing on sales of senior unsecured debt for
its market funding, eschewing the trend for more issuance of
secured obligations. Banks worldwide have more than 2.5 trillion
euros of outstanding covered bonds, making the securities one of
their largest market funding sources.  Bruggink said he’s concerned about “asset encumbrance,”
referring to a practice where banks tie up assets as collateral
for securities such as covered bonds or repos with central
banks. Such lenders have fewer resources available to meet
claims if an institution fails.  “Asset encumbrance I’m convinced will become a serious
topic for the future,” Bruggink said. “It’s not only something
that’s relevant when it comes to the  interbank market , but it’s
also relevant when, for example, issuing long-term bonds on a
unsecured basis, or even secured basis. I think it’s relevant
when you are a depositor at the bank.”  Instead, the lender is diversifying its obligations into
different currencies. Aside from reserve currencies, Rabobank
has issued in Russian rubles, Mexican pesos and Turkish lira,
and is working on its first issue denominated in  China ’s  yuan ,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  