-- Tractebel Gets $184 Million Loan for Free Market Wind Farms
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n   a n d   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o
-- 2012-05-10T20:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/tractebel-gets-184-million-loan-for-free-market-wind-farms-1-.html
Tractebel Energia SA (TBLE3) , the Brazilian
unit of GDF Suez SA, received 358 million reais ($183.9 million)
from national development bank BNDES to build four wind farms
that will sell energy in negotiated contracts instead of
auctions.  The projects will have 115.4 megawatts of capacity and sell
electricity to large power consumers like factories and
supermarkets, the Rio de Janeiro-based bank said today in an e-
mailed statement.  Most wind farms under construction in  Brazil  have sold
their future energy production to distributors in government-
organized auctions where developers bid down prices to a record
low last year, Marcos Severine, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based
 Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB) , said today in a telephone interview.  “Auction prices are remunerating far less than free market
contracts,” he said. Developers that sell energy on the free
market get a 50 percent discount on a fee levied on using  power
lines , Severine said.  Utilities like Tractebel,  Companhia Energetica de Minas
Gerais  and  Light SA (LIGT3)  that own trading companies are better
positioned to tap this growing market, Severine said. The
companies purchase the power from their own wind farms and use
the contracts to back long-term loans which are crucial to
develop projects, he said.  The wind farms, called Fleixeiras, Guajiru, Mundau and
Trairi, will come online next year, BNDES said.  BNDES, formally known as Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Economico e Social, approved 3.4 billion reais for wind projects
last year, up from 257 million reais in 2008, according to the
statement.  In one auction last August, developers agreed to sell power
from wind farms at an average price of 99.54 reais a megawatt-
hour, national energy agency Empresa de Pesquisa Energetica said
in a  statement . Free market contracts may offer as much as 160
reais, Severine said  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  