-- Traders Shifting to Risk Control Over Speed, Corvil’s Byrne Says
-- B y   D o m i n i c   C h u   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-05-10T17:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/traders-shifting-to-risk-control-over-speed-corvil-s-byrne-says.html
Traders dealing with today’s
electronic market are willing to sacrifice some speed if it
allows them to better manage their risks, said Donal Byrne,
chief executive officer of technology company Corvil Ltd.  “The environment we work in today is dramatically
different,” Byrne said today at the Bloomberg Enterprise
Technology Summit hosted by  Bloomberg Link  in New York. “In
2008, 2009, it was speed at any cost. Now it’s speed fast enough
at the right cost,” with the ability to manage the risks
associated with the trading, he said.  The proliferation of high-speed, computer-driven trading
means the profitability of transactions can be influenced in
fractions of a second. Traders have invested in more powerful
servers and techniques such as co-location, in which exchanges
let them place computers close to the market, to improve
execution speed. The faster speeds come with greater risks,
Byrne said.  “A problem with these infrastructures is that they tend to
have a cliff-edge failure scenario,” said Byrne, whose
company’s products and services help clients measure latency, or
the time it takes to process data, and speed up stock trades.
“If we observe that there is a cliff, the risk is how close you
want to go to the cliff edge,” he said. “Latency is really
inversely proportional to risk.”  Speed isn’t only about how quickly a trader can access
orders at a market, Stephen Ehrlich, CEO of New York-based
Lightspeed Financial LLC, said at the same event. It’s about how
quickly the trader’s systems can get the quotation and
transaction data and analyze the information, he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dominic Chu in  New York  at 
 dchu16@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  