-- Trade Gap in U.S. Widens More Than Forecast as Imports Jump
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-05-10T13:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/trade-gap-in-u-s-widens-more-than-forecast-on-record-imports.html
The trade deficit widened more than
forecast in March as American demand for crude oil, computers,
automobiles and televisions propelled imports to a record.  The  gap  grew 14 percent to $51.8 billion, the Commerce
Department reported in  Washington  today. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for an increase to
$50 billion. A 5.2 percent jump in imports, the biggest in more
than a year, swamped the 2.9 percent gain in exports, which also
reached a record.  The pickup in the value of imports reflected higher fuel
prices and a bounce back in shipments from China following the
week-long Lunar New Year celebrations amid increasing consumer
spending. Sales by American companies to counterparts in  Mexico ,
the European Union and  South Korea  reached the highest ever,
giving no indication of a slowdown in global demand.  “It’s hard to get nervous that imports are rising,” said
 Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in  New
York . “It does suggest that consumer demand is strong.”  Maki said exports “don’t suggest the slowdown in Europe is
having a dramatic effect on growth” in the U.S.  Other reports today showed claims for jobless benefits
dropped last week to the lowest level in a month, and the costs
of imported goods decreased in April.  Applications for  unemployment benefits  fell by 1,000 to
367,000 in the period ended May 5, in line with the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey and the lowest since the end of
March, figures from the Labor Department showed.  Import Prices  The  import-price index  declined 0.5 percent following a
revised 1.5 percent advance in March, Labor Department data also
showed. Economists projected the gauge would drop 0.2 percent,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Prices
minus fuel climbed 0.1 percent.  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the reports.
The contract Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in June rose
0.7 percent to 1,360 at 9 a.m. in New York.  The  median forecast  in the Bloomberg survey of 75 economists
called for the deficit to grow from a previously estimated $46
billion in February. Projections for March ranged from gaps of
$45 billion to $54 billion. The Commerce Department revised the
February gap down to $45.4 billion.  The advance in March brought the value of  imports  up to
$238.6 billion and followed a 2.8 percent drop in February that
was the biggest in at least three years.  Imports from China  Imports from  China  climbed 12 percent in March after
plunging the prior month as the Lunar New Year holidays extended
into early February. The March trade gap with China widened to
$31.5 billion from $28.1 billion, today’s report showed.  During a trip to China last week Treasury Secretary  Timothy
F. Geithner  hailed a strengthening in economic ties. There was
little evidence of tensions over exchange-rate policy, with
Geithner in his closing remarks calling Chinese moves toward a
more flexible currency “significant and promising” and likely
to lead to gains against the dollar and other major currencies.  He also said that Chinese authorities were “intervening
less in exchange markets” and progress in economic and financial
changes in the nation is translating into “opportunities for
U.S. workers and companies.”  The cost of crude oil imports in March increased to $29.2
billion from $23.4 billion the previous month, reflecting higher
prices and an increase in volumes, today’s report showed.  The increase in imports was broad-based with demand for
foreign-made computers, telecommunications gear, automobiles and
parts, televisions, cellular phones and clothing all picking up.  More Exports  The value of  exports  increased to $186.8 billion from $181.5
billion in February as foreign demand for  fuel oil , chemicals,
 aircraft engines , drilling equipment and generators improved.  The value of the dollar may continue to underpin exports.
It’s down 3.3 percent against a trade-weight basket of currencies
from the country’s largest trading partners in the two year
through May 4, according to Federal Reserve data.  The trade gap “will likely trend lower in coming years
because of improved U.S. competitiveness,”  Benjamin Reitzes , a
senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said before
the report.  Patriot Coal Corp (PCX)  is among companies looking for
opportunities abroad.  Growth Overseas  “While the domestic market remains difficult, it is
important to note that international thermal coal markets remain
open to U.S. coals,” said Richard Whiting, president and chief
executive officer, in a May 8 earnings call. “We expect to ship
between 6 and 7 million tons of thermal coal overseas in 2012,
including cargoes to both Europe and  Asia . This represents nearly
a doubling in thermal exports from the 3.8 million tons we
shipped overseas in 2011.”  The surge in U.S. exports is at odds with other reports that
have shown slower global growth and as the  European debt crisis 
limited sales at companies like Caterpillar Inc. and United
Technologies Corp.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, on April 25 reported a gain in first-quarter revenue
that was smaller than analysts estimated after sales fell in
China and  Brazil . The Peoria, Illinois-based company said demand
in developing nations this year will be lower than anticipated, a
reversal after 2011 growth in  Latin America  and the Asia-Pacific
region outpaced  North America .  After eliminating the influence of prices, which are the
numbers used to calculate gross domestic product, the trade
deficit grew to $48.9 billion in March from $44.1 billion,
today’s report showed.  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 2.2 percent annual
rate in the first three months of the year, the Commerce
Department reported last month. The trade gap as initially
reported had little effect on growth after subtracting 0.3 point
in the prior quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  