-- Trade Gap in U.S. Probably Widened in March as Imports Rebounded
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-05-10T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/trade-gap-in-u-s-probably-widened-in-march-as-imports-rebounded.html
The  trade  deficit in the U.S.
probably widened in March as imports rebounded from the biggest
setback in three years, economists said before a report today.  The gap grew to $50 billion from $46 billion in February,
according to the  median forecast  of 75 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Another report may show  first-time claims  for
 unemployment benefits  last week held close to a one-month low.  The pickup in the value of imports probably reflected
higher fuel prices and a bounce back in shipments from  China 
following the week-long Lunar New Year celebrations. At the same
time, exports may cool as slower global growth and the
 European debt crisis  limit sales at companies like  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT)  and United Technologies Corp.  “We’re having headwinds on the global environment,
especially from Europe, but seeing support from emerging
economies,” said Sean Incremona, a senior economist at 4Cast
Inc. in  New York . The March widening “looks to be a correction
from the very large decline” the prior month, he said.  The Commerce Department’s trade figures are scheduled for
release at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from gaps of $45 billion to $54 billion.  Purchases of foreign goods decreased by 2.7 percent in
February, the biggest drop since February 2009, according to
Commerce Department data last month. Imports from China plunged
18 percent as the Lunar New Year holidays extended into early
February. That slump was probably reversed in March, widening
the  trade gap .  Crude Oil Prices  More-expensive petroleum may also have contributed to the
gains. The price of foreign  crude oil  climbed 3.5 percent in
March, according to figures from the Labor Department. Fuel
prices probably retreated last month, helping to restrain
inflation from overseas.  The import price index dropped 0.2 percent in April after
rising 1.3 percent the prior month, according to the median
forecasts of economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of Labor
Department figures that are also scheduled for 8:30 a.m.  Jobless claims climbed to 368,000 last week from 365,000 a
week earlier, economists project another Labor Department report
at the same time will show.  A hiring slowdown would raise the risk of weaker  consumer
spending , which means imports could keep slowing this quarter.
Payrolls climbed by 115,000 workers in April, the smallest
increase in six months, Labor Department reported last week. The
 jobless rate  fell to a three-year low of 8.1 percent as people
left the  labor force , adding to worries that the economic
expansion is cooling.  After reaching a record in February, U.S. exports may also
slow as economies from  Europe , to China and  Brazil  decelerate.  Europe’s Economy  The European debt crisis is curbing demand for goods as
governments step up spending cuts. Euro-region unemployment rose
to a 15-year high in March and manufacturing contracted in April
for the ninth month.  Concerns about Europe have pushed stocks lower this month.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has dropped 3.1 percent so far
in May.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, on April 25 reported a gain in first-quarter revenue
that was smaller than analysts estimated after sales fell in
China and Brazil. The Peoria, Illinois-based company said demand
in developing nations this year will be lower than anticipated,
a reversal after 2011 growth in  Latin America  and the Asia-
Pacific region outpaced  North America .  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  