-- Railroads Save $775 Million on Crash-Avoidance Systems
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-05-10T19:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/railroads-save-775-million-on-crash-avoidance-systems.html
U.S. railroads including  Warren Buffett ’s Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  LLC will get some relief
from a $10 billion regulation requiring them to install crash-
avoidance technology.  Railroads won’t have to add so-called positive train
control on lines that don’t carry passengers or toxic materials,
Cass Sunstein, administrator of the White House Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs, said today.  The industry will save $335 million in five years and as
much as $775 million over two decades, according to a White
House statement. The administration estimated savings of as much
as $1 billion when it first discussed reducing the scope of the
Federal Railroad Administration rule last year.  “This very fancy high-tech technology needn’t be imposed
where the safety risk is very low,” Sunstein said at an
American Bar Association meeting in  Washington  today.  The change in the positive train control mandate was part
of a White House initiative announced today to repeal or modify
five regulations affecting hospitals, gasoline stations,
railroads and local governments.  California Crash  Railroads won’t have to install the crash-avoidance
technology on about 10,000 miles (16,090 kilometers) of track,
the railroad administration said in a statement.  “As a result of this review, the revised regulations will
provide greater flexibility to railroads and save hundreds of
millions of dollars even as they improve rail safety,” FRA
Administrator Joseph Szabo said in the statement.  A 2008 law enacted after a California train collision
killed 25 people required railroads to install, by 2015, the
technology to stop or slow trains to prevent crashes. Some
railroads have said that the necessary technology won’t be
available in time to meet that deadline.  The railroad agency estimated in 2010 it would cost
railroads $13.2 billion over 20 years to install and maintain
the systems. The agency proposed changes to the rule last year
that would exempt as much as 14,000 miles of track.  Costs Increasing  The costs of positive train control have been going up,
John Larkin, managing director of the Stifel Nicolaus
Transportation and Logistics Research Group, said in a note
today.  CSX Corp. (CSX)  had intended to spend $1.1 billion, and that’s
risen to $1.7 billion, Larkin said.  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  is
planning to spend $2 billion, up from $1.4 billion.  Railroads stand to gain more if Congress pushes back the
installation deadline, Larkin said.  “In our view, that 2015 deadline was never realistic,”
Larkin said. “We believe an extension of the deadline would be
a more significant positive to the rails than the regulatory
changes announced this morning.”  The  Association of American Railroads  challenged the
positive-train control requirement, which it called the most
expensive regulation ever imposed on the industry, in a lawsuit
filed in March 2010. The group and the railroad administration
reached a settlement in March 2011 that included revisiting
where the technology would be required.  Industry Pledges Cooperation  The industry will work with regulators to implement
elements of positive train control, AAR President Edward
Hamberger said in a statement.  “Ensuring the safest possible transport of all rail
passengers and commodities, particularly highly toxic chemicals,
remains the freight railroads’ highest priority,” Hamberger
said.  The industry wanted the administration to use a 2015 map of
track use instead of the 2008 version that had been included in
an earlier rulemaking, Holly Arthur, a AAR spokeswoman, said in
an interview.  “This is what we have been looking for in terms of where
to put positive train control,” Arthur said.  The Washington-based trade group’s members include the
largest freight railroads operating in the U.S., including
Burlington Northern Santa Fe, CSX and  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  