-- RBC’s Nixon Says Ego Pushes Bank CEOs to Also Be Chairman
-- B y   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-05-10T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/rbc-s-nixon-says-ego-pushes-bank-ceos-to-also-be-chairman.html
U.S. banks have resisted the move to
split the role of chief executive officer and chairman in part
because of pride and culture,  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  CEO  Gordon Nixon  said.  “The resistance really is more around tradition and ego
and prestige than it is anything else,” Nixon said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker .  Royal Bank, Canada’s largest lender by assets, made the
 shift  11 years ago.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  are
among the only major U.S. banks that have separated the roles,
while firms including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  have kept them combined.  “It’s healthy for the system and I think it takes a lot of
the pressure off the CEO, which would be good,” Nixon, 55,
said. “But unfortunately, some U.S. CEOs don’t quite see it
that way.”  Nixon was named CEO in 2001 after John Cleghorn resigned,
and the Toronto-based lender appointed Guy Saint-Pierre as the
non-executive chairman. All of Canada’s major banks followed
Royal Bank’s move separating the roles.  Canada’s banks are among the strongest in the world,
according to a ranking in the June issue of Bloomberg Markets
magazine. Canadian lenders, which dominate the list’s top 10
spots, cited strong capital levels, a conservative-lending
culture and strict regulatory oversight for their showing.  Europe Exposure  Canada’s mortgage market was one of the greatest sources of
strength for the country relative to the U.S. and elsewhere,
Nixon said.  “Most mortgages are on the balance sheets of banks,
therefore they’re quite well underwritten, the lending terms are
conservative, amortization periods are relatively modest
compared to other markets,” Nixon said. “As a result, one of
the strongest asset classes has been one of the weakest asset
classes elsewhere.”  Royal Bank is also reducing its exposure to  Europe ,
including capital markets, even as it looks to gain business  in
wealth management, investment banking and trust services on the
Continent, Nixon said.  “We’re taking down our overall balance sheet exposures
where we feel it’s prudent to do so, but we also think there’s
an opportunity to do business with our European customers,”
Nixon said. “We would be taking down exposures in things like
our trading books and areas where you can be impacted by periods
of low liquidity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Schatzker in  New York  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  