-- Treasuries Drop on Concern Refuge Demand Pushed Yields
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-05-10T21:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/treasuries-pare-losses-as-europe-concern-aids-sale.html
Treasuries fell for the first time in
five days amid concern investors seeking refuge from  Europe ’s
financial turmoil may have pushed U.S. government yields too
low, curbing demand for the securities.  U.S. debt  pared losses  after JPMorgan Chase & Co. said it
lost about $2 billion tied to synthetic credit securities after
positions taken by its chief investment office were riskier than
expected. Treasuries gained from their lowest levels of the day
after a $16 billion auction of 30-year bonds drew stronger-than-
average bidding.  “The market got a little ahead of itself,” said Jason Rogan, managing director of U.S. government trading at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors. “It can be viewed as a positive sign if
there’s no major bearish news coming out of Europe. Today was
about the setup for the auction.”  The yield on the current 30-year  bond  rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point to 3.04 percent, at 4:59 p.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
3.125 percent bond due in February 2042 fell 10/32, or $3.13 per
$1,000 face amount, to 101 5/8.  The yield rose as much as eight basis points earlier. It
dropped to 2.98 percent yesterday, a level last seen on Feb. 2.  Yields Advance  Ten-year note  yields  climbed four basis points to 1.87
percent after rising as much as 10 basis points, the biggest
gain since April 3. Yields dropped to 1.79 percent yesterday,
the lowest level since Jan 31.  Treasuries pared losses in late afternoon as JPMorgan
reported losses.  “This portfolio has proven to be riskier, more volatile and
less effective as an economic hedge than the firm previously
believed,” the New York-based company said in a quarterly
securities filing.  Today’s bond auction drew a yield of 3.090 percent,
compared with a forecast of 3.114 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of seven of the  Federal Reserve ’s primary dealers. The
bond sale drew a bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, of
2.73, compared with an average of 2.67 for the previous 10
sales.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 33.8 percent of the notes, compared
with 30.7 percent of the notes at the April sale and an average
for the past 10 offerings of 30 percent.  Auction Data  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 15.4 percent of
the notes, compared with 13.4 percent of the notes at the last
sale and an average of 17.5 percent for the past 10 auctions.  “There’s obviously demand for safe Treasury paper,” said
 Thomas Roth , senior trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities USA Inc. “We’ve seen this through the whole debacle
with Europe.”  Thirty-year bonds have lost 1.8 percent this year compared
with a 0.6 percent return in the broader U.S. debt market after
returning 35.5 percent last year, more than triple the 9.8
percent gain by the broader Treasury market, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Today’s auction is the last of three Treasury note and bond
offerings this week totaling $72 billion. The government
announced today it would auction $13 billion of 10-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities on May 17.  Fed Sales  The Fed sold $8.6 billion in notes due from October 2013 to
January 2014 today as part of a program known as Operation
Twist. The sales are part of the central bank’s effort to
replace $400 billion of shorter-term debt in its holdings with
longer maturities by the end of June to hold down borrowing
costs.  The difference between the 10-year  swap rate  and the yield
on similar-maturity  U.S. debt  narrowed for the first time in
three days to 13.25 basis points. It widened yesterday to as
much as 18 basis points, the most since December.  Swap rates are usually higher than Treasury yields in part
because the floating payments are based on  interest rates  that
contain credit risk. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for
investors in many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and
auto-loan securities.  Demand for a refuge from Europe’s turmoil helped the U.S.
sell $24 billion of 10-year notes at 1.855 percent yesterday, a
record low for an auction. Ten-year  yields  dropped to 1.67
percent on Sept. 23, the least ever.  European Develoments  “European investors are looking for alternative safe
havens where they can earn a little bit more and it’s coming
into the Treasury market,” FTN Financial Chief Economist
Christopher Low, the most accurate forecaster of Treasury note
yields last year, said yesterday. “The combination of low
growth and low inflation is beneficial for bonds everywhere,
including  U.S. Treasuries .”  Low was the only one among 70 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey who predicted the yield would fall to 2 percent by the
end of last year.  “It’s likely that the U.S. 10-year Treasury yield will
work itself down to 1.5 percent by year-end,” said Low, who is
based in New York.  As  Greece  faces political paralysis, a survey of 1,253
Bloomberg subscribers showed 57 percent of investors, analysts
and traders predicted at least one country will abandon the euro
by year-end. Political leaders remained divided on forming a new
government, stoking concern another election may set the stage
for the country’s exit from the currency union.  Budget Surplus  The U.S. government posted a  budget surplus  in April, the
first in more than three years, as  tax revenue  climbed and
spending dropped. It was the first surplus since September 2008
and the biggest since April 2008.  Receipts topped outlays by $59.1 billion compared with a
deficit of $40.4 billion in April 2011, the Treasury Department
said today. Economists projected a $35 billion surplus,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Today’s 30-year bond auction was also supported by
inflation projections.  A Labor Department report May 12 is forecast to show the
consumer-price index in April climbed 0.1 percent, compared with
0.3 percent the prior month, according to economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The so-called core measure, which
excludes more volatile food and energy costs, rose 0.2 percent,
a separate survey showed.  The five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate , a measure
of traders’ inflation expectations that the Fed uses to help
guide monetary policy was at 2.77 percent, below its 2012 high
of 2.8 percent and less than its five-year average of 2.79
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  