-- Record Lichtenstein Sells at $267 Mln Sotheby’s Auction
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-05-10T03:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/record-lichtenstein-sells-at-267-mln-sotheby-s-auction.html
Roy Lichtenstein ’s “Sleeping Girl”
sold for $44.9 million at Sotheby’s in New York last night, a
record for the artist, in a $266.6 million contemporary-art
auction that was almost a third smaller by value than Christie’s
the night before.  Records were also set for Ai Weiwei, Cy Twombly, Glenn
Ligon, Mark Bradford and Isa Genzken, as 11 of the 57 lots
didn’t sell.  The casualties included two paintings by Willem de Kooning,
who had a recent retrospective at the Museum of  Modern Art , and
a photograph by  Cindy Sherman , who has a solo show there now.  “It seems like there’s a lot of money chasing the
trophies, but the rest of the market is tepid,” said Suzanne Gyorgy, global head of art advisory and finance at  Citi Private
Bank. (C)  “It felt shaky.”  The night before, Christie’s achieved records for  Jackson Pollock ,  Gerhard Richter  and  Alexander Calder  in the biggest-
ever contemporary-art auction. Just three of 59 lots failed to
sell.  “Maybe people were spent out,” said Joanne Heyler,
director and chief curator of the  Broad Art Foundation ,
established by collector Eli Broad. “There wasn’t the same
density of high-value lots. The market hasn’t completely lost
its head.”  Dealers said Sotheby’s estimates were optimistic for a
cache that was less spectacular than Christie’s, which had 13
lots from the estate of collector David Pincus that alone
totaled about $175 million.  ‘Freshness and Provenance’  “At the end of the day, it’s about the material, its
freshness and provenance,” said  David Benrimon , whose family
operates three galleries in  New York .  “Sleeping Girl” surpassed the high estimate of $40
million and the previous Lichtenstein record of $43.2 million,
set six months ago at Christie’s.  The 3-by-3-foot image of a sultry blonde was in the
collection of Phil and Beatrice Gersh, who bought it from the
Ferus Gallery in  Los Angeles  in 1964, the year it was painted.
The Gershes were founding members of the city’s Museum of
Contemporary Art. Beatrice Gersh died last year. Her husband, a
former talent agent, died in 2004.  “Sleeping Girl” tied for the top lot with Francis Bacon’s
1976 canvas “Figure Writing Reflected in Mirror.” That
painting depicts a seated man scribbling on a white sheet of
paper with his back and profile toward the viewer. The man is
reflected in the mirror.  ‘Double Elvis’  Andy Warhol ’s 1963 canvas of two Elvis Presleys brandishing
guns fetched $37 million, above its low estimate of $30 million
and less than half of the $71.7 million Warhol record.  Titled “Double Elvis [Ferus Type],” the silkscreen
painting depicts the singer dressed as a cowboy and shooting
from the hip against a silver background.  The painting was snapped up by the Mugrabi family, which
owns one of the largest private Warhol collections.  “There’s a little adjustment in the Warhol market,”
Benrimon said. “It’s been flat since last year.”  A ton of porcelain sunflower seeds by Ai fetched $782,500,
an auction record for the Chinese dissident artist. In January,
 Mary Boone Gallery  in  Manhattan ’s Chelsea district exhibited
five tons of Ai’s seeds configured into a 16-by-32-foot
rectangle. In 2010, Ai installed more than 100 million similar
hand-crafted seeds in the Turbine Hall at  London ’s Tate Modern.  Marden, Mitchell  There were no takers for Brice Marden’s gloomy geometric
abstraction from 1986-87. Likewise, a vibrant 8 1/2-by-13-foot
Joan Mitchell painting didn’t sell.  Sotheby’s (BID)  charges buyers 25 percent of the hammer price up
to $50,000, plus 20 percent from $50,000 to $1 million, and 12
percent above $1 million. Presale estimates don’t include the
buyer’s premium. The auctioneer is scheduled to report quarterly
earnings later today.  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on stage and  Jason
Harper  on cars.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 