-- Red Sox Announcer Beane Dies of Heart Attack While Driving Car
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/red-sox-announcer-beane-dies-of-heart-attack-while-driving-car.html
Carl Beane, the “Voice of Fenway
Park,” died yesterday after having a heart attack while driving
his car in Sturbridge, Massachusetts, the  Boston   Red Sox  said.  Beane, 59, had been the public address announcer since
2003, when he won a competition for the position.  The Red Sox will pay tribute to Beane in pregame ceremonies
before their home game against the  Cleveland Indians  today.  “No one loved his role with the Red Sox more than Carl did
his,” Red Sox Chief Executive Officer Larry Lucchino said in a
statement. “He adored the opportunity to pay homage each game
to Sherm Feller, and to contribute to the culture of Fenway
Park, a place he loved passionately.”  Beane died after his car, an SUV with a spare tire cover
stitched to look like a baseball, crossed the double yellow
lines and left the road before hitting a tree and a wall,
Worcester County District Attorney Joseph Early Jr. said in an
e-mailed statement.  Beane, a veteran sports reporter, is the lead-off voice in
“The Baseball Experience” at the National Baseball Hall of
Fame and Museum in Cooperstown,  New York .  Born in Agawam, Massachusetts, he graduated from Agawam
High School in 1971 and the Career Academy School of
Broadcasting in 1972, when he began his broadcasting career at
WMAS in Springfield.  He provided national updates for ESPN Radio, Sirius
Satellite Radio, Westwood One,  Associated Press  and
MetroNetworks, as well as WBZ Radio in Boston.  He also taught sports broadcasting and play-by-play classes
at the Connecticut School of Broadcasting in Needham,
Massachusetts.  Funeral arrangements have yet to be completed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  