-- Repsol Rises Most Profit Beats Estimates on Output: Madrid Mover
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-05-10T13:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/repsol-rises-most-profit-beats-estimates-on-output-madrid-mover.html
     May 10 (Bloomberg) -- Repsol YPF SA, the Spanish  oil
company  whose YPF SA unit was expropriated by Argentina, rose
the most in 19 months after its first-quarter earnings beat
analysts’ estimates on higher oil and natural-gas prices.  Repsol, down 40 percent this year, traded 7.7 percent
higher at 14.14 euros as of 2:19 p.m. in Madrid. The shares
earlier gained as much as 8.1 percent. Profit rose 3.5 percent
to 792 million euros ($1 billion) compared with analysts’
forecast for 481 million euros, the company said today in a
regulatory  filing .  Argentine President Christina Fernandez de Kirchner last
month seized YPF, which accounted for a fifth of Repsol’s
earnings, and accused the company of failing to invest enough in
the business to bolster output. Repsol, which also operates in
 Brazil  and the U.S., said first-quarter earnings were driven by
stronger exploration and production and a 37 percent gain from
the liquefied natural gas unit.  “This is a solid set of results,” said  Peter Hutton , a
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London . “Repsol has clearly
wanted to show strength in its underlying business. While some
may treat the level of beat with some skepticism, it should also
be a reminder that the heavily negative sentiment overhanging
the stock looks overdone.”  Libyan Wells  Earnings from the upstream division rose 34 percent as
production increased in the  Gulf of Mexico  and Libyan wells
resumed production following the country’s civil war.  Brent
crude  averaged $118 a barrel in the first three months of 2012
compared with $105 during the year earlier period.  Without YPF, which saw the price of its oil capped by the
Argentine government, Repsol’s net income rose 12 percent to 643
million euros.  “The future of our company has not changed, the upstream
division was always the center of our growth,” Chief Financial
Officer Miguel Martinez said on a conference call with analysts
today. “We may have lost value temporarily, however the
potential we have as a company will allow us to recover.”  Repsol will spend about 3.5 billion euros on  capital
investment  this year -- excluding the contribution from its 30
percent stake  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS)  -- as it seeks to increase
profit from its production business faster than the industry
average, Martinez said. The company plans to drill about 20 more
exploratory wells this year and expects to have results from
test sites in Cuba and Guyana by June.  Operating income in the LNG business rose to 158 million
euros in the first quarter from 115 million euros a year
earlier. Income in the refining unit slipped 25 percent to 332
million euros.  Repsol’s net debt at the end of the first quarter excluding
YPF and Gas Natural SDG SA was 4.17 billion euros compared with
4.84 billion euros a year earlier.  The company will present its strategy through 2016 to
investors on May 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  