-- Republican Newcomers Split From Old Guard
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/republican-newcomers-split-from-old-guard.html
It was supposed to be a budget-
cutting frenzy. House Republicans lined up to offer a series of
amendments whacking away at a $51 billion spending bill that
funds the Departments of Commerce and Justice, and scores of
other agencies.  One by one their proposals died, often at the hands of
long-time Republican lawmakers joining forces with Democrats. By
yesterday afternoon, only two budget-cutting amendments had been
adopted, carving about $1.5 million from the bill.  “I was disappointed,” said Representative Mike Pompeo, a
Kansas Republican whose proposal to cut funding for economic
development grants was easily defeated. “This is a process
where the House of Representative needs to lead. Nothing gets
spent without the  House of Representatives  moving forward on
it.”  The legislative battle is the latest example of the clash
between old-guard Republicans and a coalition of Tea Party-
backed freshmen and other anti-spending members who chafe at
their party’s leadership on fiscal matters. They have fought
over shutting down the government, raising the debt limit and,
this week, on extending the lending authority of the U.S.
Export-Import Bank.  Such tensions are spilling over into the congressional
elections. This week Tea Party activists ended the 36-year
career of Senator  Richard Lugar , an Indiana Republican
criticized in attack ads for negotiating with Democrats.  The most recent fight is over the first of a dozen spending
bills to fund the government for the fiscal year that begins
Oct. 1.  ‘Not the Same’  “Every dollar is not the same,” Virginia Republican
Representative Frank Wolf lectured colleagues on  May 8, urging
them to reject a fellow Republican’s bid to impose a 1 percent
across-the-board cut.  The amendment was defeated, winning just 160 votes on the
House floor, 156 from Republicans.  Also rejected was  Arizona  Representative Jeff Flake’s
proposal to cut $1.2 billion, or about 15 percent, from the
 National Science Foundation ’s budget. Flake complained that some
of the projects in that budget included examining how rumors
begin and whether those who play the Facebook game FarmVille
tend to have more friends.  He said his proposal would roll back funding for the
program to 2008 levels.  ‘Hardly’ Austerity  “Hardly the era of austerity,” Flake said. “I don’t
remember music from the ‘Grapes of Wrath’ playing when we had
the 2008 budget,” referring to a book and movie based on it
that depicted Depression-era poverty.  The two budget-cutting amendments adopted on the bill were
sponsored by Republican freshmen. Representative Andy Harris of
 Maryland  managed to cut $542,000 from the budget of the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration . Representative Trey Gowdy of  South Carolina  succeeded in trimming $1 million from
the  Justice Department ’s budget.  The other amendments didn’t fare as well. A proposal to end
the Legal Services Corp. by Representative Austin Scott, a
freshman Republican from  Georgia , won only 122 votes.  Pompeo’s amendment to cut funding for the Economic
Development Administration won the support of 129 lawmakers. He
said there is some solace: his colleagues are learning about the
program.  “We could lower taxes for everyone if we get rid of
agencies like this,” he said.  $1.6 Billion Less  House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a 30-
year veteran viewed with suspicion by many newcomers,
acknowledged he is “somewhat surprised” more wasn’t cut from
the bill on the floor. He said the legislation contains $1.6
billion less in spending than this year’s bill and funds many
law enforcement programs backed by Republicans.  “Over the last three fiscal years, we will have cut this
budget substantially,” he said.  House Republicans  will have another chance to make spending
cuts today. They are set to consider a separate measure calling
for more than $200 billion in cuts to  food stamps  and other
programs to prevent automatic reductions in defense spending
scheduled to start in 2013.  The House Republicans’ internal divisions have empowered
some in the chamber’s Democratic minority.  A bill extending the lending authority of the Export-Import
Bank, which provides loans for the foreign purchases of U.S.
goods, passed in the House yesterday with support from 147
Republicans and 183 Democrats amid opposition from some
Republicans who called the program little more than corporate
welfare.  Likewise, it was Democrats who supplied the votes that
ended the bids to cut spending. “This is where the bipartisan
spirit kicks in,” said Representative Tim Huelskamp, a freshman
Republican from  Kansas . “A bipartisan majority agrees that we
don’t need to cut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  