-- Rise in Residential Investment May Help Home Depot-Lowe’s
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-05-10T15:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/rise-in-residential-investment-may-help-home-depot-lowe-s.html
Spending on construction of new
residential housing and improvements to existing homes is at a
three-year high, a trend that may boost sales at  Home Depot Inc. (HD) 
and  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)   Private-residential fixed investment, which includes major
replacements such as new roofs and improvements like finishing a
basement, rose 9.1 percent from a year earlier to an annualized
$360.7 billion for the three months ended March 31. This marks
the fourth consecutive quarter of nominal increases and was the
fastest pace of yearly growth since 2006, Bureau of Economic
Analysis data show.  These expenditures may prolong a structure’s life or
increase its value and are “another piece of corroborating
evidence” that home-related purchases were “very good” in the
first quarter, said Scot Ciccarelli, a New York-based analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets .  New U.S. homes sold at a  328,000 annual rate  in March,
beating the 319,000 median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The total was down from an upwardly revised
353,000 pace the prior month that was the highest in two years,
based on Commerce Department data.  Residential building permits also climbed unexpectedly by
4.5 percent to a 747,000 annual rate in March,  the highest  since
September 2008. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted a
710,000 pace.  High Correlation  Private-residential spending -- which accounts for about
2.3 percent of gross domestic product -- is highly correlated
with comparable-store sales for Home Depot and Lowe’s, the two
largest U.S. home-improvement retailers, Ciccarelli said.  Same-store sales probably rose at least 5 percent in the
fiscal first quarter at Home Depot and at least 2.4 percent at
Lowe’s from a year earlier, he forecasts. Atlanta-based Home
Depot is scheduled to release earnings on May 15, followed on
May 21 by Lowe’s, based in Mooresville,  North Carolina .  Home Depot reported an increase at stores opened at least a
year of 5.7 percent for the three months ended Jan. 29; Lowe’s
said sales rose 3.4 percent for the three months ended Feb. 3.  About 30 percent of  Fortune Brands Home & Security Inc. (FBHS) ’s
North American sales are at Home Depot, Lowe’s and home-
improvement chain Menard Inc., Chief Executive Officer
Christopher Klein said in a telephone interview. The Deerfield,
Illinois-based company, which owns the Moen faucet and Omega
cabinet brands, is projecting a 4 percent increase in 2012
revenue for its repair and remodel business, up from a previous
estimate of 2 percent, he said.  Signs of Comeback  As the housing industry shows signs of a comeback, the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Home Improvement Retail Index, comprised
of Home Depot and Lowe’s, has risen 73 percent since Aug. 10,
2011, compared with the  S&P 500 ’s 21 percent gain.  Shares of the two companies have outpaced the market in the
past nine months as investors try to gauge how much recent
revenue increases reflect “stronger forward-looking demand”
and not moderate weather, said Ciccarelli, who maintains
“outperform” recommendations on these retailers.  Their valuations already may reflect improvement in
housing, Ciccarelli said. Home Depot and Lowe’s are trading at
multiples of about 18.1 and 17.2 times consensus 2012 earnings,
compared with a five-year average of 15.9 and 15.5, he said.  “It’s really become a duration call,” he said.
“Investors who think we’ll get a multiyear recovery in the
housing market, particularly in home improvement, need to have
exposure to these stocks.”  Warm Weather  The warmer-than-usual winter may have contributed to as
much as half of the 19 percent first-quarter sequential gain in
private-residential fixed investment on an annualized basis,
according to estimates by Joseph LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist
in  New York  at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.  “We’re starting to see very faint signs of a housing
recovery, and a better labor market should further increase
demand for housing and related remodeling activity,” he said.  The U.S. added 115,000 jobs in April, the 19th consecutive
month of increases, while unemployment fell to 8.1 percent from
8.2 percent in March, the Labor Department reported May 4.  The  National Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo
Housing Market Index, a gauge of builder perceptions for single-
family home sales and forecasts for the next six months, held at
an almost five-year high of 28 in March, then fell to 25 last
month. Readings below 50 mean more respondents said conditions
were poor.  Real-Estate Activity  The  Federal Reserve  noted progress in its April 11 Beige
Book: Residential real estate improved in “most districts,”
with contacts in  Boston , Philadelphia and  Kansas City  saying
mild weather boosted activity.  The higher-than-normal temperatures in January and February
probably helped spur outdoor projects in the Midwest and
Northeast, as Fortune Brands saw increased demand in these
regions, Klein said. Still, the “positive momentum is
widespread,” with sales up in the Western and Southern states.
This suggests that even if demand for projects began earlier in
the season, “it was more than just weather,” he said.  Other companies also reported sales increases.  Sherwin-
Williams Co. (SHW) , the Cleveland, Ohio-based maker and retailer of
paints and coatings, saw demand strengthen “in virtually every
product category, every customer segment, in every geographic
region,” as first-quarter revenue grew 15 percent from a year
earlier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Christopher Connor
said on an April 19 conference call.  Market Firming  Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK)  Chief Operating Officer James Loree said the market for housing and home improvement “clearly
appears to be firming,” and if that continues, it “bodes very
well” for the  New Britain , Connecticut-based company. Point-of-
sales data for its power tools and outdoor products have been
“very strong,” so “it would be foolish” to assume the gains
were entirely because of weather, he said on an April 19
conference call.  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s second-largest payments
network, also saw recent increases. After “languishing in
pretty negative territory” about six months ago, sales of
hardware, electronics and home-improvement products were
“actually the growth areas” in the last two months, President
and Chief Executive Officer Ajaypal Banga said on a May 2
conference call.  Even so,  consumer confidence  still is “not back to where
we’d like to see it,” which hurts expensive projects such as
kitchen remodeling, Klein said. This business is lagging behind
the overall market, as consumers remain “a little cautious.”  Consumer Confidence  Sentiment slipped to  minus 40.4  in the week ended May 6,
the lowest in three months, from minus 37.6 the prior week,
based on the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index. That’s still more
than 12 points above the minus 53.2 October 2011 reading.  Residential real estate also continues to show signs of
weakness, as sales of previously owned homes unexpectedly fell
2.6 percent to a  4.48 million  annual rate in March from 4.6
million the prior month, according to data from the National
Association of Realtors. This was the second month of declines;
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for an increase to 4.61 million.  Even though housing may have bottomed, it “won’t be a big
driver of performance” this year for Home Depot, Ted Decker,
senior vice president of retail finance, said at a March 6
conference hosted by Raymond James & Associates Inc. The company
forecasts its 2012 revenue growth will be consistent with
economic expansion between 2 percent and 3 percent, he said.  ‘Roughly Flat’  Industry shipments for household appliances fell 10 percent
during the first quarter,  Benton Harbor , Michigan-based
 Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  said April 26. The total for the year will be
“roughly flat, which is at the low end of our previous
guidance,” Marc Bitzer, president of Whirlpool  North America ,
predicted on a conference call that day.  Though the housing recovery remains uneven, it tends to
move in “very long” cycles, with the six-year market slump
that began in 2006 following an eight-year boom, Ciccarelli
said. Further, Home Depot and Lowe’s are large components of
portfolio benchmarks such as the S&P 500, so it can be “very
painful” for investors to be short or underweight if they
believe the recovery is sustainable, he said.  Shares of Fortune Brands rose  9 percent  on April 27 -- the
most since September -- a day after it released first-quarter
earnings of 8 cents a share, beating the analyst consensus of 3
cents. Revenue gains have been driven by pent-up demand from
Americans who have decided to remodel in lieu of selling their
homes or moving, as well as increased  foreclosure  activity that
is spurring rehab projects, Klein said.  What’s even more encouraging is that the revenue gain isn’t
coming from the cheapest cabinets and faucets, he said. Rather,
the company’s “fashion products” have had strong sales as
buyers balance value with an often long-delayed purchase.  “Our customers are saying, ‘If I’m going to spend my hard-
earned money, boy, I want to feel good about it.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  