-- Robertson’s Blown Save Leads to Yankees’ Loss to Tampa
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-05-10T04:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/robertson-s-blown-save-as-rivera-fill-in-leads-to-yankees-loss.html
David Robertson , the relief pitcher
who is closing out games for the Yankees in the absence of the
injured  Mariano Rivera , couldn’t escape a bases-loaded jam last
night as New York lost 4-1 at home to the Tampa Bay Rays.  Robertson filled the bases in the ninth inning and allowed
four runs for his first blown save and first loss of the season.
The four-run inning came one day after Robertson got his first
save of the season by striking out Tampa Bay’s  Carlos Pena  with
the bases loaded to end the game.  “It feels terrible, I blew it,” Robertson told reporters.
“Tomorrow can’t come fast enough. I can’t wait to get another
chance.”  Robertson, who had been a setup man for Rivera until the
Major League Baseball career saves leader injured his knee, came
into the game with the Yankees leading 1-0 following eight
scoreless innings by four  New York  pitchers.  Sean Rodriguez opened the Rays’ ninth with a single. Pinch-
hitter Brandon Allen also singled before  Ben Zobrist  walked.
Robertson, who entered the game by holding opponents to a career
.159 average with the bases loaded in the regular season, then
struck out Pena for the first out.  B.J. Upton followed with a sacrifice fly to tie the game
and  Matt Joyce  hit a three-run homer to right field.  They were the first runs allowed this season by Robertson,
whose 26 1/3-inning regular-season scoreless stretch was the
longest by a Yankee since Rivera had a 30 2/3-inning scoreless
streak in 1999.  Rivera’s Blood Clot  “He’s going to be fine,” Tampa Bay manager Joe Maddon
told reporters. “He’s good. We just happened to get to him
tonight.”  Rivera yesterday told reporters at Yankee Stadium that he
was given blood thinners this week to dissolve a clot in his
calf, near the knee injury that ended his season.  Rivera, the career saves leader with 608, tore his right
anterior cruciate ligament and meniscus in his knee while
catching fly balls during batting practice May 3 before a game
at Kansas City.  Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said Robertson should not be
judged too harshly for one blown save.  “It’s obviously an adjustment any time you move up in a
role,” Girardi told reporters. “He’s going to bounce back and
I have a ton of confidence in him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  