-- Rockland County, New York, Has Rating Lowered Three Levels
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-05-10T19:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/rockland-county-new-york-has-rating-lowered-three-levels-1-.html
Rockland County,  New York , had the
rating on its general-obligation bonds cut three levels to the
lowest investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service because it
hasn’t closed a deficit of more than $40 million.  Rockland, about 30 miles northwest of New York City with a
population of about 312,000, had the rating lowered to Baa3 from
A3. The rating company placed $240 million of debt on review for
further cuts and warned that the county may face difficulty
borrowing in June for  cash flow  and refunding short-term notes.  “Without this emergency borrowing, they’re planning to be
$30 million in the red by the end of the year and almost out of
cash by June,” Rob Weber, a Moody’s analyst, said in a
telephone interview.  The rating cut comes three days after state Senator David Carlucci, a Democrat, said he opposed a county plan to increase
sales taxes by 0.375 percentage point. Rockland also hasn’t won
state approval to issue $80 million of deficit bonds and failed
to get $18 million in labor concessions or sell a nursing home
facing a $12 million deficit, Moody’s said.  Suburban Woes  Rockland joins other  New York City  suburban counties
confronting financial distress. Nassau, on  Long Island , had its
finances taken over by a state oversight board while the
executive of neighboring Suffolk has declared a fiscal
emergency, triggering 10 percent cuts in department budgets.  Rockland County Executive C. Scott Vanderhoef, a
Republican, said in a statement that he was disappointed by
Moody’s decision and pinned the blame on Carlucci’s opposition
to the sales-tax increase. In New York, counties need the state
Legislature’s approval to raise sales taxes.  “Moody’s downgrade is a direct result of his unwillingness
to work with us to close the budget gap,” Vanderhoef said.  Vanderhoef said that he’s working on a contingency plan
with the Democratic-controlled county Legislature to close the
deficit and that negotiations with the county’s biggest union
are continuing.  “It’s unfortunate that Moody’s did not wait to review our
final contingency plan before downgrading the bond rating,” he
said.  In a telephone interview, Carlucci said raising the  sales
tax  would drive shoppers to  New Jersey , hurting local
businesses. The county has mismanaged its finances by relying on
optimistic sales-tax revenue forecasts and failing to cut
spending, he said.  “Giving them this sales-tax increase will not solve the
problem,” Carlucci said. “It will make the problem worse. If
they were serious, they would have come up with a contingency
plan already.”  Dealers today traded $50,000 of county general-obligation
bond maturing in eight years at about 104 cents on the dollar to
yield 2.4 percent. Yesterday, $100,000 of the same bonds traded
at 103 cents on the dollar to yield 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  