-- Romney Apologizes After Report He Bullied Fellow Student
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-05-11T04:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/romney-apologizes-after-report-he-bullied-student-in-high-school.html
Mitt Romney  defended himself against
a report he bullied fellow high school students suspected of
being homosexual, as President  Barack Obama ’s campaign suggested
the presumptive Republican nominee is intolerant on gay rights.  Romney apologized yesterday for any high school pranks that
might have been offensive following a Washington Post report
that, according to others at the private school he attended, he
led a group of boys in pushing down a screaming fellow student
who was often taunted about his presumed sexual orientation.  “Back in high school, I did some dumb things, and if
anybody was hurt by that or offended, obviously I apologize,”
Romney, 65, said in an interview on Fox News Radio yesterday.
“I don’t recall the incident myself,” he said in a later
interview on the Fox News television channel. “I had no idea
what that individual’s sexual orientation might be.”  The report, a day after Obama announced his support for
same-sex marriage, added fuel to Democratic claims that Romney
is out of step on gay issues. Democrats also tried to capitalize
on Obama’s decision to endorse gay marriage with new fundraising
appeals.  Not ‘Helpful’  The harassment story was “not a particularly helpful one”
for Romney, said  John Pitney , a professor of politics at
 Claremont McKenna College  in  California . Still, he said, “I
think a lot of us probably have forgotten some of the nasty
stuff we have done in high school.”  The Post article included accounts from five classmates of
Romney’s at the private Cranbrook School in  Bloomfield Hills ,
Michigan. They said Romney led a group that shoved John Lauber,
who later came out as gay, to the floor and cut his long,
bleached-blond hair.  Phillip Maxwell told the Post he was in the dorm room where
the incident occurred and described it as “vicious.”  Maxwell, a lawyer, later told ABC News he was among those
holding Lauber down and Romney helped with the hair cutting. The
incident is “a haunting memory,” he said.  Another student, Gary Hummel, a closeted gay at the time,
said his efforts to speak in class were punctuated by shouts of
“Atta girl” from Romney, the Post reported.  There is a renewed national debate on gay rights after
Obama announced his personal support for same-sex marriage in a
May 9 interview with ABC News.  Appeal to Donors  Obama’s campaign e-mailed an appeal to donors hours after
the president said he resolved what for years was an
“evolving” position on gay marriage and publicly reversed his
previous opposition to same-sex unions.  “I decided it was time to affirm my personal belief that
same-sex couples should be allowed to marry,” said the campaign
e-mail, which asked for donations.  The campaign also sought to raise millions more at three
West Coast fundraisers last night, including dinner at the Los
Angeles home of movie star  George Clooney .  About 150 guests paid $40,000 a ticket to attend the event
featuring Clooney and  Jeffrey Katzenberg , chief executive
officer of Glendale, California-based  Dreamworks Animation Skg (DWA) 
Inc. Supporters were also urged to contribute to a pro-Obama
political action committee that can take unlimited donations to
compete against similar super-PACs supporting Romney.  Obama’s campaign released a web video attacking Romney for
opposing same-sex marriage and some legal benefits for gay
couples.  Doubling Down  “Mitt Romney doubled down on his belief that for the first
time in our nation’s history, we should amend our Constitution
to include discrimination,” Lis Smith, spokeswoman for the
Obama campaign, said in a statement.  Romney supports amending the Constitution to define
marriage as a relationship between a man and a woman. He does
back some domestic partnership benefits and expressed support
yesterday for the right of gay couples to adopt children.  “I also know many gay couples are able to adopt children.
That is fine,” Romney said in the Fox News television interview.  In an effort to tamp down reaction to the Post story,
Romney aides set up the Fox radio interview. Campaign aides also
reached out to former high school friends to share more positive
recollections of Romney, according to a staff member.  ‘A Thoughtful Guy’  “Mitt was a thoughtful guy with a great sense of humor who
cared about his classmates,” said Richard Moon in one of the
statements. “He would never go out and do anything mean
spirited. Clownish, yes. Never mean.”  “Mitt has led an idyllic life,” said  Al Cardenas ,
chairman of the  American Conservative Union . “In Mitt’s case,
if the worst they can come up with in a man’s upbringing is
maybe a little something in high school, an isolated incident,
I don’t think it’s a character issue.”  The Post quoted fellow students, including a former
girlfriend, who described Romney as an industrious leader at
Cranbrook, where children from the state’s wealthiest families
ate in a chandeliered dining room and studied in reading rooms
decorated with frescoes and marble friezes. Romney attended the
school while his father, George, headed American Motors Co. and
served as governor of  Michigan .  The school’s complex of buildings are “located on a
beautiful 315-acre campus, known as one of the masterpieces of
American architecture,” according to the  Cranbrook website .  Romney, in the Fox News radio interview, said marrying his
wife, Ann, whom he met while at Cranbrook, and going on a Mormon
mission in  France  changed him into a “very different person.”  Romney, who graduated from high school in 1965, questioned
how much of a candidate’s background is fair game, given that
the incidents in question happened close to 50 years ago.  “There’s going to be some that want to talk about high
school,” he said. “Well, if you really think that’s important,
be my guest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  