-- Rostelecom Jumps on Prospect Putin to Reduce Holding
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-05-11T03:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/rostelecom-jumps-on-prospect-putin-to-reduce-holding.html
OAO Rostelecom (ROSYY)  surged the most in six
weeks in New York on speculation President  Vladimir Putin  is
moving toward reducing the government’s stake in the nation’s
dominant fixed-line phone operator.  American depositary receipts of Rostelecom climbed 3.1
percent to $25.89 in the U.S., the biggest jump since March 26.
The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded Russian
companies in the U.S. gained for the first time in seven days,
halting the longest run of daily declines in seven months.
Futures expiring in June on Moscow’s dollar-denominated RTS
Index dropped 0.9 percent to 143,625 in U.S. trading.  Putin, who returned to the Kremlin this week after four
years as prime minister, ordered on May 2 for state-run
companies Rostelecom and OAO Svyazinvest to merge by April 2013,
according to a decree on the government’s  website . The move
signals the government will scale back its stakes in the
companies as part of its privatization drive, according to
Otkritie Financial Corp.  “The dialogue between President Putin’s pro-reform actions
and positive market reaction continues,” Marco Casas, vice
president of equity sales at Otkritie Inc. in New York, the U.S.
arm of the Moscow brokerage, said by e-mail yesterday. The order
to complete the merger “sends a strong signal that Putin is
serious about the privatization of federal assets.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rose 1.7 percent, the most since April 12,
to $27.17 in the U.S. yesterday. The RTS Volatility Index, which
measures expected swings in the index futures, were little
changed at 32.51 points in New York.  Boost ‘Market Value’  Putin signed at least a dozen decrees after being sworn in
as president on May 7 and ordered the government to formulate
plans this year for state companies to divest “non-core
assets” and for government stakes in non-commodity producers to
be reduced, according to a Kremlin statement.  “The merger should lead to an increase in Rostelecom’s
market value because it ends cross-shareholding with Svyazinvest
and transfers Svyazinvest’s assets to Rostelecom,” said
Konstantin Chernyshev, head of research at UralSib Financial
Corp in Moscow. Rostelecom also benefits from getting
Svyazinvest’s mobile phone unit, he said.  Svyazinvest owns 43 percent of Rostelecom, according to its
 website , while Rostelecom  owns  25 percent plus one share in
Svyazinvest, according to Rostelecom’s site.  The government, including through its stake in state
development bank VEB, will hold more than 50 percent of the new
company, Rostelecom said in an April 2 statement.  Mechel Profit  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  lost 1.2 percent to
94.41, rebounding from the longest losing streak since six
declining sessions through August 8, 2011.  ADRs of  OAO RusHydro (RSHYY) ,  Russia ’s largest hydropower producer
and the biggest gainer on the gauge yesterday, rose 3.3 percent
to $3.10 in New York, after gaining 1.1 percent to 95.29 kopeks
in Moscow, or 3.16 U.S. cents, in Moscow. One ADR is equal to
100 ordinary shares.  OAO Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s largest producer of coal for
steelmakers, rose 1.7 percent to $7.26 in New York yesterday,
rising from a three-year low reached on May 9. The company’s
Russian  stock  added 5.4 percent in Moscow yesterday to 229.20
rubles, or the equivalent of $7.60. One ADR is equal to one
ordinary share.  Mechel (MTLR) ’s net income in the fourth quarter increased to
$201.15 million from $25.7 million in the third, while revenue
for the period declined 8.8 percent to $2.9 billion, according
to the company’s statement yesterday.  ‘Adverse Consequences’  “The recent worldwide slowdown has had, and the European
sovereign debt crisis and the continuing uncertainty as to
economic recovery may have, adverse consequences for our
customers and our business,” the company said in a filing with
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday.  Mechel is delaying “for a long time” a potential share
sale by its mining unit amid “weak financial markets,” Chief
Financial Officer Stanislav Ploschenko said on a conference
call.  The company will take a “few months” to review its assets
and sell those which generate losses or thin margins to help cut
$9.3 billion net debt, Ploschenko said.  OAO Surgutneftegas (SGTPY) , Russia’s fourth-largest oil producer,
fell the most in six months in U.S. trading yesterday. The stock
dropped 5.9 percent to $5.40 in New York. The company’s
preferred shares on Russia’s Micex Index rose 0.4 percent to
18.03 rubles or 60 U.S. cents yesterday. Ten preferred shares
equal one ADR.  Crude Supplies  Surgutneftegas ADRs traded at a 9.7 percent discount to the
company’s Moscow-listed shares, the biggest gap since June 2009.  Crude for June delivery rose 0.3 percent to $97.08 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, rising for the
first time in seven days.  Brent oil for June settlement dropped 0.4 percent to
$112.73 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Urals
crude, Russia’s chief export blend, declined 0.3 percent to
$110.20.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
responsible for 40 percent of global oil supplies, said that
global oil stocks are outpacing demand levels, keeping its
forecast for world consumption this year unchanged.  OPEC, scheduled to meet next month, is producing 8.3
percent more crude than it considers necessary this quarter,
data released today by the Vienna-based group show. Russia is
not an OPEC member and has no plans to join the organization,
the country’s officials, including President Putin, have said.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
fell 0.4 percent to HK$4.98 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:36
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  