-- Rousseff’s Rate Cut Push Undermines Itau’s World-Beating
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-05-10T16:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/rousserff-rate-cut-crusade-undermines-brazil-s-banks.html
Brazil’s President Dilma Rousseff has
settled on a crowd-pleasing target as part of her campaign to
lower interest rates: some of the world’s most profitable banks.  In response to growth that slowed to 2.7 percent in  Latin
America ’s biggest economy last year, Rousseff has turned up the
pressure on private lenders to force them to lower what she
called “unacceptable” rates of an average 44 percent on
consumer loans. She’s also altered 150-year-old rules
guaranteeing savers minimum returns to pave the way for the
central bank to lower its benchmark rate to a record low.  The country’s biggest lenders, such as  Itau Unibanco
Holding SA (ITUB4) , have responded by cutting some rates. While that may
mollify Rousseff, the most popular leader in the Group of 20
nations, according to polls, it won’t help bank profits that are
being compressed by a rise in delinquency rates and will decline
further with lower returns from government bond holdings,
according to Deutsche Bank AG and  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)  Brazil
bank stocks have lost a  sixth  of their dollar value since April.  “Attacking the banks works everywhere,”  Albert Fishlow ,
an author of several books on Brazil’s economy and a former top
U.S. diplomat to Latin America, said in a phone interview from
 New York . “People are frustrated in Brazil with the failure of
the economy to pick up.”  Labor Day Offensive  The focus on the banks comes as Rousseff struggles to
invigorate an economy that grew last year less than  Russia ,
 India ,  China  and most of Latin America. Besides cutting taxes on
 consumer goods  and boosting low-cost lending by state-run banks,
policy makers have cut their key rate by 3.5 percentage points
since August. The president has repeatedly called on banks to
join that effort by reducing what they charge for loans.  Her rhetoric reached a high point in a nationwide televised
address to commemorate international Labor Day on May 1. She
said it is “ unacceptable  that Brazil, which has one of the most
solid and profitable financial systems, continues to have the
highest  interest rates  in the world.” The $2.1 trillion economy
will only be competitive when interest rates -- the second-
highest in the G-20 when adjusted for inflation -- fall to
global levels, she added.  Even as the benchmark Selic approached record lows,
Brazilians paid an average of 3.8 percentage points more on
consumer loans in March than they did in December 2010,
according to central bank data.  Unanswered Phone Call  The Sao Paulo-based banking federation, known as Febraban,
says charges for loans are still high because of delinquency
rates, which have risen to 7.4 percent of consumer loans in
March from 5.7 percent in December 2010. Lowering borrowing
costs also depends on the government reducing taxes,  reserve
requirements  and red tape, the group says.  While the fall of the Selic helps, credit expansion will be
sustainable only when both lenders and borrowers feel optimistic
about the economy, Febraban’s chief economist Rubens Sardenberg
said in a  report  on May 7. “You can lead a horse to water, but
you can’t make it drink,” he wrote.  Sardenberg’s comment angered Rousseff, who refused to take
a phone call from Luiz Carlos Trabuco, chief executive officer
of  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , according to a government official
familiar with the episode. Instead, she sent Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  to demand a public apology from Febraban, said the
official, who isn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly.  The day after Sardenberg’s report was published, the group
issued a statement saying his analysis doesn’t reflect its
official position or that of its members. Bradesco and Febraban
declined to comment on the matter, according to officials who
could not be identified because of internal policy.  185% Interest Rates  Rousseff’s demand for lower bank spreads has resonated with
the public, said Fishlow, who served as deputy U.S. assistant
secretary of state for Latin America under President Jimmy Carter. Brazilian consumers pay an average of 185 percent a year
on overdraft loans, while companies can pay as high as 107
percent on some credit lines.  Rousseff’s approval rating stands at 64 percent, the
highest ever for a Brazilian president after a year and three
months in office, according to a Datafolha poll of 2,588 people
taken April 18-19, which had a margin of error of two percentage
points.  Most Profitable  The rates and fees charged by  Brazil ’s banks, along with
the returns they have traditionally earned on bonds paying the
benchmark rate, have put them among the world’s most profitable.
The average return on equity for the country’s top lenders, a
gauge of how well a company invests shareholder capital, was
about 17.9 percent last year, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.
That compares with 7.4 percent in the U.S. and 2.2 percent for
the biggest banks in  Europe .  Rousseff and Mantega stepped up their campaign in April by
ordering state-owned banks to cut rates. Caixa Economica
Federal, Brazil’s fifth-largest lender by assets, cut borrowing
costs by as much as 88 percent on some credit lines. Caixa
announced a new round of rate cuts today, including reductions
on building and auto loans.  The big private banks followed suit. On April 18 Itau and
Bradesco, respectively Brazil’s first and second-biggest lenders
by market value, cut some targeted credit lines, with Itau’s
rate on auto loans falling 8 percent to as low as 0.99 percent a
month for some borrowers.  Itau is readying a new round of rate cuts, said CEO Roberto Setubal. “We revised our interest rates on loans, made
adjustments, and we are competitive,” he said in an e-mailed
statement. “We will continue adjusting as the Selic falls.”  Selic Falling  Other analysts point to the Selic rate, which is expected
to drop again by a half point to 8.5 percent at the policy
meeting this month, as the main threat to returns. Credit Suisse
said in a May 4 report that big banks could see earnings fall
3.3 percent after a year if the Selic declines to 7.5 percent.  Itau reduced its Selic forecast to 7.75 percent from 8.5
percent, according to a report released today. The bank also
lowered its 2012 growth prediction for Brazil to 3.1 percent
from 3.5 percent.  “This could undermine the health of the financial system
and thus of Brazil’s ability to continue to weather an uncertain
global environment,”  Mario Pierry , an analyst at Deutsche Bank
in Brazil, wrote in a May 4 report.  Itau has fallen 18 percent since the start of April, while
Bradesco fell 8 percent. The benchmark  Bovespa (IBOV)  stock index fell
7 percent over the same period.  Overstretched Consumers  Consumers, who are already overstretched, may become even
more leveraged if borrowing becomes less expensive, said Pierry.  Asset management fees, which accounted for 14 percent of
banks’ 2011 pretax earnings, may also come under pressure,
 Marcelo Telles , chief finance analyst at Credit Suisse in  Sao
Paulo , said in a phone interview.  As the benchmark rate falls, investors will be tempted to
shift money from fixed income funds into tax-free  savings
accounts . Telles estimates that banks will have to cut fees to
between 0.5 percent and 1 percent from as high as the 5 percent
they can currently earn to remain competitive.  Rousseff has tried to prevent any dumping of the bonds, the
government’s main source of financing. This month she scrapped
rules dating back to Pedro II’s monarchy 150 years ago that
guarantee returns, currently 7.4 percent, on savings accounts.
The new rules link the accounts to 70 percent of the Selic when
the key rate falls to 8.5 percent or lower.  Still, in making way for lower rates, bankers fear she may
be reviving another obstacle that has long plagued Brazil’s
economy: high inflation. Economists forecast inflation of 5.12
percent this year and 5.56 percent in 2013, according to the
most recent central bank weekly survey.  “Inflation could be re-ignited,” Pierry wrote in his
report, adding that “we see several unwanted side effects to
the banking sector from a sharp reduction in market rates and
from forced reductions in credit spreads.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  