-- Rupiah Gains as Bank Indonesia Takes Steps to Drain Excess Cash
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-05-10T09:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/rupiah-trades-near-two-year-low-on-greece-concern-bonds-steady.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah gained as the
central bank held its benchmark rate and unveiled measures to
drain excess cash from the financial system. Bonds declined.  Bank Indonesia  left its  reference rate  unchanged at 5.75
percent for a third month, according to a statement in Jakarta
today, a decision predicted by all 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The monetary authority said it will raise the rates
on its bills and term deposits to absorb surplus funds, and
remain in the foreign-exchange market to stabilize the rupiah.  “Sentiment for the rupiah is quite good now,” said
Artanavaro Gasali, Jakarta-based head of global markets at PT
Bank ICBC Indonesia. “It’s hoped that the instruments outlined
can absorb extra liquidity in the market, which would help
strengthen the rupiah.”  The rupiah rose 0.4 percent to 9,230 per dollar as of 4:13
p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg. The currency touched 9,276 on May 4, the weakest
level since June 2010.  One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, held at 7.5 percent for a third
day after surging 100 basis points, or one percentage point,
from 6.5 percent last week.  “Our expectation for detailed measures in tackling
liquidity, and hence inflation, has been answered,” Wee-Khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Societe Generale SA,
wrote in an e-mail to clients today. He forecasts the central
bank will keep its rate unchanged for the remainder of the year
and favors one-month rupiah forward contracts.  ‘Too Loose, Too Long’  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to a four-
month high of 6.21 percent, according to closing prices from the
Inter Dealer Market Association. It’s added 17 basis points this
week.  “We continue to believe that monetary policy is being kept
too loose for too long,”  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , the
Singapore-based director of Asian economics at Credit Suisse
Group AG, wrote in a note to clients today, predicting that the
central bank won’t raise its reference rate unless inflation
reaches at least 6.25 percent. “There are more and more signs
that the economy and asset markets are beginning to overheat.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 