-- Russia Questions Opposition Leaders Over Clashes With Police
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-05-10T15:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/russia-questions-opposition-leaders-over-clashes-with-police-1-.html
Russian investigators questioned
anti-corruption blogger Alexey Navalny and another opposition
leader over clashes with police the day before  Vladimir Putin 
was inaugurated for his third term as president.  Navalny and the Left Front’s Sergei Udaltsov, who are
serving 15-day jail terms, are being questioned in connection
with two criminal cases that are punishable by as many as three
and five years in prison respectively, the Investigative
Committee said today in a  statement  on its website.  Mass protests against alleged fraud in parliamentary
elections erupted in Moscow and other cities in December,
sparking the largest unrest in Putin’s decade in power.
Opposition leaders pledged to keep up protests after Putin’s
disputed election to a new Kremlin term in March.  Twenty-nine officers were injured in clashes with anti-
Putin protesters on May 6. More than 400 people were held after
demonstrators began throwing rocks and flares, police said.  Navalny, jailed for 15 days in December after taking part
in an unsanctioned rally, is one of the most prominent
opposition figures who organized anti-government demonstrations
to protest election results. He was arrested several times this
week at various rallies before a court sentenced him to 15 days’
jail yesterday for disobeying police orders.  Investigators opened criminal probes on charges of inciting
mass disturbances and violence against officials on May 6, when
an authorized rally by tens of thousands of people in Moscow
ended in violence.  While the Obama administration vowed to work with the newly
elected Russian government, the U.S. is “troubled” by reports
of violence in Moscow in the wake of the election, Mark Toner, a
spokesman for the State Department, said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  