-- Russia Refrains From Rate Cut as Putin Craves Growth: Eco
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-05-10T10:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/russia-holds-interest-rates-to-protect-record-low-inflation-1-.html
Russia’s central bank refrained from
cutting interest rates for a fifth month, signaling reluctance
to deploy monetary stimulus after  Vladimir Putin  returned to the
country’s presidency with the goal of accelerating growth.  Bank Rossii in Moscow indicated that containing inflation
is its priority by leaving the refinancing rate at 8 percent
today, in line with all 15 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. The
level of borrowing costs is “appropriate for the coming
months,” the central bank said in a  statement  on its website.  Putin, who was sworn in for his third term as president on
May 7, battled inflation during his first eight years in the
Kremlin after the rate peaked at 127 percent in July 1999. The
central bank is keeping its focus on prices, which may collide 
with the Russian leader’s goal of accelerating economic 
expansion  to least 6 percent a year to turn the economy into 
one of the  world’s five largest by purchasing power by 2015.  Putin is willing to support the inflation fight “to a
certain degree,”  Alexander Morozov , the chief economist at  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in Moscow, said in an e-mail “Pressure on the
central bank would likely increase if economic growth slowed to
below 3 percent. Putin has expressed his satisfaction with
economic growth of 4 percent given the problems in Europe.”  Investors switched to betting on  interest-rate  increases on
April 27 for the first time in almost five months, according to
forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg. The contracts show
borrowing costs may rise 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, over the next three months, compared with expectations of
as much as 31 basis points of cuts on Feb. 7.  Ruble Drops  The ruble maintained declines and traded 1.3 percent down
at 30.1780 versus the dollar by 11:35 a.m. The  Micex Index (VTBMICX)  of 30
stocks rose 1.4 percent to 1,403.24 and was also little changed
after the statement.  Russia cut inflation below  Italy ’s rate for the first time
in March and reduced it further last month as some food prices
fell. The pace of consumer-price increases slowed to 3.6 percent 
in April from 3.7 percent in the two previous months. That 
compares with 3.8 percent in Italy in March and 3.5 percent in 
the U.K. Bank Rossii said today it expects to reach this year’s 
target of holding price growth between 5 percent and 6 percent.  The central bank left the overnight auction-based
repurchase rate was at 5.25 percent and the overnight deposit
rate at 4 percent.  Policy makers are adding to signs that they may be “more
inflation-averse” than currently perceived by the market, said
Vladimir Kolychev, head of research at  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s  OAO
Rosbank (ROSB)  in Moscow.  ‘More Concern’  “We were thinking the rhetoric will soften a bit in light
of the weak industrial production and fixed-asset investment
data, but the central bank sounds very committed to inflation
targeting,” Kolychev said by e-mail today. “Clearly, inflation
is of more concern to the regulator.”  Russia last month reduced its forecast for economic 
expansion to 3.4 percent this year from 3.7 percent, even after 
increasing its estimate for Urals crude to average $115 a barrel 
in 2012. Gross domestic product expanded 4.3 percent in 2011 and 
returned to output levels last reached before a 7.8 percent 
contraction in 2009.  Boosting growth to 5 percent or 6 percent per year will be
one of the new government’s biggest tasks, acting Finance
Minister Anton Siluanov said May 7. While high  oil prices  from
2000-2008 enabled  Russia  to post an average 7 percent economic
expansion, the European Union, Russia’s largest export market, is
grappling with its worst economic crisis in decades just as
faltering global output caps demand for crude.  Industrial Output Slows  Russian industrial-production slowed to 2 percent in March, 
the weakest since expansion resumed in 2009. Investment growth 
fell  to 4.9 percent in March from a year earlier, missing 
forecasts and  down from increases of more than 15 percent in 
the previous two months.  Inflation will accelerate in the second half as utility
tariffs are increased and the effects of slowing food-price
growth evaporate, Bank Rossii said in the statement. Inflation
and poverty are seen as the biggest threats facing the country
this year, according to a poll by the independent  Levada Center .  Policy makers across eastern  Europe  are weighing economic
prospects against inflation pressure as the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis escalates.  Poland  yesterday unexpectedly
raised its benchmark interest rate to 4.75 percent from 4.5
percent, the highest since January 2009.  Asia Export Slump  In  Asia , an export slump exacerbated by Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis and an uneven recovery in the U.S. is putting
pressure on policy makers to pledge stimulus measures to boost
growth.  China ’s exports rose less than estimated in April, while
Philippine shipments unexpectedly fell in March, reports showed.
Malaysia said today industrial production expanded in March at
less than a fifth the pace economists predicted, a day after a
report showed exports fell for the first time since 2009.
Downside growth risks remain “significant,” the  Bank of Korea 
said today as it held interest rates for an 11th meeting.  Growth prospects for export-dependent Asian nations are
under threat following an inconclusive Greek election that
increases the risk of a worsening European debt crisis and a
slowdown in China and disappointing U.S. jobs data damp the
outlook for global demand. Gains in the  yuan  against the dollar
have ground to a halt this year, while India and Australia have
lowered borrowing costs more than forecast at their most recent
meetings in attempts to bolster their economies.  ‘Entrenched Weakness’  “We are seeing entrenched weakness and it is going to be a
bumpy ride for Asian exports” amid easing demand from Europe,
said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.
in  Singapore . “Our sense is that many Asian central banks have
only suspended, not yet conclusively terminated, the easing
cycle for this year. As external headwinds pick up, we think
there will be scope for further and in most cases, modest policy
easing.”  The trade deficit in the U.S. probably widened in March as
imports rebounded from the biggest setback in three years,
economists said before a report today.  The gap grew to $50 billion from $46 billion in February,
according to the median forecast of 75 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Another report may show first-time claims for
 unemployment benefits  last week held close to a one-month low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  