-- RWE Profit Slumps 20% on Nuclear Shutdowns, Lower Gas Sales
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-05-10T15:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/rwe-profit-slumps-20-on-nuclear-shutdowns-lower-gas-sales-1-.html
RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-biggest
utility, said first-quarter profit dropped 20 percent as
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s nuclear phase-out curbed power-
generation earnings and gas sales fell.  Recurrent net income, the measure used to calculate the
dividend, fell to 1.29 billion euros ($1.67 billion) from 1.61
billion euros a year earlier, the Essen-based company said today
in a  statement . That’s in line with the 1.33 billion-euro
average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  RWE and larger peer  EON AG (EOAN)  are overhauling operations after
Merkel ordered the permanent halt of all nuclear reactors by
2022 following  Japan ’s Fukushima disaster. RWE’s earnings were
hurt by a loss of revenue from two atomic plants taken offline
in the first wave of shutdowns. The company sold 9 percent less
power in the quarter, while gas sales volumes shrank 12 percent.  The lower results were “largely due to the deterioration
of power-generation margins and heavy burdens suffered in the
gas midstream business,” Chief Executive Officer Jurgen Grossman said in the statement, while maintaining guidance for
the year. RWE will “make up lost ground” because the effects
from  Germany ’s energy-policy change were “one-off,” he said.  Power Margins  Electricity margins deteriorated in the U.K., where RWE was
forced to close  Europe ’s biggest biomass power plant, the 750-
megawatt Tilbury station, in February after a fire. The company
said it may resume operations at one unit in June. RWE dropped
plans to build a nuclear plant in Britain earlier this year.  The company expects full-year earnings to be similar to
2011 and forecast a conclusion of talks on long-term gas
contracts next year.  “Management has confirmed guidance of a flat year,” John Musk, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , wrote in a note to
investors. “While unlikely to be a catalyst to outperformance
today these results give confidence.”  Shares Decline  RWE fell 1.5 percent, to 31.675 euros a share, at the 5:30
p.m. close in Frankfurt trading. The stock has gained 17 percent
this year, valuing the company at about 19.4 billion euros.  “The prospects are brightening,” Grossman said in the
statement. “This is not yet reflected in the figures for the
first quarter.”  Electricity sold in the Netherlands and  Belgium  fell about
8 percent in the quarter, RWE said. Increased competition in
 Hungary  drove down sales in central, eastern and southeastern
Europe, while the German market showed the sharpest decline in
gas revenue, the utility said.  The company plans to divest 7 billion euros of assets this
year and next, and start cost-cutting measures totaling about 1
billion euros through 2014 after expenses from the nuclear halts
trimmed profit by more than 1 billion euros last year.  RWE is “in very advanced talks” on the sale of its stake
in Berlin municipal water and sewer utility Berliner
Wasserbetriebe, Chief Financial Officer Rolf Pohlig said in a
call with analysts.  EON, which reported results yesterday, said first-quarter
profit rose 27 percent after it renegotiated gas contracts and
boosted sales in  Russia . Earnings from the utility’s trading
unit were about 400 million euros higher than a year earlier,
helping to soften the impact of reactor closures, EON said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  