-- Safaricom Raises Dividend 10% as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-05-10T13:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/safaricom-raises-dividend-10-as-profit-beats-estimates.html
Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) ,  East Africa ’s biggest
mobile-phone company, climbed the most in more than two months
after reporting full-year profit that beat analysts’ estimates
and unexpectedly raising its dividend 10 percent.  Safaricom shares  rose 3 percent to 3.45 shillings by the
close in Nairobi, the largest gain since March 6, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Net  income  fell 4 percent to 12.6 billion shillings ($151
million) or 32 cents a share, in the 12 months through March,
Chief Executive Officer Bob Collymore told reporters today in
 Kenya ’s capital. The  average estimate  of five analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was a profit 10.4 billion shillings. Safaricom said
it plans to pay a dividend of 22 cents per share.  The results were “much stronger than the market expected,
based on a significant second-half rebound,”  Aly-Khan Satchu ,
chief executive officer of Nairobi-based Rich Management, said
by phone. “No one expected an increase in the dividend.”  Profit declined as a result of unrealized foreign-exchange
losses amounting to 1.1 billion shillings and an increase in
interest payments by 600 million shillings, Collymore said in an
interview in Nairobi today. Sales rose 13 percent to 107 billion
shillings, as the number of customers increased 11 percent to 19
million.  The company increased call charges on Oct. 1 for the first
time in 11 years amid a weakening currency and rising inflation
in East Africa’s biggest economy. Rates increased an average of
1 shilling per minute after the company reported a 47 percent
plunge in first-half profit amid a price war with competitors.  Business improved in the second half as increased tariffs
boosted voice revenue and the shilling recovered against the
dollar after hitting a record low, Collymore said.  Data Growth  The executive forecast profit to rise in the year through
March 2013.  “The big growth is going to come from data,” he said.  Both data penetration and usage in Kenya are still low and
the company will boost that by providing more affordable
smartphones to its customers, Collymore said.  Competitors of Safaricom, whose main owner is  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , include units of  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and  India ’s  Bharti
Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and Essar Group.  The company plans capital expenditure of 21 billion
shillings in the financial year ending March 2013, with most of
that being spent on its fiber-optic network, Collymore said in
the interview. Investment last year was 25.28 billion shillings.  Safaricom aims to reduce capex to 20 percent of sales from
about 24 percent now, Collymore said, without giving a
timeframe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  