-- Samsung Plans to Start Selling OLED TVs in Second Half
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-05-10T07:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/samsung-plans-to-start-selling-oled-tvs-in-second-half.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,  Asia ’s
biggest electronics maker, aims to start selling televisions
using organic light-emitting diodes in the second half as it
seeks to gain leadership in the next-generation TV market.  Sales will start in  South Korea  before global shipments
begin, Kim Hyun Suk, head of the company’s TV operations, said
at a media briefing in Seoul today. The first models will cost
at least twice as much as the most expensive flat-screen sets of
comparable size, he said.  Samsung and its closest rival,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , are
racing to introduce TVs equipped with new features and display
technology to lure consumers and beat an industrywide demand
slowdown. Flat-screen TV prices in the U.S. jumped 11 percent in
the first four months of this year, helped by demand for high-
end sets with sharper images and which can connect to the
Internet, according to  IHS Inc. (IHS) ’s iSuppli.   Operating profit  at Samsung’s TV-making unit rose to 530
billion won ($465 million) in the first quarter from 8 billion
won a year earlier. Samsung had a record market share in the
U.S. LCD TV market in the fourth quarter, accounting for about
25 percent of total shipments, according to iSuppli.  Samsung and LG are turning to next-generation display
technology using OLEDs, which allow sets to be as thin as 4
millimeters (0.16 inches) and produce sharper images than
current liquid-crystal-display models. TVs using the technology
can be thinner because they use organically glowing materials to
display images without the need for separate backlights.  OLED Technologies  Shipments of OLED TVs may grow to 2.1 million sets in 2015
from 34,000 in 2012,  according to  El Segundo, California-based
iSuppli.  By contrast, global TV shipments fell last year for the
first time since 2004, according to DisplaySearch, part of NPD
Group. Flat-screen TV shipments in the U.S. may  fall for the
first time  this year, to 37.1 million units from 39.1 million in
2011, according to iSuppli.  Samsung and LG employ different OLED technologies. Samsung
uses red, green and blue OLED materials inside individual pixels
to create images, while LG uses white light and an extra color
filter.  Samsung’s method can be more energy-efficient and show a
broader range of colors, according to Paul Semenza, senior vice
president of analyst services at  Santa Clara , California-based
 DisplaySearch . The technology requires greater accuracy and
consistency, making manufacturing harder than LG’s approach, he
said.  While Samsung is open to different approaches in the long
term, the models to be sold this year will be based on its
current technology, Kim said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  