-- Santander Wins EU Court Challenge to French Tax on Funds
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-10T17:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/santander-wins-eu-court-challenge-to-french-tax-on-mutual-funds.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and other
financial services companies including  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  won a
court bid to overturn a French levy on some mutual funds in a
ruling that may lead to rebates for investors.  The European Union’s Court of Justice ruled that  France  was
wrong to charge a 25 percent withholding tax on dividend
payments to a type of EU-regulated funds, known as UCITS,
outside France. French-based products aren’t required to pay the
tax.  The measure “constitutes a restriction on the free
movement of capital, which is in principle prohibited under EU
law,” the court said in a statement today.  France has already received claims for tax refunds of more
than 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion) and could face more, said
Kit Dickson, a tax partner at  Deloitte & Touche LLP , in a
telephone interview. EU countries have reacted to similar claims
by changing rules that tax foreign-based funds differently.  “We’ll see  tax policy  changes coming in from different
member states and they’ll either be starting to tax resident
funds as well as non-resident funds or they’ll choose to exempt
them,” Dickson said. “Spain changed some of its withholding
tax rules in 2010, the Netherlands changed them in 2008, France
chose to tax resident pension funds from 2009.”  The French Finance Ministry press office didn’t immediately
respond to calls and e-mails requesting comment on the decision
and the potential tax rebate.  Economic Repercussions  The EU court refused a request from the French government
to put a time limit on when claims could be made. It said France
hadn’t put forward any evidence that it would risk serious
economic repercussions.  The German fund management association, or BVI, which
encouraged members to complain, estimated potential French
tax rebates for German funds at as much as 1 billion euros. It
is monitoring similar cases in the Netherlands,  Spain  and Italy.  “Any possible refunds go to the funds so the investors get
the benefit,” the association said in an e-mailed statement.
“The ruling may make French investments more attractive because
funds based in Germany or elsewhere will no longer suffer a
disadvantage compared to French funds.”  Ten funds operated by Santander,  Societe Generale , Allianz
Global Investors Kapitalanlagegesellschaft mbH,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,
Generali and Dimensional Fund Advisors LP challenged the French
tax, arguing that EU rules forbid different treatment in France
and elsewhere in  Europe  for UCITS, or Undertakings for
Collective Investment in Transferable Securities.  French Litigation  Santander and Dimensional didn’t immediately respond to e-
mails seeking comment. Societe Generale and KBC declined to
comment and Generali declined to immediately comment. Allianz
referred requests for comment to the BVI.  The ruling sets principles that may help litigation over
French tax discrimination for other products such as  life
insurance  where French-based companies escape taxes that are
levied on foreign rivals, said Eglantine Lioret, a tax lawyer
based in Paris.  The judgment doesn’t limit discrimination to funds within
Europe which may aid refund claims from funds from elswhere,
Dickson said.  “If you’re a fund based in the U.S. or Canada or  Japan ,
then potentially you could take advantage of this as well,”
Dickson said.  While the ruling from the EU’s highest court is binding,
final decisions on the case must be taken by an administrative
court in Montreuil, France.  The cases are:  C-338/11  FIM Santander Top 25 Euro Fi,
Direction des residents a l’etranger et des services generaux,
 C-339/11  Cartera Mobiliara,  C-340/11  Alltri Inka,  C-341/11  DBI-
Fonds APT no 737,  C-342/11  SICAV KBC Select Immo,  C-343/11  SGSS
Deutschland Kapitalanlagegesellschaft,  C-344/11  International
Values Series of the DFA Investment Trust,  C-345/11  Continental
Small Series of the DFA Investment Trust,  C-346/11  Sicav GA Fund
B,  C-347/11  AMB Generali Aktien Euroland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 