-- Sappi Gains After Posting Quarterly Profit: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-05-10T16:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/sappi-gains-after-posting-quarterly-profit-johannesburg-mover.html
Sappi Ltd. (SAP) , the world’s largest maker
of glossy paper, climbed after returning to a second-quarter
profit.  The stock of Johannesburg-based Sappi increased as much as
5.4 percent, the biggest intraday rally since Nov. 30, to 27.14
rand and closed at 25.82 rand, bringing its gain this year to
8.5 percent. The stock  slumped  30 percent last year as rising
costs and weaker paper sales led the company to close mills.  Profit was $58 million in the second quarter through March
compared with a loss of $74 million a year earlier, Sappi said
in a statement. Input prices for items such as wood, pulp and
chemicals were lower than a year earlier, while cost-cutting
measures boosted profitability, the company said.  “ South Africa  continued to contribute significantly to
profit, but the improvement in the European and North American
businesses were big drivers,” Chief Executive Officer Ralph Boettger said in an interview today.  While demand in Europe was down from a year earlier and
prices were “under pressure,” the European operations
benefitted from an annual reduction of more than $100 million of
costs, Boettger said. The closing of its Biberist mill in
 Switzerland , together with the use of more efficient mills and
distribution savings helped boost profit in Europe, he said. In
 North America , Sappi had an improvement in margins.  Pulp prices, which had been weakening since July 2011,
stopped declining midway through the quarter, and have been
gradually increasing, Boettger said. This benefits Sappi’s
Southern African and North American operations where it is a net
seller of pulp. In  Europe , where Sappi still buys about 40
percent of its pulp, the higher prices may support selling
prices of the final product, he said.  Debt Levels  Net debt was reduced by $42 million to $2.13 billion in the
quarter. Sappi will consider refinancing and extending the
maturity of its higher cost debt, including bonds due in 2014,
when “market conditions are favorable and we see an opportunity
to do so,” Boettger said.  The benefits of reorganization at the paper producer’s
South African operations will start showing from the third
quarter and will become more evident from the fourth quarter, he
said. Sappi’s third-quarter earnings will be “in line” with
the year-earlier period, he said. The company’s third quarter is
typically used for maintenance of mills because it is a
seasonally weaker period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  