-- Saudi Arabia Plans $109 Billion Boost for Solar Power
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-05-11T14:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/saudi-arabia-plans-109-billion-boost-for-solar-power.html
Saudi Arabia  is seeking investors for
a $109 billion plan to create a solar industry that generates a
third of the nation’s electricity by 2032, according to
officials at the agency developing the plan.  The world’s largest crude oil exporter aims to have 41,000
megawatts of solar capacity within two decades, said Maher al-
Odan, a consultant at the King Abdullah City for Atomic and
Renewable Energy. Khalid al-Suliman, vice president for the
organization known as Ka-care, said on May 8 in Riyadh that
nuclear, wind and geothermal would contribute 21,000 megawatts.  “We are not only looking for building solar plants,” al-
Odan said in an interview in Riyadh yesterday. “We want to run
a sustainable solar energy sector that will become a driver for
the domestic energy for years to come.”  The comments highlight the scale of Saudi Arabia’s
ambitions to boost renewable energy use as a way to pare back on
oil consumption used for domestic desalinization and power
plants, potentially saving 523,000 barrels of oil equivalent a
day over the next 20 years.  For the solar panel manufacturers such as  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) 
and  SunPower Corp. (SPWR) , the Saudi Arabian market would open a huge
new market as European countries reduce subsidies to keep a lid
on installations. Panel sales may dip this year for the first
time in more than a decade from 27,700 megawatts installed last
year, according to a survey of analysts by Bloomberg on March 9.  ‘Less Profitable’  “These markets are likely to be a lot less profitable than
existing markets,”  Vishal Shah , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG
in  New York , wrote in a note to clients yesterday, noting the
Saudis may require bid winners to supply from factories built in
the nation. “It looks like both First Solar and SunPower would
need to set up local manufacturing.”  First Solar dropped 4.9 percent yesterday, taking its slide
this year to 55 percent. SunPower slid 0.7 percent, for a 16
percent decline this year.  Ka-care is the government agency set up in April 2010 to
oversee the nation’s  renewable energy  strategy. Its plans are
likely to be approved later this year, al-Suliman said,
according to a copy of the presentation he gave on May 8.  The government is targeting 25,000 megawatts from solar
thermal plants, which use mirrors to focus the sun’s rays on
heating fluids that turns a power turbine. Another 16,000
megawatts would come from photovoltaic panels, according to the
Deutsche Bank note.  Bidding Round  Citing government officials, Deutsche Bank said the
capacity would be added in competitive bidding starting with
1,100 megawatts of PV and 900 megawatts of solar thermal in the
first quarter of 2013. A second round of bidding is due in the
second half of 2014.  That tendering process would differ from the European
system, where developers are granted above market rates for
solar power they produce.  Germany ,  Spain ,  Italy  and the U.K.
have slashed rates under those feed-in tariffs to control a
surge in installations.  Saudi Arabia currently has about 3 megawatts of solar
installations, trailing  Egypt ,  Morocco ,  Tunisia ,  Algeria  and the
United Arab Emirates, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “The Saudi Arabian government has a powerful incentive to
diversify its energy mix to reduce dependence on oil,” said
Logan Goldie-Scot, an analyst at New Energy Finance in  London .
“The state could generate an internal rate of return of
approximately 12 percent if it built a PV plant and sold the
displaced oil on the international markets.”  The analyst is assuming initial capital costs for the solar
projects of about $2.17 per watt of capacity installed.  Wind and Nuclear  Persian Gulf oil producers are seeking to reduce their
reliance on fossil fuels for power generation to maximize
exports of valuable crude and allocate natural gas to
petrochemicals production. Ka-care estimates Saudi Arabia’s peak
electricity demand will reach 121,000 megawatts in the next 20
years, with half of that power generated using hydrocarbon fuel.  Other forms of renewable energy such as nuclear, wind,
geothermal, will only generate 21,000 megawatts of the peak-load
required by 2032, al-Suliman said in his presentation.  Saudi Arabia is considering different options to generate
electricity from nuclear energy, according to al-Suliman. Under
the so-called “Balanced Scenarios”, Saudi Arabia would build
16 nuclear reactors by 2030 with a capacity of 14,000 megawatts
of electricity.  Nuclear Cooperation  The country signed a nuclear cooperation agreement with
 China  in January, following three accords signed last year with
 France , South Korea, and  Argentina . The cost of developing the
reactors may reach $100 billion, according to officials from Ka-
Care.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co. sees “technical” potential to
produce 25,000 megawatts of electricity from wind in Saudi
Arabia, Faisal Habiballah, head of solar at the company known as
 Saudi Aramco , said Feb 20. There is also geothermal energy in
the western parts of the Kingdom, he said.  The capital cost of installing the 41,000 megawatts should
be around $82 billion, al-Odan said. The rest of the $109-
billion investment will go to train the Saudis to run the solar
plants as well as for maintenance and operation, he said.  Once the strategy, which includes new regulations and
financial incentives for private investors, is approved “we
will start implementation directly,” al-Odan said.  Saudi Arabia may burn 850 million barrels of oil a year, or
30 percent of its crude output, to generate electricity by 2030
if doesn’t become efficient in energy consumption, Electricity &
Co-Generation Regulatory Authority Governor Abdullah Al-Shehri
said in a presentation in  Riyadh  May 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Cairo at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  