-- Senator Blunt Says New Rules on Labor Data Risk Market Turmoil
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-05-10T18:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/senator-blunt-says-new-rules-on-labor-data-risk-market-turmoil.html
The Department of Labor’s move to
restrict how journalists transmit market-sensitive economic data
risks disrupting financial markets, Senator  Roy Blunt  said.  In a letter to Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis, Blunt, a
Missouri Republican, objected to the agency’s plan to have media
organizations remove from the department computer software,
hardware and communications lines used to transmit news on data
such as the unemployment  rate  and consumer prices.  “Given the market-moving impact of these numbers and the
largely automated processes of today’s market institutions, even
a minor flaw in the timing or accuracy of this data could result
in a destructive impact on global markets,” Blunt wrote in his
letter, dated today.  Reporters in so-called lockups are given data in advance of
its release to the public, allowing time to prepare stories
using their own hardware, software and data lines. The new
system would force journalists, including Bloomberg News
reporters, to use government-provided equipment and  Internet
access , with no guarantee they can send their stories at exactly
the same moment.  “I am deeply concerned that the new policy proposed by DOL
will not only result in the degradation in the quality of
information the American people receive on the economy, but also
represents a fundamental threat to the media’s First Amendment
rights and a disturbing retreat from the government transparency
that the Obama administration so often touts,” Blunt wrote.  Jesse Lawder, a Labor Department spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone call and an e-mail message
seeking comment.  Public Input  Blunt urged the agency to solicit public input on the
proposed changes, saying that “a period of public consultation
that affords the media, investors and other concerned Americans
an opportunity to examine these issues is absolutely essential
to any proposed changes,” he said.  More than 39,000 E-Mini S&P 500 contracts worth $2.7
billion traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange in the five
minutes after the Labor Department released its February
employment report March 9, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
value was more than nine times the average of $290 million for
five-minute intervals in the past decade, the data show.  In the five minutes after the release of the March report
on April 6, more than 45,000 contracts worth about $3.2 billion
traded, almost 13 times the decade average, the data show. The
E-Mini is the most popular futures contract tracking the
benchmark gauge for American equities.  Seeking Explanations  Blunt asked Solis to explain the purpose of the changes,
flaws in the current system as well as measures the Labor
Department would take to protect the new process from a failure
or a cyber attack.  Bloomberg News, which participates in the lock-ups along
with news organizations including  Thomson Reuters , the
Associated Press and Dow Jones Newswires, has written to the
Department of Labor opposing the changes.  The department has said it can’t promise journalists they
will be able to transmit market-sensitive economic releases at
exactly the same time under changes resulting from the first
review of procedures in a decade.  “I’m not going to guarantee anything,” Carl A. Fillichio,
the department’s senior adviser for communications and public
affairs in  Washington , said on a  conference call  last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  