-- Serbia Holds Interest Rates Before New Cabinet Is Formed
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-05-10T11:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/serbia-holds-interest-rates-before-new-cabinet-is-formed.html
Serbia’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a fourth month as rate-
setters wait for a new government to be formed after May 6
elections.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije kept its  two-week
repurchase rate  at 9.5 percent, matching the forecast of 18 of
22 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . One predicted a half-point
rate increase, while two expected a quarter-point advance and
one a cut to 9.25 percent.  “The direction of the reference interest rate” in the
coming months will “largely depend on the pace and intensity of
fiscal consolidation” by the government, along with the
resumption of the program with the  International Monetary Fund ,
the bank said in an e-mailed statement.  The bank needs to balance bolstering growth with
maintaining external liquidity after spending more than 750
million euros ($971 million) this year to prop up the dinar. The
currency traded at 112.3039 per euro at 12:11 p.m. in Belgrade,
close to its weakest in a decade, and has dropped 6.7 percent
since January, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Euro Sales  The central bank sold euros today before the rate
announcement to curb renewed dinar declines, according to three
traders in Belgrade who asked to remain unidentified, in line
with the policies of their banks.  Incumbent  Boris Tadic  faces a May 20 presidential runoff
against opposition leader  Tomislav Nikolic , who opposes cuts in
spending as voter anger at austerity measures sweeps across
 Europe . While Nikolic’s Progressives won parliamentary elections
by less than 2 percentage points, Tadic’s Democrats agreed with
the third-place Socialists of former strongman  Slobodan
Milosevic  to continue to work together to form a new government.  “We expect the bank to postpone any moves until a new
government is formed and there is more certainty on future
policies,” Societe Generale SA’s analysts, including Sanja Rajkovic, said in a note to clients today before the decision.  Weighing Factors  Policy makers across Europe are weighing economic-growth
prospects against inflationary pressures as the continent
grapples with a sovereign-debt crisis.  Poland unexpectedly raised borrowing costs by a quarter-
point to 4.75 percent yesterday to tame inflation. Hungary kept
its two-week deposit rate at 7 percent for a fourth month in
April.  Romania ’s central bank has cut the benchmark interest
rate four times since November to 5.25 while Czech policy makers
have left the two-week repurchase rate at a record-low 0.75
percent since May 2010.  Russia ’s central bank refrained from cutting interest rates
for a fifth month today, signaling a reluctance to deploy
monetary stimulus after  Vladimir Putin  returned to the country’s
presidency with the goal of accelerating growth.  Price pressures will start building in the coming months
with “the arrival of a new agricultural season, an increase in
import costs from a previous period and a rise in regulated
prices in the second half of the year,” the central bank said
in today’s statement.  Serbia cut  interest rates  by a total of 3 percentage points
from June to December last year to contain an economic slowdown
triggered by Europe’s debt crisis. The Balkan nation wants to
avoid a second recession in three years after its economy
contracted 1.3 percent from a year earlier in the first quarter.  No Immediate Move  A growing number of economists polled by Bloomberg,
including Jasna Atanasijevic, the chief economist at the
Belgrade-based Hypo Alpe Adria Bank AD, see a need for higher
rates to keep foreign-currency reserves from falling to a level
which the International Monetary Fund considers unsafe. “They
need to boost carry attractiveness of the dinar and save the
reserves,” she said in a May 8 phone interview.  The new government must quickly revise the budget and
reduce the fiscal deficit to 4.25 percent of economic output to
convince the IMF of its commitment to maintaining macroeconomic
stability. The Washington-based lender suspended a $1.3 billion
precautionary loan in February on concern  Serbia  would breach
agreed borrowing targets.  The government has not updated the budget figures since
February, when the two-month deficit exceeded a target the IMF
marked as an indicator of Serbia keeping its fiscal policies on
track. Without a policy change, the fiscal gap is expected to
reach 5.7 percent of GDP by the end of 2012, the Economics
Institute said on May 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  