-- Sexless $72,000 Corvette GS Needs Hot Ferrari Makeover
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/sexless-72-000-corvette-gs-needs-hot-ferrari-makeover.html
I pull my buddy’s Ferrari 458 Italia
off the racetrack and into the pit lane, brake dust showering
the tire rims like fairy powder.  We’ve been hurtling down the straightaway at  Monticello
Motor Club  at 150 miles per hour and the tires are hot to the
touch.  The Ferrari is blood red and brand new. It set my friend
back almost $300,000. I step out of its butter-cream leather
interior and slip behind the wheel of the car that I drove in --
a Chevy.  A $72,000 Corvette Grand Sport, to be exact. Some might
consider that a downgrade as deep as the Mariana Trench. Armani
to Levi’s, Wassily Kandinsky to Thomas Kinkaid. Right, but
wrong.  The Corvette isn’t a third as sexy, the leather is iffy,
and its technology is miles away from the Formula 1 racing
tricks of the Ferrari.  Yet on the race track, it’s a through-and-through purebred.
The Corvette exists to dominate. It’s a Ferrari for the 99
percent.  The calendar says spring, but it’s so cold in  New York ’s
Catskills that we’ve seen snow flurries. No wonder nobody else
is on the private racetrack today. I’ve got Monticello’s
stupendous 4.1 miles all to myself.  Snake  With the traction control in competition mode, the Corvette
steamrolls down the straightaways, touching 145 miles per hour,
and slithers onto the curbing like an anaconda swallowing a
caiman. Its massive brakes haul me down from high speeds as if
I’ve rammed the car into a tire wall.  The Ferrari flicks through hairpins like an afterthought
and steers as if it reads your mind telepathically. The
Corvette, meanwhile, demands discipline. Stay off the gas in
turns or you’ll induce a power slide. Turning the wheel really
works the biceps.  It is fast! A far bigger kick than the BMW M3, and more
heavy metal than its muscle-car cousin, the Chevy Camaro.  The Grand Sport, which starts at $56,000 and gets 430
horsepower out of a 6.2-liter V-8, isn’t even the top-of-the-
line model. There are both the more hair-raising Z06 (505 hp)
and the top tier, 638-hp ZR1, which costs upwards of $112,000
and has carbon-ceramic brakes, just like the Ferrari.  Next Supercar  The 2013 Corvette will be this generation’s last gasp.
Right now, somewhere deep inside of  General Motors (GM)  headquarters,
engineers and designers are working on the all-new 2014 model,
the C7. Consider this a mash note, and a plea. The Corvette is
America’s supercar and it deserves respect. If only we can fix
some things.  Number one: Take a page from Porsche.  Only  Apple (AAPL)  and Ferrari can matchit when it comes to
whetting consumer appetites with products doled out on a strict
schedule. The new generation of the  Porsche 911  was recently
released, and right now customers can buy models like the base
or S model in the new body style.  Yet we know that ever-more powerful models will be released
at regular intervals. We’ll get all-wheel-drive and Targa
models, then the rapacious Turbo and eventually the race-worthy
GT2 and GT3.  Chevy has intermittently offered powerful ZR1 models
through the years, but its efforts seem offhand. Can we expect
one in the C7 generation? Who knows? Instead, we should get a
steady feed of special Corvettes on a staggered timeline. Then
customers can budget accordingly, and it’ll bring a whiff of
anticipation and lust.  Problematic Plastic  Second: Kill the plastic. If sexiness needed a place to
crawl into and die, it would choose the  Corvette’s  interior.
Everybody knows it, so why is it taking GM so long to fix the
problem?  Buttons to unlock the doors and trunk seem like they were
torn off a kid’s toy. The rest is painfully ugly. The seats are
hard to adjust, aren’t that comfortable and don’t keep you in
place while cornering. A terrible trifecta.  While we’re at it, take a look at the Ferrari 458’s
navigation and information systems. The Italians used to be
terrible at this kind of thing, but the 458’s digital
speedometer and information screens are easy to read and use.  Third request: Sex it up.  Model Bulges  The exterior isn’t as unfortunate as some previous
generations, like the unsightly bulges on those 1970s models.
Still, the hood and side vents, blunt edges and blank grill
could use a serious update.  The SRT Viper concept car, recently shown at the  New York
auto show , was a successful mix of aggressive swagger and smart
refinement. So take a design cue from Chrysler. (Did I really
just say that?)  And lastly: Leave it alone. The great things, I mean. Don’t
quell its untamable spirit. Everyone from BMW to Bentley is
offering downsized motors. Yet the bellow from the Corvette’s V-
8 should be federally protected like a national monument.  Be sure you offer us a manual transmission. Ferrari and
Lamborghini aren’t even doing them anymore. Working through the
Corvette’s stick and clutch is a good measure of the fun.  Power should be outrageous. It should be just this side of
scary and a bit rough.  Keep on doing what you’re doing, Corvette. Just do it a bit
better.  The 2012 Chevrolet Corvette GS Coupe at a Glance  Engine: 6.2-liter V-8 with 430 horsepower and 424 pound-  feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed manual.  Gas mileage per gallon: 16 city, 26 highway.  Price as tested: $71,980.  Best feature: That power, that handling.  Worst feature: That dreadful interior.  Target buyer: The driver who wants a supercar on the cheap.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include recent  auction  news.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 