-- Shabangu Calls S. Africa Mining Taxes Fair, Competitive
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-05-10T14:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/shabangu-calls-s-africa-mining-taxes-fair-competitive.html
South Africa ’s Mineral Resources
Minister Susan Shabangu said she sees no need for a major
overhaul of the country’s mining tax regime, as the ruling party
contemplates changes to the current system.  “Our current tax system” is fair and “competitive and it
is working well,” Shabangu told reporters in Cape Town today.
“It’s very important to us to continue to create certainty and
stability in the  mining industry . There is always an opportunity
for improvement.”  A study commissioned by the ruling  African National
Congress  in 2010 proposed the introduction of a “resources rent
tax” on all mining operations triggered once they are
generating returns exceeding about 15 percent annually. Other
recommendations included a 50 percent capital-gains tax on the
transfer of mineral prospecting rights and a 30 percent
“mineral foreign shareholding withholding tax” on companies
based in foreign  tax havens .  South  Africa  is the world’s biggest producer of platinum,
chrome and manganese.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,  Rio Tinto
Group Plc (RIO)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  have operations in the country.
The ANC’s youth wing has called for the nationalization of mines
and banks, saying the country’s black majority has an inadequate
stake in Africa’s largest economy.  ANC branches are discussing the study’s proposals, which
will be considered at a party conference next month.  “One aspect that gives comfort is the endorsement of the
current process that we have implemented,” Shabangu said. “One
does not see major steering away from that particular process.”  Coal Project  Mining accounted for 9.6 percent of South Africa’s gross
domestic product and more than 35 percent of export revenue last
year, while the industry directly employs more than 500,000
workers, according to government data.  The state participates in mining through the African
Exploration Mining & Finance Corp., whose Vlakfontein mine,
about 80 kilometers (50 miles) east of Johannesburg, has
produced 681,458 tons on coal, Shabangu told lawmakers in  Cape
Town  today.  The state company will announce plans soon for a second
coal project in the eastern Mpumalanga province that will supply
4.6 million metric tons of the fuel a year to power utility
Eskom Holdings Ltd. and create 1,000 jobs, she said.  Environmental Considerations  South Africa’s Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development
Act, which was adopted in 2002 and vested custodianship of all
mineral rights in the state’s hands, is being reviewed and will
be presented to the Cabinet by the end of July, Shabangu said.  The planned changes will ensure the law adequately
addresses environmental considerations and is aligned with
environmental and water laws and the government’s plans to
encourage mineral processing, she said.  “The review of the act, however, does not seek to
introduce any major policy shifts in respect of exploration and
exploitation of South Africa’s mineral resources,” Shabangu
said. It will “streamline the licensing process to avoid delays
and inefficiencies.”  Shabangu urged mining companies, including Anglo American
and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , which are being sued by former
workers who contracted lung diseases while working underground,
to reach an out-of-court settlement.  More than 700 former mineworkers suffering from silicosis
and other illnesses have filed a lawsuit against Anglo American
in U.K. courts, while lawyers have signed up more than 6,000
people to join a separate class-action lawsuit against gold-
mining companies in South Africa. The companies have denied
liability, saying they complied with the law.  “We hope the mining companies can still go that route of
engaging the workers,” Shabangu said. “We are engaging the
mining industry. The mining industry has not moved toward making
sure that proper compensation happens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  