-- SMA Falls Most in Five Weeks on Forecast: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-05-10T11:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/sma-falls-most-in-five-weeks-on-forecast-frankfurt-mover.html
SMA Solar Technology AG (S92) ,  Germany ’s
biggest solar company by market value, fell the most in five
weeks in Frankfurt trading as its profit margin and sales
guidance for the full year disappointed analysts.  The stock dropped 6 percent, the most since April 4, to
31.445 euros at 1:22 p.m. local time. SMA’s shares are down 28
percent this year.  The largest supplier of inverters maintained its full-year
forecast for sales of 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) to 1.5
billion euros and a profit margin of 5 to 10 percent, SMA said
today in its earnings statement. Inverters convert electricity
from photovoltaic panels for use in the grid.  “Analysts were betting on an increase in guidance after
first-quarter results beat expectations,” Katharina Cholewa, an
analyst for WestLB AG, said by phone. It doesn’t seem that
beating guidance is a “top priority” for SMA, she said.  The company reported first-quarter revenue and earnings
before interest and tax that beat analyst estimates as demand
increased ahead of feed-in tariff cuts in Italy and Germany, the
world’s biggest solar markets.  SMA is not raising its full-year forecast because it
expects the effects from the tariff cuts in these two markets to
take effect in the second half, Chief Executive Officer Pierre- Pascal Urbon said today in an interview.  The Niestetal-based company is focusing on cutting costs
and expanding in markets including  North America  and  Asia  as
demand in  Europe  is expected to drop in the medium term, he
said.  SMA reiterated its March 29 forecast that global
installations are likely to be 20 to 26 gigawatts this year
compared with 23 gigawatts last year. It also maintained its
proposal for a lower dividend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  