-- Soccer Boycott Could Kick Ukraine Toward Reform
-- B y   T o m a s   V a l a s e k
-- 2012-05-10T23:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/soccer-boycott-could-kick-ukraine-toward-reform.html
If war is a continuation of
politics by other means, then so is soccer.  That’s why European Union leaders are right to use the
“beautiful game” to pressure an ugly regime in Ukraine.
Those who say it’s a mistake, and that the EU should speak
softly to avoid pushing President  Viktor Yanukovych  into
Russia’s arms, are getting him wrong.  Senior European figures, including German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and European Commission President  Jose Barroso 
recently announced plans to skip the Euro 2012 soccer
championship that will be played in Ukraine and  Poland  in
June. So many EU leaders canceled trips to a regional summit
in Crimea, scheduled for this week, that Kiev canceled the
event. All were responding to the apparent beating, while in
custody, of Ukrainian opposition leader, Yulia Tymoshenko.  Tymoshenko was sentenced to seven years in prison, based
on a controversial conviction for abuse of power while she was
prime minister before 2010. The 51-year-old firebrand is
suffering from back trouble and emerged bruised when she was
transferred from jail to the hospital.  No Progress  She led the Orange Revolution in 2004, which took place
when presidential-election results were falsified to make
Yanukovych the winner. The brutish replay of their rivalry
underlines how little progress Ukrainian democracy has made in
the eight years of political turmoil that followed. Many
believe Tymoshenko was jailed to eliminate her from elections
in October, even though her popularity has waned significantly
since 2004.  The former interior minister from her government is also
in prison, as is her former defense minister. Another former
Cabinet member has been charged and released, and yet another
has been granted political asylum in the  Czech Republic .
Meanwhile, senior figures close to the current government, who
are widely suspected of corruption, remain free and are
prospering. The government claims it is merely seeking
justice, and indeed Tymoshenko, a politician who made her
fortune in Ukraine’s murky natural-gas business, is no angel.
But the judiciary’s one-sided pursuit of the opposition smacks
of vengeance.  The EU remains keen to bring Ukraine closer and has
recently concluded an  association agreement  that would
integrate the two economies and align their policies in a
number of areas. But EU member states have refused to ratify
the deal until Yanukovych’s government stops hounding
opponents and starts respecting freedom of speech (journalists
are also being harassed). With the Euro 2012 boycott, some EU
capitals and officials have raised the stakes: Soccer is
immensely popular in Ukraine, and the championship ought to
have been a crowning moment.  Some in  Europe  are not convinced that political boycotts
are the right policy. Polish officials, for example, warn that
too much pressure on Ukraine could cause the country to turn
toward Russia. Ukrainian officials happily second that notion,
threatening the EU that unless it ratifies the association
agreement, it will lose Ukraine. The EU should not blink, for
two reasons.  Russian Competition  First, Yanukovych and the business oligarchs, such as
 Rinat Akhmetov , who back his government have no intention of
joining a Russia-dominated customs union or the proposed
Eurasian Union, an EU-style bloc comprised of ex-Soviet
states. Most of Ukraine’s richest people made their money in
steel, mining and fertilizers, and Russian producers are their
greatest competitors. Ukrainian oligarchs cherish their
independence, as have successive governments in Kiev since the
 Soviet Union  was dissolved in 1991. All have worked hard to
keep key energy assets, such as pipelines, out of Russia’s
hands.  Ukraine may yet lose its gas transit network to Russia
because it needs to repay $5.3 billion in foreign debt this
year. Markets won’t lend to Ukraine at anything less than 10
percent interest. The  International Monetary Fund  has stopped
lending to the country because the Yanukovych administration
has been too profligate and has failed to end gas-price
subsidies. So Ukraine may need help from its resource-rich
neighbor, and Russia would demand control of Ukraine’s
pipelines in exchange for that. But the government in Kiev has
no intention of volunteering to subjugate its politics and
economy to  Russia . When Ukraine’s politicians threaten to do
just that, EU governments should call their bluff.  The second reason the boycott is right involves the mind-
set of the people in power in Kiev. The administration has
become convinced that the EU will need to work with Ukraine no
matter how badly the country behaves, because the West needs
it as a bulwark to Russia. The government’s belief that it is
indispensable means that it sees no reason why it can’t
persecute its opponents and curry favor with the EU at the
same time.  EU Leverage  The purpose of the political boycotts should be to prove
that Ukraine cannot build an authoritarian system without
burning bridges to the EU, and that there’s a cost to
violating basic European norms and values. The Yanukovych
government has passed laws enshrining accession to the EU as
the country’s top foreign-policy goal. That, and Ukraine’s
fear of domination by Russia, gives the EU leverage to seek a
change of behavior -- the Euro 2012 soccer tournament is a
good place to start.  There’s a strong argument that the EU should have gotten
tougher, sooner. Yanukovych telegraphed his authoritarian
intentions from the start. Within months of his inauguration
in 2010, a hastily overhauled  Constitutional Court  changed the
country’s highest law to concentrate power in the hands of the
president. The European Commission took “serious note,” but
did little to defend Ukraine’s democracy.  That’s history now, but today there’s ample evidence that
sotto-voce diplomacy with Ukraine hasn’t worked. Those, such
as Polish President  Bronislaw Komorowski , who argue against
the Euro 2012 boycott are missing the key lesson learned,
namely that the current government in Kiev is obsessed with
power. Yanukovych and his supporters believe they can
manipulate the EU. Only a concerted EU response can disabuse
him of that notion.  (Tomas Valasek is director of foreign policy and defense
at the Centre for European Reform in  London . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  solving Europe’s
employment woes  and the  futures of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac ;
Stephen L. Carter on the  overuse of the word “emergency” ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  Chinese banks ; Virginia Postrel on  Amazon’s
move into high fashion ;  Jonathan Alter  on  human capital and
venture capital ; Gerald M. Rafshoon on  Mitt Romney and Jimmy
Carter.   To contact the writer of this article:
Tomas Valasek at  tomas@cer.org.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net  