-- Societe Generale Said to Name Francis Repka Brazil Chief
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-05-11T13:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/societe-generale-said-to-name-francis-repka-brazil-chief.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) , the French firm
that posted the second-biggest loss by a bank in Brazil last
year, plans to name Francis Repka chief executive officer for
the country, three people familiar with the decision said.  Repka will leave his job as head of the lender’s German
unit, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
move hasn’t been announced. He will replace Francois Alain Dossa, who left last month to become Nissan Motor Co.’s finance
vice president in Brazil.  Societe Generale ’s 156 million-real ($79.5 million) loss in
Brazil last year was second to the 741.7 million-real loss
reported by Sao Paulo-based Banco Votorantim SA, according to
central bank data. Half the French bank’s losses were from
reversing tax credits from consumer-loan units Banco Pecunia SA
and Banco Cacique SA, and expenses related to integrating the
two subsidiaries, according to one of the people.  Brazil is one of Societe Generale’s strategic investment
countries and it plans to develop new businesses there, the
person said.  Jim Galvin , a spokesman for the bank in  New York ,
declined to comment on the appointment in Brazil. Repka didn’t
respond to an e-mail and calls.  Societe Generale is the 23rd-largest bank by assets in
Brazil, with 12.5 billion reais as of December, the central bank
data show.  The French bank ranked 18th among merger advisers in Brazil
for 2011, with one deal valued at $4.8 billion, and hasn’t
handled any transactions announced this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Societe Generale is one of the creditors of  Centrais
Eletricas do Para SA (CELP3) ’s 2.3 billion reais in debt. Celpa, as the
Brazilian utility is known, filed for bankruptcy protection on
Feb. 28.  The lender dropped 3.4 percent to 16.90 euros ($21.85) in
Paris trading at 3:14 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  