-- South African Inflation Mostly of ‘Cost-Push’ Nature
-- B y   G o r d o n   B e l l
-- 2012-05-10T17:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/south-african-inflation-mostly-of-cost-push-nature.html
South African  inflation  was mostly of
a cost-push nature over the past year and there are still
reasons to justify caution on the outlook for economic growth,
central bank Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  said.  The moderate pace of core inflation, which excludes food,
fuel and electricity, showed that while there is evidence that
price pressures are becoming more broad-based, these will
probably be contained by subdued domestic economic growth,
Mminele said in a speech today in Pretoria.  Manufacturing and mining has struggled to recover from the
2009 recession in Africa’s biggest economy as a slowdown in
Europe, one of the country’s main trading partners, lowered
demand for exports. Consumer  spending  has been the main driver
of growth, boosted by the lowest benchmark  interest rate  in more
than three decades.  “Many factors justify caution, above all the uncertain
global environment, and the  Reserve Bank ’s latest projection for
2012 growth at 3 percent still falls marginally short of the
growth rate achieved last year,” Mminele said.  The world economy and global markets face significant
challenges and downside risks remain, with geopolitical tensions
potentially triggering higher  oil prices , he said.  Manufacturing output contracted 2.7 percent in March from a
year earlier, the first decline in eight months, the country’s
statistics agency said today. Mining  production  dropped 9.8
percent in the same month, it said. The Reserve Bank has kept
the key policy rate at 5.5 percent since November 2010 to
support economic growth.  “After today’s number, growth will be closer to 2.5
percent than 3 percent,” Isaac Matshego, an economist at
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , said in an interview. “This means no rates
hikes for longer.”  Inflation will gradually decline from the second quarter
and average 5.2 percent by the end of next year, Mminele said.  The rand weakened 0.2 percent to 8.0088 against the dollar
by 7:25 p.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordon Bell  in Johannesburg at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  