-- South Sudan Says It’s Ready to Negotiate Deal on Oil at Talks
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-05-10T11:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/south-sudan-says-it-s-ready-to-negotiate-deal-on-oil-at-talks.html
South Sudan  is ready to negotiate an
agreement on an oil dispute with  Sudan  that prompted the newly
independent nation to shut down its crude production, Cabinet
Affairs Minister Deng Alor said.  The  African Union  sent officials to Juba, the southern
capital, and Khartoum to prepare for a resumption of
negotiations in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, Alor told
reporters today. Talks broke off last month as forces from the
two countries clashed along their disputed border. The  United
Nations Security Council , backing an African Union peace plan,
warned the two countries that they faced sanctions unless they
stopped fighting and returned to talks by May 16.  South Sudan halted its 350,000 barrel-a-day oil production
in January after accusing Sudan of stealing $815 million worth
of its crude. Sudan said it confiscated the oil to cover unpaid
fees for the use of its export pipeline.  “Definitely we will discuss the oil, and if there is an
agreement on the use of the pipeline again through the territory
of Sudan we will do that,” Alor said. South Sudan will continue
to pursue plans to build alternative pipelines, he said.  South Sudan’s chief negotiator,  Pagan Amum , said in an
April 23 interview that his government would no longer export
its oil through Sudan. Alor said that was a reaction to a
statement by Sudan president Umar al-Bashir that he wouldn’t
allow South Sudan to use pipelines running across his country.  South Sudanese Oil  The shutdown in the south alone cost China 260,000 barrels
a day, New York-based Eurasia Group said in February. The main
producers in Sudan and South Sudan are China National Petroleum
Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s ONGC
Videsh Ltd.  Since South Sudan gained independence in July, talks have
failed to yield agreements on outstanding post-secession issue,
including disputed border areas and the pipeline fees.  Tensions between the countries exploded last month when
South Sudan occupied the contested, oil-rich area of Heglig. It
pulled troops out 10 days later, saying it was complying with a
UN Security Council request.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  