-- South Sudan Hunts for Loans as Oil-Output Halt Dents Economy
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-05-11T07:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/south-sudan-negotiates-loans-as-oil-output-halt-dents-economy.html
South Sudan  is negotiating loans to
boost the value of its currency and keep its economy afloat as
foreign-exchange reserves decline after the country halted oil
production, Deputy Finance Minister Marial Awou Yol said.  The East African nation has secured a $100 million line of
credit from Qatar National Bank and will receive a $500-million
loan within a month from an unidentified provider, Yol said in
an interview in Juba, the capital, on May 8. Loans are also
being sought from countries including  China .  “We have oil in the ground, we can mortgage this oil for
money,” Yol said. Lines of credit will be used to give
importers access to foreign currency to buy goods including
fuel, and future loans will allow the government to release
dollars into the economy to fight inflation, he said.  South  Sudan , which seceded from Sudan in July, halted oil
output in January after accusing the Khartoum government of
stealing $815 million worth of its crude from a pipeline to a
port on the  Red Sea . Sudan said it confiscated the oil to make
up for unpaid fees. South Sudan gained control of about 75
percent of the previously united country’s 490,000 barrels a day
of output at independence and crude sales accounted for 98
percent of South Sudan’s government revenue before the shutdown.  Inflation Surge  South Sudan’s inflation rate jumped to 50.9 percent in
March from 21.3 percent in February, the country’s statistics
office said last month. The South Sudanese pound, which
officially trades at 2.95 per dollar, plunged to 5 per dollar on
the black market from 3.5 in January, according to an April 27
report by  Standard Chartered Bank Plc. (STAN)   “The current situation highlights the vulnerable position
of the authorities because of an over-reliance on oil exports
for foreign exchange,” the London-based lender said.  The World Bank said in a statement on May 7 it is “deeply
concerned with the economic and development impact of the
unresolved oil issues” between South Sudan and Sudan. “The
World Bank’s economic analysis unambiguously shows that it is in
the interests of both countries to resume talks urgently and
resolve their ongoing dispute.”  The Sudan Tribune, a Paris-based news website, on May 8
posted what it said were two World Bank  documents  in which the
Washington-based lender said South Sudan faces a “dramatic
contraction” in its gross domestic product, a “massive
depreciation” of its currency and an “exponential rise in
inflation.” Reserves may be depleted by July, “at which point
state collapse becomes a real possibility,” according to the
documents.  No Comment  The  World Bank  won’t comment on whether the documents are
authentic and its May 7 statement will be the only official
comment on the issue, Peter Warutere, a Nairobi-based spokesman,
said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  Yol dismissed fears of an economic collapse. The government
has a short-term strategy of offsetting oil revenue losses by
borrowing; a medium-term strategy of building two oil refineries
to meet domestic demand and trucking excess oil to neighbouring
countries for export; and a long-term plan to construct
pipelines that would allow it to avoid using those running
across Sudan.  The pound’s value is being affected by uncertainty about
where the government will acquire foreign exchange after losing
revenue from oil production, Yol said.  ‘Speculation’  “The system is being driven by speculation” and adjusting
the official  exchange rate  to bring it in line with the black
market would only create more uncertainty, he said. Instead, the
government plans to stabilize the currency by injecting foreign
exchange into the economy obtained from the loans it’s
negotiating.  Rob Borthwick, an analyst at Maplecroft, the London-based
risk analysis company, said tensions between the two countries
make the resumption of oil production unlikely for two years.
Loans may stabilize the government, though the debt would
increase pressure to resume exports, he said in an e-mailed
response to questions on May 9.  “Trucking oil large distances along poorly maintained
roads and through unstable regions clearly poses significant
risks,” he said. “However, given South Sudan’s dire
macroeconomic situation, diminished returns remain better than
none.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 