-- S. African Banks Test Debt Plan as Lenders Face Loan Haircut
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-05-10T17:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/south-africa-banks-agree-on-relief-trial-for-poorest-debtors.html
South Africa ’s biggest  lenders  agreed
with the government on a trial program that would cut interest
on 14 billion rand ($1.8 billion) of loans to some of their most
indebted customers, the head of the banks’ lobby group said.  Loans to people in debt-counseling programs will be
rescheduled over five years, Cas Coovadia, head of the Banking
Association of South Africa, said in an interview at the  World
Economic Forum on Africa  in  Addis Ababa ,  Ethiopia . South
Africa’s credit and antitrust regulators are both “on board”
with the pilot project, he said.  “We may be able to restructure the debts of 70 percent”
of those South African consumer-bank customers who are in
arrears and in credit counseling, Coovadia said. “Haircuts will
have to be taken.”  South Africa’s four largest banks, including  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s
Absa Group Ltd. and  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , have seen bad-debt
levels stay elevated even as the nation’s central bank has held
interest rates steady since the end of 2010, limiting the burden
on borrowers. With policy makers expected to raise rates this
year to restrain inflation, loan books may sour further.  “The first step to restructure will be to reduce interest
rates charged to the repurchase rate over five years,” Coovadia
said. “If people still can’t do that, then the  interest rate 
drops to zero.”  All South African banks and some retailers will be ready to
test the program by the end of June, according to Coovadia.  Looser Criteria  The total number of consumers with impaired credit records
increased by 100,000 to 8.93 million in the fourth quarter of
last year, the National Credit Regulator said in March.  The lenders have been targeting low-income people to boost
sales. In 2009, Standard Bank Group Ltd. said it would loosen
loan criteria for mortgages and credit cards.  Some 23 percent of people in South Africa live below the
poverty line, according to the  World Bank , and central bank
statistics show the nation’s savings as a percentage of
 household income  was zero in the third quarter of last year.  “I am aware of the National Credit Act changes being
considered and to be piloted,” said Louis von Zeuner, deputy
chief executive officer of  Absa (ASA) , South Africa’s largest consumer
bank. Absa reported a credit loss ratio of 1.01 percent in 2011.
That’s almost double the figure reported in 2007, before the
financial crisis began.  “That banks are looking at the serious problem of high
indebtedness is to be welcomed,” said Luke Doig, an economist
at Credit Guarantee Insurance Corp. of Africa Ltd., by telephone
from Johannesburg. “The more people that can carry on
economically without impaired credit records, the better.”  Rate Risk  Nedbank, which posted a 26 percent increase in first
quarter profit, failed to reduce impaired debt as much as some
analysts had anticipated.  The “industry would be looking to pilot a voluntary debt
mediation” that “should result in faster resolution with less
legal costs,” Nedbank Chief Executive Officer  Mike Brown  said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  Four out of six economists surveyed by Bloomberg estimate
that interest rates will rise by 50 basis points in the fourth
quarter of this year.  “If interest rates go up, the non-performing loans are
going to go up,” Sizwe Nxasana, head of South Africa’s second-
largest financial services company,  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  said in a
Feb. 28 interview. “We’re focusing on better customers, better
pricing and margins.”  While economic growth appears to be sustainable and
moderate, there is little or no room to lower rates given South
African inflation is at the top end of the target range, central
bank Governor Gill Marcus said on May 7. The cost of a liter of
gasoline has risen every month since February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  