-- Spain Imposes 30 Billion Euros of Provisions on Banks
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-05-11T17:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/spain-stakes-credibility-on-fourth-bank-cleanup-in-three-years.html
Spain  will force banks to increase
provisions against real estate loans by about 30 billion euros
($38 billion) and will hire two auditors to value lenders’
assets in a fourth attempt to clean up the industry.  Banks will have to raise provisions on 123 billion euros of
real estate-linked loans that are still performing to 30 percent
from 7 percent on average, and the government will provide funds
for those that need support, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
said today in Madrid.  The state will inject less than 15 billion euros into
struggling banks, and the funds won’t add to the  budget deficit ,
he said. The government will also force all banks to move
foreclosed real estate assets into separately managed companies
so they can be sold, he said.  “It’s a step in the right direction and they have made
good progress on the real estate issue,” said Tobias Blattner,
an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets in  London . “Even so, the
focus is still on real estate and to restore confidence they
need to broaden it out to consumer and business loans given the
shrinking economy and rising unemployment.”  The latest bid to cleanse the banking system after efforts
in 2010, 2011 and February this year is part of Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy ’s effort to quell doubts about hidden losses at
lenders that have driven up the country’s borrowing costs.  Bankia Takeover  Spain’s 10-year bond yield jumped to 6.05 percent after the
measures were announced, before retreating to 6 percent.  Banking shares initially dropped, before paring losses.
 Banco Santander SA (SAN) , the country’s largest lender, fell 1 percent
to 4.87 euros, after declining as much as 5.5 percent.  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  slipped 1.3 percent to 5.24 euros,
trimming a loss of 6 percent.  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  fell as
much as 6.4 percent and closed 1.5 percent lower at 2.13 euros.
A Popular spokesman said the bank wouldn’t take state aid as a
result of the additional provisions.  CaixaBank SA (CABK)  closed 1.1
percent lower after falling as much as 3.6 percent.  Today’s announcement follows the state’s May 9 takeover of
 Bankia (BKIA) , the banking group with the most real estate, in another
step to bolster confidence in a financial system burdened by 184
billion euros of assets the Bank of Spain terms “problematic.”  “These measures offer an effective response to the
vulnerabilities of the banking system while appropriately
providing greater transparency and differentiating the needs of
the various financial institutions,” International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in a statement
today.  More Provisions  Spain will boost provisioning on still-good land assets to
52 percent from the 7 percent level set for all types of real
estate risk in February, de Guindos said. It will raise the
coverage level on loans linked to unfinished buildings to 29
percent and to 14 percent for finished homes. The new rules will
raise coverage for real estate assets to 45 percent, he said.  De Guindos said banks will have a month from today to say
how they will meet the provisioning requirements, which come on
top of the 53.8 billion euros of charges and capital ordered by
the government in the previous cleanup effort in February.  A spokesman for  Banco Sabadell SA (SAB)  said by phone today it
could make the provisions this year and stay profitable. The
Spanish Banking Association said in an emailed statement its
members wouldn’t seek state aid to meet the requirements.  The state will step in through its bank rescue fund, known
as FROB, to buy shares or contingent convertible bonds of banks
that struggle to meet the requirements, said de Guindos.  Property Split  Under the program, which he said will be profitable for the
government, banks that borrow will have to pay 10 percent
interest and repay the aid within five years. The “Co-Co”
bonds will be an “adequate” way to channel FROB funds to
lenders that need them, the Spanish Association of Savings Banks
said in an emailed statement.  All banks will also have to spin off foreclosed real estate
into asset management companies. Spain is providing a “tool”
for banks to do so and it would be “predictable and desirable”
that investors put money into them, de Guindos said.  Spain may offer financial support to encourage investors to
buy into the vehicles, Economy Ministry officials said today,
adding that the type of mechanism to do so hasn’t been
determined. While it will be obligatory to create separately
managed vehicles, banks won’t be forced to deconsolidate the
units, the Economy Ministry officials said.  Santander Chief Executive Officer Alfredo Saenz said on
April 26 that Spain’s biggest bank didn’t need a so-called “bad
bank” to park real estate.  ‘Significant Step’  The auditors chosen to carry out the asset valuations will
be of “maximum international prestige,” said de Guindos. He
declined to identify them. The valuations they carry out will be
similar to a  stress test  and won’t be an asset-by-asset
analysis, the Economy Ministry officials said.  “It’s a significant step in the right direction,
particularly the approval of an independent audit, and provides
a measure of reassurance that Spain is coming to grips with its
banking troubles,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy, a consulting firm in London specializing in
sovereign-credit risk, said in an e-mail. “Yet this is not the
definitive clean-up framework that the market is clamoring
for.”  The government will be alert to potential conflicts of
interest in choosing auditors to appraise the value of banks’
assets, de Guindos said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  