-- Statoil Sees Shah Deniz Investment Decision in a Year’s Time
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2012-05-10T12:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/statoil-sees-shah-deniz-investment-decision-in-a-year-s-time.html
Statoil ASA (STL) , a partner in the Shah
Deniz 2 gas field off Azerbaijan, expects the development group
to make a final  investment decision  in mid-2013 as Europe seeks
to tap the fuel to ease dependence on Russian supply.  The Norwegian company and the rest of the BP Plc-led group
must decide on pipeline routes before agreeing on investment,
Lars Sorensen, president of Statoil Azerbaijan, said today in
the Azeri capital, Baku. “We cannot sanction the project and
start big investments unless we have a transportation route.”  Proposed pipelines including Nabucco, the South East Europe
Pipeline and the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline are competing for gas
from Shah Deniz, whose partners will select a route by mid-2013,
BP Vice President for Shah Deniz Al Cook said in April.  Europe ,
which gets 25 percent of its gas from  Russia , is seeking to add
sources after suffering supply halts in the past six years.  About $23 billion to $24 billion will be invested in
producing gas from Shah Deniz 2, estimated to hold 1.2 trillion
cubic meters of the fuel, Lorensen said. The second phase of the
Caspian Sea project will expand its current production of 9
billion cubic meters a year by 16 billion cubic meters.  Shah Deniz 2 is due to start output in late 2017 or early
2018. Apart from BP and Statoil, the project partners include
 France ’s Total SA and State Oil Co. of  Azerbaijan , or Socar.  Turkish Pipeline  Socar has an 80 percent stake in the Trans-Anatolia
Pipeline, which is designed to carry Shah Deniz gas across
 Turkey  and could be a “viable alternative” to the European
Union-backed Nabucco route, Sorensen said.  Azerbaijan and Turkey signed a memorandum of understanding
in December on the 2,000-kilometer (1,240-mile) pipe. Turkey’s
state pipeline company, Boru Hatlari Ile Petrol Tasima AS, and
energy producer Turkiye Petrolleri AO have a combined 20 percent
stake in the venture.  The start of Shah Deniz 2 will also necessitate the
expansion of the BP-led South Caucasus pipeline to 25 billion
cubic meters in annual capacity from 9 billion cubic meters,
Lorensen said. The capacity can be increased to more than 60
billion cubic meters a year if more gas becomes available from
Azerbaijan or  Turkmenistan , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  