-- Sugar Cane Grows on Oil as $71 Billion Bet Outspends D.C.
-- B y   K e n   W e l l s
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/sugar-cane-grows-on-big-oil-as-71-billion-bet-outspends-d-c-.html
BP Plc (BP/)  has invested $7 billion in
alternative energy since 2005.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is spending
$600 million on a 10-year effort to turn algae into oil. And
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  has been buying up sugar cane mills,
plantations and refineries to make ethanol in  Brazil .  In the U.S., Shell already produces small lots of so-called
drop-in biofuels--engine-ready products that can replace
gasoline from a plant in Houston that uses sugar beets and crop
waste.  On the way to a renewable energy future, a funny thing has
happened: Big Oil has become the biggest investor in the race to
create green fuels, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its May 14
issue. In the last decade, the industry says, it has put
$71 billion into zero- and low-emission and renewable energy
technologies. The U.S. government, by contrast, has spent about
$43 billion on similar efforts during the same period, according
to the  American Petroleum Institute , a trade group.  “We are making huge bets” on biofuels and also investing
in wind and solar, says Katrina Landis, chief executive officer
of Houston-based BP Alternative Energy, noting that her division
has grown to 5,000 employees from a handful in 2005.  Many environmentalists doubt these investments represent
more than window dressing. An API  report  shows $9 billion of the
$71 billion is for renewable energy while the rest has gone
toward greening up companies’ fossil-fuel business. The industry
has, after all, bankrolled research casting doubt on  climate
change  while lobbying to defeat a White House-backed climate
bill in 2010, says Simon Mui, a scientist with the  Natural
Resources Defense Council .  Green Spending Incentive  “Their interest is a validation of the promise of
cleantech,” he says. “But I don’t want to imply that this is
something we should be falling out of our chairs over.”  The investments are less impressive, Mui says, when
measured against profits -- Irving, Texas-based ExxonMobil
reported 2011 net income of $41 billion -- and the money the
companies still devote to the hunt for conventional oil and gas.
Mui estimates the industry has spent about $341 billion
developing  tar sands , which contain heavy crude that is energy-
intensive to recover and refine, over the same period that it
touts its $71 billion in carbon reduction and renewables.  The API dismisses such criticisms, saying it put together
the report on clean investing to dispel the notion the industry
isn’t interested in climate change or reducing  greenhouse gases .  There’s also an incentive for green spending: the Renewable
Fuel Standard. A law signed by President  George W. Bush  in 2005
now requires about 15 billion gallons of alternative fuels such
as ethanol in the nation’s energy mix annually, and that number
is mandated to grow to 36 billion gallons by 2022. (U.S. drivers
consumed about 134 billion gallons of gasoline last year,
according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.)  Making Money  Oil and gas companies, the law says, are among the
“obligated parties‘” to help the U.S. reach these goals.  “Inside these companies the thinking is, ‘We can’t get
caught out without having an answer and a way to meet our
obligations,’” says Wesley Bolsen, chief marketing officer for
Codexis Inc., a  Redwood City , California-based enzyme maker that
has a five-year-old partnership with Shell. “In some ways they
can’t afford not to invest. On the other hand, I think a lot of
 oil companies  today think, ‘If we do this right, we can make a
lot of money.’”  For Sheeraz Haji, CEO of San Francisco-based Cleantech
Group LLC, a 10-year-old consulting firm, the investments
represent pragmatism, since companies see that long term they
won’t be able to meet demand with conventional oil and gas.  ‘Economically Rational’  While PR concerns are a factor, with cleantech providing
cover for carbon-centric core businesses, Haji also says it’s a
matter of pride and fear. He says oil companies, with their
technological prowess at deepwater drilling and the like, don’t
want to be seen as stodgy -- or worse, to wake up to find the
renewables world exploding with profits they aren’t sharing.  “We’re not talking about oil companies turning into green
activists,” says Haji. “It’s tied to their view that this is
economically rational.” And the scale of their investments is
immense. Sizing up Exxon’s algae play, he says, “$600 million
is big money. Maybe it’s not big dollars to Exxon, but it’s
still big dollars for the sector.”  Exxon’s algae project is a partnership with  La Jolla ,
California-based Synthetic Genomics Inc., co-founded by human
genome pioneer J. Craig Venter. On paper, algae has a lot going
for it. It produces energy-storing molecules called lipids
similar to those extracted from crude oil, and it can be grown
in saltwater on marginal land, so it won’t compete for fresh
water or valuable farm acreage.  Winning Over Skeptics  While the project, in its third year, recently moved out of
a San Diego greenhouse to an outdoor facility in  Texas , Exxon
says billions more in research dollars are needed before it will
know whether commercial production is possible.  Shell’s partnership with Codexis uses enzymes to turn
grass, stalks and sugar cane waste into biofuels; The Hague-
based Shell has so far put about $60 million a year into the
project. Such research portends the production of renewable
fuels without displacing food crops. And there’s a ready supply
of raw material: The Department of Agriculture estimates U.S.
farms produce 1 billion tons of crop residue each year.  Mark Brownstein, chief counsel for the Environmental
Defense Fund’s energy program, warns that Big Oil will have
trouble winning over skeptics. “This is an incredibly
conservative and hard-headed industry,” he says. “They have a
lot to prove before people are willing to believe that there has
been a fundamental shift about how they think about climate and
other environmental matters.”  Nonetheless, Brownstein adds, “I wish ExxonMobil all the
success in the world in figuring out how to commercialize
biofuels. That would be great for everybody.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ken Wells in  New York  at 
 Kwells8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  