-- Suspicious Medicare Bills Found at 2,600 U.S. Pharmacies
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-05-10T17:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/suspicious-medicare-bills-found-at-2-600-u-s-pharmacies.html
More than 2,600 U.S. drug stores, or
4 percent of all retail pharmacies, may have suspicious or
excessive billing to Medicare, government investigators said.  Some pharmacies dispensed unusually high percentages of
painkillers and other controlled substances or expensive brand-
name drugs, according to a  report  today from the inspector
general for the Health and Human Services Department that
analyzed claims data from 2009. Other stores billed Medicare a
per patient rate of more than 2.5 times the national average,
investigators said without naming the drug stores.  The 2,637 suspect pharmacies billed Medicare, the U.S.
health insurance program for the elderly and disabled, about
$5.6 billion in 2009. Most that had “questionable billing”
were independent stores rather than chains such as those owned
by  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  or  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , according to the report.
About 1 percent of chain drug stores and almost 11 percent of
independent shops were considered suspect, investigators said.  “While some of this billing may be legitimate, all
pharmacies that bill for such extremely high amounts warrant
further scrutiny,” investigators said.  Daniel Levinson, the inspector general for the Health and
Human Services Department, recommended that Medicare tell the
insurers who administer the program’s drug plans to report
potential fraud to the government. The companies currently
aren’t required to do so, a situation that Medicare “should
seek statutory authority” to change, Levinson said.  Medicare paid about $57 billion in 2009 for prescriptions
dispensed by about 59,000 drug stores, according to the report.  Medical Legitimacy  The report “lacks sufficient detail to evaluate the
medical legitimacy and appropriateness of the claims reviewed,”
said Kevin Schweers, a spokesman for the National Community
Pharmacists Association in Alexandria,  Virginia , a trade group
for independent pharmacies. “There could very well be
legitimate medical reasons behind many of the claims.”  Independent pharmacies serve a higher proportion of nursing
home residents and other patients with serious medical
conditions than chain pharmacies, and those patients need more
drugs than average Medicare beneficiaries, Schweers said in an
e-mail.  In addition to company reporting, Levinson said Medicare
should investigate the pharmacies in the report, and analyze
billing data to identify other stores with “a high risk for
fraud.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  