-- Syrian Opposition’s Turn to Violence Creates U.S. Dilemma
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-05-10T22:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/syrian-opposition-s-turn-to-violence-creates-u-s-dilemma.html
Syria ’s deadliest bombing to date
highlights the Obama administration’s dilemma as foes of
President Bashar al-Assad increasingly adopt tactics the U.S.
and its allies have condemned as terrorism.  No group has claimed responsibility for the double suicide
bombing outside a military intelligence building in Damascus
yesterday that killed 55 people and wounded at least 370. Since
the uprising began in March 2011, six of the 10 biggest bombings
have targeted regime security buildings, according to a list
compiled by the  Associated Press .  The Syrian opposition has begun adopting the tactics of an
armed insurgency such as suicide bombings, which can’t be
condoned, said two  United Nations  diplomats. They spoke on
condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to
comment. That shift is making it harder for the U.S. and its
allies to keep the blame focused on the Assad regime for the
violence, which persists despite a UN cease-fire agreed to by
both sides in the conflict.  “America is not going to want to have its fingerprints on
car bombs in Damascus,” said  Joshua Landis , director of the
Middle East program at the University of Oklahoma in Norman.
“America is very careful about this because they don’t want to
end up supporting terrorism, but that’s where we are headed.
Insurgencies carry out terrorist acts. You can call it something
different, but ultimately you’re blowing things up and trying to
kill as many soldiers as you can.”  Holding Assad Responsible  The arrival of a small mission of UN cease-fire observers
has reduced the violence without halting it.  State Department spokesman Victoria Nuland yesterday said
the Assad regime is responsible for the violence because it has
failed to abide by the conditions of the cease-fire.  “The degree to which that chaos, that they are leading,
also leads to other kinds of chaos, we still put responsibility
firmly at their feet,” she said of Syrian leaders.  Still, Western leaders are growing increasingly
uncomfortable as the lines between right and wrong become
blurred, according to the UN diplomats who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  “We’re looking at a very, very ambiguous gray zone, and it
does pose a real challenge to U.S. policy,” said Aram
Nerguizian, an expert on the eastern Mediterranean at the Center
for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington policy
group.  Peaceful Means  The U.S. has said it would prefer that the opposition use
peaceful means to protest. The UN estimates that more than 9,000
people have been killed since the unrest began in March 2011.  From the start, the Assad regime has blamed the unrest on
Islamic extremists with foreign backing -- which has been
disputed by the U.S. as a false justification for the government
to use military force against civilians.  Syria’s Ambassador to the UN, Bashar Jaafari, yesterday
said he’s given the UN Security Council the names of 26
terrorists and a list of 12 killed, which he said included
French, British and Belgian terrorists. The explosions yesterday
make it “apparent” that extremist groups have emerged and are
carrying out terrorist acts with greater frequency. He cited
repeated instances of  suicide bombers , booby-trapped cars and
explosive belts, he said.  “We’ve been careful since the beginning of these events to
emphasize the existence of armed groups associated with al-Qaeda
but many political parties and hostile media have cast doubts on
that,” Jaafari told the council. “Here we are witnessing it.”  Extremist Inroads  In February, al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri called in a
video for the ouster of the Assad regime, which raised concern
in the West that the conflict would become a magnet for Islamic
radicals as happened in  Iraq .  U.S. Navy Admiral Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, told reporters at the Pentagon yesterday that
while U.S. officials haven’t seen any intelligence suggesting
al-Qaeda is responsible for yesterday’s attack, “we do know
that there have been extremist elements that are trying to make
inroads in Syria.”  “That is to be distinct from the opposition -- I am not
tying those together,” he added.  “These kinds of tactics are not in keeping with what we’ve
seen from the legitimate opposition,” Nuland said of the
bombings, which stripped the facade from nearby buildings and
mangled cars. “They could be the work of spoilers or others,”
she said.  Nuland and other U.S. officials argue that the use of
violence invites Islamist extremism, erodes the opposition’s
moral advantage, raises the risks of sectarian strife, and
undermines attempts to reach a diplomatic solution.  Administration Dilemma  UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon and Special Envoy  Kofi Annan , who crafted the cease-fire agreement, have warned that
the country may spiral into a “full-scale civil war with
catastrophic effects.”  The administration’s dilemma, Nerguizian said, reflects a
lack of strategic clarity.  “Supporting the opposition at the rhetorical level is one
thing; having a clear strategy is another,” Nerguizian said in
a phone interview. “There was always a risk that the longer
this went on, the more you would see this sort of thing,”
including improvised explosive devices and involvement of
Islamic radicals.  Nuland suggested that yesterday’s attack might not be the
work of U.S.-supported opposition groups. Those include the
Syrian National Council, an umbrella opposition group, which is
directly backed by the U.S.,  Europe  and Arab nations. The SNC
funnels payments to the Syrian Free Army, a collection of loose-
knit groups of fighters within Syria.  Even as the U.S. has opposed militarizing the conflict, its
allies  Qatar  and  Saudi Arabia  have publicly called for arming
the opposition and reportedly are doing so. U.S. assistance is
limited to communications gear, medical equipment and items to
help refugees, including tents and fresh water.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  