-- Syria Capital Hit by Blasts, Causing Dozens of Casualties
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-05-10T15:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/syria-capital-hit-by-blasts-causing-dozens-of-casualties.html
At least 55 people were killed in the
Syrian capital, Damascus, in what the  Interior Ministry  said was
a double suicide-bomb attack.  Two cars containing at least 1,000 kilograms of explosives
blew up in the Qazzaz district, the Interior Ministry said,
according to the state-run SANA news agency. They brought down
the front of a building where security offices are located, sent
cars flying across the street and created two deep craters. At
least 372 people were injured, the ministry said. Glass and
debris littered the streets.  The attacks occurred as students were headed to school and
people to work, the ministry said. State television showed
footage of people removing burned bodies and inspecting mangled
cars at the scene of the explosions.  President Bashar al-Assad is fighting a nationwide
rebellion that has spread as security forces killed thousands of
Syrians during a campaign to crush protests that began in March
last year. The government has blamed the unrest on Islamic
extremists with foreign backing. The  United Nations  has sent
observers to monitor a cease-fire agreed to by both sides last
month that has reduced the violence without halting it.  UN monitors visited the site of the blast in Damascus.  Kofi Annan , the UN’s special envoy to  Syria , condemned today’s attack
in the “strongest possible terms” and renewed his call for an
end to violence, his spokesman  Ahmad Fawzi  said in an e-mailed
statement from Geneva.  ‘Reprehensible,’ Says U.S.  The U.S. also condemned the bombing in a statement issued
by State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland .  “Any and all violence that results in the indiscriminate
killing and injury of civilians is reprehensible and cannot be
justified,” she said. “In order to prevent another escalation
of violence, we continue to call on the Syrian regime to fully
and immediately implement the Annan plan.”  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said his country
won’t change its opposition to military intervention in Syria.
“Some forces are putting pressure on us to change our stand,”
Lavrov said at a news conference, according to a pool report by
reporters in Beijing. “We won’t give in.”  Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi , standing beside
Lavrov, also spoke against “interfering” with Syria, according
to the pool report.  ‘Brief Window’  After a bomb blast close to a convoy carrying the UN
mission’s chief yesterday, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told
the General Assembly that there is only a “brief window” to
end the conflict in Syria, and warned that it may escalate into
a “full-scale civil war with catastrophic effects.”  Today’s explosions rattled windows across the city and sent
a black plume of smoke into the sky. Fadia Kassar, 47, said her
daughter and son were injured from flying glass in their
apartment. “Walls came down in my apartment,” she said. “I
never expected something like this to happen in real life.”  At the Mujtahed Hospital in Damascus, people milled around
the wards and morgue seeking to identify loved ones. Some of the
injured, their skin caked with blood, were telling relatives by
phone that they were still alive. The hospital received 29
bodies and 103 injured people, as well as eight bags full of
human remains, said its manager, Adib Mahmoud.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  