-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Drops on Weak Economy Outlook
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-05-10T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/u-k-consumer-confidence-drops-on-weak-economy-outlook.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  dropped last
month and may decline further after the economy slipped into a
double-dip recession, according to  Nationwide Building Society .  An index of sentiment fell to 44 from 53 in March, the
Swindon, England-based customer-owned lender said in an e-mailed
report today. A gauge of consumers’ expectations for the economy
also plunged. The survey was conducted before data on April 25
showed the economy shrank for a second quarter in the three
months through March.  The index signals “ongoing caution on the part of U.K.
consumers,” said  Robert Gardner , chief economist at Nationwide.
“It’s not surprising that confidence remains fragile, with the
economy shrinking over the past six months and labor market
conditions still weak.”  Retailers including  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  and  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) 
have described the situation as “uncertain” as the economy
falters and unemployment stays close to a 16-year high. Still,
with inflation concerns growing, the  Bank of England  yesterday
resisted expanding stimulus.  A gauge of Britons’ outlook for the economy fell to 60 in
April from 73 in March, Nationwide said. Their assessment of
current economic and employment conditions slipped to 21 from 24
and a measure of whether it’s a good time to make a  major
purchase , such as a house or car, declined to 75 from 86.  Gardner said one-time factors may affect sentiment in the
coming months. While news of the  double-dip recession  “may
further depress” the gauge in the near term, the Olympics and
Queen Elizabeth II’s jubilee may “lift consumer spirits.”  “Whether or not these short‐term fillips translate into a
sustained upturn in confidence will depend on the performance of
the wider economy,” he said.  The Bank of England held its  bond-purchase target  at 325
billion pounds ($526 billion), ending a second round of
stimulus. Officials also left the benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  