-- U.K. House Prices Decline for First Time in Five Months
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-10T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/u-k-house-prices-decline-for-first-time-in-five-months.html
U.K.  house prices  dropped for the
first time in five months in April as demand weakened after the
end of a  tax exemption  on purchases for first-time buyers,
Acadametrics Ltd. and  LSL Property Services Plc (LSL)  said.  The average price of a home in England and  Wales  fell 0.2
percent from March to 220,668 pounds ($357,000), the groups said
in an e-mailed report in London today. From a year earlier,
values were down 0.7 percent.  The  property market  is struggling to recover as tight
lending conditions, high unemployment and falling  consumer
confidence  undermine demand. Still,  Bank of England  policy
makers halted their stimulus expansion yesterday as inflation
risks outweighed concerns about an economy that has succumbed to
its first double-dip recession since 1975.  “There is little to suggest that we will see any sharp
rise in prices and, with continued tight access to mortgages,
demand will remain suppressed,” Acadametrics Chairman Peter Williams said in the report. “The mood seems to have become
more negative most recently with some arguing we have seen the
best of 2012 already.”  Out of the 10 regions tracked by Acadametrics and LSL, all
apart from  London  and East Midlands saw their average values
decline on an annual basis in the three months through March,
the latest month with regional data.  Nationwide Building Society  said today that its  consumer
confidence index  dropped to 44 in April from 53 in March and may
decline further this month. Consumers have also become more
pessimistic about the housing market, forecasting a 0.2 percent
decline in prices over the next six months.  Price Outlook  Demand for property was boosted earlier this year as first-
time buyers rushed to beat the end of a tax exemption on some
houses in March. Acadametrics and LSL said the number of
transactions probably dropped 18 percent in April. They combine
initial transaction data from the  Land Registry  and results from
other price measures for their index of values.  Rightmove Plc, the operator of the U.K.’s biggest property
website, said in a separate report that one in three people
forecast a gain in house prices in the next year, compared with
one in four in its previous quarterly survey. The proportion of
people predicting an increase was the highest since the third
quarter of 2010.  Still, almost half thought prices were overvalued,
according to the poll of 41,421 people carried out April 2-16,
Rightmove said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  