-- U.K. Makes F-35 U-Turn to Cut Costs, Narrow Carrier-Defense Gap
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-05-10T11:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/u-k-makes-f-35-u-turn-to-cut-costs-narrow-carrier-defense-gap.html
Britain will equip its aircraft
carriers with a jump-jet variant of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35
Joint Strike Fighter after a government U-turn aimed at reducing
shipbuilding costs and the gap until the vessels are deployed.  The U.K. will buy short takeoff, vertical landing F-35Bs,
as chosen by the U.S. Marine Corps, after reversing a plan to
take the ‘C’ version, launched with a catapult and arrester-wire
system that would have added 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) in
unforeseen costs to the carriers, the Ministry of Defence said.  Opting for jump-jets means the F-35 can be deployed in 2018
and fully operational by 2020, wiping three years from the time
Britain will be without a carrier jet-force after the retirement
of its Harrier fleet last year. The plane is also more viable
after the U.S. ended a two-year “probation period” imposed on
the model, Defense Secretary Philip Hammond said today.  “When the facts change you have to be willing to change
your mind,” Hammond told Parliament in  London , adding that 40
million pounds was spent on the ‘C’ variant before the U-turn.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in October 2010 that his
government would scrap the previous Labour administration’s
decision in favor of the F-35B and would instead buy the so-
called “cats and traps” ‘C’ version ordered by the U.S. Navy.  Magnetic Power  Cameron said then that only one carrier, HMS Prince of
 Wales , due in 2019, would be redesigned to the take the planes,
with the required gear, utilizing magnetic power rather than
proven steam-driven technology, likely to cost several hundred
million pounds, according to people familiar with the plans.  Sister vessel HMS  Queen Elizabeth  would enter service in
2016 but carry only helicopters, not planes, leaving a gap of
eight years during which Britain would lack carrier-based jets.
Opting for jump-jets means the Queen Elizabeth will be able to
use the F-35 and give the government time to decide what it
plans to do with the Prince of Wales.  Hammond’s Labour Party opposite  Jim Murphy  told Parliament
that Cameron’s original decision had been “high risk and high
cost” and the result of ministers overruling military experts.  “The prime minister’s decisions have cost British time,
money, talent and prestige,” Murphy said.  Liam Fox , Britain’s then-defense secretary, also said at
the time that the F-35B was less practical because it would
dictate a design of ship from which American and French navy
planes could not operate.  France  is satisfied with the U.K.’s
commitment to interoperability, Hammond said today.  The reconsideration of the F-35B was a “relatively new
development” driven by “national U.K. financial constraints”
and the cost of modifying the carriers to take the F-35C, U.S.
Navy Vice Admiral David Venlet, the program manager for the JSF,
said in a March interview after a presentation to a Credit
Suisse conference on defense programs in Arlington, Virginia.  The U.K. is one of the U.S.’s eight partners on the $382
billion JSF program, the Pentagon’s most expensive. The others
are  Australia , Turkey,  Italy , the Netherlands,  Canada , Denmark
and Norway.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  