-- U.K. March Manufacturing Increases More-Than-Forecast 0.9%
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-05-10T08:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/u-k-march-manufacturing-increases-more-than-forecast-0-9-.html
U.K.  manufacturing output  rose more
than economists forecast in March as producers of chemicals,
transport equipment and electronics led a recovery from
disruptions caused by snowfall the previous month.  Factory output rose 0.9 percent from February, when it fell
a downwardly revised 1.1 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in London. The median of 29 economists
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for an increase of 0.5
percent. Overall industrial production including utilities and
mines fell 0.3 percent.  Manufacturing prospects remain uncertain as government-
spending cuts sap  consumer spending  and the deepening euro-
region crisis erodes demand in the biggest market for British
goods. That’s led some economists to doubt that trade and
investment will provide the boost to the economy envisaged by
official forecasters.  “This is a bounce back,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist
at  Scotia Capital  in London. “Things are not looking as good as
we hoped for manufacturers. Our main trading partners,
particularly the eurozone, are in recession. It’s all very well
to be competitive but you need someone to buy the stuff.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
report and was trading as $1.6118 as of 9:45 a.m. in London,
down 0.1 percent on the day.  Stimulus Program  The economy’s return to recession has revived expectations
the  Bank of England  will expand its emergency  stimulus program ,
with eight of 51 economists in a Bloomberg survey predicting the
central bank may move as early as today. Most expect policy
makers to leave their bond-buying plan at 325 billion pounds
($523 billion). The decision will be announced at noon.  The pickup in manufacturing in March suggests output
rebounded after being hit by  widespread snowfall  in central and
eastern  England  in the first half of February. Out of 13
categories in manufacturing, eight rose, four declined and one
was unchanged. The biggest gains were in chemicals, transport
equipment and computers and electronic and optical products.  Overall  industrial production  was depressed as the warmest
March for half a century reduced demand for energy and oil and
gas extraction fell.  Below Peak  In the first quarter, manufacturing output was unchanged
compared with the 0.1 percent fall estimated in gross domestic
product figures last month. Industrial production fell an
unrevised 0.4 percent. The revision to manufacturing has no
impact on GDP in the first quarter, the statistics office said.  Unlike  Germany  and the U.S., Britain has failed to recover
the  output lost  in the previous recession and many forecasters
including the Confederation of British Industry expect growth
this year to fall short of the 0.8 percent predicted by the
 Office for Budget Responsibility  in March.  The economy shrank for a second straight quarter between
January and March and surveys last week indicated manufacturing,
services and construction weakened in April. Output is expected
to be depressed further in the current quarter by an extra
public holiday in June to mark Queen Elizabeth II’s 60 years on
the throne.  In the euro region, which buys 40 percent of U.K. exports,
prospects are worsening. The German economy turned negative at
the end of 2011 and Italy, Spain, the Netherlands and Ireland
are all back in recession. Weekend elections in  Greece  sparked
market turmoil by raising renewed doubts the country can stay in
the euro.  Manufacturing is also under pressure from rising energy
prices, which is squeezing profits and eroding household
incomes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  