-- U.K. Stocks Rise as FTSE 100 Index Snaps Three-Day Drop
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-05-10T16:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/u-k-stocks-decline-before-boe-policy-decisions.html
U.K. stocks  advanced, with the
benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  snapping three days of losses, led by a
rebound in mining companies and banks.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  paced commodity stocks higher amid
speculation that China will take steps to boost economic growth.
 Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  tumbled 3.5 percent after
shareholder JAB Holdings BV sold a stake at a discount.  The benchmark FTSE 100 Index added 0.3 percent to 5,543.95
at the close in London, after falling yesterday at the lowest
level since December. The FTSE All-Share Index rose 0.4 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 0.6 percent.  “Investor sentiment towards stocks improved slightly today
as bargain hunters emerged from the sidelines,” said  Angus Campbell , head of market analysis at Capital Spreads. “European
indices have suffered such big losses in the past few days that
it was inevitable that a rally would ensue.”  The FTSE 100 fell for a third day yesterday as investors
awaited a resolution to the political impasse in  Greece  and as
Spanish credit risk surged. The gauge has erased all of its
gains this year amid renewed concern policy makers in the euro
region are struggling to contain the debt crisis.  Bank of England officials today halted stimulus expansion
after seven months of bond purchases as the threat of inflation
trumped concerns about the economy.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor
 Mervyn King  held its quantitative easing target at 325 billion
pounds ($525 billion), a move forecast by the majority of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Officials also left the
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.  Kazakhmys, ARM Holdings  Kazakhmys rose 2.2 percent to 776 pence, Vedanta Resources
Plc increased 2.7 percent to 1,118 pence and Rio Tinto Group
gained 0.7 percent to 3,149.5 pence.  Copper advanced for the first time in six days on
speculation  China  may take steps to spur expansion after data
showed imports and exports rose less than economists estimated
and inbound shipments of the metal dropped last month.  “We expect Beijing to step up easing measures in the
coming months, including additional quantitative monetary easing
via open market operation and a reserve-ratio requirement cut in
the coming weeks, if not days,” HSBC Holdings Plc economists
Sun Junwei and Qu Hongbin wrote in a report after the Chinese
data.  Lloyds Banking Group jumped 4.3 percent to 31.2 pence,
rebounding from yesterday’s biggest two-day selloff since
November. Barclays Plc rallied 3.2 percent to 208.8 pence,
snapping a five-day selloff, and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc advanced 1.9 percent to 23.05 pence.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  jumped 4.1 percent to 507.5 pence after
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. upgraded the chip designer’s shares
to market perform, the equivalent of a neutral recommendation.
 Seymour Pierce  also initiated coverage with a buy rating.  “ARM appears set to extend its leading positions in the
mobile phone and data storage markets across other consumer
electronics and low power applications,” Seymour Pierce analyst
 Ian Robertson  wrote in a report.  Old Mutual Assets  Old Mutual Plc (OML)  rose 4 percent to 149.7 pence after the
financial-services provider said funds under management rose 6
percent to 284.2 billion pounds in the three months through
March.  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI)  rallied 12 percent to 33.75 pence, the
most since August. The publisher of the U.K.’s Daily Mirror
tabloid gave an “encouraging” first-quarter trading update,
according to Barclays Plc, which said that advertising revenue
in March and April didn’t deteriorate.  Reckitt lost 3.5 percent to 3,440 pence. JAB sold 36
million Reckitt shares, or a 4.9 percent stake, for 3,350 pence
apiece, according to Bank of America Corp. who managed the deal.
That’s 6 percent less than yesterday’s closing price.  JAB, the U.K. company’s largest shareholder, said it
doesn’t plan to sell a further stake in the maker of Dettol
handwash for at least one year.  Experian Plc (EXPN)  fell 4.3 percent to 910 pence after the
credit-checking company reported a rising tax rate and as the
company agreed to sell its price comparison shopping unit
PriceGrabber to Ybrant Digital Ltd. for $175 million. Analysts
at Jefferies Group Inc. said the loss on the sale of the unit
may cut earnings per share by 1 percent to 3 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  