-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending May 8 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-05-10T19:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-may-8-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
National Weather Service (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/ .  Weather Summary: The prior week featured a couple of storm
systems that produced significant rains across the Pacific
Northwest, Upper and Middle Mississippi River Valley, and Ohio
Valley.   Early in the week, precipitation spread eastward along
a warm front that extended from the Northern Great Plains to the
Northeast.  South of the warm front, some tropical moisture was
able to stream northward across the southeast.  Later in the
week, precipitation was focused along a cold front that moved
from the Great Plains to the east coast by Tuesday.  The Northeast and mid-Atlantic:  Significant rains fell across
many portions of the northeast, with some parts of Pennsylvania
receiving nearly 3.0 inches of rain (0.5 - 1.5 inches was more
common across  New Jersey  and  New York ).  Much of the rainfall
occurred west of the Appalachians, missing the driest areas
along the coast.  Where the rains did encroach on the areas
depicted in moderate (D1) or severe (D2) drought, the rains were
not enough to bring the 30-day totals back to near normal.  As a
result, the drought depiction remained nearly unchanged, except
for some improvement where the rainfall totals were higher (1.0-
3.6 inches) across Pennsylvania, west of the Susquehanna River.
Rains continued to fall across the region near the data cutoff.  Across Maryland, dry conditions continued, with the moderate
drought conditions being expanded westward to near the triple
point of Virginia,  Maryland , and West Virginia.  The Southeast and Tennessee Valley:  A plume of tropical
moisture moved northward across the  Gulf of Mexico  and brought
heavy rains to portions of Alabama, Florida, Louisiana and
western Georgia.  The rains prompted some trimming of each
drought level across southwestern Alabama and extreme western
Florida.  Extreme drought was removed from Okaloosa and Santa
Rosa Counties in Florida, and along the I-65 corridor, north of
Mobile.  As a result of isolated convective rains (1.0 - 2.4
inches), reductions in the coverage of drought conditions were
also pursued across west-central Georgia and eastern Alabama.  Across northeastern Florida, the rains missed the areas already
under severe or extreme drought, so D4 (exceptional drought) was
expanded to cover Saint Johns county.  Additional expansion of
D3 (extreme drought) was included over Flagler County.
Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI) values for the past 3
months indicate moderate drought, but SPI values keyed to longer
periods of record (6, 9, and 12 months) all indicate extreme or
exceptional drought across this region.  Most of the rains with the cold front later in the week fell
west of the Appalachians, resulting in the trimming away of
small areas of D0 (abnormal dryness) across  Tennessee .  What
rains did make it across the southern Appalachians; to the
Carolinas were enough to stem the tide of drought.  No changes
were pursued across  North Carolina  or  South Carolina .  The Ohio Valley and Midwest:  Moderate drought conditions
expanded over eastern Missouri and western Kentucky, where
severe drought was introduced across Caldwell and Hopkins
counties.  Drought indicators, such as SPI values for 3 months
and Percent of normal Precipitation for 90-days or less,
indicate much drier conditions than indicators based on longer
time periods.  Percent of normal precipitation at 30 and 60 days
were used to shape the current depiction, with SPI being used to
determine the intensity.  Due to recent rains (0.75 - 5.0 inches) and some moistening of
soils, improvements to the drought conditions were pursued
across Indiana and Illinois.  A 1-category improvement was made
across this region.   Land Data Assimilation System (LDAS) data
from  NASA  continues to depict surface and root zone soil
moisture as below normal, but showed increased wetness compared
to last week.  The Northern Plains: Improvements were also indicated from the
Northern Great Lakes region to the northern Great Plains.
Recent rains (1.0 - 5.0 inches) prompted 1 and locally 2-
category improvements over Iowa and southern Minnesota.  Across
Iowa, precipitation since July 15, 2011 (a period of unusually
dry weather for NW Iowa) still shows substantial deficits (only
64 percent of normal except for a few scattered counties).
However, stream flows have rebounded a great deal and soil
moisture has also increased substantially with recent rains.  Across Nebraska, long-term deficits in precipitation and soil
moisture are still prevalent.  To maintain current conditions,
which means receiving rainfall at climatological levels, areas
of Nebraska would need to receive nearly 1 inch per week
Anything less, combined with increasing agricultural needs (0.20
inches per day for corn fields), would lead to a drying of the
soils.  Across the Dakotas and much of Minnesota and Wisconsin, further
reductions in drought coverage were depicted.  Heavy rain came
to eastern  South Dakota  (top national CoCoRaHS report of 6.22
inches as of Sunday morning).  This fell right on the D1 region
in eastern South Dakota.  Across Wisconsin and the UP of
Michigan, SPI values out to 9 months, and precipitation
departures from normal over the past 30 and 60 days, were used
to redefine the drought depiction.  Moderate drought is now
impacting a smaller area.  Central and Southern Plains:  Reductions in the coverage of
exceptional (D4) and extreme (D3) drought were made across
western Texas and southeastern New Mexico.  Rains this week were
not exceptional, but a recent wet pattern has helped to
alleviate some of the dryness across that region.  Heavy rains
across central Texas, occurring right up to the data-cutoff,
prompted improvements there, but poor groundwater storage and
slowly responding reservoir levels continue to mitigate the
recovery, so the only modest reductions in coverage were
indicated.  Across southwestern Kansas, River Forecast Center (RFC)
precipitation data indicated small pockets of significant rains
(0.5 - 1.5 inches), so small areas of D0 and D1 were removed.  The West: Across  Utah , moderate and severe drought conditions
were expanded across the western portions of the state.  Data
from the United States Department of Agriculture, Natural
Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) continued to indicate low
snow-water equivalent (SWE) values across most of the state.
The conditions are impacting inflows into the major reservoirs
across Utah and Colorado.  Recent wetness across the Pacific Northwest and Northern Rockies
(30 and 60-day periods) resulted in the removal of some D0 from
Oregon,  Washington , and eastern  Montana .  The rains have missed
much of central and western Montana,  Idaho , and  Nevada  as the
moisture is squeezed out over the higher terrain.  As a result,
some areas of abnormal dryness were added to Idaho,  Wyoming , and
central Montana.  The drought impact lines were also redrawn
over Nevada and Utah to indicate the lengthening of this dry
period beyond 6 months.  Hawaii ,  Alaska  and Puerto Rico:  No changes were made to the
depictions of drought across Alaska, Hawaii, or Puerto Rico.
Rainfall totals exceeded 2.0 inches at many reporting stations
across Puerto Rico.  Windward showers helped to keep drought
confined on Hawaii.  Southern portions of Alaska remained wet,
but interior portions are starting to become dry, so this area
will be closely monitored.  Looking Ahead:   National Weather Service  forecasts indicate an
active southern storm track during the next 5 days with soaking
rains (locally near 4 inches) forecast across Texas and the
western Gulf Coast states.  Remnants of cold front are also
anticipated to bring another period of wet weather to the
northeast.  Beyond this upcoming week, forecasts from the
Climate Prediction Center indicate higher than normal chances
for wet conditions across the Southeast and Central Rockies.
Dry conditions are expected to continue from  Arizona  to Oregon,
and across the Great Lakes, with the odds for warm conditions
across the northern tier of the contiguous 48 states.  Forecasts
for Alaska indicate a wet pattern for the southern portions of
the state. 