-- S&P 500 Falls to 2-Month Low as Banks Tumble on JPMorgan
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-11T21:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/u-s-stock-index-futures-drop-as-jpmorgan-reveals-losses.html
U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a two-month low, as a slump in
banks driven by  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co.’s $2 billion trading loss
overshadowed an increase in a gauge of  consumer confidence .  Financial shares, which comprise 15 percent of the  S&P 500 ,
slid 1.2 percent for the biggest drop among 10 groups. JPMorgan
sank 9.3 percent as Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the
lender made “egregious” mistakes and trading losses were
“self inflicted.” More than  216 million  JPMorgan shares
traded, breaking the prior one-day record set in 2008. Commodity
shares slumped as China’s industrial production grew the least
since 2009, spurring concern demand for raw materials will wane.  The S&P 500 slid 0.3 percent to 1,353.39 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. It capped a two-week drop, falling 3.6 percent in the
period. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 34.44 points, or
0.3 percent, to 12,820.60. About  6.6 billion  shares changed
hands on U.S. exchanges, in line with the three-month average.  “It’s a black eye for JPMorgan,” said  Michael Shaoul ,
chairman of Marketfield Asset Management in New York, which
oversees more than $1.9 billion. “It was considered to be one
of the better big banks. There’s already a debate about
regulation. Jamie Dimon will be in a weaker position to push
back against it, JPMorgan will be in a weaker position.”  Stocks fell as JPMorgan’s chief investment office, run by
Ina Drew, 55, took flawed positions on synthetic credit
securities that remain volatile and may cost an additional $1
billion this quarter or next. Concern about the  financial (S5FINL) 
industry overshadowed data showing consumer confidence rose in
May to the highest level in four years.  Biggest Decline  A gauge of diversified financial institutions in the S&P
500 tumbled 3.2 percent, for the  biggest  decline among 24
groups. JPMorgan slumped 9.3 percent to $36.96.  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
retreated 4.2 percent to $29.35.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  lost 2
percent to $7.55.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  slid 4.2 percent to $14.95.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  slipped 3.9 percent to $102.13.  U.S. lawmakers and interest groups favoring tighter
restrictions on proprietary trading said JPMorgan’s loss
bolsters their case. Senator Carl Levin, the co-author of the
so-called Volcker rule and chairman of the Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations, said the disclosure served as a
“stark reminder” to regulators drafting the proprietary-
trading ban required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.  “The regulatory and political environment is already a
headwind and clearly this doesn’t help,” wrote Deutsche Bank AG
New York-based analysts, including Matt O’Connor, in a report.
Bank of America analyst Guy Moszkowski wrote separately that
JPMorgan’s losses will be taken by those seeking stricter
regulation as “an example of prop trading dangers.”  Financial Earnings  Today’s loss  trimmed  this year’s gain in  S&P 500 (SPX)  financial
shares to 14 percent, still the biggest among 10 groups.
Investors had bought the industry’s shares as first-quarter
earnings grew 12 percent, almost  double  the increase in S&P
500’s profits, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark index for U.S. equities has risen 7.6 percent in 2012.  Concern about the outlook for banks and Europe’s debt
crisis took the S&P 500 down 1.2 percent this week. Greece’s
political impasse since the inconclusive May 6 election has
raised the odds another vote will have to be held as early as
next month, threatening the implementation of austerity pledges
and sparking concerns about the country leaving the euro.  “It’s never a good time to lose $2 billion, but this a
particularly bad one given all the variables out there,” said
Walter Todd, who oversees about $950 million as chief investment
officer at Greenwood Capital in Greenwood, South Carolina.
“Investors are nervous because of the situation in Europe. This
is not something that the market needed.”  Commodity Shares  Energy and raw material shares in the S&P 500 declined as
commodities fell for an eighth day to extend the longest slump
in more than three years.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  retreated 14 percent to $14.81 as
the company said it may delay some of the $14 billion in asset
sales planned for this year because the transactions may hurt
its ability to comply with loan agreements.  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  fell 4.6 percent to $9.37. The company may need
to “substantially reduce” the value of an asset booked to
reflect its ability to recoup funds from Ally Financial Inc.
units if the lender’s mortgage division files for bankruptcy.  “At this time, the company cannot reasonably estimate the
amount of the change, if any, in the value of the recoveries,”
the Armonk, New York-based  bond insurer  said yesterday in a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Missing Estimates  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  dropped 4.8 percent to $50.96. The U.S.
chain with more than 100 namesake department stores posted
first-quarter profit that  trailed  analysts’ estimates as
expenses for e-commerce investments increased.  The S&P 500 rose as much as 0.6 percent earlier today as an
unexpected gain in confidence signaled consumer purchases, which
account for 70 percent of the economy, can keep expanding after
growing at the fastest pace in more than a year.  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  jumped 6.4 percent to $13.21 after predicting
second-quarter sales that exceeded analysts’ estimates,
bolstered by demand for its new graphics chips and mobile-phone
processors.  Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW)  surged 19 percent to $9.33. The
online recruiting service that’s exploring a sale of the company
rose after Reuters reported that LinkedIn Corp. and private-
equity firm Silver Lake Partners have expressed interest in a
possible deal.  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY)  gained 4.1 percent to $71.55. The
company was raised to the equivalent of  buy  at Credit Suisse
Group AG. The share-price estimate is $91.  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA)  jumped 74 percent, the most
since the shares began trading in 2000, to $6.36. The company’s
weight-loss pill gained the backing of an advisory panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  