-- U.S. Import Prices Decreased 0.5% in April on Cheaper Fuel
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-05-10T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/u-s-import-prices-decreased-0-5-in-april-on-cheaper-fuel.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. fell more than forecast in April, reflecting lower costs
for fuel.  The 0.5 percent decline in the import-price  index  followed
a revised 1.5 percent advance in March, Labor Department data
showed today in  Washington . Economists projected the gauge would
drop 0.2 percent, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. Prices minus fuel climbed 0.1 percent.  Slower global growth stemming from Europe and China may
further temper inflation pressures in the coming months. Federal
Reserve policy makers have said that higher fuel prices will
have a temporary effect on the world’s largest economy, allowing
central bankers to stick to a plan to keep  interest rates  low at
least until late 2014.  “Inflation is not an immediate concern,”  Ryan Sweet , a
senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania , said before the report. “The Fed is betting that
energy prices will have only a temporary impact, and so far the
bet is paying off.  Oil prices  have fallen sharply this month,
taking the edge off headline inflation.”  Compared with a year earlier, import prices rose 0.5
percent in April, the smallest gain since a decrease in October
2009, today’s report showed. They advanced 3.6 percent in the 12
months ended in March.  Another report from the Labor Department today showed
first-time claims for jobless benefits fell last week to a one-
month low, helping allay concern that the labor market may
suffer an extended setback.  Jobless Claims  Jobless claims  dropped by 1,000 to 367,000 in the period
ended May 5, in line with the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey and the lowest since the end of March. The number of
people continuing to collect  unemployment benefits  was the
smallest since July 2008.  Projections for import prices ranged from a decrease of 1.1
percent to an increase of 1.3 percent, according to the
Bloomberg survey of 50 economists.  The cost of imported fuels decreased 2.1 percent in April
from the prior month. Prices were down 1.7 percent from April
2011, the first decrease since October 2009.  While crude oil prices reached their highest level in
almost a year in mid-March, they have since fallen, suggesting a
further decline in the country’s imported energy bill. Brent oil
for May delivery has dropped about 10 percent through
yesterday’s close since reaching a peak this year of $126.22 a
barrel on March 13.  Bernanke on Oil  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on April 25 that a rise
in gasoline prices “has created a temporary bulge” in
inflation that’s likely to “pass through the system.”  Imported food was 0.1 percent more expensive last month,
today’s report showed. In March, imported food costs climbed 1.8
percent.  Prices for imported automobiles and parts rose 0.4 percent,
the most since June. The cost of imported capital goods was
little changed from the previous month.  Cheaper agriculture and materials may reduce pressure on
companies to raise prices on American consumers facing an 8.1
percent unemployment rate. The Thomson Reuters/Jeffries CRB
 commodity index  was 294.83 yesterday, down 9.5 percent from a
five-month high reached Feb. 24.  Companies like the  Cheesecake Factory Inc. (CAKE) , which operates
casual dining restaurants in the U.S., said it doesn’t foresee
higher food costs this year.  Commodity Prices  “We’re expecting less commodity cost inflation in 2012
than what we were expecting entering the year,” Chief Financial
Officer Douglas Benn said on a May 8 conference call.  A gain in the value of the  U.S. dollar  over the past 12
months may make imported goods less expensive going forward. The
Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to track
the currency against that of six major trade partners including
the euro and yen, has risen about 7 percent since May 9, 2011.  Also, a slowdown in global growth may help alleviate
pressure on commodity prices as cooling economies in the euro
area and tempered growth in  emerging markets  like  China  reduce
demand.  The cost of imported goods from China decreased 0.3 percent
in April, the first decline since June 2010, today’s figures
showed.  Imported goods from  Japan  fell 0.4 percent, the most since
September 2008, while the cost of goods from the European Union
dropped 0.1 percent. Goods from  Mexico  decreased 0.5 percent.  U.S. export prices rose 0.4 percent in April, the smallest
gain in three months, today’s report showed. Prices of farm
exports climbed 2 percent and those of non-farm goods increased
0.2 percent.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Data on producer prices are
released tomorrow, followed by the consumer-price index on May
15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  