-- Postal Service Says It Will Exhaust Cash Without Help
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-05-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/u-s-postal-service-loses-3-2-billion-as-mail-use-slips.html
The U.S.  Postal Service  said it will
temporarily run out of cash in October unless Congress allows
cuts that include ending Saturday delivery and its requirement
to pay for future retirees’ health benefits in advance.  Most of the service’s $3.2 billion loss in the quarter
ended March 31 came from a requirement to prepay the future
health costs. Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe has said the
service, which last made a quarterly profit in 2009, will become
a taxpayer burden unless Congress answers its pleas to let it
make cuts.  “We cannot continue to run a business with a cash balance
that’s expected to be zero,” Chief Financial Officer Joe Corbett said yesterday on a conference call with reporters,
noting it would reach that point at the start of what’s
historically the service’s strongest quarter. “We need to put
ourselves on solid financial footing.”  The 10th consecutive quarter of losses may spur the U.S.
House to consider its version of legislation intended to
overhaul the service, which is supposed to be self-sufficient.
The Senate has passed a bill that didn’t give the service all
the changes it requested, including permission to end Saturday
delivery.  Unmade Payments  The service forecasts losing $9.1 billion for the 12 months
ending Sept. 30. That compares with a $14.6 billion loss at
automaker  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and a $72 billion loss for mortgage
backer  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  in their worst years.  The forecasted loss doesn’t include a required, unmade $5.5
billion payment from last year for future retirees’ health
benefits. The service said it won’t have the cash to make that
payment or one for this year that’s due Sept. 30.  The Postal Service, losing $25 million a day, said it can
right itself financially with a plan announced in February to
cut $22.5 billion in annual operating expenses by 2016. It needs
legislation to make those cuts.  Fannie Mae , the biggest backer of U.S. home loans, began a
turnaround after it was seized by the government in 2008
following mounting losses. Fannie and smaller cousin  Freddie Mac 
have taken almost $190 billion in U.S. aid since they went into
conservatorship. Washington-based Fannie reported a profit of
$2.7 billion in its first quarter in what officials called a
turning point.  Lacking Cash  Ford, the only one of the three biggest U.S. automakers to
not receive a U.S. government bailout, recovered to earn $20.2
billion in 2011. The company is based in Dearborn,  Michigan .  The latest Postal Service loss highlights the need for
legislation, said Oklahoma Republican James Lankford, a member
of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee that
oversees the service.  “We have just been piddling around and haven’t solved
this; it’s not going to get better ignoring it,” he said in an
interview. “We’ve patched the Post Office for a long time. To
me they are the poster child of all the mandates and none of the
money.”  The service had $2 billion remaining in borrowing authority
on March 31, Corbett said. The Postal Service, allowed to borrow
only from the  U.S. Treasury , has a debt limit of $15 billion.  ‘Hemorrhaging Money’  “The Postal Service can’t afford to continue hemorrhaging
money like this,” Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat who
co-sponsored the Senate bill, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Congress can’t stand idly by and allow it to continue to creep
towards collapse. The Postal Service supports a trillion-dollar
mailing industry and over 8 million jobs.”  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican who is
co-sponsoring the House proposal, said the report shows the
seriousness of the Postal Service’s situation.  “The USPS needs responsible legislative action to restore
long-term solvency, preserve delivery of mail and protect
taxpayers from footing the bill for a bailout,” he said in an
e-mailed statement.  The Postal Service, which lost $3.3 billion in its first
quarter, had forecast a record $14.1 billion loss for this
fiscal year including last year’s retiree health benefit
payment.  “We are aggressively pursuing new revenue streams and
reducing costs in areas within our control,” Donahoe said in
the statement. “These actions are not enough to return the
Postal Service to profitability.”  Job Cuts  The service wants to eliminate as many as 220,000 jobs and
close mail-processing plants to reduce costs. It said yesterday
it can save $500 million annually by cutting hours of operation
at as many as 13,000 small-town post offices.  That strategy was a reversal from a plan announced last
year to close as many as 12 percent of post offices to save $200
million annually. Congress members including  Scott Brown , a
Massachusetts Republican, and Carper had asked the service to
keep post offices open.  In the second quarter, the service cut its expenses by $400
million to $34.1 billion as it pared work hours. Labor cost cuts
were offset by increases in fuel and benefits costs.  Mail volume, which has slid since peaking in 2006, fell 4.1
percent in the quarter as operating revenue declined 1 percent
to $16.2 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  