-- U.S. Children Don’t Make Grade in Science Even Amid Improvement
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-05-10T14:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/u-s-children-don-t-make-grade-in-science-even-amid-improvement.html
Two-thirds of U.S. eighth-graders
failed to make the grade on a federal science test, though their
scores improved from 2009.  About half of the students knew the atoms in a water
molecule, according to the 2011 results of the  Nation’s Report
Card  released today. Fifteen percent could fully explain the
significance of an experiment about the life cycle of
mosquitoes.  U.S. students’ mastery of math and science on international
assessments lag behind economic rivals, such as  China ,  Japan  and
 South Korea , raising concern about U.S. competitiveness. The
results reflect reduced school-district funding for science
instruction, Gerry Wheeler, interim  executive director , of the
National Science Teachers Association in Arlington, Virginia.  “There is no cause for optimism” about the exam, Wheeler,
a former Montana State University physics professor, said in a
statement. “When you consider the importance of being
scientifically literate in today’s global economy, these scores
are simply unacceptable.”  On the 2011 National Assessment of Educational Progress, as
the test is formally known, the average score increased 2 points
since 2009, to 152 on a zero-to-300-point scale. The score
indicates that students performed at what the government
considers the “basic” level. That meant they were likely to
understand how gravity keeps objects in regular motion and
unlikely to be able to explain metabolism, growth and
reproduction.  Thirty-two percent of eighth-graders scored at or above a
level considered proficient in science, up from 30 percent two
years earlier.  Minority Gains  The test measured knowledge in physical science, biology,
geology and related subjects, such as the weather, along with
the application of that information using the practices of
scientific inquiry.  A representative sample of 122,000 eighth-graders in
public, private, Department of Defense and Bureau of Indian
Education schools took the exam. Students whose teachers
performed hands-on projects on most days scored higher on the
test, according to a survey of instructors.  Black and Hispanic students had larger-than-average gains,
though they still underperformed white test-takers. Higher-
income students outscored poorer ones, and boys did better than
girls. Scores at private and Catholic schools outpaced public
ones.  “The gains are encouraging, but the racial and gender gaps
show a cause for concern,” David P. Driscoll, the former
Massachusetts education commissioner who chairs the group
overseeing the federal test, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in  Boston  at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  