-- U.S. Consumer Bureau to Propose Rules on Mortgage Points, Fees
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-05-10T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/u-s-consumer-bureau-to-propose-rules-on-mortgage-points-fees.html
The U.S.  Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau  will propose new rules “this summer” aimed at
simplifying how lenders market mortgages with so-called points
and fees, the agency said in an e-mailed statements.  “Mortgages today often come with so many different types
of fees and points that it can be hard to compare offers,”
 Richard Cordray , the bureau’s director, said in the statement.
“We want to bring greater transparency to the market so
consumers can clearly see their options and choose the loan that
is right for them.”  The agency will propose the rules this summer, seek public
comment, and complete them by January, it said.  Borrowers can pay points, expressed as a percentage of a
loan amount, up front in return for a lower interest rate. For
example, a borrower might pay 1 point, or $1,000, on a $100,000
loan, and get a rate of 3.75 percent instead of 4 percent.  The new rules would require lenders to actually deliver the
interest rate reduction if points are paid, the agency said.
Lenders who do offer points that result in a lower  interest rate 
would also be required to put forward a no-point loan so
borrowers can compare competing offers.  The bureau would also ban origination fees, known as
“origination points,” that vary with the size of the loan, on
the grounds that they are too easily confused with discount
points. Lenders would still be able to charge flat origination
fees.  The agency, created by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, will
also propose rules on what qualifications, training and
background are necessary for mortgage originators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  