-- S&P 500 Rises From 2-Month Low on Greece Government Talks
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-10T21:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/u-s-stock-futures-fluctuate-cisco-sinks-monster-gains.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose,
rebounding from the lowest level in two months, as Greece
attempted to form a new government and a decline in American
jobless claims helped allay concern of a labor market setback.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and U.S. Bancorp rose at least 1.4
percent to pace gains in banks. News Corp., the media company
run by Rupert Murdoch, and  Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST) , an energy-
drink maker, rallied more than 4.8 percent as earnings beat
estimates.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  sank 10 percent as its forecasts
disappointed investors.  S&P 500  futures fell 0.5 percent at 5:01
p.m. as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  slumped 3.8 percent after saying
one of its divisions had “significant” mark-to-market losses.  The S&P 500 rose 0.3 percent to 1,357.99 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  added 19.98 points, or
0.2 percent, to 12,855.04. The  Nasdaq-100 Index (NDX)  dropped 0.2
percent to 2,616.24, led by Cisco, which comprises 3.1 percent
of the measure. About  6.6 billion  shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges, almost in line with the three-month average.  “They are still talking in Greece and that brings some
relief,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17
billion at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham, Alabama. “The
crash off the cliff in terms of an extreme political alliance
didn’t play out today. In the U.S., jobless claims didn’t
surprise negatively. That was seen as a positive.”  U.S. equities joined a global rally and the euro halted an
eight-day slump, its longest since 2008. Greece’s  Evangelos Venizelos , the socialist Pasok leader and former finance
minister, said his goal is to form a government that keeps the
nation in the euro area. Investors also watched economic data as
initial claims for jobless benefits fell to a one-month low.  Political Turmoil  Greek political turmoil extended into a fourth day after
the inconclusive May 6 elections, with coalition talks
deadlocked, raising the possibility that another election will
have to be held as early as next month. The standoff has
reignited European concerns over Greece’s ability to hold to
terms of its two bailouts negotiated since May 2010.  “There’s an attempt to patch things together in Greece,”
said Michael Strauss, who helps oversee about $27 billion of
assets as the chief investment strategist at Commonfund in
Wilton, Connecticut. “They will try to stay in the euro, though
I’m not sure they can. Greece is a failed chemistry experiment
even if they put something together.”  Banks had the biggest gain in the S&P 500 among 24 groups,
adding 1.5 percent, as a measure of European lenders rallied.
The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  rose 1 percent as 22 of its 24 stocks
advanced. Wells Fargo climbed 1.7 percent to $33.19.  US Bancorp (USB) 
increased 1.4 percent to $31.91.  Bernanke on Banks  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the U.S.
banking system is stronger and more resilient while still facing
challenges on credit quality and liquidity.  “Banks still have more to do to restore their health and
adapt to the post-crisis regulatory and economic environment,”
Bernanke said today in a speech at the Chicago Fed’s annual
conference on banks. As the economic expansion proceeds, “a
financially stronger banking system will be well positioned to
expand its lending.”  Some corporate reports also helped drive stocks higher
today. Per-share profits have topped projections at about 70
percent of  S&P 500 companies  that reported results since the
start of the earnings season.  News Corp. (NWSA)  climbed 4.9 percent to $20.32 after revenue
growth at its cable networks and film studio helped it exceed
analysts’ third-quarter profit estimates. The owner of Fox
Broadcasting and Fox News derives at least 70 percent of its
annual profit from television, and is working to expand in
markets outside the U.S. with investments in pay-TV operators.  International Markets  Monster Beverage surged 9 percent to $71.17. Net sales rose
28 percent to $454.6 million as Chief Executive Officer Rodney
Sacks expands into  international markets , including Hong Kong
and Macau last month.  Big Lots Inc. (BIG)  gained 1.4 percent to $36.73. The discount
retailer was  raised  to the equivalent of buy at Barclays Plc.
The share-price estimate is $43.  Technology shares had the biggest  decline  in the S&P 500
among 10 industries, falling 0.8 percent, as 47 out of its 71
stocks retreated. The group comprises 20 percent of the S&P 500.  Cisco, the largest maker of computer-networking equipment,
tumbled 10 percent to $16.81. Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  said orders from big companies fell in the third
quarter, and it’s taking longer to sign large deals with
corporate customers. Cisco is also concerned about demand from
Europe, India and government agencies, he said.  Rival  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  plunged 4.9 percent to $18.07.
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , the biggest provider of online customer-
management software, sank 9.1 percent to $135.44.  Higher Offer  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  dropped 3.3 percent to $20.89. Coty Inc.
raised its offer to acquire Avon to about $10.7 billion, or
$24.75 a share, and said Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. will provide financing as the perfume-maker seeks to draw
Avon into negotiations. Avon traded below Coty’s offer,
suggesting investors aren’t convinced the bid will succeed.  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. sank 25 percent to $2.45,
the lowest level since  November 2001. (WFR)  The second-largest U.S.
polysilicon maker posted a first-quarter loss 20 times greater
than a year earlier as solar sales fell by more than one-third.  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)  dropped 5.3 percent to $681.11. The
biggest U.S. online travel agency by market value forecast
second-quarter earnings that trailed analysts’ estimates.  Pessimism about stocks rose to the highest level since
October and optimism plunged to an eight-month low, according to
a survey from the American Association of Individual Investors.  Bulls vs Bears  The proportion of investors who anticipate a decline in the
next six months jumped 13.6 percentage points to  42.1 percent  in
the past week, according to the Chicago-based company, which has
tracked individual investors’ projections since 1987. Bullish
sentiment, or expectations that stocks will  rise  over the next
six months, slumped 10 percentage points to 25.4 percent, the
data showed.  It’s the fourth time in the past five weeks that bearish
sentiment has topped its average of 30 percent, according to the
survey. While many technical analysts usually see a surge in
pessimism as a contrarian sign that will give way to a rally,
AAII Vice President Charles Rotblut said it may not be high
enough compared to historical levels.  “A bearish sentiment reading above 50 percent would be a
stronger contrarian signal,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  