-- Lugar’s Loss Shows Voters Ensure Partisanship They Decry
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-05-10T21:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/lugar-s-loss-shows-voters-ensure-partisanship-they-decry.html
The defeat of Senator  Richard Lugar 
of Indiana revealed a streak in the U.S. electorate that decries
the partisanship and rancor in Washington while helping to
ensure it with their votes.  Lugar’s moderate bearings and inclination toward compromise
were among the reasons he lost his state’s May 8 Republican
primary. He fell victim to the same anti-tax  Tea Party  fervor
that toppled incumbents such as former Senator Bob Bennett of
 Utah  in 2010 and prompted Senator Olympia Snowe of  Maine  to
decide against seeking re-election this year rather than keep
serving in a Congress known more for fighting than legislating.  Republican primaries are more dominated by voters who want
smaller government, lower taxes and socially conservative
policies -- and who bother to show up. Because of congressional
redistricting, many Democrats who call themselves moderates have
been winnowed or decided not to run again.  “Regardless of what most Americans voters say about
wanting people who will compromise, the dynamic in Republican
primaries still can boost a very conservative, non-compromising,
Tea Party-backed candidate against a longstanding
conservative,” said Theda Skocpol, a professor of government
and sociology at  Harvard University . She co-wrote “The Tea
Party and the Remaking of Republican Conservatism.”  Romney Effect  Mitt Romney  having all but clinched the Republican
presidential nomination also is probably skewing who votes in
the remaining primaries, as fewer Republicans come to polling
places to help pick a nominee, she said.  Lugar lost to Indiana state Treasurer Richard Mourdock, 60,
who will run in the general election against Democratic U.S.
Representative Joe Donnelly, 56.  The Republican nominee has made clear that brokering deals
with Democrats isn’t his goal. He and outside groups attacked
Lugar for supporting the bank bailout passed in 2008,
shepherding nuclear arms treaties through the Senate and voting
for Obama’s two Supreme Court nominees.  Mourdock signed a pledge, championed by anti-tax activist
 Grover Norquist , that he will never vote to raise taxes. Lugar
refused to make such promises.  View of Congress  Mourdock’s campaign platform prevailed, even as polls show
high levels of public disgust with a Congress that has
accomplished little. A CBS-New York Times poll conducted April
13-17 put public disapproval of Congress’s work at 77 percent,
compared with 13 percent who approved. An April 9-12 Gallup poll
showed that 79 percent disapproved and 17 percent approved.  Mourdock’s win suggests there is still plenty of support
among some Republican voters for an uncompromising approach to
governing.  “While there’s a general public concern about gridlock,
there’s a core of the Republican base that is not concerned
about gridlock and does not want candidates who will compromise
on issues,” said Michael Dimock, research director at the Pew
Research Center in  Washington .  The 80-year-old Lugar, after his loss, said in a statement
that Mourdock won’t achieve much as a senator unless he changes
course.  “He and I share many positions, but his embrace of an
unrelenting partisan mindset is irreconcilable with my
philosophy of governance and my experience of what brings
results for Hoosiers in the Senate,” Lugar said. “In effect,
what he has promised in this campaign is reflexive votes for a
rejectionist orthodoxy and rigid opposition to the actions and
proposals of the other party.”  Size of Government  Mourdock said yesterday on CNN he doesn’t rule out working
with Democrats, though the dispute between the parties over the
size of government makes it almost impossible.  “One side wants exactly the opposite of the other,”
Mourdock said.  The polarization in Congress is an extension of two decades
of change that have almost eliminated centrists in both parties,
said  Gary Jacobson , a political scientist at the  University of
California  in  San Diego .  “The parties are now defined much more precisely,” he
said. “A main part of the overall trend is the disappearance of
conservative southern Democrats and the disappearance of the
moderate northeastern Republicans.”  Congressional redistricting contributed, said  Michael McDonald , a political scientist at  George Mason University  in
Fairfax, Virginia. In the 1988 presidential election, the vote
split was no greater than 52 percent to 48 percent in 161 House
districts, he said. That dropped by 2002 to 91 districts with
two rounds of redistricting after the 1990 and 2000 censuses.  Appealing to Base  Safer seats mean that more House members can appeal only to
their party’s base to win re-election. Lawmakers who tend to
work with the other party have retired or lost.  The House Blue Dog coalition, a group of Democrats who
favor spending cuts and low taxes, now has 25 members, down from
53 before the 2010 election. Three members announced they’re not
seeking re-election this year:  North Carolina ’s Heath Shuler,
Arkansas’s Mike Ross and Oklahoma’s  Dan Boren .  Lower primary turnout also is an element, said  Curtis Gans ,
director of the Center for the Study of the American Electorate
in Washington.  The percentage of eligible voters participating in
primaries decreased from 8.7 percent in 1994 to 7.2 percent in
2006, he said. In 2010, it edged up to 9.7 percent, in what Gans
said was an aberration because of the slumping economy and voter
dissatisfaction with President Barack Obama’s policies.  ‘Empowers Intensity’  “Lower turnout empowers intensity,” Gans said. “It means
a very narrow sliver of the overall population can propel people
to primary victories.”  Following Lugar’s race, a May 29 Republican Senate primary
in  Texas  will give the next glimpse of whether party voters
embrace candidates who take a harder line.  As in  Indiana , the Texas contest is drawing millions of
dollars in spending by outside groups. The nonpartisan Center
for Responsive Politics says independent expenditures so far
have exceeded $1.5 million by groups including FreedomWorks,
which supports the Tea Party movement; the small-government
group Club for Growth, and a leadership PAC run by South
Carolina Republican Senator Jim DeMint.  Ad Attack  Yesterday, Club for Growth said it will begin a $1 million
ad campaign in Texas attacking the front-runner in the
Republican race, Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst, for
supporting a state income tax. The group supports former state
Solicitor General Ted Cruz, who has argued cases defending
private property rights and sued the federal government to
strike down parts of a 2003 expansion of Medicare.  Matt Hirsch, a spokesman for the Dewhurst campaign, said
the claim that he ever supported such a tax is false. “David
Dewhurst has always been opposed to a state income tax,” Hirsch
said.  The race is for the seat being given up by Republican  Kay Bailey Hutchison .  Dewhurst leads in polling, though Cruz is closing the gap.
A Public Policy Polling survey last month showed Dewhurst
leading Cruz, 38 percent to 26 percent, in a crowded field of
candidates. Seven months earlier, the lieutenant governor had a
29-point lead.  If Dewhurst doesn’t win at least 50 percent of the primary
vote, he would face a July 31 runoff against Cruz. Low turnout
may allow Cruz to pull off an upset, said  Tom Jensen , director
of Public Policy Polling.  “You’ll have pretty low turnout in a runoff election, and
I sense that there’s a lot more enthusiasm among Cruz
supporters,” Jensen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  