-- Hungary Phone Tax Burden May Affect Magyar Telekom Dividend
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-05-10T15:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/hungary-tax-may-hit-magyar-telekom-dividend-mattheisen-says-1-.html
Magyar Telekom Nyrt., the Hungarian
unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , said Hungary replacing its “crisis
tax” with a levy on phone calls may have an impact on its
 dividend  as it affects the widest part of its customer base.  The new phone tax, passed by the Hungarian government
yesterday, has a monthly cap that will affect lower earners, the
biggest part of the customers, Chief Executive Officer
Christopher Mattheisen said today. The tax will be payable from
July and is levied on phone calls per minute, with a maximum
monthly charge of 700 forint per subscription for individual
customers and 2,500 forint per subscription for companies.  Hungary is introducing taxes on banking, energy,
telecommunications and insurance companies to allay European
Union concern that its budget was unsustainable. The “crisis
tax” now in force, which will be replaced with the new levies,
is a major determinant of the current dividend level, Mattheisen
said, adding that it is too soon to give a precise forecast for
the payout.  The new tax “is definitely a burden on the industry but it
is also a burden on consumers,” Mattheisen told reporters in
Budapest. “The impact will be higher for lower income customers
which represent the mass of our customer base.”  Magyar Telekom’s first-quarter net income fell 14 percent
to 13 billion forint ($58 million) as tax expenses increased and
margins narrowed, according to a statement posted on the website
of the Budapest Stock Exchange today. The result exceeded the
median estimate of 12.2 billion forint in a Bloomberg poll of
three analysts.  Dividend  The company paid a dividend of 50 forint per share after
both its 2011 and 2010 earnings, compared with 74 forint for
2009, because of the special “crisis” tax on the industry
which will be phased out next year.  “We expected the dividend to rise to 65 forint from
2013,”  Akos Kuti , an analyst at Budapest-based broker Equilor
Befektetesi Zrt., wrote in a research report today. “The
situation has changed however with the introduction of the
telephone tax, so it’s more likely the company will keep the 50
forint payout.”  The European Union said in March it will sue Hungary as the
current tax violates rules forbidding sector-specific charges to
generate revenue for the budget.  The new tax may also raise the question whether it
contravenes EU regulations, Mattheisen said.  EU Law  The European Commission will examine whether the new tax is
compatible with EU law, said Emer Traynor, a spokeswoman on tax
affairs.  “Given past problems with telecoms taxes in  Hungary , the
Commission services will closely follow the adoption of this
draft measure,” Traynor said by e-mail.  The government may also fail to introduce the tax in time
if operators are unable to adjust their computer systems to meet
the deadline, Mattheisen said. In addition, the state may fall
short of plans to collect 30 billion forint from the levy this
year and at least 50 billion forint in 2013, he said.  “The fact that it does fall in a much heavier way on a
lower income swathe of the population, introduces an element of
risk of how much can actually be collected,” he said.  Magyar Telekom’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization declined 3.1 percent to 51.6
billion forint. Underlying Ebitda fell 5.5 percent, while total
revenue rose 2.9 percent to 146.6 billion forint. The EBITDA
margin fell to 35.2 percent from 37.4 percent in the same period
a year earlier.  Turn the Corner  Revenue from energy services, which has lower margin than
other activities, increased to 6 billion forint compared 0.7
billion forint in the first quarter of 2011, Magyar Telekom
said.  “We were able to turn the corner on revenue in the overall
business thanks in part to a very healthy growth in the energy
side of business,” Mattheisen said.  The company’s shares fell 0.2 percent to 465 forint by
close in Budapest, after falling 3.3 percent yesterday.  “We are keeping our recommendation at hold as the expected
introduction of the telecommunications provider tax in July will
have a negative impact,” Peter Fazakas and Gergely Palffy,
analysts at broker Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt., wrote in a research
report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  