-- UniCredit Quarterly Net Rises 13% on Higher Trading Income
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-05-10T14:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/unicredit-first-quarter-net-rises-13-on-higher-trading-income.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank,
said first-quarter profit rose 13 percent as higher trading
income related to the buyback of its securities offset a drop in
fees and lending.  Net income  climbed to 914 million euros ($1.18 billion)
from 810 million euros a year earlier, the Milan-based company
said in a statement today. That beat the 832 million-euro
average estimate of 10  analysts surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  is cutting costs
and reviewing the bank’s strategy in central and eastern Europe
as part of a plan approved in November to strengthen finances
and boost profit. The lender raised 7.5 billion euros in a
rights offer in January to meet capital targets set by the
European Banking Authority.  The results “look better than expected and this is mainly
due to low quality items like trading gains and lower-than-
expected provisions,” analysts at Fidentiis Equities wrote in a
note to clients today.  UniCredit said it posted a 477 million-euro net gain from
the buyback of 1.3 billion euros of bonds and 473 million pounds
($765 million) of securities completed in February.  Net interest income dropped to 3.8 billion euros in the
quarter from about 3.9 billion euros a year earlier, while net
fees declined 6 percent to about 2 billion euros. Loan-loss
provisions dropped to 1.4 billion euros from 1.5 billion euros a
year ago. The lender cut 1,077 jobs in first quarter, in line
with the firm’s business plan, it said in a slide presentation
on its website.  ‘Ahead of Schedule’  The bank’s core Tier 1 ratio, a key measure of financial
health, rose to 10.3 percent as of March 31 from a pro-forma
9.97 percent at the end of December, which included the share
sale completed in January.  UniCredit rose 7 percent to 2.85 euros at 3:40 p.m. in
Milan, giving the company a market value of 16.5 billion euros.
 The Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services Index  gained 2
percent, to bring its increase to 1 percent this year, compared
with UniCredit’s 33 percent decline.  “Thanks to capital strengthening measures such as the
subordinated bonds buyback, we are ahead of schedule of our 2012
Basel III common equity target,” Ghizzoni, 56, said in the
statement. “UniCredit showed a strong net profit evolution, an
improved liquidity position and good progress in implementing
the strategic plan.”  The lender, which requested 26 billion euros in the ECB’s
two longer-term refinancing operations, has completed 44 percent
of its 31 billion-euro funding need for 2012, of which 51
percent is related to  Italy , the company said. Deposits grew 2
percent in the quarter, improving the bank’s liquidity, it said.  Dividend Surprise  The first-quarter results may lead to a “likely positive
dividend surprise,” Mediobanca analysts wrote in a note to
clients today.  First-quarter profit before taxes more than tripled in
Italy because of higher revenue and lower costs.  “Business refocusing is well under way, with Italy
continuing to show positive progress,” UniCredit said in the
statement. Revenue at the Italian business rose 4.2 percent on
an annual basis to 2.6 billion euros, operating costs dropped
4.7 percent to 1.4 billion euros and loan-loss provisions
increased 1 percent to 935 million euros.  CEE  Central and eastern  Europe , the region including  Poland ,
 Russia  and  Turkey , contributed half of UniCredit’s recurring net
operating profit in the quarter. Profit advanced 2 percent to
563 million euros as declining revenue was offset by lower
charges for bad loans. Earnings in Turkey fell 16 percent due to
lower fee income and higher risk charges. Russian earnings
advanced 8 percent, while Polish profit declined 3 percent, the
company said.  Ghizzoni is focusing investments on countries with the
biggest and most profitable units in the emerging economies of
Europe, where UniCredit is the largest lender. He has named
Russia, Poland, Turkey and the  Czech Republic  as “growth
engines,” while putting expansion plans in  Hungary  and  Romania 
on hold and not ruling out the sale of units in some of the 15
formerly communist countries.  Unlike rivals including OTP Bank Nyrt., Erste Group Bank AG
and  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , UniCredit has remained
profitable in Hungary. First-quarter earnings benefited from
writebacks of provisions it earlier had made against losses
there.  The only unprofitable countries in the region for UniCredit
in the quarter were Kazakhstan and the Baltics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  