-- Murdoch Had ’Selective Amnesia’ at U.K. Inquiry, Lawyer Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-05-10T12:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/murdoch-had-selective-amnesia-at-u-k-inquiry-lawyer-says.html
News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
had “selective amnesia” about events including meetings with
former U.K. Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  about 30 years ago,
a lawyer for a media-ethics inquiry in Britain said.  Murdoch, during testimony last month, forgot seemingly
important details of a lunch with Thatcher while he was buying
the  Times newspaper  in 1981, Robert Jay, a lawyer for the
inquiry, said at the judicial inquiry today in London. The probe
was triggered by widespread phone hacking at News Corp.’s News
of the World tabloid.  “Could an intimate lunch at Chequers really have been
forgotten?” Jay asked during the introduction to the inquiry’s
review of the press and politicians. “This issue is capable of
bearing on Mr. Murdoch’s integrity.”  Murdoch and his son James spent three days in front of the
inquiry blaming their ignorance of the illegal events on police,
lawyers and subordinates. The company’s critics and victims have
argued  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s often cozy links to government prevented the
extent of the scandal from being uncovered sooner.  Evidence released by the ethics inquiry showed the Murdochs
had dozens of meetings with the most powerful lawmakers in the
U.K. As a result, Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  is facing calls
from the opposition Labour party to resign after e-mails showed
one of his aides offered inside information on Hunt’s views to a
News Corp. lobbyist when the company was offering 7.8 billion
pounds ($12.6 billion) for the 61 percent of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  it didn’t already own.  ‘Over-Cozy Relationship’  Judge Brian Leveson, who is overseeing the inquiry, should
determine whether the Hunt dispute over the “BSkyB bid is
really an example in microcosm of an over-cozy relationship of
favors being traded in,” Jay said today.  Prime Minister David Cameron’s former press chief  Andy Coulson  is scheduled to testify today. Coulson resigned his post
as an editor at News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid after a
reporter was convicted of hacking into a mobile phone. Coulson
will be followed tomorrow by the former head of News Corp.’s
U.K. publishing unit Rebekah Brooks.  Leveson said in opening remarks today that he won’t decide
whether Murdoch is fit to run a company or whether Hunt broke
the U.K.’s ministerial code in his dealings with News Corp. A
separate parliamentary committee probing the scandal earlier
this month said Murdoch wasn’t fit to run a major international
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  