-- Lust, Greed Link Puccini, Zemlinski Music-Dramas: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/lust-greed-link-puccini-zemlinski-music-dramas-review.html
Simone, a swaggering merchant,
arrives home to find his wife, Bianca, in the arms of a smooth
prince of the city.  The two men play a high-stakes game of chicken as Simone
convinces the cuckolder to purchase his wares, among them a
magnificent robe worthy of a Medici scion.  The bargaining culminates in a swordfight that ends with
Simone strangling the prince.  Throughout, they sing increasingly agitated music by the
once admired Alexander Zemlinsky, who fled the Nazis and died,
neglected, in Larchmont,  New York .  “A Florentine Tragedy” is so rarely heard, I journeyed up
to Toronto last weekend, where the adventurous  Canadian Opera
Company  is presenting it with Puccini’s “Gianni Schicchi,” a
giddy farce about a dead oldster, his will and his greedy
relatives.  “Schicchi” is usually presented as the comic relief in
Puccini’s “Il Trittico” with “Il Tabarro” and “Suor
Angelica.”  Zemlinsky’s “Tragedy” is based on an unfinished drama by
 Oscar Wilde ; “Schicchi” was extracted from Dante’s
“Inferno.”  Both staged by soprano-turned director Catherine Malfitano
and united by the Florence setting, the unlikely pair make for a
provocative study in contrasts.  Parlor Games  Malfitano places the Zemlinski melodrama in the parlor of a
palazzo in the 1920s, where the Puccini comedy also unfolds, a
half-century later.  We saw the ancient Buoso Donati expiring, leaving
everything to the monks. Enter the cunning Gianni Schicchi,
whose dowry-less daughter Lauretta wants to marry Donati’s
nephew.  At Lauretta’s importuning (in the evening’s big crowd-
pleasing aria, “O mio babbino caro”), he devises a plan to
reclaim the estate, taking a sizable slice for himself as the
assorted heirs look on in horror, powerless.  The star of both was the charismatic American bass-
baritone Alan Held, singing Simone in “Florentine” and the
title role in “Schicchi.” In the former, he’s a Bruce Willis-
style cock-of-the-walk; in the latter, a Crocodile Dundee-style
rogue. In both, his acting is as virile as his singing.  Italian Joke  German soprano Gun-Brit Barkmin is a sexy Bianca in a
Louise Brooks bob and, in the Puccini, a lithe Nella. Barbara
Dever shines as the stalwart Zita. Simone Osborne, a product of
the Canadian company’s training program, sings a sulkily
coquettish Lauretta.  The handsome parlor was designed by  Wilson Chin  and moodily
lit by David Martin Jacques. In “Florentine,” it’s posh and
dominated by a Richard Avedon-like portrait of the berobed
Simone and Bianca, presumably naked (only her shoulders are
revealed).  For “Schicchi,” the set becomes a joke about the Italian
predilection for refurbishment, with household junk piled high
among drop cloths as the blue light of a TV screen dominates
Schicchi’s death-sofa-bed.  An obviously confident Sir  Andrew Davis  led the terrific
orchestra, earning warm applause at the final curtain.  Restaurant note: Stay Italian with dinner afterward at the
stylish, superb Nota Bene, just a few blocks away at 180 Queen
St. West. Chef/co-owner Andrew Lee’s signature dishes like
cavatelli in a truffled, meatless Bolognese and scallops made
potent with tomatillo, guajillo puree and coriander are
standouts in a sleek yet inviting setting.  Through May 25 at the Four Seasons Centre for the
 Performing Arts , 145 Queen St. West, Toronto, Ontario.
Information: +1-416-363-8231;  http://www.coc.ca .
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  gadgets 
and  Jason Harper  on cars.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 