-- Vale Freed of Collateral on 30.7 Billion-Real Tax Dispute
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-05-10T20:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/vale-freed-of-collateral-on-30-7-billion-real-tax-dispute.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s biggest iron-ore
producer, said Brazil’s Superior Federal Tribunal freed it from
paying collateral while it disputes 30.7 billion reais ($15.7
billion) of taxes on overseas profit.  The injunction by the country’s highest court overturning a
collateral order was a “favorable decision,” the Rio de
Janeiro-based mining company said in an e-mailed  statement 
today. An official at the court’s press office, who declined to
be named because of internal policy, said the injunction won’t
affect a final ruling on the levies.  Vale has challenged government claims for taxes on profit
of foreign units since 2003 as China-led demand pushes up prices
and shipments of iron-ore, nickel and other metals. The
government claims, including interest and penalties, are
relative to profit between 1996 and 2008, Vale said March 6.
 Brazil  may also seek tax payments for the period starting 2009.  “We believe the decision is marginally positive for Vale
because it reduces the risk of additional financial burden,”
Sao Paulo-based Itau BBA analysts Marcos Assumpcao and Andre
Pinheiro said in a note to clients today.  The decision by Brazil’s  Supreme Court  suspends all the
payment demands and the requirement to post collateral while the
courts assess the dispute, Vale said in today’s statement. The
company on April 27  said  it presented a bond worth 1.7 billion
reais after a request presented by the Brazilian tax
authorities.  Vale was  unchanged  to 39.22 reais at the close in  Sao Paulo 
today, after dropping for five consecutive trading days. The
stock  gained  3.7 percent this year, less than the 5.2 percent
increase in the benchmark Bovespa index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  