-- Vivendi’s SFR Said to Target $582 Million Cost Cuts
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-05-11T09:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/vivendi-s-sfr-said-to-target-582-million-cost-cuts.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  plans to reduce operating
expenses at its SFR mobile-phone unit by as much as 450 million
euros ($582 million) this year through firings, cuts in
marketing spending and renegotiating contracts with  call
centers , according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Top executives have decided on SFR’s budget, with the cost
reductions aimed at offsetting a  projected earnings  decline of
12 percent in 2012, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plan is confidential. Vivendi in March
predicted SFR’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization would fall between 12 and 15 percent this year.  The executives have conducted internal briefings in the
past week, although they didn’t address how SFR plans to stop
customer defections to  Iliad SA (ILD) , the discounter that began
services as  France ’s fourth mobile-phone operator this year, the
people said. SFR last week hired  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s European
head, Michel Combes, as chief executive officer. Combes will
start in August and spearhead the turnaround of Vivendi’s
largest division, with more than 12 billion euros in revenue.  SFR’s unions said yesterday in separate e-mailed releases
that the unit is working on a plan to eliminate more than 500
positions in France, where SFR employs about 10,000 people.  Nicolas Chatin, a spokesman for SFR, declined to comment on
the cost-cut targets or the union statements.  Ad Spending Cut  Vivendi fell 1.4 percent to 12.86 euros at 11:20 a.m. in
Paris, bringing the decline to 21 percent this year. Iliad
dropped 0.1 percent.  Vivendi, which is scheduled to release first-quarter
earnings on May 14, has halted projects at SFR, cut advertising
spending and slowed store openings as it develops a new strategy
for the business, an internal document showed in March.  CEO Jean-Bernard Levy last year spent 7.95 billion euros to
take full control of SFR from Vodafone.  As the stock trades near the lowest levels of Levy’s seven-
year tenure, the company has come under pressure from
shareholders to offer a new strategy. Vivendi, which also owns
the world’s biggest video-game and music companies, is
considering an overhaul of its structure that may lead to a
breakup, people with knowledge of the matter said two weeks ago.  Subscriber Loss  The first quarter showed “exceptionally high” movement in
the French mobile market, local telecommunications regulator
Arcep said yesterday in a report. The number of mobile
subscriptions transferred from one carrier to another reached
2.6 million, a record high, in the quarter when Free started
selling its packages. France had 69.5 million mobile clients as
of March, Arcep said.  “The numbers show Free probably won more from competitors
than we thought,” Stephane Beyazian, an analyst at Raymond
James Euro Equities, wrote in a note. Beyazian estimates Free,
Iliad’s brand, got about 2.5 million subscribers in the quarter.  SFR could have a net subscriber loss between 350,000 and
400,000, or as much as 2 percent of its client base, according
to Conor O’Shea, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets.  France Telecom SA (FTE) , the country’s largest phone company,
 said last week  it lost 615,000 wireless customers last quarter
in its home market. Its direct market share in France fell to
38.4 percent, 1.5 points lower than the fourth quarter.  Analysts predict Vivendi’s first-quarter revenue will fall
3.8 percent to 6.91 billion euros, according to the average of
eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Net income is expected to
be 743.5 million euros, based on six estimates, compared with an
adjusted figure of 950 million euros reported by Vivendi over
the same period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  