-- Volcker Rule Proponents Say JPMorgan Loss Bolsters Case
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-05-11T17:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/volcker-rule-proponents-say-jpmorgan-loss-bolsters-case.html
U.S. lawmakers and interest groups
favoring tighter restrictions on proprietary trading said
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $2 billion loss on synthetic credit
securities bolsters their case.  Senator  Carl Levin , chairman of the  Permanent Subcommittee 
on Investigations and co-author of the so-called Volcker rule,
said the New York-based bank’s disclosure is a “stark
reminder” to regulators drafting the proprietary-trading ban
required by the Dodd-Frank Act.  “Regulators are under huge pressure by  Wall Street  and
others to weaken the clear language in Dodd-Frank,” Levin, a
Michigan Democrat, said today in a Bloomberg Television
interview. JPMorgan’s trade is “clearly not permitted under the
Volcker language.”  The rule named for former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  was included in the 2010 regulatory overhaul as a way to
keep banks from putting federally insured deposits at risk. Wall
Street firms including JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , have lobbied to expand exemptions included in
their initial proposal, complaining that the measure is so broad
and ill-defined that it will increase risks for clients.  “Their ability to shape the discussion in Washington,
D.C., on the Volcker rule might have gotten materially set
back,”  David Hendler , an analyst at CreditSights Inc., said in
an interview.  Tighter Restrictions  Levin and Senator  Jeff Merkley , the Oregon Democrat who co-
wrote the provision, have used meetings and a comment letter to
press regulators to tighten restrictions in the final rule.
Levin said that while he hadn’t decided whether the disclosure
would lead to congressional hearings, it should underline the
intent of the law for regulators drafting the final rule.  Julie Edwards, Merkley’s spokeswoman, said the JPMorgan
disclosure “speaks for itself.”  Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat who
co-wrote the regulatory law that bears his name, said the loss
“obviously goes counter to the bank’s narrative blaming
excessive regulation for the woes of financial institutions.”  JPMorgan’s travails may serve to undermine banks’ efforts
to shape the Volcker restrictions as regulators including the
Fed, Securities and Exchange Commission and Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. work to complete and implement the final rule,  “They’ve now just provided some ammunition, one would
suspect, to the legislative and regulatory personnel who will
just point at this and say, ‘It seems to me that these people
don’t really have a good handle on what they’re doing,’”
Satyajit Das, author of “Extreme Money: Masters of the Universe
and the Cult of Risk,” said in a phone interview from Sydney.  Self-Inflicted Losses  Jamie Dimon , JPMorgan’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said that while the losses were “self-inflicted,”
they may not have run afoul of the Volcker restrictions and
don’t weaken arguments against the proposal.  “This does not change analyses, facts, detailed
argument,” Dimon said yesterday on a conference call with
analysts. “It is very unfortunate. It plays right into all the
hands of a bunch of pundits out there.”  Volcker, who testified at a Senate Banking Committee
hearing on May 9, told reporters there was “no question” that
lobbying from banks contributed to the complexity of the initial
proposal.  “I could give you stories all day about lobbyists making
things more complicated,” the former Fed chairman said.  The Volcker rule allows banks to continue activities that
are considered hedging, as well as to serve as market-makers,
accepting risk or holding shares of trades to facilitate client
orders.  Hedging Exemption  Dimon said on the conference call that the original premise
of the trades by the chief investment office was for the firm’s
hedging. Synthetic credit products are derivatives that generate
gains and losses tied to credit performance without the owner
buying or selling actual debt.  Levin and Merkley, in their February comment letter, pushed
regulators to tighten the exemption for hedging, calling some of
what may be allowed a “major weakness” in the rule.  “The argument that financial institutions do not need the
new rules to help them avoid the irresponsible actions that led
to the crisis of 2008 is at least $2 billion harder to make
today,” Frank, the top Democrat on the House Financial Services
Committee, said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  