-- Wisconsin Republican Voters Rival Democrats in Recall
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/wisconsin-republican-voters-rival-democrats-in-recall.html
After 15 months of clamoring for
Scott Walker’s recall,  Wisconsin  Democrats learned in the May 8
primary that Republicans are just as energized in their defense
of the first-term governor.  Walker collected almost as many votes as all four
Democratic candidates combined in a race he was all but assured
of winning. A count by the  Associated Press  had the governor
winning 626,538 votes compared with 665,436 for Milwaukee Mayor
Tom Barrett and three other contenders.  “The Republicans treated this in terms of getting out
their vote as if it were a general election,” Barrett said
during a news conference yesterday in Milwaukee. “They worked
as hard as they could.”  The turnout offered a hint of what might come June 5 with
two energized parties clashing in only the third recall of a
governor in U.S. history, said  Charles Franklin , who directs the
Marquette Law School poll. In 2010, 2.1 million people voted in
the governor’s race.  “There’s every reason to believe we’ll hit 2.5 million or
higher, easily,” Franklin said.  With 26 days before the recall vote, polls show hardened
attitudes among Republicans and Democrats.  “ Governor Walker ’s supporters are fired up and are ready
to do whatever it takes to win this thing,” said Ben Sparks,
communications director for the  Republican Party  of Wisconsin.
“Intensity is high.”  Fresh Focus  While Barrett won his party’s primary -- and a do-over of
the 2010 gubernatorial contest that he lost -- the selection of
a nominee “is almost irrelevant,” said Dane County Democratic
Party Chairman Mike Basford. “For many, the only candidate on
the ballot is  Scott Walker .”  Barrett’s 24 percentage point win over former Dane County
Executive Kathleen Falk shows how the effort to oust Walker has
changed. In February 2011, protesters massed at the Capitol in
Madison objecting to limits on collective bargaining by most
public workers that Walker pushed through the Republican-
dominated Legislature.  Organized labor played a key role in obtaining signatures
to force the recall election, yet a May 2 Marquette poll showed
that Walker’s union law was not the top concern of Democrats.
 Job creation  ranked first, at 46 percent. Defeating Walker
ranked second at 25 percent and ending divisiveness was third at
14 percent.  Restoring collective-bargaining rights was fourth, with 12
percent, the poll said.  Political Judo  Democrats are drawing from the Republican campaign playbook
against President  Barack Obama  and turning it against the
governor. They point to Walker’s promise of 250,000 new jobs in
his first term and note that Wisconsin has lost more employment
than any other state in the past year.  Labor, which backed Falk, showed the limitations of its
clout in the primary, Franklin said. Barrett ran up heavy
majorities in blue-collar counties of southeastern Wisconsin.  “The recall shows how strong their organizing strengths
are, but organizing takes you only so far,” Franklin said.
“You have to have a candidate and the issues on your side.
Barrett avoids some of the liabilities of being labor’s hand-
picked candidate.”  Walker has raised more than $25 million for the recall and,
as of April 30, had $4.9 million remaining, according to state
finance records. The combined total of contributions, much of it
coming from out-of-state interests, has already exceeded the
$37.4 million spent in the 2010 governor’s race between Barrett
and Walker.  Barrett, who lost to Walker by about 125,000 votes two
years ago, said he “walks away encouraged” that more Democrats
voted than Republicans. He said his party is united because “we
all understand what’s at stake.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in  Milwaukee  at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  