-- Yankees’ Cashman Says Clemens Sought Trainer’s Hiring
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-10T22:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/yankees-general-manager-called-to-witness-stand-in-clemens-trial.html
The  New York Yankees ’ general manager
told jurors in the perjury trial of retired pitcher  Roger Clemens  that the seven-time Cy Young Award winner pushed for the
hiring of his former trainer after performing poorly in a
playoff game against the  Boston Red Sox  in 1999.  Brian Cashman, who testified as a witness for the
government today in federal court in Washington, described a
conversation he had with Clemens in Fenway Park in  Boston , where
Clemens left the field with a leg injury after just two innings.  “He was down,” Cashman said. “He was frustrated.”  Clemens “asked if we’d strongly consider” hiring his
former strength coach from the  Toronto Blue Jays ,  Brian McNamee ,
“so something like this wouldn’t be happening,” Cashman said.
Clemens told him that McNamee knew his body and how to train
him, Cashman said.  McNamee was hired a few months later as the Yankee’s
assistant strength coach at a $30,000 annual salary as a
“favor” to Clemens, Cashman said.  “Would you have hired him?” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Steven Durham asked.  “No,” Cashman responded, adding that the Yankees already
had a strength coach. Cashman said the hiring occurred after he
met with  George Steinbrenner , the Yankees’ owner at the time.
Steinbrenner died in 2010 at age 80.  Clemens Charges  Clemens, 49, is charged with one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury. He faces as long as 21
months in prison if convicted.  Clemens, who pitched for the Yankees,  Red Sox ,  Houston
Astros  and Blue Jays during a 24-year career, used anabolic
steroids and human growth hormone, or HGH, to remain competitive
as he aged, Durham told jurors in his opening statement.  The drugs were injected into him by McNamee, who worked
with Clemens for 10 years, Durham said. The evidence includes a
needle and cotton balls containing Clemens’s DNA that tested
positive for anabolic steroids kept by McNamee in a Miller Lite
beer can, he said.  McNamee is scheduled to testify next week.  Cashman, 44, told jurors about his own rise from Yankees
intern in 1986 to the team’s highest-ranking administrative post
a dozen years later. He described Clemens as one of the hardest-
working baseball players he’s ever met and said he personally
sought to bring the pitcher to the Yankees in 1999.  ‘Biggest Thing’  “I thought the biggest thing the  New York  Yankees could
utilize was someone like Roger Clemens, because he was
determined to win,” Cashman said. “He would make sure we kept
that competitive drive going. I thought that would counter our
125-win team, as I worried about complacency moving forward.”  Cashman said he first met McNamee in 1994, when the former
New York City police officer was working for the Yankees as a
batting-practice pitcher and so-called bullpen catcher. McNamee
was let go from that post after the 1995 season because Joe
Torre, who was hired as manager, wanted his godson for the job,
Cashman said.  When McNamee returned to the team as assistant strength
coach in 2000, he became popular with players because Clemens
‘picked him so that gave instant credibility to him,’’ Cashman
said.  ‘Not Respecting’  The team’s doctors and trainers, though, complained that
McNamee was “not respecting the boundaries of his position”
and “bleeding” too much into their jobs, Cashman said. Only
team doctors were allowed to inject players with approved
substances, he said.  Clemens told Congress in 2008 that the injections he
received from McNamee were for lidocaine and vitamin B12.
Prosecutors argue that trainers such as McNamee didn’t have the
authority to give injections.  Cashman said he wasn’t aware that trainers were giving B12
shots to players until he looked into the claim following a
report on steroids use in  Major League Baseball  by U.S. Senator
George Mitchell in 2007.  “B12 shots were given and not reflected in the trainers’
reports,” Cashman said under questioning from Clemens’s lawyer,
 Rusty Hardin .  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  