-- Yanzhou Said in Talks to Buy Vale’s Stake in Mine
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-05-10T11:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/yanzhou-coal-said-in-talks-to-buy-vale-s-stake-in-mine.html
Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (1171)  is among
companies in talks to buy  Vale SA (VALE3) ’s stake in an Australian  coal
mine  for more than A$500 million ($503 million), said people
with knowledge of the matter.  Yanzhou and potential buyers from India are studying data
on the Integra coal mine in New South Wales state and may make
final offers as early as this month, said the people, declining
to be identified as the process is private.  Vale (VALE)  owns 61 percent
of the mine, according to its website. Some minority
shareholders may also sell their stakes, the people said.  Vale, the world’s biggest producer of  iron ore , is trimming
assets as a drop in price of the steelmaking raw material and a
slowing economic expansion in  China  erodes profitability. The
company owns other coal assets in Australia, including a stake
in the Carborough Downs coking coal operation in the Bowen Basin
and a $10 billion project in the Galilee Basin. Both are in
Queensland state.  The fourth-biggest coal producer in China raised $991
million by selling U.S. dollar-denominated bonds today,
according to a  filing  to the Hong Kong stock exchange. The funds
will be used to repay debt and on overseas mining operations,
according to the statement.  The spot price of iron ore has declined 22 percent from a
year-high in September, according to The Steel Index.  Bank of America Corp. is advising Vale on the sale, the
people said. Zhang Baocai, Yanzhou’s Shandong-based spokesman,
did not answer calls to his office and mobile phone yesterday.
Brett Fraser, a Vale spokesman in Brisbane, did not immediately
return calls to his office and mobile phone seeking comment.  Underground Mine  Yanzhou in December agreed to buy  Gloucester Coal Ltd. (GCL)  for
about A$2.1 billion in cash and shares to almost double its coal
output in Australia, the world’s biggest exporter of the
commodity. The company bought Felix Resources Ltd. for A$3.1
billion in 2009 and agreed in September to acquire two coal
units of Wesfarmers Ltd. for A$296.8 million.  Vale, also the world’s second-biggest nickel producer, got
1.8 percent of its sales from coal last year, according to  data
compiled  by Bloomberg. The Rio de Janeiro-based company this
month named  Roger Downey  as head of its coal and fertilizers
unit, the fourth replacement of a top executive in less than six
months.  The Integra mine is in the Hunter Valley region and
includes an open-pit and underground mine producing coal used in
energy generation and steelmaking, according to Vale’s website.
Toyota Tsusho Corp. owns 28 percent while steelmakers Nippon
Steel Corp.,  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411)  and Posco each old 3.6 percent,
according to the Register of Australian Mining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  