-- Yen, Dollar Fall Versus Peers as Stocks Reverse Losses
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-05-10T07:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/yen-dollar-fall-versus-peers-as-stocks-reverse-losses.html
The yen and dollar fell against most
of their major peers as Asian stocks reversed earlier losses,
reducing demand for the currencies as havens.  The yen erased gains after  Bank of Japan (8301)  board member
Sayuri Shirai said the central bank must keep monitoring
currency movements.  Australia ’s dollar rallied after the
country’s jobless rate unexpectedly fell. The 17-nation euro was
0.3 percent from its weakest since Jan. 23 against the dollar as
 Greece ’s leaders remained divided on forming a new government,
stoking concern another election could set the stage for the
country’s exit from the currency union.  “The market may not be as risk-averse as people have been
saying,” said Makoto Noji, a Tokyo-based senior debt and
currency strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., a unit of
 Japan ’s third-largest publicly traded bank by assets. “There
would be pressure for the Bank of Japan to ease policy further
if the yen strengthens. Buyers of yen against the dollar may be
limited.”  The yen weakened 0.3 percent to 103.30 per euro at 7:53
a.m. London time, after gaining 0.9 percent yesterday. Japan’s
currency was little changed at 79.72 per dollar. The euro rose
0.3 percent to $1.2957. It touched $1.2912 yesterday, the lowest
since Jan. 23.  The Australian dollar advanced 0.7 percent to $1.0121. The
so-called Aussie rallied 0.8 percent to 80.69 yen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  was little changed after
earlier falling as much as 0.3 percent.  Monitoring Yen Moves  The BOJ must keep paying attention to currency movements,
board member Shirai said to reporters in Akita, northern Japan
today.  The yen slid against the euro as the currency’s 14-day
relative strength index against the euro rose to 72 yesterday,
above the 70 level some traders see as signaling an asset may
reverse direction.  Australia’s unemployment rate fell to 4.9 percent in April
from 5.2 percent a month earlier, the statistics bureau said in
Sydney today. That matches the lowest level since December 2008
and contrasts with a rise to 5.3 percent predicted by economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. Payrolls increased by 15,500,
compared with the median estimate for a reduction of 5,000 in
another poll.  “It was quite a shock drop in terms of unemployment,”
said Callum Henderson, global head of currency research at
Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore , said about Australia’s jobs
data. “The Aussie may gain for the next few days.”  China Trade Data  The Australian currency pared gains after China reported
slower growth in exports and imports. The Asian nation is
Australia’s biggest trading partner.  Overseas shipments rose 4.9 percent from a year earlier,
the customs bureau said on its website today. That compares with
the 8.5 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 33
analysts. Import growth of 0.3 percent trailed forecasts for a
10.9 percent gain. The  trade surplus  was $18.4 billion, almost
double estimates of $9.9 billion.  The euro fell to the lowest in more than three months
yesterday as Greek leaders struggled to reach an agreement on
implementing austerity measures.  Evangelos Venizelos , leader of
Greece’s Pasok party and the former finance minister, said he’ll
try to form a government when he receives a three-day mandate
from President Karolos Papoulias today. Pasok yesterday rejected
terms for a government set by Alexis Tsipras of Greece’s anti-
bailout Syriza party which then gave up its bid to build a
coalition.  Euro-area leaders from the  European Central Bank ’s Joerg
Asmussen to German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble have
begun to raise doubts that Greece can stay in the monetary
union.  Stay or Go  “If Greece decides not to stay in the  euro zone , we cannot
force Greece,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
at a conference sponsored by German broadcaster WDR in Brussels
yesterday. “They will decide whether to stay in the euro zone
or not.”  Asmussen, a member of the ECB’s executive board, told
Handelsblatt on May 8 that for Greece “there is no alternative
to the agreed consolidation program if it wants to remain a
member of the euro zone.”  In  France , industrial production probably fell 0.6 percent
in March from the previous month, when it gained 0.3 percent,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The national
statistics office Insee in Paris will announce data  today .  “The market has started anticipating Greece’s exit from
the euro,” said Junichi Ishikawa, an analyst in  Tokyo  at IG
Markets Securities Ltd. “Selling pressure for the euro remains
intact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  