-- Yucaipa Sued for Back Pay by AFA Foods Meat-Plant Workers
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-05-10T14:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/yucaipa-afa-foods-sued-over-back-wages-of-meat-plant-workers.html
Yucaipa Cos.’ AFA Foods, the ground-
beef processor, was sued for back wages by workers who lost
their jobs when the company sought  bankruptcy protection  after
publicity about “pink slime” meat filler.  About 200 meat-plant workers were fired without being given
the 60 days’ notice required under the federal Worker Adjustment
and Retraining Notification Act, according to a complaint filed
today against Yucaipa and AFA in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  AFA filed for bankruptcy April 2 after reports of so-called
pink slime curbed demand for its products. The company said it
was forced into Chapter 11 in part because of reduced sales and
increased costs spurred by media coverage of the substance,
which ground-beef processors sometimes add to their product.
Celebrity chef  Jamie Oliver  is among food activists who dubbed
it “pink slime.”  The company, based in  King of Prussia ,  Pennsylvania , listed
assets of $219 million and debt of $197 million in Chapter 11
papers. It told the judge overseeing the bankruptcy that it
would try to sell assets as quickly as possible to preserve jobs
and raise money to pay creditors, who probably won’t recover all
they are owed.  Boneless Trimmings  The beef industry calls the meat filler boneless, lean-beef
trimmings. It’s produced by treating finely ground beef scraps
with ammonia hydroxide to kill pathogens. U.S. Agriculture
Secretary Tom Vilsack said March 28 that it’s safe to eat.  AFA used the product only when requested by its customers,
which include restaurants and large grocery stores, the company
said in court last month. AFA also said increased competition
cost it business from some key food-service customers.  Frank Quintero, a spokesman for Los Angeles-based Yucaipa,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail sent before business hours
seeking comment on the workers’ lawsuit. An AFA bankruptcy
attorney, Tobias S. Keller, didn’t immediately return a phone
call to his San Francisco office before business hours.  The case is In re AFA Investment Inc., 12-11127,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  