-- Zon’s Angola Unit to Offset Decline in Portugal, da Costa Says
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2012-05-10T10:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/zon-s-angola-unit-to-offset-decline-in-portugal-da-costa-says.html
Zon Multimedia SGPS SA (ZON) ,  Portugal ’s
biggest cable-television provider, predicted that revenue from
its Angolan unit will offset declining sales at home amid a weak
economy.  “We are already seeing this,” Chief Financial Officer
Jose Pedro Pereira da Costa said in a phone interview. “Angola
will predictably have better earnings and domestically we
shouldn’t expect anything much different than last year.” Total
revenue, which didn’t include Angola, dropped 2 percent in 2011.  The  Portuguese government  is freezing public-sector wages
and cutting pensions and tax benefits in return for a bailout
from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund . The
government predicts the economy will shrink 3 percent this year.  Zon’s first-quarter  sales  were little changed from a year
earlier at 214.2 million euros ($277 million), the Lisbon-based
company said yesterday. Sales of pay-TV, broadband and telephone
services declined 1.9 percent. The  Angola  unit contributed 6.4
million euros to total revenue as Zon started consolidating 30
percent of the venture in the quarter.  The company plans to maintain a “relatively conservative
level of debt” and wants to use an increase in free  cash flow 
to reduce net debt more this year than it did last year, Pereira
da Costa said. Zon reduced its net financial debt by 2.1 million
euros last year to 637.5 million euros, according to the
company’s annual report.  The executive declined to comment on the use of funds for
future dividends. Zon will pay 16 euro cents a share to
investors on 2011 earnings, matching the previous year’s
dividend and exceeding net income.  Zon fell 2.7 percent to 2.54 euros at 10:55 a.m. in Lisbon,
paring the stock’s advance to 9.4 percent this year.  Shareholder Isabel dos Santos, daughter of Angolan
President Jose Eduardo dos Santos, announced May 8 she had
increased her stake in Zon to 14.9 percent, becoming the biggest
investor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  