-- Zurich Insurance Profit Climbs as Catastrophe Claims Drop
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-05-10T07:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-10/zurich-insurance-profit-climbs-78-after-catastrophe-claims-drop.html
Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) ,
 Switzerland ’s biggest insurer, said first-quarter profit climbed
78 percent after claims from natural catastrophes declined from
record levels last year.  Net income rose to $1.14 billion from $640 million in the
year-earlier period, the Zurich-based company said today in an
e-mailed statement. That beat the $1.06 billion average estimate
of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Operating profit at the firm’s general insurance business
tripled after the year-earlier quarter was weighed down by $517
million of claims from five natural disasters in  Australia ,  New
Zealand  and  Japan . Zurich Insurance Chief Financial Officer
Pierre Wauthier expects rates at the unit to continue rising
after increasing by an average of more than 3 percent in the
first quarter.  “General insurance is much stronger than expected, driven
by the lack of catastrophe losses and the fact they were able to
increase prices,” said  Maarten Altena , an Amsterdam-based
analyst with ING Bank, who has a “buy” rating on the stock.
“Global life and Farmers have performed less well.”  Zurich Insurance rose as much as 1.7 percent and was up 1.5
percent to 221 francs as of 9:03 a.m. in Swiss trading. That
brought this year’s gain to 11 percent and gave the firm a
market value of 32.4 billion francs.  Tornado Losses  Operating profit in general insurance, the company’s
biggest unit, climbed to $856 million. Claims inflation and the
low-yield environment will result in further price increases,
according to Wauthier.  Global life operating profit dropped 19 percent to $293
million as low interest rates put pressure on earnings. The
insurer’s Farmers unit suffered from losses from tornadoes and
hailstorms in the U.S, Wauthier said on a conference call.  Zurich Insurance hopes growth in  emerging markets  will help
the firm attain a business operating profit after-tax return on
equity of 16 percent over the long term. The company, which
bought 51 percent of  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s Latin America
insurance business and Malaysian Assurance Alliance Bhd. last
year, will look for further acquisitions in emerging markets,
Wauthier said.  “The execution of our strategy continues to be on track,”
Chief Executive Officer Martin Senn said in the statement. “Our
acquisitions and alliances have allowed us to deepen our
position in several key markets.”  Zurich Insurance said its Swiss Solvency Test ratio dropped
to 185 percent at the end of December from 225 percent six
months earlier because of the lower  interest rates  and the
impact of acquisitions. The test was introduced in January last
year to align insurers’ risks with the capital they hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  