-- Mashaal Tells Hamas He Will Not Seek Leadership
-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-01-21T15:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/hamas-says-mashaal-should-reconsider-decision-on-leadership.html
Khaled Mashaal told the Palestinian
Hamas movement’s ruling council that he does not plan to run
again for its leadership, according to a statement from the
body, which asked him to reconsider his decision.  Mashaal, who lives in Damascus, informed the policy-making
Shura Council that he won’t be a candidate in internal elections
for the Hamas leadership, the panel said its statement, e-mailed
today from the  Gaza Strip .  Dropping out of the leadership of the militant Islamic
organization may leave a vacuum in Hamas, which rules Gaza, at a
time that Mashaal has been the key negotiator in efforts to
reunite with the secular Fatah party, which controls the
Palestinian Authority and the  West Bank . The two sides split in
2007 when Hamas ousted Fatah from Gaza. Hamas won legislative
elections the previous year.  “The leaders and symbols of the movement wish Mr. Mashaal
to reverse his position and leave the issue to the Shura Council
of the movement to evaluate the highest interest of the
movement,” Hamas said in a statement. The decision “is an
affair that is decided by the movement’s establishments and by
him personally.”  Hamas, which is regarded as a terrorist organization by
 Israel , the U.S. and the European Union, has opposed peace talks
with Israel and has been dedicated to the Jewish state’s
destruction since the organization’s founding in 1987. Ismail Haniyeh, the former prime minister of the Palestinian Authority,
is the most senior Hamas leader in Gaza.  Ismail Haniyeh  “Hamas may want to have its major politburo in Gaza
instead of having it in Damascus or any other Arab country,
because Hamas has succeeded in establishing a very good
infrastructure in Gaza in terms of security and economy,” said
Naji Shurab, a political scientist at Gaza’s Al-Azhar
University. “Haniyeh has a good chance to succeed Mashaal.”  Mashaal could not immediately be reached for comment. Azzam al Ahmed, head of the Fatah delegation that has been negotiating
with Hamas said Mashaal’s departure should not interfere with
reconciliation efforts.  “We will deal with whomever the movement chooses,” he
said in a telephone interview from Moscow where he was traveling
with  Palestinian Authority  President  Mahmoud Abbas . “Let’s wait
and see.”  Haniyeh called yesterday for accelerated reconciliation
talks with Fatah in response to Israel’s arrest of a senior
member of the movement, Aziz Dweik, and said that “dark days”
await Israel.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has threatened to
halt cooperation with the Palestinian Authority if it moves
ahead with plans to reunite with Hamas. A plan signed by Mashaal
and Abbas in Cairo last May calls for new Palestinian elections
within a year in which Hamas would participate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza City at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  