-- Nigerian Islamist Group Kills 165 in Bombings
-- B y   M u s t a p h a   M u h a m m a d   a n d   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 2012-01-22T14:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/bombings-said-to-kill-at-least-140-in-nigera-s-kano.html
At least 165 people were killed in
the northern Nigerian city of Kano in bomb attacks on government
buildings, the biggest by the Islamist militant group Boko Haram.  Jama’atu Ahlus Sunnah Lidda’awati Wal Jihad, or Boko Haram,
claimed responsibility for blasts that struck eight government
buildings on Jan. 20, its spokesman, Abu Qaqa, said by phone.
The attack by the group, which seeks sharia rule in  Nigeria ’s
mainly Muslim north, was to avenge the persecution of its
members in Kano, he said.  “It’s another declaration of intent and another indication
of a problem that’s getting bigger, not smaller,” Antony
Goldman, head of PM Consulting, which specializes in risk
analysis in West Africa, said in a phone interview from  London .
The attacks represent a “significant challenge for the
government.”  President  Goodluck Jonathan , who declared a state of
emergency in parts of four states in the northeast region on Dec.
31 to battle the insurgency, will visit Kano today to inspect
the sites of the attacks, Aminu Dantiye, a spokesman for the
Kano state government said by phone. Government buildings
including a regional police office, a smaller station, the
immigration office and a building used by the state security
police, came under bomb and gun attacks yesterday, police said.  Authorities in  Africa ’s top oil producer blame Boko Haram,
whose name means “Western education is a sin,” for bombings
and attacks in the mainly Muslim north and the capital Abuja
over the past year. The group claimed the Christmas Day bombing
of a church near Abuja that killed 43 people and the Aug. 26
suicide-bombing of the United Nations building in the capital
that killed 24 people.  ‘Unprecedented Evil’  Islamic militants pose a worse threat to the country than
the 1967-1970 Biafra civil war, Jonathan said on Jan. 8.  “We will not fold our hands and watch enemies of democracy
perpetrate unprecedented evil in our land, and I want to re-
assure Nigerians and the international community that all those
involved in that dastardly act would be made to face the wrath
of the law,” Jonathan said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Shehu Sani, president of the Civil Rights Congress, whose
members helped to carry dead and wounded to hospitals, confirmed
the fatalities in a phone interview. The dead included
journalist Enenche Akogwu, Lagos-based Channels Television said
in a statement.  Two churches in the northeastern city of Bauchi were
damaged by overnight explosions, following a pattern of attacks
on churches this year claimed by the militant group, Police
Commissioner Ikechukwu Aduba said by phone today from the city
of Bauchi.  In another incident, gunmen killed at least 11 people when
they  attacked a bank, a police station and a hotel today in the
northeastern town of Tafawa Balewa, about 100 kilometers (62
miles) south of Bauchi, police said.  Among the dead were two soldiers, a policeman and eight
civilians, Police Commissioner Okechukwu Aduba, told reporters
in Bauchi, capital of Bauchi state. “Ten unexploded improvised
explosive devices were recovered from the scene and six suspects
were arrested,” he said.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said he’s “appalled at
the frequency and intensity of recent attacks in Nigeria.” The
 African Union  also condemned the attacks. The group will support
the Nigerian government to end all such incidents, its chairman,
 Jean Ping , said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net ;
Mustapha Muhammad in Johannesburg at 
 mmuhammad5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  