-- Carlyle’s Rubenstein Says Buyouts Seek to Add Jobs, Not Loot
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-01-21T21:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/carlyle-s-rubenstein-says-buyouts-seek-to-add-jobs-not-loot.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG)  co-founder  David Rubenstein  said private equity firms rarely fire workers at the
companies they acquire, disputing the allegation that they boost
profits at the expense of U.S. jobs.  The Republican presidential primaries have drawn scrutiny
to private-equity because of Mitt Romney, a candidate for the
nomination, was an executive at Bain Capital LLC.  Newt Gingrich ,
running against Romney, has said that Bain was “exploitative”
and that its business is similar to “looting.”  Private equity firms seek to expand the businesses they
buy, Rubenstein said in an interview on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria
GPS” program, scheduled for broadcast tomorrow.  “The reality is this: Private equity firms are very good
at buying companies, improving them, strengthening them,
actually increasing employment, in many cases,” he told  CNN ,
according to a transcript released by the news network.  “Firing workers is rarely something that’s actually
done,” Rubenstein said. “You know, the private equity
statistics show that when you hire more workers, you actually
make more money. So in the end, private equity firms are trying
to hire more workers and actually make the companies bigger than
they were.”  ‘Looting a Company’  Romney’s career in the private equity business was attacked
in a film paid for by Winning Our Future, the political action
committee that supports Gingrich while operating independently
of his campaign. Gingrich has also questioned whether such
buyouts were akin to “looting a company,” drawing complaints
from Republicans and business leaders.  Rubenstein, who donated $7.5 million last week to repair
earthquake damage to the Washington Monument, said the way his
industry has been depicted in the political arena is
“disappointing if you’re in an industry that is actually adding
value, creating jobs, making America more efficient in many ways
and more effective in many ways.”  “I don’t think what happened to Bain, in terms of the
criticism, is really that fair,” Rubenstein said. “They may
have done some things I don’t know about years ago that aren’t
the practice of today. Remember, much of what  Mitt Romney  did
happened 20 years ago or more. And the practices of the industry
have evolved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  