-- CFTC Position Limits Rule Lawsuit Dismissed by U.S. Appeals Court in D.C.
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-21T00:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/cftc-position-limits-rule-lawsuit-dismissed-by-u-s-appeals-court-in-d-c-.html
Two Wall Street groups’ challenge to
a U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission rule on position
limits must first be considered in a trial court, a federal
appeals court ruled, dismissing the case.  A three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Washington today said it doesn’t have jurisdiction to consider
the case because the Commodity Exchange Act and last year’s
Dodd-Frank law “are silent” on whether the rule can be
directly challenged to the appeals court.  “Initial review occurs at the appellate level only when a
direct-review statute specifically gives the court of appeals
subject-matter jurisdiction to directly review agency action,”
Judges Judith Rogers,  Merrick Garland  and Janice Rogers Brown
said, citing circuit precedent. “There is no express
congressional authorization of direct appellate review
applicable to the petition for review in this case.”  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. 
and  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association  filed
an emergency request Jan. 9 urging the appeals court to put the
rule on hold while the court considers their legal challenge.
The groups asked the court to issue a ruling by Jan. 27.  By dismissing the case, the judges also rejected that
request.  The groups, in one of the financial industry’s highest-
profile efforts to weaken last year’s Dodd-Frank law, filed
lawsuits challenging the rule in two federal courts in
 Washington  last month. The district court lawsuit had been put
on hold while the appeals court considered the case.  Flawed Analysis  They argue that the CFTC used a flawed analysis of Dodd-
Frank when it decided to impose the restrictions. The
associations also said the CFTC failed to properly weigh the
rule’s costs and benefits.  Steven Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on
today’s ruling.  The CFTC on Jan. 4 asked the appeals court to dismiss the
challenge claiming it doesn’t have jurisdiction to consider the
lawsuit.  Ira Hammerman, general counsel for the  Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association , said the association “will
move forward quickly in the district court.”  “The court’s ruling is entirely procedural, and was not a
decision about the merits of our challenge or of our request for
a stay,” Hammerman said.  Steve Kennedy, a spokesman for the  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association Inc. , didn’t immediately respond to a
phone message seeking comment after business hours.  Controversial Provisions  The two associations represent  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , among other banks
and asset managers.  The rule is among the most controversial provisions of
Dodd-Frank, and spurred more than 13,000 public comments to the
CFTC from supporters including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
opponents such as  Barclays Capital . The agency voted 3-2 at an
Oct. 18 meeting to approve the final regulation, with Jill E. Sommers and  Scott O’Malia , both Republicans, voting in
opposition.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. CFTC, 11-01491, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  