-- Costa Chairman Foschi Says Concordia Captain Schettino Didn’t Tell Truth
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2012-01-21T16:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/costa-chairman-says-captain-didn-t-tell-truth.html
Costa Crociere SpA Chairman Pier Luigi Foschi said Francesco Schettino, captain of the Costa
Concordia vessel that ran aground off the coast of  Italy  last
week, didn’t tell the  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  unit the truth.  “Normally, we evaluate the situation and if necessary we
can give advice,” Foschi said in an interview with Italian
state television channel Rai late yesterday. “This time we
didn’t get to give advice because what the captain said in his
22:05 conversation didn’t correspond to the truth.”  The ship struck rocks late on Jan. 13 after Schettino
deviated from the planned route and sailed close to the small
island of Giglio, hours after the vessel left a port near  Rome 
with 4,200 passengers and crew for a Mediterranean cruise.  Schettino told magistrates that he spoke to the person
responsible for the crisis unit and asked for helicopters and
tugboats because he thought the damage could be repaired,
 Corriere della Sera  reported today.  “I am sure I informed him in real time of everything,”
the newspaper cited Schettino as saying.  Schettino said he started to prepare for an evacuation and
didn’t want to cause panic, according to Corriere. Schettino
also told magistrates he thought the vessel would be pushed
closer to the shore where it would have been easier to
disembark, the daily newspaper reported.  Schettino Suspended  Costa Crociere suspended Schettino, who was placed under
house arrest on Jan. 17 for allegedly causing the shipwreck. A
woman’s body was found about 1:30 p.m. local time, bringing the
death toll to 12, while 20 are still missing, SkyTG24 reported
today.  Schettino’s lawyer and Francesco Verusio, the chief
prosecutor of Grosseto who is investigating the accident, didn’t
answer calls today seeking comment. Costa Crociere declined to
add to Foschi’s remarks on television yesterday.  Environment Minister Corrado Clini said there remains a
risk that the 290-meter (951-feet) long ship, which is lying in
an unsteady position, will slip off an underwater ledge and sink
into a 70-meter-deep trough. That might rupture the vessel’s
fuel tanks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  