-- Temasek Agrees to Purchase 4.9% Stake in Godrej Consumer for $136 Million
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-01-21T16:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/temasek-agrees-to-purchase-4-9-stake-in-godrej-consumer-for-136-million.html
Temasek Holdings Pte (TMSK) ,  Singapore ’s
state-owned investment comapny, agreed to buy a 4.9 percent stake 
in  India ’s  Godrej Consumer Products Ltd. (GCPL)  for 6.85 billion rupees
($136 million).  Godrej will issue 16.7 million new preferential shares to
Baytree Investments (Mauritius) Pte, a unit of Temasek, P. Ganesh, executive vice president of finance at Godrej Consumer,
said in a phone interview today. Godrej will sell the shares at
410 rupees a share, the company said in an exchange filing.
Godrej’s shares rose 0.7 percent to 402.8 rupees in Mumbai
trading yesterday.  Temasek, which managed S$193 billion ($152 billion) as of
March 2011, has transformed itself from a holder of stakes in
companies controlled by Singapore’s government to an  investor 
with more than two-thirds of its assets based abroad.  Temasek has invested more in  emerging markets  including
 China , India, Brazil and Mexico, as developing nations led the
global economy’s recovery from its worst recession since World
War II, according to its 2011 review. Godrej Consumer’s net
income has more than quadrupled in the past three years amid
rising consumer spending in the world’s second-most populous
nation.  “The growth of the Indian consumer sector and good
corporate governance of Godrej must have lured Temasek,” said
 Arun Kejriwal , a director at Mumbai-based Kejriwal Research &
Investment Services. “Godrej wants to be a leader in India as
well as be aggressive in smaller emerging markets to diversify
its risk.”  Cosmetica Nacional Stake  Separately, Godrej will buy a 60 percent stake in  Chile ’s
Cosmetica Nacional, it said in an exchange filing. Godrej’s
Ganesh declined to comment on the value of the deal.  The company will fund the deal, which it will complete by
April, using “low-cost overseas debt,” the company said in a
statement. Godrej will increase its stake to 100 percent in the
next three to five years. The acquisition will increase earnings
per share within its first year, the company said. The Mumbai-
based company is controlled by billionaire Adi Godrej.  Godrej has announced eight  acquisitions  since January 2010
as it seeks to increase its overseas sales. The BSE Fast Moving
Consumer Goods Index rallied 9.5 percent last year, while the
BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, tumbled 25 percent.  Godrej’s profit  in the three months ended December 31
increased 41 percent to 1.67 billion rupees from 1.19 billion
rupees in the same period a year earlier, the company said in an
exchange filing today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  