-- EU May Include Asset-Backed Securities in Revised Bank Liquidity Rules
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-01-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/eu-may-include-asset-backed-securities-in-bank-liquidity-rules.html
Banks (SX7P)  may be allowed to include
asset-backed securities in the liquid assets that regulators
demand lenders hold to prevent a credit squeeze, according to a
version of the draft law published by the European Union.  “Asset-backed instruments of high liquid and credit
quality” as deemed by the European Banking Authority may count
as a buffer by regulators, the  document  prepared by  Denmark ,
which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, shows.
Securitizations are currently excluded as liquid assets in rules
known as Basel III, making the debt less attractive to  banks. (SX7P)   The so-called liquidity coverage ratio, a buffer of easy-
to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze, is one of
several measures from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
to prevent financial crises. The collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and Belgium’s Dexia SA were blamed in part on the
lenders running out of short-term funding.  “It’s very good news for European ABS where demand has
been dominated by a few clients mostly in the U.S.,” said
Stefano Loreti, a senior portfolio manager at Cairn Capital that
manages and advises on over $20 billion of assets, including
European ABS. “This development could help bring back European
banks to the investor base.”  Issuance of asset-backed securities have tumbled in  Europe 
after bonds linked to U.S. subprime debt slumped, prompting
investors to shun the hard-to-value securities. Sales of the
debt fell to 74 billion euros ($96 billion) last year from as
much as 510 billion euros in 2006, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co data.  Rule Benefit  Britain, Germany and the Netherlands are Europe’s most
active issuers of asset-backed securities, which banks create by
pooling home and consumer loans and selling them to investors as
notes. The bonds allow lenders to raise capital more cheaply
than by issuing unsecured debt.  “Initially the rule would benefit some transactions in the
U.K., the Netherlands or Germany, but it may end up helping the
broader securitization market in Europe,” said Conor Downey, a
partner at law firm Paul Hastings Janofsky & Walker LLP in
 London  who has advised firms such as JPMorgan and Deutsche Bank
AG on securitization transactions.  The proposals follow the  European Central Bank ’s decision
in December to lower the minimum  credit rating  on collateral it
accepts for loans.  The Jan. 9 document has to be approved by national
governments in the 27-nation EU and the European Parliament
before they can become law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net . 