-- Euro Gains for First Time in Seven Weeks as Region’s Borrowing Costs Fall
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-01-21T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/euro-gains-for-first-time-in-seven-weeks-as-debt-concern-falls.html
The euro rose for the first time in
seven weeks after bets the 17-nation currency would weaken
reached a record and as member nations’ borrowing costs fell at
bond auctions, mitigating debt-crisis pessimism.  The Dollar Index declined for the first time in four weeks
as better-than-forecast U.S. economic data fueled demand for
higher-yielding assets.  Mexico ’s peso and  Sweden ’s krona led
gains against the dollar among major currencies after the
 International Monetary Fund  proposed raising its lending
capacity to protect the global economy. The  Federal Reserve  is
projected to keep its benchmark interest rate target unchanged
at a policy meeting next week.  “The development with European borrowing costs, how they
continued their descent, that took some pressure off the single
currency,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in Washington at
Travelex Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange network.
“Talk that the IMF is considering a bigger lending facility to
help protect the global economy helped fan risk appetite.”  The euro rose 2 percent to $1.2931, the biggest weekly gain
since Oct. 14. It reached $1.2986 yesterday, the highest level
since Jan. 4. The common currency appreciated 2.1 percent to
99.62 yen, after reaching an 11-year low of 97.04 yen Jan. 16.
The dollar was little changed against the yen at 77.01.  Dollar Path  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 1.6 percent to 80.157. It touched 79.999,
its lowest level since Jan. 4.  The  Mexican peso  rose 3.1 percent to 13.1813 per dollar. It
has gained 5.7 percent since December, the best start to the
year since the government reset its nominal value in 1993.  Mexico’s central bank kept its benchmark lending rate
unchanged for the 24th consecutive meeting yesterday as slower
economic growth failed to head off a pick-up in inflation.  Sweden’s krona added 3 percent to 6.7826 per dollar.  Higher-yielding currencies, including the euro, pared their
weekly advances yesterday as speculation mounted the rallies
were overdone.  “What we’ve seen this week has been more of short-covering
and not longs being put on,” said George Dowd, head of Chicago
foreign exchange for Newedge USA LLC, an institutional brokerage
firm. “The rally this week was more technical and not a bullish
indicator. The rally in the euro of the last few days has been
more of a correction from an oversold condition.” Short
positions are bets that an asset will decline in value, while
long positions are wagers on an increase.  Futures, Options  The difference in the number of futures and options wagers
by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a decline in the
euro compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts --
was 160,030, the most ever, according to figures as of Jan. 17
from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
That compared with net shorts of 155,195 a week earlier.  The euro also weakened yesterday as Greek officials
conducted a third day of debt-swap talks with private
bondholders. The group had agreed in October to carry out a 50
percent cut in the face value of the nation’s debt by
voluntarily exchanging outstanding bonds for new securities,
with a goal of reducing the country’s borrowings to 120 percent
of gross domestic product by 2020.  “The euro remains a very vulnerable currency,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at Rabobank International in
 London . “There is still an awful lot to be done in Greece.
Politically, nothing has changed since last year, and there’s
still a lot of pain to come. I am still quite wary about this
upside we’ve seen in the euro.”  Sovereign Borrowers  The euro’s weekly advance came as  Spain , Greece and the
region’s bailout fund sold bonds at lower rates than at previous
auctions, even after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded nine euro area
countries last week and the rescue fund earlier this week.  Spain sold 6.61 billion euros ($8.6 billion) of debt due in
2016, 2019 and 2022 Jan. 19, exceeding the maximum target of 4.5
billion euros set for the auctions.  Greece  sold 1.625 billion
euros of 13-week bills with a yield of 4.64 percent Jan. 17,
down from 4.68 percent on Dec. 20.  Borrowing costs for  France , which lost its AAA rating from
S&P Jan. 13, declined as the nation sold 7.97 billion euros of
medium and long-term securities.  Europe ’s rescue fund, the European Financial Stability
Facility, which had its rating cut to AA+ from AAA Jan. 16 by
S&P, got bids for 4.66 billion euros of 182-day bills the
following day. That was more than triple its sales target of 1.5
billion euros.  IMF Funding  The euro was also supported after the IMF proposed raising
its lending capacity by as much as $500 billion on Jan. 18. The
Washington-based lender wants to increase its resources after
identifying a potential need for $1 trillion in coming years, a
spokesman said in a statement.  The shared currency weakened 4.7 percent in the past year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen
rose 6.2 percent and the dollar fell 0.6 percent.  Australia ’s dollar advanced for a fifth straight week
against the dollar, reaching a 10-week high of $1.0484
yesterday. It was boosted after  China  said its economy expanded
8.9 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, compared
with a Bloomberg News survey that forecast growth of 8.7
percent. China is Australia’s biggest trading partner.  Factory Output  Manufacturing in the  New York  region expanded in January at
the fastest pace in nine months. The Fed Bank of New York’s
 general economic  index rose to 13.5, the highest level since
April, from a revised 8.2 in December. A Bloomberg survey
projected the gauge would rise to 11. Readings higher than zero
signal expansion.  The U.S. consumer price index was little changed for a
second month, Labor Department data showed today in  Washington .
That compared with a median forecast of a 0.1 percent gain in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Excluding volatile food and
fuel costs, the so-called core rose 0.1 percent as projected.  Other reports showed fewer Americans than forecast filed
applications for jobless benefits last week and U.S. housing
starts dropped 4.1 percent to a 657,000 annual rate last month.  “We’re still seeing generally positive U.S. data, while
Europe continues to struggle and is likely headed for a
recession, but the euro has taken something like a breather from
the massive fall it had in December,” said  John Doyle , director
of markets in Washington at currency-trading firm Tempus
Consulting Inc.  The Fed’s rate-setting committee meets Jan. 24-25. It has
indicated it will keep the  benchmark rate  at a record low
through at least mid-2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  