-- European Commission Sticks to Plan for Farm Policy After France Objects
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-21T15:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/european-commission-sticks-to-plan-for-farm-policy-after-france-objects.html
The European Commission will resist
calls by  France , the European Union’s largest agricultural
producer, to scale back environmental clauses within the 27-
nation bloc’s new farm policy, a spokesman said.  The commission doesn’t intend to dilute plans to allocate
30 percent of national agricultural budgets for environmental
measures, leave 7 percent of farm land free of crops and force
farmers to diversify crops they plant, said  Roger Waite , a
spokesman for the commission, in Berlin today, speaking for
Dacian Ciolos, EU agriculture commissioner.  Setting aside 7 percent of land for environmental purposes
is “too much” and in conflict with the need to produce more
 food , Bruno Le Maire, France’s agriculture minister, said this
week in Dijon. He also said 30 percent of national farm budgets
for environmental measures is excessive, and the crop-diversity
plans are incompatible with crops such as corn.  Ciolos made the proposals in October to change EU farm
policy. The EU spent 58.2 billion euros ($75.3 billion) on
agriculture and rural development in 2010, or 47 percent of the
total budget. France wants overall spending to be little changed
when the Common Agricultural Policy is overhauled after 2013.  “We have to take into account the concern of taxpayers
about biodiversity,  climate change  and other environmental
issues, and use the CAP to emphasize the environmental public
goods which farmers provide,” Waite said.  The commissioner is “absolutely” sticking to 30 percent
of farm spending at a national level for environmental measures,
Waite said.  Farm Land  Reserving farm land for so-called ecological focus areas
will mean marginal land on most farms, such as hedge rows, field
margins and tree rows to protect crops from wind erosion, become
eligible for direct payments, Waite said.  “I underline that this is not set-aside,” Waite said.
“The aim is to have a positive effect on biodiversity loss,
climate change and environmental problems throughout the EU by
making everybody do it.”  The commission’s crop-diversity proposals don’t amount to
forced crop rotation, according to Waite. Under the plan,
farmers must grow at least three crops and can’t plant more than
70 percent of a single crop in order to get subsidies.  “This is not crop rotation, this is crop diversity, and
the main aim is to address the environmental problems caused by
mono-culture,” Waite said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  