-- Texas Rangers Pitcher Yu Darvish Prepares for Adjustments in U.S. Baseball
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-01-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/texas-rangers-pitcher-yu-darvish-prepares-for-adjustments-in-u-s-baseball.html
Yu Darvish, the two-time Most
Valuable Player in  Japan ’s Pacific League, says he is ready to
be “Americanized” as he adjusts to playing U.S. baseball for
the  Texas  Rangers.  Darvish was introduced last night by General Manager Jon Daniels whose Major League Baseball team paid a record $51.7
million fee for the right to negotiate with the right-handed
pitcher. Darvish, 25, said he signed with the Rangers because
team members including Daniels treated him like family.  “I know there are a lot of adjustments I need to make, not
only in the  United States  and Texas, but I know baseball is
different,” Darvish said through an interpreter at the press
conference. “When I was on the mound and looked over my
shoulder, I thought the wall was a little closer. I have to
become more Americanized.”  The Rangers didn’t disclose terms of the 25-year-old’s six-
year contract, which  MLB.com said  is worth approximately $60
million. Darvish has gone 93-38 with a 1.99 earned run average
in seven seasons with the Hokkaido Nippon Ham Fighters.  The Rangers’ posting fee, which gave them 30 days to reach
an agreement with Darvish and his agents, surpassed the highest
previous  Major League Baseball  posting fee for a Japanese player,
the $51.1 million the Boston Red Sox bid in 2007 for pitcher
Daisuke Matsuzaka.  Different League  “I am looking forward to a different environment,
different hitters and a different league,” said Darvish, who
went 18-6 with a 1.44 ERA in 28 games for Nippon Ham last season.
Darvish also said his repertoire of breaking pitches may help
him achieve good results, even if his fastball doesn’t have a
high velocity.  The Rangers begin spring training next month and open the
season on April 6 at home against the  Chicago White Sox .  Texas won the American League championship the past two
seasons before losing in the  World Series  to the San Francisco
Giants in 2010 and the  St. Louis Cardinals  last year.  “This year, I want to do the best I can, make my starts
and do the best for the team,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  