-- Finns Pick Niinistoe in Presidential Vote
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-01-22T20:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/finns-start-presidential-election-as-anti-euro-sentiment-wanes.html
Sauli Niinistoe of the pro- Europe 
National Coalition Party won the first round of Finland’s
presidential election, garnering 37 percent in a vote affirming
Finns’ support for the bloc’s single currency.  Green League’s Pekka Haavisto came second with 18.8 percent
of votes and the Center Party’s Paavo Vaeyrynen, who has
campaigned against the euro, had 17.5 percent, as all ballots
had been counted, according to the Justice Ministry’s election
website. Turnout was 72.7 percent.  The outcome suggests Finns are turning their backs on
politicians that have called for the country to sever ties with
the euro region as it struggles to contain its debt crisis. The
shift in sentiment comes less than a year after Timo Soini led
his anti-euro “The Finns” party in a fourfold surge in the
parliamentary election. Soini placed fourth in today’s vote with
9.4 percent. Niinistoe is a former banker and finance minister
who took  Finland  into the euro in 1999.  “Criticism against the euro didn’t catch on” among
voters, Niinistoe, 63, said in an interview. “The anti-euro
candidates didn’t get unexpectedly high votes today.”  Haavisto said he was surprised how well his Green platform
had been received. “That is the secret of this campaign:
Everyone is with us,” he told supporters.  PM’s Candidate  Finland, one of four remaining AAA rated euro countries,
has threatened to derail efforts to solve the debt crisis,
including demanding collateral to provide emergency funds to
Greece. Niinistoe, a member of Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen ’s
National Coalition party, served as finance minister for the
seven years until 2003 and helped rebuild Finland’s economy
after the early 1990s recession and banking crisis. He lost in
2006 to President Tarja Halonen, who’s stepping down after a
two-term limit.  Soini, who has said  Greece  should be allowed to default and
talks of reintroducing the Finnish markka as part of a euro
exit, wasn’t “disappointed” at not making it to the second
round, he said in an interview with broadcaster YLE TV1.  Europe’s debt crisis is in its third year after Greece was
forced to seek a bailout in 2010, followed by Ireland and
 Portugal . Italy and Greece have appointed former central bankers
and bureaucrats as their prime ministers to push through
unpopular austerity measures.  Limited Powers  In Finland, the president is the head of state, while the
prime minister runs the government day to day. The president’s
powers include steering foreign policy in cooperation with the
government, appointing top-ranking civil servants such as the
central bank governor and commanding the armed forces. Bank of
Finland Governor Erkki Liikanen’s second and final term ends in
July 2018 and there’s a chance his successor will be named by
the new president.  The president’s ability to impact internal politics is
limited and the legislative powers will be further curtailed by
a constitutional amendment that comes into force on March 1.  The Center Party’s Vaeyrynen eroded Soini’s support by
adopting part of his anti-euro platform. Niinistoe has said the
only remedy to ending the crisis is reducing debt.  Excess debt across the developed world has been caused by a
“systemic error” in values and thinking and will be corrected
“once we see more selflessness than greed and more
responsibility than indifference,” Niinistoe wrote on his
website.  Euro Support  The rise of “The Finns” party in April reflected Finnish
taxpayers’ disgruntlement over handing over cash to governments
that overspent. Even so, two thirds of Finns support membership
in the euro, according to a Dec. 27 poll in  Helsingin Sanomat .  The winner will replace Halonen. The first woman head of
state in the Nordic nation has served two consecutive terms and
is barred by the constitution from seeking re-election. In 2006,
she won 51.8 percent of votes to beat Niinistoe’s 48.2 percent
to secure her second six-year term.  Niinistoe is married to his party’s spokeswoman Jenni
Haukio, 34, a published poet. He has two sons from a previous
marriage to Marja-Leena Alanko, who passed away in 1995.  Haavisto helped mediate peace in Sudan and Darfur from 2005
until 2007 as a special representative appointed by the  United
Nations , following in the footsteps of 2008 Nobel Peace Laureate
Martti Ahtisaari, also a former president of Finland. Haavisto
is one of the founding members of the Green League and lives in
a registered partnership with Antonio Flores from  Ecuador .  The “heavy burden” of Finland’s history of three wars
during the past century has taught the nation a “hard lesson”
and forged it into a peacemaker, Haavisto wrote on his website.
Finland must be more active in offering help where it’s needed,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  