-- G-20 to Shore Up Sovereign Financing After Meeting
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-01-21T00:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/g-20-to-shore-up-sovereign-financing-after-meeting-correct-.html
The G-20 agreed on the need to do
more to support indebted nations, Mexico’s Deputy Finance
Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez  said.  “There is consensus about shoring up several proposals
that support sovereign financing programs,” for both  Europe  and
the  International Monetary Fund , Rodriguez told reporters after
a meeting of representatives from the organization today in
Mexico City. “The discussions that we had yesterday and today
are a very important starting point in having achieved a
consensus to give more resources,” he said.  The International Monetary Fund proposed this week to raise
its lending capacity by as much as $500 billion to insulate the
world against any worsening of Europe’s debt crisis. Officials
in Mexico didn’t discuss how much they would loan the IMF,
though they did agree to move forward on the issue, Rodriguez
said.  Policy makers and business leaders will meet at the  World
Economic Forum  starting on Jan. 25 after the  World Bank  cut its
global growth forecast this month by the most in three years,
saying that a recession in the euro region threatens to
exacerbate a slowdown in  emerging markets .  The world economy will grow 2.5 percent this year, down
from a June estimate of 3.6 percent, according to the World
Bank.  Among G-20 countries “there is recognition of the measures
that have been taken in Europe. At the same time there is also
clarity that more needs to be done,” Rodriguez said.  Mexican policy makers have indicated that the country may
contribute more to the IMF and would push for greater support
for the fund through its leadership position in the G-20.  “This will be one of the important jobs under  Mexico ’s
presidency, to seek out ways to financially strengthen,” the
IMF, central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said Nov. 30. Mexico
would be “more than willing to collaborate and offer resources
to support a greater range of action” by the fund, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  