-- Germany’s Westerwelle Urges Iran to Begin ‘Serious Dialogue’
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-01-21T00:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/germany-s-westerwelle-urges-iran-to-begin-serious-dialogue-.html
The U.S. and the European Union are
urging Iran to return to talks centered on its disputed nuclear
program, German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said, amid
steps to expand economic sanctions on the Islamic republic.  If Iran’s leaders agree to a “serious dialogue,” they
must be prepared to discuss steps to give up “options for
nuclear weapons,” he said in an interview yesterday at
Bloomberg’s Washington office.  “Just meetings for propaganda and show is not what we are
seeking,” he said.  Westerwelle spoke as he and other EU foreign ministers plan
to meet Jan. 23 to consider imposing an oil embargo and
additional financial sanctions against the Persian nation, and
as international nuclear inspectors plan to visit the Iranian
capital Tehran.  “A serious dialogue means that we have the commitment of
the Iranian government” to address what the U.S. and Europe say
is  Iran ’s prohibited work toward possible nuclear weapons,
Westerwelle said. “This is important.”  Westerwelle was in Washington to discuss Iran and other
foreign policy priorities with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton . He said the EU remains committed to the euro common
currency and will erect a firewall to stem the debt crisis.  “We have to erect a firewall,” Westerwelle said in a
separate interview on Bloomberg Television. “We have to show
solidarity. We have to support those countries that are now in
serious trouble.” He said “a long-term solution” is being
sought.  Euro Outlook  The “euro currency is strong, is successful and will
survive,” Westerwelle said. “It is absolutely decisive that we
stay together in the euro region, that we understand  Europe  and
the euro zone is not only our destiny, it’s also our desire.”  At a press conference with Clinton, Westerwelle said that
the “the door for serious dialogue remains open” with Iran.
Clinton underscored his diplomatic outreach by stressing the
benefits of engagement for the Iranian people.  “We do not seek conflict” with Iran, Clinton said. “We
strongly believe the people of Iran deserve a better future.
They can have that future, the country can be reintegrated into
the global community, able to share in the benefits when their
government definitively turns away from pursuing nuclear
weapons.”  Iran says its nuclear program is intended to generate
electricity and for medical uses.  Tougher Sanctions  Dennis Ross , a former Middle East adviser to President
 Barack Obama , said this stand-off over Iran’s nuclear program
differs from earlier clashes in the strength and breadth of the
sanctions the U.S. and its allies have assembled.  “There’s one big difference now, and that difference is
that the pressure is now dramatically higher,” Ross said in a
telephone interview. Iran’s “currency has been significantly
devalued, they’re facing a boycott of their oil, this goes much
more to the heart of managing their economy,” he said.  EU foreign ministers are set to meet Jan. 23 in Brussels to
discuss freezing assets of Iran’s central bank and imposing a
ban on Iranian oil imports, a decision that requires unanimous
backing among the bloc’s 27 nations. The embargo would hurt
countries such as  Greece , Italy and  Spain , which are dependent
on Iranian supplies and would need to find alternate sources.  Westerwelle acknowledged that Greece is “in an extremely
difficult situation” but said that widening sanctions on Iran’s
energy and financial sectors was the right move. The foreign
minister said the prospect of higher oil costs pales compared to
the strategic costs if Iran obtained nuclear weapons, which he
said would be “10 to 100 times more.”  Oil Embargo  Clinton and Westerwelle expressed optimism that EU members
would move forward on the oil embargo.  “There is a realistic chance that we will have a clear
result of our meeting on Monday,” he said in the interview with
reporters and editors.  The EU yesterday released an Oct. 21 letter that foreign
policy chief  Catherine Ashton  wrote to Iranian Foreign Minister
 Ali Akbar Salehi  laying out the EU’s interest in talks. The
letter suggests confidence-building measures and a step-by-step
approach without offering details of what those measures would
entail.  The main focus of the talks needs to be on “developing
practical steps aimed at rebuilding confidence in the
exclusively peaceful nature” of Iran’s nuclear activities,
Ashton said in the letter.  “It is crucial to look for concrete results,” she wrote.  ‘Seeking Clarity’  Iran still hasn’t responded to the letter. On Jan. 19,
Salehi said that he has asked  Turkey  to deliver a letter to
Ashton that proposes talks be revived.  “We all are seeking clarity about the meaning behind
Iran’s public comments that they are willing to engage, but we
have to see a seriousness and sincerity of purpose coming from
them,” Clinton said.  The U.S. and EU standards for restarting discussions with
Iran effectively set preconditions that may scuttle the prospect
for engagement,  Vali Nasr , a former adviser to the Obama and
George W. Bush administrations, said in an interview yesterday.  “That’s not a good way to do diplomacy,” said Nasr, now a
professor of international politics at Tufts University in
Medford,  Massachusetts .  As the EU pressed its interest in renewing talks with Iran,
French President Nicholas Sarkozy warned that a military
confrontation would unleash chaos in the  Middle East . He urged
that “much stronger sanctions” be adopted in an effort to
prevent a clash, including a freeze of central bank assets and
an oil import ban.  Iranian Threats  Tensions with Iran have risen in recent weeks with Vice
President Reza Rahimi warning on Dec. 27 that Iran, the second-
biggest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries after  Saudi Arabia , may close the  Strait of Hormuz  if
western nations block its crude oil sales.  Iran’s ambassador to the  United Nations ,  Mohammad Khazaee ,
said on the Charlie Rose show Jan. 18 that his country doesn’t
plan to do so “unless Iran is threatened seriously and somebody
wants to tighten the noose.”  “I believe that we’re making it clear” to Iran, Clinton
said, that “its pursuit of nuclear weapons and its needless
provocations, such as the threats regarding the Strait of
Hormuz, place it on a dangerous path.”  Nuclear Inspectors  Inspectors from the  International Atomic Energy Agency  are
due to arrive in Tehran on Jan. 29 to discuss Iran’s nuclear
program, the Iranian state-run Mehr news agency reported Jan.
18, citing Iran’s ambassador to the United Nations nuclear
watchdog.  Commenting on the euro crisis, Westerwelle said that it is
a crucial time “not only for Greece, but for the euro zone.”  “We have to support those countries that are now in
serious trouble,” Westerwelle said in the television interview.
“It is necessary that structural reforms come through in
Greece.”  “Our German commitment is that all European countries stay
on board, that all members of the euro zone stay on board and
that we solve this crisis together,” Westerwelle said in the
meeting with Bloomberg reporters and editors.  He said he has
seen some “positive signals” at the beginning of 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  