-- Gorman’s Pay Said to Be Cut 25% as Dimon’s $23 Million Held Flat for 2011
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-01-23T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/gorman-s-pay-said-to-be-cut-25-as-dimon-s-23-million-held-flat.html
Morgan Stanley reduced Chief
Executive Officer  James Gorman ’s 2011 pay by 25 percent from a
year earlier as  JPMorgan Chase & Co . held  Jamie Dimon ’s
compensation steady, said two people familiar with the plans.  Dimon is likely to receive $23 million, more than double
Gorman’s $10.5 million package, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the total pay amounts aren’t
public. Dimon got about $17.3 million in stock and options,
while Gorman received $5.1 million of shares, according to Jan.
20 regulatory filings.  The pay reflected the divergence in performance in a
difficult year for bank stocks. JPMorgan posted record earnings
in 2011, helped by releases of loan-loss reserves as revenue
fell 5 percent, while  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s  profit  dropped 13
percent. Morgan Stanley shares dropped 44 percent, double
JPMorgan’s 22 percent decline.  “It was a very, very volatile year, not only on  Wall
Street  but in  capital markets  as well,” said Frank Glassner,
CEO of Veritas Executive Compensation Consultants in  San
Francisco . “We’re still suffering the backlash from a very poor
world economy.”  Financial stocks were the worst performing among the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 10 sectors last year. Concerns
that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis would spread to lenders
sapped deal activity and trading volume and the  Federal
Reserve ’s low interest rates helped to bring down margins.  Biggest U.S. Bank  JPMorgan surpassed  Bank of America Corp.  as the largest
U.S. lender by assets last year and was the most profitable  U.S.
bank  as net income climbed 9 percent to about $19 billion. The
provision for credit losses dropped 54 percent as the  U.S.
economy  improved and net charge-offs fell by $11 billion.  Dimon’s pay package last year consisted of $1 million in
salary, a $5 million cash bonus and $17 million in stock and
options. JPMorgan increased his salary in March to $1.5 million.  A majority of Dimon’s wealth is in  JPMorgan stock . Before
Jan. 20, he and his wife owned directly or through trusts and
retirement plans more than 5.1 million shares valued at more
than $184.1 million as of Jan. 13, when his total holdings were
last disclosed. The amounts exclude  stock options .  Morgan Stanley’s profit fell to $4.11 billion last year as
the firm had a 4 percent return on equity, below Gorman’s goal
of “mid-teens.” The firm, the sixth-largest U.S. bank by
assets, posted the only trading revenue increase among the major
U.S. lenders, excluding accounting gains.  Taking Losses  Morgan Stanley had per-share losses in two of the past
three quarters as it took charges to eliminate swap contracts
purchased from  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  and to convert Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc.’s preferred stake to common shares.  Gorman won’t receive an immediate cash bonus, and the rest
of his pay is composed of his $800,000 salary, deferred cash and
compensation tied to company performance measures, one of the
people said.  Gorman got total compensation last year of $14 million,
including salary, a $1.6 million cash bonus, $3.9 million of
restricted stock, $3.5 million of options and $2.3 million of
deferred cash. The package also included $1.9 million of stock
awards that are tied to company performance measures such as ROE
and relative shareholder return.  Morgan Stanley is cutting pay for senior investment bankers
and traders an average of 20 percent to 30 percent, people with
knowledge of the decision said last week. The New York-based
firm is capping immediate cash bonuses at $125,000 as it defers
a greater share of awards, a person briefed on the plan said.  Operating Committee  Total compensation for each member of Morgan Stanley’s
operating committee fell at least 20 percent, and none will get
an immediate cash bonus, one of the people said.  Lee Raymond, former CEO of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and a JPMorgan
board member since 1987, heads the lender’s compensation
committee. Erskine Bowles, former White House chief of staff and
a Morgan Stanley director since 2005, leads that firm’s
committee.  Jes Staley, 55, CEO of JPMorgan’s investment bank, received
the second-biggest share of the firm’s compensation pool, among
the executives disclosed, with about $8 million in restricted
shares and 224,972 stock options, the filings show.  Mary Erdoes, the 44-year-old head of asset management, got
the next-highest payout with $7.1 million in restricted shares
and 224,972 options. She was followed by Chief Investment
Officer Ina Drew, 55, with $7.1 million in restricted shares and
168,729 options.  Morgan Stanley Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat was
awarded restricted shares valued at $3.2 million, according to a
filing.  Greg Fleming , who runs the firm’s brokerage and asset-
management businesses, received 187,234 restricted stock units
valued at $3.4 million.  Colm Kelleher, co-president of the institutional securities
group who oversees trading, received restricted shares valued at
$2.6 million. Paul J. Taubman, the co-president of ISG who runs
 investment banking , was granted shares valued at $3.4 million.
Total compensation for the two co-presidents was the same, one
of the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  