-- Indonesia Wants to Boost Rice Production By 10 Million Tons, Suswono Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-21T15:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/indonesia-seeks-10-million-ton-rice-crop-increase-suswono-says.html
Indonesia , the world’s third-largest
rice consumer, wants to increase domestic production of the
grain by 10 million metric tons, Agriculture Minister Suswono
Asyraf said.  “Our farmers can produce 37 million tons, but we need much
more,” Suswono said at a meeting of agriculture ministers in
Berlin today. “Our target is to expand the rice production
considerably, so that we can increase rice production by 10
million tons, so Indonesia will have enough rice.”  The Southeast Asian country will produce 37.3 million tons
of rice on a milled basis in 2011-12, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates, up from 35.5 million tons a year earlier.
Imports will be 1 million tons, down from 2.78 million tons in
2010-11, the USDA forecasts.  Boosting rice production is a “very important” policy
goal, Suswono said, whose comments were translated from Bahasa
Indonesia. He didn’t give a time frame for increased output.  Indonesia, which gets “very strong” rainfall in the rainy
season and is prone to floods, hasn’t had any flooding this
season, according to Suswono. “So there hasn’t been any
negative effect on  food security ,” he said.  The country is working to improve irrigation, reduce
dependence on chemical fertilizers and is developing
genetically-modified rice to boost yields as well as adapt crops
to  climate change , the minister said.  Rice Research  “We have to put a lot of efforts into research to improve
the rice varieties and to improve the productivity,” the
minister said. Indonesia has developed 200 rice varieties, with
productivity that is 1 1/2 times increased, he said.  “This is very important technology, and I hope we will
have better international research cooperation, especially to
continue to the work on genetically modified rice varieties,”
Suswono said.  Rice consumption in Indonesia is more than 100 kilograms
(220 pounds) a person each year, and the government is trying to
shift consumers to other foods to reduce dependence on the
grain, according to Suswono.  “We want to diversify consumption patterns,” Suswono
said. “It’s very, very difficult actually, there’s a saying in
Indonesia that if you haven’t eaten rice during the day, you
haven’t eaten at all. So we need to educate our population.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Berlin at  rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  