-- Kenya’s Military Says Somalia Incursion Reaches Halfway Point
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-01-21T09:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/kenya-s-military-says-somalia-incursion-reaches-halfway-point.html
Kenya’s military said its battle to
crush an al Qaeda-linked insurgency in southern  Somalia  has
reached the halfway mark and said its forces struck several
command centers and logistic facilities operated by the al-
Shabaab group.  “The war is almost half lost; al-Shabaab is now facing
serious challenges as far as command and control is concerned
and logistical support,” Colonel Cyrus Oguna, an army
spokesman, told reporters in Kenya’s capital, Nairobi, today.
“It will not take a very long time before al-Shabaab is
completely buried.”  In October, Kenyan troops entered Somalia saying they were
pursuing al-Shabaab and securing the country’s borders and have
since intensified attacks against the group’s bases. The
incursion came after several foreign tourists and aid workers
were murdered and abducted on Kenyan territory.  Kenya  blames al-
Shabaab for the attacks, a charge the militants have denied.  Oguna said that in the past week, Kenyan forces have
destroyed four of al-Shabaab’s organizational camps, some in the
areas of Jilib and Bibi. Information about the fighting cannot
be independently verified and the two sides’ version of events
generally conflict.  Kenya may know by mid-February whether the  United Nations 
will permit its soldiers to “re-hat” under the African Union
Mission in Somalia, which is mandated by the UN, Lindsay
Kiptiness, a Foreign Affairs Ministry spokesman, said today.  Al-Shabaab has been battling Somalia’s western-backed
government for five years and controls most of the southern and
central regions. Somalia has had no effective central government
since the downfall of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre two decades
ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 