-- Obama Says He Plans to Spur Manufacturing
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r ,   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-01-21T18:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/obama-says-action-to-boost-tourism-part-of-broader-strategy.html
President  Barack Obama  said he is
working to foster job growth in ways that don’t require
Congressional approval and plans to outline steps next week to
spur the nation’s manufacturing and energy industries.  The president said today that proposals advanced this week
to boost tourism are among the many actions he’s taken to create
jobs. Separately, in a video to supporters, he said his State of
the Union address next week will include plans for “good jobs”
at factories, boost energy development and create an economy
“where everybody gets a fair shot, everyone does their fair
share and everybody plays by the same set of rules.”  “Too often over the last few months, we’ve seen Congress
drag its feet and refuse to take steps we know will help
strengthen our economy,” he said in the  weekly radio and
Internet address.  “That’s why this is the latest in a series of
actions I’ve taken on my own to help our economy keep growing,
creating jobs, and restoring security for middle-class
families.”  The president will deliver his annual address to Congress
next week and spell out his priorities as he runs for re-
election in a contest in which the  U.S. economy  will be a
dominant issue. While the unemployment dropped last month to 8.5
percent from a high of 10 percent in 2009, the nation’s
employers have yet to replace all the jobs lost during the 18-
month recession that began in 2007.  In his video message today, Obama offered a preview of what
he intends to outline in his speech next week, without giving
any specific proposals.  ‘More Good Jobs’  He said he’ll outline plans to create “more good jobs” at
U.S. manufacturers, foster energy development, and rebuild “an
economy where hard work pays off and responsibility is
rewarded.”  “I’m going to talk about how we’ll get there,” Obama
said. “I’m going to lay out a blueprint for an American economy
that’s built to last.”  During an appearance at Walt Disney World in  Orlando ,
 Florida , this week, Obama issued an  executive order  to increase
the number and speed the approval of non-immigrant visas,
particularly in  China  and  Brazil . The Republican presidential
primary will be held there on Jan. 31.  Florida offers 29 of the 270 electoral votes needed to win
the White House and has a recent history of swinging between the
Democratic and Republican candidates. Obama won the state in
2008 while Republican  George W. Bush  won in 2000 and 2004.  Obama said in his radio address that frequent travelers who
“pass an extensive background check” will be able get past
long immigration lines at a greater number of airports under the
order.  ‘Back to Work’  He is also calling for the Commerce and Interior
Departments to make recommendations on promoting domestic and
international travel in the U.S., including national parks and
historic sites.  “The more folks who visit America, the more Americans we
get back to work,” he said in the address. “It’s that
simple.”  Travel and tourism represented about 2.7 percent of U.S.
gross domestic product and supported 7.5 million jobs in 2010,
according to a White House statement.  Obama listed other actions he’s taken without congressional
approval, including appointing  Richard Cordray  to head the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and helping homeowners
whose home values have fallen refinance mortgages more easily.  Republican Address  In the Republican weekly  address , Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of  Texas , chairman of the House Republican Conference
said Obama’s economic policies “have failed the American
people.”  Looking ahead to Obama’s speech, Hensarling said the State
of the Union “is a time for truth-telling, and the sad truth is
that the president’s policies are making our economy worse. ”  Hensarling said fewer Americans have jobs than when Obama
took office in January 2009, and that the U.S. has higher  gas
prices , more people on  food stamps  and a  national debt  that
exceeds the size of the economy.  Obama’s rejection of the TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL
pipeline proposal this week “wasted a golden opportunity” to
create thousands of jobs, Hensarling said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net 
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  