-- Loonie Gains Second Week as Global Growth Signs Spur Risk Demand
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-21T05:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/loonie-gains-second-week-as-global-growth-signs-spur-risk-demand.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened for a
second-consecutive week versus its U.S. counterpart as the
currencies of commodity producing nations rallied as investors
bet on faster global growth and sought higher-yielding assets.  The currency advanced less against the greenback than the
majority of its most-traded peers as a report yesterday showed
inflation slowed last month, adding to speculation the Bank of
Canada will hold interest rates at 1 percent for longer and
dimming the appeal of the nation as an investment location.
 Statistics Canada  will probably say retail sales rose for a
fourth consecutive month in November, economists predict.  “Macro sentiment and the improvement of risk appetite
overshadowed a lot of the Canada-specific news,”  Omer Esiner ,
chief market analyst in  Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign
Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage said. “European bond
auctions, Chinese data outweighed data out of Canada. The Bank
of Canada probably won’t raise rates this year.”  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is also known, rose 1
percent to C$1.0132 in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 98.70
U.S. cents. Canada’s currency reached a high for the year of
C$1.0071 on Jan. 19.  The dollar fetched C$1.31035 versus the euro, a 1 percent
decline, after strengthening against the 17-nation common
currency for the eight prior weeks.  Higher-yielding assets such as equities had five-day
advances as Spain and France sold bonds at lower yields and a
report showed faster-than-forecast growth in  China .  Risk Rally  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  added 2 percent and the
MSCI World Index of equities in developed nations advanced 3
percent this week. Gold rose yesterday for the third time in
four days on increased demand for the precious metal, while
silver jumped to a five-week high.  Canadian  government bonds  fell, driving benchmark 10-year
yields 14 basis points higher to 2.06 percent, the highest
weekly close since the five-days ended Dec. 9. The 3.25 percent
securities due in June 2021 fell C$1.26 to C$110.08.  The difference between two- and 10-year government bonds
widened to 101 basis points, or 1.01 percentage points,
yesterday. It narrowed to 96 basis points on Jan. 17, the least
since September 2008. A flatter yield curve generally indicates
a worsening economic outlook.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback fell to as low as 8.13 percent
yesterday from 11 percent at year-end. Implied volatility, which
traders quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected
pace of swings in the underlying currency.  Consumer Prices  The loonie has weakened 2.7 percent in the past year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The  U.S. dollar  has
lost 0.6 percent and the euro has fallen 4.7 percent.  The Canadian dollar dropped yesterday versus its U.S.
counterpart after a government report showed the nation’s
inflation rate fell more than economists anticipated, weakening
the argument for higher  interest rates .  “The CPI result was a little disappointing,”  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co .,
said by phone from  New York , referring to the consumer price
index that measures inflation. “The key takeaway from those is
that there’s no indication of any rate increase or removal of
monetary stimulus. Even though the MPR analysis was slightly
firmer in tone, the fact that there’s no policy change in the
foreseeable future. The CPI reinforces that message.”  Inflation Outlook  Consumer prices fell 0.6 percent in December, compared with
an advance of 0.1 percent the previous month, Statistics Canada
said in Ottawa. The rate climbed 2.3 percent from a year
earlier. The median  forecast  of 23 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 0.2 percent monthly drop and a 2.7 percent
annualized increase.  The  Bank of Canada  raised its inflation forecast for this
year in a monetary report this week. Inflation will average 2.2
percent this quarter and 1.5 percent from April to June, faster
than October forecasts of 1.9 percent and 1 percent, the Jan. 18
report said.  Governor  Mark Carney  kept his benchmark lending rate at 1
percent on Jan. 17, prolonging the longest pause since the bank
began using it as a policy measure in 1994. The economy will be
hobbled by a European recession and slowing growth in China and
the U.S., the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  