-- QPR Beats Wigan 3-1 to End Winless Run in English Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-21T20:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/qpr-beats-wigan-3-1-to-end-winless-run-in-english-premier-league.html
Queens Park Rangers and Bolton
Wanderers both won 3-1 to move out of the relegation places
in English soccer’s Premier League.  QPR defeated Wigan to end a nine-game winless run in the
league and climb two spots to 16th place, while Bolton beat
Liverpool to jump up two places to 17th. The bottom three teams
in the 20-team league drop to the second-tier Championship after
the season.  Clint Dempsey ’s hat trick helped Fulham beat Newcastle 5-2,
while  Robbie Keane  scored twice as Aston Villa won 3-2 at 10-man
Wolverhampton. West Bromwich defeated Stoke 2-1, Sunderland beat
Swansea 2-0, Everton and Blackburn drew 1-1, and Norwich and
Chelsea finished 0-0.  Heidar Helguson, Akos Buszaky and  Tommy Smith  scored as QPR
gave new manager  Mark Hughes  his first league victory. Hughes
replaced the fired Neil Warnock on Jan. 10.  Helguson scored with a penalty kick in the 33rd minute and
Buzsaky doubled the lead just before halftime. Wigan’s Hugo
Rodallega scored midway through the second half before Latics
goalkeeper Ali Al Habsi stopped another Helguson penalty attempt
in the 72nd minute. Smith then clinched the win with a shot from
about 25 yards out in the 81st minute.  Mark Davies, Nigel Reo-Coker and Gretar Steinsson scored as
Bolton ended a 10-game losing run against Liverpool.  Davies and Reo-Coker gave Bolton a 2-0 lead after 29
minutes before  Craig Bellamy  scored for Liverpool before
halftime. Steinsson then scored in the 50th minute to secure
Bolton’s second home win of the season.  Fulham scored all of its goals in the second half in
beating Newcastle. Dempsey notched his second halt trick of the
season, while Danny Murphy and  Bobby Zamora  scored with penalty
kicks. Danny Guthrie and Hatem Ben Arfa had the Newcastle goals.  Robbie Keane  Keane made his first start for Villa after his loan move
from the Los Angeles Galaxy and netted twice in the second half,
including the game winner with seven minutes left.  Darren Bent 
also scored with a penalty for Villa. Michael Kightly and  David
Edwards  had the Wolves goals, while Karl Henry was red-carded in
73rd minute.  Gramah Dorrans’s goal in stoppage time lifted West Brom
past Stoke. West Brom goalkeeper Ben Foster stopped Jonathan
Walters’s penalty kick in the second half to help in the win.  Goals from Stephane Sessegnon and Craig Gardner carried
Sunderland to its third win in four games. David Goodwillie’s
goal in the 72nd minute gave Blackburn the draw at Everton,
which had Tim Cahill score for the first time since December,
2010.  Norwich posted its first shutout of the season by drawing
with Chelsea at home. Chelsea’s  Fernando Torres , seeking his
first goal since October, was denied by a diving save from John Ruddy in the first half and poked a shot wide from eight yards
out in the second half.  League leader Manchester City hosts third-place Tottenham
and second-place Manchester United visits Arsenal in tomorrow’s
games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 