-- Treasuries Off to Worst Start Since 2003 on Strengthening Global Economy
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-01-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/treasuries-off-to-worst-start-since-2003-on-strengthening-global-economy.html
Treasuries are off to their worst
start in nine years amid signs the  U.S. economy  is strengthening
and Europe is moving closer to resolving its sovereign-debt
crisis.  Yields on benchmark  10-year  notes climbed 16 basis points,
or 0.16 percentage point, the biggest weekly increase since the
five days ended Dec. 23, as reports showed fewer Americans than
forecast filed for  unemployment benefits  and home sales rose for
a third month in December. The refuge appeal of Treasuries eased
as Greek officials held debt-swap talks and European bond sales
saw increased demand. Policy makers are expected by analysts to
say they’ll keep borrowing rates low as the economy gathers
momentum when  Federal Open Market Committee  meets Jan. 24-25.  “The better sentiment out of Europe and the improving
domestic economy is weighing on Treasuries,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a Purchase, New York-based fixed-income strategist for
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. “Still, there is a lot of
uncertainty, and despite the positive signs in the economy we
are still at very low rates because there is so much that is
unresolved.”  U.S. government securities have lost 0.342 percent this
year, the most since a 0.693 percent loss in 2003, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes. The benchmark 10-year
 yield  rose five basis points to 2.02 percent yesterday in  New
York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Treasuries finished 2003 returning 2.25 percent after the
weak start and have posted annual gains every year but one since
2009, when they fell 3.7 percent. U.S. corporate bonds returned
0.5 percent this year and German bunds fell 0.1 percent, the
indexes show.  Widening Spread  Initial jobless  claims  plunged to 352,000 in the week ended
Jan. 14, the lowest level since April 2008, the Labor Department
said on Jan. 19. A Federal Reserve report on Jan. 18 showed
factory output increased.  The difference between two- and 10-year  yields  widened four
basis points to 1.78 percentage points after touching 1.79
percentage points, the most since Dec. 13. The spread was as
narrow as 1.47 percentage points on Oct. 4.  “The lack of blowups in European sovereign debt have
allowed calm to erupt, and that has weighed on Treasuries,”
said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees $12 billion
in fixed income assets. “Home sales are improving, though from
very poor levels, which underlies the improving data we’ve had
of late,”  The Citi Macro Risk Index dropped to a five-month low of
0.601 on Jan. 19, showing increased demand for higher-yielding
assets.  Labor ‘Traction’  “There is some significant traction in the labor market,”
said  Richard Gilhooly , an interest-rate strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities Inc. in New York. “There is
beginning to be some consistency and some acceleration in the
U.S. economic numbers. Once we get through the first quarter,
you should get a big spike in Treasury yields.”  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes rose to the highest
level since January 2011, with purchases increasing 5 percent to
a 4.61 million annual rate, the National Association of Realtors
said yesterday in  Washington . The pace was less than the 4.65
million median forecast of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  Even as core consumer prices are running at almost the
Fed’s ideal of about 2 percent, investors are snapping up
inflation protected debt for insurance against a risk that  price
levels  rebound. The U.S. sold a record $15 billion in 10-year
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities on Jan. 19 at a negative
yield for the first time.  Negative Yield  The TIPS were auctioned at a so-called high yield of
negative 0.046 percent, compared with a forecast of negative
0.027 percent, the average estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of eight of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers that are required to
bid on U.S. debt sales. The last four sales of five-year TIPS
were at negative yields.  Investors should buy Treasuries as the yield approaches
2.05 percent, amid concern that Europe may not be able to solve
its sovereign-debt crisis, said Larry Milstein, managing
director in New York of government- and agency-debt trading at
R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors.  “The U.S. numbers look good,” said Milstein. “I’m  still
not convinced with respect to Europe.”  ‘Grind Higher’  The  World Bank  said this week that the U.S. economy will
expand 2.2 percent in 2012, while the euro area will contract
0.3 percent.  The 10-year yield will advance to 2.58 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  “Weak-but-positive growth should allow rates to grind
higher, barring an increase in European stress,” according to
the report by Royal Bank of Canada analysts including  Michael Cloherty , the head of U.S. rates strategy for RBC Capital
Markets LLC in New York.  Greece ’s government and private creditors convened
yesterday for a third session of talks on how to reduce the
nation’s debt and avert a collapse of the economy.  “The European situation may be dislocating itself some
from the Treasury market,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New
York at Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer broker.
“As the complexion gets better in  Europe  there is less need for
the flight-to-quality to trade. If we didn’t have the European
situation we would be further north of 2 percent on the 10-year
note. We’ve had no new bad news, which has given investors cover
to sell Treasuries.”  Yields indicate investors are becoming more willing to
lend. The three-month  London interbank offered rate  for loans in
dollars was at 0.561 percent on Jan. 19, a second weekly
decline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  