-- Rick Santorum Is Declared Winner of Iowa Caucuses by State Party Leaders
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-21T14:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/rick-santorum-is-declared-winner-of-iowa-caucuses-by-state-party-leaders.html
Presidential candidate  Rick Santorum 
won the Jan. 3  Iowa  caucuses,  Republican Party  leaders in the
state said in an e-mail late yesterday.  “In order to clarify conflicting reports and to affirm the
results released Jan. 18 by the Republican Party of Iowa,
Chairman Matthew Strawn and the state central committee declared
Senator Rick Santorum the winner,” the party said in a
statement not attributed to any single person.  The Republican Party of Iowa had said on Jan. 19 that
Santorum finished the Iowa caucuses 34 votes ahead of  Mitt Romney , who had previously been declared the winner, when it
released certified results more than two weeks after the voting.  Certified totals remain missing for eight precincts, so the
complete totals aren’t known.  Romney, 64, called the result a “virtual tie” in a Jan.
19 statement that cited Santorum’s “strong performance.”
Andrea Saul, a Romney spokeswoman, declined today to add
anything beyond the previous statement.  The former Massachusetts governor and business executive
can no longer claim to have made history by becoming the first
Republican non-incumbent to win both the  Iowa caucuses  and  New
Hampshire  primary since the caucuses became the start of the
presidential nominating process in 1976.  Iowa party officials had named Romney the winner in the
early morning hours on Jan. 4 because he was ahead of Santorum
by eight votes in its initial tabulation from the 1,774
precincts where voting was held in the state’s 99 counties.  The narrow margin of the Iowa results revealed a divided
party, still undecided over whether to compromise fiscal and
social conservative ideology for a candidate -- Romney -- whom
polls show is in a better position to attract independent voters
needed to beat Obama in the general election.  Santorum, 53, a former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania ,
surged in the closing days of the Iowa campaign as social
conservatives who give greater weight to opposition to abortion
and gay marriage rallied around him.  Today’s Primary  In  South Carolina , where the third nomination contest will
be held today, Santorum has talked at events about how he might
have actually won the caucuses.  He’s trying to cut into the
argument, made by Romney’s campaign, that the former governor’s
showings in Iowa and New Hampshire signify he has momentum and
it’s inevitable he’ll secure the nomination.  Before the certification, Romney expressed little concern
about the outcome.  “I’m not sure that changes much,” he said Jan. 17, when
asked about the possibility that the Iowa results might change.  The totals won’t directly affect the delegate count for the
nomination because Iowa will award its delegates to the national
party convention later this year, after a state convention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Tampa at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  