-- Djokovic, Sharapova Have Their Best Grand Slam Starts; Murray, Hewitt Win
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-21T14:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/sharapova-kvitova-reach-fourth-round-of-australian-open-in-melbourne.html
Former winners Novak Djokovic and
 Maria Sharapova  advanced to the Australian Open’s fourth round,
losing five games between them to complete career-best starts in
the first week of a tennis Grand Slam.  Men’s top seed Djokovic, who won 10 titles last year
including three of the four majors, routed 81st-ranked Nicolas Mahut of France 6-0, 6-1, 6-1 yesterday after women’s No. 4
Sharapova beat unseeded German Angelique Kerber 6-1, 6-2.  Djokovic is trying to become the fifth man to win three
straight Grand Slam titles since tennis’s Open era began in
1968. The Serb, who won his second title at Melbourne Park last
year, has dropped 10 games for his best start through his
opening three matches in 29 appearances at the majors.  “The conditions are great,” Djokovic, who will next face
former finalist  Lleyton Hewitt  of  Australia , said in a news
conference. “They’re very suitable to my style of the game, day
and night. I’m really looking forward to next week.”  Sharapova, who won the title in Melbourne four years ago,
is also off to an unprecedented start in her 35th Grand Slam
appearance after losing just five games in the opening week.  Sharapova is playing in her first event of 2012. She
arrived in Melbourne nearly two weeks early after skipping the
Brisbane International to rest an ankle injury.  Aggressive Approach  “Coming in here without any matches, I didn’t know what to
expect,” said Sharapova, who next faces 14th-seeded German
Sabine Lisicki. “But from the first point in the first round
I’ve been really aggressive and it has been working for me.”  Five-time women’s champion  Serena Williams  of the U.S.
swept past Hungarian Greta Arn 6-1, 6-1 in 59 minutes last
night, while fourth-seeded  Andy Murray  of Britain, the runner-up
the past two years, beat Michael Llodra of France 6-4, 6-2, 6-0.  Hewitt, a former world No. 1, completed the day six program
by battling past No. 23 seed Milos Raonic of Canada 4-6, 6-3, 7-
6 (7-5), 6-3 on Rod Laver Arena. Hewitt is the first wild-card
entry to reach the round of 16 since Mats Wilander in 1994.  Bernard Tomic , the other Australian through to the fourth
round, takes on four-time champion  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland 
today, when men’s No. 2 Rafael Nadal faces fellow Spaniard
 Feliciano Lopez  and Kim Clijsters playsLi Na of  China  in a
rematch of the 2011 women’s final, which the Belgian won.  Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova, the No. 2 seed from the
Czech Republic, was leading Maria Kirilenko 6-0, 1-0 in the
opening match at Rod Laver Arena when the 27th-seeded Russian
quit with a thigh injury. It was the third retirement in as many
days on center court after  Andy Roddick  of the U.S. and Anabel Medina Garrigues of  Spain . Kvitova will next play Ana Ivanovic,
the No. 21 seed from  Serbia .  Seeds Go Out  Two top-10 women’s seeds were eliminated yesterday as No. 7
Vera Zvonareva lost in straight sets to fellow Russian Ekaterina Makarova, while No. 9 Marion Bartoli of  France  was beaten 6-3,
6-3 by China’s Zheng Jie, who reached the semifinals at
Melbourne Park in 2010.  Zheng, who next faces unseeded Italian Sara Errani, tuned
up for the Australian Open by winning her first WTA title in
more than five years in Auckland.  Men’s No. 6 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, who reached the final four
years ago, defeated unseeded Portuguese Frederico Gil 6-2, 6-2,
6-2. His next opponent will be 24th-seeded Kei Nishikori, who
fought back to beat Julien Benneteau of France 4-6, 7-6 (7-3),
7-6 (7-4), 6-3 and become the first Japanese man to reach
tournament’s round of 16 in the Open era.  ‘Excited’  “I’m excited to get through here,” Nishikori told
reporters. “That’s my best result right now in Grand Slam.”  Mikhail Kukushkin also secured a first for Kazakhstan,
becoming the first man from the nation to reach the round of 16
at a major by upsetting 14th-seeded Frenchman Gael Monfils in a
five-set match. He’ll play Murray next.  Richard Gasquet, the No. 17 from France, upset ninth-seeded
Serb Janko Tipsarevic in straight sets to reach the fourth round
for the first time in four years. He’ll play No. 5 David Ferrer
of Spain for a place in the quarterfinals.  For the first time since 1973, the last 16 of the
Australian Open will be without a U.S. man after John Isner’s
five-set loss to Feliciano Lopez of Spain two days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at  Melbourne  Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  