-- Snowfall in New York City Area Amounts to 6 Inches; Boston to Get 3 Inches
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-01-21T20:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/snowfall-in-new-york-city-may-total-up-to-6-inches-ending-this-afternoon.html
The  New York City  metropolitan
region got as much as 6 inches of snow today as the first
snowstorm of the winter tracked up the U.S. East Coast.  The  National Weather Service  said as much as 4.3 inches (12
centimeters) of snow fell in Central Park. Northwest of New York
City, in the town of Greenville in Orange County, 6 inches had
fallen, while 6.3 inches were on the ground at Orient in Suffolk
County.  “This is sort of what you expect in January,” said Dan
Pydynowski, a meteorologist for AccuWeather.com Inc. in State
College, Pennsylvania, in a telephone interview. “It has been a
bit more cold recently and we finally got some precipitation.”  The last time more than an inch of snow fell this late in
January was on Jan. 30, 2007, when 1 inch came down in  New York ,
Pydynowski said. Philadelphia received its first inch or more of
snow from that same storm, he said.  He said Boston was to get about 3 inches of snow today.
Temperatures in New York hovered around 26 degrees Fahrenheit
(-3 Celsius) this afternoon, while in Boston it was 21 degrees.  In  New Jersey , 7 inches of snow was reported in the town of
West Milford, while 6.5 inches fell in Oakland in Bergen County,
the weather service said. More than 8 inches was tallied in
Hamden,  Connecticut .  Midwest, Northwest  Philadelphia recorded 2.5 inches of snow, while less than
an inch fell in Washington.  About 350 flights were canceled at the three New York-area
airports, with another 325 suspended at the Philadelphia,
Washington-area and  Boston  airports, according to
 Flightaware.com .  Yesterday, the same storm system blanketed parts of the
Midwest and caused hundreds of flights to be canceled in cities
stretching from  Chicago  eastward.  Joliet, Illinois, recorded 9.1 inches from the storm, while
9 inches came down in Dyer, Indiana, in Lake County. The Chicago
suburb of Homewood had 8.6 inches of snow, according to the
National Weather Service.  Seven inches of snow was recorded in Asbury, Iowa, in
Dubuque County as well as Bellevue, Iowa, in Jackson County.  In the U.S. Northwest, about 194,700 homes and businesses
in Washington state remained without power today after heavy
snows and ice there, as well as in Oregon and Montana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in  Washington  at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net . 