-- Swedish Social Democrat Leader Juholt Resigns Amid Slump
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-01-21T15:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/swedish-social-democrat-leader-juholt-resigns-amid-slump-1-.html
Swedish Social Democratic leader
Hakan Juholt resigned 10 months into the job as support tumbled
after he had to repay a housing allowance and sparked internal
party criticism for not raising  unemployment benefits  in a
shadow budget.  “I have made mistakes as party chairman,” he said today
at a televised press conference in his hometown of Oskarshamn.
“I don’t want to stand in the way for the fresh start that the
 Social Democrats  and Sweden need.”  Juholt faced a wave of criticism inside and outside his
party after he admitted in October that he erroneously claimed a
full housing allowance to keep an apartment in  Stockholm  in
addition to his home in Oskarshamn, when he was only entitled to
half because he shares the flat with his partner. Juholt agreed
to repay 160,000 kronor ($23,600) to parliament.  The Social Democrats, which governed  Sweden  for much of the
20th Century, elected Juholt as new party leader in March,
replacing Mona Sahlin whose three-party opposition coalition
failed to defeat the government of Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  in 2010’s parliamentary election.  Party Secretary Carin Jaemtin said at a televised press
conference in Stockholm that Social Democrat’s executive
committee would start work on finding a replacement in what was
an “unprecedented” situation and a “crisis” for the group.  Support for the Social Democrats, which for decades was
Sweden’s biggest party, fell to 25.4 percent last month in a
Sifo survey of voters, while support for the Reinfeldt-led
Moderates grew to 34.4 percent.  Juholtare  Swedish newspapers were full with lists chronicling
Juholt’s missteps, including failing to get the rest of the
party on board when he released a shadow budget that didn’t
include more money for unemployment programs. A “Juholtare,”
or making a hasty statement that is later retracted, became a
new Swedish word last year, according to an annual list by the
Language Council of Sweden.  Juholt did not immediately identify his successor. Sweden
holds an election in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander at 
 Okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  