-- Hungarians Rally in Support of Orban Government
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-22T12:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/hungarians-rally-in-support-of-orban-government.html
Tens of thousands of Hungarians
joined a protest to support Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  as the
European Union pressed the country’s government to change
laws that have blocked talks on an international bailout.  Demonstrators marched through the center of Budapest to
parliament yesterday in an event organized by a group including
Zsolt Bayer, a journalist with  Magyar Hirlap  newspaper and a
founding member of Orban’s Fidesz party. The Interior Ministry
said almost 400,000 people attended, while news website Index
estimated the turnout at more than 100,000.  “We say yes to  Europe  but no to what Europe is doing to
Hungary and the Hungarian government,” Bayer said in a video
message posted on the Internet before the rally. Organizers
marching at the front of the crowd carried a banner saying “We
won’t become a colony,” a slogan Bayer repeated outside
 Hungary ’s neo-gothic parliament.  Orban is trying to revive bailout negotiations with the
bloc and the  International Monetary Fund  after discussions broke
down in December over his refusal to change laws that both
institutions said may weaken monetary-policy independence. Orban
offered to change disputed legislation after the EU threatened a
lawsuit against Hungary for encroaching on the central bank’s
independence and political meddling with the judiciary and the
data-protection authority.  The demonstration was the largest mass event of its kind
since the collapse of communism more than 20 years ago, news
website  Nol.hu  said.  ‘Good Atmosphere’  “Such a big crowd hasn’t demonstrated in favor of the
government and its policies in living memory,” the Interior
Ministry said in an e-mailed statement yesterday, adding that
the event was “peaceful” and had a “good atmosphere.”  Hungary has become a test case for the European Commission,
which has pledged to use its powers to enforce the 27-nation
bloc’s norms. Orban faced several hours of criticism from
lawmakers at the European Parliament in the past week.  Yesterday’s pro-government rally will help support
Hungarian members of the European Parliament in their defense of
the country against “offensive and groundless” accusations,
MEPs from Orban’s party said in a statement today.  Orban gained a two-thirds parliamentary majority in the
2010 election, which he used to pass a new constitution as the
culmination of his so-called ballot-box revolution.  Orban’s governing party, Fidesz, lost support this month as
the number of undecided voters swelled, polling agency Szonda
Ipsos said on Jan. 13.  Fidesz Falls  Backing for Fidesz among eligible voters fell to 16 percent
from 18 percent in December, reaching the lowest since records
started in 1998, the Budapest-based pollster Szonda Ipsos said.  The Socialist Party’s support was unchanged at 11 percent,
compared with a 1 percentage point decline to 9 percent for the
radical nationalist Jobbik, it said. The number of undecided
voters rose to 57 percent from 54 percent. Among committed
voters, Fidesz polled 39 percent, the Socialists improved to 26
percent from 24 percent and Jobbik weakened to 22 percent from
24 percent.  “Those who are dissatisfied are in the majority in
Hungary, not those backing the government,” Attila Mesterhazy,
president of the Socialist Party, wrote in an e-mailed statement
today. “Even if the government mobilizes tens of thousands of
people, it only shows it’s afraid.”  The Jan. 3-10 poll of 1,500 Hungarians had a 2.5 percentage
point margin of error. The next general election is scheduled
for 2014.  A demonstration on Jan. 2 against Orban’s new constitution
also attracted tens of thousands of participants.  Supporters of opposition station Klubradio, which will have
its frequency taken away according to a decision last month by
Hungary’s media watchdog, planned a rally for today to defend
the right to free speech, according to the radio’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  