-- Corn Prices Rise Worldwide Due to U.S. Ethanol Policy, FAO Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/use-of-corn-for-fuel-in-u-s-is-increasing-prices-globally-fao-chief-says.html
The use of corn to make ethanol in
the U.S. is helping to lift the grain price worldwide, said Jose
Graziano da Silva, the new director general of the  United
Nations ’ Food and Agriculture Organization.  “FAO has been raising its voice against using food to
produce bio energy,” Graziano da Silva told 64 agriculture
ministers in Berlin yesterday. That’s “especially” the case
for corn in the U.S. and oilseeds in  Europe , he said.  Corn futures closed at $6.115 a bushel on the Chicago Board
of Trade on Jan. 20, almost triple the $2.1175 a bushel for the
grain a decade ago. Part of the U.S. corn production is used to
make ethanol for blending into gasoline as a fuel while rapeseed
is used in Europe to make biodiesel.  “We have been looking into the details of the price, and
nowadays there is no doubt that the use of maize in the U.S. for
biofuels affects the prices of maize all over the world,”
Graziano da Silva said, using another name for corn.  Ethanol production from sugar cane in  Brazil  accounts for 3
percent of  land use  and for now doesn’t affect the price of
sugar in international markets, according to the FAO director
general, who is Brazilian and nominated FAO head as of Jan. 1.  Biofuel production doesn’t necessarily affect food
security, particularly when land used for extensive livestock
raising is converted to crop use, Graziano da Silva said.  “We finished a study among the Latin American countries
and we found only four countries in the region that could expand
biofuel production without affecting food security,” Graziano
da Silva said. “Those are  Argentina , Brazil,  Paraguay  and
Colombia. All of them, they have a huge amount of area under
extensive pasture that could be converted into very good lands
for biofuel use.”  Biofuels are “a promise,” and technology improvements are
still required to “completely change” that, according to
Graziano da Silva.  “ Food security  comes first, that is the rule,” the FAO
head said. “The position we have right now in FAO is that
cereals should not be used for biofuels production.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  