-- Egypt Muslim Brotherhood Bloc Wins Most Seats
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2012-01-21T18:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/muslim-brotherhood-party-says-it-won-47-of-seats.html
The Muslim Brotherhood’s party
alliance emerged as the largest group in  Egypt ’s new parliament,
two days before the assembly’s first meeting following the
ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  almost a year ago.  The alliance led by the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice
Party won 235 of the 498 elected seats in the lower house, party
spokesman Ahmed Sobea said today by phone. The head of the
ruling military council, Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi,
assigned 10 non-elected members to the parliament, Al Jazeera
television reported.  The new parliament, due to hold its first session on Jan.
23, “is the best celebration of the Egyptian revolution,”
Freedom and Justice said in a statement.  Of the 332 members of parliament elected from party lists,
Freedom and Justice won 127, Election Commission head Abdel Moez
Ibrahim told reporters in Cairo today. The more conservative
Salafi Muslim bloc led by the Nour party took 96 seats, while
two secular groups placed third and fourth, with the Wafd party
obtaining 36 seats and the Egyptian Bloc getting 33 seats, he
said.  The assembly is supposed to select a committee that will
write a new constitution, though the exact powers of parliament
remain unclear. Seven weeks of elections have failed to allay
tensions between the activists who ousted Mubarak and the
military council that took power from the former president.
Protesters are calling for mass rallies on Jan. 25, the
anniversary of the start of the uprising against Mubarak, to
demand the generals transfer power to civilians.  Military Power  “The military is still the most anti-democratic force in
Egyptian politics and the challenge for the Brotherhood and the
other parties in parliament is how best to manage the
military,”  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the Brookings
Doha Center in Qatar, said by phone today. “The goal now is to
ease them out of power. Everyone agrees on that goal, but
there’s divergence on how best to do that.”  The military council will release 1,959 prisoners convicted
by military courts after the Jan. 25 uprising, the Middle East
News Agency reported, citing the head of the military judicial
committee, Brigadier General Adel el-Mursi. Among those to be
released are Maikel Nabil, an internet blogger, state-run Mena
said.  The council said it would cede power when a president is
elected in a national vote by the end of June. In comments
published by the state-run Middle East  News Agency  on Jan. 17,
Tantawi said Egypt is facing “grave and unprecedented dangers”
and urged Egyptians to be vigilant to thwart “plots and
conspiracies” being woven for their country.  Islam’s Role  “The bottom line is that this is the first freely elected
parliament in modern Egyptian history,” Hamid said. “Egypt is
different than many of its neighbors in the region in that Egypt
is more conservative and that Egyptians are more open to Islam
playing a larger role in society.”  The unrest of the past year has curbed tourist arrivals and
foreign investment and lowered economic growth to 1.8 percent in
the fiscal year through June, the slowest pace in at least a
decade. Tourist arrivals fell 33 percent last year, while
international reserves are at the lowest level since March 2005.  Egypt formally requested a $3.2 billion loan from the
 International Monetary Fund  on Jan. 16 to help it support the
economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  