-- Muslim Brotherhood Takes 47% of Seats in Inaugural Post-Mubarak Parliament
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2012-01-21T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/muslim-brotherhood-takes-47-of-seats-in-inaugural-post-mubarak-parliament.html
Islamists will dominate Egypt’s
first parliament following the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  almost a
year ago as the country prepares for the anniversary of the
protests that ended his three-decade rule.  The alliance led by the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and
Justice Party won 235 of the 498 elected seats, or 47 percent,
in the lower house, party spokesman Ahmed Sobea said yesterday
by phone. The party nominated its secretary-general, Mohamed
Saad El-Katatni, as the speaker of parliament.  While the assembly, due to hold its first session tomorrow,
is supposed to select a committee that will write a new
constitution, its exact powers remain unclear. Seven weeks of
elections have failed to allay tensions between the activists
who ousted Mubarak and the military council that took power from
him. Protesters are calling for mass rallies on Jan. 25, the
anniversary of the start of the uprising against Mubarak, to
demand the generals transfer power to civilians.  “Political and economic reforms are the main challenges
facing us,” Sobhi Saleh, who won a parliamentary seat for the
Freedom and Justice Party, said in a telephone interview.
“We’re moving from a phase of a revolution to having a state.
Building a state is a difficult challenge.”  The head of the ruling military council, Field Marshal
Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, assigned 10 non-elected members to the
parliament, Al Jazeera television reported.  Prisoner Release  The military council will release 1,959 prisoners convicted
by military courts after the Jan. 25 uprising, the state-run
Middle East  News Agency  reported yesterday, citing the head of
the military judicial committee, Major General Adel el-Mursi.
Among those to be freed are Maikel Nabil, an internet blogger,
Mena said.  Putting an end to the trial of civilians in military courts
is a main demand of protesters.  Of the 332 members of parliament elected from party lists,
Freedom and Justice won 127, Elections Commission head Abdel
Moez Ibrahim told reporters yesterday in Cairo. The more
conservative Salafi Muslim bloc led by the Nour party took 96
seats, while two secular groups placed third and fourth, with
the Wafd party obtaining 36 seats and the Egyptian Bloc getting
33 seats, he said.  While it is premature to discuss alliances in parliament,
Saleh said, “we are open to everyone and are ready to deal with
everyone.”  The military council said it would cede power when a
president is elected in a national vote by the end of June. In
comments published by Mena on Jan. 17, Tantawi said  Egypt  is
facing “grave and unprecedented dangers” and urged Egyptians
to be vigilant to thwart “plots and conspiracies” being woven
for their country.  Military Power  “The military is still the most anti-democratic force in
Egyptian politics, and the challenge for the Brotherhood and the
other parties in parliament is how best to manage the
military,”  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the Brookings
Doha Center in Qatar, said by phone yesterday. “The goal now is
to ease them out of power. Everyone agrees on that goal, but
there’s divergence on how best to do that.”  The unrest of the past year has curbed tourist arrivals and
foreign investment and lowered economic growth to 1.8 percent in
the fiscal year through June, the slowest pace in at least a
decade. Tourist arrivals fell 33 percent last year, while
international reserves are at the lowest level since March 2005.  Egypt formally requested a $3.2 billion loan from the
 International Monetary Fund  on Jan. 16 to help it support the
economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  