-- Vietnam’s U.S. Arms Wishlist Hinges on Human Rights, McCain Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-01-21T14:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/vietnam-s-u-s-arms-wishlist-hinges-on-human-rights-mccain-says.html
Vietnam’s request for a “long
laundry list” of U.S. weaponry including anti-aircraft systems
will be denied until it makes progress on human rights,
according to Senators  Joseph Lieberman  and  John McCain .  “There are certain weapons systems that the Vietnamese
would like to buy from us or receive from us, and we’d like to
be able to transfer those systems to them,” Lieberman told
reporters in Bangkok today. “But it’s not going to happen
unless they improve their human rights record.”  Removing a U.S.  ban on the sale  of lethal weapons to
Vietnam under a 1984 arms embargo would boost military links
between the former adversaries amid escalating spats with  China 
in the South China Sea. Vietnam said last year it’s weighing
whether to host a U.S. Navy medical center.  A rising China “is certainly on the minds of the leaders
in the  Philippines  and Vietnam,” Lieberman said. “America has
a concern about the Chinese claims regarding the South China
Sea, particularly with regards to freedom of navigation.”  Last year, Vietnam convicted 33 bloggers and rights
activists of crimes for expressing political and religious
beliefs, New York-based Human Rights Watch said on Jan. 11.
Authorities arrested at least 27 other activists and held two in
detention for more than a year without trial, it said.  Vietnam “had a long laundry list” of defense items it
desired, McCain said, adding that it included anti-aircraft
systems and radar. “We didn’t get into specifics because we
made it clear there would have to be progress.”  Senators Sheldon Whitehouse and  Kelly Ayotte  are joining
McCain and Lieberman on a trip to  Southeast Asia  this week that
includes visits to the Philippines, Vietnam, Thailand and
Myanmar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  