-- Wisconsin High Court Judge Won’t Step Back From Union Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 2012-01-21T00:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-21/wisconsin-high-court-judge-won-t-avoid-union-case-as-prosecutor-requested.html
Wisconsin Supreme Court Justice
Michael J. Gableman rejected a state prosecutor’s request he
recuse himself from a lawsuit challenging legislation that
curbed public employees’ collective bargaining rights.  “I have determined that recusal is neither justified, nor
warranted,” Gableman said today in a three-page ruling citing
prior case law and a report by  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  Chief Justice
John G. Roberts.  A justice “cannot withdraw from a case as a matter of
convenience or simply to avoid controversy,” Roberts wrote in
his year-end 2011 report on the judiciary, Gableman said.  In a high court filing last month, Dane County  District
Attorney  Ismael Ozanne said Gableman should have stepped down
from the case and that its 4-3 June decision to uphold the law
should be rescinded because the judge had been a client of a  law
firm  assisting state officials in the case.  The Milwaukee firm, Michael Best & Friedrich LLP,
previously represented Gableman in an ethics matter without
being paid to do so.  Gableman didn’t address the nature of his relationship with
the Michael Best firm, which has offices in the state’s capital
city of Madison and in Chicago.  Ozanne, a Democrat whose county includes Madison, opposed
the collective bargaining law signed by Republican Governor
 Scott Walker  last year. The prosecutor sought to overturn it by
challenging the legality of legislative proceedings that
produced it.  The district attorney couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment today on Gableman’s decision. Walker’s press secretary,
Cullen Werwie, also couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  The case is Ozanne v. Fitzgerald, 2011AP613-LV, Wisconsin
Supreme Court (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  