-- 
‘Cowboys’ Opens at No. 1 With $36.4 Million in Ticket Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-08-02T01:43:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/-cowboys-and-smurfs-battle-to-tie-for-weekend-s-no-1-film.html
“Cowboys & Aliens,” featuring
Daniel Craig as an Old West gunman who battles space invaders,
emerged as the top movie in the U.S. and  Canada  this weekend,
with $36.4 million in ticket sales for  Universal Pictures .  The film edged out “The Smurfs,” which generated a
revised $35.6 million for  Sony Corp. (6758) , Hollywood.com Box-Office
said today in a statement.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s “Crazy, Stupid,
Love” with  Steve Carell  collected $19 million to open in fifth.  “Cowboys & Aliens” is the third film from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
Universal to open in first place this year, following “Fast
Five” and “Hop.” The movie, co-produced by Steven Spielberg’s
DreamWorks SKG and Relativity Media LLC, was expected to
generate sales of $40 million, the estimate of
Boxofficeguru.com.  The sci-fi Western battled “reviews that were certainly
mixed at best,” Gitesh Pandya, chief executive officer of
Boxofficeguru.com, said in an interview. “For an older, male-
skewing film like ‘Cowboys,’ reviews matter.”  In the film, Craig’s character, Jake Lonergan, leads a
posse of ranchers and outlaws in a fight against aliens who
attacked their town and abducted several residents. They are
aided in the fight by a highly advanced weapon shackled to
Lonergan’s wrist.  Harrison Ford  and  Olivia Wilde  co-star.  Combining live action and computer-generated effects, “The
Smurfs” stars Neil Patrick Harris as a  New Yorker  who helps the
tiny, blue creatures after they are forced from their village by
an evil wizard. The picture is based on characters from the late
cartoonist Pierre Culliford.  Smart Marketing  Pandya credits the film’s opening success to effective
promotion by the studio. “They did a lot of out-of-the-box
marketing to make it a summer event film for kids,” he said.
The movie also “has a retro-chic appeal to it.”  Last weekend’s leader, “Captain America: The First
Avenger,” slipped to third place with sales of $25.6 million
for  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Paramount Pictures.  “ Harry Potter  and the Deathly Hallows, Part 2,” the final
installment in the films based on J.K. Rowling’s novels about a
boy wizard, was fourth with sales of $22 million.  The latest “Harry Potter” movie, the eighth in the
series, has taken in more than $1 billion in global ticket sales
and is the top-grossing film in the history of Time Warner’s
 Warner Bros ., according to a statement.  In Warner Bros.’ “Crazy, Stupid, Love,” Carell plays a
strait-laced family man whose life unravels after he discovers
that his wife has cheated on him. A younger man, played by Ryan Gosling, guides him through a world of singles bars and flirting
women.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 26 percent to
$170.8 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic
box-office sales this year have declined 5.6 percent to $6.42
billion, while attendance is down 6.5 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for July
29-31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
 Janet Lorin  in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  