-- 
‘Dire’ Finances Force R.I. City Into Bankruptcy

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-01T19:42:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/-dire-situation-forces-rhode-island-city-of-central-falls-into-bankruptcy.html
Central Falls,  Rhode Island ’s poorest
city, sought Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection as it struggles to
meet pension obligations.  A petition was filed today after state officials failed to
persuade police, fire and municipal employee unions to accept
concessions and to get retirees to agree to lower benefits,
according to a statement from Robert Flanders, a former state
 Supreme Court  justice named to oversee the city’s finances. The
city asked the court to permit the rejection of union contracts.  “The current situation is dire, and necessitates decisive
steps to put the city back on a path to solid financial footing
and future prosperity,” Governor Lincoln Chafee, an independent
who joined Flanders in announcing the move today, said in the
statement.  Central Falls , a city of about 18,000 located about 6 miles
(9.7 kilometers) north of Providence, is the fifth municipality
to enter bankruptcy this year, compared with six in all of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The filing followed
last week’s move by lawmakers in Jefferson County,  Alabama , to
postpone a vote on proceeding with what would be the biggest
U.S. municipal bankruptcy.  Out of Assets  The Central Falls pension plan was expected to run out of
assets by October without additional funding or significant
concessions from both current employees and retirees, according
to a June 17 report from Moody’s Investors Service. The rating
company at the time lowered the city’s credit mark one level to
Caa1, fifth lowest, from B3. Both are below investment grade.  The city had “no option” except seeking Chapter 9
protection after service cuts and the unsuccessful effort to
curb labor and retiree costs, it said in court papers. A
“substantial majority” of city spending is tied to employment,
and because of pending salary increases called for under
contracts, those costs are set to rise, according to court
documents.  “The city’s financial condition has deteriorated to the
point where it is insolvent,” Flanders said in the court
filing. “The overwhelming pension obligations and the slowing
economy, among other factors, have significantly decreased
revenues while the city’s operational costs have increased.”  Structural Deficit  Central Falls has a structural deficit of about $5 million
on an annual budget of about $16.4 million, according to court
papers. By Aug. 31, the city won’t have enough revenue to pay
its bills, the filing said.  The city’s financial difficulties “are much bigger” than
the cost of labor and benefits, Marc Gursky, a lawyer for the
firefighters union, said in a telephone interview. The city
should be negotiating with workers, bondholders and the state to
come up with a solution, he said.  “Firefighters or police or a handful of workers at  City
Hall  aren’t going to be able to solve the city’s problems,”
Gursky said.  Flanders, 62, a partner at Hinckley Allen Snyder LLP in
Providence who was appointed state receiver by Chafee, said he
will submit a reorganization and recovery plan to the court in
the next 30 days. The lawyer, who retired from the state’s high
court in 2004, had sought to cut half the benefits of retirees
to save $2.5 million this year. He also planned to find another
$2.5 million of government savings to balance the city’s budget.  ‘Hopeful Day’  “This is actually a hopeful day for the city because
finally they can move forward to get to a place where they can
exist as a standalone city or merge or consolidate with one of
their neighbors without these crushing debt burdens,” Flanders
said in a telephone interview.  Last week, 141 retirees failed to meet a deadline to vote
on the concessions sought by Flanders. Central Falls has $80
million in unfunded liabilities for pensions and retiree
benefits, Flanders said. He said the city retirement plan has
just $5 million in assets.  The city also has about $21 million of debt outstanding,
New York-based Moody’s said. The city’s per-capita income is 50
percent of the Rhode Island average, according to the company.  The bankruptcy isn’t expected “to hinder the state’s
ability to access the bond markets in the coming months,”  Gina Raimondo, the state treasurer, said in a statement.  Frank Bailey, a  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  judge in  Boston , will
oversee the case, according to a court filing.  The case is In re City of Central Falls, 11-13105, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Rhode Island (Providence).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 