-- 
‘Embarrassed’ CEOs Silent on U.S. Debt Debate Driven by Republican Demands

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-08-01T23:05:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/-embarrassed-ceos-silent-on-debt-debate-driven-by-republicans.html
With the U.S. government on the verge
of a historic default, the country’s largest business lobbying
group took to the halls of Congress last week to press lawmakers
to support the Panama Free-Trade Agreement.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce sponsored a “door knock,”
with 80 members handing out Panama hats to tout a trade deal
with a nation that has a smaller economy than Akron, Ohio. To
critics, the Chamber event illustrates what has been a deafening
silence from U.S. executive suites on the gridlock in Washington
over raising the federal $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  “They haven’t done nearly enough to sound the alarm,”
said  Jim Kessler , vice president for policy at Third Way, a
Washington research group that describes itself as advocating
“moderate policy” and has executives from  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  on its board. Executives “think this
is all Washington theater, and it will all get done in the
end.”  The Chamber, which last week began to issue almost daily
pleas for the debt ceiling to be raised, today urged lawmakers
to approve the package worked out by President Barack Obama and
congressional leaders and passed by the House. The Senate may
vote as early as tomorrow. In the months before the weekend
compromise, company lobbyists and executives had mostly steered
clear of the fight.  ‘Wishy-Washy’  At a closed-door meeting with Chamber lobbyist Bruce Josten
last month, Democratic Senators Mark Begich of Alaska and Mark Warner of  Virginia   upbraided  the group and its member companies
for not twisting arms hard enough to get a compromise package
worked out, according to two people familiar with the discussion
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the meeting was
private.  Begich contrasted the lobbying, television advertisements
and political giving the Chamber invested fighting off health-
care legislation in 2009 and 2010 with its “wishy-washy”
approach on the debt ceiling.  “I’m amazed,” Begich said in an interview July 27. “They
spent millions saying that health care would be the end of all
business in America, but the end of all business in America is
in five days from now.”  On the debt debate, corporations have kept their lobbying
money on the sidelines. Of the 10 companies with the largest
lobbying expenditures in 2011, two said they were lobbying on
the debt ceiling during the first six months of this year,
according to disclosure forms filed with the Senate: insurer
Blue Cross/Blue Shield, the third-largest lobbyist, and
drugmaker Pfizer Inc., the ninth-largest.  Buffett, Cote  None of the other companies mentioned the issue. Together
those 10 spent more than $90 million on lobbying from January
through June, according to data compiled by the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington research group.  With notable exceptions such as  Warren Buffett , the
billionaire chairman and chief executive officer of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc ., and  David Cote , chairman and chief executive of
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , CEOs generally have shied away
from speaking out individually on the issue.  “It’s unfortunate that the business interests have not
stepped forward as loudly as they should have,” Bill Daley, the
White House chief of staff, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television July 26. “You’ve had a silence from the business
community to the political establishment over the last number of
years that’s been unfortunate.”  ‘Embarrassed’ by Republicans  Warren Bennis, a professor of business at the University of
Southern California who has written about corporate leadership
for four decades, says CEOs may have been silenced by positions
advocated by some Republicans, such as Tea Party enthusiasts who
support an increase in the debt limit only if it’s accompanied
by greater spending cuts than the increase and doesn’t raise
taxes.  “They’re caught,” Bennis said in an interview July 29.
“They tend to be Republican and they are embarrassed by what
they see from Republicans,” Bennis said. “It’s a real
stalemate and CEOs want to stay clear of it.”  After negotiations between Republicans and Obama broke
down, chief executives of companies such as  General Electric
Co. (GE) ,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  started to push harder
for a breakthrough last week, mainly by signing group letters
sent to Congress and the administration.  Goldman Sachs Chairman and CEO  Lloyd Blankfein  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  chief  Jamie Dimon  were among 14 financial executives
who signed a July 28 letter by the Financial Services Forum, a
Washington trade group that represents the largest banks.  115 Associations  On July 27, the Business Roundtable sent House lawmakers a
 letter  supporting a bill pushed by Republican Speaker  John Boehner  that would cut $915 billion in spending over 10 years in
exchange for a two-step process of raising the debt ceiling and
considering a balanced-budget amendment. Today, the group
representing CEOs backed the compromise package as well.  Some 115 associations, but no individuals, were listed as
signees. The Washington-based Roundtable says on its website
that it was “founded on the belief that businesses should play
an active role in the formation of public policy.”  The Boehner bill passed the House on July 29, only to fail
in the Democrat-controlled Senate later the same evening. After
weekend negotiations, Obama said last night that leaders of both
parities in the House and Senate reached an agreement to raise
the debt ceiling and cut the deficit.  “We have a great deal of hard work ahead of us to restore
our economy and put our nation’s finances on a sounder
footing,” U.S. Chamber President  Thomas Donohue  said today in a
statement. “This agreement takes us a step in the right
direction and is the right thing to do.”  ‘Shaking Their Heads’  Some corporate leaders interviewed by Bloomberg reporters
before the weekend talks that produced the compromise said
lawmakers should just agree to raise the limit and move on.  “When I talked to my colleagues, they’re all shaking their
heads basically in dismay,” Albert Stroucken, CEO of Owens
Illinois Inc., the world’s largest producer of glass bottles,
said in an interview.  “I am surprised we’ve gotten this deep and it’s
unresolved,”  Rockwell Automation Inc. (ROK)  Chief Financial Officer
Ted Crandall said in an interview as negotiations intensified
last week. He declined to say which plan under debate the
company may prefer.  Walter Robb, co-CEO of Whole Foods Market Inc., also
lamented that “the atmosphere is so hyper-partisan” in
Washington. He hasn’t spoken out publicly on the debt issue
himself, he said in an interview, because “we’re grocers and
we’re really just concentrated on growing the business.”  No Interest  At  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , CEO Scott Davis and Chief
Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn wouldn’t discuss which debt
reduction approach they might prefer, said  Norman Black , a
spokesman for the world’s biggest package-delivery company.  “Neither Scott nor Kurt have any interest at this point in
addressing specific plans, nor have they tried to study all the
specifics of some of the proposals that are out there.” Black
said in an interview. Executives at 18 other companies contacted
by Bloomberg declined to comment or didn’t return phone calls
and e-mails seeking comment.  Berkshire Hathaway’s Buffett, one of the CEOs quoted most
often on the debt issue, spoke out on the matter as early as
last April, saying at the company’s annual shareholder meeting
that it was “most asinine” for lawmakers to consider not
raising the debt limit.  ‘Gun To Head’  “If you don’t get a deal you are putting a gun to your
head,” Buffett said in a Bloomberg Television interview July 8.
“Nothing may happen, but we don’t have a parallel with it in
the past.”  Cote, Honeywell’s CEO, served on Obama’s debt commission
and has called for reducing the deficit through tax increases as
well as spending cuts in interviews on NBC’s “Meet the Press,”
Bloomberg Television and other programs and in op-ed articles.  “For a bunch of people down there who spend all their time
talking about job creation, they’re actively on a path to job
destruction right now,” Cote said in an interview with
Bloomberg News on July 28.  The Chamber of Commerce says it has been pushing in a
series of letters this year for Congress to agree to raise the
cap. Chamber President Thomas Donohue in April warned that the
debt ceiling was a bigger risk to the economy than a possible
government shutdown, and vowed to press lawmakers to act.  Knock on Doors  What the group hasn’t done is mobilize local members to
knock on doors in the Capitol, the kind of retail-level pressure
for which it is famous in Washington.  “It is almost impossible to do things like that when there
is no proposal to rally behind or oppose,” Blair Latoff, a
spokeswoman for the Chamber, said in an e-mail. Comparing the
debt ceiling to the lobbying on the trade deals with  Panama ,
South Korea and Colombia is comparing “apples and oranges,”
she said.  There is still “the expectation by the business community
that Washington is going to figure this out,” said Ron Bonjean,
a lobbyist who was an aide to Dennis Hastert when he was House
speaker.  Unlike the lobbying frenzies over health-care legislation
and overhauling the financial system in the previous two years,
companies just want a deal, Bonjean said in an interview.  “How they get it done, they don’t care.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  