-- 
‘Gossip Girl’ Couture Is Back-To-School Boon

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-08-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/-gossip-girl-couture-is-back-to-school-boon-for-u-s-retailers.html
Angela Ricci is shopping for lacy
tops, ruffled skirts and floral dresses to wear when she begins
her senior year of high school in Pittsburgh. One thing she
won’t be buying: jeans.  “I want to show a new kind of style and make a better
impression,” said Ricci, 17. “I think that my generation is
inspired to dress up a little more.”  Teens like Ricci are following the example of television
shows such as “Gossip Girl” -- in which actress Blake Lively
prances to class in couture -- as they head to stores to stock
up for the new school year. Retailers, stung by slowing sales
growth and record cotton costs, are obliging with blouses and
dresses that sell for higher prices.  Spending on clothing and shoes in the back-to-school
season, the second-largest sales period of the year for
retailers, may rise to $28.8 billion in the U.S., up 3.6 percent
from $27.8 billion a year earlier, according to the New York-
based  International Council of Shopping Centers .  Dressy clothes would be a bright spot in a slower-growing
back-to-school season. Total back-to-school purchases, including
books and electronics, may increase 2.9 percent, decelerating
from 5 percent growth a year earlier, the council said.  Parents’ clothes spending may go increasingly toward
dressier garments and items children don’t already have, said
 Ellen Davis , vice president of the Washington-based  National
Retail Federation .  ‘Think Beyond Denim’  “Retailers have encouraged shoppers to think beyond denim
for a while because they can market nicer merchandise at a
higher price point,” Davis said. “For the past few years we’ve
also seen this trend on television and other culture of people
trying to look nicer and dress up.”  The change in tastes is coming at the right time for
fashion chains, which could use the boost from higher-priced
garments, she said.  U.S. consumer spending rose 0.1 percent in the second
quarter, the smallest gain since the recession, the Commerce
Department said July 29. Average sales growth among the 23
largest North American apparel retail chains by market value
slowed to 11 percent in their most recent quarter from 14
percent a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cotton prices, which have climbed 32 percent in the past
year and reached a record $2.197 a pound in March, may make
denim jeans just as expensive to produce as khakis or blouses,
Davis said. The apparel retailers’ average gross margin -- the
percentage of revenue left after the cost of goods sold --
narrowed to 43.7 percent in the most recent quarter from 44.3
percent a year earlier, according to Bloomberg data.  Nicer Clothes  “Retailers much prefer this trend to the flannel pants and
casual wear of a few years ago because the profit margins are
much higher,” Davis said in a telephone interview. “Parents
are willing to spend a little more on clothes that they think
are nicer.”  At  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF) ’s stores, a polyester blouse
with lace detailing sells for $98, compared with $30 for a t-
shirt. The store, known for teen clothing and its signature
cologne, has introduced a “soft and pretty” section of its
website offering skirts, cardigans and dresses.  Gap’s back-to-school collection for girls features a
“posh” London chic look, including $45 ruffled jackets and
$49 tiered skirts inspired by  Kate Middleton , the wife of the
U.K.’s Prince William, said Seth Farbman, chief marketing
officer.  Little Miss Proper  Gap’s featured ensembles on its website include floral
dresses and skirts with names like “Little Miss Proper” and
“High-Posh Society.”  “The look now is a little more dressed-up,” Farbman said
last week. “Even the denim doesn’t necessarily look like the
jeans you’d expect.”  Many of Gap’s jeans are made from softer material in colors
like pink, sand and black.  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  also is featuring preppy fashions over
casual wear, pushing back-to-school gear from MTV star Audrina
Patridge and reality socialite  Kim Kardashian . The department
store, which is offering $38 polo shirts and $30 Dockers pants,
introduced a “Varsity Prep” line.  “Young customers increasingly appreciate trend fashion
perspectives from the top lines, and we are trying to enhance
our clothing lines to be in-line with more runway styles,” said
Tom Aiello, marketing vice president at Sears.  Flirty Femme  J.C. Penney Co. is pushing a “flirty femme” look complete
with ruffled dresses and shrugs, said Liz Sweney, senior
merchandise manager.  Retailers began promoting back-to-school items in July this
year, which is unusually early, hoping to lure shoppers before
the competition and while the weather is still warm, Davis said.
Lacy blouses and polo shirts are easier to sell in the
sweltering heat, when many promotions now begin, said Betty Chen, an analyst for San Francisco-based Wedbush securities.  “With heat waves and droughts hitting much of the U.S.
this summer, shoppers are unlikely to shell out for hot bottoms
like denim and will instead spring for lighter clothing they can
wear immediately,” Chen said.  Television shows influence what kids wear, and the preppy
tradition is likely to continue for some time, Davis said.  “Retailers like it, it’s what celebrities are doing, so I
expect that denim won’t be the back-to-school staple it once
was,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  