-- 
Ahab Scowls in Soggy ‘Moby’; Koran Contest; Battling Beards: Greg Evans

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-08-01T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/ahab-scowls-in-soggy-moby-koran-contest-battling-beards-greg-evans.html
William Hurt’s scowling, growling
Captain Ahab is more convincing than the hokey computer-enhanced
leviathan he stalks in Encore’s two-part, three-hour “ Moby Dick .”  Hamming it up with an “Aargh, me maties!” pirate voice, Hurt
at least gives this $25 million German production something for
its money. That digital whale, not so much.  Drifting from the original Melville, the miniseries
(Encore’s entry into original programming) announces its
infidelity early on.  In the opening scene, invented by screenwriter Nigel
Williams, Ishmael (played by Charlie Cox, a Robert Pattinson-
lookalike) rescues young crewmate Pip from a beating. The
wandering sailor then extends his hand to the black boy and
parrots the book’s famous first sentence: “Call me Ishmael.”  That’s as clever as it gets in this handsome but dour
“Moby.” Ethan Hawke’s Starbuck is all sullen disapproval, and
Gillian Anderson creates a dreary Elizabeth Ahab (don’t bother
looking for her in the book). Ishmael, the novel’s witty, poetic
narrator, is transformed into a nice, boring guy with pop-idol
looks.  Director Mike Barker handles the action scenes effectively,
but the tale’s long stretches of shipboard squabbles and rough
sailing make for a wearying voyage.  “Moby Dick” airs tonight and tomorrow on Encore at 8 p.m.
 New York  time. Rating: **1/2  ‘Koran by Heart’  Nabiollah Saidov, a 10-year-old boy from rural Tajikistan,
can recite all 600 pages of the Koran from memory. And in Arabic,
a language he doesn’t understand.  Actually, “recite” doesn’t do justice to the kid’s talent,
as captured in  Greg Barker ’s thoughtful HBO documentary “ Koran by
Heart .” Nabiollah chants in a soprano that leaves one judge of
Cairo’s International Holy Koran Competition in tears.  More than 100 participants from 70 countries, some as young
as 7, compete in the annual Ramadan event. The contest draws
participants from the spectrum of Muslim life, while promoting a
moderate vision of Islam that decries terrorism.  Barker focuses on Nabiollah and two other 10-year-old
contestants. Though the tone is gentle, “Koran by Heart”
doesn’t flinch from the high cost of such religious devotion:
Though Nabiollah’s memory is terrific, he can neither read nor
write.  “Koran by Heart” airs tonight on  HBO  at 9 p.m. New York
time. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Whisker Wars’  Cable TV’s fascination with regular Joes and their odd
hobbies or dangerous jobs continues with IFC’s “ Whisker Wars ,” a
comical documentary series about the bizarre, not particularly
appealing “sport” of facial-hair competition.  The show is produced by Thom Beers, the man behind such
surprise cable hits as “Deadliest Catch,” “Ice Road Truckers” and
“Storage Wars.”  But hair-growing is no match for rough seas,
slick highways or even abandoned storage units.  “Whisker Wars” is a one-joke show, the punchline delivered
early (and often) by Beers himself, who narrates in mock-
stentorian style. “ Germany  has long dominated the sport of
bearding,” he intones, as if he’s announcing the Olympics.  Less arch is Aarne Bielefeldt, whose waist-length whiskers
and Bavarian mountain-man costumes make him a circuit favorite.  “Not really much to say,” Bielefeldt says after a win. “It
grows.”  “Whisker Wars” airs Friday on IFC at 11 p.m. New York time.
Rating: *1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 