-- 
Thai Crown Prince Will Use Own Funds to End German Plane Seizure Dispute

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-08-01T05:22:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/thai-prince-to-use-own-funds-to-end-german-plane-seizure-dispute.html
Thailand’s Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn will use his personal funds to recover an
airplane that was seized by German liquidators in Munich last
month as part of a bankruptcy dispute.  Werner Schneider, the insolvency administrator for builder
 Walter Bau AG (WTB) , seized a  Boeing 737  belonging to the crown prince
on July 11 to force payment on a 30 million euro ($43.2 million)
claim against the Thai state, the company said last month.  The crown prince “has no connection with the dispute
between the Thai government and Walter Bau, and didn’t cause the
dispute,” the crown prince’s secretariat said in a statement
released late yesterday. “To avoid any impact to the good
relationship between Thailand and  Germany  and to end the dispute
on good terms and in an expeditious manner, the crown prince
will provide his personal funds to end the dispute.”  A 2009  decision  by the United Nations Commission on
International Trade Law, or Uncitral, ordered  Thailand  to pay
Walter Bau more than 30 million euros for breaching a bilateral
investment treaty between Germany and Thailand. The order found
that Thailand’s government breached the terms of a toll road
concession operated by a venture partly owned by Walter Bau.  A Berlin court ruled on July 20 that Thailand must deposit
20 million euros to secure the release of the aircraft,
according to the crown prince’s statement.  The insolvency administrator took action after Thailand
ignored its requests for payment, which received assistance from
the German government, Werner Schneider said on July 13. The
crown prince’s statement didn’t say how much will be paid.  Thaksin’s Travel Ban  German authorities last month removed a travel ban on
former Thai premier,  Thaksin Shinawatra , the Nation newspaper
reported on July 30, citing Noppadon Pattama, his lawyer and a
former Thai foreign minister. Thaksin has lived in Dubai since
fleeing a 2008 jail term for abuse of power.  Thaksin’s sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, is scheduled to be
chosen as Thailand’s first female prime minister later this week
after leading her Pheu Thai party to victory in the country’s
July 3 election.  The crown prince is the only son of head of state  King
Bhumibol Adulyadej , 83. Thai law imposes a jail sentence of up
to 15 years for defaming, insulting or threatening the king,
queen, heir apparent or regent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net  