-- 
Air Force Plane Investigating System That May Affect Florida

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-01T21:43:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/air-force-plane-investigating-system-that-may-affect-florida.html
A U.S. Air Force Reserve
reconnaissance plane investigated a weather system extending
eastward from the Lesser Antilles that has “near tropical storm
force” winds, while in the Pacific Tropical Storm Eugene has
strengthened into a hurricane, according to the National
Hurricane Center.  The Atlantic storm, if it forms, is expected to head
northwest through the  Caribbean Sea  toward the Bahamas and
possibly  Florida , according to computer projections posted on
Weather Underground Inc.  website .  “It could be impacting the Florida peninsula this
weekend,” said Andy Mussoline, a meteorologist with  AccuWeather
Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . Florida is the world’s
second-largest producer of oranges, behind  Brazil .  The system has an 80 percent chance of becoming a tropical
cyclone within two days, according to the  Miami-based center .
The weather front had a near 100 percent chance of becoming a
storm yesterday.  A tropical cyclone is the generic name given to all
tropical depressions, storms and hurricanes by the center. A
storm gets a name when its maximum winds reach 39 miles (63
kilometers) per hour, which is the threshold for be classified a
tropical storm.  “Environmental conditions remain conducive for a tropical
depression or a tropical storm to form later today,” according
to a center advisory issued about 2 p.m. New York time. “If the
system becomes a tropical cyclone tonight or tomorrow tropical
storm warnings would be issued for the northern Windward Islands
and the Leeward Islands on very short notice.”  No Rotation Seen  The system isn’t showing rotation around a central point,
Mussoline said. Tropical cyclones rotate counterclockwise in the
Northern Hemisphere, have their strongest winds at the core and
draw power from warm ocean waters.  Mussoline said he expects the system will meet the criteria
of a tropical cyclone today or tomorrow and may grow into at
least a Category 1 hurricane, with winds of at least 74 mph on
the five-step Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale.  A Category 1 storm, the weakest type of hurricane, can
still shatter windows, tear off roofs and destroy older mobile
homes, according to the hurricane center.  In the eastern  Pacific Ocean , Tropical Storm Eugene grew
into a Category 1 hurricane with maximum winds of 75 mph,
according to the center. Eugene is forecast to take a track
moving to the northwest and that will keep it away from land for
the rest of the week.  Eugene, the fifth hurricane to form in the eastern Pacific
this year, is 410 miles southwest of Zihuatanejo,  Mexico ,
according to the center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 