-- 
Airbnb Offers $50,000 Property Guarantee After User’s Home Is Vandalized

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-08-01T22:26:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/airbnb-offers-50-000-guarantee-after-user-s-san-francisco-home-is-trashed.html
Airbnb Inc. , a website that lets
users rent out their homes, announced plans to offer a $50,000
property protection guarantee after a host had her apartment
vandalized by visitors.  The program, available starting Aug. 15, will be extended
to all customers, including hosts who have reported past
incidents, the San Francisco-based company said today in a  blog
posting . Airbnb also is adding a 24-hour customer hotline.  The announcement follows a June 29 report of vandalism on
the blog of  a woman known as EJ . She said that her San Francisco
apartment was ransacked and personal property stolen by a renter
who stayed at her place for a week. News of the incident spread
last week, and the company faced criticism for its slow response
to the case and the lack of protection offered to customers.  “We should have responded faster, communicated more
sensitively and taken more decisive action to make sure she felt
safe and secure,” Chief Executive Officer Brian Chesky wrote in
the Airbnb post. “But we weren’t prepared for the crisis and we
dropped the ball. Now we’re dealing with the consequences.”  Emily Joffrion, a spokeswoman for Airbnb, declined to say
if an insurance company is involved with the guarantee program.
The company will provide more details when the service debuts on
Aug. 15, she said.  Funding Deal  The story of the ransacking circulated the same week Airbnb
received a $112 million investment. Venture firm Andreessen
Horowitz led the funding round, which included contributions
from  Russia ’s Digital Sky Technologies and General Catalyst
Partners. Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is
an investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  The investment valued Airbnb at $1.3 billion,
according to a person familiar with the matter. The startup
competes with HomeAway Inc., an Austin, Texas-based company that
held an initial public offering in June.  Founded in 2008 by Chesky, Joe Gebbia and Nathan
Blecharczyk, Airbnb lets users rent out a couch, bedroom or full
house. The company, which makes money by charging a fee for each
transaction, lists properties in 17,030 cities in 190 countries,
according to  its website .  Airbnb has more than doubled its customer support team to
88 people since last month and is adding a 10-year veteran from
EBay Inc. to run that team next week, Chesky said today. The
company also has an in-house  task force  to review suspicious
activity, he said.  Suspect Captured  In the EJ case, Airbnb worked with the San Francisco Police
Department, and a suspect is now in custody, Chesky said.  In her original posting, EJ said that the renter rifled
through everything in her home.  “They smashed a hole through a locked closet door, and
found the passport, cash,  credit card  and grandmother’s jewelry
I had hidden inside,” she said on the blog. “They took my
camera, my iPod, an old laptop, and my external backup drive
filled with photos, journals... my entire life.”  The technology blog  TechCrunch , which covered the EJ
incident last week, reported yesterday on another  San Francisco 
Bay area resident, Troy Dayton, who suffered a similar
experience two months ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  