-- 
Ajisen Slumps After Report Company Fined for Using Additives

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-08-01T10:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/ajisen-slumps-after-report-company-fined-for-using-additives-1-.html
Ajisen ( China ) Holdings Ltd., a chain
of Japanese-style noodle restaurants, sank the most in almost
three years in Hong Kong trading after state radio said the
company was fined last year for using an illegal additive.  The stock fell 12 percent, the most since Oct. 10, 2008, to
HK$13.46 at the 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong. The benchmark  Hang
Seng Index  gained 1 percent.  The noodle chain’s  Shanghai  unit was fined 787,000 yuan
($122,000) in May 2010 for use of the additive sorbitol in its
noodles, China National Radio reported yesterday, citing Zhao
Yang, a director at the Shanghai Municipal Bureau of Quality and
Technical Supervision’s news department. The company stopped
using the additive in May 2009 after “authorities brought an
action against the group”, Ajisen said in a statement filed to
the  Hong Kong  stock exchange after the close of trading.  “Food safety should be a primary concern for the company
since that’s what consumers care about the most,” said Titus Wu,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at DBS Vickers Hong Kong Ltd.  Ajisen’s packaged noodles tested in May 2009 by the quality
bureau contained sorbitol, an additive that wasn’t allowed to be
used in flour-based products, CNR reported.  Two calls and an e-mail to the Shanghai’s quality bureau
went unanswered.  Ajisen slid 8.3 percent on July 25 after media reports said
the noodle chain uses soup concentrate and overstated the
nutritional value of its product. The company said on a
statement on its website the next day that it uses real pork
bones for its soup and the use of concentrate is to help control
the quality of its products.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 Myun9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  