-- 
Alabama Immigration Law Improperly Encroaches on Federal Power, U.S. Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-01T23:14:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/alabama-immigration-law-imporperly-encroaches-on-federal-power-u-s-says.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  sued
Alabama’s government, arguing the state’s newly passed
immigration law conflicts with federal law and is invalid.  “While the federal government values state assistance and
cooperation with respect to immigration enforcement, a state
cannot set its own immigration policy,” the U.S. Justice
Department said today in a press statement announcing the
filing.  Alabama Governor Robert Bentley signed the law broadening
police powers on June 9, following Arizona Governor Jan Brewer
in requiring local authorities to identify illegal immigrants.
The law is set to take effect on Sept. 1.  The measure requires police officers to verify the
immigration status of anyone they stop and suspect may be in the
U.S. illegally. Businesses must use a federal database called E-
Verify to determine whether job applicants are eligible to work.
In addition, the law makes it a crime to rent housing to illegal
immigrants.  Alabama  is the fifth U.S. state to enact such
legislation.  “Setting immigration policy and enforcing immigration laws
is a national responsibility that cannot be addressed through a
patchwork of state emigration laws,” U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said in his department’s press statement.  To the extent the Justice Department finds state laws that
interfere with federal immigration law, the U.S. will bring
suit, Holder said.  ‘Unlawful Presence’  In its filing today, the U.S. asked for a court order
blocking parts of the Alabama measure, arguing that they
criminalize “unlawful presence” and conflicts with federal
regulation of alien employment.  “Lawsuits have been filed in every state that has passed a
strong immigration law,” Bentley said in an e-mailed statement
responding to the U.S. filings.  “The federal government did not do what it was supposed to
do to enforce laws against illegal immigration. That’s why I
campaigned on the need for a strong immigration law in
Alabama,” the governor said. “The legislature passed that law
and I signed it.”  The federal government’s case, filed in federal court in
Birmingham, Alabama, is at least the third legal challenge to
the measure. Leaders of three Christian denominations
representing 338,000 Alabama residents filed suit earlier today.
The  Southern Poverty Law Center  last month challenged the law in
a case filed at the state’s capital, Montgomery.  Lost Workforce  Fran Viselli is a deacon at Holy Spirit Catholic Church in
Tuscaloosa, and works with that church’s Hispanic ministry. He
said many Hispanics “have already left and many more are
planning to leave. We have lost a significant part of our
workforce here.”  “It’s best for the Justice Department to come in,” he
said. “The Hispanic community, though, will do nothing until
they know for sure what it means. That’s the first question they
ask: What does it mean for us?”  The case is U.S. v. Alabama, 11-J-2746-S, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham). The church
leaders’ suit is Parsley v. Bentley, 11-S-2736, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  