-- 
Alabama Churches Sue to Prevent State From Enforcing Its Immigration Law

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-08-01T20:41:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/alabama-churches-sue-to-prevent-state-from-enforcing-its-immigration-law.html
Church leaders in  Alabama  sued to
block enforcement of the state’s immigration law over claims it
prevents free exercise of religion.  Leaders of the Episcopal, Methodist and Roman Catholic
churches representing 338,000 Alabama residents filed the suit
today in federal court in Birmingham, Alabama, according to a
statement e-mailed by the White, Arnold and Dowd law firm of
Birmingham.  Alabama Governor Robert Bentley signed the law broadening
police powers on June 9, following Arizona Governor Jan Brewer
in requiring local authorities to identify illegal immigrants.
The law is set to take effect on Sept. 1. Today’s lawsuit
follows another brought last month by the  Southern Poverty Law
Center  in Montgomery challenging the law.  The law requires police officers to verify the immigration
status of anyone they stop and suspect may be in the U.S.
illegally. Businesses must use a federal database called E-
Verify to determine whether job applicants are eligible to work.
In addition, the measure makes it a crime to rent housing to
illegal immigrants. Alabama became the fifth U.S. state to enact
such legislation.  The law “interferes with the biblical imperative of
hospitality which our churches have adopted and encoded in
various documents of governance,” Bishop Robert J. Baker of the
Birmingham Diocese of the Roman Catholic Church in Alabama said
in the statement. “It aims to shut the doors of our churches
and social ministries, against our wills, to a whole class of
people, denying them access to such basic human needs as food,
clothing, shelter, and, most importantly, worship of God.”  The complaint couldn’t immediately be confirmed with the
court.  The case is Parsley Jr. v. Bentley, 11-S-2736, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  