-- 
Malawi President Mutharika Urges Calm During Ramadan After July Protests

-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o
-- 
2011-08-01T11:22:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/malawi-president-mutharika-urges-calm-during-ramadan-after-july-protests.html
Malawi President Bingu wa Mutharika
appealed to citizens not to protest this month in respect for
Muslims during their holy month of Ramadan, after anti-
government demonstrations in July led to 18 deaths.  “I don’t want to hear of any demonstrations this month
because it is a month of prayers,” Mutharika said in a speech
today from the capital, Lilongwe, broadcast on state radio.
“That way we will respect all Muslims in the country,” he
said.  Civil society groups, which led protests on July 20 against
government policies and a shortage of fuel of foreign currency,
have warned of more demonstrations across the country if
Mutharika doesn’t respond to a list of demands by Aug. 17.
Muslims make up about 13 percent of the southern African
nation’s 15.5 million people, according to the National
Statistics Office 2008 population census.  Mutharika is trying to use Ramadan as an excuse to stop
people protesting, said MacDonald Sembereka, the acting
coordinator for the Human Rights Consultative Committee, one of
the organizers of last month’s demonstrations.  “Come Aug. 17 we want answers on the petition that we gave
him on July 20,” Sembereka said. “We will go back to the
streets, he can’t stop us.”  Police clashed with protesters in the country’s main towns
of Blantyre, Lilongwe, Mzuzu and Karonga on July 20 and 21,
leaving 18 people dead, according to Henry Chimbali, spokesman
for the health ministry. The U.S. and U.K. condemned the police
crackdown and have cut aid. Malawi, the world’s biggest producer
of the burley variety of tobacco, depends on donors for as much
as 40 percent of its budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  