-- 
Alibaba.com Rises After Parent Settles Alipay Dispute With Yahoo, Softbank

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-08-01T10:53:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/alibaba-rises-in-premarket-trading-on-yahoo-agreement-correct-.html
Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688)  rose the most in
seven months in  Hong Kong  trading after its parent reached a
deal with Yahoo! Inc. and  Softbank Corp. (9984)  over compensation for
the spinoff of the Alipay payment business.  Alibaba.com rose 6.3 percent, the most since Jan. 3, to
HK$11.54 at the 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong. Parent Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd. said on July 29 its two biggest shareholders, Yahoo
and Softbank, agreed to a compensation deal that may result in
Alibaba Group receiving as much as $6 billion from Alipay.  The agreement ended a four-month dispute between Alibaba
Group, China’s biggest e-commerce company, and its foreign
shareholders over the spinoff of Alipay. The sale of the online
payment business to Alibaba Chairman Jack Ma’s private company
last year lacked the approval of the board and was only
disclosed to investors in March, Yahoo said previously.  Softbank,  Japan ’s third-biggest mobile carrier, fell 1.7
percent to 2,960 yen at the 3 p.m. close in  Tokyo . Yahoo shares
declined 3 percent in New York trading on July 29 after the
agreement with Alibaba was disclosed.  ‘Liquidity Event’  Alibaba Group will get between $2 billion and $6 billion in
the case of an initial public offering or “other liquidity
event” at Alipay, it said in a July 29 statement. Within the
range of the agreement, the amount to be paid to Alibaba in such
events will be calculated by multiplying Alipay’s equity value
by 37.5 percent.  Before the transfer, Alibaba Group owned 100 percent of
Alipay.  Alibaba, based in Hangzhou, eastern  China , previously said
the transfer of Alipay into Chinese ownership was necessary to
facilitate the application of an online payment license in
China. Alibaba’s board, comprising members including Yahoo co-
founder Jerry Yang and Softbank President Masayoshi Son, had
discussed the need to reorganize Alipay for more than three
years, Ma said in May.  Alibaba Group owns more than 70 percent of Hong Kong-listed
Alibaba.com, a unit that offers business-to-business online
commerce services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  