-- 
Allstate’s Wilson Bets on Corporate Bonds, Adds Cash Amid U.S. Debt Clash

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-08-01T20:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/allstate-s-wilson-bets-on-corporate-bonds-adds-cash-amid-u-s-debt-clash.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the auto and home
insurer with a $99.3 billion investment portfolio, is betting on
corporate bonds and building cash holdings as Congress nears a
deadline for raising the U.S. debt limit.  “We’re big proponents of doing something” on the debt
limit, said  Thomas Wilson , Allstate’s chairman and chief
executive officer, in an interview today. “Nevertheless, if you
think it’s not going to get done, you need to protect
yourself.”  Asset managers, including Pacific Investment Management
Co., see a haven in company debt as  Standard & Poor’s  weighs
whether to strip the U.S. government of its top  credit rating .
Wilson boosted Northbrook, Illinois-based Allstate’s corporate
bond holdings to $42.4 billion on June 30 from $37.7 billion six
months earlier, according to a regulatory filing today.  “The other thing we did was we got more liquid,” said
Wilson. “Our cash balance in banks went up dramatically over
the last couple of weeks” to take advantage of investment
opportunities that may be created by dislocations in the market.  The insurer is also limiting the percentage of equities in
its portfolio, said Wilson. Allstate held $4.95 billion of the
securities as of June 30, according to regulatory filings.
Allstate has been scaling back holdings of  municipal bonds  in
the past year.  Congress may vote today on a compromise sealed with
President  Barack Obama  to raise the $14.3 trillion U.S. debt
ceiling. The Treasury Department has said it will reach the
borrowing limit and run out of options for avoiding default
tomorrow without action by Congress.  Government Debt  S&P said last month that the U.S. government’s long-term
rating may be lowered by one or more levels into the AA category
if lawmakers haven’t slowed the rise of government debt and
aren’t likely to do so soon.  Allstate advanced 62 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $28.34 at
4:03 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading after
second-quarter results beat estimates. The insurer added auto
customers in most states, excluding New York and  Florida , where
it has scaled back to boost profitability.  A surge in claims costs from tornadoes and other storms led
to a second-quarter net loss of $620 million, or $1.19 a share,
the insurer said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  