-- 
Allstate Has $620 Million Loss, First in Two Years, as Storms Raise Costs

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-08-01T13:48:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/allstate-posts-620-million-loss-first-in-two-years-on-tornado-expenses.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the second-largest
U.S. home and auto insurer, posted its first quarterly loss in
more than two years as tornadoes led to a surge in claims costs.
The stock gained as results beat estimates.  The second-quarter net loss of $620 million, or $1.19 a
share, compares with profit of $145 million, or 27 cents, a year
earlier, the Northbrook, Illinois-based insurer said today in a
statement. The operating loss, which excludes some investment
results, was $1.23 a share, beating by 35 cents the average
estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Wilson , 53,
added auto customers in most states excluding New York and
 Florida , where the firm has scaled back to boost profitabilty.
He’s also raising rates for homeowners’ coverage after storms
caused catastrophe costs in the second quarter to balloon to
$2.34 billion, an expense the insurer had previously disclosed.  “There is a light at the end of the tunnel” if they can
reduce their homeowners exposure and increase the number of
auto-insurance customers, said Tom Lewandowski, an analyst at
Edward Jones & Co., in an interview. “There’s a lot of
pessimism priced into these shares.” He advises clients to buy
the stock.  Allstate rose 82 cents, or 3 percent to $28.54 at 9:38 a.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The insurer had
declined 13 percent this year through July 29 while the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index climbed 2.8 percent. The insurer had been
profitable every quarter since reporting a $274 million net loss
for the period ended in March 2009.  Bank Unit Shuttered  The insurer plans to shutter its banking unit after the
collapse of a deal to sell deposits to Discover Financial
Services, Allstate said today.  “We are continuing with plans to wind down the Allstate
Bank’s operations and anticipate obtaining regulatory approval
to cancel its banking charter by year-end 2011,” Allstate said
in a regulatory filing.  Catastrophe costs in the second quarter were $2.34 billion,
compared with $636 million a year earlier. Allstate lost 23.3
cents for every premium dollar in its property and liability
coverage unit compared with a gain of 3.2 cents a year earlier.
Using the so-called underlying ratio, which excludes items such
as catastrophes, the company made 12.5 cents for every premium
dollar in the second quarter.  Tornado Damage  More than  1,600 tornadoes  have been reported this year,
compared with 1,282 in all of 2010, according to the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration . Storms in the U.S.
contributed to $14.7 billion in direct insured losses to
property in the second quarter, ISO, a unit of Verisk Analytics
Inc., said in a June 22  statement .  Premium revenue in Allstate’s property and liability
business fell to $6.46 billion from $6.51 billion a year earlier
as the company’s auto and home policy counts declined. Wilson
announced a deal in May to purchase Esurance, the online seller
of auto coverage, and Answer Financial from White Mountains
Insurance Group Ltd. for about $1 billion.  “The actions we took during the quarter, including our
pending acquisition of Esurance and Answer Financial, position
us well,” Wilson said in today’s statement.  The departure last month of Joseph Lacher, president of
Allstate Protection since 2009, sent shares tumbling. Lacher had
overseen Allstate’s auto-coverage business, which has lost
customers for most of the last three years. Direct-to-consumer
rivals such as Progressive Corp. and Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s
Geico unit have added policies as drivers shun agents and
purchase coverage over the Internet.  Home Insurance  Lacher also managed Allstate’s business that covers
residential property. Allstate said in June that returns from
the homeowners unit were “inadequate.” Allstate has received
approval in 18 states to raise homeowners rates, according to
today’s statement. The company competes with policyholder-owned
State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., the largest U.S.
home and auto insurer.  “I don’t know if you can necessarily put the blame on Joe
fully for not being able to turn things around” since some of
the trends predate his tenure, said Brian Meredith, an analyst
at UBS AG. Lacher “was actually in the process of trying to fix
it.”  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, slumped
to $35.95 a share from $36.51 at the end of March. Wilson has
reshaped Allstate’s investment portfolio since 2008, when
writedowns contributed to an annual loss of $1.68 billion. He
bought corporate bonds while cutting back on stocks, commercial
mortgage-backed securities and municipal debt.  Allstate posted $57 million in realized investment gains in
the second quarter, compared with a loss of $451 million a year
earlier, on fewer writedowns and narrower derivative losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  