-- 
AmEx to Let Consumers Make Purchases on Verizon Wireless

-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 
2011-08-01T14:11:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/american-express-verizon-enter-deal-to-allow-payments-on-mobile-devices.html
  American Express Co. (AXP)  said it will
let consumers make purchases on Verizon Wireless devices as the
lender competes for mobile payments with rivals including  Visa
Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal.  AmEx, the biggest credit-card issuer by purchases, will
integrate its Serve mobile-payments system into many of
Verizon’s phones and tablets, the New York-based bank said today
in a statement.  The deal with Verizon, the largest U.S. wireless carrier,
is the biggest for Serve since a March rollout led by Dan Schulman, the group president of enterprise growth who joined
AmEx last year from Sprint Nextel Corp. AmEx struck its first
mobile-carrier deal for Serve last month with Sprint, based in
 Overland Park , Kansas.  “Our collaboration with Verizon highlights the speed at
which Serve is evolving to reach a wide audience,” Schulman
said in the statement.  Last month, AmEx announced that it will deliver customized
discounts and offers to cardholders who allow the lender to mine
their Facebook relationships and online interests. The agreement
with Facebook Inc. may help the social network capitalize on the
fast-growing market for daily online coupons made popular by
sites such as LivingSocial and Groupon Inc.  Greg Haller, president of enterprise and government at
Verizon Wireless, said Serve will complement another mobile-
payment option through the Isis network, a venture of Verizon,
AT&T Inc. and T-Mobile USA.  Verizon Wireless, based in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, is
owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and Vodafone Group Plc. T-
Mobile is a unit of Deutsche Telekom AG.  American Express fell 43 cents, to $49.61 at 10:08  a.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares had gained
17 percent this year through yesterday, the second-best
performance in the Dow Jones Industrial Average after
International Business Machines Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Eichenbaum in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  