-- 
Slim to Reunite Mexico Phone Units in $6.5 Billion Offer

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-08-02T20:29:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/america-movil-makes-offer-for-rest-of-mexico-s-telmex-at-90-cents-a-share.html
Carlos Slim  is putting his Mexican
phone empire back together after splitting it up a decade ago.  Slim’s America Movil SAB,  Latin America ’s largest wireless
carrier, offered about $6.5 billion to buy the 40.4 percent of
Telefonos de  Mexico  SAB it doesn’t already own, giving it full
control of its former parent. America Movil will pay 10.50 pesos
(90 cents) a share for Telmex, the nation’s largest fixed-line
phone carrier, according to a filing yesterday.  The deal would let America Movil combine its operations
with Telmex even more fully than it has since acquiring a
majority stake last year, Chief Financial Officer Carlos Garcia- Moreno said. The companies could sell services together and have
joint customer-service centers and stores, he said.  “The more integrated a business, the less overlap you
have,” Garcia-Moreno said yesterday in a phone interview.
“There are many synergies that you can’t get completely unless
you have a deeper integration.”  While taking over Telmex will cut administrative costs such
as accounting, America Movil will be increasing its stake in a
fixed-line business that is losing clients to competitors. Those
rivals include America Movil itself, as more Mexicans stop using
land lines in favor of mobile phones.  “Arguably, America Movil investors shouldn’t be thrilled
with the idea of owning more of a slower-growing, if not
declining, asset,” said  Christopher King , an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore who advises holding America Movil
shares. “The only advantage to doing this is really to the
extent they can eliminate corporate overhead.”  11% Premium  Telmex rose 27 centavos, or 2.6 percent, to 10.49 pesos in
Mexico City trading at 4 p.m. New York time. That followed a 7.7
percent increase yesterday, giving Telmex its biggest two-day
gain since 2001. America Movil, based in Mexico City, fell 25
centavos, or 1.7 percent, to 14.58 pesos.  The offer of 10.50 pesos a share represented an 11 percent
premium over Telmex’s closing price of 9.49 pesos on July 29.
The transaction would be the second-biggest this year in Latin
America after the merger of  Tele Norte Leste Participacoes SA (TNLP3) ’s
three units in  Brazil , according to Bloomberg data.  Taking control of Telmex would allow America Movil to
operate a single network in Mexico offering mobile, fixed-line
and Internet service. That would help it compete against  Grupo
Televisa SA (TLEVICPO) , the cable carrier that’s offering phone, Internet
and TV service and is entering the mobile-phone market.  Quadruple-Play Bundles  The packages of services are known as triple-play or
quadruple-play bundles, depending on how many features they
offer. Slim may be making a long-term bet on the demand for such
bundles, said Jorge Lagunas, who manages about $200 million at
Mexico City-based Grupo Financiero Interacciones SA.  “In some point in its history, we could see news about
quadruple-play from Telmex, or something like that, that could
help boost profit at America Movil itself,” Lagunas said.  America Movil has started combining wireless and land-line
offers in countries such as  Colombia  after acquiring fixed
networks in last year’s transaction, Garcia-Moreno said.  “Technological convergence is very powerful, and even more
so in an environment in which growing demand for data services
is materializing,” Garcia-Moreno said.  Slim, 71, bought control of Telmex from Mexico’s government
in a 1990 privatization sale. The phone company spun off its
wireless unit to form America Movil in 2001.  America Movil acquired its 59.6 percent stake in Telmex
last year in a $23 billion transaction that also gave it full
ownership of Slim’s fixed-line networks in  South America . While
America Movil considered making an offer to buy the rest of
Telmex then, executives decided to wait until they were more
comfortable with the company’s financial situation and its
integration of the South American business, Garcia-Moreno said.  Likely Approval  Last year’s transaction was approved by Mexico’s antitrust
agency, which suggests  America Movil  is likely to get approval
for the new Telmex offer, King said.  America Movil and Telmex have faced a series of blows this
year from Mexican regulators, including a $1 billion fine from
the antitrust agency for America Movil’s alleged anti-
competitive practices in the market for the mobile-phone fees
charged to rivals. America Movil is appealing that ruling, as
well as the telecommunications regulator’s decisions to cut
interconnection fees charged to competitors.  America Movil represents about 59 percent of Slim’s $70
billion in publicly disclosed holdings, according to Bloomberg
data. In addition to the America Movil stake, Slim and his
family have individual holdings in Telmex worth about $245
million. Slim also controls banking, mining, real-estate and
retail companies in Mexico.  Losing Land Lines  Telmex lost 308,000 phone lines to competitors last
quarter, ending the period with a total of 15.3 million. The
company has about 78 percent of Mexico’s fixed phone lines,
while America Movil controls about 70 percent of the nation’s
mobile-phone market.  Telmex’s Internet business is growing, with 7.7 million
subscriptions at the end of last quarter, up 10 percent from a
year earlier. America Movil argued in its acquisition last year
of fixed-line businesses in South America that demand for data
on wireless and wired networks is set to explode in the region,
and combining the Mexican businesses will also take advantage of
that trend, Garcia-Moreno said.  ‘Natural’ Transaction  “We’re still in a moment before what we expect will be
accelerated growth in data demand,” Garcia-Moreno said.
“America Movil is in good financial condition, with good
liquidity, so it was natural to go ahead with this
transaction.”  America Movil had about $7.5 billion in cash at the end of
last quarter. The company also signed deals this year giving it
access to $4 billion in credit lines.  AT&T Inc. (T) , which holds an 8.5 percent stake in Telmex, said
it will accept America Movil’s offer for its shares. The offer
values AT&T’s holdings at about $1.37 billion and will produce a
gain of about 1 cents to 3 cents a share, the Dallas-based phone
carrier said yesterday in a regulatory filing.  AT&T also owns about 9 percent of America Movil and is part
of a group with Slim and his family that controls the company’s
voting shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  