-- 
Americans Pay More for Health Care, Get Less: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-08-01T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/americans-pay-more-for-health-care-get-less-chart-of-the-day.html
Americans pay more for health care
than  Sweden  and France, spending more on hospital visits,
prescriptions and diagnostic-imaging tests, yet don’t always get
better results, according to the  Commonwealth Fund .  Spending more than twice as much per capita as Germany,
Sweden and France still leaves the U.S. with the worst record
among 12 developed countries on hospital admissions for asthma,
congestive heart failure and diabetes complications, according
to the fund, a private policy and research foundation based in
 New York . The U.S. scored best on survival rates for cancers
such as breast and colorectal.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the U.S. spent $7,538 per capita
on health care in 2008, most among the 12 nations and 50 percent
more than second-place  Norway , according to the Commonwealth
Fund’s July 27 report, using data from the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  “The typical American believes, ‘We are in America; we’ve
got to be the best,’” said Uwe Reinhardt, a Princeton
University health-care economist who has advised the  World Bank ,
U.S. Department of  Veterans Affairs  and  Department of Health  and
Human Services.  “No matter how bad things get, the American says ‘It’s got
to be worse in England, Sweden and Canada,’” said Reinhardt.
“The German system isn’t flawless, but no one has to lose their
house when they get sick.”  Sweden, which spent 9.4 percent of its gross domestic
product on health care compared with 16 percent for the U.S.,
had the lowest fatality rates for in-hospital heart attacks and
hemorrhagic stroke, according to the study.  Canada , which spent
10.4 percent of its GDP on health, had the best record on asthma
admissions and female cervical cancer survival.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  