-- 
Hamptons Scene: Harvard Researcher Eggan Courts Patricof, Wien

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-08-01T14:15:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/hamptons-scene-harvard-stem-cell-researcher-eggan-courts-patricof-wien.html
Harvard scientist Kevin Eggan
started Friday in Bar Harbor,  Maine , speaking at the  Jackson
Laboratory , the U.S.’s largest repository of mutant mice.  Two commercial-plane rides and one long drive later, he
was at a cocktail party in  East Hampton ,  New York , benefiting
the  New York Stem Cell Foundation .  Eggan, associate professor of stem cell and regenerative
biology at  Harvard University , is chief scientific officer of
the New York Stem Cell Foundation.  This year the foundation will spend $18 million -- a $6.4
million increase over last year -- on stem cell and
neuroscience research, including grants to early-career
investigators.  “This is disruptive medical research, like the discovery
of penicillin,” said Eggan, standing near a row of blue
hydrangea bushes at the home of Jodie and John Eastman on Lily
Pond Lane.  The red-haired 2006 MacArthur Fellow is developing a stem
cell bank that will allow drugs to be tested in the
laboratory.  “It’s a clinical trial in a dish,” he said. “We can
see better which people respond to which drugs before putting
them in humans.”  Campari-and-Soda  Eggan nursed a Campari-and-soda while he chatted with
guests including Byron Wien, vice chairman of Blackstone
Advisory Partners LP; Alan Patricof, managing director and
founder of Greycroft Partners LLC; Jonathan Schulhof, managing
director of GTI Capital Group LLC; and Peter J. Solomon,
chairman and founder of Peter J. Solomon Co.  “The amount of time I spend at an event like this is a
fraction of the time I spend writing a grant,” Eggan said.
“Not only that, the money that results is more flexible and
makes us more nimble.”  Accountability is another plus. “People like Stanley and
Fiona Druckenmiller and  Julian Robertson , they demand results
because they’re used to getting them. I love that,” Eggan
said.  Robertson, founder of Tiger Management LLC, gave $27
million to the foundation to fund early-career investigators.
The foundation will honor him at a fundraising dinner on Oct.
11 in New York.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 