-- 
Anheuser-Busch, Lilly, Google, Apple: Intellectual Property

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-01T11:15:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/anheuser-busch-lilly-rovi-corp-google-facebook-intellectual-property.html
Anheuser-Busch Inc., the maker of
Budweiser Beer, sued the International Brotherhood of Teamsters
and one of its local chapters for trademark infringement and
disparagement.  The unit of  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  alleges in the suit,
filed July 27 in federal court in Dayton,  Ohio , that the union
invoked the brand while publicizing a dispute with a regional
beverage distributor, Heidelberg Distributing Co.  According to the suit, the Teamsters took out
advertisements on two back-to-back billboards that said, “Tell
Budweiser Heidelberg’s Destruction of Ohio Jobs Is Tasteless.”
The St. Louis-based brewer claims the signs are false and
disparage the Budweiser trademark. The company seeks both
injunctive relief and damages.  Heidelberg is neither owned nor controlled by Anheuser-
Busch, according to the complaint.  Gary Rutledge, Anheuser-Busch’s general counsel for  North
America , said the company “will aggressively challenge any
action like this that sends a wrong and undeserved message to
consumers.”  The Teamsters’ general counsel, Brad Raymond, through a
spokesperson, described the suit as without merit and declined
to comment further. A Heidelberg representative didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  The case is Anheuser-Busch Inc. v. International
Brotherhood of Teamsters, 11-262, U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of Ohio (Dayton).  Patent  Lilly Wins Appeals Court Ruling in Strattera Patent Case  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , the world’s biggest maker of psychiatric
drugs, won an appeals court ruling in its effort to block
generic versions of attention-deficit treatment Strattera.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  on July 29 overturned a judge’s decision finding
Lilly’s patent invalid and remanded the case to the lower court
for further proceedings. The patent expires in 2017.  Strattera, known by its chemical name atomoxetine
hydrochloride, generated sales of $577 million last year for
Indianapolis-based Lilly. The company had won an order that
prevented drugmakers including Mylan Inc. and  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  from entering the market with a
generic version until this appeal was decided.  Lilly General Counsel Robert A. Armitage said in an e-mail
that the company was pleased with the ruling and “remain
confident that the patent is valid and enforceable.”  Mylan spokesperson Michael Laffin didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment. Teva spokeswoman Denise Bradley declined
to comment.  The case is Eli Lilly & Co. v. Actavis Elizabeth LLC, 2010-
1500, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Eli Lilly & Co. v. Actavis
Elizabeth LLC, 07cv3770, U.S. District Court for the District of
 New Jersey  (Newark).  For more, click here.  Rovi Sues Hulu Over Patents for Interactive TV Functions  Rovi Corp. (ROVI) , a provider of digital home-entertainment
products, sued online video service Hulu LLC alleging
infringement of patents for interactive television functions and
seeking unspecified damages.  Rovi, formerly known as Gemstar-TV Guide International
Inc., contends that Los Angeles-based Hulu is wrongly using
protected technology for electronic programming guides,
according to a complaint filed July 28 in federal court in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  “Rovi invests significant resources” in development of
its guides and related inventions for digital video streaming
technologies, the Santa Clara, California-based company said in
court papers.  Elisa Schreiber, a Hulu spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the suit. Hulu, which has put itself up for sale, is co-owned by
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  News Corp. (NWSA)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   Rovi was formed when Macrovision Corp. acquired Gemstar-TV
Guide in 2008, according to the complaint. Rovi reported $541.5
million in sales last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News.  The company “leads the digital entertainment industry in
the development and improved functionality of guidance systems
for TVs, recorders, set-top boxes and other devices,” according
to the complaint.  The case is Rovi Corp. v. Hulu LLC, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patents, click: 6,396,546; 7,103,906; and
7,769,775.  Rambus Loses Ruling in Appeal of Document-Destruction Case  A decision will stand that  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  destroyed documents
as it pursued patent-infringement claims against Micron
Technology Inc. and  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , a U.S. appeals
court said.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington, which ruled in May against Sunnyvale, California-
based Rambus, rejected requests that the cases be reheard,
according to a notice posted on the court’s website July 29.  Rambus, a chip designer that sues companies that refuse to
license its technology, was slowed in its effort to extract
royalties from Micron and Hynix because of allegations it got
rid of potential evidence. The appeals court decision from May
ordered the lower court judge in the Micron trial to reconsider
the degree to which Rambus acted in bad faith and threw out a
$397 million judgment against Hynix so the court in that case
could also revisit the document-destruction issue.  Hynix, based in Ichon,  South Korea , is the world’s second-
largest maker of computer-memory chips, trailing Samsung
Electronics Co. Boise, Idaho-based Micron is the largest in the
U.S.  The disputes with Micron and Hynix are over the companies’
use of interfaces that are part of dynamic random access memory
that acts as the main memory in computers. DRAM is built to
industry standards and is interchangeable by product. Hynix and
Micron claimed Rambus got rid of papers that would have proved
Rambus misled the board that sets that standard.  The appeals are Micron Technology v. Rambus, 2009-1263, and
Hynix Semiconductor v. Rambus, 2009-1299, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower-court cases are
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  v. Rambus Inc., 00-cv-00792, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington) and Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. v. Rambus Inc., 00-cv-20905, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  (San Jose).  Myriad Wins Appeal That Isolated DNA Can Be Patented  Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) , maker of tests that help determine
the hereditary risk of breast cancer, won an appeals court
ruling that its technology related to isolated DNA is eligible
for patent protection.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington posted notice of the decision on its website July 29.
The biotechnology industry had said it needed the patent
protection to entice venture capital funding to pay for research
into new medicines and into the causes of diseases.  “This is a positive decision for the biotech industry, but
center stage will be the  Supreme Court ,” which will likely have
to hear the case, said Edward Reines, a patent lawyer with Weil
Gotshal & Manges LLP in Redwood Shores, California. The U.S.
high court already has agreed to consider whether certain
diagnostic tests are eligible for patent protection.  A trial judge, rejecting guidelines set by the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office, had said isolated DNA is no different than
what appears in nature and isn’t eligible for protection. The
ruling split the medical community as scientists and religious
groups argued that gene patents limit who can perform research.  Genes are encoded strands of nucleotides in different
sequences that are responsible for inherited traits. The Myriad
genes strip out unneeded information to home in on those
portions of DNA that determine if a person has a higher risk of
breast and ovarian cancer.  The Federal Circuit upheld a lower court ruling that patent
claims related to an analysis of the DNA were invalid if they
only dealt with comparisons.  The American Civil Liberties Union and the Public Patent
Foundation affiliated with the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law
in  New York  represented the challengers including the
 Association for Molecular Pathology  and  American College of
Medical Genetics  and had the partial backing of the Obama
administration.  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad,
10-1406, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Association for Molecular
Pathology v. U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, 09cv4515, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Sanofi Wins  Australia  Arava Infringement Case Against Apotex  Sanofi,  France ’s biggest drugmaker, won a court bid to
block Canadian generic drug manufacturer Apotex Ltd. from
selling its version of the rheumatoid arthritis drugs Arava and
Arabloc in Australia.  Justice Jayne Jagot ruled July 29 in Sydney federal court
that Apotex’s copy of the medications, which contain the drug
leflunomide, infringed Sanofi’s patent and that Apotex failed to
prove the patent wasn’t valid.  The ruling will allow Sanofi to sell Arava and Arabloc in
Australia without competition from generics until the patent
expires in March 2014. The judge also agreed with Sanofi that
Apotex’s proposal to sell its version of the drug to doctors,
pharmacists and patients without notification that the patent
may be infringed would violate Australia’s retail law.  “These representations would be false and likely to
mislead,” Jagot wrote in the 146-page judgment. “The
respective recipients would not be entitled to prescribe,
dispense and use Apotex’s leflunomide product as such conduct
would infringe the patent.”  Sanofi has competed with copycat versions of Arava in the
U.S. since 2005, when Apotex and other generic drug
manufacturers won U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval to
sell copies of the medicine.  The case is Sanofi-Aventis Australia Ltd. v. Apotex Ltd.
NSD1664/2008. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  Google Buys Inventions From IBM, Aims to Build Patent Hoard  Google Inc. (GOOG) , facing a growing threat of intellectual-
property lawsuits, acquired a batch of patents this month from
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  to bolster its portfolio.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on July 11 and 12
 recorded  more than 1,000 patents assigned to Mountain View,
California-based Google by IBM. They cover a range of topics
including microprocessing chips, regional databases and memory
fabrication and architecture, said Bill Slawski, president of
SEO by the Sea Inc., a Warrenton, Virginia-based research firm
specializing in search-engine optimization.  “Like many tech companies, at times we’ll acquire patents
that are relevant to our business,” Mountain View, California-
based Google said last week in an e-mailed statement.  Google’s Android mobile operating system has been targeted
in at least six legal complaints, increasing its need for
intellectual property to defend the company against litigation.
Google, the world’s largest Internet search company, also aims
to curb abuses of the patent system. The company has urged
Congress and the Federal Trade Commission to rein in lawsuits,
and asked the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to take closer
looks at patents being used in litigation.  “The tech industry has a significant problem,” Google
General Counsel Kent Walker said in an interview last week.
“Software patents are kind of gumming up the works of
innovation.”  Google’s rivals have said the company is critical of the
patent system because it has few patents of its own and entered
a smartphone market where companies had been researching and
selling products for years before Android phones went on sale in
2008.  The Android system is a free, open-source program that
relies on some nonproprietary features Google didn’t create and
allows outside developers to modify the code. That has left the
company vulnerable to claims that it built Android on the backs
of research done by other technology companies.  Google, which had $39.1 billion in cash and short-term
investments as of June, put in an initial $900 million offer in
April to buy the patents of bankrupt phone-equipment maker
Nortel Networks Corp. It was outbid by a group that includes
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Research In Motion Ltd., which
all make devices that compete with Android phones.  Standard Bank, MTN Have Court Date in Patent Dispute  Standard Bank Group Ltd. and  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  are scheduled
to go to  South Africa ’s second-highest court on Aug. 1 to defend
themselves in a technology supplier’s lawsuit over a credit-card
security feature.  3MFuture Africa Ltd. , a Seychelles-based company with
offices in Cape Town, is seeking damages from the MTN Mobile
Money Ltd. remote-banking joint venture for violating a patent
on a system allowing consumers to switch credit cards on or off
via mobile phone to prevent illicit use, the software developer
said in an e-mailed statement.  Standard Bank, Africa’s largest lender, said in April 2010
that it had received a summons in the dispute. The Johannesburg-
based bank will defend itself in the case,  Erik Larsen , a
spokesman, said July 29 in a phone interview, declining to
comment further. Bridget Bhengu, a spokeswoman at Johannesburg-
based phone company MTN, said she couldn’t immediately comment.  3MFuture Africa held more than 30 meetings about the system
with Standard Bank and MTN representatives, Wolfram Reiners, a
director at the technology company, said in a phone interview.
The meetings took place in 2001 and 2002, Willem Steenkamp, a
spokesman for 3MFuture, said by phone.  The case is scheduled to be heard over the course of two
weeks in the Patent Court of the South African High Court in
 Pretoria , 3MFuture said.  Microsoft Must Pay Alcatel $70 Million in Damages, Jury Says  Microsoft Corp. must pay $70 million for infringing an
Alcatel-Lucent patent used in versions of Microsoft’s Outlook
program and two other applications, a federal jury in San Diego
said July 29.  Alcatel-Lucent, France’s largest telecommunications-
equipment maker, had asked the jury to return as much as $75
million in damages. Microsoft’s lawyers asked jurors to limit
damages to $5 million.  The patent, described in court as involving a touch-screen
form entry that Microsoft argued is simply a “date-picker”
function, isn’t used with e-mail, the most popular function on
Outlook. Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent described the technology as
a pop-up tool for form-filing that “plays a central role in the
entire operation” of Outlook.  A different jury in San Diego in 2008 found that Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft had infringed the patent and awarded
$358 million in damages. An appeals court, upholding the
infringement verdict, overturned the damages award, finding the
calculation lacked sufficient evidentiary support. The case was
sent back for retrial on damages only.  The case is Lucent Technologies Inc. v. Gateway Inc., 07-
cv-2000 U.S. District Court, Southern District of California
(San Diego).  Apple Wins Order That Limits Damages in Personal Audio Case  Apple Inc., ordered by a jury to pay $8 million for
violating patents with its music playlists on the iPod, won a
U.S. court ruling that Personal Audio LLC can’t seek additional
damages from use on the iPad, iPhone and Macs.  The decision July 29 by U.S. District Judge Ron Clark in
Lufkin,  Texas , effectively shuts off efforts by Personal Audio
to pursue a second patent-infringement lawsuit that it filed
against Apple after the July 8 jury verdict.  “The court finds that the jury’s selection of lump sum as
the appropriate form of reasonable royalty clearly represents a
damages award giving Apple a fully paid up license that covers
all past and future use of the patented technology,” Clark said
in a decision posted on the court’s website.  Personal Audio, a patent licensing company with an office
in Beaumont, Texas, sued Apple in 2009 for $84 million in
damages, claiming infringement of two patents. The inventions
cover an audio player that can receive navigable playlists and
can skip forward or backward through the downloaded list.  The case is Personal Audio LLC v. Apple Inc., 09cv111, U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (Lufkin).  Apple Suit Puts Samsung Tablet Sales in Australia on Hold  Apple Inc. escalated a patent dispute against Samsung
Electronics Co. and won an agreement that the South Korean
company won’t sell the newest version of its tablet computer in
Australia until a lawsuit is resolved.  The Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 infringes 10 Apple patents,
including the “look and feel,” and touchscreen technology of
the iPad, Steven Burley, a lawyer for Apple, told  Federal Court 
Justice Annabelle Bennett in Sydney today. The Cupertino,
California-based company sought an Australian injunction and
also wants to stop Samsung from selling the tablet in other
countries, Burley said, without specifying where.  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, agreed to stop
advertising the Galaxy Tab 10.1 in Australia and not to sell the
device until it wins court approval or the lawsuit is resolved,
according to an accord reached by lawyers during a break in the
hearing. Should Apple lose its patent-infringement lawsuit, it
agreed to pay Samsung damages, which weren’t specified.  The dispute between the companies began in April when Apple
sued Samsung in the U.S., claiming the Galaxy products
“slavishly” imitated the designs and technologies used for its
iPad and iPhone. Samsung, which supplies memory chips for Apple,
retaliated with lawsuits in South Korea, Japan, Germany and the
U.S.  Apple is basing today’s claim on a U.S. version of the
Galaxy tablet, which is different from the one that will be sold
in Australia, Samsung’s lawyer Neil Murray said.  Samsung agreed to provide Apple with three samples of the
Australian version of the computer tablet at least seven days
before it planned to start distributing it so the U.S. company
could review it, according to the agreement submitted in court.  Bennett scheduled a hearing for Aug. 29 to review the
status of the case and set a trial date if necessary.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.,
NSD1243/2011, Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  Trademark  Facebook Sues Typosquatters for Trademark Infringement  Facebook Inc. sued Cyber2Media Inc. and more than 100 other
defendants in federal court in San Jose, California, on July 22
for cybersquatting and trademark infringement.  The complaint alleges that the defendants are so-called
typosquatters, who register names similar to recognized websites
to attract visitors who think they are linking to Facebook. Many
of the sites that infringe Facebook’s trademarks are hosted on
servers owned by Cyber2Media, according to the complaint.  The social-networking company seeks cancellation of the
defendants’ trademarks as well as damages.  Daniel Negari, the chief executive officer of Beverly
Hills-based Cyber2Media, who was also named as a defendant,
didn’t return a call seeking comment.  The case is Facebook Inc. v Cyber2Media Inc., CV 11-03619,
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California (San
Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 