-- 
Lansdowne Sells Goldman Sachs While Purchasing Morgan Stanley

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-08-01T17:47:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/lansdowne-hedge-fund-sells-goldman-sachs-while-purchasing-morgan-stanley.html
Lansdowne Partners Ltd., a London-
based hedge fund that manages about $14 billion, sold its entire
stake in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in the first three months of
the year, while buying Morgan Stanley.  Lansdowne sold 4.9 million shares of New York-based Goldman
Sachs between January and March, the hedge fund disclosed in a
May 16 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Lansdowne, founded by Paul Ruddock and Steven Heinz in 1998,
purchased 3.1 million shares of Morgan Stanley during the same
period, according to the filing.  Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and other financial companies
face more regulation after U.S. lawmakers approved legislation
last year that restricts banks from making risky bets with their
own capital. As policy makers increase oversight, Morgan Stanley
is pursuing a business model that relies less on trading to make
money, said Douglas G. Ciocca, chief executive officer of Kavar
Capital Partners LLC.  “If the world keeps deleveraging and de-risking, then
Morgan Stanley is much better positioned,” said Ciocca, whose
Leawood, Kansas-based company owns shares of Morgan Stanley and
Goldman Sachs. Morgan Stanley is also “much more attractive
than Goldman on a book-value basis,” he said.  Andrew Grant, a spokesman for Lansdowne, declined to
comment on the hedge fund’s trades. The sale of the Goldman
Sachs stake was reported yesterday by the U.K.’s  Daily
Telegraph .  Wealth Management   Morgan Stanley distanced its strategy from that of Goldman
Sachs with its 2009 purchase of a controlling stake in a retail
brokerage joint venture with  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s  Smith Barney . The
deal gave Morgan Stanley the world’s largest brokerage with
17,638 financial advisers as of June 30.  About 48 percent of Morgan Stanley’s revenue this year has
come from wealth and asset management, compared with about 13
percent for Goldman Sachs, according to regulatory filings.  Morgan Stanley, which bought a stake in Lansdowne in 2006,
is cheaper than Goldman Sachs relative to the firms’ book
values, a measure of assets minus liabilities. New York-based
Morgan Stanley shares closed at 26 percent below its book value
and 16 percent below its tangible book value on July 29. Goldman
Sachs shares was trading 2.7 percent above book value and 11
percent above tangible book.  Shares of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have slipped 18 percent this year
and Goldman Sachs has fallen 20 percent. In July, Goldman Sachs
reported second-quarter profit that missed analyst estimates
after the company’s fixed-income revenue fell 63 percent from
three months earlier.  U.K. Equity Fund  When Lansdowne was selling Goldman Sachs in the first
quarter, the company traded for an average share price of
$164.46. The stock closed at $134.97 on July 29.  Lansdowne’s filing with the SEC discloses holdings for its
U.K. Equity fund, its Global Financials fund and its European
Equity fund.  The firm’s biggest holdings of financial companies include
retail banks that are more dependent on lending than Goldman
Sachs and Morgan Stanley. Lansdowne owns 32 million shares of
San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and 13.9 million shares of
New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , according to the May filing
with the SEC.  The U.K. Equity fund, Lansdowne’s biggest, lost about 11
percent through July 22, according to an investor who asked not
to be identified because the information isn’t public. The fund
has a stake in  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the London-based bank
that has fallen about 35 percent this year.  ‘A Tough Year’  Lansdowne has also been betting that shares of  Prudential
Plc (PRU)  will decline. The hedge fund was shorting 1.35 percent of
Prudential’s stock as of July 27, according to regulatory
filings. The U.K.’s biggest insurer has risen 4 percent this
year and is up 22 percent since Lansdowne first disclosed a
short position in April 2010.  It’s been “a tough year,” Ruddock, who worked at Goldman
Sachs and Wertheim & Co. before co-founding Lansdowne, said in a
interview with Bloomberg News published July 27.  Hedge funds  on
average rose 0.76 percent this year through June, according to
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Lansdowne posted its best year in 2007, when the U.K.
Equity fund rose 31 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The fund declined 2.38 percent in 2008, followed by a
26.6 percent gain in 2009 and an 8.62 percent increase last
year.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  