-- 
Manufacturing Weakens From China to U.K. as Global Recovery Loses Momentum

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-08-01T14:22:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/manufacturing-weakens-from-china-to-u-k-as-global-recovery-loses-momentum.html
Manufacturing indexes from  Asia  to
the U.S. to  Europe  fell in July as demand weakened and the
global recovery from recession lost momentum.  U.K., Russian and Australian manufacturing shrank last
month, while the pace of factory growth slowed in Europe and
 China , according to surveys today. An index of U.S.
manufacturing dropped more than economists forecast to a two-
year low, even after the dollar’s 7 percent drop against the
euro this year.  Europe’s debt crisis, U.S. political haggling over the
nation’s debt limit and monetary tightening in China have
combined to restrain the global recovery.  Consumer confidence  is
being undermined by job cuts and government austerity measures,
while manufacturers may also struggle to recover as soaring
commodity prices weigh on margins.  “Manufacturing is slowing and some of these readings are
in recessionary territory,” said  David Owen , chief European
economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in London. “Coming
through a banking crisis, you can’t place much weight on the
consumer so you depend on manufacturers doing well.”  The  U.S. economy  expanded less than economists forecast in
the second quarter as shoppers retrenched. The Institute for
Supply Management’s manufacturing index fell to 50.9 last month
from 55.3 in June, lower than the median estimate of 54.5 in a
Bloomberg News survey of 80 economists. A measure of new orders
fell to 49.2, showing the first contraction since June 2009.  Contractions  The dollar has declined against 15 of 16 currencies tracked
by Bloomberg this year, improving U.S. export competitiveness.
It has fallen about 5 percent against the yen and the pound and
16 percent against the Swiss franc.  It strengthened against the euro today, to $1.4277 versus
the single currency, from $1.4398 on July 29.  In the U.K., a factory gauge by  Markit Economics  fell to
49.1, the lowest since June 2009, from 51.4, and a measure for
 Russia  slipped to 49.8 from 50.6.  Australia ’s index slid to a
two-year low of 43.4 from 52.9. Readings below 50 indicate
contraction.  Europe’s index of manufacturing growth cooled to 50.4, the
slowest pace in 22 months, from 52 in June. China’s purchasing
manufacturing index moderated to 50.7 from 50.9, the China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said, as the faltering
recovery in the U.S. and Europe limited demand for goods from
the world’s second-largest economy.  Margin Pressure  Volkswagen AG, Europe’s largest automaker, said July 28
rising commodity prices and a strengthening euro will damp
earnings gains this year after reporting lower-than-expected
second-quarter profit.  Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the world’s
biggest maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment, a day later
pared its full-year margin target after reporting lower-than-
estimated earnings because of raw-material inflation.  In Europe, “the optimistic interpretation is that the
slowdown still reflects temporary factors” such as debt crises
and the Japanese earthquake, Jens Sondergaard, senior economist
at Nomura International Plc in London, said in a note to
clients. “A more pessimistic interpretation is that today’s
numbers are the first signs that the near-term economic outlook
is significantly worse than our central case.”  Fiscal Squeeze  Markit’s composite index of European manufacturing and
services, published on July 21, fell to 50.8 in July, the lowest
in almost two years, signaling the economic recovery is losing
momentum. Governments from  Greece  to  Spain  have pledged
austerity measures to defend credit ratings and contain
borrowing costs as they tackle rising deficits. That’s
undermining sentiment among consumers at the same time as
companies continue to cut jobs.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest bank, said today it
plans to cut 30,000 jobs by the end of 2013, about 10 percent of
the total, to stem rising costs.  The U.S. is set to reach the limit of its ability to borrow
tomorrow after recording the worst growth performance since the
start of the recovery in June 2009, according to data published
July 29. Congressional leaders agreed on a deal late yesterday
to raise the country’s $14.3 trillion debt limit and slash
 government spending .  The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the
second quarter after growing 0.4 percent in the previous three
months. While  consumer spending  rose just 0.1 percent, exports
were one of the economy’s bright spots, increasing 6 percent.
Dow Chemical Co., the largest U.S. chemical maker, said on July
27 that demand is “strong” in markets abroad.  Global economic growth is also being hampered by rising
commodity prices. Oil prices have risen as much as 40 percent in
the past year, while wheat costs are up as much as 35 percent.  The data today present “the most worrying scenario for
manufacturers,” said Karen Ward, senior global economist at
HSBC Holdings Plc in  London . “Global commodity prices are
placing pressure on consumers and companies. The bright spots
are pretty few and far between.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  