-- 
Apple Lawsuit Puts Samsung Tablet Sales in Australia on Hold

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-08-02T07:46:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/apple-seeks-to-block-samsung-from-selling-tablet-in-australia.html
Apple Inc. won an agreement from
Samsung Electronics Co. that the South Korean company won’t sell
the newest version of its tablet computer in  Australia  until a
patent lawsuit in the country is resolved.  The Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 infringes 10 Apple patents,
including the “look and feel,” and touchscreen technology of
the iPad, Steven Burley, a lawyer for Apple, told  Federal Court 
Justice Annabelle Bennett in Sydney yesterday. The Cupertino,
California-based company sought an Australian injunction and
also wants to stop Samsung from selling the tablet in other
countries, Burley said without specifying where.  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, agreed to stop
advertising the Galaxy Tab 10.1 in Australia and not to sell the
device until it wins court approval or the lawsuit is resolved,
according to an accord reached by lawyers during a break in the
hearing. Should Apple lose its patent infringement lawsuit, it
agreed to pay Samsung damages, which weren’t specified.  The dispute between the companies began in April when Apple
sued Samsung in the U.S., claiming the Galaxy products
“slavishly” imitated the designs and technologies used for its
iPad and iPhone. Samsung, which supplies memory chips for Apple,
retaliated with lawsuits in  South Korea , Japan, Germany and the
U.S.  Imminent Launch  The Australian injunction is necessary because Samsung has
had “announcements of an imminent launch of the  Galaxy Tab 10.1 
device ongoing since July 20,” Burley said before the agreement
was announced.  Apple is basing yesterday’s claim on a U.S. version of the
Galaxy tablet, which is different from the one that will be sold
in Australia, Samsung’s lawyer Neil Murray said.  Samsung had no plans to sell the U.S. version of the Galaxy
tablet in Australia, the company said in an e-mailed statement
today.  The agreement to halt advertising and sale of the Galaxy
Tab 10.1 doesn’t affect any other Samsung tablet or smart phone
available in Australia, or other countries, the company said.  Samsung agreed to provide Apple three samples of the
Australian version of the computer tablet at least seven days
before it planned to start distributing it so the U.S. company
could review it, according to the agreement submitted in court.  Bennett scheduled a hearing for Aug. 29 to review the
status of the case and set a trial date if necessary.  The case is:  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co.
NSD1243/2011. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  