-- 
Buenos Aires Mayor Macri Wins Re-Election in Blow to President Fernandez

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-01T03:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/argentina-s-opposition-leader-macri-wins-buenos-aires-election.html
Buenos Aires  mayor and opposition
leader Mauricio Macri was re-elected yesterday after defeating
in a runoff President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s candidate
three months before she seeks a second term.  Macri had 64.3 percent support with 99.2 percent of polling
stations reporting, compared with 35.8 percent for Senator
Daniel Filmus, the city’s electoral commission reported last
night.  “I don’t promise miracles, I can’t make them, but I do
promise you work, a lot of work with honesty,” said Macri in a
televised speech in Buenos Aires. “I’m very happy with this
victory because it’s the victory of a way to do politics.”  On July 10, Macri fell short of the 50 percent of votes
needed to win the first round, taking 47.1 percent of ballots
followed by 27.8 percent for Filmus.  During Macri’s four years in office, the former president
of the  Club Atletico Boca Juniors  soccer club and son of a
construction tycoon has retained support among the capital’s 2.5
million voters by funding flood prevention works, creating a
city police force, and building 65 kilometers (40 miles) of bike
paths.  “People see Macri as an active person, someone who
accomplishes things and cares about the city,” said Analia del
Franco, a political analyst at Analogias pollster in Buenos
Aires.  Yesterday was the second time the two candidates faced off
for control of  City Hall . Macri, 52, took office in 2007 after
beating Filmus by a margin of 20 percentage points. The 56-year-
old Filmus served as Education Minister for Fernandez’s deceased
husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner .  The vote comes a week after the defeat of another candidate
allied with Fernandez, 58, when the socialist party retained the
governorship of the agricultural province of  Santa Fe . Miguel
del Sel of Macri’s PRO party came second, while the contestant
from Fernandez’s Victory Front, Agustin Rossi, finished third.  Winning Chances  Still, the defeat in Santa Fe and in the city of Buenos
Aires won’t hurt Fernandez’s chances of winning a second term in
Oct. 23 elections, said del Franco.  “When the opposition has triumphs like these it gets
stronger, but it won’t have an impact on the presidential
election,” del Franco said.  South America ’s second-biggest economy is heading for a
ninth straight year of economic growth and will expand 6.3
percent this year, according to the median estimate of seven
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  While inflation ran at 23 percent over the past 12 months
according to private estimates that more than double the
government’s 9.7 percent reading, Fernandez remains popular
among Argentines benefiting from job growth. The  unemployment
rate  fell to 7.4 percent in the first quarter from 8.3 percent
in the same period of 2010.  ‘Economic Stability’  “Even when the economy is not at its peak, people still
see economic stability,” del Franco said.  Fernandez has 49.8 percent support among voters, followed
by Ricardo Alfonsin of the Radical Civic Union party with 10.5
percent, according to a June 22-24 poll by Buenos Aires-based
CEOP Opinion Publica. The survey of 1,426 people has a margin of
error of 2.6 percentage points.  Under Argentine law, a presidential candidate can win the
election and avoid a runoff by receiving more than 45 percent of
the vote, or 40 percent and a 10 percentage-point lead over the
nearest competitor. A second-round runoff, if needed, would take
place Nov. 20.  Macri ruled himself out as a presidential candidate on May
7, when he announced he would seek re-election as mayor. His PRO
party hasn’t said whom it will support in the national vote.  Last night, Macri said he is willing to meet with all
presidential candidates, including President Fernandez, to
listen to their proposals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  