-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Cargill Turkey Recalled on Salmonella

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-08-03T22:50:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/asia-commodity-day-ahead-corn-soybeans-rally-on-u-s-debt-deal.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Cargill Recalls 35.7 Million Pounds of Turkey on Salmonella  Cargill Inc. is recalling 35.7 million pounds of ground
turkey products that may be linked salmonella outbreak that’s
caused one death and sickened more than 70 people in 26 states,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Falls to Three-Week Low as U.S. Rebound May Be Stalling  Copper futures fell to a three-week low on concern that the
economy is stalling in the U.S., the world’s second-biggest user
of the metal.  Glencore Aluminum Smelter Offered Accord by Bonneville Power (1)  The Bonneville Power Administration offered to provide
electricity to run some of the smelting capacity at Glencore
International Plc’s shuttered aluminum smelter in  Montana .  Escondida Union Says Resolution ‘Close’ at Strike-Hit Mine (2)  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida unit in  Chile  is “close” to
resolving a pay dispute with striking workers that has cut
output at the world’s largest copper mine, union officials said.  Commodities Fall for a Sixth Day on Concerns Economy May Slow  Commodities extended the longest slump since May 2010 amid
concerns that the global economy may be slowing down, hurting
demand for raw materials from copper to oil. Gold surged to a
record for a second day.  MINING:  Essar Mulls $3.5 Billion  Zimbabwe  Iron Plant, Will Revamp Mill  A unit of Essar Group said it may spend $3.5 billion on an
iron ore-processing plant in Zimbabwe based on the Mwanesi
deposit after it took over the country’s largest steel mill,
which it plans to rehabilitate.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Rallies to Record as Economic Concerns Spur Investor Demand  Gold futures rose to a record $1,675.90 an ounce on signs
that the U.S. economy is faltering amid debt woes, boosting
demand for the precious metal as an investment haven.  AGRICULTURE:  Cotton Futures Decline on India Export Plan; Orange Juice Falls  Cotton futures declined the most in two weeks on signs of
increasing supplies from India, the world’s second-biggest
grower.  Orange juice  also fell.  Soybean Premiums Rise on Increased Demand; Corn Basis Weaker  Cash premiums for U.S. soybeans shipped in August to export
terminals near  New Orleans  rose relative to Chicago futures on
signs of increased demand. The corn basis declined.  Corn Drops as U.S. Slowdown May Cut Demand; Wheat, Soybeans Fall  Corn fell from a seven-week high on concern that lower
spending by U.S. consumers and companies will reduce grain
demand. Soybeans and wheat also declined.  Sugar Falls as  Russia ’s Imports May Drop; Coffee, Cocoa Decline  Sugar futures dropped to a four-week low as record beet
output in Russia may slash demand for imported sweetener. Coffee
and cocoa fell.  Corn, Soybean Crops Smaller Than USDA Forecast, Linn Group Says  Corn and soybean harvests in the U.S., the world’s largest
grower and exporter, will fall below government forecasts,
according to the Linn Group, a commodity research and brokerage
company.  Hog Prices Fall on Signs of Weakening Pork Demand; Cattle Rise  Hog futures fell to the lowest price in almost two weeks on
speculation that pork demand will slow. Cattle rose.  Canpotex Reaches Six-Month Potash Agreement With  India  (1)  Canpotex Ltd., the export arm of  North America ’s largest
potash producers, reached a six-month agreement to supply India
with the crop nutrient amid rising prices.  SHIPPING:  Baltic Index Has First Gain in Almost a Month on Capesize Rents  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of global shipping costs,
rose for the first time in almost a month as speculation
bookings will increase lifted rents for capesize vessels that
haul iron ore and coal.  ECONOMIES:  U.S. Economy: Services Growth Slowest Since February 2010 (1)  Service industries  expanded in July at the slowest pace in
17 months as orders and employment cooled, indicating the
biggest part of the  U.S. economy  had little spark to begin the
second half of the year.  Distressed Americans Cut Back on Services: Chart of the Day (1)  Spending on services, the biggest part of the U.S. economy,
has barely budged in the two years since the recession ended as
“distressed” households hold the line on everything from
vacations to restaurant visits.  U.S. Treasury Panel Says Credit Downgrade Is Not Imminent (1)  Executives from firms such as JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. who advise the Treasury Department said
a cut in the U.S. credit rating isn’t imminent, according to
minutes of their meeting.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Stocks Advance, Preventing Longest Dow Retreat Since 1978  U.S. stocks advanced, preventing the longest Dow Jones
Industrial Average slump since 1978, amid speculation the
 Federal Reserve  may consider another economic stimulus program
to prevent a recession.  Franc Retreats After Rate Cut; Dollar Declines as Services Slow  The Swiss franc fell against most of its major counterparts
after the central bank unexpectedly cut  interest rates  to weaken
the currency as it strengthened to records and threatened the
nation’s economic recovery.  Oil Falls to Five-Week Low on Concern U.S. Economy Is Slowing  Crude oil  dropped to a five-week low on concern that a
faltering economy will curb demand in the U.S., the world’s
leading consumer.  SPORTS:  India’s Yuvraj, Harbhajan to Miss Rest of  England  Test Series  Batsman  Yuvraj Singh  and bowler  Harbhajan Singh  will miss
the rest of India’s Test cricket series against England with
injuries.  Woods Has 20-1 Odds to Win in Golf Return With McIlroy Favored  Tiger Woods  hasn’t played a full round of tournament golf
in almost four months. That isn’t stopping Las Vegas bettors
from wagering he’ll win for the eighth time at Firestone Country
Club.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 