-- 
Asia’s Economic ‘Soft Patch’ Jars With Inflation, Posing Dilemma on Rates

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-08-01T08:44:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/asia-s-economic-soft-patch-jars-with-inflation-posing-dilemma-on-rates.html
Asian manufacturing is cooling even
as accelerating inflation puts pressure on officials to keep
tightening monetary policy, adding to headwinds for the global
economy after recoveries faltered in the U.S. and  Europe .  Manufacturing in  China , Australia and  Taiwan  weakened in
July, purchasing managers’ indexes released today showed.  South
Korea ’s inflation quickened to the fastest pace since March,
 Thailand ’s held above 4 percent for a fourth month and a gauge
of Australian prices exceeded the central bank’s target ceiling.  Europe’s debt crisis and a struggling U.S. recovery have
cut demand for Asian goods and complicated the task for central
banks in a region that’s enacted the world’s steepest interest-
rate increases since the start of 2010. Failure to keep
tightening would risk exacerbating inflation that’s already
breached or is approaching official targets in many Asia nations.  “We still see a need to continue with the tightening bias
because ultimately, inflation is the dominant concern in
emerging Asia,” said Leif Eskesen, a Singapore-based economist
at HSBC Holdings Plc who previously worked at the  International
Monetary Fund . At the same time, the risk that it “may take a
little longer for global growth to pick up again from the soft
patch we’re seeing” could lead Asian central banks to pause
temporarily, he said.  Price pressures have prompted China,  India  and Thailand to
raise rates in recent weeks, while policy makers in  Malaysia ,
the  Philippines  and  Indonesia  opted to keep borrowing costs
unchanged. China’s consumer price gains quickened in June to the
fastest pace since 2008. In Vietnam, they exceeded 22 percent
last month, the highest in the world after Venezuela.  China Rate Increases  The Purchasing Managers’ Index from the China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing fell to the lowest level since February
2009, while a separate gauge by HSBC contracted for the first
time in a year.  “We believe the July PMI data will not alter the policy
track Beijing has set for” the second half of 2011, said Dong Tao, Hong Kong-based chief regional economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG. “ Interest rates  are likely to rise further, perhaps
up more frequently than the required reserve ratio. In case the
economy slows down more than expected, we think that it would be
fiscal stimulus rather than monetary easing that would come to
the rescue.”  The Australian Industry Group’s manufacturing index was at
the lowest since June 2009 as new orders and exports shrank. It
was the fourth time in five months the index was below 50, the
dividing line between expansion and contraction.  Australia  ‘Headwinds’  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia board meets tomorrow to
decide rate policy, and most economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News predict it will leave the official cash rate unchanged for
an eighth straight meeting.  “The Australian economy is facing an array of headwinds
and the lack of business and consumer confidence is resulting in
a slowdown in activity,” said Savanth Sebastian, a Sydney-based
economist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia . “It is looking
likely that interest rates will remain on hold. Until the data
flow improves the Reserve Bank is unlikely to jump on the
interest rate trigger.”  In South Korea, consumer prices rose 4.7 percent in July
from a year earlier after a 4.4 percent increase in June, the
country’s statistics department said today. The Bank of  Korea ’s
board will meet on Aug. 11 to discuss whether to raise borrowing
costs after a report last month showed that economic growth
slowed in the second quarter on weaker exports.  Thailand’s inflation in July held close to a 32-month high,
with the Bank of Thailand saying last week inflation risks
exceed threats to economic growth. In contrast, Indonesia’s
inflation slowed for a six straight month in July.  Indian Output  A measure of India’s manufacturing output fell to 53.6 in
July from 55.3 in June, according to the Purchasing Managers’
Index compiled by HSBC and Markit Economics. Price gains
prompted the  Reserve Bank of India  on July 26 to increase rates
for the 11th time since the start of 2010.  India’s central bank needs to continue tightening its
monetary policy as inflation is likely to stay at about 9
percent in the months from July to October, C. Rangarajan,
chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said
today. The economy is likely to expand 8.2 percent in the year
ending March 31, slowing from 8.5 percent last year, he said.  Asia  still relies on U.S. and European demand for its goods,
even as Group of 20 nations push to rebalance the world economy
so the region’s growth depends more on domestic demand.  Gross domestic product in the U.S. expanded at a 1.3
percent annual rate in the second quarter, after a 0.4 percent
pace in the prior period, the worst six months since the
recovery began in June 2009, Commerce Department figures showed
last week.  U.S. manufacturing probably expanded in July at a slower
pace, according to the median estimate of 63 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. The Institute for Supply Management’s
manufacturing index is due today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  