-- 
Asian Buyers Target U.S. Hotels as Affluence Increases Travel

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-08-01T16:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/asian-buyers-target-u-s-hotels-as-rising-affluence-boosts-travel-abroad.html
High-end hotels in large U.S. cities
are attracting buyers from  Hong Kong , China and Singapore
seeking to cater to a growing number of affluent Asians
traveling abroad.  Acquisitions by Asian investors probably will climb to the
“low double digits” of all U.S. hotel deals this year, said
John Strauss, a managing director for investment sales at Jones
Lang LaSalle Hotels in Los Angeles. They accounted for about 8
percent in 2010, according to the brokerage. The most recent
transaction came last week, when the family of Hong Kong
billionaire Cheng Yu-Tung purchased five luxury properties,
including  Manhattan ’s Carlyle, for $570 million.  As U.S. hotel investors and operators, including Starwood
Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc., turn to  Asia  for expansion,
buyers from China and other countries in the region with fast-
growing economies are seeking trophy properties in the U.S. to
hedge against inflation and capitalize on a growing and
increasingly mobile Asian middle class.  “It is driven by the combination of the strength of the
Chinese economy and the relative strength of their currency to
the dollar,” Alan Reay, president of Atlas Hospitality Group in
 Irvine ,  California , said in a telephone interview. “They
obviously see the travel industry as a growth industry,
especially with the growing middle class in  China , which is
increasingly traveling to other parts of the world.”  Dallas  Hotels  The Cheng family completed its acquisition of the five
hotels from Maritz, Wolff & Co. and Rosewood Corp. on July 29.
The purchase included Rosewood Inn of the Anasazi in  Santa Fe ,
 New Mexico , and Rosewood Crescent Hotel and Rosewood Mansion on
Turtle Creek, both in Dallas. The other property was Rosewood
Little Dix Bay in the British Virgin Islands.  That deal followed an agreement in June for a unit of New
World Development Co., controlled by the Cheng family, to buy
hotel manager  Rosewood Hotels & Resorts  for $229.5 million from
Los Angeles-based Maritz Wolff and Rosewood Corp. Rosewood
Hotels, based in Dallas, operates 19 properties including the
Carlyle and Rosewood Mansion on Turtle Creek.  Shenzhen New World Group Co., a Chinese property investor,
bought the Sheraton Universal Hotel in  Los Angeles  for $90
million in January, less than a year after paying $63 million
for the Marriott Los Angeles Downtown, according to Jones Lang.  “At a local level, Chinese investors are No. 1, Koreans
are No. 2, but other Asian investors have really stepped things
up,” said James Butler, a partner at  Jeffer Mangels Butler &
Mitchell LLP . The Los Angeles-based law firm formed a Chinese
investment group in July to help hotel investors from that
country make purchases in the U.S.  Explosion of Demand  “This is possibly one of the biggest explosions of demand
from that part of the world I’ve seen in my career,” he said.  The U.S. lodging industry has been improving after the
recession depressed demand in 2009 and 2010. Hotel occupancies
in the top 25 U.S. markets climbed to 65 percent in January
through May from 62 percent a year earlier, according to
Hendersonville, Tennessee-based  Smith Travel Research Inc .  During the real estate boom, hotel prices peaked at about
$153,000 per room in 2006 then plunged 36 percent to a low two
years ago, according to New York-based research company  Real
Capital Analytics Inc.   “There’s been a perception that the U.S. is on sale as a
result of the downturn,” said Strauss of  Jones Lang . “There
will definitely be an increased interest from Asian investors,
particularly in the top three to five U.S. urban markets.”  Economic Growth  China’s economy , the biggest in Asia, is forecast to grow
twice as fast as the entire world this year. It probably will
expand 9.4 percent, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey, compared with the
International Monetary Fund’s projection for 4.3 percent global
growth as  Europe  and the U.S. try to reduce budget deficits.  The Chinese yuan rose 5.2 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
in the 12 months through July, while the Taiwanese dollar jumped
11 percent. The  Thai baht  climbed 8.3 percent, and the  Singapore
dollar  increased 13 percent, the most among major Asian
currencies.  The New World transaction “demonstrates the advantage for
Asian investors willing to use their relatively lower cost of
capital and longer-term investment horizon to acquire strategic
investments here in the U.S.,” Flip Maritz, co-founder of
Maritz Wolff, said in a telephone interview.  The Cheng family also owns the  Beverly Wilshire , a Four
Seasons hotel in  Beverly Hills , California, and once owned a
stake in the  Four Seasons Hotel New York .  Thai Deal  Optasia Capital Co. , a Thailand-based investment bank,
bought the St. Regis Aspen from  Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  for $70 million in September, according to Jones
Lang. St. Giles Hotels LLC last year bought two W Hotels in
Manhattan for $78 million from Starwood. The investor is a
division of London-based St. Giles Hotel Group, part of  Cititel
Hotel Management  of  Kuala Lumpur .  Asian joint ventures with U.S. partners and non-majority
investments also are rising, said Stephen O’Connor, a senior
director at the Los Angeles office of Cushman & Wakefield
Sonnenblick Goldman.  Thayer Lodging Group and Shanghai Jin Jiang International
Hotels Group Co. last year merged with management company
Interstate Hotels & Resorts Inc., and Strategic Hotels &
Resorts, a Chicago-based real estate investment trust, is in a
partnership with GIC Real Estate Pte, the property arm of the
Government of  Singapore  Investment Corp.  “For Asian investors to get invested in the U.S. hotel
space, it may not be just an outright buy but they may partner
up with an existing U.S. group,” O’Connor said. “And often
neither of the parties involved are public. Then these
investments fly under the radar.”  REIT Competition  Asian buyers face competition from U.S. real estate
investment trusts, which also have been on a hotel buying spree,
said Strauss of Jones Lang.  The average purchase price climbed to $192,479 a room in
the second quarter, up more than 25 percent from the 2006 peak,
as luxury-hotel transactions surged, according to Real Capital.
REITs purchased $1.23 billion of hotels in the quarter, 23
percent of all deals, according to the data provider.  “U.S. REITs have been able to raise a significant amount
of low-cost capital at very aggressive pricing,” Strauss said.
“That has mitigated the depth of the Asian buyer pool a bit.”  Luxury hotels such as the Carlyle are particularly
attractive because high-end lodging has had the biggest recovery
from the financial-market crash of late 2008, said Reay of Atlas
Hospitality.  ‘Upswings’ in Luxury  New World Development will “continue to look for strategic
city and exclusive resort destinations in the North American
arena as we continue to see upswings in the luxury hospitality
sector,” Sonia Cheng, chief executive officer of the company’s
New World Hospitality unit, said in an e-mail.  Revenue per available room, an industry measure of
occupancy and rate, climbed 8.7 percent to $57.61 this year
through May across the U.S., according to Smith Travel. At
hotels with the costliest rooms, revpar jumped 12 percent to
$177.30, the firm said.  “Right now REITs are dominant,” said O’Connor. “But
Asian investors have a similar thesis. They have low leverage
and are cash rich. In a way they can compete directly with REITs
as long as low-cost leverage doesn’t come back into the market.
I foresee a lot more of these investments happening in the next
12, 18 to 24 months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  