-- 
Australia Annual TD Inflation Gauge Advances Above RBA Target

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-01T00:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/australia-annual-td-inflation-gauge-advances-above-rba-target.html
A gauge of  Australia ’s annual
inflation rose above the top of the central bank’s target range
in July, driven by higher fruit, vegetable and utility costs.  Consumer prices gained 3.2 percent in the year through July
after a 2.9 percent advance in June, according to an index
compiled by TD Securities Inc. and the Melbourne Institute
released in Sydney today. The central bank aims to keep
inflation in a 2 percent to 3 percent range on average. Prices
rose 0.3 percent from a month earlier after no change in June.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will keep
the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 4.75 percent for an
eighth meeting tomorrow, according to most economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. In the minutes of its July 5 meeting, the
RBA said it had scope to extend the rate pause because risks
posed by  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slower-than-forecast
domestic recovery eased inflation concerns.  “There are considerable offshore headwinds associated with
the U.S. and European sovereign debt issues, threatening the
global economic recovery,” said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-
Pacific research at TD Securities in Singapore. “Closer to
home, declining credit growth and the cautious consumer confirm
that the economy is truly two-speed, overshadowing the ongoing
good news of the private sector investment boom.”  Moody’s Investors Service put Spain’s Aa2 rating on review
for a possible cut on July 29, citing funding pressures. That
followed a similar step for  Italy  on June 17. Ten-year bond
yields for both nations approached euro-era records last week as
the region’s officials failed to convince investors they would
halt the spread of the debt crisis after arranging a so-called
selective default for  Greece .  Factory Slump  In Australia, a gauge of Australian manufacturing released
today slumped to a two-year low in July. Business and consumer
confidence have dropped while inflation accelerated last quarter
to the fastest annual pace in three years, fueled by a mining
boom that has helped drive the currency to a record.  Today’s inflation report showed the price of fruit and
vegetables rose 1.8 percent in July and utilities costs advanced
4 percent. These were offset by falls in auto, visual and
computing, clothing and footwear, and rents, it showed.  “We believe the RBA tomorrow can leave the cash rate
unchanged at 4.75 percent whilst discussing these conflicting
pressures, leaving the stance of monetary policy as ‘mildly
restrictive’ for longer,” Beacher said. “However, as we are of
the view that offshore headwinds will abate, we forecast one
more rate rise this year to 5 percent, and we continue to pencil
in November as the most appropriate month.”  The Melbourne Institute is a research unit of Melbourne
University, and TD Securities is a division of Toronto-Dominion
Bank,  Canada ’s second-largest lender. The monthly inflation
index measures the prices of more than 1,000 goods and services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  