-- 
Auto Sales Stall as Unemployment Puts Peak Out of Reach: Cars

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   J o s h u a   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-08-01T20:13:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/auto-sales-stall-as-unemployment-puts-peak-out-of-reach-cars.html
U.S. auto sales have stalled, casting
doubt on a rebound this year as persistent unemployment and
tighter lending deter buyers.  Light-vehicle deliveries in July, to be released tomorrow,
may have run at an 11.8 million seasonally adjusted annual rate,
the average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That
would trail the 12.5 million rate in the first half.  The  auto industry  may lose 1.5 million in projected sales
in 2011, according to consultant AlixPartners LLP. The economy
isn’t picking up as fast as anticipated, and the drag may
continue beyond this year, AlixPartners said. That may put a
return to average annual sales of 16.8 million vehicles from
2000 to 2007 out of reach. Unemployment reached the highest
level this year in June.  “This curve of unemployment looks like it’s got a lot of
legs,” Mark Wakefield, an AlixPartners director in Southfield,
Michigan, said in a telephone interview. “This is one of the
first recent cycles where demand is not going to go back above
its prior peak, because there are just so many structural things
that are different this time around.”  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  deliveries will drop from a year earlier
through at least August, said  Bob Carter , group vice president
for U.S. sales, citing weak  consumer confidence .  “That’s the most important thing for us, and right now the
consumer doesn’t seem to be that confident about jobs and the
overall economy,” Carter said in a July 27 interview in Cle
Elum, Washington.  Ford’s Forecast  Ford Motor Co. (F)  is sticking with a full-year industrywide
forecast of U.S. sales at 13 million to 13.5 million vehicles.
“We probably feel closer to the bottom end of that,” Chief
Financial Officer  Lewis Booth  told reporters on July 26 when the
company released second-quarter results. The forecast includes
medium- and heavy-duty trucks.  Employers added 18,000 jobs in June, the smallest gain in
nine months, as the U.S.  unemployment rate  rose to 9.2 percent,
the Labor Department said. The Thomson Reuters/University of
 Michigan  index of consumer sentiment fell in July to 63.7, the
weakest since March 2009, three months before the recession
ended.  Analysts are projecting a sales rate for July below the
12.1 million averaged in the second quarter. The pace slowed
from 13.1 million in the three months earlier after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  disrupted production and led to
shortages of parts and finished vehicles.  J.D. Power  & Associates and Citigroup Inc. cut their
estimates for the industry sales rate from earlier in July,
citing a slowdown in deliveries late in the month.  ‘Digging Out’  Toyota, which said May and June would mark the low point of
its inventory following the Japan tsunami, may report a 25
percent decline in deliveries, the average estimate of three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Our market share will begin recovering this month, but it
will be September or maybe October before we’re really growing
again,” Carter said. “We were in too deep a hole, and we’re
still digging out.”  Sales may decline 23 percent at Honda Motor Co., and Nissan
Motor Co. deliveries may be little changed from a year earlier,
according to the average of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “July sales results are unlikely to settle the debate
whether there is deterioration in underlying demand, due to the
persistent lack of vehicle availability at Toyota and Honda,”
Brian Johnson, an analyst at New York-based Barclays Capital,
said in a July 25 research note.  Inventories Fall  Honda at the start of July had 60 percent lower inventories
of Accord sedans and Civic compacts from a year earlier, while
Toyota had 50 percent fewer Camry sedans and Corolla compacts,
Johnson wrote.  Toyota, based in Toyota City, Japan, has said most of its
production in Japan and  North America  will recover by September.
Honda, based in  Tokyo , has said North American output will
return to 100 percent in August for all models except Civic
small cars, the company’s No. 2 selling U.S. model.  Nissan, which reported net income of 85 billion yen ($1.09
billion) in the first quarter ended June 30 that beat analysts’
estimates, increased global production in May and June after a
decline in April, the Yokohama-based company said.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Ford, which said Japan-related parts
shortages caused immaterial production losses, won only limited
market share in part because of tight supply of cars such as
Ford’s Focus and Fiesta, and GM’s Chevrolet Cruze.  ‘What-ifs’  “There is a lot of ‘what-ifs,’” Ford’s Booth told
reporters on the company’s July 26 second-quarter earnings call.
“We honestly couldn’t follow up the increased demand for small
cars during the second quarter because we are flat out on
Fiesta, and we are flat out on Focus.”  Ford, which reported a $2.4 billion profit, may say
deliveries rose 7.6 percent, the average estimate of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Vehicle sales for GM, which
reports second-quarter earnings on Aug. 4, may increase 7
percent, the average of six estimates.  GM rose 39 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $28.07 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Ford advanced 14
cents to $12.35.  Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker majority owned by  Fiat
SpA (F) , may say sales increased 15 percent, the average of four
estimates. Profit was $181 million in the second quarter after
excluding losses from paying back government loans early, Auburn
Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler said July 26.  Inventory Rises  Industrywide vehicle inventory climbed to 54 days’ supply
at the beginning of July, from 49 days in June, according to
J.D. Power. Car inventory started the month at a 43-day supply,
with models such as Toyota’s Prius, Ford’s Focus and Honda’s
Civic below 25 days, J.D. Power said.  Trucks were at 67 days’ supply, Westlake Village,
California-based J.D. Power said in a statement. GM ended June
with 122 days’ supply of Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra
full-size pickups.  Annual pickup sales, which AlixPartners says are about 90
percent correlated to single-family housing starts, may not
exceed 2 million this cycle after totaling more than 3 million
each year from 1999 to 2004, Wakefield said.  “We think there were about a third of those previous
buyers that were the ‘urban cowboy’ type, that have pretty much
left that market and probably aren’t going to return to buying
pickups,” he said.  Home Construction  Construction on single-family homes started at a 453,000
rate in June, less than one-fourth the peak monthly pace in
2006, Commerce Department data show.  Light-vehicle sales climbed to 11.6 million in 2010 from a
27-year low of 10.4 million in 2009.  The U.S. seasonally adjusted annualized rate, or SAAR,
recovered from about 10 million in 2009 to 13 million earlier
this year in an upswing that was “rapid and unsurprisingly
unaccompanied by major labor market improvement,”  Himanshu Patel , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a July 25
research note.  “It would be quite uncharacteristic for the next 3 million
units (or even the next 1-2 million) to occur” without at least
a 2 percentage point reduction in the unemployment rate and
turnaround in housing, said Patel, who is based in New York.  Automakers probably boosted incentive spending by a small
margin during the month, said  Jesse Toprak , vice president of
TrueCar.com, which tracks pricing data. The increases were
“selective” and mainly offered for buyers of trucks and sport-
utility vehicles, as small-car prices have climbed because of
limited supplies, he said.  Truck Inventory  “We’re probably not going to see significant reduction in
truck inventory until the fourth quarter,” said Toprak, who is
based in  Santa Monica ,  California .  Analysts said estimating the July sales rate was more
difficult than other months because the Bureau of Economic
Analysis publishes its seasonal adjustments that apply from July
through the next 12 months later this week. The revised
adjustments are based on sales during the past three years, said
Everette Johnson, a BEA economist in  Washington .  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from July 2010, unadjusted for the difference in selling
days. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted annual rate, or
SAAR, are in millions of vehicles.  July had 26 selling days, one fewer than a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Armstrong in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jarmstrong39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  