-- 
DoubleLine’s Mayberry Denies Planning to Use Downloaded TCW Information

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-08-02T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/mayberry-denies-he-intended-to-use-tcw-information-for-new-firm.html
DoubleLine Capital LP executive
Jeffrey Mayberry, accused by former employer TCW Group Inc. of
trade-secret theft, told jurors he had no plans to use TCW
information he had in his possession for  Jeffrey Gundlach ’s new
firm.  Mayberry testified yesterday he didn’t return a flashdrive
with TCW information, including a mortgage-backed securities
database, that he was asked to hand over on Dec. 4, 2009, the
day he was put on administrative leave with Gundlach and the
others accused of stealing TCW proprietary information and trade
secrets to start a new business to compete with TCW.  “I wanted to have the information to determine whether it
was proper to use that information at a future endeavor,”
Mayberry told jurors in state court in Los Angeles. “If there
was an endeavor.”  Gundlach, 51, was the investment chief at TCW, the Los
Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale. (GLE)  He started DoubleLine in
December 2009, within weeks after TCW fired him. TCW sued
Gundlach a month later, after half their fixed-income
professionals had joined DoubleLine. Gundlach countersued,
saying he was fired so that TCW wouldn’t have to pay him
hundreds of millions of dollars in performance fees.  Mayberry testified that his superior at TCW, Cris  Santa
Ana , who’s also a defendant and counterclaimant in the case,
told him at the time of a Sept. 3, 2009, meeting between
Gundlach and TCW Chief Executive Officer Marc Stern, to start
downloading TCW data. At the meeting, Gundlach expected to be
fired, his lawyer Brad Brian said at the start of the trial.  Opening Statement  Brian said in his July 28 opening statement that Gundlach
and the other former TCW employees didn’t use any TCW business
information that was in their possession because they didn’t
want to get sued and they didn’t need to use it. Brian said they
downloaded TCW information to decide later if they could use it.  Mayberry, who was senior vice president at the mortgage-
backed securities group at TCW, testified under direct
examination by TCW lawyer Steven Madison yesterday. He’s
scheduled to return to the stand today to resume his testimony
and will also be cross-examined by DoubleLine’s lawyers.  Under questioning by Madison, Mayberry said that on Dec. 4,
2009, he was asked about information he had downloaded from TCW
computers, including on that day. When he went to his car with a
TCW investigator to retrieve the flashdrive the company wanted
him to hand over, he didn’t give the investigator the flashdrive
that included the TCW information, he said.  $70 Billion  While he was at TCW, Gundlach managed or oversaw about
$70 billion of the company’s $110 billion in assets, according
to the May 14, 2010, amended cross-complaint.  TCW clients withdrew about $25 billion after Gundlach was
fired Dec. 4, 2009. TCW said in its complaint that Gundlach lied
to its clients in a series of webcasts with them in December
2009 to incite them to join DoubleLine and to malign TCW’s newly
acquired fixed-income management unit, Metropolitan West Asset
Management LLC.  DoubleLine claims TCW clients started withdrawing billions
of dollars immediately after Gundlach was fired and before any
webcasts.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court,  Los Angeles  County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  