-- 
Baht Rises on Speculation Central Bank Will Boost Rates Further

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-08-01T01:50:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/baht-rises-on-speculation-central-bank-will-boost-rates-further.html
Thailand ’s baht gained the most in a
week before a report today that economists predict will show
inflation accelerated at the fastest pace in 34 months, fanning
speculation the central bank will raise borrowing costs.  Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent in July from a year
earlier, the most since September 2008, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey before data due at 10:30 a.m.
local time. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional shares
snapped three days of losses as U.S. President  Barack Obama  said
lawmakers agreed to raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit
before an Aug. 2 deadline.  “A further rate increase means the yield advantage is
accentuated, which may invite further fund inflows,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc.
in  Tokyo . “The U.S. agreement also improves sentiment for risk-
taking, which is generally positive for  Asia ’s emerging-market
currencies.”  The baht advanced 0.3 percent to 29.75 per dollar as of
8:21 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency may appreciate to around 29.50 by the end of this
month, Nishihama said.  The Bank of Thailand has raised its one-day bond repurchase
rate five times this year and signaled more increases are likely
to tame price pressures. Inflation risks exceeded threats to
economic expansion in Southeast Asia’s second-biggest economy,
according to the minutes of a Bank of Thailand meeting held on
July 13. Thailand’s benchmark rate is 3.25 percent, compared
with a maximum 0.25 percent in the U.S. and  Japan .  Government bonds  rose for a third day. The yield on the
5.25 percent notes due May 2014 dropped seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 3.72 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Global investors bought $4.3 billion more
government debt than they sold in July, according to the Thai
Bond Market Association.  The one-year onshore interest-rate swap, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, was unchanged at 3.63
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  