-- 
Berkshire Mortgage Venture Weighs Acquisitions After Hiring Finance Chief

-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-08-01T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/berkshire-mortgage-venture-weighs-acquisitions-after-hiring-finance-chief.html
Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC, the
lender and servicer backed by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , is considering mergers and acquisitions.  “Berkadia is looking to grow, and one of the components of
the strategy is M&A, potentially,” Kelly Davis, a spokeswoman
for Berkadia, said in a July 29 interview. She declined to
comment further. Horsham, Pennsylvania-based Berkadia last week
announced the hiring of a chief financial officer with duties
including “an important role” in M&A.  Berkshire and  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  bought the business
that became Berkadia from bankrupt Capmark Financial Group Inc.
in 2009. Berkadia has announced at least nine hires this year
and financed student housing in Laramie, Wyoming, and a co-op in
 Santa Monica , California. In 2010, it began issuing loans for
inclusion in mortgage bonds. Lenders such as Bank of America
Corp. have scaled back as regulators raise  capital requirements .  “It makes all the sense in the world” to expand by
acquisition, said  Jeff Matthews , author of “Secrets in Plain
Sight: Business and Investing Secrets of Warren Buffett.”
“Banks are still under stress. The Basel III guidelines are
probably going to mean that a lot of financial assets are going
to come on the market.”  The new Berkadia CFO, Randy Jenson, was president and co-
founder of private equity firm Ranch Capital LLC where he spent
nine years overseeing about $2 billion of investments in
financial services, energy and real estate and other industries.
He’s a former chief executive officer of banking and lending at
New York-based Leucadia.  Commercial Real Estate  Buffett, the world’s third-richest man, said in May that
the commercial  property market  was showing signs of strength.
Non-distressed buildings in six major markets have recovered
more than half of their post-peak losses, Moody’s Investors
Service said in a June 22 statement.  “The country’s expanding, the activity is expanding,
households are expanding,” Buffett, 80, said in the May 1
interview. “Prices have been pretty strong if you start looking
at particularly apartment buildings, but even shopping malls.”  Bank of America’s Bruce Thompson, who was promoted to CFO
from chief risk officer this year, said in March that his firm
was a “very active seller” of commercial real estate.
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America, the biggest
U.S. lender, is preparing for the implementation of Basel III
capital standards.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  