-- 
NTP Wins Court Ruling on 7 Patents From Apple, AT&T Cases

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-08-01T16:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/blackberry-foe-ntp-wins-appeals-court-ruling-on-7-patents.html
NTP Inc., the patent licenser that
extracted a $612.5 million settlement from  Research in Motion
Ltd. (RIM)  in a dispute over wireless e-mail technology five years
ago, won an appeals court ruling in a battle over the validity
of its patents as the company sues other smartphone makers.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington   ordered  the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office today to
reconsider findings that invalidated elements of seven NTP
patents, while  upholding  the rejection of an eighth. The seven
patents remain valid and enforceable during the review.  The patents are being used by Arlington, Virginia-based NTP
in infringement lawsuits against companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Verizon Wireless ,  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
Yahoo! Inc. and T-Mobile USA Inc. Those cases had been on hold
pending NTP’s appeal of the patent office findings.  The patents relate to a way to send information, such as e-
mail, through a radio frequency wireless network. The Federal
Circuit ruled that the patent office was “unreasonably broad”
in its definition of “electronic mail message.”  “Because this construction is relevant to many of the
bases for rejection, we remand for further proceedings,” the
three-judge panel ruled in the decision covering seven patents.  RIM Settlement  In a separate ruling on the eighth patent, the court upheld
the patent office’s rejection of validity, saying the patent
wasn’t different enough from one issued to RIM co-Chairman and
co-Chief Executive Officer Michael Lazaridis.  Donald Stout, co-founder of closely held NTP, said he had
no comment on the ruling.  NTP sued RIM in 2001 and won a trial that could have
resulted in a shutdown of the BlackBerry system in the U.S.
After the 2006 settlement, NTP filed more than a dozen
infringement lawsuits in federal court in Norfolk, Virginia.  The appeal involving seven patents is In Re NTP Inc., 2010,
1243, and the appeal involving one patent is 2010-1277, both
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  