-- 
German Stocks Decline for Fifth Day; Metro, Wacker Chemie Shares Lead Drop

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-08-02T16:07:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/bmw-rwe-porsche-fresenius-metro-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks fell for a fifth day,
with the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  extending a four-month low, amid
concern a slowdown in the  U.S. economy  is damping global growth.  Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s biggest retailer, plunged to the lowest
price in two years after saying operating profit dropped as its
Media-Saturn consumer-electronics unit posted the first loss in
at least 20 years.  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  sank 10 percent after
reporting earnings that missed analysts’ estimates.  The DAX lost 2.3 percent to 6,796.75 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in  Frankfurt . The gauge retreated to its lowest level since
March yesterday as a report showed U.S. manufacturing expanded
in July at the slowest pace in two years. The DAX has sunk 9.7
percent from this year’s high on May 2 as investors speculated
that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis would derail the economic
recovery. The broader HDAX Index slumped 2.5 percent today.  “After yesterday’s extremely weak manufacturing data, we
can expect a debate in the coming days or weeks on whether a
recession is imminent in the U.S.,” said Ansgar Krekeler, a
sales analyst at WGZ Bank AG in Dusseldorf. “This is likely to
question analysts’ earnings estimates and to put markets under
pressure.”  Congressional leaders voiced confidence the Senate will
vote today to ratify a U.S. debt-limit compromise that will
avert a default even as it defers decisions on the nation’s
finances to a bipartisan panel. The U.S. deficit deal will add
to a reduction in growth next year of 1.5 percentage points
coming from the expiration of past stimulus programs, according
to economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank
Securities.  U.S. Rating  Both  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service are
weighing whether to cut the U.S.’s credit rating. S&P said last
month that the political impasse has boosted to 50 percent the
chance that it will downgrade the country’s debt from AAA within
three months.  German stocks extended declines after a report showed that
 consumer spending  in the U.S. unexpectedly dropped in June for
the first time in almost two years as a slump in hiring caused
households to retrench. Purchases decreased 0.2 percent, after a
0.1 percent gain in May, Commerce Department figures showed. The
median estimate of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg had
called for a 0.1 percent increase.  European stocks became the first major region to enter a
so-called correction yesterday, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
dropping 10 percent from this year’s highest level as falling
Spanish and Italian bonds showed the debt crisis is spreading.  About 63 percent of companies in the DAX that have reported
earnings since July 11 missed analysts’ estimates for earnings
per share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Metro Falls  Metro declined for a fifth day, plunging 7.5 percent to
34.97 euros, its lowest price since July 2009. The company said
second-quarter net income dropped 9 percent to 40 million euros
($57 million), while analysts in a Bloomberg survey had
estimated 87.8 million euros. Earnings before interest, taxes
and one-off items fell 8 percent to 306 million euros.  Wacker Chemie plummeted 10 percent to 116.45 euros, its
biggest drop since December 2008. Quarterly profit rose to 142.7
million in the second quarter, missing the 152 million-euro
average estimate  of seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , Germany’s biggest
steelmakers, lost 5.2 percent to 28.54 euros and 6.3 percent to
46.86 euros, respectively. Basic-resource companies were among
the worst performers in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
losing 2.6 percent.  Muehlbauer Holding AG & Co. slumped 9 percent to 27.21
euros, its lowest price in nine months. The maker of machines
used to produce smart cards said first-half net earnings fell to
9.3 million euros from 12.6 million euros in the year-earlier
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  