-- 
BNP’s Thio Favors Aussie on China Growth, Won on Rate Rises

-- B y   C h i e n   M i   W o n g
-- 
2011-08-01T06:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/bnp-s-thio-favors-aussie-on-china-growth-won-on-rate-rises.html
Thio Chin Loo, a Singapore-based
senior currency analyst at BNP Paribas SA, talks about the
outlook for Asia-Pacific currencies including the Australian
dollar and the South Korean won in a Bloomberg Television
interview today.  On the Aussie dollar:  “Investors are looking for carry as well as safety. And
with these two combined, the Aussie dollar is a fairly good bet
because the recent  Reserve Bank  of  Australia ’s minutes said the
RBA isn’t quite as dovish as some market players had anticipated.  ”Australia’s economy, which latches on to Chinese growth
quite strongly, should do quite well with  China  not showing
severe signs of slowdown.”  On the Korean won:  “The inflation numbers for  Korea  are looking fairly buoyant
and the Bank of Korea in its recent comments, as well as minutes,
said the risk of the inflation staying elevated remains quite
high.  “So that is a door opener for rate hikes by the Bank of
Korea. It may be one factor that may create some volatility in
Korean bond markets and stocks, and the won should stay above
the 1,050 per dollar mark this week.”  On the  U.S. dollar :  “The market is doing a re-pricing of downgrade risks in the
U.S. and not just a downgrade to AA but potential downgrade to
selective default.  ”If that were to occur, the medium to longer term fortunes
for the U.S. dollar remain very bearish.”  On Asian currencies:  “I think Asian currencies are still likely to stay firm
against the dollar but in the short-term markets are positioning
for short dollar Asian trade. Given the signs of a near-term
liquidity squeeze in the dollar, the dollar could get a bounce
against Asian currencies.  “We still like to long Asian currencies. I think the ones
that have outperformed surprisingly are some of the Southeast
Asian currencies. The  Singapore dollar  and Malaysian ringgit are
doing very well, even the Indonesian rupiah with its high yield.
So I will still stick with those trades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chien Mi Wong in Singapore at 
 cwong303@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 