-- 
BofA Hires JPMorgan’s Johnson to Head Futures, Options Unit

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-08-01T15:30:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/bofa-hires-jpmorgan-s-johnson-to-head-futures-options-unit.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  hired Peter Johnson, head of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s global futures, options
and over-the-counter clearing operations, for a similar role at
the biggest U.S. bank by assets.  Johnson is expected to join Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America in October, the firm said today in a statement.
He will be based in Chicago and report to Denis Manelski, head
of global short-rates trading and Stuart Hendel, head of the
global prime brokerage, the company said.  “Bringing him on board underscores our commitment to the
futures and OTC space at a critical time as the industry
continues to evolve,” Manelski and Hendel said in the
statement. “Peter is a highly regarded industry veteran with a
proven track record.”  Bank of America is bolstering the management ranks of its
prime brokerage, which it gained in the 2009 takeover of Merrill
Lynch & Co. The department oversees hedge fund and other
institutional investor clients, offering  securities lending ,
financing and cash management.  Johnson spent 19 years at New York-based JPMorgan, Bank of
America said. His position at the lender is a new one, said
Kerrie McHugh, a spokeswoman for the firm. Bob Burke and Gonzalo Chocano, co-heads of the global futures and derivatives clearing
services group, will report to Johnson, she said.  Last month, Bank of America hired several senior executives
from competitors for its prime brokerage business in  London ,
including Nomura Holdings Inc.’s Daniel Katz as head of stock
loan and structured marketing for Europe, the  Middle East  and
Africa and Morgan Stanley’s Ross McDougall as head of EMEA stock
loan trading. Hendel joined Bank of America from UBS AG in June.  Globally, Bank of America’s prime brokerage business was
ranked third by hedge funds in a Global Custodian magazine
survey, behind Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley, while
JPMorgan placed sixth. In  Europe , Bank of America ranked No. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 