-- 
Brazil Hits China With Tariffs as Potholes Erode New Silk Road

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-08-01T20:02:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/brazil-hits-china-with-tariffs-as-potholes-erode-new-silk-road.html
The biggest threat to a revolution in
emerging market trade may be the emerging markets themselves as
 Brazil  slaps import curbs on Chinese toys,  Russia  claims  China 
dumps cold-rolled steel and China keeps its currency
undervalued.  Such barriers to commerce are digging potholes in the “New
Silk Road,” the name given by economists to the burgeoning
trade between developing nations that is forecast to be larger
than that among advanced nations by 2015.  The tensions may cause intra-emerging market trade to fall
short of the 10-fold increase that HSBC Holdings Plc sees as the
potential for the next four decades, and thus reduce its role as
a driver of world growth. Trade and other barriers may also take
the “luster” off emerging-market shares, said  Ed Kuczma , who
helps manage about $30 billion at Van Eck Associates in  New
York . Emerging market equities have gained more than double
those in developed economies since the start of 2009.  “Thick borders discourage capital inflows, keep people
trapped in rural poverty and leave economies persistently
underperforming,” said Stephen King, HSBC’s London-based chief
economist and author of “Losing Control: The Emerging Threats
to Western Prosperity.” “Only if they can connect with each
will emerging nations be able to turbo-charge their economic
futures.”  Even with restrictions, the so-called BRIC nations of
Brazil, Russia, India and China are trading increasingly with
each other. Commerce between emerging markets, also known as
South-South trade, could account for 40 percent of world trade
by 2030 from 18 percent currently, according to Standard
Chartered Bank.  Tata in China  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , China’s biggest maker of personal
computers, said May 26 that sales in emerging markets including
India, Brazil and Russia climbed 14 percent in the fourth
quarter.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , India’s largest manufacturer of the
metal, will increase investment in China by 5 percent in 2012 to
maintain market share, Managing Director Hemant Madhusudan
Nerurkar told China Daily in May.  TNK-BP, Russia’s third-biggest oil producer, plans to pay
more than $1 billion for a 45 percent stake in 21 Brazilian oil
and gas tracts, two people with knowledge of the deal said on
July 19. China and Russia have almost completed technical and
commercial talks on a gas supply contract, PetroChina Co.
chairman  Jiang Jiemin  said May 18.  Broader benefits may still take time. Simon Evenett, who
teaches at the University of  St. Gallen  in Switzerland,  found 
that between November 2008 and the start of last month Russia
imposed 138 protectionist measures against fellow BRIC nations.
India took 85 steps, Brazil 52 and China 33. By comparison, the
U.S. imposed a total of 30 measures against the group, he found.  No Fraternity?  “There’s not much evidence of a BRIC fraternity,” said
Evenett, noting that the four BRIC nations were among the eight
most protectionist in the Group of 20. Russia, which is still
lobbying for membership of the  World Trade Organization , was No.
1. China, Brazil and India are WTO members.  The annual competitiveness report of the Geneva-based  World
Economic Forum  shows that each of the BRIC nations has higher
average trade tariffs than at least 110 other countries,
including Nigeria and the Kyrgyz Republic. Tariff rates in 2009
ranged from Russia’s 11.6 percent to India’s 14.4 percent.  Reducing barriers to trade would reinforce the so-called
New Silk Road, a modernization of the name given to the 4,000-
mile (6,435-kilometer)  network  of trade routes crisscrossing
Asia, southern Europe and North Africa starting 2,000 years ago.
Once traveled by Marco Polo, the route helped promote the growth
of civilizations from Egypt to Rome.  Biggest Trader  Its new iteration refers to growing trade links between
emerging markets that Citigroup Inc. economists Willem Buiter
and Ebrahim Rahbari predict will power an increase in worldwide
trade in goods and services to $149 trillion in 2030 from $37
trillion in 2010. They estimate that China will usurp the U.S.
as the world’s biggest trader within four years.  By 2015, they said, commerce between emerging markets will
overtake that within advanced economies and by 2030 that between
developed and developing nations. The projections may not be met
should free trade fail to take hold, Buiter and Rahbari said in
a June 22 report.  While Kuczma of Van Eck identified port operators  DP World
Ltd. (DPW)  of Dubai and Sao Paulo-based  Santos Brasil Participacoes SA (STBP3) 
as standing to benefit from growing trade links between emerging
markets, fettered markets may still “take the luster off the
emerging market growth story,” he said.  “A sound, stable and well-defined open trade policy goes a
long way to instilling investor confidence in emerging
markets,” said Kuczma, whose title is emerging-markets analyst.  Building Material  The longer BRIC nations take to drop trade barriers and
controls on capital and credit, the slower the gains for
potential beneficiaries. Credit Suisse Group AG’s private
banking division identified logistic companies, delivery
services, building material manufacturers and port developers as
winners from more open trade.  Among them: Hong Kong-based container lessor  Cosco Pacific
Ltd. (1199) , Germany’s  Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  and building-material supplier
 Lafarge SA (LG)  of France, the manager of about $1.5 trillion said in
a January report.  At the same time, the friction continues. Brazil in
December raised to 35 percent from 20 percent a duty on imported
toys after local manufacturers complained they were being harmed
by a flood of cheap, Chinese-made goods.  Complaints from Brazilian unions and industry groups,
including textile producers, have led its government to enact 30
anti-dumping measures aimed at Chinese-made goods, more than
those against any other country and almost four times more than
directed at the U.S., according to the  Trade Ministry .  Glass Fiber  China was the target of a May 30 announcement that India
had started an anti-dumping probe on grinding steel balls. The
same month, India imposed anti-dumping duties on “certain
rubber chemical” imports from countries including China.  Brazilian aircraft-maker  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  failed to get China’s
government to approve final assembly of its E-190 aircraft in
China because of concerns it would compete with a domestic
regional jet, Chief Executive Officer Frederico Curado said in
April. Similarly, Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh pushed
Chinese President Hu Jintao in April to boost imports of Indian
information technology and pharmaceutical products.  Russia, meanwhile, in February began an anti-dumping probe
into cold rolled steel with polymer coating imported from China
after complaints from steelmakers. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin
says Russia is free to keep introducing import restrictions
until it joins the WTO.  Yuan Strength  Another source of tension: China’s policy of limiting the
yuan’s value to support its manufacturers in the global
marketplace. Echoing complaints from the U.S., researchers at
the  Reserve Bank  of India wrote in an April report that China’s
exchange rate policy “invariably and distinctly provides
competitive advantage over its trade competitors.”  While the dollar has dropped about 5 percent against the
yuan since the start of 2010, the Brazilian real has risen 5
percent against the Chinese currency and India’s rupee has
fallen just 1 percent.  The yuan policy has drawn fire from Brazilian Finance
Minister Guido Mantega, who last week reiterated that Brazil
would defend itself from any “currency war” prompted by
nations seeking to boost exports through lower exchange rates.  Growing Anyway  “Emerging market authorities are reluctant to allow
exchange rates to move to market levels and that is part of the
protectionist phenomenon,” said John-Paul Smith, an emerging-
market strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London .  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management in
London and creator of the BRIC description, said the push will
remain toward free trade, noting that commerce has surged in the
past decade even with restrictions in place. Investors should
buy into that trend even if the current regulatory climate irks
them, he said.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has risen 102 percent since
the start of 2009, compared with the 41 percent gain in the  MSCI
World (MXWO)  Index of 24 developed markets.  “You can wait for the uncertainty to clear, but by the time
you do it’s probably going to be too late” to profit, said
O’Neill. “Acknowledging the powers of free trade for these
countries is inevitable. It’s just a matter of time before they
grow up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  