-- 
Brazil Rate Yields Fall Most Since May on U.S. Growth Concern

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-08-01T22:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/brazil-rate-yields-fall-most-since-may-on-u-s-growth-concern.html
Yields on longer-term Brazilian
interest-rate futures contracts fell by the most since May as
investors anticipated slower economic growth in the world’s
biggest economy.  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
2021 fell 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 12.44
percent. The yield last fell 12 basis points during intraday
trading on May 9. The real weakened 1.1 percent to 1.5661 per
dollar at 5 p.m.  New York  time, from 1.5493 on July 29.  A rally in Treasuries sent 10-year yields to the lowest
level since November after data showed U.S. manufacturing
weakened to a two-year low. The world’s biggest economy expanded
at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the second quarter, less than
forecast, Commerce Department figures showed last week.  “We’re talking about a revision of U.S. growth prospects
being priced in and that affects the long-end of  Brazil ,  Latin
America  more generally,”  Roberto Melzi , a Latin America
strategist at Barclays Capital Inc, said in a telephone
interview from New York.  “There’s a big reassessment here.”  U.S. manufacturing expanded in July at the slowest pace in
two years as new orders shrank and production eased. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell more than
forecast to 50.9 last month from 55.3 in June, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. Figures greater than 50 signal
expansion.  The central bank said it twice bought dollars in the spot
market today first at 1.5598 reais and then at 1.5603 each.
Purchasing the U.S. currency is part of policy makers’ efforts
to curb the real’s gains  “We’re back into sort of a little bit more risk-off right
now, between ongoing risks and weak economic data,”  Win Thin ,
global head of emerging-markets currency strategy at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co., said by phone. The U.S. manufacturing
data “is a concern. We had a terribly weak GDP number for the
U.S. on Friday, so that’s still out there,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  