-- 
Capital One’s ING Deal Opposed on ‘Too-Big-to-Fail’ Grounds

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-08-01T20:28:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/capital-one-s-ing-deal-opposed-on-too-big-to-fail-grounds.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ’s
purchase of ING Direct USA should be stopped as it would create
another bank whose collapse may imperil the financial system,
according to the National Community Reinvestment Coalition.  “We already have four too-big-to-fail banks, why make a
fifth?”  John Taylor , chief executive officer of the Washington-
based advocacy group, said today in a  statement . The
organization said it asked the  Federal Reserve  to hold hearings
and extend the public comment period on the $9 billion
acquisition, which would make McLean, Virginia-based Capital One
the sixth-biggest U.S. bank by deposits, up from seventh.  The NCRC said it filed a complaint with the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development, accusing Capital One of
violating fair-lending laws. The company’s practices have denied
homeownership to “lower- and moderate-income borrowers,”
Taylor said in a telephone interview.  “It isn’t a matter of capacity of loans, it’s a matter of
willingness,” Taylor said. “They’re going to be a significant
player. Do they deserve to be able to get bigger?”  Pam Girardo, a Capital One spokeswoman, said the bank is
“fully committed” to fair-lending practices.  “We have a range of programs and partnerships intended to
facilitate lending and homeownership opportunities for genuinely
qualified buyers,” Girardo said in an e-mailed statement.  $80 Billion  The lender, led by Chairman and CEO Richard Fairbank, 60,
sold $5 billion in debt and equity last month after agreeing to
buy the biggest online U.S. bank from Amsterdam-based  ING Groep
NV. (INGA)  Capital One, which said it expects to complete the deal late
this year or in early 2012, would gain about  $80 billion  of
deposits and 7 million customers.  ING’s Carolien van der Giessen declined to comment.  Capital One, which gets more than 60 percent of its revenue
from credit-card lending, was among 19 banks to submit capital
plans to U.S. regulators for approval in January. The firm has
more than $50 billion in assets, subjecting it to additional
stress testing even without owning ING Direct.  “It is a concern from a shareholder perspective,”  Michael Taiano , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York ,
said today in a phone interview. “Are they getting bigger at a
time when it’s not viewed favorably to be bigger in the minds of
the bank regulators?”  Taiano has a “hold” rating on Capital One, which fell 68
cents, or 1.4 percent, to $47.12 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 11 percent
this year, making Capital One the top performer of 2011 in the
24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  