-- 
Cargill Bonus Plans Too Restrictive, Stifle Competition, Ex-Trader Claims

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-08-01T04:32:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/cargill-bonus-plan-limits-stifle-competition-ex-trader-claims-in-lawsuit.html
Cargill  Inc., the biggest
agricultural company in the U.S., broke Singapore’s public
policy rules with bonus plan restrictions that were too broad
and stifled competition, a former trader claimed in a lawsuit.  Vikrant Mano Singh sought to recover $1.74 million in
deferred bonuses that he lost after he quit Cargill’s trade and
structured finance unit in Singapore in November 2008. A closed
hearing on the lawsuit filed in Singapore High Court is
scheduled for tomorrow.  Cargill, based in Minneapolis,  Minnesota , forbade some
staff that left from continuing a career within the financial or
commodity trading industries for two years, including at
companies that compete with Cargill for employees, clients or
market share, according to court papers. The “extremely wide”
clauses were unrestricted in geography and amount to a restraint
of trade, Singh said in the lawsuit.  Singh said in court papers he was entitled to the bonus
“as a result of my enterprise, hard work and more importantly
exceptionally good results coming from my performance.”  The former trader should return $1.86 million he received
in bonuses because he broke the terms of his contract by setting
up Xangbo, a competitor, while still employed, Cargill said in
court papers. Cargill also has demanded that Singh return
confidential information he took from the firm, according to the
court papers.  Deferred Bonuses  Former employees didn’t have to comply with the two-year
non-competition clause if they gave up their deferred bonuses,
Cargill said.  Singh said he had developed Cargill’s strategy for  China 
and other countries in Asia Pacific outside  India ,  Indonesia ,
 Malaysia  and the Philippines, according to his lawsuit, a claim
denied by Cargill.  The trader, who moved to Singapore in 2003 from Minnesota,
was under a deferred bonus scheme where half of his bonus would
be paid out in cash and the rest over three years, according to
the court papers. Singh was last paid an annual salary of
S$325,000 ($270,000) and a bonus of $3.2 million.  Philip Jeyaretnam,  who represents Singh, and Cargill’s
lawyer  Blossom Hing , declined to comment because the litigation
is ongoing.  The case is Mano Vikrant Singh v Cargill TSF Asia Pte Ltd.
OS103/2011 in the  Singapore  High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  