-- 
McGraw-Hill Breakup Valuation May Be as High as $70 a Share, Lazard Says

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-08-02T20:27:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/mcgraw-hill-holder-jana-partners-boosts-stake-holds-talks-with-management.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. may accelerate its
plan to spin off businesses, under pressure from hedge fund Jana
Partners LLC, which bought a stake in the textbook publisher and
owner of  Standard & Poor’s .  McGraw-Hill’s breakup value would be about $55 a share,
according to analysts at Lazard Capital Markets and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. That’s 33 percent more than the company’s $41.41
closing price yesterday on the  New York  Stock Exchange. McGraw-
Hill rose $3.02, or 7.3 percent, to $44.43 at 4 p.m. today, the
biggest advance since September 2009.  McGraw-Hill held talks with Jana Partners to discuss
corporate structure and future plans, the hedge fund said late
yesterday in a filing. Spinning off the education business, in
which revenue has dropped the past three quarters, will create
value, said Basu Mullick, manager of the $2.37 billion Neuberger
Berman Partners Fund, which holds McGraw-Hill shares.  “Ás patient, long-term shareholders, we see that inherent
value,” Mullick said. “What’s not clear is if management is
willing to act on it.”  Chief Executive Officer Terry McGraw said last week that
the New York-based company is conducting a strategic portfolio
review. In June, McGraw-Hill said it planned to sell its
broadcasting group and hired Morgan Stanley to find a buyer.  McGraw-Hill was the best-performing stock today in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Meeting Next Week  Jana Partners, which manages about $3 billion, holds a 5.2
percent stake in McGraw-Hill, together with the  Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan , according to the filing. Charles Penner,
a spokesman for the fund, declined to comment, as did  Deborah Allan , a spokeswoman for the  pension plan .  Jana, based in New York, and Ontario Teachers are scheduled
to meet with McGraw-Hill executives next week, said two people
with knowledge of the matter. Barry Rosenstein, Jana’s managing
partner; Bill Royan, a vice president at Ontario Teachers; and
Terry McGraw, plan to attend the meeting, the people said.  It would be the second meeting for Rosenstein and McGraw,
who also met last month, the people said. Rosenstein discussed
changing the company’s business mix in general and didn’t push
for specific changes, the people said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is advising the company on the
portfolio review and its dealings with Jana Partners, said the
people.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment.  ‘Significant Actions’  McGraw-Hill told employees about Jana Partners’ stake in an
e-mail last night, Patti Rockenwagner, a spokeswoman for the
publisher, said today.  “We realize this news has the potential to cause a certain
amount of distraction, but as McGraw-Hill employees, the best
thing we can all do is continue to work hard,” the company said
in the e-mail.  McGraw-Hill expects “additional significant actions in
2011” as part of the review, spokesman Jason Feuchtwanger said
in an e-mail yesterday. The process is “designed to unlock
superior  shareholder value ,” he said.  McGraw-Hill’s financial units buoyed earnings in the second
quarter, offsetting the drop in education sales. Net income
climbed to $211.1 million, or 68 cents a share, from $191.1
million, or 61 cents, a year earlier. Sales at S&P, the world’s
largest bond rater, rose 19 percent to $480.3 million, while
education revenue fell 5 percent to $536.6 million.  “This is a company that has been a mini-conglomerate of
information database businesses, none of which are all that
related,” said Douglas Arthur, an analyst at Evercore Partners
Inc. in New York. “The education business is capital intensive,
low margin and plodding in growth.”  McGraw Stake  McGraw, who has been chief executive since 1998, may be
able to resist Jana Partners’ requests, Arthur said. He owns 4
percent of the company, worth about $493 million as of
yesterday’s close, according to a regulatory filing.  “It’s going to take more than 5 percent to push the
management around,” Arthur said. Having a portfolio of different
businesses can cushion weakness in one unit, he said.  Chuck Freadhoff , a spokesman for Los Angeles-based Capital
Group Cos., McGraw-Hill’s largest shareholder, declined to
comment, saying the firm doesn’t discuss individual holdings.
The company has a 12 percent stake, according to Bloomberg data.  Based on the value of each of its units, McGraw-Hill could
be worth $55.04 a share, JPMorgan analyst Michael Meltz wrote
yesterday in a note. “Management could consider selling/spinning
its Education segment,” he said.  $70 a Share  William Bird, an analyst at Lazard, put the breakup value
at about $55 a share in a note yesterday. The value could climb
to $70 if the McGraw-Hill buys back stock and sells businesses
at a premium, he said. At $70, the company would be valued at
$21.1 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  McGraw-Hill,  founded  in 1888 by McGraw’s great-grandfather,
James H. McGraw, climbed as high as $71.96 in 2007, before the
credit-market seizure cut demand for S&P’s ratings.  Jana Partners has a history of pressuring companies that
then make changes. In 2008, a group of investors led by the fund
called for Cnet Networks Inc. to replace board members, two
months before CBS Corp. agreed to buy the news provider at a 45
percent premium to its share price.  On May 16, Jana said in a regulatory filing it increased
its stake in El Paso Corp. to about 4 percent. Eight days later,
the natural-gas pipeline company said it would spin off its
exploration and production unit.  Activist investors sometimes benefit from plans that are
already in the works, said Robert Chapman, founder of hedge fund
Chapman Capital LLC in  Manhattan Beach ,  California .  “The most time- and cost-effective activism is that
initiated long after the target itself determined to pursue a
strategic change,” Chapman said yesterday in an e-mail. “When
done right, it’s like standing outside at 5 a.m. and demanding
the sun to rise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  