-- 
Charm Profit May Gain 25%, CFO Says, Citing Estimates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-01T03:16:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/charm-profit-may-gain-25-cfo-says-citing-estimates-correct-.html
(Corrects source of growth estimate in headline and second
paragraph of story originally published July 29.)  Charm Communications Inc. (CHRM) , a Chinese
advertising agent whose clients include General Motors Co. and
Bank of  China  Ltd., may post a 25 percent gain in profit this
year as ad spending grows in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Total advertising spending in China will in the long-run
increase at about 1.5-times the rate of economic growth, Chief
Financial Officer Wei Zhou said in an interview from the
company’s offices in Beijing.  China’s economy  grew 9.5 percent
in the second quarter, for which period Charm posted a 30
percent gain in net income. Annual 2011 profit may rise 20
percent to 25 percent, Zhou said yesterday, citing estimates by
analysts he didn’t identify. Charm doesn’t provide its own full-
year profit forecasts, Zhou said.  “We have been able to outperform the overall market by
winning new customers and getting additional advertising
spending from existing customers,” Zhou said. “We have been
expanding our digital service capabilities, with increased
spending on online video and search portals.” The company’s
2010 profit more than doubled from 2009.  Charm, which helps clients place ads in domestic media
including state broadcaster  China Central Television , last month
bought a 60 percent stake in Chinese search-engine marketing
company ClickPro to bolster its online advertising business. The
internet may surpass newspapers next year to become the second-
biggest recipient of advertising spending in China after
television, Zhou said.  China is the world’s biggest internet market by users with
more than 480 million, the  China Internet Network Information
Center  said in a report this month.  Charm’s American depositary receipts have gained 17 percent
in Nasdaq stock market trading this year, compared with 4.3
percent increase for the Nasdaq Composite Index.  --Penny Peng. Editors: John Liu, Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Penny Peng in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7719 or
 ppeng18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  