-- 
Chef Keller’s Pop-Up Restaurant at Harrods to Serve $400 Lunch

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-08-01T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/chef-keller-s-pop-up-restaurant-at-harrods-to-serve-400-lunch.html
Thomas Keller , the U.S. chef who
holds seven Michelin stars, plans to create a pop-up version of
his French Laundry restaurant at Harrods in London serving a 250
pound ($400), nine-course menu for lunch and dinner.  Keller, 55, will bring 14 staff members from the
Yountville,  California , original for the 10-day event, which
starts on Oct. 1. The French Laundry at Harrods will be housed
on the fourth floor of the Knightsbridge department store.  “Keller aims to recreate the French Laundry as faithfully
as possible at Harrods and the temporary structure’s interior
will be in keeping with the design ethos of the original
restaurant, with fixtures, fittings and signature dinnerware
flown over,” Harrods said today in an e-mailed release.  He follows other U.S. chefs into  London . His friend  Daniel Boulud  opened Bar Boulud at the Mandarin Oriental last year.
(Keller earlier held talks with the hotel about putting a
version of his Bouchon brasserie into that space.) Wolfgang Puck
is scheduled to open his steak restaurant CUT at the  Dorchester
Collection’s  new  45 Park Lane  hotel on Sept. 1.  “Our collaboration is set to be the pinnacle in a year
that will witness a number of exciting new restaurant launches
and rejuvenations here at Harrods,” Paul Goodale, director of
restaurants, said in the release. He didn’t elaborate.  The 250 pound cost will raise a few eyebrows. London has
two restaurants with three Michelin stars:  Alain Ducasse  at the
Dorchester, where the top-priced menu is  180 pounds for seven
courses ; and  Gordon Ramsay , where it’s  130 pounds for seven
courses . The  Chef’s Tasting Menu  on the French Laundry website
is $270.  Revenue Estimate  The Harrods venue will seat 70, which equates to 35,000
pounds a day for food (including tax) if all the places are
filled just once each for lunch and dinner.  “Crafted by Keller, based on his favorite ingredients, the
menu will represent the very best of the French Laundry,
including many dishes that have become classics in the U.S., as
well as new creations for the U.K.,” the release said.  Booking opens on Sept. 1. The pop-up at Harrods follows the
success of a temporary venue in 2009 at Selfridges, where Pierre Koffmann’s rooftop restaurant attracted thousands of diners.  “The most important thing is that you represent the kind
of thing you do at home,” Keller told Bloomberg in April.
“Whether it’s Thomas Keller or whoever coming over to do
something temporary, your first expectation is that you’re going
to recreate what you do at home in a significant way.”  His New York restaurant Per Se, like the French Laundry,
holds three Michelin stars. The  tasting menus at Per Se  are
$295, including service. Another Keller restaurant, Bouchon, in
Yountville, has a Michelin star.  Keller, who first visited the U.K. in 1999, said he was
impressed with the London restaurant scene and the emergence of
a new generation of chefs that can be traced back to Albert and
Michel Roux, founders of Le Gavroche.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 