-- 
China’s July Home Prices Rise at Slowest in 11 Months on Government Curbs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-01T08:22:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/china-s-july-home-prices-rise-at-slowest-in-11-months-on-government-curbs.html
China’s  home prices  rose at the
slowest pace in 11 months in July after the government expanded
efforts to curb the risk of an asset bubble, according to  SouFun
Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)   Home prices gained 0.2 percent in July from June, the
slowest since August last year. Residential prices increased in
66 out of 100 cities tracked by the nation’s biggest real-estate
website owner, with average home values nationwide climbing to
8,874 yuan ($1,378) a square meter (10.76 square feet), SouFun
said on its website today.  China’s cabinet said last month it will expand measures to
rein in residential prices to smaller cities after limiting home
purchases in metropolitan areas including Beijing and Shanghai.
The government is intensifying real-estate restrictions
nationwide after developers posted gains in first-half sales and
housing transactions climbed 31 percent in June, even as down
payments on some mortgages were increased this year.  “ China ’s  property market  is cooling down gradually, but
it’s still not obvious,” said Peter Bai Hongwei, a Beijing-
based property analyst at China International Capital Corp., the
country’s biggest investment bank. “This is a matter of time.
With high inflation and investment, it’s unlikely home prices
will drop soon.”  Home prices in July rose 6.8 percent from a year ago. The
central Chinese city of Yichang posted a 1.9 percent gain from
June, the biggest advance, while the eastern city of Suqian
posted the largest decline of 2 percent among the 100 cities
surveyed, SouFun said. Home prices in Shanghai rose 0.4 percent
and Beijing 0.1 percent last month from June.  Rising Inflation  A gauge tracking property shares on the  Shanghai  Composite
Index rose 1 percent, the best performer among the five industry
groups on the benchmark, at the 3 p.m. local time close,
extending this year’s gain to 2.8 percent.  New home prices in Beijing fell to the lowest last month
since April 2010, when the government introduced the first round
of measures to crack down on the market, China Securities
Journal reported today, citing the local property transaction
bureau, which uses a different statistics system to SouFun.  China’s consumer price index hit a three year high in June
while investment in real estate rose 33 percent to 2.6 trillion
yuan in the first six months from a year earlier, according to
the national statistics bureau.  Nationwide Restrictions  Nationwide purchase restrictions may damp local economies,
said Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  “The one-size-fits-all rule may not have as good an effect
as expected because local governments still highly rely on land
sales for revenue,” Liu said in a phone interview.  China’s financial center Shanghai said last week that it
will step up inspections on the pricing of new homes to ensure
that they aren’t set at “unreasonably” high prices, in
response to the central government’s order.  “The property market in China is headed for a big bust,”
 Puru Saxena , chief executive officer of Puru Saxena  Wealth
Management  in  Hong Kong , told Bloomberg Television on July 25,
citing excess capacity and empty condos. “I suspect over the
next 18 months to two years, we’ll see a significant decline in
Chinese real estate prices.”  June new home prices rose in all but three of the 70
Chinese cities monitored by the government. The government’s
indexes of new and existing homes for July are due on Aug 18.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Malcolm Scott  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  