-- 
China Manufacturing Exceeds Estimates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-01T01:12:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/china-s-manufacturing-growth-exceeds-estimates-withstanding-higher-rates.html
A Chinese manufacturing index was 
higher than economists estimated in July, signaling the world’s
second-biggest economy is withstanding higher  interest rates  and
tightened credit.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 50.7 for July
compared with 50.9 in June, the  China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing  said in a statement today. That was more than
every forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 13 economists. The
median estimate was for a reading of 50.2.  Today’s data may ease concerns that Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s
campaign to tame consumer and property prices will trigger a
deeper slowdown that limits the nation’s contribution to global 
growth. The government needs to sustain domestic demand as a 
sluggish U.S. recovery and a sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  
cap export demand.  “Growth is moderating as earlier tightening policies are
biting,” Chang Jian, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in  Hong
Kong , said before the report. “But full-year expansion of
around 9 percent remains achievable given the support from
investment and consumption in the second half.”  A reading above 50 indicates an expansion. Apart from 2009,
the index has declined each July since the series was first
published in January 2005, previously released data shows. The
gauge is based on a survey of purchasing managers in more than
820 companies in 20 industries and last dropped below 50 in
February 2009.  Price Gains  China ’s economy is slowing after the government raised
interest rates, curbed lending, and limited home purchases and
property development to rein in inflation that’s exceeded the
government’s 4 percent ceiling every month this year.  Consumer prices climbed 6.4 percent in June, the most in
three years, driven by a 14 percent gain in food costs. Economic
growth slowed to 9.5 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier from a 9.7 percent increase in the first three months.  For the full year, expansion will moderate to 9.6 percent
from 10.3 percent in 2010, the  International Monetary Fund 
forecast in a July 21 report.  While the economy “remains on a solid footing,” it faces
risks including the threat of faster-than-expected inflation, a
real-estate bubble and bad loans from stimulus spending, the
Washington-based lender said.  Ahead of today’s data, Credit Suisse AG said investors
shouldn’t be overly concerned by any weakening in the
manufacturing index.  “Solid consumption, helped by wage growth and tax cuts,
should help keep the economy from a hard-landing,” Tao Dong, a
Hong Kong-based economist at Credit Suisse said in a July 21
note.  Industrial output growth of 13 to 15 percent is possible
for the rest of the year even as companies face pressure from
rising raw material, energy and labor costs,  Zhu Hongren ,
spokesman for the Ministry of Industry and  Information
Technology  said at a briefing on July 21.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore .
Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  