-- 
China Money Rate Falls, Snapping 2-Day Gain, as Shortage Eases

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-08-01T09:15:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/china-money-rate-falls-snapping-2-day-gain-as-shortage-eases.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
declined, snapping a two-day advance, on speculation a cash
shortage is easing.  The People’s Bank of China added funds to the market for a
second straight week, injecting a net 32 billion yuan ($5
billion) last week, compared with 19 billion yuan in the five
days through July 22, Bloomberg data showed. China should use
monetary policy less frequently and take a wait-and-see approach
to prevent an over-tightening of the economy, the China
Securities Journal reported, citing Fan Jianping, chief
economist at the State Information Center.  “Modest declines in money-market rates reflect gradual
improvement in liquidity coming from foreign-exchange
intervention” as well as open-market operations, said Dariusz Kowalczyk, Hong Kong-based senior strategist at Credit Agricole
CIB. “The fall in rates will continue.”  The seven-day repurchase rate fell nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 5.01 percent as of 5:08 p.m. in
 Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  China’s finance ministry sold all of the 22.66 billion yuan
of three-year bonds it offered at an auction today at an average
yield of 4.07 percent, according to a trader at a  finance
company  that participates in government debt auctions.  The ministry sold the debt to raise funds for local
governments and, unlike at last month’s auction of similar-
maturity three-year notes, brought in the targeted amount. The
July 11 sale saw 23.9 billion yuan of bonds issued at a yield of
3.93 percent, short of the 25 billion yuan goal.  Swaps Reverse Decline  Swap rates reversed an earlier decline after data showed
the nation’s manufacturing slowed less than forecast in July.
The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 50.7 compared with 50.9 in
June, the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said on
its website today. That exceeded the 50.2 median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The one-year interest rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose three basis
points to 4.20 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 