-- 
China Mobile Reduces Roaming Fees by Up to 80% to Boost Usage

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-08-01T08:59:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/china-mobile-cuts-international-roaming-fees-from-today.html
China Mobile Communications Corp.,
the country’s biggest wireless carrier, cut international
roaming fees by as much as 80 percent to encourage subscribers
to use their phones more on trips outside the nation.  Charges for users traveling to 38 countries, including the
U.K.,  France  and  Australia , will be reduced starting today, the
company said in an e-mailed statement today. The cuts will help
stimulate network usage, according to the statement.  China Mobile faces increased competition as smaller rivals
including China Telecom Corp. upgrade their third-generation, or
3G, networks and offer more advanced handsets. Growth in the
Chinese economy, the world’s second biggest, is boosting
overseas business travel and tourism.  The cuts will help China Mobile retain its “mid- to high-
end customers,” the company said. The move will be “beneficial
for long-term profitability,” it said.  Subscribers who are using non-voice services on the network
of Canada’s Rogers Communications Inc. on their travels are
entitled to an 80 percent fee-reduction, China Mobile said. Rate
cuts for phone use in countries including the U.K., France,
 Germany  and Italy exceed 50 percent, the Beijing-based carrier
said.  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the Hong Kong-listed unit of China
Mobile Communications, fell 0.1 percent to HK$77.45 at the 4 p.m.
close. The stock has gained 0.3 percent this year,
underperforming shares of Chinese carrier rivals China Telecom
and China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd.  The latest cuts in roaming fees follow similar reductions
in January, China Mobile said. In May, the carrier cut domestic
call rates for some users by at least 15 percent.  China Mobile had 616.8 million users at the end of June,
after adding 5.6 million in the month, according to company data.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  