-- 
China Sets Solar Power Price to Boost Profits, Investment

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-01T07:49:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/chinese-government-sets-nationwide-solar-photovoltaic-power-on-grid-prices.html
China , the world’s biggest polluter,
set a price for electricity supplied by photovoltaic projects
approved under non-competitive tenders to boost industry
profitability and investment.  Grid operators will pay solar developers 1.15 yuan (18
cents) per kilowatt-hour, the National Development and Reform
Commission  said  today. The projects must have been approved
before July 1 or be completed by the year-end, the NDRC said.
Projects approved after July 1 will supply power at 1 yuan per
kilowatt-hour, according to the top economic planning agency.  China offers solar projects to developers under both open
and non-competitive tenders. Under the government’s two rounds
of competitive bidding in 2010 and 2009, project approval was
granted to companies offering the lowest on-grid tariffs.  “This feed-in tariff is much higher than the prices from
China’s first two rounds of bidding,” Luo Lu, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said in Beijing. “At current
costs, this guarantees margins and will encourage more companies
to participate in the industry.”  Tariffs in the last bidding round ranged from 0.73 yuan to
0.99 yuan a kilowatt-hour, Luo said.  The government seeks to keep on-grid tariffs of electricity
generated by solar projects as competitive as those set by
plants using coal, oil and gas as fuel to encourage consumers to
shift to cleaner-burning energy sources.  Based on the prices announced by the government today,
solar projects approved under non-competitive tenders may get an
internal rate of return of as much as 8 percent, according to
Luo.  --Chua Baizhen. Editors: Ryan Woo,  Jane Lee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 