-- 
China’s Manufacturing Growth Exceeds Estimates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-01T08:08:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/china-manufacturing-exceeds-estimates.html
China ’s manufacturing slowed less
than economists estimated in July even as smaller businesses
were hurt by tighter credit and weakness in export demand.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 50.7 compared with
50.9 in June, the  China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing 
said in a statement in its website today. That exceeded each
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 13 economists. A separate
measure released by HSBC Holdings Plc contracted for the first
time in a year.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s campaign to boost investment in social
housing and raise wages may help sustain growth in the world’s
second-largest economy as a faltering U.S. recovery and  Europe ’s
debt woes cap demand for Chinese-made goods. Export orders fell
to their lowest level in 17 months, federation data show.  “Growth has decelerated in the face of the global soft
patch in export demand and the weight of tightening,” said
 David Cohen , an economist at Action Economics Ltd. in Singapore.
He added that the government “will be able to achieve a soft
landing, tightening enough to prevent inflation from getting out
of hand but at the same time allowing continued growth.”  China’s central bank said today that the fundamentals of
economic growth are “still good” and reining in prices will
remain its “top priority.”  Inflation expectations “remain strong and the foundation
for stabilizing prices is not solid,” the People’s Bank of
China said in a statement on its website after an internal
meeting to discuss its tasks for the rest of the year.  Slower Export Orders  The benchmark  Shanghai  Composite Index rose 0.1 percent to
2,703.78 at the 3 p.m. close. The central bank set the yuan’s
reference rate against the  U.S. dollar  at a record high of
6.4399. The Chinese currency was little changed at 6.4354 at
4:03pm in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System.  Today’s statement from the logistics federation showed
production and new export orders grew at a slower pace for the
fourth month.  Still, the new orders index increased in July for the first
time in four months while input prices grew at a slower pace for
the fifth straight month, rising the least since July 2010.  “Further tightening is not needed given that the input
price index fell further, indicating subsiding price pressures
at the factory gate,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist with Credit Agricole CIB.  A reading above 50 indicates an expansion. Apart from 2009,
the index has declined each July since the series was first
published in January 2005, previously released data show. The
gauge is based on a survey of purchasing managers in more than
820 companies in 20 industries. It last dropped below 50 in
February 2009.  ‘Lackluster’ Demand  The purchasing managers’ index released by HSBC and  Markit
Economics  fell to its lowest level since March 2009. The index’s
final reading was revised upwards to 49.3 from the preliminary
figure of 48.9 published on July 21. The gauge is based on a
survey of more than 400 companies.  The data “confirmed the slowing growth momentum of the
manufacturing sector against the backdrop of sustained
tightening and lackluster external demand,” said  Qu Hongbin ,
chief China economist at HSBC in Hong Kong. “The current level
of the PMI is still consistent with a 12 percent to 13 percent
growth rate of industrial production.”   Output growth of 13 to 15 percent is possible for the rest
of the year even as companies face pressure from rising raw
material, energy and labor costs,  Zhu Hongren , spokesman for the
Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology  said at a
briefing on July 21.  Rising Incomes  Economic expansion is being supported by spending on low-
cost housing and rising wages.  The government, which has pledged to build 36 million low-
cost homes by 2015, will ensure that the construction of 10
million units begins by the end of November, the State Council
said last month.  A total of 13 provinces raised minimum wages in the first
quarter of the year by an average 21 percent, data from the
Human Resources and Social Security Ministry show. Per capita
urban disposable income rose 13.2 percent in the first half of
the year and rural cash incomes climbed 20.4 percent, the
statistics bureau said last month.  Nissan Motor Co. said last week its Chinese joint venture
plans to invest 50 billion yuan ($7.8 billion) by 2015 to raise
vehicle sales to more than 2.3 million units a year as growth
boosts demand.  ‘Financial Distress’  The HSBC PMI may show a lower reading than the official
index because it focuses on small and medium-sized companies
that have been affected more than state-owned enterprises in the
government’s tightening campaign, Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-
based economist with Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. said today.  Many smaller manufacturers are facing “financial
distress” after the central bank raised banks’ reserve
requirements to a record over the past 18 months, draining an
estimated 4.1 trillion yuan from the banking system, Tao Dong,
chief China economist at Credit Suisse AG in  Hong Kong  said in a
July 21 note.  The People’s Bank of China has paused for six weeks since
last boosting the requirement, the longest gap since a series of
increases began in November.  Economists at Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd. estimate
the logistics federation’s index could drop below 50 over coming
months based on a slowdown in trade and falling inventories of
raw materials which suggest further destocking pressure on
companies during the summer.  ‘Robust’ Demand  In contrast, Liu Li-Gang, chief China economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group in Hong Kong, said weak
PMI readings in July are “usually followed by a strong rebound
in August.” Domestic demand “will remain robust on the
expected tax cut starting Sept. 1 and the ambitious public
housing program,” he said in a note today.  China’s economy  is slowing after the government raised
 interest rates , curbed lending, and limited home purchases and
property development to rein in inflation that’s exceeded the
government’s 4 percent ceiling every month this year.  Consumer prices climbed 6.4 percent in June driven by a 14
percent gain in food costs. Economic growth slowed to 9.5
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier from a 9.7
percent increase in the first three months.  For the full year, expansion will moderate to 9.6 percent
from 10.3 percent in 2010, the  International Monetary Fund 
forecast in a July 21 report.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Victoria Ruan, Huang Zhe in
Beijing, Sophie Leung in Hong Kong, Ailing Tan in  Singapore .
Editors: Nerys Avery, Ken McCallum  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  