-- 
Police in China Shoot Two Uighurs Suspected of Joining in Xinjiang Attack

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-02T02:41:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/china-says-restaurant-attack-was-terror-after-18-die-in-violence.html
Chinese police yesterday shot dead
two ethnic Uighurs suspected of taking part in a July 31 attack
in Kashgar, the official Xinhua News Agency said.  Memtieli Tiliwaldi, 29, and Turson Hasan, 34, were shot in
a corn field outside the city yesterday, Xinhua cited Hou
Hanmin, a spokesman for the Xinjiang government, as saying. The
pair were suspected of involvement in a shootout at a restaurant
and shopping street in which six bystanders and five suspected
attackers died, Xinhua said. The Kashgar government had offered
100,000 yuan ($15,500) for information leading to their arrest.  The shooting of the suspects brings the three-day death
toll from two attacks in  China ’s westernmost city to 22. China
is calling the restaurant assault a “premeditated terrorist
attack” and yesterday said the ringleaders received training in
Pakistan. Eight people were killed and 27 injured in a separate
July 30 truck hijacking and knifing spree, in which the attacker
was also killed, Xinhua said. A July 18 riot in the city of
Hotan, also in Xinjiang, left at least four people dead.  An “initial police probe” showed that the leaders of the
“religious extremists” involved in the attack trained in bomb-
making and firearms in Pakistan at camps run by the East
Turkestan Islamic Movement, Xinhua said yesterday. The New York-
based  Council on Foreign Relations  said in a 2008  report  that
ETIM is an extremist militant group founded by Uighurs, an
ethnic group that makes up about 40 percent of Xinjiang’s
population of about 20 million.  Xinjiang Clashes  Xinjiang was the scene of clashes two years ago between the
mostly Muslim Uighur minority and the majority Han ethnic group
that left almost 200 people dead. Muslim Uighurs share ethnic
ties with the Turkic peoples of central  Asia .  Dru Gladney, a professor of anthropology at Pomona College
in Claremont,  California , who studies Xinjiang and the Uighurs,
said China’s claim that the attacks were aided from abroad
“really rings hollow” in part because there is a high level of
“discontent” in Xinjiang stemming from government policies
seen as benefiting Han Chinese at the Uighurs’ expense.  “Because China has been playing the terrorism card for so
long now, fewer and fewer people believe them,” Gladney said in
an interview. “There is a total lack of credibility.”  Xinhua cited a Kashgar government statement which said
“the outbreak of violence was no random occurrence” and was
planned to “create conflicts between ethnic groups in order to
split Xinjiang from the motherland.”  ‘Evil Force’  Pakistan  “will continue to extend its full cooperation and
support” to China against the ETIM, its foreign ministry said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “Terrorists, extremists and
separatists” in Xinjiang “constitute an evil force,” the
statement said.  The region’s top official, Communist Party head Zhang Chunxian, an ethnic Han, said the local government will crack
down on “terrorist activities” and “illegal” religious
activities, as well as strictly control dangerous and explosive
substances, according to a statement yesterday on its website.  Two years ago the government announced plans to demolish
much of the old city center of Kashgar, which was once a stop on
the Silk Road. The government said the centuries-old dwellings
and shops pose a safety hazard. Uighur groups said the plan is
designed to disperse the ethnic population and stymie the
transmission of cultural traditions from generation to
generation. Anger over the destruction may have helped stoke the
attacks, Gladney said.  Old Kashgar’s Destruction  “Demolishing the old city of Kashgar has been a major
source of complaints and anger among Uighurs worldwide,”
Gladney said. “The heart has been ripped out of their
culture.”  Rebiya Kadeer, president of the Munich-based World Uyghur
Congress, said in a statement that while her organization
doesn’t support violence, Chinese government policies toward
Xinjiang are to blame for the killings.  “I am saddened that Han Chinese and Uighurs have lost
their lives,” said Kadeer, 63, once one of Xinjiang’s most
successful businesswomen, who now lives in exile in the U.S.
“The Chinese government has to ask itself, why do Uighurs so
desperately resist knowing that they will be killed or executed?
The answer should be very clear. Uighurs have lost all hope.
There are no Uighur families who cannot tell a story of arrest,
torture or death.”  Uighurs complain of discrimination by the Han, China’s
dominant ethnic group, and of unfair allocation of the region’s
resources. The reports didn’t identify the ethnic group of the
restaurant owner.  Ethnic Tensions  Years of central government policies encouraging migration
of Han Chinese to areas such as Tibet and Xinjiang have stoked
ethnic tensions. China views groups pushing for greater
independence as seditious.  The violence comes as China is preparing its biggest-ever
trade fair in Xinjiang, which the Chinese  Commerce Ministry says 
is designed “to boost the regional economic cooperation among
Central, West and South Asian and European countries, and to
promote the all-round development of Xinjiang.” The  China-
Eurasia Expo  will open Sept. 1 in Urumqi, Xinjiang’s capital,
where police held counter-terrorism drills last week as part of
preparations, according to Xinhua accounts posted on a Xinjiang
 government website .  --Michael Forsythe, with assistance from James Rupert in  New
Delhi , Haris Anwar in Islamabad and Gregory Turk, Jiang
Jianguo and Jing Jin in  Shanghai . Editors: Peter Hirschberg,
 Patrick Harrington .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7580 or
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 