-- 
China’s Expanding Naval Reach Worries Japan Over Routine Warship Presence

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-08-01T23:38:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/china-s-expanding-naval-reach-worries-japan-over-routine-warship-presence.html
Japan  expressed mounting concern over
 China ’s expanding naval reach, saying in the government’s annual
defense report that it expects the rising maritime power’s ships
to become commonplace near its waters.  “China plans to expand its sphere of maritime activities,
carrying out operations and training as an ordinary routine
practice in waters surrounding Japan,” said the report, which
was released today in  Tokyo . The areas Japan believes it will
encounter China’s navy include the “East China Sea and the
Pacific Ocean, as well as the South China Sea.”  The report, unchanged from last year in citing the Chinese
military’s lack of transparency, adds to recently voiced
concerns from the U.S., Vietnam and the Philippines over naval
spats. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton warned last month that
disputes in the  South China Sea  threaten to disrupt one of the
world’s busiest shipping lanes.  After a collision between a Chinese fishing trawler and
Japanese Coast Guard vessels in the East China Sea last year,
Japan shifted the focus of its national defense toward China and
away from  Russia . Japan said it would deploy troops to its
southwestern islands and strengthen its air force in Okinawa,
according to military guidelines approved by Prime Minister
Naoto Kan’s Cabinet in December. Japan said at the time it would
move personnel and tanks from the northern island of Hokkaido,
close to Russia, which were put in place to counter Cold War
threats.  Formal Protest  In March Japan made a formal protest to China after a
Chinese helicopter buzzed a Japanese destroyer in the  East China
Sea . In the South China Sea there has been an increase in
“intimidations, the ramming, the cuttings of cables -- the
kinds of things that will raise the cost of business for
everyone,” Clinton said last month at a meeting of the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations in Bali, Indonesia.  China claims  most  of the South China Sea and says any
attempt to drill or fish in the waters is a violation of its
sovereignty. Chinese vessels in May sliced cables of a survey
ship doing work for Vietnam, the second such incident in a
month. In March, Chinese ships chased away a vessel working for
U.K.-based  Forum Energy Plc (FEP)  off the  Philippines .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  