-- 
Citadel Capital of Egypt Says It Plans to Boost Investment in East Africa

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-08-01T21:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/citadel-capital-of-egypt-plans-to-invest-more-in-east-africa.html
Citadel Capital SAE, an Egyptian
private-equity company with  $8.7 billion  in assets under
management, said it will boost spending in eastern  Africa  after
a “gratifying experience” investing in  Kenya  and Uganda.  The company, based in Cairo, will invest in commercial
agriculture, energy, low-income housing and  food processing ,
Chairman Ahmed Heikal said yesterday in an interview in the
Kenyan capital, Nairobi.  “We are interested in increasing our exposure,” Heikal
said. “All of this is on the back of clear encouragement and
support from both governments in RVR.”  In Kenya, the company owns 51 percent of  Rift Valley
Railways Ltd.  or RVR, the operator of the Kenya-Uganda rail
line. RVR is today scheduled to sign a $164 million loan accord
that forms part of a $287 million expansion plan for the railway
that links the Ugandan capital, Kampala, to the Kenyan port of
 Mombasa , East Africa’s biggest.  Citadel’s investments will be in Kenya, Uganda and
Tanzania. In  South Sudan , the company has oil concessions and a
banking license that it will “pursue,” Heikal said, without
providing further details. The company has a 250,000-acre
(101,181-hectare) farm in southern  Sudan  and a similar-sized
area of land in the north.  Last month, Citadel said the  Egyptian Financial Supervisory
Authority  approved a $175 million rights offer. The sale of
stock to existing shareholders will increase Citadel’s capital
to 4.36 billion Egyptian pounds ($732 million). The company’s
shareholders are expected to approve the transaction during an
extraordinary general assembly on Aug. 3, Heikal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 