-- 
Club for Growth, MoveOn Groups Oppose Debt Ceiling Deal

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-08-01T21:57:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/club-for-growth-moveon-groups-each-oppose-debt-ceiling-deal.html
Club for Growth , an anti-tax group,
and  MoveOn.org , a pro-entitlements group, both came out Monday
in opposition to the debt ceiling compromise.  The statements issued by the two groups came amid a flurry
of reactions from outside groups assessing the details of the
agreement announced Sunday to cut the deficit by $2.1 trillion
and raise the $14.3 debt ceiling.  Club for Growth, an organization that has funded primary
challenges to Republican members of Congress, said it would
highlight the vote in its annual ratings. The organization cited
the lack of a requirement for a balanced budget agreement to be
sent to the states for consideration and the possibility of a
recommendation for tax increases from a bipartisan committee
charged with identifying about $1.5 trillion in  deficit
reduction  by late this year.  The Club for Growth concluded the deal “simply doesn’t fix
the country’s fiscal problems.”  The Tea Party-aligned group FreedomWorks, headed by former
House Majority Leader Dick Armey, a Texas Republican, said the
bill is “not the serious reform Tea Partiers demanded last
November” in the 2010 elections, according to a statement by
president Matt Kibbe.  Business groups often allied with Republicans, including
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Association of
Wholesaler-Distributors, and National Association of
Manufacturers, endorsed the legislation. So did the  Business
Roundtable , an association of chief executive officers.  ‘Responsible’ Path  “This deal raises the debt limit to meet our
obligations,” said  John Engler , president of the roundtable and
a former Republican governor of  Michigan . “It has spending cuts
and sets in motion a process to put our country on a responsible
fiscal path.”  Representatives of the  American Bankers Association , the
Financial Services Roundtable, the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, and other banking and insurance
trade groups sent a letter today to congressional leaders
commending them for reaching the debt deal and endorsing it.  ‘Grave Consequences’  “Failure to take action will have grave consequences for
American consumers, businesses and our economy,” the letter
said. “We believe that this agreement will restore market
confidence while putting ourselves on a path toward long-lasting
fiscal sustainability.”  MoveOn Executive Director Justin Ruben said the agreement
“unfairly asks seniors and the middle class to bear the burden
of the debt deal.”  The group, with five million members, provided grassroots
support to Obama in the 2008 election.  Also criticizing the deal was the National Organization for
Women, whose president, Terry O’Neill, called the deal “a
serious blow to women’s economic security.”  One of the unions representing federal workers, the
 National Treasury Employees Union , applauded that Obama and
congressional leaders reached an agreement aimed at avoiding a
government default.  President Colleen Kelly said in a statement, though, that
“the impact on the federal workforce remains uncertain and
agencies are likely to face reductions in their budgets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 