-- 
Commodities Beat Stocks, Bonds in July

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-08-01T00:10:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/commodities-beat-stocks-bonds-in-july.html
Commodities beat stocks, bonds and
the dollar for the first time in three months in July as
expectations that China’s booming economy will spur demand for
raw materials outweighed the debt crises in the U.S. and  Europe .  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24
commodities rose 2.4 percent, ending two months of losses, while
the MSCI All-Country World Index of shares slipped 1.7 percent.
Bonds of all types returned an average 0.8 percent, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index. The
Dollar Index fell 0.6 percent and touched a 10-week low.  “You’ve got a lot of investment demand from stock guys
buying outright commodities,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, a market
strategist with Lind-Waldock, a broker in  Chicago . “There’s a
lot of investment now, but you still have a ton of big money on
the sidelines. They’re not investing because of the
uncertainty.”  China’s gross domestic product expanded 9.5 percent in the
second quarter as five interest-rate increases since October and
efforts to curb bank loans failed to cool growth in the world’s
second-biggest economy. European leaders agreed July 21 to a 159
billion-euro ($229 billion) bailout to help  Greece  avoid a
default, while disagreements deepened between U.S. Republicans
and Democrats over raising the nation’s debt ceiling.  The Obama administration says the Treasury’s borrowing
authority runs out tomorrow and the U.S. may not be able to pay
all of its bills after that unless the $14.3 trillion debt limit
is raised. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat, and
 Mitch McConnell , the Senate Republican leader, have voiced
support for a tentative agreement with House leaders and the
administration to raise the borrowing limit, paving the way for
possible votes in both chambers.  Commodity Gainers  Last month’s advance took the S&P GSCI index’s gain this
year to 5.2 percent, extending a two-year rally.  Raw materials 
will keep rising this year and into 2012 as economic growth
accelerates, a team of analysts led by London-based  Jeffrey Currie  at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. wrote in a July 7 report.
Goldman correctly advised investors to sell oil and copper in
April before prices slumped.  Bullish wagers in 18 commodities climbed 16 percent to 1.26
million futures and options contracts in the week ended July 19,
the most since August 2010, government data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Holdings increased 33 percent in July after
slumping 24 percent in June and 15 percent in May.  Wheat, Gold, Oil  Wheat in Chicago led July’s gains, rising 17 percent as
adverse weather damaged crops in the U.S., while gold added 8.5
percent in  New York , reaching a record $1,637.50 an ounce on
July 29, as investors bought the metal as a store of value.
Copper advanced 4.6 percent as a strike at Chile’s Escondida
mine curbed production. Brent and West Texas Intermediate oil
rallied 3.8 percent and 0.3 percent.  “Macro drivers have definitely been overshadowing all
asset classes,” said Katherine Spector, a commodities
strategist with CIBC World Markets Corp. in New York. “Clearly
gold has already been a beneficiary of all this uncertainty but
I think some of the other commodities could be as well.”  Industrial output advanced 15.1 percent in  China  in June,
the most since May 2010, government data showed on July 13. The
economy will probably expand 9.4 percent in 2011, according to
the median of 18 economists’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.
The U.S. will grow 2.5 percent while the euro region will
increase 2 percent, surveys showed.  ‘Political Noise’  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, dropped the most since April as
President  Barack Obama  threatened to veto Republican House
Speaker John Boehner’s two-step plan to raise the $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling and cut $3 trillion in spending.  The euro was the worst performer in July among 10
developed-nation currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Currency Indexes, falling 2.6 percent. The  New Zealand
dollar  strengthened 6 percent against the U.S. currency, while
Australia’s dollar appreciated 2.5 percent. The euro weakened
0.7 percent.  “The markets are really focused on political risk and
sovereign risk,” said Eric Stein, a  money manager  in Boston at
Eaton Vance Management, which oversees $203 billion. “They’re
being driven more and more by political noise, whether it’s the
debates in  Washington  or whether it’s plans coming out of Europe
to deal with the debt crisis.”  The decline on the MSCI All-Country World Index of shares
trimmed gains for the year to 1.6 percent. The  S&P 500 Index (SPX) 
dropped 2.2 percent in July as lawmakers wrangled over the debt
ceiling, and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 2.8 percent as a
second bailout package for Greece failed to ease concern that
the region’s debt crisis will spread. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index climbed 1.3 percent, the first gain since April.  Emerging Markets  Stocks worldwide lost about $300 billion of market
capitalization in the month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 0.7 percent.
Brazil’s Bovespa Index sank 5.7 percent, extending its retreat
from last year’s high to 20 percent on July 27. The gauge was
the first among the largest developing nations to fall into a
 bear market  this year after inflation quickened and the
government adopted measures to stem currency gains. India’s
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index slipped 3.4 percent, while
the Shanghai Composite Index declined 2.2 percent.  Peru’s Lima General Index led gains, rising 16 percent
after President-elect Ollanta Humala, a former army rebel who
took office July 28, made cabinet and central bank appointments
that eased concern he may curb foreign investment. Thailand’s
SET Index jumped 8.8 percent and the baht strengthened 3.3
percent against the dollar, leading gains in developing-nation
currencies, following July 3 elections that led to a peaceful
transition of power.  ‘Story Intact’  “People are coming back,” Richard Titherington, head of
emerging markets equity at JPMorgan Asset Management in  London ,
said in a July 26 interview on Bloomberg Television. “The
emerging markets story is very much intact.”  U.S. government debt  gained 1.12 percent in July after
losing 0.31 percent in June, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Corporate securities returned 1.5
percent in July, reversing a 0.8 percent loss in June.  Standard & Poor’s  said on July 14 there’s a 50 percent
chance it will cut the AAA rating on  U.S. debt  in the next 90
days even if an agreement on the debt ceiling is reached by
tomorrow’s deadline. The yield on the U.S. 10-year note ended
the month at 2.80 percent, after touching the lowest level this
year of 2.77 percent on June 29. The yield’s average over the
past decade is 4.05 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  While the U.S. faces a downgrade, company debt has rallied
amid stable  credit quality , said James Sarni, a senior managing
partner at Los Angeles-based Payden & Rygel, which manages $60
billion.  “The most prudent thing to do in this environment is to
focus on things where you can get the highest income stream
available without compromising credit quality and liquidity,”
Sarni said in a telephone interview. “We’re seeing continued
appetite for credit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net  