-- 
Construction Spending in U.S. Climbs for Third Straight Month

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-01T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-climbs-for-third-straight-month.html
Construction spending in the U.S. rose
in June for a third consecutive month, led by a gain in
nonresidential building, including factories, communications
plants and commercial structures.  The 0.2 percent increase followed a revised 0.3 percent gain
in May that was previously reported as a drop, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. The median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey projected a 0.1
percent increase.  Lower  interest rates , easier lending rules and a drop in
raw-material costs may keep stimulating a rebound in commercial
projects that will help underpin business investment, one of the
few areas of the economy that contributed to growth last quarter.
At the same time, decreases in government spending and a stagnant
housing market probably mean a broad-based rebound in the
industry will fail to take hold.  “The fiscal situation continues to contract state and local
government budgets,” Sean Incremona, a senior economist at 4Cast
Inc. in  New York , said before the report. “Falling commodity
prices could be helping the construction sector.”  Estimates of the 49 economists surveyed ranged from a
decrease of 0.5 percent to a gain of 0.9 percent. The Commerce
Department revised the May data from a previously reported 0.6
percent drop. April figures were also updated to show an increase
rather than a decrease.  Construction spending fell 4.7 percent in the 12 months
ended in June.  Private construction spending rose 0.8 percent in June, a
third consecutive gain. Homebuilding outlays decreased 0.3
percent, which included a 0.5 percent drop in home improvement,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on the data.  Housing Starts  Housing starts in the U.S. rose 15 percent in June, led by a
30 percent increase in multifamily construction, the Commerce
Department reported July 19. Building permits, a sign of future
construction, also increased.  Falling  home prices  are hurting  consumer confidence  and
demand for real estate. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property
values in 20 cities fell 4.5 percent in May from a year earlier,
the biggest 12-month drop since November 2009, the group reported
last week.  Lender delays in processing home-loan defaults, while
crimping current distressed transactions, will push as many as 1
million U.S. foreclosures from this year into 2012 or beyond,
casting an “ominous shadow” on the housing market, RealtyTrac
Inc., a housing data provider, said last month. A clogged
foreclosure pipeline may prevent real estate prices from finding
a bottom.  Builder Loss  PulteGroup Inc., the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
last week reported a worse-than-expected second-quarter loss as
sales fell amid slumping demand for new houses.  “The industry is moving along a cyclical bottom that is
proving to be fairly stable,” Chief Executive Officer  Richard
Dugas  said in a teleconference on July 28. “Simply put, we need
more jobs and better consumer confidence before a meaningful
recovery can occur.”  Private non-residential projects increased 1.8 percent, the
most since March. Manufacturing and communications projects
climbed 4 percent, while outlays for commercial building rose 3.1
percent, today’s report showed.  Spending on public construction dropped 0.7 percent in June
from the prior month as state and local government projects
declined 0.6 percent. Federal construction spending fell 2.2
percent.  “For six districts, activity in the nonresidential real
estate market has improved slightly for specific submarkets,
although conditions generally remained weak across all twelve
districts,” the  Federal Reserve  said July 27 in its Beige Book
survey of regional U.S. economies since early June.  Government Spending   The battle over the budget may be another hurdle for the
industry. Congressional leaders, leaving no extra time before a
default threatened for tomorrow, are racing to push through a
compromise sealed with President  Barack Obama  last night to raise
the U.S. debt limit slash government spending.  The House plans votes today and the Senate may follow suit
to consider the agreement reached during a weekend of
negotiations that capped a months-long struggle between Obama and
Republicans over raising the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  Today’s data will figure into the revisions to second-
quarter gross domestic product that will be issued later this
month. The economy grew at a 1.3 percent annual pace from April
through June after expanding at a 0.4 percent rate in the first
three months of the year. A gain in commercial construction added
0.2 percentage point to growth and residential building
contributed 0.1 point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  