-- 
Credit Suisse Hires Former Citadel Banking Co-Head Stine

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-08-01T17:23:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/credit-suisse-hires-former-citadel-banking-co-head-craig-stine.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  hired Craig Stine, the former co-head of investment banking at Ken Griffin’s
Citadel LLC, as it bolsters its roster of bankers advising
financial companies.  Stine started today in New York as a vice chairman in the
financial institutions group, James Amine, co-head of investment
banking, said today in an internal memo that was obtained by
Bloomberg News. The memo’s contents were confirmed by Jack Grone, a company spokesman.  “Craig is broadly recognized as one of the most senior
global bankers in the specialty finance sector,” Amine wrote,
saying he has worked for clients including  American Express Co. (AXP) ,
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ,  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) ,  CapitalSource Inc. (CSE) ,
and  SLM Corp. (SLM)   Stine joined Citadel in 2009 after a 17-year career at
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and predecessor firms, Amine said.  Timothy Devine, a colleague of Stine’s at Citadel and
Citigroup, joined Zurich-based Credit Suisse in Chicago last
month, according to records on the website of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. He was a managing director at the
Citadel banking unit.  Credit Suisse in June hired Alejandro Przygoda, who
specializes in insurance clients, from New York-based Greenhill
& Co. to be co-head of the global financial institutions group
with Ewen Stevenson.  Stine’s departure from Citadel in May was the latest
setback to Griffin’s effort, started in 2008, to expand his
hedge fund by helping corporate customers issue and trade
securities and by advising on mergers and acquisitions.  Rohit D’Souza, whom Griffin hired to build the securities
unit, left in 2009, and his successor, Patrik Edsparr, was
ousted the following year. Todd Kaplan, who preceded Stine and
co-head Brian Maier as head of the  investment-banking  group,
left in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 