-- 
Cushing Crude Stockpiles Fall 1.9%, Satellite Survey Shows

-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-08-01T14:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/cushing-crude-stockpiles-fall-1-9-satellite-survey-shows.html
Crude oil inventories in Cushing,
Oklahoma, dropped 1.9 percent on July 29 from July 26, according
to data compiled by  DigitalGlobe Inc. (DGI)   Stockpiles held in floating-roof tanks at the hub decreased
720,000 barrels to 36.2 million barrels, satellite images taken
by the Longmont, Colorado-based company show. The Energy
Department said July 27 that Cushing stockpiles, including
floating and fixed tanks, were 37.1 million as of July 22.  Cushing is the physical delivery point for New York
Mercantile Exchange oil futures contracts and the largest crude-
trading and storage hub in the U.S. The hub has  working storage 
capacity of 48 million barrels, the department said on May 31.  The  DigitalGlobe  estimate is based on images of all 225
operational floating-top tanks at Cushing, the satellite company
said. There are also 107 fixed-roof tanks at the hub.  Cushing’s floating-roof tanks are used mostly to store
crude oil, according to  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston, who estimates that 90 percent of the
storage volume in the hub is floating tanks. Fixed-roof tanks
are for storing petroleum products with lower vapor pressures,
such as jet fuel and distillate, he said.  Data Releases  Some fixed-roof tanks in Cushing may have been retrofitted
with internal floating roofs and may be used to store crude oil,
according to Lipow. Heavier crudes can also be kept in fixed-
roof tanks.  DigitalGlobe data is released twice each week at 10:30 a.m.
New York time on Mondays and Fridays. For the Friday release,
the information is collected from the previous Saturday through
Wednesday. For the Monday release, it’s from the previous
Thursday or Friday.  When clouds obscure the satellite view, data is used from
the last day in which there was a full collection. The highest
percent of collection data will be used when cloud cover
obscures images during a collection period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  