-- 
Deficit-Cutters Ignore El-Erian’s Growth ‘Denominator’

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-08-01T21:48:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/debt-cutters-ignore-el-erian-growth-denominator-to-detriment-of-economy.html
U.S. and European policy makers
arguing about budget deficits and debt may be failing to combat
the other plague on their economies: sluggish growth.  With the  U.S. Treasury  set to exhaust its authority to
borrow tomorrow, President  Barack Obama  said late yesterday that
congressional leaders had approved a deal to raise the debt
ceiling and cut the deficit, which must be voted on by
lawmakers. The austerity drive follows similar consolidation in
Europe, where countries from Greece to the U.K. have reduced
outlays and increased taxes to bring liabilities under control.  What officials may also need to execute are the fundamental
changes needed on both sides of the Atlantic to make economies
function better and thus expand more. In the U.S., the budget
squabbles threaten to hold back growth, making it harder to
tackle entrenched unemployment and a battered housing market,
said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co.  “When you look at the debt burden, there is a numerator
and a denominator,” El-Erian, whose Newport Beach, California-
based firm manages the world’s biggest bond fund, said in a
phone interview. “We may end up creating so much damage to the
denominator, which is growth of GDP, that what we do in the
numerator, reducing the debt, may end up being insufficient.”  ‘Healing Process’  In  Europe , the focus on belt-tightening has failed to
convince investors that the region has put its 22-month old debt
crisis behind it and is now on a path of a self-sustaining,
broadly shared economic recovery. A “genuine healing process”
also requires so-called peripheral economies such as Greece to
boost their growth potential by overhauling labor markets to
make it easier to hire and fire, according to  Dirk Schumacher ,
an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Frankfurt.  “Structural reforms are an important factor when it comes
to assessing the long-term growth outlook of the periphery and
thus debt sustainability of governments,” he said in an e-mail.
“Past experience in countries like  Germany  suggests that
reforms can pay off substantially, though it may take a while
before the benefits become visible.”  Rising yields on Italian and Spanish 10-year bonds are
“definitely the trend,” according to  Gary Jenkins , head of
fixed income at Evolution Securities Ltd. in  London . Stock
strategists at HSBC Holdings Plc last week suggested investors
favor European companies with a high proportion of sales outside
the continent and identify  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest chemical
maker, and French luxury-goods maker  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC)  as beneficiaries of their ties to  China .  Seeking Elixirs  Spanish 10-year bonds fell today, pushing the yield up 12
basis points to 6.2 percent as of 5:23 p.m. in  New York . The
yield on the 10-year Italian bond rose 14 basis points, to 6
percent. U.S. Treasuries rose, with the yield on the benchmark
10-year note falling five basis points to 2.74 percent.  Finding elixirs for growth is difficult at the best of
times, let alone when budgets are strained and benchmark
interest rates are near rock-bottom -- 0 to 0.25 percent in the
U.S. If policy makers can’t fan demand enough, the solution lies
in making economies more efficient and attractive to companies
looking to spend.  Obama’s Proposals  Obama is championing a grab bag of proposals aimed at doing
just that, from the creation of an infrastructure bank that
would use public and private funds to finance spending on roads
and bridges to patent law revision that would let businesses get
products to market more quickly. He has also called for passage
of free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama.  All those steps, though, require approval by Congress,
which remains preoccupied by wrangling over the debt at a time
when control of the two houses is divided between Republicans in
the House and Democrats in the Senate.  The administration is also stepping up its search to find
ways to help struggling homeowners avoid foreclosure after Obama
himself agreed that the programs he’s introduced so far haven’t
made as much progress as hoped.  “We’re going back to the drawing board,” he said at a
July 6 town hall meeting at the White House sponsored by Twitter
Inc.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has called the
housing market the “epicenter” of the troubles facing the
economy and has singled it out as a major reason why the
recovery has been slower than central bankers had forecast.  Growth Weakness  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate
last quarter after expanding 0.4 percent in the first three
months of 2011, the worst performance since the start of the
recovery in June 2009, the Commerce Department said on July 29.  “The  U.S. economy  is still struggling to emerge from the
Great Recession and unable to move to a path of vibrant and
sustainable growth,” Dan DiMicco, chairman and chief executive
officer at steelmaker  Nucor Corp. (NUE)  in Charlotte, North Carolina,
said on a July 21 teleconference with stock market analysts.  The slow pace of the rebound -- the economy has yet to
recoup all the ground lost in the recession -- has spawned a
host of proposals from economists about ways to boost output.  A task force sponsored by the New America Foundation in
 Washington  has called for tougher enforcement of U.S. trade
laws, particularly against China, and firmer buy-American
procurement requirements in government contracts.  Encouraging Business  The Kansas City-based Kauffman Foundation advocates a
series of steps to promote business start-ups, from special
visas for immigrant entrepreneurs to tax breaks for investors in
early-stage companies. It also calls for removal of regulatory
barriers to business formation.  Such an approach might work especially well in Europe, said
David Mackie, chief European economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in London. Economies such as  Greece ’s are unlikely to ever be
able to compete with manufacturing giants like Germany and
should instead aim to evolve new businesses, he said.  “Growth is all about doing new things and some of these
economies have barriers to doing that,” said Mackie. “It’s
about allowing people to be creative, innovative and
entrepreneurial.”  In the case of Greece, analysts at Brussels-based research
group Bruegel say the EU could use structural funds to raise the
quality of its universities, support loans for small and medium
sized enterprises and create business zones for areas such as
biotechnology.  Cameron’s Policies  In the U.K., Prime Minister David Cameron’s government last
week created four enterprise zones and set out plans to help
small retailers by removing regulations covering the sale of
items including televisions and Christmas crackers.  Tim Morgan, global head of research at Tullett Prebon Group
Plc in London, said 70 percent of the British economy is in an
“ex-growth lockdown” after previously relying on borrowing and
 consumer spending  for power. Electronics retailer  Dixons Retail
Plc (DXNS)  said on June 23 that the economic backdrop remains
“challenging.”  Because Cameron is undertaking the biggest fiscal squeeze
since World War II, Morgan says the only available route to
stronger growth is a “liberty agenda” of streamlining taxes
and safety regulations for small businesses while outlawing
contingency litigation.  ‘Tide of Debt’  “The global economy is afloat on a tide of debt,” he
said. “We’re going to have to generate organic growth rather
than borrowing growth.”  In the euro area, some steps are being taken to buoy
growth. The 17 euro countries are pursuing a “euro plus pact”
aimed at boosting competitiveness in ways such as corporate tax
harmonization and abolishing wage indexation. Greece is opening
up more than 150 occupations, from taxi-driving to hairdressing,
to competition, Spain raised its retirement age to 67 and
Portugal plans to cut employers’ social security contributions.  While the German government last week lobbied its companies
to consider investing in Greece’s telecommunications and
renewable energy sectors,  Anton Boerner , president of Germany’s
BGA exporters group, said “the ball’s in the Greek court to
create a framework for investment.”  Greece is ranked 109th by the  World Bank  for the cost of
doing business there and the World Economic Forum places it 83rd
for competitiveness, below Rwanda and Guatemala.  Allen Sinai , president of Decision Economics in New York,
said the U.S. and other debt-strapped, slow-growth economies are
between a rock and hard place. The policies normally prescribed
for promoting recovery -- tax cuts and government spending
increases -- would enlarge the deficit, while the steps needed
to reduce debt risk hurting growth.  The answer, he said, may be for the U.S. to overhaul the
tax code, promoting economic growth through lower rates while
sparing the government a loss of revenue by doing away with
loopholes and deductions for special interests.  “We have a growth crisis as well as a deficit crisis,”
Sinai said. “We need to tackle both the numerator and the
denominator of the debt burden.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  