-- 
Debt Deal First Step to Fiscal Integrity, Fisher Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-08-01T13:36:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/debt-deal-is-first-step-to-fiscal-integrity-peter-fisher-says-tom-keene.html
The debt-limit agreement reached by
congressional leaders is a positive step for the U.S. while
deficit reduction will remain a long-term challenge, according
to BlackRock Inc.’s  Peter Fisher .  “The politicians have understood that they had to put the
threat of a default behind us,” said Fisher, head of fixed
income at the world’s biggest money manager in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.
“We are really just looking at the first big step toward fiscal
rectitude by the federal government, and it’s going to take
several years to get it on path.”  Congressional leaders are working to push through a
compromise sealed with President  Barack Obama  last night to
raise the U.S. debt limit by at least $2.1 trillion and slash
 government spending  by $2.4 trillion or more. The House plans
votes today, and the Senate may follow suit to consider the
agreement reached during a weekend of negotiations that capped a
months-long struggle between Obama and Republicans over raising
the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  Treasuries pared losses today as the reduced risk of a
default encouraged demand for  U.S. debt . Yields on 10-year notes
increased two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.82
percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The U.S. still faces the threat of a credit-rating
downgrade, according to Fisher, 55, based in  New York .  “Politicians went too far with the threat of default,”
Fisher said in an interview with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack.” Even with the pending agreement,
the U.S. remains “right on the cusp” of a downgrade, he said.  Spending Reduction  The budget agreement would raise the debt ceiling in two
installments, sufficient to serve the nation’s needs into 2013.
The framework, as detailed by officials in both parties, would
cut $917 billion in spending over a decade, raise the debt limit
initially by $900 billion and assign a special congressional
committee to find another $1.5 trillion in deficit savings by
late November, to be enacted by Dec. 25.  If Congress met that deadline and deficit target, or voted
to send a balanced-budget constitutional amendment to the
states, Obama would get another $1.5 trillion borrowing boost.  In the case of Congress failing to take either step, or not
producing debt savings of at least $1.2 trillion, the plan
allows the president to obtain a $1.2 trillion debt-ceiling
extension. Still, that would trigger automatic spending cuts
across the government -- including in defense and Medicare -- to
take effect starting in 2013. The Medicare cuts would only
affect provider reimbursements, not benefits.  “It’s encouraging that they’ve at least understood that
shooting a hole in the bottom of the boat would not be a good
plan,” said Fisher in the Bloomberg Radio interview. “They are
going to have to grapple with how to cut spending with the
political realities the parties have been wrangling about. It’s
great they have a trigger mechanism to force them to action, but
it is going to get harder and harder each month we get closer to
the election in 2012.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  