-- 
U.S. Debt-Ceiling Agreement Leaves States Preparing for More Cuts Ahead

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-08-01T21:31:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/debt-ceiling-agreement-leaves-u-s-states-preparing-for-more-aid-reduction.html
States braced for possible federal
aid cuts under the congressional debt-ceiling deal intended to
avert a U.S. default and government shutdown.  State officials are still parsing the  debt-ceiling bill  for
details of how it will affect them. While it eliminates the
immediate threat of a crisis that could impose higher borrowing
costs and shut off the flow of federal funds, officials are
concerned that the cuts will place added burdens on their
budgets. This is the fourth straight fiscal year in which states
faced budget deficits.  “A looming vote on the federal debt puts a dark cloud over
 Connecticut ’s financial outlook,” the state’s comptroller,
 Kevin Lembo , said in an e-mailed statement. “Dollars that we
depend on year after year could suddenly disappear if federal
spending cutbacks result in drastic funding cuts.”  States received about 35 percent of the $1.62 trillion
spent during the  2010 budget year  from the federal government,
according to the  National Association of State Budget Officers .
The money is used for programs such as Medicaid, public works
projects, and public schools. The debt-ceiling  agreement 
requires Congress to cut $2.4 trillion from the federal deficit,
including more than $900 billion in the next decade.  ‘Shifting Costs’  “Deficit reduction should not be accomplished by merely
shifting costs to states or imposing unfunded mandates,” said
Jodi Omear, a spokeswoman for the  National Governors Association 
in Washington.  The deal comes as states struggle to balance their budgets
with spending reductions that are exerting a drag on the
economy. Since 2008, states have had to close shortfalls of more
than $500 billion, according to the  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities . While state tax collections are on the rise, they’re
still below their peak in September 2008, before the effects of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse rippled through the
economy.  The debt-ceiling agreement doesn’t spell out how cuts are
to be made, and much of that decision-making is left to a
bipartisan congressional panel.  “Nothing has been set in stone,” said Kil Huh, research
director for the Pew Center on the States in  Washington . “The
uncertainty to come, with spending cuts coming down the line, is
really going to be a challenge for states going forward.”  Credit Ratings  The turn toward avoiding a default was a relief to state
and local governments that were concerned it might fuel turmoil
in financial markets and force them to drain their reserves if
the government was shuttered.  Moody’s Investors Service said last month it was reviewing
the top credit ratings of municipal borrowers, including the
states of  Maryland ,  Tennessee  and  South Carolina , because of the
tussle over the federal government’s finances.  California  last
week borrowed $5.4 billion earlier than it intended to avoid any
market disruptions if the Treasury defaulted.  Washington Governor Christine Gregoire, a Democrat, said
the federal budget fights have curbed  consumer confidence ,
depressing sales tax collections. She pressed Congress to
maintain funding for college-student grants and Medicaid, the
health care program for the poor.  “Until we have more certainty, I fear our revenues will
continue to suffer, while businesses remain anxious and
reluctant to hire,” Gregoire said in a letter to her state’s
Congressional delegation today.  Spending Caps  The consequences of the budget-cutting agreement for states
aren’t immediately clear, said Michael Bird, who tracks federal
affairs for the  National Conference of State Legislatures .  Under the proposal, the federal government would save
almost $1 trillion over 10 years with caps on discretionary
spending, while a bipartisan committee would seek accord on
another $1.5 trillion in savings by November, according to the
 White House . Medicaid, the biggest single expense for states,
would be spared should automatic cuts kick in if the
Congressional panel is unable to agree on needed cuts, according
to  Senate Democrats .  Because the agreement’s impact may be spread across the
federal government -- including the defense budget and
entitlement programs like Medicare -- states may be spared the
fiscal strain they may have faced, Bird said. He said the
spending prescribed for 2012 and 2013 holds close to the current
level, blunting the impact on states over the first two years.  “Everything ultimately is on the table,” he said. “If
everything is on the table, from our perspective, the likelihood
of cost shifts, new unfunded mandates and essentially an
exporting of the federal deficit to the states is diminished. It
isn’t eliminated.”  Governor Relieved  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican who has
moved to scale back the size of the government in his home
state, said he was relieved that Obama and Congressional leaders
reached an agreement to raise the debt limit.  “I join with, I’m sure, hundreds of millions of Americans
when I say I’m relieved the president and the Congress have
finally gotten around to doing their jobs,” Christie said at an
event with senior citizens today. “Now they’ve got to deliver
on it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  