-- 
Demand for India Cotton Will Depend on Price, CBA’s Mathews Says

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-01T05:31:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/demand-for-india-cotton-will-depend-on-price-cba-s-mathews-says.html
Luke Mathews, a commodity strategist
at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , comments on cotton prices and
demand after  India  ended curbs.  India, the world’s second-largest cotton shipper, lifted
restrictions on overseas sales of raw cotton yesterday. Mathews
spoke by phone from Sydney.  On prices:  “All things being equal, we would expect this to weigh on
the global complex, but the exact influence right now is a
little bit more blurred because of the crop-production issues we
are seeing in the U.S.  “In isolation, the Indian story is certainly bearish for
prices. Considering the fact that we have relatively lackluster
global demand, the overall impact on world prices may be
muted because of the drought we have seen throughout  Texas .”  On cotton demand:  “We haven’t seen great demand in general for cotton and
that was one of the contributing factors for global cotton
prices slumping in the first half of 2011.  “We would start to expect global cotton demand to reenter
the market around these levels, but nothing is a given. We
haven’t seen confirmation of that in any significant way over
the last couple of weeks with prices hovering around 100 cents a
pound.  On demand for Indian cotton:  “At the end of the day it depends at what price this
cotton is offered to the global market.  “If you look at the global wheat market, we’ve seen over
the last three months a lifting of a Russian wheat export ban.
There was originally some concern about the global demand for
that particular wheat, but with the prices that that grain was
offered at, $20 up to $50 a ton under world markets it soon
unearthed demand.  “If the cotton market plays out in a similar vein with
Indian cotton offered underneath global prices, then it might
spur the world consumers to come to the market.  “Global buyers of cotton will be wary of the potential
changes to export policies by the Indians, and by any global
supplier of agricultural products. Again, if the price is right
that can incentivize buyers to perhaps overcome those fears.  “At the end of the day, it will simply depend on the price,
the value that this cotton is offered.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  