-- 
Deutsche Telekom to Cut Administrative Jobs at Headquarters

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-08-01T09:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/deutsche-telekom-to-cut-administrative-jobs-at-german-headquarters-in-bonn.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  plans to reduce
administrative employees at its headquarters as  Europe ’s largest
phone company tries to improve profitability.  The Bonn-based company may cut as many as 400 jobs per year
through 2015, spokesman Christian Schwolow said today. The plan,
which isn’t yet finalized, would decrease the number of
employees at various levels through means including early
retirement and voluntary departure, he said.  The measures are part of the Save for Service program at
 Germany ’s former phone monopoly, which cut costs by 5.9 billion
euros ($6.1 billion) from 2007 through 2009, with an additional
4.2 billion euros targeted by 2012. Dutch competitor Royal KPN
NV plans to decrease headcount in the Netherlands by as much as
5,000, or a quarter of its total.  “Employee numbers in the German segment are going to keep
decreasing in coming years,” said Stefan Borscheid, an analyst
at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart with a “buy”
recommendation on Deutsche Telekom shares. The rollout of fiber-
optic cables and the transition to fully Internet Protocol-based
networks may allow further cuts in the longer term, he said.  Deutsche Telekom declined 1 percent to 10.73 euros in
Frankfurt trading as of 11:16 a.m.  Schwolow declined to say how much the company may have to
pay for severance packages, or by how much the plan may reduce
labor costs. Its global headcount declined 2 percent to 252,000
last year.  Compensation Payments  The company is facing compensation payments totaling as
much as 400 million euros, German newspaper Handelsblatt
reported today, citing unidentified people within the company  Deutsche Telekom has revamped its workforce through cuts,
partial or early retirement and by seeking alternative
employment opportunities, especially for civil servants. Its T-
Systems unit, which targets corporate clients, slashed 3,000
jobs through the end of last year.  France Telecom SA and Deutsche Telekom’s U.K. joint venture
Everything Everywhere said last year they would cut about 1,200
jobs following the merger which created Britain’s largest
wireless operator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  