-- 
Debt Downgrade Amounts to Few Basis Points in Rating History

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-01T14:27:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/downgrade-of-u-s-debt-amounts-to-only-few-basis-points-in-ratings-history.html
As the prospect for the loss of the
U.S.’s AAA  credit rating  approaches and congressional leaders
agree on a pact to avert default, bonds and currencies are
signaling increasing demand for the assets of the world’s
largest economy.  Treasury yields average 0.72 percentage point less than the
rest of the world’s sovereign debt markets, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show. The difference has expanded from
0.15 percentage point in January. The dollar saw greater than
average net inflows last week compared with the previous year,
according to Bank of New York Mellon, the custodian for more
than $20 trillion.  Investors from  China  to the U.K. are lending money to the
U.S. government for a decade at the lowest rates of the year.
For many of them, there are few alternatives outside the U.S.,
no matter what its credit rating. President  Barack Obama  said
leaders of both parties in the U.S. House and Senate approved an
agreement to raise the nation’s debt ceiling and cut the federal
deficit, in a televised speech yesterday in Washington.  “There is no other country that can step in and replace
the U.S. at the core of the system,” Mohamed El-Erian, the
chief executive officer at Newport Beach, California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co., which manages the world’s
largest bond fund, said July 25 in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “The U.S. is the supplier of the reserve
currency.”  Reserve Currency  The dollar represents 60.7 percent of the world’s currency
reserves, compared with the 26.6 percent for the euro, which has
the next biggest portion, according to the  International
Monetary Fund  in Washington.  Ten-year Treasury yields fell 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, last week to 2.80 percent, the lowest level
since November. The benchmark 3.125 percent note due May 2021
rose 1 13/32, or $14.06 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 25/32,
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show. The yield fell to as low as
2.72 percent today in New York, the least since November.  The rate is below the 4.05 percent average over the past
decade and compares with the average of 5.48 percent when the
U.S. was running a  budget surplus  from 1998 through 2001.  History shows the rate may not rise much, at least not
initially. Ten-year yields for the nine sovereign borrowers that
have lost their AAA ratings since 1998 rose an average of two
basis points in the following week, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  “The Treasuries market is the core asset of the financial
world and there are very few alternatives for others to go
into,”  Nick Bennenbroek , the head of currency strategy at  Wells
Fargo & Co . in New York, said in an interview last week.  Bond Auctions  In auctions of two-, five- and seven-year notes last week
totaling $99 billion, indirect bidders, a class of investors
that includes foreign central banks, bought 35 percent of the
bonds, up from 30 percent in the June sales.  Congressional leaders are sifting through the details of a
tentative bipartisan agreement to raise the debt ceiling, a step
needed to allow the government to keep paying its bills,
preparing to sell the deal to fellow Republicans and Democrats
ahead of possible votes today.  The framework would increase the $14.3 trillion borrowing
limit through 2012, cut spending by about $1 trillion and call
for enactment of a law shaving another $1.5 trillion from long-
term debt by 2021 -- or institute reductions across all
government areas, including Medicare and defense programs,
according to congressional officials.  ‘Grand Bargain’  Standard & Poor’s  indicated last week that anything less
than $4 trillion in cuts would jeopardize the U.S.’s AAA rating.  “A grand bargain of that nature would signal the
seriousness of policy makers to address the fiscal situation in
the U.S.,”  John Chambers , chairman of S&P’s sovereign rating
committee, said in a video interview distributed by the New
York-based ratings firm on July 28.  Moody’s Investors Service reiterated on July 29 that the
U.S. should be able to keep its Aaa rating as long as the
Treasury agrees to raise the debt ceiling.  Low government debt yields may reflect concern about the
health of the economy and the drag spending cuts would have on
gross domestic product.  Reductions are “going to be good for Treasuries,
ironically, because it’s bad for the economy,”  Tad Rivelle , the
head of fixed-income investment at Los Angeles-based TCW Group
Inc., which manages about $115 billion, said in an interview
last week. “It ought to further restrain economic growth by in
effect withdrawing a good deal of fiscal stimulus.”  Slowing Economy  GDP climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate last quarter,
following a 0.4 percent gain in the first quarter that was less
than previously estimated, Commerce Department figures showed
July 29 in  Washington . The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 1.8 percent increase.  The impasse in Congress threatens to turn sentiment against
the U.S., according to Mike Schumacher, the head of global
interest-rate strategy at UBS AG in New York.  “If there is really a blow-off event in Washington, so
let’s say all the discussions completely fall apart over the
next few days, you could possibly see the 10-year yield go up to
3.25 percent or 3.3 percent,” Schumacher said in a July 27
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Dollar Bets  Data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in
Washington show net bets against the dollar rose to 310,222
contracts as of July 26 from 272,444 a week before.  Currency traders speculate the dollar may come under
pressure as slower growth keeps the  Federal Reserve  from raising
 interest rates  from a record low, damping the appeal of U.S.
financial assets. Economists at  Barclays Capital  said in a July
29 report that they now expect the Fed to keep its target rate
for overnight loans between banks in a range of zero to 0.25
percent through 2012.  With a spending contraction coming “these are perfect
conditions for the Fed to stay on hold for the foreseeable
future,” said Shyam Rajan, an interest-rate strategist at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in  New York , one of the 20 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “You’re never going to get the
Fed to raise rates” with the economy growing below the long-
term trend of 3 percent, he said in an interview last week.  Signs of Strength  There are signs of strength in the U.S. currency. The
greenback closed at the end of last month at $1.4399 per euro,
up from the three-week low of $1.4578 on July 4.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which
measures the currency against six of the U.S.’s major trading
partners, was at 73.897 on July 29, rising from the low this
year of 72.696 on May 4. It rose to 74.144 today.  “Foreign reserve managers have been wrestling with whether
they should hold so much in dollar assets for the last several
years,”  Carl Lantz , the head of interest-rate strategy in New
York at Credit Suisse Group AG, a primary dealer, said in an
interview last week. “It’s hard to imagine that anything is
lower risk than Treasuries, whatever S&P says. We’re an economic
and military superpower, we are the reserve currency. It’s still
as close as you get to a risk-free asset.”  A downgrade would likely add to the difficulties facing the
economy, Obama said in a prime-time speech July 25. A rating
reduction would trigger a jump in interest rates on credit
cards, mortgages and consumer loans, “which amount to a huge
tax hike on the American people,” Obama said.  Mortgage, Corporate Rates  The average rate for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage rose for
a second week, to 4.55 percent, according to  Freddie Mac , which
compiles data from 125 lenders.  Other parts of the  debt market  aren’t foreshadowing
disruption similar to when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went
bankrupt in 2008 and when concern that  Greece  would default
surfaced in 2010.  Corporate bonds of all ratings returned an average of 2.04
percent in July, the best since gaining 2.35 percent in the same
month last year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  The difference between two-year swap rates and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, which can signal shortages of liquidity in the financial
system, has ranged from 0.15 percentage point to 0.31 percentage
point this year. That’s below the 1.65 percentage point gap
after Lehman collapsed, and less than the 0.47 percentage point
level in June 2010.  “The U.S., downgrade or no downgrade, is still going to be
the benchmark,” said Rick Rieder, the chief investment officer
at New York-based BlackRock Inc., who manages $612.5 billion in
fundamental fixed-income portfolios. “Even with a downgrade, I
think the market would assume the safest asset you could buy in
a portfolio was still Treasuries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  