-- 
Dubai Stocks Rise to One-Week High on U.S. Debt Accord; Emaar, DSI Advance

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-08-01T13:49:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/dubai-stocks-rise-to-one-week-high-on-u-s-debt-accord-emaar-dsi-advance.html
Dubai’s shares rose to a two-week
high after U.S. President  Barack Obama  said congressional
leaders struck a deal to raise the nation’s debt ceiling. The
emirate’s default risk tumbled.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, gained 2.8 percent and  Drake & Scull International (DSI) 
PJSC, the United Arab Emirates construction company, rose the
most in almost a month. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  climbed 0.6
percent to 1,526.34, the highest since July 18, at the 2 p.m.
close in Dubai. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  increased 0.8
percent and  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  rose 0.7 percent. The
Islamic holy month of Ramadan, when Muslims fast from sunrise to
sunset, started today.  “U.A.E. markets are struggling to replicate relief rallies
evident elsewhere,” said  Julian Bruce , equity sales head at
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE in Dubai. There is “a modicum of
interest being shown by mainly domestic buyers, but the first
day of Ramadan automatically ushers in an additional uptick in
investor apathy, irrespective of news.”  Emerging market stocks rose after Obama announced that
leaders of both parties in the U.S. House and Senate had reached
a tentative bipartisan agreement to raise the debt ceiling,
preparing to sell the deal to skeptical Republicans and
Democrats ahead of a possible default on Aug. 2. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index increased 1.6 percent and the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index advanced 1.5 percent at 9:30 a.m. in  New York .  Volumes Decline  About 69 million shares traded in Dubai today, compared
with a 12-month daily average of 122 million shares, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dubai’s default risk, or credit default swaps, retreated 16
basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 317, the lowest level
since June 7, according to CMA. The data provider is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Crude oil for September delivery rose as much as 3 percent
to $98.6 in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council,
including the U.A.E. and  Saudi Arabia , supply about a fifth of
the world’s oil.  Emaar advanced the most since July 3 to 2.96 dirhams and
Drake & Scull climbed 1.9 percent to 95.5 fils.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  and Kuwait’s gauge increased 0.1 percent.
Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  climbed 1.3 percent and
Oman’s MSM 30 Index advanced 0.4 percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share
Index slipped 0.1 percent  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  