-- 
Ducati’s $16,995 Diavel Cruiser Leaves Harley’s V-Rod on Corner

-- B y   M a t t h e w   O a k l e y
-- 
2011-08-01T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/ducati-s-16-995-diavel-leaves-bankers-harley-cruisers-on-corner-review.html
The biking world can be set in its
ways, and cruisers like Harley-Davidson’s V-Rod are meant to be
big, heavy, powerful and loud. They’re wrapped in black and
chrome and nowadays are normally ridden by bankers over 45.  Plonk one on the U.S. east coast, drive it in a straight
line to  California , rotate it, then drive it back. It’ll go
fast, make noise and chug happily along all day. Just don’t
expect it to steer much better than an oil tanker.  So when Ducati released the first photos of its $16,995
Diavel, a so-called power cruiser to compete with the likes of
the V-Rod and Yamaha’s V-Max, and claimed it would handle almost
like a sports bike, there were howls of disbelief. The Bologna,
Italy-based builder of the world’s most famous sports bikes had
sold out, betrayed its traditions.  Then people began to ride the Diavel, and there were
entirely different howls of disbelief. I rode it and I didn’t
want to give it back.  The  Diavel  is stunningly futuristic, one of the most daring
factory designs to date, and the most head-turning. This is a
machine for people who like to be stared at. Still, its front-
heavy profile, long wheelbase and huge rear tire suggest that it
should have the agility of a water buffalo.  Nose Cone  Lowering myself into the deep seat, the enormous front end
looms ahead like the nose cone of an aircraft, the brushed
aluminum air scoops on either side like turbines, an impression
enhanced when I flick the starter switch and the twin displays
flash to life, accompanied by the whirring and sighing of
motors.  It’s a bit unnerving. Even at a standstill, the bike feels
like it needs manhandling, and with 162 horsepower on tap I
don’t want to be worrying about whether this thing likes to
turn.  Pressing the starter button brings to life one of the most
satisfying engine sounds in motorcycling: deep, gurgling,
throaty and rich with menace. I select Touring -- one of the
three riding modes -- which offers full power, softens the
throttle response and bumps up the traction control level.  Then, as I ease it away from Ducati’s Singapore showroom
into a slow, narrow 90-degree bend, all sense of size and weight
disappears. It’s almost magically easy to steer, seemingly
confounding the rules of engineering.  Blind Corner  Picking up speed and confidence, I zip round the next bend
to discover a flat-bed truck is parked in the perfect spot to
swallow motorcycles, blocking my path on a blind corner on a
slippery, painted concrete surface. Uh-oh.  This is my early chance to test the Brembo brakes, which
stop the Diavel with room to spare. By the time I emerge onto
the highway 10 minutes later, all concerns have vanished. I’m
having fun. Lots of it.  The acceleration from the 1,198cc engine is phenomenal --
we’re talking 0 to 60 miles per hour in 2.6 seconds -- yet it
isn’t terrifying. Even in Sport mode, with full horsepower and
the sharpest throttle response, the delivery is smooth and the
torque seems endless, making you hunt constantly for overtaking
opportunities. On twisty roads it’s supremely able, very stable
and only marginally less nimble at flicking between corners than
its smaller cousin, the Ducati Monster.  It’s happiest on smooth, constant-radius bends, when you
can pick your line, roll on the power through the apex and
slingshot out the other side without unsettling the bike even
slightly. Even on the soggy Singapore roads after a torrential
tropical downpour it felt nailed to the tarmac, solid and
assuring, the traction control and those astonishing brakes
providing an extra layer of confidence.  Different Class  Suddenly comparisons with the  V-Rod  -- cheaper than the
Ducati at $15,000 in the U.S. but 1,000 pounds more expensive in
the U.K. -- felt ridiculous. The upright, comfortable riding
position is cruiser-like, but the similarities end there. This
is really a different class of bike.  The Diavel isn’t perfect. The gearbox was occasionally
stiff; the low-speed fueling from the 11-degree Testastretta
engine is better than last year’s Multistrada yet still not
perfectly smooth; the factory suspension settings were too hard,
making heavy work of bumpy roads -- though it wasn’t difficult
to dial this out -- and the wide seat began to chafe the inner
thighs after five hours in the saddle.  Those minor niggles aside, the Diavel is a phenomenal
machine.  The Ducati Diavel at a Glance  Engine: 1,198cc, 90-degree twin, with 162 horsepower (or
100 in Urban Mode) and 94 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed manual.  Speed: 0 to 60mph in 2.6 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 40.  Price: $16,995.  Best features: Incredible engine, supreme stability and
agility.  Worst feature: Low-speed lumpiness.  Target buyer: Riders seeking sportsbike thrills without
back-breaking discomfort.  ( Matthew Oakley  writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Oakley in Singapore at 
 moakley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 