-- 
EADS’s Astrium Satellite Unit Buys Vizada to Build U.S. Presence, Services

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-08-01T10:59:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/eads-to-buy-apax-satellite-communications-unit-vizada-for-960-million.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. agreed to buy Vizada from Apax Partners LLP for $960 million
to add satellite-communications services.  Vizada provides communications for the maritime, aerospace
and defense industries, bolstering EADS’ Astrium space unit, the
Paris and Munich-based company said in a statement today.  EADS, which had 11 billion euros ($15.8 billion) in cash at
the half-year mark, has stepped up the pace of acquisitions this
year, adding services operations and expanding in  North America .
Vizada is EADS’ fourth services-related transaction this year,
and the company’s biggest deal since buying out BAE Systems
Plc’s stake in planemaker Airbus SAS in 2006.  “The growing demand for maritime services is a perfect
cornerstone for Astrium to develop its commercial satellite
communications,” EADS said in the statement. “This also offers
multiple development potential in the various sub sectors such
as commercial fishing, leisure and military.”  EADS, based in Munich and Paris, rose as much as 65 cents,
or 2.7 percent, to 24.85 euros, and traded at 24.70 euros as of
10:10 a.m. The stock has advanced 42 percent so far this year.  Rebalancing  Chief Executive Officer  Louis Gallois  has identified
services and security businesses as two areas to find growth as
governments cut spending on military programs. EADS aims to
reduce dependence on its Airbus planemaking unit to less than
half of total revenue and has been working to expand export
sales outside of commercial aircraft as it competes with
military contractors that have U.S. government backing.  Vizada also has contracts with the U.S. state, EADS said.  EADS completed the acquisition of  Vector Aerospace Corp. (RNO) ,
based in  Canada , on June 30 to expand in aviation repair and
overhaul services. On July 27, Airbus offered to buy Danish
aviation supplier Satair A/S for about $504 million in cash to
add a maintenance and components company. That followed the July
26 accord to acquire U.S.-based Metron Aviation to help build up
a new unit focusing on air-traffic management.  UBS AG acted as sole financial adviser to Vizada and Apax
 France  on the transaction, according to UBS. EADS was advised by
Messier Maris et Associes, Ernst & Young Group, and on the legal
side by Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, according o EADS
spokesman Rod stone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  