-- 
U.K. Teen Charged With Hacking Websites Released on Bail, Banned From Web

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-01T17:49:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/teenager-charged-with-hacking-u-k-crime-agency-website-released-on-bail.html
Jake Davis, a British teenager
accused of conspiring to create a fake news story claiming
 Rupert Murdoch  had died, was released today on bail with the
condition that he doesn’t access the Internet.  Davis, 18, from the Shetland Islands in  Scotland , was
arrested last week and charged with conspiring to carry out a
so-called denial of service attack on computers at the U.K.
government’s  Serious Organised Crime Agency , London’s
Metropolitan Police said in a statement yesterday.  Police said Davis may act as the spokesman for the hacking
groups Anonymous and LulzSec and uses the online nickname
“Topiary.” LulzSec’s Twitter feed hasn’t posted any comments
since his arrest last week. LulzSec has claimed credit for
breaking into websites at Sony Corp. and the  U.S. Senate , while
Anonymous said in April it would wage what it called a cyberwar
against Tokyo-based Sony for trying to prevent people from
tinkering with PlayStation 3 game consoles.  Davis was also charged with unauthorized access to a
computer system, encouraging and assisting offenses, and
conspiring with others to violate the Computer Misuse Act. He
will be subject to a curfew and can have no direct or indirect
access to the Internet. In an attack on the website of  News
Corp. (NWSA)  publication The Sun, visitors were redirected to the false
article on the company’s chairman and chief executive officer,
Murdoch, according to Davis’s indictment.  Another British teenager, Ryan Cleary, was arrested as part
of the investigation into computer hacking on businesses and
government agencies in June. Cleary, 19, was accused of being
involved in the attack on SOCA, and a similar attack on the
International Federation of the Phonographic Industry and the
British Phonographic Industry, both of which represent the
recording industry.  Cleary is required to live and sleep at his parents’ home
address in Essex,  England  and isn’t allowed to leave without one
of them as part of the conditions of bail.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 