-- 
Egypt Seeks $504 Million From Bonds as Yields Drop Ahead of Mubarak Trial

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-08-01T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/egypt-seeks-504-million-from-bonds-as-yields-drop-ahead-of-mubarak-trial.html
Egypt plans to sell three-year bonds
today ahead of the trial of former President  Hosni Mubarak  and
as the North African nation’s 10-year dollar notes trade near a
six-month high.  The Ministry of Finance aims to raise 3 billion Egyptian
pounds ($504 million) from the sale, according to  Central Bank 
of Egypt data on Bloomberg. It raised a similar amount from the
auction of two-year notes last week, the first such sale since a
popular revolted ousted Mubarak in February, paying a coupon of
13.1 percent. The yield on one-year treasury bills has retreated
from a 31-month high in June to 12.847 at an auction on July 28.  “The three-year issuance should be well covered because
we’re still talking about a medium-term investment in the
absence of better opportunities for banks,” said Mohamed Kotb,
Cairo-based asset management director at Naeem Financial
Investments. “We expect most buyers to be local banks.”  Egypt  increased its reliance on short-term debt since the
start of the popular uprising against Mubarak in January, having
canceled 19.5 billion pounds in bond sales until last week’s
issuance. The trial of Mubarak, his sons Alaa and Gamal, former
Interior Minister Habibi el-Adly and others will begin in Cairo
on Aug. 3, the Middle East News Agency reported July 28, citing
Mohamed Manie, assistant to the justice minister.  The country repaid the principle $1 billion and interest on
its 8.75 percent 10-year bond that matured on July 11. It’s 5.75
percent 10-year dollar bond due April 2020 has since advanced,
pushing the yield down to 5.55 percent on July 29, the lowest
level since Jan. 14. The pound closed unchanged at 5.9568 per
dollar on July 29.  Political Tensions  Tens of thousands of protesters gathered in Cairo and
Alexandria on July 29 to demand the government speed up
political and economic reforms. Islamists demanded the
preservation of Egypt’s “Arab and Islamic identity” and
implementation of Islamic laws as debate on the role of religion
intensifies ahead of elections due in November.  “We’ve had six months of heightened political tensions, so
it’s safe to say the  risk premium  has already been priced in,”
Kotb said. The yield on one-year T-bills has surged 226 basis
points, or 2.26 percentage points, since the start of protests
in January.  Today’s sale is the second of  auctions  for a combined 22
billion pounds in two-year fixed-rate, two-year floating-rate
and three-year bonds this quarter. The amount represents 15
percent of the government’s fund-raising for the period, with
the rest coming from sales of T-bills, according to the  Finance
Ministry . It compares with 19 percent in the same quarter of
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  