-- 
Egypt Security Forces Open Tahrir Square After Protests

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-08-01T17:51:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/egypt-security-forces-open-tahrir-square-after-protests-1-.html
Egyptian security forces reopened
Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  to traffic and dismantled tents set up by
protesters staging a sit-in that began July 8 to demand faster
change after the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak .  The protesters were staging a sit-in even after many
activist groups suspended their participation before the Muslim
holy month of Ramadan, which started in  Egypt  today.  One of the activists, Salma Saeed, said baton-wielding
troops beat up some protesters, including from the families of
those killed in the uprising against Mubarak, to clear the
square. The state-run Nile News television channel reported
“minor” confrontations and said the security forces used no
violence against the demonstrators.  “The square was filled with people being beaten up,”
Saeed, 25, said in a telephone interview. “One army officer
threatened to arrest me.” She said she had stayed in the square
in support of those who lost family members and to demand the
prosecution of officials involved in the killing of protesters.  At least 846 people were killed in the uprising that forced
Mubarak to step down and cede interim rule to a military council
on Feb. 11. The trial of Mubarak, on charges that include the
killing of protesters, will open in Cairo on Aug. 3.  Television footage showed tents in the square being
dismantled and young men hurling stones at security forces.
Military forces arrested a number of “thugs,” the state-run
Middle East News Agency reported.  The protesters demanded the swift prosecution of former
government officials accused of corruption and involvement in
the killing of demonstrators and an end to military trials of
civilians. Some protesters have also called for the removal of
the public prosecutor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net . 