-- 
Telekom Austria May Have Fixed Stock to Get Options, Profil Says

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-08-01T09:39:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/telekom-austria-may-have-fixed-stock-to-get-options-profil-says.html
Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  may have
manipulated its share price in 2004 to secure  stock options 
worth 9 million euros ($13 million) for about 100 managers,
 Profil magazine  reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Gernot Schieszler, who at the time was an aide to then
Chief Financial Officer Stefano  Colombo , hired Johann Wanovits,
the head of Vienna brokerage Euro Invest Bank AG, to “support
the share price if needed” to reach the trigger price for the
stock options, Profil said.  On Feb. 27, 2004, Telekom Austria needed to close at 11.72
euros to reach the trigger level, according to the report. That
price wasn’t achieved until the closing auction of the day, in
which Wanovits acquired 900,000 shares, pushing the share price
to 11.73 euros.  Wanovits at the time told the Austrian financial regulator
FMA that he had bought the shares on his own behalf, Profil
said. After Euro Invest’s offices were raided in July, Wanovits
changed his account to tell the authorities that he had been
directed to acquire the shares by Schieszler, Profil said,
citing witnesses to the raid.  Schieszler’s lawyer Stefan Prochaska didn’t return a call
and an e-mail seeking comment from Bloomberg News. He declined
to comment to Profil, citing an ongoing proceeding.  Telekom
Austria  spokeswoman Elisabeth Mattes said the company would
issue a statement later today. Euro Invest board member Franz
Wanovits, Johann Wanovits’s brother, declined to comment, citing
the pending investigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  