-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Rise as U.S. Leaders Strike Debt Deal

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-08-01T07:40:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/emerging-market-stocks-rise-as-u-s-leaders-strike-debt-deal.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
driving the benchmark index to its biggest gain in almost three
weeks, after U.S. Congressional leaders reached an agreement to
raise the nation’s debt ceiling.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1.2 percent to
1,151.83 as of 4:31 p.m.  Seoul  time, set for the biggest
increase since July 13. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  rallied 1.8
percent. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index rose 1 percent to a
record. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese
companies’ H shares increased 1.3 percent.  Leaders of the Republican and Democratic parties have
agreed on a deal that will “reduce the deficit and avoid
default,” President  Barack Obama  said. The plan would raise the
$14.3 trillion debt ceiling by $2.1 trillion, sufficient to
serve the nation’s needs through 2013. Stocks also rallied after
data showed growth in Chinese manufacturing and South Korean
exports beat analyst estimates, and as companies from Bank of
the Philippine Islands to  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  posted higher
profits.  “The U.S. debt agreement triggered a relief rally,” said
Lim Chang Gue, a  fund manager  in Seoul at Samsung Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $30 billion. “Still, this
type of rally may not continue as the U.S. is likely to brace
for spending cuts and as inflation in key emerging economies
will grab investors’ attention again.”  Exports, Inflation  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has risen less than 0.1
percent this year, trailing a 2.6 percent gain in the MSCI World
Index, a measure for developed markets. The index of developing-
nation shares are valued at 11 times estimated profits, less
than the multiple of 12.6 for developed shares.  South Korean stocks gained as a report showed today the
nation’s exports expanded 27.3 percent last month, beating
forecasts for a 17.1 percent gain. A separate report showed the
country’s inflation accelerated to a four-month high in July.  Samsung Electronics Co., Asia’s biggest maker of chips,
flat screens and mobile phones, climbed 3.1 percent.  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-largest computer-memory
chipmaker, rallied 5.4 percent.  LG Chem Ltd. (051910)  gained 3.3 percent, leading South Korean
chemical companies higher after a fire broke out at a  Formosa
Petrochemical Corp. (6505)  plant in Taiwan. Honam Petrochemical Corp.
and Hanwha Chemical Corp. rose at least 4.2 percent. Formosa
Petrochemical, Taiwan’s only publicly traded oil refiner,
slumped 6.9 percent.  “Investors are betting that Korean rivals will benefit as
the Formosa fire is likely to affect the region’s supply,” said
Lee Eung Ju, an analyst with Shinhan Investment Corp.  Higher Earnings  Chinese stocks gained after a gauge of manufacturing slowed
less than economists estimated. An index of the nation’s
manufacturing posted a reading of 50.7 for July compared with a
previously reported 50.9 for June. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 13 economists was for the purchasing
managers index to fall to 50.2.  Bank of the Philippine Islands (BPI) , the nation’s biggest lender
by market value, rose 2.2 percent after posting an 18 percent
gain in second-quarter net income.  Nickel Asia Corp. (NIKL) , the
nation’s largest producer of the metal, gained 4.4 percent after
first-half net income more than doubled.  Suzlon Energy,  India ’s biggest maker of  wind turbines ,
climbed 3.5 percent after first-quarter profit beat analyst
estimates. PTT Aromatics & Refining Pcl, a Thai oil refiner and
petrochemical maker, added 1.2 percent. The company reported
second-quarter net income of 2.14 billion baht compared with a
revised 522.3 million baht loss a year earlier.  -- With assistance from Ian C. Sayson in Manila. Editors: Darren
Boey, Richard Frost  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  