-- 
Men in Black ‘Follow the Money’ as India’s Chief Justice Leads Graft Fight

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 
2011-08-01T18:31:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/men-in-black-follow-the-money-as-india-top-judge-busts-graft.html
India  needs “clean men in black
robes” to help end corruption, Chief Justice Sarosh Homi Kapadia told the Indian Bar Association in an April  speech .  The 31-judge  Supreme Court  he’s led since May 2010 has
already risen to his challenge -- ousting the head of India’s
anti-graft watchdog, forcing the government to hand out food to
the poor, and overseeing probes leading to the jailing of a
billionaire executive and a former telecommunications minister.  On July 4, foreign banks were the target of Judges B.S.
Reddy and S.S. Singh Nijjar. Their  ruling  for the top court
began by citing the instructions given to reporter  Bob Woodward 
during the Watergate investigation: “Follow the money.”  They ordered a team headed by a judge to take over the
government’s efforts to retrieve as much as $500 billion that
Indians may have stashed illegally overseas, citing in a 53-page
ruling a case where records were found of assets being held by a
Swiss bank in Zurich.  “The new chief justice is phenomenal,” said Rahul Bajaj,
the chairman of Pune-based  Bajaj Auto Ltd. (BJAUT) , India’s second-
largest motorcycle manufacturer. “So many businessmen and
politicians who thought they were untouchable are now scared.”  India’s government has been assailed by a stream of
corruption scandals over the last year, including the 
resignation of two ministers tied to the sale of 
telecommunications licenses. That, along with the misuse of  
funds for the Commonwealth Games, helped trigger nationwide 
protests demanding a new anti-graft agency which can 
investigate the prime minister and judges.  ‘Providing Accountability’  “Kapadia is providing accountability, which is what the
public mood has been crying out for,” said Raj Kumar, a law
professor and vice chancellor of Jindal Global University in the
state of Haryana. “There has been such distrust in the Indian
establishment over the last eight or nine months, and he is
providing some much-needed respectability.”  Underscoring the challenges India faces tackling government
corruption, the top minister of Karnataka state last week said
he would resign after being accused of taking bribes from
companies illegally mining minerals. The scandal may have
cost the government about $3.6 billion in lost revenue.  Kapadia, whose predecessor is being investigated by Indian
tax authorities, said in his April speech that judges must lead
an exemplary life, “the keystone of modern judicial conduct.”
While his rulings have made him front-page news in India,
Kapadia has yet to grant an interview to the media and declined
to comment.  Community Isolation  “A judge must inevitably choose to be a little aloof and
isolated from the community,” the 63-year-old said in the
speech.  While India’s top court is now acting where the government
hasn’t -- for example stopping companies mining in areas of 
mineral-rich Karnataka state to protect the environment -- in 
the past other chief justices were closely aligned to the 
executive, said Bhagwan Dua, a professor at Canada’s University 
of Lethbridge.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  cautioned that the court may
be overreaching after it ordered the government to release food
stocks to the poor -- a response to litigation following media
reports of wheat and rice rotting in official warehouses.  “The Supreme Court, I think, should not go into the realm
of policy formulation,” Singh said at the time. “Those should
remain the concern of policy makers and the government.”  K.K. Venugopal , a Supreme Court lawyer, says the vigorous
way that Kapadia has responded to a range of public interest
litigation marks a break with the past and has empowered other
judges to hold the government to account.  License Rage  “He has brought about a completely new dimension” to the
role of  chief justice , Venugopal said in an interview. “When he
sets an example, then other judges become emboldened to take the
same type of action.”  The Supreme Court was instrumental in exposing India’s
biggest case of political corruption by overseeing the probe
into the sale of mobile-phone licenses, which the country’s
chief auditor estimated cost the state $31 billion. The
Delhi High Court had rejected an earlier plea to do so.  Former Telecoms Minister  Andimuthu Raja , billionaire Shahid Balwa, a managing director of Mumbai-based DB Realty, and nine
other executives await trial on charges of rigging the auction.
They have all denied any wrongdoing.  In March, the Supreme Court forced the resignation of P.J.
Thomas, the head of India’s anti-corruption unit and whose
appointment was approved by Singh, over allegations he accepted
a contract for importing  palm oil  at inflated prices in 1992.  UBS Allegations  Last month’s work included ordering an Indian state to
disband a locally trained militia used to back up the police 
fighting a Maoist insurgency, as well as the establishment 
of the team to pursue illegal funds in foreign banks.  UBS AG (UBSN)  in February denied allegations discussed at the
court that documents from the bank showed it assisted an Indian
businessman in  money laundering . The court’s July ruling
repeated those claims.  While Kapadia has helped hold the government to account, he
doesn’t deserve all the credit for the judiciary’s new found
activism, according to Laveesh Bhandari, a director of Indicus
Analytics, an economics research firm based in  New Delhi .  “His influence is not as great as people say,” Bhandari
said. “He is just one of a number of strong and independent
voices in the judiciary.”  Retirement Age  Kapadia, the longest serving Supreme Court judge at the
time, was named India’s chief justice by President Pratibha Patil in May last year. He is due to step down next year, when
he reaches the retirement age of 65.  Kapadia is allotted a government bungalow in Delhi’s
Lutyen’s district. His family’s assets, including his wife’s,
don’t exceed $250,000, according to a declaration he made when
appointed.  A lawyer since 1974, he specialized in legal disputes
involving land valuations, pensions and taxes before being
appointed an additional judge of the Bombay  High Court  in 1991.
His first job in law was as an office boy in a Mumbai law firm
carrying briefcases to court.  When selected to head India’s top court, he wrote about his
upbringing in a letter to a former judge. He noted that he began
government service in an entry-level position, as a “class IV”
employee.  “I come from a poor family,” he wrote to former Supreme
Court Judge V. R. Krishna Ayer. “The only asset I possess is my
integrity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in New Delhi
at   msrivastava6@bloomberg.net  and;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi
at   amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  and;
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 