-- 
England Routs India by 319 Runs to Move Closer to Top Cricket Test Ranking

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-02T01:06:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/england-all-out-for-544-leads-india-by-477-runs-in-second-cricket-test.html
England  secured the two-match lead it
needs to take cricket’s No. 1 Test ranking with a 319-run rout
of an Indian team that had twice been in potentially game-
winning positions.  After England racked up 544 to set India 478 for the
victory yesterday,  Tim Bresnan  took 5-48 to help skittle the
touring team for 158 on day four at Trent Bridge, Nottingham.  “It was an outstanding performance,” England captain
 Andrew Strauss  said in a news conference. “We had to dig very
deep; we were twice in a position where India looked very much
like favorites to win the game, and we dragged it round.”  England rallied from 88-6 to post 221 after being sent in
to bat on day one, and then took  India ’s last six wickets for 21
runs to trail by 67 runs on the first innings. Third-ranked
England, which won the series opener by 196 runs, can overtake
India atop the  International Cricket Council ’s  rankings  by
winning the best-of-four contest by two Tests or more.  England’s lower-order batsman, led by Bresnan’s 90 from 118
balls, added 103 runs to the second-innings total in yesterday’s
first session to put their team 477 runs ahead.  Stuart Broad  and  James Anderson  dismissed  Rahul Dravid  and
VVS Laxman to leave India at 13-2. Bresnan, playing in place of
the injured  Chris Tremlett , then took his first five-wicket
haul, including a mid-afternoon spell of 4-12, in elite Tests.  Anderson claimed 3-51, while Broad took 2-30 to finish with
eight wickets along with his 108 runs. His all-round performance
earned him the man-of-the-match award.  ‘Good Fight’  “Whoever we’re playing against we’ll always put up a good
fight and look to grab the game by the scruff of the neck when
that opportunity comes,” Broad told reporters. “We’ve done
that particularly well in these two Test matches.”  Of India’s top seven batsman, only  Sachin Tendulkar  reached
double figures yesterday with 56.  Harbhajan Singh  (46) and
 Praveen Kumar  (25) were the only other batsman to score more
than eight runs as India slumped to its heaviest runs defeat
against England.  “In a situation like this what you want to do is be at
your best as a team but we have not been really able to do
that,” said India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni. “That’s the
major difference between the two sides. We have some time to
regroup, so hopefully we’ll be at our best for the next Test.”  India, which has eight days to reorganize before the series
resumes at Edgbaston in Birmingham, hasn’t scored more than 300
in any of its innings in the first two matches.  Sehwag Boost  Dhoni said opening batsman Virender Sehwag, who hasn’t
played since having shoulder surgery in May, will join the squad
before India’s two-day tour match against English county team
Nottinghamshire, which starts Aug. 5.  “We’ll see how he goes in the practice game,” Dhoni said.
“Hopefully he can come and give the strength that is needed. We
all know what Virender Sehwag is capable of.”  Strauss, meantime, is already focused on the opening
session at Edgbaston after England won two Tests in a home
series against India for the first time since 1974.  Another victory, or two draws in the final two matches,
will take Strauss’s team atop the Test rankings for the first
time since they were introduced in 2003. England is a 1-7 chance
to be ranked No. 1 at the end of the series, according to U.K.
bookmaker William Hill Plc.  “All we’re looking to do is turn up at Edgbaston and try
and win that Test match,” Strauss added. “We’ve had to work
very hard for these two wins and we don’t expect anything
different in the next game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  