-- 
Tepco Says Highest Radiation Yet Is Detected at Fukushima Dai-Ichi

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-08-01T13:32:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/tepco-says-highest-radiation-yet-is-detected-at-fukushima-dai-ichi.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co., operator of
 Japan ’s crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, said it
detected the highest radiation to date at the site.  Geiger counters, used to detect radioactivity, registered
more than 10 sieverts an hour, the highest reading the devices
are able to record, Junichi Matsumoto, a general manager at the
utility, said today. The measurements were taken at the base of
the main ventilation stack for reactors No. 1 and No. 2.  The Fukushima plant, about 220 kilometers (137 miles) north
of Tokyo, had three reactor meltdowns after the March 11
magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami knocked out power and backup
generators. Radiation leaks displaced 160,000 people and
contaminated marine life and agricultural products.  The utility, known as Tepco, tried to vent steam and gas
the day after the earthquake as pressure in reactor No. 1
exceeded designed limits. A buildup of hydrogen gas subsequently
caused an explosion that blew out part of the reactor building.  “I suspect the high radiation quantity was an aftermath of
venting done,” Matsumoto told reporters in  Tokyo . “The plant
is not running. I don’t think any gas with high radiation level
is flowing in the stack.”  Tepco sent three workers around the ventilation stack today
after a gamma camera detected high radioactivity levels in the
area yesterday, Matsumoto said. The workers were exposed to as
much as 4 millisieverts during the work, he said.  The utility will create a no-go zone around the stack and
cover the area with protective material, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net . 