-- 
Erdogan Must Choose Peace After Taming Army, Kurdish Party Says

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-08-01T10:08:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/erdogan-must-choose-peace-after-taming-army-kurdish-party-says.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  has no more excuses for failing to engage in talks to
end fighting in the largely Kurdish southeast, after he asserted
control over the army, a top Kurdish politician said.  Erdogan’s government has cited the military as the main
obstacle in its efforts to end the three-decade conflict, Filiz
Kocali, co-leader of the Peace and Democracy Party, said in a
statement today. The resignation of four top generals last week,
leaving Erdogan in a position to control military promotions,
has ended the era of “anti-democratic autonomy” and military
tutelage over politics, Kocali said.  Erdogan faces a choice between following a policy of “war
and deadlock” or holding talks with representatives of the
Kurds, led by the jailed leader of the Kurdistan Workers’ Party
or PKK, Abdullah Ocalan, she said.  About 40,000 people have died in the PKK’s war for Kurdish
autonomy. The group is listed as a terrorist organization by
 Turkey , the U.S. and the European Union. Clashes between its
fighters and the Turkish army last month left 13 soldiers dead.  Dozens of Turkish generals are being held in jail in
connection with an alleged coup plot. Chief of General Staff
Isik Kosaner, who has retired along the heads of the air, sea
and land forces, said the trial cast the army as a “criminal
gang.”  Erdogan, who has pledged to rewrite the constitution
adopted after a 1980 coup, today began a four-day meeting with
army chiefs in Ankara to decide promotions for the highest
posts.  “No government can pursue a policy of deadlock and war
with regards to the Kurdish issue in a country where democratic
rights and freedoms will prevail and a civilian constitution
will be adopted,” Kocali said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler in Jerusalem at  lmeixler@bloomberg.net  