-- 
Espirito Santo First-Half Net Drops 45% to 156 Million Euros

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-08-01T18:08:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/espirito-santo-first-half-net-drops-45-to-156-million-euros-1-.html
Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) ,  Portugal ’s
biggest publicly traded bank by market value, said first-half
profit fell 45 percent on higher provisions.  Net income declined to 156 million euros ($222 million)
from 282 million euros a year earlier, Lisbon-based Espirito
Santo said today in a regulatory filing.  Net interest income slipped 0.6 percent to 543 million
euros and included a 10 percent decline at its Portuguese
operation. Provisions almost doubled to 469.7 million euros from
238.8 million euros, Espirito Santo said.  European Central Bank financing increased to 8.3 billion
euros at the end of June from 5.65 billion euros at the end of
March, according to the bank. The increase was related to a
large number of bond redemptions, Chief Executive Officer
Ricardo Salgado said in a press conference in Lisbon today.  Espirito Santo has been selling international loans and
sold a stake in  Brazil ’s Banco Bradesco SA in May to increase
its  capital ratios , as Portugal’s financial crisis has made
access to wholesale funding more difficult for Portuguese banks.
Portugal in April became the third euro-region country after
Greece and Ireland to request external aid.  The bank sold 1.4 billion euros in international loans in
the first half and plans to sell another 1.1 billion euros by
the end of the year, Chief Financial Officer Amilcar Morais
Pires said today.  The Bank of Portugal is requiring Portuguese lenders to
have core Tier 1 capital ratios of 9 percent by year-end and 10
percent by the end of 2012, as set out by the bailout plan.
Espirito Santo’s ratio stood at 8.2 percent at the end of June.  Salgado said the bank would take further actions to
strengthen its capital ratio this year and next but declined to
give details. “We have to wait for the troika’s analysis of the
Portuguese financial system to decide what decisions to take,”
Salgado said.  The Troika comprises the  European Central Bank , the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Commission.  Banco Espirito Santo and Espirito Santo Financial Group,
its parent company, plan to sell a 10 percent holding in Saxo
A/S of Denmark, Salgado said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  