-- 
Ethanol, Sugar Mill-Power Rules Could Create Jobs, Tongaat-Hulett CEO Says

-- B y   N i k i   M o o r e
-- 
2011-08-01T10:30:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/ethanol-sugar-mill-power-may-create-1-8-million-jobs-tongaat-says.html
Southern African countries could
create 1.8 million jobs if they adopted similar regulations to
 Brazil  governing the production of ethanol and electricity from
sugar, the Chief Executive Officer of Tongaat-Hulett Group Ltd.
said.  South African sugar companies such as Tongaat-Hulett, the
second-biggest producer of the sweetener on the continent, are
in talks with the government about the regulatory framework
needed to foster growth in the industry. The  Southern African
Development Community , or SADC, is a group of 15 southern
African countries including  South  Africa.  “The impact could be dramatic in terms of a regional
opportunity,” Peter Staude, Tongaat’s CEO, said in an interview
at the company annual general meeting in Tongaat, South Africa
on July 29. About “1.8 million people would be employed in
direct jobs in SADC. We are not just saying that, we have
calculated it.”  In Brazil, the world’s biggest sugar producer, gasoline is
25 percent made up of ethanol, bolstering demand for the
biofuel.  South Africa  is yet to legislate on whether ethanol
should be added to motor fuel and the country’s first commercial
bio-ethanol refinery is only due to start production in 2014.
That plant will use sorghum.  “With this region exporting sugar there would not be an
issue with  food security ,” Staude said.  Fiber produced as a waste product at sugar mills could also
be used to generate power, he said. Many mills already generate
electricity for their own use, he said.  “With some capital you can generate a huge amount of
energy from the same amount of fiber,” he said. “Once the
regulatory framework is in place, what will essentially happen
is that the power-generating plants we’ve got at all our mills
will be taken out and replaced with the latest technology that
will generate substantially more electricity. A typical mill
could generate 88 megawatts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niki Moore via the Johannesburg bureau at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  