-- 
Europe Stocks Drop 10% From Peak in First ‘Correction’ Among Major Regions

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-08-01T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/europe-stocks-drop-10-from-peak-in-first-correction-among-major-regions.html
European stocks dropped 10 percent
from this year’s high, becoming the first major region to enter
a so-called correction, as falling Spanish and Italian bonds
showed the debt crisis is spreading and U.S. manufacturing
trailed forecasts.  Banks, insurers and technology companies led the decline in
the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index from a 2 1/2-year high on
Feb. 17, driving the measure to a 2011 loss of 5 percent. Every
industry decreased more than 17 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s largest bank,
plunged 40 percent in the period and Commerzbank AG,  Germany ’s
second-largest lender, tumbled 47 percent.  The Stoxx 600 slid 1.2 percent to 262.02 yesterday. That
was the lowest level in eight months and extended the drop from
the latest peak to 10 percent, a retreat known as a correction.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has slipped 1.3 percent from its
high in May while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has declined
5.6 percent from its April peak amid concern the U.S. may lose
its top  credit rating  as lawmakers wrangle over an increase to
the nation’s debt ceiling.  “There are worries about debt in  Europe  and in the U.S.,
and that remains an element that weighs heavily on the market,”
said Guillaume Duchesne, an equity strategist at BGL BNP Paribas
SA in Luxembourg. “All that plays very unfavorably on
sentiment. In Europe, there is pressure on companies’ margins.
The situation remains fragile.”  Earnings Misses  More European companies have missed analysts’ estimates
since July 11 than in any earnings season in at least five
years. About 52 percent of companies in the Stoxx 600 have
posted earnings that fell short of projections, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, compared with 78 percent of S&P 500
companies that have exceeded forecasts.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index
slumped to 50.9, the lowest since July 2009, from 55.3 a month
earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said yesterday. Figures
less than 50 signal contraction. A report last week showed the
world’s largest economy grew less than forecast in the second
quarter and almost stalled in the prior period.  Republican leaders voiced optimism yesterday that Congress
will pass a compromise with President  Barack Obama  to raise the
U.S. debt limit by at least $2.1 trillion by today’s deadline.
Even so, both S&P and Moody’s Investors Service are weighing
whether to cut the nation’s credit rating. The political impasse
boosted to 50 percent the chance that S&P will downgrade the
U.S. from AAA within three months, the company said last month.  ‘Biggest Threat’  “Observers tend to believe that even though a downgrade of
the U.S. credit rating is possible, it will not be the end of
the world as there is no other credible alternative,” said
Stephane Ekolo, chief European strategist at Market Securities
in  London . “Therefore, it is not unsurprising that investors
are looking into euro-zone debt believing this is where the
biggest threat remains.”  In April,  Portugal  followed  Greece  and Ireland to become
the third euro-region nation to seek a rescue from the European
Union. S&P has reduced its rating on Greece to CC, two steps
above default, from BB+ on Feb. 17, and Moody’s has cut its
stance to Ca from Ba1.  Euro-area leaders were forced to announce 159 billion euros
($227 billion) in additional aid for Greece on July 21 and
cajoled bondholders into footing part of the bill. The yield on
10-year Italian bonds had surged to a euro-era record of 6.027
percent three days earlier.  The valuation of the Stoxx 600 has fallen to 10.7 times its
companies’ forecast earnings, from 11.5 times at the measure’s
peak this year, Bloomberg data show. That’s near the cheapest
since April 2009.  Banks Drop  The Stoxx 600 Banks Index led the broader market lower,
plunging 26 percent since Feb. 17. UniCredit retreated 40
percent, while  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the Italy’s second-biggest
lender, decreased 39 percent. Commerzbank tumbled 47 percent and
Deutsche Bank AG declined 23 percent.  Three Italian lenders lost more than half their market
value. Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl tumbled 54 percent, Banco
Popolare SC sank 55 percent and Unione di Banche Italiane ScpA
plummeted 58 percent.  In Greece, EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA slumped 41 percent and
National Bank of Greece SA slid 39 percent.  The Stoxx Insurance 600 Index sank 17 percent as all but
one of its 33 constituents retreated. Aegon NV slumped 30
percent, while  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , Europe’s fourth-
largest insurer by sales, tumbled 24 percent. ING Groep NV, the
biggest Dutch financial-services company, and  Munich Re , the
world’s largest reinsurer, both decreased 19 percent.  Technology Shares Tumble  The Stoxx 600 Technology Index slumped 17 percent as
Alcatel-Lucent SA,  France ’s biggest telecommunications equipment
maker, declined 28 percent. Logitech International SA, the
world’s largest maker of computer mice, sank 59 percent as the
company posted a first-quarter loss that was wider than analysts
had estimated.  The Stoxx 600 Travel & Leisure Index plunged 13 percent as
 Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  lost 67 percent, the biggest drop of any
company on the Stoxx 600 since the gauge’s peak this year.  Europe’s second-largest tour operator cut its full-year
profit forecast on July 12, predicting that its operating profit
in the year ending in September will fall to 320 million pounds
($521 million) from 362 million pounds in 2010. Analysts had
estimated operating profit of 382 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  