-- 
Euro-Area Unemployment Rate Remains at 9.9% for Fourth Month

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-08-01T09:04:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/euro-area-unemployment-rate-remains-at-9-9-for-fourth-month.html
European unemployment held steady for
a fourth month in June as economic growth in the region showed
signs of cooling and governments struggled to convince investors
they can contain the debt crisis.  The 17-nation euro region’s seasonally adjusted jobless
rate remained at 9.9 percent, the European Union statistics
office in Luxembourg said in an e-mailed statement today. That’s
in line with the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
33 economists. At 21 percent,  Spain  had the highest jobless rate
and Austria the lowest at 4 percent.  Companies in many euro-region countries are reluctant to
boost hiring as governments cut spending to plug deficits as the
recovery falters. Manufacturing growth slowed in July and
European economic confidence weakened. Debt-burdened Greece and
Portugal are struggling to emerge from recessions.  “We’ve seen a sharp economic slowdown recently and the
debt crisis has also started to affect business decisions,”
said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN Amro Bank NV in
Amsterdam. “We could even see some renewed upward pressure on
unemployment in the coming months.”  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.4407 at 11:02 a.m. in Brussels.  BMW Hiring Plans  Germany, which has driven euro-region growth fueled by
exports, is the main exception. Unemployment in  Europe ’s largest
economy held at 6.1 percent in June.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of
 luxury vehicles , will hire 2,000 people this year, about half of
them in Germany.  France’s jobless rate rose to 9.7 percent from 9.6 percent
in May, while unemployment in Italy eased to 8 percent from 8.1
percent.  About 15.6 million people were unemployed in the euro area
in June, up 18,000 from the previous month, today’s report
showed. In the 27-nation EU, the  unemployment rate  remained at
9.4 percent.  U.S. unemployment increased to 9.2 percent, according to
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  