-- 
Europe Seeks to Revive UN Resolution Condemning Syria’s Assad on Crackdown

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-01T18:32:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/europe-seeks-to-revive-un-resolution-comdemning-syria-s-assad-on-crackdown.html
U.S. and European allies today are
seeking to resuscitate efforts at the United Nations to pressure
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to halt the bloodiest crackdown
yet on anti-government protesters.  In response to a German call, the UN  Security Council  will
meet today at 5 p.m. in  New York  to discuss the escalating
violence in Syria, where security forces killed more than 150
people over the last two days.  China ,  Russia ,  Brazil ,  South
Africa  and  India  -- which has taken over the council’s rotating
monthly presidency -- have blocked adoption of a draft
resolution first circulated on May 25.  The attack on Hama, accounting for the bulk of the deaths,
is among the most vicious episodes in the uprising that began
more than four months ago and was unleashed at the start of the
holy Muslim month of Ramadan. The Security Council must urgently
respond to the ongoing slaughter by referring the situation to
the  International Criminal Court ,  Amnesty International  said.  “Our intention at that meeting is to circulate an updated
version of our resolution and we are thinking of calling
negotiations at the ambassadorial level tomorrow morning on that
text,” Britain’s ambassador to the UN, Mark Lyall Grant,  said
today. “There are some indications that positions are
shifting.”  U.S., French Criticism  French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said that “in these
horrifying circumstances,  France  hopes more than ever that the
United Nations Security Council will shoulder its
responsibilities by speaking out loud and clear.”  U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice today said “it is past time for
action.” In his most strongly worded criticism of Assad so far,
President  Barack Obama  said yesterday that he was “appalled”
by the Syrian government’s “brutality.” The U.S. is
considering issuing additional oil and gas sanctions against
 Syria  as a means of ratcheting up pressure on the regime.  “Stepped-up rhetoric is important, even if it alone will
not be decisive,” said  Robert Danin , a senior fellow at the
Council on Foreign Relations in  Washington . “The international
community alone cannot stop Assad immediately, short of some
sort of military intervention, and there is no chance of that
happening anytime in the foreseeable future.”  The European Union imposed an asset freeze and travel ban
on five Syrians “responsible for and associated with
repression,”  Catherine Ashton , the EU’s foreign policy chief,
said in an e-mailed statement, without identifying the people.  Russia Toughens Stance  In a sign of that Russian opposition to some form of UN
action may be thawing, the Foreign Ministry in Moscow put out
its  toughest statement  yet on Syria, saying the use of force
against civilians is “unacceptable” and “should be stopped.”
Officials in Moscow have been reluctant to speak on what they
see as a domestic matter.  “This statement serves as a kind of insurance policy for
Moscow to take further steps at the UN,”  Fyodor Lukyanov , an
analyst at the Council on Foreign and Defense Policy in Moscow,
said by telephone.  Still, U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague told  BBC  Radio
4 that getting the UN’s decision-making body to act will be
“difficult work.”  “What happened over the weekend is terrible and must be
condemned by everybody,” the South African ambassador to the
UN, Baso Sangqu, told reporters today. “We would prefer that
there is political reform that takes into account the legitimate
demands of the Syrian people.”  Ramadan  Government forces resumed their assault on Hama today, the
first day of Ramadan, shelling the city early this morning and
destroying four buildings, while also attacking the eastern city
of Deir al-Zour and the town of Bukamal, Mahmoud Merhi, head of
the Damascus-based Arab Organization for Human Rights, said by
telephone.  At least 10 people were killed today, Merhi said, while
Syrian state television said yesterday that an army colonel and
two other soldiers were killed by armed men in Deir al-Zour.  The latest assault came as opposition forces vowed to step
up their campaign against Assad during Ramadan. Family and
community groups typically gather for evening meals during the
month to break their fasts, and more people attend special
services at mosques. That may make it easier for opposition
leaders to organize daily rallies along the lines of those held
for the past four months after Friday prayers.  The government “has been very frightened by Ramadan’s
onset,” Joshua Landis, a Syria specialist who directs the
Center for Middle East Studies at the University of Oklahoma in
Norman, said in a telephone interview. “The unfolding crackdown
is going to fuel people’s anger.”  No Military Intervention  German Foreign Ministry spokesman Martin Schaefer told
reporters in Berlin that it remained to be seen whether the
violence over the weekend will prompt reluctant partners to
change their position.  “There is no prospect of a legal, morally sanctioned
military intervention; therefore we have to concentrate on other
ways of influencing the Assad regime and trying to help the
situation in Syria,” Hague told the BBC. “It is a very
frustrating situation.”  At least 2,000 protesters have been killed since the
demonstrations began in mid-March, according to Merhi and Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human Rights.  The unrest poses the biggest challenge to Assad’s rule
since he inherited power from his father, Hafez al-Assad, 11
years ago. Assad has blamed the protests on foreign-inspired
plots, while conceding that some demonstrators have legitimate
demands and pledging political changes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the  United Nations  at   fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  