-- 
Teva’s Copaxone Successor Fails in Latest Clinical Trial

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-08-01T20:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/teva-s-oral-multiple-sclerosis-drug-fails-to-meet-goal-of-clinical-trial.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s
experimental multiple sclerosis pill failed to reduce relapses
more than placebo in a clinical trial, dealing a blow to the
company’s effort to find a successor to an older drug.  The medicine, laquinimod, missed the key goal of the study,
the Petach Tikva, Israel-based drugmaker said today in a
statement. By contrast, a third group of patients who got
Avonex, an older injected treatment from  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , had
fewer relapses than those who got a placebo. Teva’s American
depositary receipts fell the most in more than three months.  The study reported today, known as Bravo, is the second
this year to show disappointing results for the medicine.
Analysts expressed skepticism on a conference call with company
executives that Teva would be able to win approval from the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration for laquinimod. Teva said it aims
to submit the drug by early next year.  “Laquinimod is dead, if not regulatorily, then
commercially,” Ori Hershkovitz, a partner at Sphera Funds
Management Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said by e-mail. Sphera doesn’t have
a position in Teva shares.  Teva’s American depositary receipts fell $2.88, or 6.2
percent, to $43.76 at 4 p.m. in  New York , the biggest single-day
drop since April 21.  Active Biotech AB (ACTI) , which is developing
laquinimod with Teva, fell the most in at least 19 years,
according to Bloomberg data.  Statistical Adjustments  Some patients who were given the drug showed differences
visible in MRI scans from those who got placebo, and laquinimod
performed better than a dummy when a statistical adjustment was
done to correct those imbalances, Teva said.  “This is not a company trying to take bad data and make it
look good,” Bill Marth, president of U.S. operations for Teva,
told analysts on a conference call today, referring to the
adjustment.  Laquinimod reduced relapses by 17.6 percent versus placebo,
though the result wasn’t statistically significant, Teva
executives said on the call. After accounting for the MRI
differences, laquinimod showed a statistically significant 21
percent reduction in relapses. Biogen’s Avonex cut relapses by
29 percent after the adjustment and by 26 percent prior to it,
executives said.  Teva needs the once-daily pill to replace sales it’s
expected to lose as its best-selling drug Copaxone, an injected
treatment, faces competition from the first approved multiple
sclerosis pill,  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gilenya.  Allegro Trial  A previous late-stage trial, Allegro, showed that
laquinimod worked. The drug reduced relapses by 23 percent
compared with a placebo and cut disability progression by 36
percent, Teva said in April. Still, those results fell short of
investors’ expectations.  The FDA requires two successful late-stage clinical trials
before approving MS drugs, so a third study is likely to be
necessary,  Marc Goodman  of UBS AG wrote in a note to investors
today. The New York-based analyst, who had been predicting $100
million in 2015 sales for laquinimod, eliminated those from his
estimates based on today’s results. He rates Teva’s shares
“buy.” Teva executives said they’re confident they can submit
laquinimod for approval based on the Allegro and Bravo trials.  Earnings Estimate  Failure for laquinimod to win approval may cost Teva $627
million in sales in 2015, reducing earnings per share by 61
cents, Ronny Gal, a New York-based analyst for Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., wrote in a note to investors today. Gal rates
Teva’s shares “outperform.”  Active Biotech, based in Lund,  Sweden , plunged 42.15
kronor, or 54 percent, to 36.60 kronor in Stockholm trading.
Biogen gained $1.03, or 1 percent, to $102.90 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  Multiple sclerosis causes the immune system to attack the
insulating tissue around nerve fibers, slowly depriving patients
of mobility, balance and coordination. The disease affects about
2.1 million people worldwide, many of whom have trouble sticking
with injected or infused therapies because they’re difficult to
use or have side effects, according to the  National MS Society ,
a New York-based patient group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  