-- 
Teva Posting Biggest Healthcare Drop in U.S.: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-08-02T15:08:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/teva-posting-biggest-healthcare-drop-in-u-s-israel-overnight.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, is posting the
biggest decline among U.S.-traded healthcare companies on
concern its multiple sclerosis treatment won’t receive approval
from American regulators.  Teva’s American depositary receipts fell 6.2 percent
yesterday on the  Nasdaq  Stock Market to $43.76, the lowest level
since April 2009. The shares have plunged 16 percent this year,
the most among 58 U.S.-traded health care companies with a
minimum market value of $10 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Shares in Israel climbed to 151.7 shekels, or the
equivalent of $43.82, at the close in Tel Aviv today.  Laquinimod, the experimental multiple sclerosis pill
produced by the Petach Tikva, Israel-based drugmaker didn’t
reduce relapses more than placebo in a clinical trial, Teva said
yesterday in a statement. The study, known as Bravo, is the
second this year to show disappointing results for the medicine.
The company is still “very confident” in the drug, Bill Marth,
president of U.S. operations, said in a conference call with
investors yesterday.  “What worries people is that management is creating an
expectation that this drug is approvable but that may not be the
case,” said David Amsellem, an analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co.
in New York. “It becomes incredibly frustrating for investors
who see this setback in this trial, and they see management
downplaying those setbacks.”  E-mail messages seeking comment sent after hours to Yossi Koren, Teva’s spokesman, weren’t answered.  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index  Teva’s drop pushed the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the
largest Israeli companies traded in New York down 3.8 percent
yesterday to 94.88, the biggest decline since April 21. The
measure retreated 8.5 percent year to date.  Israel ’s benchmark TA-25 Index fell 1 percent in Tel Aviv
today, bringing the loss for the year to 10 percent, or 8.4
percent in dollar terms, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Laquinimod missed the key goal of the study, Teva said
yesterday. By contrast, a third group of patients who got
Avonex, an older injected treatment from Biogen Idec Inc., had
fewer relapses than those who got a placebo.  Some patients who were given the drug showed differences
visible in MRI scans from those who got a placebo, and
laquinimod performed better than a dummy when a statistical
adjustment was done to correct those imbalances, Teva said.  “This is not a company trying to take bad data and make it
look good,” Marth told analysts on a conference call yesterday,
referring to the adjustment.  Relapses  Laquinimod reduced relapses by 17.6 percent versus placebo,
though the result wasn’t statistically significant, Teva
executives said on the call. After accounting for the MRI
differences, laquinimod showed a statistically significant 21
percent reduction in relapses. Biogen’s Avonex cut relapses by
29 percent after the adjustment and by 26 percent prior to it,
executives said.  Teva needs the once-daily pill to replace sales it is
expected to lose as its best-selling drug Copaxone, an injected
treatment, faces competition from the first approved multiple
sclerosis pill, Novartis AG’s Gilenya.  “If a trial misses its primary endpoint, it is a
failure,”  Corey Davis , an analyst at Jefferies Group Inc.,
wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday. “We are now assuming
laquinimod is not an approvable drug.”  Multiple Sclerosis Incidence  Multiple sclerosis, which affects about 2.1 million people
worldwide, is a chronic and incurable disease that destroys the
nerves and robs patients of their ability to control their
movements. Many patients have trouble staying on current
therapies because they’re difficult to use or cause side
effects, according to the  National Multiple Sclerosis Society .  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
 Switzerland ’s, has 57 companies traded on the Nasdaq, the most
of any country outside the U.S. after  China . The country is also
home to the largest number of startup companies per capita in
the world.  The shekel fell 0.9 percent to 3.4630 per  U.S. dollar  at
5:52 p.m. in  Tel Aviv . The currency has increased 8.5 percent
versus the dollar over the past 12 months, the third-best
performer among 10 emerging markets in  Europe ,  Middle East  and
 Africa  tracked by Bloomberg.  Israeli technology companies raised $569 million in capital
during the second quarter of 2011, the most in two years and up
from $343 million in the same period last year, according to the
Israel Venture Capital-KPMG Quarterly Survey released July 13.  Stock Market Upgrade  Israel’s stock market was upgraded to developed market
status by MSCI Inc. in May 2010, the same month the 63-year-old
country was accepted to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  rose 8 percent to $16, the
biggest gain in almost two weeks. The Tel Aviv-traded shares
climbed 1.1 percent yesterday to 52.04 shekels, or the
equivalent of $15.19, leaving the  New York  shares premium at 83
cents above the Tel Aviv shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. They dropped to 50.99 shekels in Tel Aviv today.  Israel’s biggest maker of high-speed networking equipment
posted a second-quarter profit of $1.6 million after a loss of
$7.4 million in the year-earlier period, according to a
PRNewswire statement yesterday. Separately, the company said
yesterday it will issue 4.5 million shares to the public while
holders offer 965,000 shares.  Protalix  Orbotech Ltd. (ORBK) , the Israeli maker of quality-control
equipment for the electronics industry, increased 8.6 percent to
$12.19 yesterday.  The company reported second-quarter adjusted earnings of 56
cents per share, beating the median estimate of two analysts of
48 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Protalix BioTherapeutics Inc. (PLX) , the Israeli biotechnology
company that is developing a treatment for Gaucher disease,
advanced for a third day, adding 3.1 percent to $6.64. The Tel
Aviv shares increased 3.4 percent to 22.53 shekels, or the
equivalent of $6.59. They were little changed at 22.54 shekels
in Tel Aviv today.  The company submitted its reply to the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  after the regulator’s review of the company’s
application for taliglucerase alfa, which is in development for
the treatment of Gaucher disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  