-- 
Fleishman Asks Judge to Bar Use of Insider Trading Wiretaps

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-02T00:01:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/ex-primary-global-manager-seeks-to-bar-wiretaps-from-insider-trading-trial.html
James Fleishman, a former  Primary
Global Research LLC  sales manager charged in an  insider trading 
investigation, asked a judge to suppress evidence derived from
wiretaps of more than 100 callers to the so-called expert
networking firm.  Ethan Balogh, a lawyer for Fleishman, told U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan that authorities failed to prove
they needed the wiretaps to pursue the investigation. The
evidence shouldn’t be used against his client, he argued.  “This wiretap of these lines was not necessary,” Balogh
said at a court hearing today.  Fleishman is scheduled to be tried on two counts of
conspiracy Aug. 29. Rakoff, who will preside over the trial,
said he will decide by Aug. 8 whether to grant Fleishman’s
request, or to hold an evidentiary hearing.  Primary Global, based in  Mountain View ,  California , is at
the center of a nationwide probe of insider trading at  hedge
funds , technology companies, banks and consulting firms.
Winifred Jiau, a former Primary Global consultant, was convicted
of  securities fraud  and conspiracy on June 20 after a trial
before Rakoff.  The wiretap application targeted particular identification
numbers assigned to Primary Global employees and clients, which
were used to access conference calls between expert consultants
and Primary Global clients, mostly hedge funds and mutual funds.  In October 2009, U.S. District Judge Kevin Duffy signed an
order permitting the government to listen in on two conference
lines used by Primary Global. Fleishman argued in court papers
that the wiretap request targeted at least 93 Primary Global
clients not suspected of any crime and was therefore too broad.  The case is U.S. v. Fleishman, 11-CR-32, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 