-- 
Food Inflation, Trade Data, Bharti Earnings: India Week Ahead

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-01T02:43:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/food-inflation-trade-data-bharti-earnings-india-week-ahead.html
India  will today release trade data
for the month of June, while weekly food price inflation figures
and monthly manufacturing output data are slated for later in
the week.  India’s export growth slowed in June from a seven-year
high, according to figures released last month by  Rahul Khullar ,
the commerce ministry’s top bureaucrat. Merchandise shipments
from the country rose 46.4 percent to $29.2 billion in June from
a year earlier, Khullar said July 8 in  New Delhi .   Exports
jumped 56.9 percent in May from a year earlier, the biggest gain
since March 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from
previously reported figures.  India’s food inflation decelerated to the slowest pace
since February 2009 after prices of pulses, milk, meat and fish
eased. An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products gained 7.33 percent in the week ended July 16 from a
year earlier, the commerce ministry said July 28. Data for the
week ended July 23 will be released in New Delhi on Aug. 4.  The HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics monthly
purchasing managers’ index for July is due to be released Aug.
3. The gauge, a measure of India’s manufacturing output, stood
at 55.3 in June. A reading over 50 indicates expansion.  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , India’s largest maker of sport-
utilities vehicles and tractors, is among companies reporting
first-quarter results this week. The company is scheduled to
report today.  Power Grid Corp. of India Ltd., the nation’s biggest
transmission company, will report on Aug. 2, while  Bharti Airtel
Ltd. (BHARTI) , the nation’s biggest mobile-phone service provider, and
 Hindustan Copper Ltd. (HCP) , India’s monopoly miner of the metal, will
report on Aug. 3. Indian Hotels Co., operator of the Taj Group
of Hotels, will report Aug. 4.  Stocks, Rupee  Indian stocks had their biggest monthly decline since
January amid concern the U.S. won’t reach an agreement on
raising its federal debt limit in time to avoid a default, and
on speculation domestic interest rises will erode corporate
earnings and slow growth.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
retreated 3.4 percent in July, its biggest slide since the 11
percent loss in January. Jaiprakash Associates Ltd., a builder
of dams, roads and bridges, and Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd.,
biggest power-equipment maker, were the biggest loser this
month.  India’s rupee had its biggest monthly gain since March
after foreign funds pumped cash into the nation’s assets to take
advantage of its yield advantage over developed countries. The
rupee strengthened 1.1 percent in July to 44.19 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It rose 0.4 percent
last week.  India’s 10-year government bonds completed the worst week
in almost seven months after the central bank raised  interest
rates  last week, making it more expensive to buy debt with
borrowed funds. The yield on the 7.8 percent debt due April 2021
rose this week by 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to
8.45 percent, according to central bank data. Earlier, it
touched 8.48 percent the highest level for a benchmark note
since September 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  