-- 
Ex-AIG, General Re Officers Win Retrial After Convictions Tossed

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-08-02T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/former-gen-re-aig-executives-get-insurance-fraud-convictions-thrown-out.html
A former executive at  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and four at General Reinsurance Corp.
won reversal of their convictions on charges that they defrauded
AIG investors of as much as $597 million.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York yesterday ordered a
new trial for ex-General Re Chief Executive Officer Ronald Ferguson, ex-Chief Financial Officer Elizabeth Monrad, ex-Senior
Vice President Christopher Garand and ex-Assistant General
Counsel Robert Graham. Former AIG Vice President Christian Milton also won a new trial. Federal jurors in Hartford,
 Connecticut , convicted them in 2008 after a six-week trial.  Prosecutors said the fraud involved a sham transaction in
2000 and 2001 to inflate AIG’s loss reserves by $500 million. It
preceded the financial crisis of New York-based AIG, which got a
bailout of $182.3 billion from U.S. taxpayers. The appeals court
said the judge erroneously let prosecutors show jurors three
charts with AIG stock-price data.  “The charts suggested that this transaction caused AIG’s
shares to plummet 12 percent during the relevant time period,
which is without foundation, and (given the role of AIG in the
financial panic) prejudicially cast the defendants as causing an
economic downturn that has affected every family in America,” a
three-judge appeals panel ruled.  U.S. District Judge Christopher Droney also erred by
improperly instructing the jury on causation, according to the
 77-page opinion .  Free on Bail  Droney had sentenced Milton to four years in prison,
Ferguson to two years, Monrad to 18 months, and Garand and
Graham each to one year. They were free on bail pending appeal.
Two General Re executives who pleaded guilty testified as
prosecution witnesses and were sentenced to probation.  Prosecutors used the stock charts to show the transaction
at the heart of the trial was important to investors, and to
“emphasize the losses” it caused, according to the opinion.
While two stock analysts and an AIG investor-relations manager
testified to the transaction’s importance, prosecutors also
could have called an expert, according to the three-judge panel.  “The expert could, for example, estimate the extent of the
12 percent drop attributable” to the transaction, they ruled.  The trial featured testimony about  Warren Buffett , chairman
of Omaha, Nebraska-based  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , which owns
General Re. He wasn’t charged with a crime and denied
wrongdoing.  Reserves Fell  AIG said on Oct. 26, 2000, that premiums increased in the
third quarter of that year as loss reserves for claims fell.
Five days later, former AIG CEO Maurice “Hank” Greenberg
called Ferguson and asked him to help with AIG’s reserves, a key
measure of an insurer’s health.  Prosecutors said Greenberg was an unindicted co-
conspirator. He denied wrongdoing and wasn’t charged with a
crime.  Greenberg is still defending a civil lawsuit over the
transaction filed in 2005 by  Eliot Spitzer  when he was New York
attorney general.  “The decision does not affect this office’s case and it
will proceed,” Lauren Passalacqua, a spokeswoman for the
current attorney general,  Eric Schneiderman , said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Substantially Weakens’  Greenberg’s attorney,  David Boies , said the reversal
“substantially weakens” the attorney general’s lawsuit because
the convictions “have always been a critical underpinning” of
the civil case.  “It’s always difficult for a prosecutor to admit that a
case is disappearing on them,” Boies said in a telephone
interview. “But an objective observer would say that there
really is not a basis for continuing to waste taxpayer money
pursuing it. Anybody who says this doesn’t affect their case is
whistling past the graveyard.”  General Re agreed last year to pay more than $92 million to
settle investor claims and end U.S. investigations over its role
in sham transactions with AIG and Prudential Financial Inc.  The company agreed to pay $19.5 million to the U.S. Postal
Inspection Service Consumer Fraud Fund, $12.2 million to the
Securities and Exchange Commission and $60.5 million to AIG
shareholders in a class-action settlement.  General Re  previously
forfeited $5 million in fees linked to the AIG scheme. The deal
let General Re avoid prosecution by the U.S. Justice Department
and resolved an SEC lawsuit.  ‘Very Gratified’  “We’re very gratified by the court’s decision,” said
 Frederick Hafetz , Milton’s attorney. “We look forward to the
new trial for Mr. Milton.”  Lawyers for the other defendants and a Justice Department
spokeswoman didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment
yesterday.  “We’re very gratified by the court’s decision,” said
Graham’s attorney, Alan Vinegrad.  General Re was involved in sham transactions with AIG from
2000 to 2005 and a Prudential division from 1997 to 2002 that
helped the two companies manipulate financial statements, the
SEC said in a complaint in federal court in  Manhattan . General
Re admitted it helped AIG overstate loss reserves by $500
million.  The case is U.S. v. Ferguson, 08-6211, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit ( New York ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 