-- 
Former Ernst & Young Executives Barred Over Fake Documents

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-08-01T21:31:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/former-ernst-young-executives-barred-by-pcaob-over-fake-papers.html
The U.S. audit industry watchdog
barred two former Ernst & Young LP executives over claims they
drafted fake working papers to mislead regulators who were
planning to inspect their work.  Peter O’Toole , who was a partner at Ernst & Young, agreed
to pay a $50,000 fine and will be banned from the industry for
at least three years, the  Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board  said in a statement today. Darrin Estella, a former
manager at the New York-based firm, was barred for at least two
years for his role in creating the documents, the PCAOB said.  After learning that the PCAOB planned to inspect a 2009
audit, O’Toole told Estella to create and backdate a document
related to a review of how their client valued an investment,
the PCAOB said. Estella drafted the document on another
employee’s laptop using a flash drive, which he later threw away
in an effort to hide the misconduct.  “These actions threatened to undermine the integrity of
PCAOB inspection processes, and the ability of the Board to
discharge its mandate to inspect the auditors of public
companies, PCAOB Chairman James Doty said in a statement.  O’Toole and Estella resolved the claims without admitting
or denying the allegations, the PCAOB said. William Lovett,
Estella’s lawyer at Collora LLP, declined to comment.  ‘‘The PCAOB has not alleged any deficiencies in the
carrying out of the audit, or that any of the alleged conduct
was designed to hide an audit failure,” Eugene Goldman,
O’Toole’s attorney at McDermott Will & Emery, said in a
telephone interview.  The PCAOB, created by the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  of 2002 to
oversee auditors of public companies, instituted nonpublic
disciplinary hearings against O’Toole and Estella in December.
Ernst & Young wasn’t accused of wrongdoing by the regulator.  ‘Cooperated Fully’  “When we determined that firm policy had been violated, we
subsequently separated the partner and senior management from
the firm,” Ernst & Young spokesman  Charles Perkins  said in a
statement. “We have cooperated fully with the PCAOB throughout
its investigation of this matter. The conduct described in the
order had no impact on our audit conclusions or on the client’s
financial statements.”  O’Toole’s three-year bar was the longest the PCAOB has
imposed on a so-called Big 4 accounting firm, the Washington-
based regulator said in its statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  