-- 
Franklin Shares Top Rivals as Investors Put Stock in World Bonds

-- B y   L a u r a   K e e l e y
-- 
2011-08-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/franklin-beats-all-rivals-as-investors-put-stock-in-top-global-bund-funds.html
Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  is beating
every money manager in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index this
year. The reason may be investor disdain for equities in the
U.S., one of the world’s few stock markets showing a gain.  Franklin rose 14 percent through July 29, while S&P’s 11-
member index of large asset managers and custody banks fell 10
percent. Shareholders are paying almost three times as much for
every dollar Franklin manages as they shell out for  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) ’s $3.7 trillion in assets, and more than four times as much
as they’re willing to pay for  Legg Mason Inc. (LM)   The firm, which has built itself from a family business
into a global  fund manager  with 89 percent of assets outside
domestic equities, is benefiting as investors put more money
into international stocks and bonds.  Michael Hasenstab ,
Morningstar’s 2010 fixed-income manager of the year, attracted
$10.9 billion through June into his Templeton Global Bond Fund,
the most of any U.S. mutual fund, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   “The big shift in the last few years,” Chief Executive
Officer Gregory Johnson said in an interview, “is people want
to diversify and maintain purchasing power. That’s really where
global bonds have been such a perfect fit.”  Franklin, based in San Mateo, California, with offices in
more than 30 countries, saw assets grow 29 percent in 12 months.
The firm, the fifth-largest U.S. mutual-fund company, had $734.2
billion under management at midyear, including $83.6 billion in
domestic equities.  Industrywide, 43 percent of the money overseen by stock and
bond managers is in U.S. equities, according to Morningstar, the
Chicago-based research firm.  ‘The Most Global’  “Franklin is the most global asset manager,” Jonathan Casteleyn, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group, said in a
telephone interview. “They have the ability to search out and
find the  bull market .”  The company may report a 35 percent increase in fiscal
third-quarter profit to $485 million tomorrow, according to the
average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Mutual funds that focus on U.S. equities lost an estimated
$8 billion to redemptions this year through June 29, according
to data from the Investment Company Institute in  Washington .
Clients poured about $104 billion into Franklin’s bond funds in
the two years ended March 31, while pulling $2.9 billion from
the firm’s stock funds.  Franklin’s stock has more than tripled since the  S&P 500 
fell to a 12-year low on March 9, 2009. S&P’s asset-manager
index has almost doubled.  Market Premium  Stockholders are willing to pay for Franklin’s breadth. The
firm’s premium to assets under management, used to calculate the
market value for fund companies relative to their managed
assets, rose to 3.1 percent as of March 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The ratio was 1.2 percent for BlackRock, which became the
world’s biggest  money manager  with the $15.2 billion acquisition
of  Barclays Global Investors  in December 2009. Baltimore-based
Legg Mason had a ratio of 0.7 percent. The number is calculated
by subtracting tangible common equity from the company’s market
value and dividing by assets under management.  Franklin sticks to a long-term outlook and favors countries
with low debt.  World bonds accounted for 43 percent of long-term sales and
$56.5 billion in net new deposits in 2010. Many of its funds,
including those run by Hasenstab and  Mark Mobius , executive
chairman of Templeton’s emerging-markets group, have invested
heavily in  Asia .  “If we get into an environment where there’s massive
credit risk, either rates rising or if they get some of their
investments wrong, we could see some outflows,” Casteleyn said.
“The hypergrowth will come out.”  Family Stakes  Johnson, 50, is the grandson of Rupert H. Johnson, who
founded the firm in  New York  in 1947, a year after Edward C.
Johnson Jr. started Fidelity Investments in Boston. The two
aren’t related. Rupert’s son Charles B. Johnson, 78, took over
as CEO in 1957 and is now chairman. Charles’s brother, Rupert Johnson Jr., 70, joined in 1965 and is vice chairman.  The three Johnsons, Gregory Johnson’s sister Jennifer M. Johnson, who is the chief operating officer, and Peter M. Sacerdote, a brother-in-law of Charles Johnson and Rupert
Johnson Jr., own about 34 percent of the company’s stock worth
$9.46 billion, Bloomberg data show. The shares have soared more
than 4,000 times in value since Franklin’s initial public
offering in 1971, based on the split-adjusted price.  The Johnsons don’t take large salaries by industry
standards, said  Geoff Bobroff , a fund consultant in  East
Greenwich , Rhode Island, in a telephone interview.  The average reported compensation for executives at
Franklin is $3.58 million, compared with $7.12 million at peer
companies, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Cash Cow’  “They tend to not make many mistakes,” Casteleyn said of
the Johnsons. “They say they pay back 60 to 80 percent of their
net income either in the form of dividends or share buybacks.
It’s a cash cow.”  Acquisitions helped fuel Franklin’s growth. The firm bought
 California  investment boutique Winfield & Co. in 1973 and moved
to San Mateo. Franklin acquired Templeton, Galbraith &
Hansberger Ltd., headed by Sir John Templeton, the fund pioneer
known for international investing, in 1992, and still operates
overseas under the Templeton name. The company purchased the
adviser to Michael Price’s Mutual Series Fund Inc. in 1996 to
broaden its domestic stock lineup.  “Templeton has been a huge machine for Franklin in terms
of gathering assets,” Bobroff said. “Franklin has tended to
leave the people, at least from a money-management standpoint,
somewhat autonomous.”  ‘Why Limit Yourself?’  A version of the Templeton Global Bond Fund based in
Luxembourg attracted $5.89 billion this year through May, the
most among long-term funds outside the U.S., according to New
York-based researcher Strategic Insight. The Templeton Global
Total Return Fund, also managed by Hasenstab, added the second-
most deposits, $5.7 billion.  Franklin’s global-bond assets grew to $185 billion as of
June 30 from $50 billion in June 2009.  “The investor has gotten more comfortable with the risks
around global equities and these markets with currency and trade
strengths,” Johnson said. “Still, the average investor in the
U.S. is over 50 percent in domestic U.S. equities, and I would
argue why limit yourself? The  U.S. economy , as we all know, is
becoming less and less a factor.”  Disenchanted Investors  Disenchantment with managers who pick U.S. stocks predates
the 2008 market decline. Actively run domestic-equity mutual
funds are headed for a record five straight years of
withdrawals, data from the Investment Company Institute show. In
the 10 years through May 31, customers withdrew about $51
billion more from U.S. equity funds than they deposited as long-
term returns stagnated.  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , based in Denver, has had eight
straight quarters of net withdrawals totaling $21.6 billion.
American Funds, the family run by Los Angeles-based Capital
Group Cos., saw its $157 billion flagship Growth Fund of America
lose $9.5 billion in redemptions this year through June, the
most of any fund, according to Morningstar.  Hasenstab, 38, who has run the $61.5 billion Global Bond
fund since January 2001, held no U.S. Treasuries and less than 1
percent of assets in euro-area sovereign bonds as of March 31,
favoring countries with lower debt. He held no Japanese
 government bonds , opting for less-leveraged Asian economies.  The fund, up 6.1 percent this year through July 29, beat 99
percent of its world-bond peers over the past five years,
according to Morningstar.  Relying on a prominent manager such as Hasenstab is one
risk to Franklin because he could leave or step down, Jason Weyeneth, an analyst with Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc., said in an
e-mail response to questions. Hasenstab oversees about $155
billion, or 21 percent of Franklin’s assets.  “It’s a good problem to have,” said Weyeneth, who rates
the stock “buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Keeley in Boston at 
 lkeeley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  