-- 
Gap’s Fall Campaign Changes Core Customer

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-08-01T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/gap-s-fall-campaign-changes-core-customer-in-moment-of-truth-.html
Gap Inc. (GPS)  is tailoring its fall
marketing campaign to attract millennials as the largest U.S.
apparel chain magnifies its focus on the twentysomething crowd.  Ads feature real residents of young, hip enclaves like
Austin,  Texas , and Williamsburg in  Brooklyn ,  New York , modeling
Gap’s 1969  denim line . In stores, customers will be able to use
smartphones to see videos explaining how their garment was
designed and manufactured, and taco trucks will give free food
to anyone wearing a Gap label.  The campaign is part of San Francisco-based Gap’s shift to
target young consumers after previously seeking to lure a wide
audience with neutral workplace basics, classic denim and bright
scarves. The clothes didn’t connect with consumers in recent
years and the retailer has shaken up the Gap North America brand
and replaced its president and head designer.  “Our core customer has changed to the millennials who are
entering the market in a very big way, so we are making some
bold and deliberate changes,” Seth Farbman, chief marketing
officer, said in an interview last week. “This is a moment of
truth,” said Farbman, who joined Gap in May after a career at
advertising agency  Ogilvy & Mather .  There are more than 60 million 18-to-35-year olds in the
U.S., about 20 percent of the population, according to the
Census. Gap is “smart to tap into this market because there is
a void there,” said Jennifer Davis, an analyst at New York-
based Lazard Capital Markets LLC. Gap’s success is dependent on
how appealing their fall clothing line is to millennials --
consumers in their 20s and 30s -- Davis said.  Skinny Jeans  “In the past, they have tried too hard to be different,
adding details to everything, and the results were just bad,”
Davis said in a telephone interview.  The Fall  line  does have notable changes. Steering clear of
black-and-white office attire, sequins and embellished jeans,
new looks include basic t-shirts worn with skinny jeans and a
bright-yellow blouse worn over green shorts.  Farbman is seeking to paint Gap’s designers as creative
artists to impress the younger target audience.  “The 1969 design team is a collective of artists,
musicians, action sports junkies and trendsetters,” Gap said in
a statement today.  Gap marketing to young adults may be a mistake, said Paul Lejuez, an analyst with Nomura Securities in New York. The
demographic Gap is targeting grew up wearing  Abercrombie & Fitch
Co. (ANF) , American Eagle Outfitters Inc.,  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO)  and Urban
Outfitters Inc., Lejuez said.  ‘Uphill Battle’  “If you’re under the age of 30, you’ve never grown up with
Gap as a cool brand,” Lejuez said in a telephone interview.
“Because they never hit that demographic to begin with, it’s an
uphill battle.”  In its new campaign, Gap will release videos on blogs and
social media websites that show the design and manufacturing
process because millennials “demand transparency,” Farbman
said. The company’s  Los Angeles  denim studio, with its hardwood
floors, exposed brick and stylish workers is meant to seem more
like a start-up, he said. The videos will appear on websites
frequented by the young crowd such as  Daily Candy , Hulu, Pandora
and  Rolling Stone .  The taco trucks will be in major U.S. cities and celebrity
chefs will create gourmet concoctions, Farbman said.
Anyone wearing Gap clothing will receive free food and have
their picture taken for the Facebook and Twitter pages.  In May, Gap cut its full-year profit forecast by 22 percent
because of surging cotton prices and increased pay for workers
who make clothes in  China  and other parts of  Asia .  Gap fell 23 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $19.29 on July 29 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
declined 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.netundefined  