-- 
Gasoline Retreats as Manufacturing Slows, Indicating Less Demand

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l   a n d   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-08-01T19:46:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/gasoline-heating-oil-rise-as-lawmakers-reach-debt-agreement.html
Gasoline fell as U.S. manufacturing
expanded at the slowest pace in two years, indicating the
economic recovery may be faltering and fuel demand will decline.  Gasoline dropped as the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
factory index fell to 50.9 last month from 55.3 in June, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said. Futures rose as much as 2.8
percent earlier after President Barack Obama said congressional
leaders approved a deal to raise the U.S. debt ceiling.  “Once that ISM number came out, the optimism that they
supposedly had an agreement on the debt ceiling left and worries
about the economy came back,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst
and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.  September-delivery gasoline slipped 0.39 cent to settle at
$3.054 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Economists projected the index would drop to 54.5,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, less than forecast, Commerce Department figures
showed last week. Household spending rose at 0.1 percent pace,
the weakest since the second quarter of 2009.  “When the ISM came out it was like ‘Oh, my God, that’s
horrendous,’” said  Andrew Lebow , senior vice president for
energy at MF Global Inc. in  New York . “That report coupled with
the GDP shows an economy that is weak. It was a relief rally
earlier. Then the markets gave way.”  Beige Book   Growth cooled in eight of the Federal Reserve’s 12 regions,
the central bank said last week in its Beige Book survey.  “The bad ISM manufacturing number brought us back down
after initial euphoria they got the deal done in Washington,”
said Dan Flynn, an energy analyst at PFGBest in Chicago.  Congressional leaders today are trying to sell a compromise
forged with President Barack Obama last night to raise the U.S.
debt limit at least $2.1 trillion and cut government spending by
$2.4 trillion or more. Tomorrow is the deadline to raise the
debt ceiling to avoid a threatened default.  Futures fell as low as $3.0055 before paring losses as
Republican leaders voiced optimism that Congress will pass the
compromise proposal. “We’re very optimistic we’re going to do
well,” said Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell , of
Kentucky, emerging from a meeting where he briefed Senate
Republicans on the plan.  “By the end of the day, people were at least optimistic we
were going to get a bill that has within it the seeds of some
economic recovery,” said Peter Beutel, president of trading
advisory company Cameron Hanover Inc. in  New Canaan ,
 Connecticut .  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.2
cent to $3.705 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  Heating oil for September delivery slipped 0.2 cent to
settle at $3.0974 a gallon on the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net ;
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  