-- 
GE Plans ‘Aggressive’ Bid to Build Poland’s First Nuclear Plant

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 
2011-08-01T13:19:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/ge-plans-aggressive-bid-to-build-poland-s-first-nuclear-plant.html
GE-Hitachi Nuclear Energy Ltd. said
its planned bid to build  Poland ’s first nuclear power plant will
benefit from a project in neighboring  Lithuania , allowing it to
reduce costs and share materials.  GE-Hitachi is preparing for negotiations with PGE SA,
Poland’s largest utility, which will seek a partner to build as
much as 3,000 megawatts of nuclear capacity, after Lithuania
chose the Wilmington, North Carolina-based company last month to
build a replacement for a Soviet-era reactor.  The Lithuanian project, GE’s record of on-time delivery and
its presence in Poland should give it a competitive edge against
rivals that may include Westinghouse Electric Co. LLC and
 France ’s Areva SA, according to Daniel L. Roderick, senior vice
president of nuclear plant projects.  “We will be very aggressive about our bid,” Roderick said
in an interview in Warsaw on July 28. “Running two projects at
the same time close to each other could help us reduce costs.
Also, a lot of the workforce and materials for the Lithuanian
plant will come from Poland,” he said.  Germany ’s decision to give up atomic energy, which accounts
for some 23 percent of the country’s total generation capacity
will affect the bidding process, Roderick said. Electricity
prices in  Europe  may rise as the continent’s largest economy has
to import power.  “We can deliver a competitive price for the Polish plant
in the current market” even without taking into account the
expected price increase from the German decision, Roderick said.  Poland can still meet its deadline for the first nuclear
reactor to come on line by the end of 2020 if it chooses the
builder by 2014, Roderick said.  “We’ve seen great progress by PGE in establishment of the
bidding process in the last six months and we’re very positive
about it,” he said.  GE Hitachi will attend PGE’s so-called engagement
conference, which the Polish utility will organize for potential
bidders in September. Roderick says he expects an official
tender to be announced “a few weeks” later and the winner to
be picked in 18 to 24 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  