-- 
Germans Abetted Greek ‘Kleptocrats’ as Odious Debt Grew: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-08-01T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/germans-abetted-greek-kleptocrats-as-odious-sovereign-debt-grew-books.html
If you’re still wondering how an
Aegean wonderland of sun, sea and sand slid into a money pit and
began dragging the euro with it, pick up Jason Manolopoulos’s
“ Greece ’s ‘Odious’ Debt.”  Blunt, rigorous and shrewd, Manolopoulos resembles a wise
uncle explaining how a ne’er-do-well cousin gambled away the
family’s future: He spares his compatriots no embarrassment, yet
recalls in memorable detail how fickle German friends and French
moneylenders egged them on.  Manolopoulos is a hedge-fund manager who specializes in
emerging markets at  Dromeus Capital Group . As he sees it, Greece
is more emerging than developed and had no business joining the
euro to begin with.  Forget the clever “Western branding” of his homeland as
the cradle of philosophy and government by the demos. Greece
today has become a kleptocracy, not a democracy in the northern
European sense, he says. The latest European Union rescue
package, seen in this light, marks little more than an attempt
to bolt a bank’s doors after a team of safecrackers has cleaned
out the vaults.  Greece has become a monster, Manolopoulos says -- “a
modern-day hydra with seven heads: cronyism, statism, nepotism,
clientelism, corruption, closed shops and waste.”  Taxing History  Warped by more than 300 years of occupation under the
 Ottoman Empire  and still smarting from horrendous human losses
in two World Wars, a civil war and a dictatorship in the 20th
century, the Greeks emerged with a tradition of avoiding taxes,
a sense of entitlement -- the West owes us, right? -- and a
heavy emphasis on family and clan. One can only wonder why they
didn’t run up far more sovereign debt.  Manolopoulos lays out his case with statistics, anecdotes
and mordant asides. Default, he says, has long been inevitable.
When Greece joined the euro in 2001, it had an undiversified
economy that relied on tourism, shipping and agriculture. The
country had much in common with Argentina a decade earlier, when
the government of President Carlos Menem pegged the peso to the
dollar. And that, he argues, is the nub of the matter.  The euro, for Greece, is an unsustainable currency peg -- a
link that initially created an appearance of wealth by allowing
the country to borrow in a hard currency that it could ill
afford to repay. As with  Argentina  in the 1990s, debt-fueled
spending masked a lack of sustainable growth.  “The Greeks were selling tomatoes to buy  Louis Vuitton ,
and imagining it didn’t have to stop one day,” Manolopoulos
writes with justified sarcasm.  Hellenic Peronism  Much of the money was squandered, swallowed up by what he
calls Hellenic Peronism, or the practice of distributing
subsidies and favors to interest groups instead of creating
wealth. Gorging on easy credit, the Greeks bought second homes,
holiday homes and Porsche Cayennes to reach them.  The newfound wealth hardly transformed them into model
citizens overnight. Manolopoulos rattles off telling numbers,
beginning with 321 people aged more than 100 who had died yet
were still being paid pensions. And 324 householders in northern
 Athens  who declared their ownership of swimming pools for tax
purposes -- compared with 16,974 residential pools in the
neighborhood captured on satellite photos.  As if all this weren’t bad enough, Greece had plenty of
accomplices. Ambitious EU leaders, bent on building the widest
euro empire possible, created a loophole that permitted the
Greeks to fiddle their public-deficit figures. Northern European
banks, for their part, were only too happy to loan billions of
euros to the Greek government, which spent much of it on arms
purchases from French and German companies, Manolopoulos says.  German Benefactors  German readers who rail against the Greek rescue will find
plenty of ammunition in these pages. They’ll be less pleased
with Manolopoulos’s analysis of how the euro they now bemoan
pulled their own country out of a balance-sheet recession and
boosted its exports.  Germany , he concludes, has been the biggest
benefactor from the single currency.  All of which raises the question of whom, exactly, the EU
is bailing out: The Greeks themselves? Banks holding Greek
 government bonds ? German exporters?  The “odious debt” in the title refers to the legal
concept that a nation shouldn’t be liable for debts despotic
rulers incur to prop up their regimes. Manolopoulos isn’t saying
that this applies to all or even most of Greece’s debt. He does
suggest, rightly, that Greece and other small economies should
perhaps be prevented, by international agreement, from borrowing
vast amounts of hard currency.  That might be a small price to pay for a euro intended to
be as strong as the deutsche mark, not as weak as the drachma.  “Greece’s ‘Odious’ Debt: The Looting of the Hellenic
Republic by the Euro, the Political Elite and the Investment
Community” is from  Anthem Press  (288 pages, $29.95, 16.99
pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 