-- 
Cromartie Says He Isn’t Jets’ Plan B After Asomugha Opts to Join Eagles

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-02T04:10:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/giants-said-to-allow-umenyiora-to-find-trade-moss-retires-espn-reports.html
Antonio Cromartie  said he doesn’t
consider himself to be the New York Jets’ fallback plan after
the team missed out on fellow cornerback  Nnamdi Asomugha .  Cromartie re-signed a four-year contract with the Jets
yesterday that ESPN said is worth $32 million. It came three
days after Asomugha got a five-year, $60 million deal from the
 Philadelphia Eagles  after being pursued by the Jets.  “I didn’t see it as being a ‘Plan B’ or anything like
that,” Cromartie told reporters yesterday. “They went out
after the best player that was out there and that was
Nnamdi. There are no hard feelings. That’s part of the
business. You want to get the best guys to try to help the team
out to win a  Super Bowl  and that’s the goal here.”  While Cromartie is back with the Jets, Jason Taylor is
leaving to rejoin the  Miami Dolphins . Taylor, the National
Football League’s active sacks leader, spent 12 of his first 13
seasons with the Dolphins before coming to New York.  Pro Bowl defensive end Osi Umenyiora may not be returning
to the New York Giants, while running back  Ahmad Bradshaw  is
close to finalizing a new contract with the team.  Umenyiora received permission yesterday from the Giants to
work out a trade, according to a person familiar with the
negotiations. The Giants are seeking a first-round draft pick in
exchange for Umenyiora, who has totaled 60 sacks over his seven
seasons in  New York .  Umenyiora is unhappy with the status of his contract, which
would pay him $8 million over the next two seasons, said the
person, who was granted anonymity because he wasn’t authorized
to speak publicly about the matter.  Moss Retires  “It’s not resolved,” Giants coach Tom Coughlin said
yesterday when asked about Umenyiora’s situation.  Randy Moss retired from the NFL yesterday after a 13-year
career in which he caught 153 touchdown passes, tied for the
second-most in league history. Moss’s retirement comes at the
start of the NFL’s first full week of training camp.  Moss played for the  New England Patriots , Minnesota Vikings
and Tennessee Titans last season. His agent, Joel Segal, said in
an e-mail that the wide receiver decided to retire after
weighing offers from a number of teams.  One day after receiver Plaxico Burress signed with the Jets,
Cromartie yesterday rejoined fellow cornerback  Darrelle Revis  in
the Jets’ secondary. Cromartie, 27, had three interceptions in
15 games last season.  “We feel really good about getting him back,” Jets
General Manager Mike Tannenbaum said. “That was a really
important transaction because it’s the foundation of our
defense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net 
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 