-- 
Global Investors Buy Most Bonds Since May on Rate Outlook: India Credit

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-08-01T05:28:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/global-funds-buy-most-bonds-in-six-months-on-rate-outlook-india-credit.html
International investors are boosting
Indian debt holdings by the most since May as economists say the
central bank is nearing the end of its rate increases.  Global funds bought $592 million more rupee bonds than they
sold last month through July 28, raising ownership to a $21.3
billion, according to exchange data. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
which correctly forecast the  Reserve Bank of India  would lift
borrowing costs by 150 basis points in 2010, said policy makers
are done with raising rates this year after a 50-basis point
increase to 8 percent last week. Nomura Holdings Inc., BNP
Paribas SA and HSBC Holdings Plc predict one more rate addition.  Benchmark rates as low as zero percent in advanced
economies have spurred foreign investors to raise holdings, with
the rupee’s 1.5 percent advance in 2011 adding to the allure of
the nation’s assets. The 8.43 percent yield on  India ’s 10-year
notes is the highest among Asia’s biggest economies and almost
three times the rate on similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  “Yields are at the higher end of the spectrum in terms of
the rate cycle,” Gordon Rodrigues, a Hong Kong-based investment
director at HSBC Global Asset Management who helps oversees $23
billion of Asian fixed-income assets, said in an interview on
July 28. “And people are positive on the currency in the medium
term.”  HSBC Global Asset bought rupee debt this year, he said.  ‘Little Need’  The Reserve Bank has “little need” to raise borrowing
costs further as  Asia ’s third-biggest economy slows and
inflation softens by September, Goldman Sachs analysts Tushar Poddar and Vishal Vaibhaw wrote in a report after policy makers
boosted the repurchase rate for a fifth time this year on July
26. Vaibhaw reiterated that stance when contacted on July 29.  Gross domestic product rose 7.8 percent in the three months
ended March, the least in five quarters, according to official
data. Food prices, which have a weighting of about 14 percent in
the inflation basket, climbed 7.33 percent in the week ended
July 16, compared with an increase of 7.58 percent in the
previous five-day period, official data showed last week.  Wholesale prices, which the  Reserve Bank  uses to track
inflation, rose 9.44 percent in June from a year earlier after
having climbed 9.06 percent the previous month, according to
official data. Price increases will soften to 7 percent by March
2012, according to the central bank.  Rupee Gains  “The Reserve Bank has hiked rates quite significantly, so
inflation is not really much of a concern,” Zsolt Papp, Zurich-
based head of fixed-income strategy at Union Bancaire Privee
that oversees more than $1 billion in emerging-market fixed-
income assets, said in a phone interview on July 28. Investors,
including the Switzerland-based bank, have also been buying
India’s bonds on “the expectation that in the long run, the
rupee will appreciate,” he said.  The rupee advanced 1.2 percent in July, the biggest monthly
gain since March, as the difference in yields between India’s
10-year government notes and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries
widened to the highest level this year. The currency advanced
0.2 percent to 44.1030 per dollar as of 10:24 a.m. in Mumbai
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield spread was 562 basis points, compared with 461 on
Dec. 31, 2010. The rate on India’s 7.8 percent notes due April
2021 dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
8.43 percent, according to the central bank’s trading system.
Indian sovereign debt gained 2 percent this year, beating the
0.5 percent advance in Chinese bonds, according to an index
compiled by Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.  Ownership Cap  Government caps on ownership of India’s bonds are a damper
for foreign investors, according to Pictet Asset Management SA,
a unit of  Switzerland ’s largest privately held bank for the
wealthy that oversees $17.9 billion of emerging-market debt.
Data on the website of  Indonesia ’s finance ministry show global
funds hold $29.2 billion of rupiah debt, 37 percent more than
their ownership of rupee notes comprising both government and
corporate debt.  Indian Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee doubled the limit
on foreign holdings of corporate debt to $40 billion and left
the cap on government notes unchanged at $10 billion while
presenting the federal government’s budget on Feb. 28.  “India’s policy makers shouldn’t put more restraints on
foreigners investing in rupee bonds,” Wee-Ming Ting, the
Singapore-based head of Asian fixed-income at Pictet Asset
Management, said in an interview on July 28. “Policy makers
want to control the amount of inflows and they view bond buying
as speculative inflows.”  Budget Deficit  Investors need to factor in the probability that India may
not be able to meet its target of trimming the budget deficit to
a four-year low of 4.6 percent in the 12 months ending March,
according to Mumbai-based Yes Bank Ltd.  “Our view is that the budget deficit will be 5.5
percent,” Nirav Dalal, the head of debt capital markets at Yes
Bank, said on July 29. “Any indication that the target will not
be achieved may trigger losses.”  The cost of insuring the debt of government-owned  State
Bank  of India, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, against default, increased five basis points in July to
192 basis points, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  “There is a sense that inflation will come under control
and there are also worries on the growth front, which will be
positive for bonds,” Vivek Rajpal, a Mumbai-based fixed-income
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in an interview on July
28. “I think the rush of money will continue because of the
yield differential.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  