-- 
Goldman, Morgan Stanley Trading Would Suffer in U.S. Downgrade, Hintz Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-08-01T15:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/goldman-morgan-stanley-trading-would-suffer-in-u-s-downgrade-hintz-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan
Stanley’s fixed-income trading revenue would likely be crimped
if the U.S. credit rating is downgraded, according to Brad Hintz, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst.  A downgrade will bring a “never before experienced”
environment with changing rates, currency-market volatility and
widening credit spreads, Hintz wrote in a note to investors
today. “This environment will negatively impact trading
revenue, repo financing and debt capital markets activity,” he
said. Both firms have liquidity and capital “to navigate
challenging market conditions successfully.”  President  Barack Obama  and Congressional leaders are
rushing to push through a compromise to raise the U.S. debt
limit by at least $2.1 trillion and slash  government spending  by
$2.4 trillion or more. Ratings companies including  Standard &
Poor’s  have warned that the nation may lose its top AAA
sovereign grade depending on the contents of the debt deal.  While a downgrade is likely to happen soon, firms have had
time to prepare for the event, Hintz said. That means the
decline in Wall Street’s fixed-income trading revenue will
likely be less than the 36 percent drop that followed the 1998
Russian default, he wrote.  “Wall Street’s fixed-income trading units are positioning
themselves in anticipation of a downgrade and are minimizing
their inventory positions,” Hintz wrote. “These events tend to
be painful but relatively short lived.”  Viewed as ‘Manageable’  Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, which are based in  New
York , may each have to post $5.2 billion in additional
collateral for so-called repurchase agreements, Hintz wrote.
Banks and other financial companies use U.S. Treasuries as
collateral for loans in repurchase-agreements, or repos, and the
prospect of a downgrade has raised questions about whether such
loans would become more expensive.  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, and Mary Claire Delaney at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  declined to comment on the
note.  Goldman’s senior executives view a potential downgrade of
the U.S.’s credit rating as “manageable,” Citigroup Inc.
analysts led by  Keith Horowitz  wrote in a note to investors last
week. The analysts said that they met with Goldman Sachs Chief
Financial Officer David A. Viniar, Co-Head of Securities Harvey M. Schwartz, and Co-Head of Investment Banking David M. Solomon.  “Management noted that they have run through various
scenarios and implied the risk of a U.S. debt downgrade seems
manageable, with the important caveat that there is always the
possibility of more severe knock-on effects,” the Citigroup
note said. Goldman Sachs “noted that collateral agreements
related to Treasuries are not dependent on Treasury ratings.”  Morgan Stanley is “not rushing” to raise collateral
requirements ahead of a potential downgrade,  David Hilder , an
analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group LLP, wrote in a note to
clients last week, citing a meeting with Ken deRegt, who helps
lead Morgan Stanley’s fixed-income trading group.  Only a small number of investors are required to own AAA-
rated securities, limiting the impact of a downgrade, deRegt
said, according to Hilder’s note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 