-- 
Gold Coins Sell Out in Lisbon as Biggest Bet Sees 22% Gain

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-08-01T16:31:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/gold-coins-selling-out-in-downtown-lisbon-as-biggest-wager-sees-11-gain.html
Rui Lola says gold sales at his
foreign exchange and coin store in downtown Lisbon almost
doubled this year, draining inventories faster than he can
replace them.  What’s happening at the Mundial Agencia de Cambios in the
historic center of the capital underscores the global rush from
investors seeking refuge from debt and banking crises. Holdings
in exchange-traded products backed by gold reached a record $113
billion July 29, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Rand Refinery
Ltd., operating the world’s biggest refining complex east of
Johannesburg, is selling the most Krugerrands in almost a year.  Purchases accelerated as  Greece  was bailed out for a second
time, U.S. leaders wrangled over borrowing limits and the cost
of insuring against bank defaults hit a six-month high. While
 George Soros  sold most of his gold in the first quarter, a year
after calling it the “ultimate asset bubble,”  John Paulson ,
who made $15 billion betting against subprime mortgages, remains
the biggest investor in the largest ETP backed by bullion.  “The top of the bubble will be euphoric action, a big
accelerated price move, and that’s just not the case at the
moment,” said  Charles Morris , who oversees $2.5 billion at HSBC
Global Asset Management in London. “I would expect it to be a
very popular asset at its peak, and I don’t think we’re anywhere
near that. We think it’s a  bull market  and we’re on it.”  Treasury Returns  Gold advanced 15 percent this year, beating the 7.4 percent
gain in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities and
the 0.8 percent rise in the MSCI All-Country World Index of
stocks. Treasuries returned 4.2 percent, a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index shows. The metal for immediate delivery
traded at $1,629.20 an ounce by 4:43 p.m. in London.  Bullion, which reached a record $1,632.80 on July 29, will
rise as high as $1,713 this year and $1,938 in 2012, according
to the median in a survey of the four most-accurate precious-
metals forecasters tracked by Bloomberg over the past two years.
That may mean 12 consecutive annual gains, the longest winning
streak since at least 1920.  Investors in options on Comex gold futures also expect the
rally to continue. The most widely held option gives holders the
right to buy gold at $2,000 by November, 22 percent more than
now. The second-biggest position is $1,800 for the same month,
data from the exchange shows. It was the most widely held option
as of July 29. Speculators are holding close to their largest
bet on higher prices since October 2009, according to figures
from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  British Sovereigns  Rand Refinery sold about 66,400 ounces of Krugerrands last
month, the most since August 2010. Britain’s Royal Mint used
36,219 ounces in the first half of 2011, 8.9 percent more than a
year earlier, data obtained by Bloomberg under a Freedom of
Information Act request show. Krugerrands and British pieces are
among the coins Lola is finding hardest to replace.  “People are nervous about the banking system and the euro
and believe that investing in gold will help them protect their
savings,” said Lola, who manages coin sales at the shop near
the Rua do Ouro, once a center for goldsmiths working with metal
brought back from  Brazil  in the 18th and 19th centuries.  “We used to have people, mostly older people and coin
collectors, who came here to buy gold coins to offer them as
gifts,” said the 32-year-old, who sold 643 ounces of coins in
the first six months this year. “Today, we have people from all
ages and walks of life buying.”  Central banks, the world’s biggest holders, are also
accelerating purchases, adding 155 metric tons valued at about
$8.1 billion to reserves in the first five months, according to
the London-based World Gold Council. That’s about double the
amount bought in all of 2010.  Borrowing Costs  The trend may also be a warning. Prices rose to a then-
record $850 in 1980 as central banks bought gold, only to drop
for most of the next 20 years. Bullion tripled from 1999 through
the beginning of 2008 as the banks sold more than 4,000 tons.  Higher borrowing costs also threaten the bull market. More
than two-dozen countries and the  European Central Bank  raised
interest and other rates this year as inflation accelerated,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That diminishes the appeal of
gold, which earns investors returns through price gains.  Soros Fund Management LLC, founded by the 80-year-old
billionaire, sold 99 percent of its stake in the SPDR Gold Trust
and all shares in the iShares Gold Trust in the first quarter, a
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing in May showed.  Warren Buffett , with a net worth of $50 billion, says
better returns can be found elsewhere. Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s
Class A shares rose more than 12-fold in the past two decades
while gold is up more than fourfold.  ‘A Little Peculiar’  “They take it out of the ground in  South Africa , ship it
to the  Federal Reserve , where they put it back in the ground,”
Buffett said in answer to a question about commodities on April
30 at Berkshire Hathaway’s annual meeting in Omaha,  Nebraska .
“If you were watching from Mars you might think it’s a little
peculiar.”  Bullion’s 14 percent advance since the end of the first
quarter has favored investors who kept their bets. Paulson & Co.
remains the largest shareholder in the SPDR Gold Trust, the
biggest exchange-traded product backed by gold, according to a
filing with the SEC in May. He bought the 31.5 million shares in
the first three months of 2009, valued at $2.84 billion at the
end of the period. They are now valued at $5 billion.  Investors added 142 tons of gold to their holdings through
exchange-traded products since the end of February, taking the
total to 2,152 tons, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
more than all except four central banks.  Inflation Adjusted  ETP holdings will reach 2,404 tons this year and 2,754 tons
in 2012, Morgan Stanley estimates. In inflation-adjusted terms,
gold’s 1980 record of $850 is equal to $2,299 today, according
to a calculator from the Federal Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis .  “The reason people hold gold is as protection against what
we call tail risk -- really, really bad outcomes,” Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  told a Congressional hearing on July 13. “And
to the extent that the last few years have made people more
worried about the potential of a major crisis, then they have
gold as a protection.”  The cost of insuring against European banks defaulting with
credit-default swaps rose to 177 basis points on July 29, from
120 basis points in April, according to the Markit iTraxx
Financial Index of contracts tied to senior debt of 25 banks and
insurers. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
miss debt agreements. A basis point on a contract protecting $10
million of debt for five years is equivalent to $1,000 a year.  Mining Earnings  Speculators held a net 233,256 futures and options
contracts by July 26, CFTC data show. They held 238,319 a week
earlier. The last time the position was that high, gold rose 15
percent to a record in the following two months.  A measure of the combined earnings of the 16-member
Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold and Silver Index will rise 18
percent this year, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Toronto-based  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest
producer, will report a 42 percent jump in net income to $4.48
billion, the mean of 11 estimates shows.  The dollar, the world’s reserve currency, weakened 8
percent in the past year, sapping investor confidence already
dented by the global recession.  The U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge against six counterparts,
will average 74.3 in the fourth quarter, compared with an
average of 76 so far this year, the median of 10 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. Gold and the index have a
-0.75 correlation, with a figure of -1 meaning they move in
opposite directions all the time.  ‘Essential’ Investment  “Since the dawn of recorded history, gold has been a
parking place, a store of wealth, and that’s never changed,”
said  Michael Pento , the economist at Euro Pacific Capital Inc.
in  New York  who correctly predicted the collapse in commodity
prices in 2008. “Gold is more and more an essential part of
investors’ portfolios.”  The most accurate forecasters tracked by Bloomberg were
Jochen Hitzfeld of UniCredit SpA in Munich; Jason Schenker of
Prestige Economics LLC in Austin,  Texas ; Anne-Laure Tremblay of
BNP Paribas SA in  London ; and Thorsten Proettel of Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart,  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  