-- 
Guatemala Supreme Court Bans President’s Ex-Wife Candidacy

-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 
2011-08-01T17:07:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/guatemala-court-bans-candidacy-of-president-s-ex-wife-correct-.html
Guatemala’s former First Lady Sandra
Torres, who divorced President Alvaro Colom so she could
represent his  party  in September elections, said she will appeal
a  Supreme Court  decision that barred her candidacy.  “Don’t worry, we will achieve inscription with the help
and support of God and win the elections,” Torres said today in
a  statement  published on the National Union of Hope party
website.  Torres said she would appeal to a constitutional court this
week to allow her to run for the presidency. Twelve of the 13
Supreme Court justices on July 30 upheld a decision by the
Electoral Tribunal June 29 that deemed her candidacy to be
illegal and fraudulent. The Central American country’s
constitution prohibits Colom from seeking a second, consecutive
term.  In its ruling, the  Supreme Court  said the constitution bans
Torres from being a candidate because she had been Colom’s wife
during part of his term and a prohibition on her participation
in the Sept. 11 elections lasts until that term ends.  On July 29, Torres said her exclusion from the race was a
violation of human rights. She had divorced her husband in April
to contest the presidency and said “that every person who is in
a marriage has a right to file for divorce, including the wife
of the president.”  Thousands of supporters of Torres, many dressed in the
green of her party and chanting “four more years,” marched
through  Guatemala City  to the Supreme Court ahead of its ruling.  If the ruling is overturned, Torres’s faces a tight race
against former general Otto Perez of the Patriotic Party, said
Heather Berkman, an analyst at Eurasia Group in  New York .  “Although the polls heavily favor Perez Molina, Torres is
probably more competitive than polls suggest,” Berkman said in
a research notes to clients today. “A positive decision from
the constitutional court would likely prompt a surge in her
numbers.”  Colom beat Perez in a runoff vote in November 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Williams in New York at 
 rjameson@bloomberg.net  
Eric Sabo in New York at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  