-- 
Lihua International Falls Record 22% Following Short Seller’s Allegations

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-08-01T20:47:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/lihua-falls-a-record-22-in-u-s-trading-after-short-seller-s-allegations.html
Lihua International Inc. (LIWA) , a Chinese
producer of copper wire, fell a record 22 percent in the U.S.
after a short seller said the company misrepresented itself to
investors.  Lihua, based in Danyang, China, dropped after Absaroka
Capital Management LLC, a Cheyenne, Wyoming-based hedge fund,
said in a  report  that concerns include “illogical financial
results” and deals with Danyang Huaying Resource Recycling
Ltd., which is majority owned by Chief Operating Officer Wang Yaying. Lihua’s management has engaged in “excessive stock
promotion,” and the shares should be valued at $3, Absaroka’s
Kevin Barnes wrote in the note.  The stock, which began trading in the U.S. in September
2009, fell 11 percent to $6.02 at 4 p.m. after plunging as much
as 22 percent earlier. The decline pushed Lihua’s market value
to $180.8 million from $202.7 million yesterday, and extended
the year-to-date retreat to 46 percent.  Daphne Huang, Lihua’s New York-based head of corporate
finance and investor relations, said the company plans to
respond to Absaroka’s report as soon as possible.  “Lihua is a real business,” she said in a telephone
interview. “These allegations are pretty baseless.”  U.S.-traded Chinese companies such as  China  MediaExpress
Holdings Inc. disclosed financial irregularities or auditor
resignations this year, raising concern there may be widespread
fraud. Carson Block, a short seller at Muddy Waters LLC, helped
fuel that speculation with his bearish reports on corporations
including Sino-Forest Corp., which trades in  Canada .  Short selling, or selling borrowed shares with the hope of
profiting when they fall, amounted to 5.3 percent of Lihua’s
outstanding shares as of July 28, according to  Data Explorers , a
New York-based research firm. That compares with a record 9.1
percent on April 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  