-- 
IMF ‘Harsh’ Legacy May Block Mideast Loans After Egypt’s $3 Billion U-Turn

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-08-02T11:10:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/imf-s-harsh-legacy-blocks-middle-east-loans-after-egypt-u-turn.html
Egypt turned down International
Monetary Fund loans that would have helped the economy because
the lender was seen as tainted by concessions demanded of past
borrowers, former Finance Minister  Samir Radwan  said.  “People are still affected by the past, when the IMF used
to impose harsh conditions,” said Radwan, who axed a $3 billion
accord with the IMF in June within three weeks of negotiating
it. He was replaced in a July 17 reshuffle aimed at placating
protesters demanding faster change after the toppling of former
President  Hosni Mubarak , who is due in court tomorrow on
corruption charges.  The IMF loan was offered with few strings attached and was
vetoed by Egypt’s interim military rulers after a “damaging”
media campaign, even though the North African country needed the
cash, Radwan said in a telephone interview on July 27. The
reversal shows how hard it may be for the IMF to shake off the
legacy of past policies, even after admitting mistakes.  The fund endorsed economic programs under Mubarak that
deepened  Egypt ’s income inequality and helped fuel this year’s
uprising, protest leaders say.  Tunisia , too, has yet to take up
the fund’s offer for help after the revolt against President
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, whose policies the IMF also praised.  “Egypt’s rejection of the IMF taught the Fund that it has
a serious image problem that needs immediate attention if it
wants to play a crucial role in new democratic regimes of the
Middle East,”  Bessma Momani , a professor at the University of
Waterloo in  Canada  and author of a 2005 study of Egypt’s
relations with the IMF, said by e-mail.  One Size Fits  Mistrust of the Washington-based lender has spread since
the 1997 Asian crisis. Economists such as Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  say the IMF helped worsen a recession by dictating a
one-size-fits-all policy of higher  interest rates  and lower
 government spending  -- when developed nations facing slumps
typically do the opposite.  Radwan argued that IMF terms were reasonable and Egypt --
whose economy shrank at an annual rate of 4.2 percent in the
first quarter while yields on its dollar bonds surged -- needed
the money to “get out of the bottleneck by raising public
investments.”  “The military council said it doesn’t want to burden the
democratically elected government with debt,” he said, adding
that he didn’t agree because “we are already indebted.”  From the start, Radwan’s overtures to the IMF were greeted
with suspicion by Egypt’s media and political activists.  ‘What’s the Catch?’  “What’s the catch?” television talk-show host Yousri
Fouda asked Radwan in April when he returned from initial talks
in  Washington . “The fund’s loan is against democracy,”
columnist Wael Gamal wrote in Al Shorouk daily on June 12.  “For years we have been told that this is the IMF
doctrine: cut budget deficits, reduce spending and liberalize
markets,” Wael Khalil, an organizer of the protests that ousted
Mubarak in February, said in a telephone interview.  Under the management of  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  and the
pressure of the financial crisis, the fund has loosened up.  It agreed in 2009 to set fewer conditions for funding, and
place less emphasis on structural changes such as overhauls of
banking or tax systems. It’s paying more attention to
unemployment and social affairs, said  Christine Lagarde , who
took over as managing director last month.  “We cannot only be driven by the hope to reduce fiscal
deficits,” she said on July 6.  Shield the Poor  The IMF in recent years has recognized that the policies it
advocated in the 1990s in countries such as Korea and  Indonesia 
weren’t always appropriate and may have alienated recipient
countries. Recent fund-backed programs, including in Greece and
 Pakistan , have sought to shield the poorest from the impact of
budget cuts. The fund also sought to improve its image in the
 Middle East , holding roundtable discussions last year with
students across the region. Strauss-Kahn attended one in  Jordan .  The fund has reviewed its approach, said  Masood Ahmed , its
director for the Middle East and Central Asia. Even before this
year’s revolts, it had “begun to focus more explicitly on
policies that ensure that the benefits of economic growth are
shared more broadly, and on protecting the most vulnerable
members of society,” he said by e-mail.  Tunisia Not Borrowing  Still, it’s struggling to find customers in the region.
Tunisia needs at least $1 billion in additional financing this
year, central bank Governor Mustapha Kamel Nabli said in June.
Like Egypt, the country is seeking to stabilize its economy amid
political turmoil, and it’s borrowing from the  World Bank , the
 European Investment Bank  and the  African Development Bank . Yet
Nabli said last week that Tunisia won’t be seeking IMF loans.  Egyptian activists recall the praise for “prudent
macroeconomic policies” under Mubarak in a March 2010 IMF
report. By cutting debt and attracting investment from companies
such as  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , Egypt boosted growth to about 7
percent a year by 2008, yet the numbers masked youth
unemployment rates above 20 percent.  A sense that Egypt’s new rulers were going back to business
as usual fueled anger at the IMF accord, Khalil said. “Nobody
felt that the government was serious about reviewing past
policies,” he said. “The first thing they did was go to the
IMF.”  Countries that shunned IMF loans in the past were often
seeking to escape spending discipline. Egypt is doing the
opposite -- tightening its belt in order to do without IMF
money.  Investments Scrapped  The IMF backed a proposed budget deficit of 11 percent this
year to finance higher public investments and wages. When the
government rejected the loans, it cut that target to 8.6
percent, trimming some of the spending plans.  As a result, “there isn’t enough stimulus spending to
compensate for weak investment,” said Mohamed Abu Basha, an
economist at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE in Cairo. Growth may slow to
1.6 percent this year from an estimated 2.6 percent the previous
12 months, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Nor are funds cheaper elsewhere. Qatar offered a loan at
7.5 percent, before agreeing to reduce that to 4.5 percent,
Radwan said. The IMF would have charged 2.5 percent, he said.
Egypt sold 3 billion Egyptian pounds ($504 million) of three-
year bonds yesterday to yield 13.35 percent.  Khalil said that after succeeded in ousting Mubarak and
pressuring the generals to prosecute him, Egyptians won’t
tolerate a repeat of the economic failures of the past.  “We will be much more difficult to satisfy,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 