-- 
IMF, Romania Agree on Second Installment of 480 Million Euros

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-08-01T07:11:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/imf-romania-agree-on-second-installment-of-480-million-euros.html
Romania and the  International
Monetary Fund  completed talks after a two-week review to unlock
about 480 million euros ($691 million) in funds that can be
tapped under the country’s crisis-prevention agreement.  The mission finished reviewing Romania’s progress under a 5
billion-euro precautionary deal today and will recommend to the
IMF board to make available a second installment. The east
European country trimmed its  budget deficit  to within its target
and started selling state assets, IMF mission chief Jeffrey
Franks said at a news conference in Bucharest today.  Romania, which counted on an IMF-led bailout from 2009
through early 2011, is returning to domestic and international
markets to finance the budget deficit wants investors to buy
energy assets as the economy recovers. Romania doesn’t plan to
draw the precautionary funds as it has sufficient reserves and
the IMF will store the available installments in  Washington  for
emergency withdrawal.  The government will try to find buyers for minority stakes
in utilities Transgaz SA and  Transelectrica SA (TEL)  this year and
revive last month’s failed stake sale in oil company  OMV Petrom
SA (SNP)  next year. It pledged to narrow its budget deficit to 4.4
percent of gross domestic product this year and below 3 percent
in 2012.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  left its benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged at 6.25 percent, the highest in the European
Union, for a 13th month on June 29 to tame inflation, sparked by
a government tax increase last year and rising global commodity
prices. The central bank expects the effects of a value-added
tax increase on inflation to dissipate in the second half.  Romania’s inflation rate unexpectedly fell in June to the
lowest since February as the farm harvest boosted supply and cut
food costs, giving the central bank more room to leave rates
unchanged to help an economic recovery this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  