-- 
Subbarao Says India Needs to Increase Rates to Tame Inflation, Spur Growth

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-08-02T05:09:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/india-needs-to-raise-rates-to-slow-inflation-subbarao-says.html
India needs to raise  interest rates 
to tame inflation and sustain economic growth, central bank
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said, a week after boosting borrowing
costs for the 11th time since the start of 2010.  “We need to raise rates to restrain inflation,” Subbarao
told students at Gitam University in the southern Indian city of
Visakhapatnam yesterday. “People say are you not hurting growth
in order to contain inflation? Our response is that, we need to
restrain inflation in order to ensure that our medium-term
growth is sustainable.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India has increased rates the most
among major Asian economies in the past 1 1/2 years, prompting
Morgan Stanley and the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory
Council yesterday to cut their growth forecasts. Finance
Minister Pranab Mukherjee has said price pressures have made the
monetary-policy stance necessary.  “The rate-cycle end is not in sight until we see clear
signs of inflation abating,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, a Mumbai-
based economist at the state-run  Bank of Baroda . She expects the
central bank to increase its repurchase rate by half a
percentage point to 8.5 percent by the end of December.  The yield on the 7.8 percent bond due April 2021 fell 2
basis points to 8.44 percent as of 10:04 a.m. in Mumbai. The
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index declined 1.1 percent.  Inflation Drivers  Subbarao said inflation is being stoked by higher food
costs, rising commodity prices including crude oil and strong
consumer demand, led by an increase in incomes.  Mukherjee yesterday told industrialists including Infosys
Ltd. Chairman N.R. Narayana Murthy and Tata Group Chairman  Ratan Tata , that a tight monetary policy had been “necessitated
because of continuing inflationary pressure,” according to a
statement from the  finance ministry .  India ’s benchmark wholesale-price index climbed 9.44
percent in June from a year earlier and has remained above 9
percent for seven straight months, undermining spending power in
a nation where the  World Bank  estimates more than three-quarters
of the people live on less than $2 a day.  The Reserve Bank, in the last policy announcement on July
26, increased its inflation forecast by 1 percentage point to 7
percent by March 31 and signaled the need to “persevere with
the anti-inflationary stance.” It increased the repurchase rate
by half a point, its second such move in three meetings.  Growth Forecast  The central bank maintained its growth forecast of 8
percent for the current fiscal year.  “Growth last year was 8.5 percent and this year may be
slightly lower,” Subbarao said yesterday.  India’s economy  may expand 7.2 percent in the year through
March, less than an earlier prediction of 7.7 percent, Morgan
Stanley said. The prime minister’s council projected 8.2 percent
growth from 9 percent previously.  Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the prime minister’s
economic council, said the growth estimate of his panel is
“high and respectable” and that the central bank must continue
with monetary tightening to curb an inflation rate that may stay
at about 9 percent until October. He said the pace of price
gains may ease to 6.5 percent by the end of the fiscal year.  Weak Investments  Chetan Ahya, Singapore-based regional economist at Morgan
Stanley, cited “persistently high inflation,” the rising cost
of capital, a weak global capital markets environment and a slow
pace of investment among reasons for a slowdown in India.  Mukherjee said that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt problems were
threatening to spill over, and that a possible rise in commodity
prices and “increased volatility” in capital flows are
concerns to India.  Even though “there are signs that growth is beginning to
moderate,” there is “no evidence of a sharp or broad-based
slowdown as yet,” the central bank said last week.  While sales growth at carmakers including  Maruti Suzuki
India Ltd. (MSIL)  decelerated in June to more than a two-year low,
according to the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers ,
commercial loans given by banks such as ICICI Bank Ltd. rose
19.33 percent as of July 15, exceeding the central bank’s 18
percent projection.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  