-- 
Industrial Policy, Just a Nicer Name for Corporate Welfare: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-01T00:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/industrial-policy-just-a-nicer-name-for-corporate-welfare-view.html
One healthy development to emerge
from the generally poisonous debt-ceiling debate is that some
Republicans have come to embrace the phrase “corporate welfare.”  Corporate welfare is a pejorative term for subsidies and
tax breaks that the government gives to private companies. For a
while, it seemed as if the Republicans might agree to raise some
revenue by ending some of these deductions and not calling it a
tax increase.  They’ve since changed their minds, but their bout of
reasonableness marked an important change.  A friendlier term for corporate welfare is “industrial
policy.” They aren’t exactly the same thing, but they’re close.
Industrial policy means a conscious government decision to help
certain industries -- through subsidies, protectionism,
exemptions from regulations (such as antitrust) and so on -- and
not to help other industries.  This is different from government’s role in attempting to
guide the general economy, through fiscal and monetary policy.
And it’s different from special burdens the government places on
certain industries -- legitimate burdens for the most part -- to
protect the environment, public health and the like. Industrial
policy was based on the theory that the invisible hand of free-
market capitalism needed some help in guiding us toward a 21st-
century economy.  An Old Debate  A few decades ago, there was a vigorous debate in the U.S.,
mainly among liberals, about whether we should have such a
policy. In those ancient days, the great economic bogeyman was
 Japan , playing approximately the role that  China  plays today.  There are important differences. In China’s case, the fear
is of competing with an endless supply of cheap labor. In
Japan’s case, the fear was of a country that seemed totally
organized for production, with close cooperation among giant
corporations and between corporations and the government.  Japan seemed to have cracked the nut of advanced
capitalism, while the U.S. floundered. In response, some
Democrats suggested an industrial policy to improve U.S.
competitiveness.  But “industrial policy” turned out to mean different things
to different people. Was the idea to “pick winners” -- i.e.,
decide which industries are most promising and give them enough
help to guarantee success? Or was it to ensure the survival of
losers on the theory that the U.S. must retain the ability to
make whatever it is these troubled companies make? Should the
government be pouring resources into Silicon Valley, or should
it be mitigating the suffering of the Rust Belt?  Many noted that the U.S. has an industrial policy -- just
not a coherent one. Our government subsidizes agriculture
through crop price supports, oil and gas through tax credits,
housing through the mortgage-interest deduction, and on and on.  Of course the fact that it’s going on already doesn’t
necessarily make it a good idea. Skeptics said: Why not get rid
of all these subsidies -- all this corporate welfare -- instead
of using existing subsidies as an excuse to lard on even more?  Then the American economy entered the Clinton boom years,
Japan faltered and began its “lost decade” of economic stasis,
and industrial policy went out of fashion. No one had a good
answer to the question: Why should the government know which
industries deserve support better than individual investors with
their own money on the line?  And that’s where matters stood until about two years ago,
when -- very suddenly, with almost no public discussion -- the
government owned a controlling interest in  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
was arranging the sale of Chrysler Group LLC, ordering banks to
borrow government money, creating shotgun weddings among
financial institutions, taking over a huge insurance company,
and generally playing a far greater role in a few industries
than even the biggest enthusiasts for industrial policy had
recommended.  No one especially wanted it. No one called it industrial
policy. It was imposed on our leaders by the economic crisis.
And yet: It’s all turning out rather well. Or at least it’s
turning out well as industrial policy -- helping particular
companies and industries. With substantial government help, GM
went from bankruptcy to profitability (for the first time since
2004) in just 13 months. The government still owns 27 percent of
the company. The  Treasury says  that it actually made money on
its loans to various banks under TARP.  As to whether these federal interventions served the larger
purpose of slowing or preventing a more general economic
catastrophe -- that remains to be seen. But as industrial
policy, well, you can’t argue with success.  Still Dubious  Or can you? Industrial policy for its own sake -- which the
recent episodes were not -- still strikes us as a pretty dubious
idea.  For one thing, the government doesn’t have the money, and
won’t for many years. Meanwhile, nothing has changed to make
protectionism a good policy. It’s true that even many free
traders recognize a very narrow exception to their prohibition
on tariffs and import quotas, involving protection of infant
industries: nurture them behind a tariff wall, then tear it down
when they’re ready to take on the world. But the chance of such
a strategy working in real life is usually slim. Politicians
will be unable to limit the gift of protectionism once they
start -- and they’ll never be able to take it away, once given.  When it’s done through  tax deductions  rather than a
government check, corporate welfare is virtually invisible. It
does not get reviewed every year like normal budget items. Now
that they’ve brought it up, perhaps some Republicans will be
more open to ending tax exceptions for business, even if this
plays little or no role in resolving the debt-ceiling mess.  In the end, industrial policy is corporate welfare. Sure,
it worked once or twice lately. We advise the federal government
not to risk another throw of the dice, but to take its winnings
and go home.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 