-- 
Italy, Spain Stuck in No-Go Zone at Merrill, DWS: Euro Credit

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E m i l y   B l e w e t t
-- 
2011-08-02T15:49:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/italy-spain-stuck-in-no-go-debt-zone-for-merrill-dws-funds-euro-credit.html
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth
Management, unconvinced that the second Greek bailout has
stemmed the debt crisis, won’t put any of its $1.5 trillion of
assets into Italian or Spanish bonds.  The unit of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  has spurned bonds from
Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Spain and  Italy  since deciding to
avoid them in April of last year, according to Johannes Jooste,
a senior Merrill portfolio strategist in London. Merrill isn’t
alone: Frankfurt-based DWS Investment, which oversees $390
billion for clients, and Legal & General Investment Management 
say they are “underweight” Spanish debt.  The lack of enthusiasm from bond buyers threatens the
latest rescue deal for Greece, which was struck two weeks ago to
reassure investors as contagion from the debt crisis sent
Italian and Spanish bond yields soaring. The bailout includes
contributions from banks and other private bondholders through a
series of exchanges and buybacks that will cut the debt load.  “We are not convinced that this is the finality of the
haircuts,” Jooste said in an interview, referring to losses
absorbed by those private investors through the debt-exchange
program. “There is still a question mark of whether there will
be haircuts for countries apart from  Greece .”  Legal & General said its $500-billion fund is “neutral”
on Italian bonds and holds fewer Spanish securities in its
portfolio than recommended by benchmarks used to measure the
fund’s performance, a so-called underweight position.  Debt Load  Last month’s rescue agreement also consists of 109 billion
euros ($155 billion) from governments and the  International
Monetary Fund .  Italy, whose 1.8 trillion euros of borrowings make it the
region’s biggest bond market, will have the second-highest debt
level as a percentage of gross domestic product this year,
according to a May 13 European Commission forecast. At 120
percent, it will trail only Greece’s 158 percent. Spain’s 68.1
percent level will be less than that of France and  Germany ,
though its  budget deficit , at 9.2 percent last year, was below
only Greece and Ireland.  Yields on Italian and Spanish bonds have resumed their
ascent after declining when European leaders agreed July 21 on
the aid package for Greece, the second in less than two years.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Italian
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds rose to 384 basis points
today, the most since the euro was introduced more than a decade
ago. Spanish 10-year yields have jumped 55 basis points to 6.3
percent since the summit.  Peripheral Yields  Yields on other peripheral bonds also rose today as concern
over the region’s debt problem and speculation that the U.S.
debt-limit compromise would damp global growth prompted
investors to look for a haven. Ten-year Portuguese bond yields
climbed 15 basis points to 11.06 percent, while Greek yields of
the same maturity gained 9 basis points to 14.86 percent.  “The recent solution for Greece has not changed our
perception about the peripheral market, and we are not quite
sure if the problem is contained,” said Ralf Schreyer, head of
European fixed income at DWS. “The key word here is trust. If
policy makers spoke with one clear voice, we would have had more
trust that they are committed to the solution, that they are
heading towards the right direction.”  The additional yield investors demand to hold 10-year
Spanish debt over bunds reached a euro-era record of 404 basis
points today, compared with the average 44 basis points in the
past decade.  ‘Danger Zone’  Spain  is still in “the danger zone” and must keep up
momentum in restructuring its economy to stave off contagion,
the International Monetary Fund said last week. The report
followed a warning by Moody’s Investors Service that it may
downgrade the euro region’s fourth-largest economy further.  Moody’s cited “funding pressure” when it placed Spain’s
Aa2 rating on review for a cut on July 29. It said Spain’s
regions are struggling to cut budget deficits and the Greek
bailout increases the risk that bondholders will have to pay for
rescues in other countries.  Yields on 10-year Spanish and Italian bonds are only about
a percentage point away from the 7 percent mark that prompted
Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland to seek bailouts. Rising borrowing
costs and a poor growth outlook are two reasons Jonathan Cloke,
a portfolio manager at Legal & General, cited for holding off on
purchasing of Italian and Spanish government securities.  In addition to being underweight Spanish bonds, Legal &
General no longer owns Greek, Irish and Portuguese debt.  ECB Outlook  “I don’t think Italy and Spain can carry on financing at
the current yield levels,” said Cloke. “There will have to be
some ways of reducing their  interest rates , although I’m not
quite sure how. And with the European  Central bank  expected to
keep raising interest rates, I’m worried these countries are not
going to get growth they need to reduce debt.”  The ECB has already increased its benchmark rate twice this
year, bringing it to 1.50 percent in July. It will reach 1.75
percent by the end of this year, according to a weighted-average
of 37 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Italy sold 10-year bonds at a yield of 5.77 percent on July
28, compared with 4.94 percent at the previous auction in June.
Investors are demanding higher yields from Italy even as the
country’s growth is underpinned by exporters and, unlike other
troubled countries, more than half of its debt is held by local
investors.  Moody’s comments on Italy on June 17 cited “risks posed by
changing funding conditions for European sovereigns with high
levels of debt.”  Italian Data  Sales of Italian goods abroad climbed 1.4 percent in the
first quarter of this year, up from the fourth quarter when
exports rose 0.4 percent, Italian data released June 10 showed.  “You may argue that Italy’s economic fundamentals are
different, but the country, with its huge debt load, is as
vulnerable as others when borrowing costs rise,” said Mark Dowding, a  fund manager  at $39-billion BlueBay Asset Management
in  London . “Italy is solvent when it can borrow at 4 to 5
percent. When the costs rise well above that, its solvency is
called into question. We are cautious about Italian bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Blewett in London at 
 eblewett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  