-- 
Japan Expands Cattle-Shipment Ban as Radiation Contaminates Beef

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-08-01T08:35:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/japan-expands-cattle-shipment-ban-as-radiation-contaminates-beef.html
Japan  banned cattle shipments from
Iwate prefecture, the nation’s fifth-largest grower, as the
contaminated-beef crisis widened with radiation threatening the
country’s food supply.  The government banned shipments last month from Miyagi and
nearby Fukushima prefecture, where radiation from a crippled
nuclear plant contaminated hay. A total of 2,965 cattle that ate
tainted feed were shipped to the market from 130 farms in 15
prefectures, the agriculture ministry said on July 28. Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters today that
shipments from Iwate would be restricted.  Fallout from the stricken Fukushima nuclear plant poses a
growing threat to Japan’s food supply as unsafe levels of cesium
found in beef on supermarket shelves were also detected in
vegetables and the sea. Prolonged exposure to radiation in the
air, ground and food can cause leukemia and other cancers,
according to the London-based  World Nuclear Association .  “The government hasn’t done enough to alleviate consumer
concerns about  food safety ,” Yoko Tomiyama, chairwoman of the
 Consumers Union  of Japan, said in a telephone interview today.
“They should increase measures to prevent tainted food from
entering the market.”  The government may extend the ban to Tochigi prefecture,
south of Fukushima, after discovering cesium exceeding the
official standard in beef from the prefecture,  Kyodo News 
reported yesterday.  Shunned Beef  Cattle grown in Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima amounted
287,200 as of Feb. 1, 2010, representing 10 percent of the
country’s herd. Tochigi was the sixth-largest producer.  Japanese farmers are contending with their biggest crisis
since an outbreak of mad-cow disease in 2001 after stores sold
meat from cattle fed with the polluted hay.  Beef prices in  Tokyo  slumped as consumers shunned the
product amid safety concerns. The price of A-4 grade wagyu meat
plunged to as low as 598 yen ($7.71) a kilogram on July 19 from
1,623 yen on July 1 on the Tokyo meat market, according to the
agriculture ministry.  Agura Bokujo KK, a cattle grower based in Tochigi
prefecture, was unable to make payments to clients after prices
fell, according to Tokyo Shoko Research Ltd. The company had
liabilities of 62 billion yen as of March 31, the researcher
said.  Japan’s beef imports rose 11 percent in the first five
months and may maintain that pace for the rest of the year amid
radiation concerns, said Tetsuro Shimizu, chief researcher at
Norinchukin Research Institute Co.  U.S. beef exports to Japan will probably rise 33 percent to
140,000 tons this year, Philip Seng, chief executive officer of
the U.S. Meat Export Federation, said in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  