-- 
Kenyan Inflation Accelerates for Ninth Consecutive Month in July to 15.5%

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-01T13:36:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/kenyan-inflation-accelerates-for-ninth-consecutive-month-in-july-to-15-5-.html
Kenyan inflation accelerated for the
ninth straight month in July, increasing pressure on the central
bank to tighten monetary policy in East Africa’s largest
economy.  Prices climbed 15.53 percent from the year earlier,
compared with 14.49 percent in June, on rising food and fuel
costs, the  Kenya  National Bureau of Statistics said in an e-
mailed statement today from Nairobi, the capital. Inflation
accelerated 1.27 percent in the month.  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee unexpectedly
left the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 6.25 percent at
its last meeting on July 27, following two consecutive
increases, saying tighter monetary policy won’t reduce supply-
side price pressures. Food costs are rising because of a
regional drought, while higher  oil prices  are pushing up
transport costs.  “Even as the central bank’s recent policy actions have
been varied, we continue to believe that further policy
tightening is probable in the medium term, given significant
inflation risk,” Barclays Plc’s Absa Group Ltd. said in an e-
mailed note today.  Power rationing that began July 27 and may last as long as
three months threatens to worsen the inflation outlook and
undermine economic growth, Andrew Mwangangi, head of fixed
income for Kestrel Capital Ltd., said by phone from Nairobi
before today’s announcement.  Transport Costs Jump  Transport costs, which include fuel, jumped 23.62 percent
in July, while food and non-alcoholic beverages advanced 24.02
percent, the statistics bureau said. Housing inflation, which
takes into account water and electricity, grew 12.55 percent.  The shilling appreciated as much as 0.3 percent against the
dollar after the data was released and traded 0.16 percent
weaker at 91.20 as of 4:18 p.m. in Nairobi.  “Normally the government fights higher inflation by raising
rates so there may be an expectation of an increase,” Julius
Kiriinya, a dealer with ABC Bank Corp, said by phone from
Nairobi.  Inflation may slow to between 8 percent and 9 percent by
the end of the year if the central bank raises rates, while
failure to tighten monetary policy may keep the inflation rate
above 12 percent, the  International Monetary Fund  said July 7.  Inflation has surpassed the government’s 5 percent target
every month since January. Kenya’s monetary policymakers meet
every two months to decide on the key lending rate.  The government expects economic growth to slow to 5.3
percent this year from 5.6 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 