-- 
Rift Valley Railways to Agree $164 Million Loan to Raise Capacity 4-Fold

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-08-01T21:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/kenya-uganda-rail-operator-to-sign-164-million-loan-agreement.html
Rift Valley Railways Ltd., operator
of the Kenya- Uganda  railway, will sign a loan accord to finance
an upgrade that may boost capacity by almost four-fold,
according to its biggest shareholder,  Citadel Capital SAE.   The agreement, to be signed today in the Kenyan capital,
Nairobi, will form part of the $287 million that is expected to
be invested in RVR over the next five years, Citadel Chairman
Ahmed Heikal said yesterday in an interview. The loan is for
$164 million, the International Finance Corp. said yesterday.  “This investment will not only greatly improve the
efficiency of the railway, but that of the port of  Mombasa  as
well,” Heikal said in Nairobi. The line links Mombasa, East
 Africa ’s biggest port, to Kampala, the Ugandan capital.  Citadel, an Egyptian private-equity company with $8.7
billion in assets under management, owns 51 percent of RVR,
which is mandated to manage about 2,000 kilometers (1,243 miles)
of railway lines in  Kenya  and Uganda. Last week, RVR said
freight volumes in the year to June increased to 1.61 million
metric tons from 1.53 million tons a year earlier.  “The goal is to see that figure grow to 5 million tons per
year by 2015,” Heikal said. “An efficient rail network could, in
time, bring East African transport costs down by as much as 35
percent due to the operational and fuel efficiency of shipping
by rail.”  Investment in the railway will include refurbishing the
track, buying new wagons and locomotives and replacing
 information technology , Karim Sadek, Citadel’s managing director
for east, central and southern Africa, said in the interview.
The balance will be financed from new equity, existing
shareholders and internally generated profits, Sadek said.  Capital Expenditure  “We are looking at a business plan that has roughly $287
million of capital expenditure,” Sadek said. In addition to the
$164 million loan, “the balance comes from shareholders and
internally generated profits,” he said.  The loan was provided by six development-finance
institutions and  Equity Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , Kenya’s biggest lender by
market value. The  African Development Bank  is providing $40
million and KfW Bankengruppe $32 million. Other contributors
include the International Finance Corp., Nederlandse
Financierings-Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden NV,
Cordiant’s Infrastructure Crisis Fund, and the Belgian
Investment Company for  Developing Countries .  “IFC is the largest financier with a loan of $32 million,
$10 million already disbursed,” the company said yesterday in an
e-mailed response to questions. “An additional equity investment
of $10 million is planned, making the total $42 million.”  TransCentury Ltd., based in Nairobi holds 34 percent and
Bomi Holdings of Uganda 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  