-- 
Kenyan Central Bank Says Power Rationing May ‘Drag’ on Economic Recovery

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-01T14:38:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/kenyan-central-bank-says-power-rationing-may-drag-on-economic-recovery.html
Kenya ’s central bank said scheduled
power outages announced last week will curb growth in East
Africa’s biggest economy, in explaining its surprise decision to
stop raising the key interest rate last week.  “The recently introduced power rationing targeting
manufacturing firms will create a further drag on economic
recovery and supply of goods and services,” Central Bank of
Kenya Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said in an e-mailed statement
today from Nairobi, the capital.  Kenya Power Ltd., the country’s sole distributor, started
scheduled outages on July 27 amid a shortage caused by machine
breakdowns and a lack of infrastructure. The blackouts may last
as long as three months, the company said.  Kenyan commercial lenders and businesses surveyed by the
central bank said they expect economic growth to slow this year
to “within the government target” of 5.3 percent, Ndung’u said
today. The economy grew 5.6 percent last year.  Kenya’s central bank last week surprised financial markets
by keeping its key lending rate unchanged at 6.25 percent,
failing to stem currency weakness and raising concern among
investors the bank is moving too slowly to contain rising
consumer prices. The halt followed two increases in March and
May totaling half a percentage point.  ‘Tightening Intent’  “The markets were looking for a clear sign of their
tightening intent,”  Razia Khan , head of African economic
research for Standard Chartered Bank Ltd. in  London , said on
July 27. “They have not delivered this, having failed market
expectations of further central bank rate tightening.”  Inflation quickened for the ninth straight month in July to
15.53 percent on surging food costs amid drought and higher
prices for imported fuels, the Kenya National Bureau of
Statistics said today.  Stripping out the “volatile” categories of food and fuel
from the consumer-price basket, inflation advanced 6.5 percent
in July, from 5.6 percent in June, which is within the
government’s target range, Ndung’u said. These types of goods
account for 37 percent of expenditure and 54 percent of the
inflation measure.  Inflation isn’t “overheating,” Ndung’u told reporters in
Nairobi. “When we remove those volatile components that are
reacting to supply constraints we don’t see massive inflation or
any significant jump.”  The shilling has weakened 0.8 percent against the dollar
since last week’s  interest-rate  decision, having lost 11 percent
of its value since January when inflation surpassed the
government’s 5 percent goal and accelerated every month since.  The central bank’s analysis of inflation showed that most
of the 12 industries that are surveyed by the national
statistics agency to compute consumer inflation have “strong
peaks and troughs rather than trends,” Ndung’u said. “This
cyclical behaviour could be expected to continue in the future,
moderating the current high inflation rates.”  He declined to provide a specific inflation forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in London at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 