-- 
Killer Avalanche, Soprano on Meat Rack, Adultery: London Stage

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-08-01T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/killer-avalanche-soprano-ends-on-meat-rack-lavish-adultery-london-stage.html
Alfredo Catalani’s rarely performed
opera “La Wally” (1892) ends with an avalanche killing the
hero and the distraught heroine flinging herself into a snowy
abyss. It’s the sort of thing that drives directors mad.  The staging problems don’t deter  Opera Holland Park  in
 London . Building on a reputation for unearthing forgotten gems,
the summer production is a barnstorming hit.  It tells the story of a wild mountain girl called Wally
(short for Wallburga). She falls for a testosterone-fueled
huntsman called Hagenbach. When he mocks her love, she orders
her baritone admirer Gellner to push him down a ravine. She then
relents, dramatically rescues him, and they fall in love -- just
in time for the avalanche to make them go splat.  It has everything you want from a 19th-century opera. There
are hyper-emotional big tunes (the main aria was made famous by
the 1981 film “Diva”), rousing hunting choruses, and just the
right amount of entertaining implausibility.  All that, and an avalanche too.  Designer Jamie Vartan does a great job on a small budget
with a symbolic white cloth, which is pulled up by ropes into
peaks. It hangs vertically for the avalanche, and pulls apart to
swallow the heroine for her death plunge. Very neat.  Gweneth-Ann Jeffers sings up a storm as Wally. Her voice is
ample and juicy, yet she can float a quiet top note and shape
her phrases with real delicacy. There’s more vulnerability in
her voice than her acting, which is OK. No matter. Her vocal
talents are so thrilling that she deserves the cheers and foot-
stamps she receives from the audience.  Killer Baritone  There’s great support too from Adrian Dwyer as the
swaggering huntsman tenor, and Stephen Gadd as the murderous
baritone. Hungarian soprano Alinka Kozari provides a memorable
coloratura turn as Walter, a callow youth in love with Wally.  Director Martin Lloyd-Evans keeps the racy plot moving, and
tells the narrative clearly. Even so, there are some crudities
in the staging. Wally’s father hits his daughter in the face and
beats her with a belt, for example. Aren’t there more subtle
ways to show just how evil and tyrannical he is?  She seems to forget about the aches and bruises immediately
after they’ve been inflicted. Lucky her.  Conductor Peter Robinson gets the fiery  City of London
Sinfonia  to produce big swoops and swirls of romantic color. If
there are a couple of lapses of ensemble, no doubt they’ll be
ironed out as the run progresses.  It’s an avalanche of pleasure. Rating: ***.  Writhing Dancers  The production runs in tandem with Verdi’s “Rigoletto,”
set in a dingy Mafia-controlled container port. In the opening
party scene, female dancers writhe provocatively with their
wrists tied above their heads. The men on stage get excited.  In the final scene, Rigoletto’s daughter Gilda is found in
a sack hanging in a similar fashion from a meat hook in a
refrigerated warehouse. It’s a sharp feminist twist in Lindsay
Posner’s staging of the 1851 opera. In a world where women are
treated as meat and objects for barter, it’s shocking to see the
ultimate results.  Julia Sporsen is a terrific Gilda. She sings well, and
conveys a fascinating half-scared, half-loving relationship with
her father.  Robert Poulton has all the chops for the title role,
combining a great voice and stage presence. His Rigoletto is
maniacal and selfish, yet capable of tenderness and longing.  Jaewoo Kim doesn’t bring the same panache to the role of
the Duke, and his voice sounds closed and narrow at the top of
its range. There are also a few wrinkles of logic in the
production. It’s hard to accept that the wealthy Count Ceprano
would live in the same kind of corrugated container inhabited by
the lowly Rigoletto.  Never mind. With Stuart Stratford’s suave and dramatic
conducting, it mostly hits the mark. Rating: ***.  Adulterous Affair  The same can’t be said of “A Woman Killed with Kindness”
at the  National Theatre . Thomas Heywood’s 1607 domestic tragedy
is given some lavish sets (designs by Lizzie Clachan and Vicki
Mortimer) and not much else.  The play tells two separate stories. One is about Anne (Liz
White), a woman who has an affair with her husband’s protege,
Wendoll (Sebastian Armesto). The other is about a nobleman (Leo
Bill) who barters his loyal sister (Sandy McDade) in marriage to
pay off his debts.  Director Katie Mitchell updates the work to 1919, and
places it on two realistic split-level sets next to each other.
One is a grand suburban villa, the other the entrance hall of a
decaying stately home.  Robot Moves  Servants scuttle up and down stairs. Tablecloths are
shaken. Flowers re-arranged. Life continues in one half of the
set while the main action takes place in the other.  It’s enjoyably busy. It also has as much juice and steam as
an old bus ticket.  Actions and gestures are cool and stylized, sometimes
robotic, and there’s little sexual heat. In a play about
adultery and a simmering claustrophobic brother-sister
relationship this seems counterintuitive, and it makes the piece
feel curiously cold.  The actors do a good job, especially Paul Ready as Anne’s
husband John, and Bill as the neurotic Sir Charles. Yet overall,
their work doesn’t help raise the thermometer. Rating: **.  “La Wally” and “Rigoletto” run in tandem at Opera
Holland Park, sponsored by Investec Wealth & Investment, through
Aug. 13. Information:  http://www.operahollandpark.com  or
+44-300-999-1000.  “A Woman Killed With Kindness” is in repertory at the
National Theatre, and is part of the Travelex 12 pound tickets
program. Information:  http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or
+44-20-7452-3000.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 