-- 
Kirin Pays $2.5 Billion to Acquire 50% Stake in Brazil Brewer Schincariol

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-08-02T11:21:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/kirin-agrees-to-buy-brazil-drinks-maker-aleadri-schinni-for-2-5-billion.html
Kirin Holdings Co.,  Japan ’s second-
largest brewer, paid 3.95 billion reais ($2.5 billion) to gain a
majority stake in the Brazilian maker of Nova Schin beer, adding
Latin America’s biggest beer market to its global footprint.  Kirin bought Aleadri-Schinni Participacoes e Representacoes
SA, acquiring 50.45 percent of Schincariol Participacoes e
Representacoes SA,  Brazil ’s second-largest beermaker, the Tokyo-
based company said in a stock-exchange filing. The purchase,
completed today, was funded with cash and loans.  The purchase of the closely held maker of Devassa Bem Loura
and Glacial is the biggest since 2009 for Kirin, which has spent
more than $12 billion on overseas acquisitions in the past five
years as Japan’s declining and aging population crimps domestic
demand for beer and soft drinks. Kirin bought all of  Australia ’s
second-largest beermaker in 2009 and owns almost half of the
Philippines’ San Miguel Brewery Inc.  “Beer demand is poised to grow in Brazil, and so buying a
well-known brand is important instead of entering by itself,”
said  Koichi Ogawa , a chief portfolio manager at Daiwa SB
Investments Ltd. in Tokyo. “Investing abroad is the most
rational way for Japanese food companies to use their cash.”  Kirin slid 0.3 percent to 1,148 yen at the 3 p.m. close in
Tokyo, paring the stock’s advance this year to 0.8 percent. The
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average slipped 1.2 percent today.  ‘Promising Targets’  Schincariol had 509 million reais in earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization last year and the
deal gives it an enterprise value of 8.654 billion reais,
according to Kirin’s presentation documents.  That would imply Kirin is paying an enterprise value-to-
Ebitda multiple of 17 times, compared with an average of 12.5
for beverage makers with a market value of at least $1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have been looking for promising targets to gear toward
further growth, and we found a prominent one in Brazil where we
see potential,” Kirin President Senji Miyake said at a briefing
in Tokyo. “The Brazilian market for beer and soft drinks
outstrips that of Japan.”  Brazil is the world’s third-largest brewery market by
volume, with China the biggest and the U.S. ranking second,
according to market researcher Mintel International Group Inc.  Primo Schincariol Industria de Cervejas e Refrigerantes SA
controls about 11 percent of the beer market in Brazil, while
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest brewer, holds a
share of about 70 percent, according to Nielsen data. Primo
Schincariol is a unit of Schincariol Participacoes e
Representacoes, said Kan Yamamoto, a Kirin spokesman.  Overseas Sales  Kirin said it will use its technology and marketing to help
boost Schincariol’s annual sales by 10 percent on average.  Schincariol, which also makes soft drinks, juice and
bottled water under the Schin and Skinka brands, had gross
revenue of 5.7 billion reais last year, according to the
statement. The Brazilian company employs about 10,000 people and
derives about 82 percent of sales from beer and 18 percent from
soft drinks, Kirin said.  It’s Kirin’s first acquisition in  Latin America , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company has an affiliate to
sell Japanese sake in Brazil, Yamamoto said.  The ratio of 17 times enterprise value-to-Ebitda at which
it made the purchase is almost double the 9.01 median of 10
similar deals from 2002 to 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Kirin paid a multiple of 13.13 when it took
Australia’s No. 2 brewer Lion Nathan Ltd. private in 2009 for
A$3.5 billion ($3.8 billion).  The Japanese brewer made about 23 percent of last year’s
2.2 trillion yen ($28.4 billion) sales abroad, compared with
about 14 percent in revenue from overseas in 2005, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Rating  Kirin’s A2 credit rating was put on review for a possible
downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service. While the deal may
benefit Kirin, the Japanese brewer is entering “a new market in
which it has limited expertise,” Moody’s said.  Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-largest brewer, had
considered making an offer for Schincariol, people familiar with
the matter said in May, and  London ’s Sunday Times reported that
 SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the maker of Grolsch and Peroni, may have been
interested in bidding for the Brazilian beermaker, without
saying where it got the information.  Japanese companies have announced $46 billion of cross-
border acquisitions in 2011, making it the busiest year for such
deals since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A stronger yen also makes it cheaper for Japanese companies
to make acquisitions abroad. The yen was at 77.42 per dollar as
of 3:01 p.m. in Tokyo from 77.21 in  New York  yesterday. The
Japanese currency reached 76.30 versus the dollar yesterday, the
strongest since it touched a record 76.25 on March 17.  Citigroup Inc. advised Kirin, Japan’s second-largest brewer
by volume, trailing Asahi Breweries Ltd. Kirin borrowed some of
the funds for the acquisition in a bridge loan from Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. and Citigroup, Ryoichi Yonemura,
general manager at the company’s strategic planning department
said. The amount and terms of the loan weren’t disclosed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  