-- 
Kodak Board Adopts Plan to Block Takeovers

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-08-01T20:12:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/kodak-board-adopts-plan-to-block-takeovers.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , the camera company
whose shares have plunged this year, implemented a shareholder-
rights plan to protect against a possible takeover.  Investors as of Aug. 11 will receive one preferred share
purchase right for each share they hold, the Rochester, New
York-based company said today in a statement. The rights would
be activated if a person or group acquires 4.9 percent or more
of the outstanding stock or if current holders of 4.9 percent of
the shares purchase additional stock.  Kodak said its board adopted the plan to protect $2.9
billion in tax attributes, such as net operating losses and tax
credit carry-forwards, that it could use to reduce future tax
liabilities. The company’s ability to use those attributes would
be limited if it had an ownership change, Kodak said.  “The board thinks the stock is cheap and could be
attractive and they want to avoid a hostile acquisition,”  Mark Kaufman , an analyst at Rafferty Capital Markets LLC in New York,
said in an interview. “They don’t want the company going on the
cheap.”  Kodak fell 3 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $2.37 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
tumbled 56 percent this year.  The company said the tax attributes also may be used to
offset taxable income from the possible sale of 10 percent of
its digital-imaging patents, valued at $2 billion or more, which
Kodak said last month it is exploring to raise money for
operations.  Kodak, which traces its roots to 1880, was founded by
George Eastman, who developed a method for dry-plate photography
and introduced the Kodak camera in 1888, according to the
company’s  website .  Last week, the company said its 2011 loss may be larger
than previously anticipated and that it would consume more cash
than it had planned.  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is acting as Kodak’s legal
counsel, and Lazard LLC is acting as financial adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ashley Lutz in  New York  at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in New York at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  