-- 
GE Agrees to $1.05 Billion Sale of SeaCo to HNA, Bravia

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-08-01T14:48:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/hna-group-bravia-capital-report-that-they-agree-to-buy-ge-seaco.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  and a partner
agreed to sell shipping-container lessor GE SeaCo for $1.05
billion to China-based HNA Group Co. and Bravia Capital as Chief
Executive Officer Jeff Immelt reshapes GE’s finance business.  GE will receive about $500 million from the deal, which
includes some assets owned by the company and  SeaCo Ltd. (SEAOF)  that
are managed by GE SeaCo, according to a statement carried on
Marketwire today. SeaCo will get about $528 million, the
statement said.  Immelt agreed to sell Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE’s 50
percent stake in the world’s fifth-biggest container-lessor as
he sheds finance assets to focus on industrial units. HNA Group
and Bravia plan to expand the container lessor’s fleet
“significantly” over the next two years, according to the
statement, as rising shipments of Asian-made goods to  Europe  and
the U.S. boosts demand for cargo-boxes.  “GE has developed some of the most sophisticated sort of
algorithms to make sure” that the containers are in the right
place at the right time, Bharat Bhise, CEO of Bravia, said in a
telephone interview. “This company comes not only with very
strong management and very strong fleet quality, but also very
strong systems, which is very important to us.”  The entire GE SeaCo management team is remaining with the
business, he said.  Shrinking Finance  GE Capital , the unit owning the GE SeaCo stake, is paring
net investment in finance assets toward a 2012 goal of $440
billion from about $516 billion at the end of 2010’s first
quarter. The cuts were ahead of schedule as of June 30, when the
total was $457.3 billion, excluding cash, Chief Financial
Officer Keith Sherin said July 22.  Shares of GE climbed 2 cents at $17.93 at 10:45 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares fell 2.1
percent this year before today.  GE kept another finance asset, its rail-car leasing
business, last month after concluding that the unit was doing
better than expected because of rising freight-shipment demand,
a person familiar with the decision said.  Railcar leasing was moved to an operating unit within the
finance division from so-called “red” assets, a group of
businesses marked for wind-down or sale.  HNA Assets  HNA Group, backed by the government of  China ’s Hainan
province, has a fleet of 30  container ships  and a container-ship
finance arm, according to the statement. It also has investments
in airlines, airports, financial services and real estate. Hong
Kong-based Bravia Capital is a private-equity firm with
investments in transportation and logistics.  “GE SeaCo fills an important gap critical to our ongoing
growth,” HNA Group Executive Director Adam Tan said in the
statement. It “fits precisely into HNA’s strategic plans to
quickly grow our logistics and transport business,” he said.  The acquisition, which is subject to regulatory and
shareholder approval, is being funded by a combination of equity
and debt, according to the statement. HNA and Bravia have
arranged a debt facility through Deutsche Bank AG and ING Groep
NV. Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. advised the sellers on the
deal.  GE SeaCo owns and manages the equivalent of more than
870,000 20-foot containers, according to the statement. The
lessor’s senior management, including Chairman and acting CEO
David G. Amble, will remain in place, it said.  Container Lessors  HNA prevailed in an auction that also drew interest from
 Textainer Group Holdings Ltd. (TGH) , the world’s largest container-
lessor, and private-equity firm Kelso & Co., according to people
with knowledge of those firms’ interest.  Container lessors are benefiting from growing freight
demand, limited supply and higher prices for new units. The cost
of a new cargo box rose to a record this year, according to the
World Shipping Council trade group.  In May, HNA agreed to buy a 432 million euro ($624 million)
stake in a Spanish hotel chain. The company said in July it may
bid for  Hochtief AG (HOT) ’s airport-operating unit, gaining control of
airports in Hamburg, Sydney, Budapest and  Athens . It also agreed
to invest in Turkish cargo carrier, ACT Airlines Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  