-- 
Nationalization Threat Harming Investments Into South Africa, Gigaba Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-08-01T11:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/nationalization-threat-harming-investments-into-south-africa-gigaba-says.html
South Africa’s ruling party debate
over nationalizing the country’s mines is deterring investment,
said Public Enterprises Minister Malusi Gigaba, who oversees
state-owned companies such as Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd.  “We know the harm this acrimonious and reckless debate is
doing to investments and the image of the country,” Gigaba told
the American Chamber of Commerce in South Africa in Johannesburg
today. It affects “not just investments in mining, but
investments generally.”  Julius Malema , the 30-year-old leader of the governing
 African National Congress ’s Youth League, has championed calls
for nationalization of mines in the world’s biggest producer of
platinum and chrome to redistribute wealth to black  South
Africans . The ANC appointed a panel to investigate the proposals
and issue a report that is expected to be discussed at the ANC’s
June policy meeting and voted on at the leadership conference in
December 2012.  “We don’t have the resources, the management capability,
the technical know-how to run the mines,” Gigaba said in an
interview after his speech. “We will have a major dip in terms
of the public image of the country. The ANC will take a rational
decision on this issue.”  The ANC’s panel is studying various options to address
concerns that communities located near mines aren’t benefiting
from the operations, he said. The government is also setting up
a mining company to help meet its goals to boost jobs and
economic growth, he said.  Gold Producer  South Africa  is the continent’s largest producer of gold,
supplies European and Indian power plants with coal and depends
on mining for half of exports. In April 2010, Citigroup Inc.
valued the country’s mineral resources at $2.5 trillion, the
most of any nation.  Eskom burns more than 100 million metric tons of coal a
year, with much of the fuel supplied by companies including
Anglo American Plc and Exxaro Resources Plc.  Foreign investors voiced their concern to Gigaba during a
recent investment roadshow that he attended in  London  with
Transnet SOC Ltd., the state-owned rail company that is spending
110 billion rand ($16.5 billion) over the next five years to
expand capacity.  “It’s necessary to assure investors that whilst the debate
is going on, the purpose is not to be divisive,” Gigaba said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 