-- 
NBA Impasse Goes on as League, Players Restart Talks on New Labor Deal

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/nba-impasse-goes-on-as-league-players-restart-talks-on-new-labor-deal.html
The  National Basketball Association 
and its players’ union made no significant progress in their
first formal bargaining session on a new labor contract since
the sport’s lockout began one month ago.  NBA Commissioner  David Stern  said after yesterday’s three-
hour meeting that the union isn’t negotiating in good faith. The
players made the same complaint against the league in a filing
with the  National Labor Relations Board  in May.  “I don’t feel optimistic about the players’ willingness to
engage in a serious way,” Stern told reporters. “We’re at the
same place as we were 30 days ago.”  At issue is how to split money from a league that generated
about $4.3 billion in revenue last season. Yesterday’s talks
didn’t focus on how much revenue each side should receive, union
President  Derek Fisher  of the Los Angeles Lakers said.  “You can only go so long discussing non-economic or system
issues,” Fisher told reporters. “It eventually all brings you
back to, ‘What’s the split?’”  National Basketball Players Association  Executive Director
 Billy Hunter  has said that a proposal given to the players prior
to the expiration of the collective bargaining agreement leaves
the sides more than $7 billion apart over the 10-year life of
the contract.  Further Talks  Yesterday’s meeting in New York followed smaller sessions
last month, and was the first to include Stern or Hunter since
the league locked its players out on July 1.  The parties agreed to meet once more in the next two weeks
and perhaps twice before the end of August, Fisher said.  New Jersey Nets All-Star guard  Deron Williams  is among the
players who have announced plans to compete in  Europe  during the
work stoppage.  Some top player agents also have met with Hunter to discuss
the possibility of decertifying the union, which would allow
players to file individual antitrust claims against the NBA.  The union’s focus still is to achieve an agreement through
negotiations and not the court system, Fisher said yesterday.
The NLRB also has yet to rule on the unfair labor charge against
the league.  “We’re not ramping the troops or circling the wagons to
prepare for it,” Fisher said about the possibility of
decertification. “We’re focused on just getting a fair deal
done.”  The  National Football League  on July 25 announced the end
of its own lockout after agreeing with the NFL Players
Association on a 10-year contract.  “We’re looking at a league that was the most profitable in
sports that became more profitable by virtue of concessions from
their players, and with an average salary of $2 million,” Stern
said about the NFL settlement. “Our average salary is $5
million and we’re not profitable. And we just can’t seem to get
over the gap that separates us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 