-- 
New Coach Klinsmann Says U.S. Soccer Needs Identity, Youth Development

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-01T17:59:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/new-coach-klinsmann-says-u-s-soccer-needs-identity-youth-development.html
Development at the youth level and
discovering a national identity are the two biggest challenges
facing the U.S. men’s national soccer team, new coach Jurgen Klinsmann said today.  He said the U.S. still has a long way to go to be a top-10
soccer nation.  Klinsmann, a 47-year-old former  World Cup  player for
Germany, was appointed the 35th coach in the history of the U.S.
program on July 29, one day after Bob Bradley was fired.
Klinsmann said that with America’s “melting pot” culture,
finding an identity will be paramount to the team’s success.  “Soccer in a certain way reflects the culture of the
country,” Klinsmann said at a news conference in New York.
“One of my challenges will be to find a way to find a U.S. team
to represent its country. What should be the style of play? Is
it more proactive and aggressive, or is it more a reacting style
of play?”  Klinsmann, who coached the German national team to a third-
place finish in the 2006 World Cup, cited the youth soccer
structure, its heightened emphasis on education and  Major League
Soccer  as three of the principle differences between the U.S.
sport and programs in  Europe  and  South America . Youth soccer in
those regions is more structured, and players often turn
professional without attending college.  “I think it is important over the next three years that I
have a lot of conversation with people involved in the game here
to find a way to define that style and what suits us best,” he
said.  U.S. Connections  Klinsmann has lived in America for 13 years and said he
considers his family “more American than German.” He said he
intends to remain close with former national players Claudio Reyna, now  U.S. Soccer ’s youth technical director, and Tab Ramos, who coaches the under-20 team.  U.S. Soccer President Sunil Gulati said Klinsmann was
chosen because of his experience in the international game and
his familiarity with America. He called this the start of a
“new era.”  “Whenever we think about an international coach, will they
know America?” Gulati told reporters. “Will they know the
difference between Duke and the Portland Timbers.  All things
that are specific to the U.S. Jurgen’s got that.”  A Southern California resident, Klinsmann said he thought
about coaching the U.S. team before he took the reins of the
German national team in July 2004.  “I always kind of stayed deeply connect with the U.S.,”
he said.  Last Losses  Bradley had a 43-25-12 record in his five years as U.S.
coach, leading the team to the 2007 CONCACAF Gold Cup title and
a runner-up spot at the 2009 FIFA Confederations Cup. The U.S.
reached the Round of 16 at the 2010 World Cup, where it lost to
 Ghana  after extra time, and this summer blew a 2-0 lead in
losing 4-2 to  Mexico  in the Gold Cup final, in his final two
major tournaments.  Klinsmann said he has been impressed with the progress that
American soccer made under Bradley and his predecessor, Bruce Arena. The team has qualified for every World Cup since 1990 and
the MLS has grown to 18 teams, with another expansion coming
next season.  “It’s come a long way, soccer in the  United States , and I
am now getting the opportunity to move it further,” Klinsmann
said. “The awareness is just getting bigger and bigger. It’s
growing -- you can’t stop soccer anymore in this country.”  Different Expectations  Klinsmann said expectations will be different than when he
coached in  Germany , where anything but a World Cup final was a
disappointment. In America, getting through the group stages is
important and winning a quarterfinal game is “huge,” he said.  “There are a lot of different challenges ahead of us,
especially in the foundation level, and the foundation is
youth,” Klinsmann said. “This is what is still really missing
compared to the leading soccer nations around the world -- the
amount of time kids play the game.”  Klinsmann said he would like to see the “very hectic”
style of play in the MLS settle down and become more technical,
and for young Americans to grow more comfortable when possessing
the ball.  “It’s come a long way, but we have quite a way to go still
to break into the top 10 in the world,” Klinsmann said. “We
need to be realistic that we do not belong there now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 