-- 
News Corp. Names Andrea Zappia as CEO of Sky Italia, Succeeding Mockridge

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-01T11:31:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/news-corp-appoints-andrea-zappia-chief-executive-of-its-sky-italia-unit.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  named Andrea Zappia as
Chief Executive Officer of Italian pay-TV operator Sky Italia,
replacing the manager who succeeded Rebekah Brooks as head of
the U.K. newspaper division following a phone-hacking scandal.  Zappia will start immediately, the company said in a
statement today. He was responsible for marketing and business
Development at Sky Italia between 2003 and 2007 and joined
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , News Corp.’s U.K.-based pay-
TV division, in 2010 to lead sales and marketing.  News Corp., controlled by  Rupert Murdoch , is struggling to
move past a phone-hacking scandal, which caused it to drop a 7.8
billion pound ($12.8 billion) bid for the remaining 61 percent
of BSkyB if doesn’t already own. Zappia’s predecessor at  Sky
Italia , Tom Mockridge, was named CEO of newspaper unit News
International. He replaced Brooks who faces an investigation
over claims that employees illegally intercepted voice-mail
messages when she was editor of the News of the World tabloid.  While Murdoch, 80, built his empire on newspapers including
the New York Post and London’s Times, subscription businesses
such as pay-TV are now the core of New York-based News Corp. Sky
Italia’s main competitor is  Mediaset SpA (MS) , the broadcaster
controlled by Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi. The two
companies are vying for viewers, lowering prices and adding
high-definition broadcasts.  In May, Sky Italia forecast it will have more than 5
million subscribers by the end of this summer.  Marketing Experience  Zappia, who has also worked in marketing at carmaker
Ferrari and consumer goods company  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  has a
“breadth of experience across a range of roles, covering
operations, sports, marketing, broadband and branding, and a
range of sectors,” James Murdoch, BSkyB’s chairman and Rupert’s
son, said in the statement.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing news and financial information.  Allegations of phone hacking at the now-closed News of the
World newspaper in the U.K. have led to the arrest of at least
10 people, including Brooks, and ex-News of the World editor
 Andy Coulson , who was Prime Minister David Cameron’s press chief
until January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  