-- 
News Corp.’s Sun ‘Spied’ on Soccer Star Gascoigne in Clinic, Lawsuit Says

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-08-01T18:00:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/news-corp-s-sun-spied-on-soccer-star-gascoigne-in-clinic-lawsuit-says.html
Former soccer player Paul Gascoigne
accused  News Corp. (NWS) ’s the Sun newspaper of spying on him while he
was at a clinic receiving treatment for alcohol addiction.  Gascoigne, who is separately suing over phone hacking at
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World, said in a June 29 court filing
that the Sun paid two people to spy on him while he was in a
rehabilitation facility. The former member of the English
national soccer team is suing for breach of privacy and libel
over articles appearing in the Sun in July 2010.  The articles “caused such distress that the challenge of
rehabilitation became ever more difficult,” Gascoigne said in
the lawsuit.  The allegations come as News Corp. fights to contain the
scandal engulfing its U.K. publishing arm over the conduct of
journalists and investigators at the News of the World tabloid.
New York-based News Corp. closed the 168-year-old tabloid last
month and ordered an internal investigation following
allegations reporters and investigators hacked into the messages
of celebrities, crime victims and a murdered schoolgirl.  News Corp.’s News International unit, publisher of the Sun,
paid two people described as “locals” to spy on Gascoigne
while he was receiving medical treatment at the clinic in
Bournemouth,  England , his lawyers said in the court filing.  News International hasn’t received any notification about
Gascoigne’s claim that he was spied on, a company spokesman said
in a phone interview. Gerald Shamash, a lawyer for Gascoigne,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail.  Phone-Hacking Case  In separate suit against the U.K. unit, Gascoigne is one of
five celebrities, politicians and athletes suing News
International over claims the News of the World illegally
intercepted voice mail messages to write stories. A test case is
scheduled to be heard in January.  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. is under investigation by
police and two parliamentary committees over phone hacking at
the now-defunct News of the World tabloid, and allegations that
the newspaper bribed police for confidential information.  Police opened a third investigation over the weekend into
computer hacking and breach of privacy allegations by News
International that fall outside of the remit of the current
phone hacking probe. The new investigation, dubbed Operation
Tuleta, stems from allegations received by the police since
January.  The case is: Paul John Gascoigne v. News Group Newspapers
Ltd., No. HQ11002403  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  