-- 
Nigeria’s Oil, Gas Reserves Declining at About 12% a Year

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-08-01T13:49:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/nigeria-s-oil-gas-reserves-declining-at-about-12-a-year-1-.html
Nigeria ’s oil and gas reserves are
declining at as much as 12 percent a year, with production from
onshore and shallow-water  oil fields  having reached their peak,
Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said.  Africa’s largest oil producer plans to boost deep-water
production through measures including the passage of a new oil
industry law before the end of this year, Alison-Madueke told
reporters today in Abuja, the capital. Nigeria needs to take a
“pragmatic approach” in the new legislation to address
concerns by international energy companies that the new law will
hand too much profit and control to the state, she said.  Nigeria missed its target to boost reserves to 40 billion
barrels and raise output to 4 million barrels a day by 2010.
Total crude oil and condensate reserves fell 4.8 percent to
37.16 billion barrels from 38.76 billion barrels in 2010,
according to the  Department of Petroleum Resources , the
country’s oil industry regulator. Oil exploration in Nigeria
slumped to the lowest in a decade after producers including
Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Total SA backed away from investing
until the country’s petroleum law is passed.  Nigeria is the fifth-biggest source of U.S. oil imports.
Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron Corp., Total
SA and Eni SpA operate joint ventures with the state-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90 percent
of the West African nation’s crude.  A new law that will change the way the oil industry is
funded and regulated, will be given “speedy passage” when
parliament returns from a six-week recess in September, Alison-
Madueke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  