-- 
Nigerian Stocks Rise First Day in 4 on Oceanic Takeover Deal

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-08-01T15:12:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/nigerian-stocks-index-rises-first-day-in-four-on-oceanic-s-takeover-accord.html
Nigeria’s stock index rose for the
first day in four after  Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI)  agreed to buy
 Oceanic Bank International Plc (OCEANIC) , which was bailed out by the
nation’s  central bank  in 2009.  The Nigeria Stock Exchange All Share Index gained 0.4
percent to 23,916.9 by the 2:30 p.m. close in Lagos, according
to figures e-mailed by the  Nigerian Stock Exchange . Oceanic
climbed for the first day in six, adding 4.2 percent to 1 naira.  Oceanic is the fourth lender of eight rescued by the
Central Bank of Nigeria two years ago to conclude a sale
agreement. The central bank, which provided the lenders with 620
billion naira in 2009 after loans to equity speculators
contributed to 700 billion naira of non-performing debt, has
given the lenders until Sept. 30 to be recapitalized or risk
being liquidated.  “The rescued banks were threatened with imminent
liquidation so the announcement by ETI and Oceanic is boosting
confidence in the banking sector,” David Adonri, chief
executive officer of Lambeth Trust & Investment Co., a Lagos-
based brokerage, said by phone today.  Union Bank Nigeria Plc (UBN)  will receive $750 million in new
capital after the country’s second-oldest bank signed an
“implementation agreement” with a group led by private equity
company African Capital Alliance, it said on July 12.  Access Bank Plc signed an agreement with  Intercontinental
Bank Plc (INTERCON) , one of the rescued lenders, for an acquisition, while
First City Monument Bank Plc last month signed an agreement to
buy  Finbank Plc (FIRSTINL) , whose chief executive officer was one of eight
bank heads fired by the central bank in 2009 as part of its
measures to curb the industry’s decline.  Other Lenders  Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, or Amcon, created by the
central bank to buy the lenders’ non-performing loans, may
become a majority shareholder in rescued banks by filling their
equity shortfalls, Deputy Governor Kingsley Moghalu, said on
July 1. While nationalization is not the “favored option,” it
is preferable to liquidation, and if Amcon takes a majority
stake in a lender, it may manage the bank for a year or two
before selling it, he said.  The other lenders bailed out are Afribank Plc,  Spring Bank
Plc (SPRINGBK) ,  Bank PHB Plc (PLATINUM) , and Equitorial Trust Bank, which is privately
held.  Shares in Ecobank, the Togolese lender that operates in
more than 30 African countries, were unchanged in Lagos trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  