-- 
NKSJ May Boost Spending for Takeovers Abroad, President Says

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-08-01T06:10:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/nksj-may-boost-spending-for-takeovers-abroad-insurer-chief-says.html
NKSJ Holdings Inc. (8630) ,  Japan ’s third-
largest non-life insurer, may increase the amount it will spend
for acquisitions abroad as it aims to counter declining demand
at home, President Masatoshi Sato said.  NKSJ, formed as a holdings company of Sompo Japan Insurance
Inc. and Nipponkoa Insurance Co. last year, may boost the budget
allocated for overseas acquisitions from the current 200 billion
yen ($2.6 billion), Sato said. The Tokyo-based company last year
announced plans to use some of 300 billion yen proceeds from
selling cross-shareholdings for merger and acquisitions.  “We still have a buffer of about 100 billion yen and if
opportunity poses, we may well increase the budget,” Sato said
in an interview in Tokyo on July 29. “M&A is a wave we need to
catch when the opportunity arises.”  NKSJ is reviewing its mid-term goals following the March
earthquake, including an increase in profit by 2015 announced in
May 2010, Sato said. He’s sticking to his plan of targeting the
so-called BRIC nations that include  Brazil ,  Russia ,  China  and
 India , as well as Southeast Asian countries to cope with Japan’s
aging population and declining car sales that cut domestic
demand after the catastrophe.  The insurer has a presence in 41 locations in 29 countries,
according to Sato. The company recently bought stakes in Fiba
Sigorta Anonim Sirketi, a Turkish non-life insurer, and Tenet
Insurance Co., a Singaporean insurance company.  NKSJ shares gained as much as 2 percent to 520 yen and
closed at 510 yen at 3 p.m. in Tokyo. The stock has declined 15
percent this year, compared with the 9 percent drop by the six-
member Topix Insurance Index.  Tailwind  The recent strength in the Japanese currency will give a
“tailwind” to seeking acquisitions, Sato said. The yen has
strengthened 4.2 percent against the dollar this year, making it
cheaper to buy assets denominated in foreign currencies.  Japanese insurers are looking overseas as they grapple with
an aging society and declines in returns on their securities
holdings in the aftermath of the nation’s record earthquake in
March. NKSJ turned to a loss of 12.9 billion yen last fiscal
year on insurance payments related to the magnitude-9 temblor
and valuation losses on securities holdings.  NKSJ expected to save about 30 billion yen in the fiscal
year 2012 through combining Sompo Japan and Nipponkoa. The
insurer is targeting a profit of 160 billion yen for the fiscal
year ending March 2015, compared with the 16 billion yen
forecast for the year ending March 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in  Tokyo  at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  