-- 
Obama’s Grand Deficit Bargain Lost Out to 2012 Politics

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-08-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/obama-s-grand-deficit-bargain-lost-out-to-2012-politics.html
     Aug. 1 (Bloomberg) - As late as last week, President  Barack Obama  was still calling for one, broad debt agreement that
included cuts, entitlements and taxes.  That’s not what will go before Congress this week, and
Obama’s strategic positioning contributed to the missed
opportunity for a potentially historic bipartisan deal, said
Democrats, retired lawmakers and former White House advisers
with experience in bipartisan negotiations.  Obama came months late to the negotiations, allowed 2012
election concerns to shape his timing and willingness to
advocate Social Security and Medicare reductions, and undermined
his position by shifting his priorities, they said.  Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, said Obama was
unwilling to press the argument that the wealthiest should pay
more in taxes to increase government revenues, causing many
Democrats to view the deal with “a lot of unease,” he said.  “I just don’t think the president has been willing to
really fight hard for revenues,” he said.  Trent Lott, a lobbyist, Mississippi Republican and former
Senate majority leader who left office in 2007, said of Obama,
“I don’t think the president’s involvement was early enough,
that he really understood what was needed to get this thing
done.”  Imperfect Agreement  In an appearance in the West Wing of the White House last
night, Obama said the final compromise includes cuts of about $1
trillion and relies on a bipartisan congressional committee to
propose by November $1.5 trillion in other deficit reductions
that could come from cuts, changes to entitlement programs and
tax increases. The agreement paves the way for Congress to vote
to raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and avoid an Aug. 2
default.  “Is this the deal I would have preferred? No,” Obama
said. “I believe we could have made the tough choices required
-- on entitlement reform and  tax reform  -- right now, rather
than through a special congressional process.”  Obama “let the momentum die,” said David Gergen, director
of Harvard University’s Center for Public Leadership in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and an adviser to Presidents Nixon,
Ford, Reagan and Clinton. “There’s shared blame. Everybody’s
fingerprints are on this mess. This will be a case study one day
for college students on failed politics.”  William A. Galston, a former policy adviser to President
Clinton and a governance scholar at the Washington-based
 Brookings Institution , a nonpartisan policy group, said the 2010
midterms dealt Obama “a very tough hand.” Republicans won
control of the U.S. House with a freshman class that included
dozens of lawmakers opposed to raising the debt limit. Within
those limits, Galston said, Obama “tried to do a lot in a very
short period of time, under great pressure.”  Presidential Engagement  White House officials say the president has been doing all
he can to forge a compromise. “Every day. Every hour,” White
House press secretary  Jay Carney  said on July 26. Carney said
it’s “a fallacy” to suggest Obama didn’t propose enough detail
or meet enough with congressional leaders.  “Either the president ‘isn’t engaged enough’ or ‘he’s too
engaged,’” Carney said, expressing a sense that Obama will be
criticized no matter what actions he takes. “We have operated
in good faith. We have made extreme compromise.”  Throughout the negotiations, financial markets have avoided
tumult. Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes have
fluctuated between 3.18 percent and 2.80 percent during the past
two months. That compares with an average of 4.03 percent since
2001.  Early Mistake  As Gergen sees it, Obama made an early error when he failed
to adopt the findings of the National Commission on Fiscal
Responsibility and Reform. The Obama-appointed commission headed
by  Alan Simpson , a former Republican senator from  Wyoming , and
Erskine Bowles, a former chief of staff to President  Bill Clinton , in December recommended a combination of spending cuts,
entitlement program adjustments and tax changes to cut $3.8
trillion from the deficit.  White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley told  CNN  on July 28
it was clear  House Republicans  weren’t willing to accept the
Simpson-Bowles recommendations.  Gergen said the prospects of Republican resistance may have
been only one factor in the White House decision. “I suspect
that the politics of 2012 had a lot to do with it,” Gergen
said. “He wasn’t anxious to tie himself, I’m sure, to some
aspects of entitlement reform that would have stirred up his
base.”  Ryan Budget  The president waited to release his own deficit-reduction
proposal until House Republican Budget Chairman  Paul Ryan  of
 Wisconsin  unveiled a 10-year  plan  that cut spending on Medicare
-- drawing accusations from Democrats that Republicans would
weaken health insurance coverage for the elderly. Though that
helped Democrats politically, it narrowed the time window for a
large-scale deal, Galston said.  The White House defends its handling of the Simpson-Bowles
report. By forcing Republicans to write their own deficit
reduction plan, Obama gained more negotiating leverage when the
public rejected it. Had Obama endorsed the commission’s
recommendations, Republicans would have simply seized on the
proposed cuts and forced negotiations on the commission’s
recommendations rather than revealing their own intentions.  “OK, so he smoked them out,” Galston said. “What did it
get him? If your objective is to be a president who achieves
transformational change, then I’m not sure waiting from December
to mid-April is wise,” Galston said. In the end, Obama “was
forced into defense early on and it’s not clear to me he was
ever able to regain the offensive.”  Obama Proposal  In April, the president proposed a $4 trillion, 12-year
deficit-cutting plan, with $3 in cuts for every $1 in tax
increases. Social Security benefit adjustments were not part of
that plan.  From that point on, Obama’s position began shifting.  At first, Obama said Congress must not tie a debt-ceiling
increase to the debate over reducing the deficit. After
Republicans ignored his demand, he said a debt-ceiling increase
should be as long-term as possible and tied to as much deficit-
cutting as possible.  In July, Obama surprised Democratic lawmakers and activists
when he discussed reducing cost-of-living adjustments to Social
Security in deficit negotiations with House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, Democratic officials said. In
exchange for that, Obama insisted on tax changes that would
produce at least $800 billion in new revenue.  When those talks collapsed -- with Boehner claiming the
White House suddenly sought $400 billion more in revenues --
Obama continued to insist that any plan must have a balance of
cuts and revenue increases. Last week, Obama backtracked and
endorsed a cuts-only compromise proposed by Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat.  Cuts and Committee  The final compromise under discussions on  Capitol Hill 
would include cuts and set up a committee that would later
address changes in Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security and the
 tax code .  “Seeing a Democratic president take taxing the rich off
the table and instead push a deal that will lead to Social
Security, Medicare and Medicaid benefit cuts is like entering a
bizarre parallel universe,” said Stephanie Taylor, co-founder
of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, a Washington-based
Democratic group.  As the default deadline loomed, Obama said that the final
deal must extend the debt limit through the end of 2012. Daley
said he would veto a plan that didn’t. The Office of Management
and Budget last week released a recommendation that Obama carry
out such a veto, not a guarantee that he would.  Final Talks  After a weekend of discussions among Republicans and
Obama’s team, congressional leaders were putting the final
touches last night on a deal that would cut spending by about $1
trillion. The plan also calls on Congress to decide by year’s
end how to shave another $1.5 trillion from long-term debt by
2021 -- or face punishing reductions across all government
areas, including Medicare and defense programs, according to
congressional officials.  Congress did agree to Obama’s demand that the deal take the
issue of raising the debt ceiling off the table until after the
2012 presidential campaign, although the language provides
opportunities for Congress to vote its disapproval.  White House officials said the ultimate shape of the deal
left them well-positioned to protect Obama’s priorities before
the committee. While there is no automatic tax increase in the
enforcement mechanism, half the automatic spending cuts would
target defense programs popular among Republicans, and
Democratic priorities such as Medicare and Social Security
benefits and programs for the poor would be protected. The
automatic spending cuts would be delayed to coincide with the
expiration of the Bush tax cuts in 2013, giving the president
greater leverage to press to include  tax revenue  in the
committee’s recommendations.  “It is certainly possible that Obama is playing a long
game that will be effective over time, that despite the lumps he
is taking now he would be seen in retrospect as taking a
reasonably steady and balanced course, keeping his head while
people on all sides were losing theirs.” Galston said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 morning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 