-- 
House Passes $2.1 Trillion U.S. Debt-Limit Increase; Senate to Vote Aug. 2

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-08-01T23:21:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/obama-debt-cap-deal-with-congress-leaders-avoids-default-vote-due-today.html
The  House of Representatives  
approved legislation to raise the U.S. debt limit by at least 
$2.1 trillion and cut federal spending by $2.4 trillion or 
more, one day before a threatened default.  The House voted 269-161 for the plan negotiated by leaders
and President  Barack Obama  over the weekend. Ninety-five
Democrats voted in favor and 66 Republicans in opposition. The
measure goes to the Senate for a final vote planned tomorrow.  “We’re coming up to a deadline we all must recognize:
default,” said Representative Paul Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican
and chairman of the Budget Committee. “Both parties got us in
this mess; both parties are going to have to work together to
get us out.”  Ryan called the spending cuts connected to the debt-ceiling
increase “a huge cultural change” for Congress.  Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , the Arizona Democrat
wounded in a shooting attack, drew a long standing ovation as
she arrived to vote for the measure, making her first appearance
on the House floor since the Jan. 8 assault in Tucson.  Final approval in the Senate would send the debt-limit
measure to Obama for his signature and conclude a months-long
battle over raising the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and reining
in  government spending .  ‘Not One Red Cent’  “It’s hard to believe we are putting our best foot forward
with the legislation that comes before us today,” said House
Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi of  California . “Not one red
cent” will come from the wealthiest Americans to cut the
deficit, she said. Still, she said she supports the plan because
it ends economic uncertainty and prevents cuts in Social
Security and Medicare.  Treasuries rose, pushing the yields on 10-year notes to the
lowest level since November, as an index showed U.S.
manufacturing expanded in July at the slowest pace in two years.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes fell five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.74 percent at 5:02 p.m. in  New
York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125
percent securities due in May 2021 gained 14/32, or $4.38 per
$1,000 face amount, to 103 8/32.  U.S. stocks slumped. The Standard and Poor’s 500 lost 0.4
percent to 1,286.94 at 4:19 p.m. in New York after climbing as
much as 1.2 percent earlier. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
retreated 10.75 points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,132.49 today after
rising 139 points.  Averting Crisis  Democrats and Republicans praised the agreement for
averting an economic crisis, even as both sides said the
compromise fell short of their goals.  Republicans called the bill a step in the right direction
while saying government spending wasn’t pared enough. Democrats
expressed concern about making deep spending cuts in a fragile
economy and not spreading the sacrifice to the nation’s
wealthiest through higher taxes.  “I am voting for this bill not because I like this bill,”
said Representative  Steny Hoyer , the second-ranking Democrat in
the House. “Default for the  United States of America  is not an
option. This would affect all of the people I represent and all
of the people of this country.”  Both parties worked today to sell the deal to their rank
and file.  “We’re very optimistic we’re going to do well,” Senate
Republican leader Mitch McConnell, of  Kentucky  said after a
meeting where he briefed Senate Republicans on the plan.  No Tax Increase  House Republican leaders cast the deal as a victory because
it doesn’t raise taxes and makes most of the spending cuts they
sought.  “It gives us the best shot that we’ve had in the 20 years
that I’ve been here to build support for a balanced budget
amendment to the Constitution,” to put “fiscal handcuffs” on
Congress, House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  told reporters.  Ryan said his party got two-thirds of the cuts to
discretionary spending that it wanted.  “This legislation is typical for compromise legislation,”
said Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat.
“Neither side got what they wanted.”  Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, said he will
support the legislation though it doesn’t do enough to tackle
long-term spending and revenue. Warner, one of a bipartisan
group that offered a $3.7 trillion deficit-cutting plan, said,
“This doesn’t get us to the core problem of how do we take on
 tax reform , how do we take on entitlement reform.”  Defense Spending Cuts  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, said
he won’t support the plan in part because of cuts to defense
spending. Initially, the Defense Department could see $325
billion in cuts over 10 years as part of the bill’s first round
of deficit-cutting, similar to what the Obama administration has
proposed, according to an administration official. It’s the
second phase of $1.5 trillion in cuts envisioned, with about
half coming from national security, that could jeopardize
Defense Department operations.  “If fully implemented, the consequences to our nation’s
defense infrastructure would be severe,” Graham said in a
statement. “What has happened to the party of Reagan who viewed
the primary purpose of the federal government was to provide a
strong national defense?”  The overall plan would save $2.1 trillion over the next 10
years, according to the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .  Money Out of Pockets  Representative Brad Miller, a North Carolina Democrat, said
the immediate spending cuts will contract the economy. The
measure “is going to take money out of the economy, it is going
to take money out of people’s pockets,” he said.  The Treasury Department has said it will reach the
borrowing limit and run out of options for avoiding default
tomorrow without action by Congress.  “The threat of default is now for certain off the specter
of this economy, no longer a headwind” for the  U.S. economy ,
Gene Sperling, director of the National Economic Council, said
today on Bloomberg Television.  The measure would raise the debt ceiling in two
installments, sufficient to serve the nation’s needs into early
2013. The framework would cut $917 billion in spending over a
decade, raise the debt limit initially by $900 billion and
assign a special congressional committee to find another $1.5
trillion in deficit savings by late November, to be enacted by
Christmas.  Constitutional Amendment  If Congress met that deadline and deficit target, or voted
to send a balanced-budget constitutional amendment to the
states, Obama would receive another $1.5 trillion borrowing
boost.  In the case of Congress failing to take either step, or not
producing debt savings of at least $1.2 trillion, the plan
allows the president to obtain a $1.2 trillion debt-ceiling
extension. That would trigger automatic spending cuts across the
government -- including in defense and Medicare -- to take
effect starting in 2013. The Medicare cuts would only affect
provider reimbursements, not benefits.  An initial $400 billion increase in borrowing authority
couldn’t be blocked under the deal. While Congress would get a
chance to avert both debt-limit increases through disapproval
resolutions, there’s little chance opponents could muster the
two-thirds majorities needed in both chambers to override
Obama’s veto.  Concessions  Both sides made concessions. Republicans dropped their
insistence on withholding some of the borrowing authority until
future spending cuts had been made and a balanced budget
amendment to the Constitution had been passed by both chambers
of Congress.  The White House agreed to forgo an automatic tax increase,
a sticking point for Republicans, as one of the consequences to
kick in if no debt-reduction law was enacted by Christmas.  Even so, Obama has an opportunity to increase revenue in
the future if he opts to allow the tax cuts enacted under  George W. Bush  to expire as scheduled in 2013. He could veto
legislation to extend those cuts -- producing an estimated $3.5
trillion.  White House officials said the enforcement mechanisms will
help them press Obama’s agenda as further deficit reductions are
made, including additional  tax revenue .  The automatic spending cuts would include deep reductions
in the  defense budget , which Republicans oppose. That measure
preserves leverage for Democrats in committee negotiations, the
officials told reporters on condition of anonymity.  Spending Cuts Delayed  Because any spending cuts would be delayed until 2013,
timed to coincide with the expiration of the Bush tax cuts,
Republicans would have an added incentive to agree to overhaul
taxes, which Democrats want to use for raising revenue.  Republicans argue that while the super-committee could
propose tax increases, it wouldn’t likely do so because the
rules of the deal require that it assume -- as the CBO does --
the Bush tax cuts expire as scheduled at the end of 2012. That
would mean that to count any new revenue toward  deficit
reduction , the committee would need to both erase the Bush tax
reductions and then generate additional revenue on top of that.  In addition to guaranteeing a vote on the balanced-budget
constitutional amendment between October and the end of the
year, the agreement could give Republicans a chance to renew
their push for the measure at the height of 2012 campaigns.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  