-- 
Obama Remarks on Agreement to Increase U.S. Federal Debt Limit (Full Text)

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-01T02:09:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/obama-remarks-on-agreement-to-increase-u-s-federal-debt-limit-full-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a transcript of remarks by U.S. President  Barack
Obama  on an agreement to raise the federal debt limit, which was
issued late yesterday by the White House in  Washington .  Good evening.  There are still some very important votes to
be taken by members of Congress, but I want to announce that the
leaders of both parties, in both chambers, have reached an
agreement that will reduce the deficit and avoid default -- a
default that would have had a devastating effect on our economy.  The first part of this agreement will cut about $1 trillion
in spending over the next 10 years -- cuts that both parties had
agreed to early on in this process. The result would be the
lowest level of annual domestic spending since Dwight Eisenhower
was President -- but at a level that still allows us to make
job-creating investments in things like education and research.
We also made sure that these cuts wouldn’t happen so abruptly
that they’d be a drag on a fragile economy.  Now, I’ve said from the beginning that the ultimate
solution to our deficit problem must be balanced. Despite what
some Republicans have argued, I believe that we have to ask the
wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations to pay their fair
share by giving up tax breaks and special deductions. Despite
what some in my own party have argued, I believe that we need to
make some modest adjustments to programs like Medicare to ensure
that they’re still around for future generations.  That’s why the second part of this agreement is so
important. It establishes a bipartisan committee of Congress to
report back by November with a proposal to further reduce the
deficit, which will then be put before the entire Congress for
an up or down vote. In this stage, everything will be on the
table. To hold us all accountable for making these reforms,
tough cuts that both parties would find objectionable would
automatically go into effect if we don’t act. And over the next
few months, I’ll continue to make a detailed case to these
lawmakers about why I believe a balanced approach is necessary
to finish the job.  Now, is this the deal I would have preferred? No. I believe
that we could have made the tough choices required -- on
entitlement reform and  tax reform  -- right now, rather than
through a special congressional committee process. But this
compromise does make a serious down payment on the  deficit
reduction  we need, and gives each party a strong incentive to
get a balanced plan done before the end of the year.  Most importantly, it will allow us to avoid default and end
the crisis that Washington imposed on the rest of America. It
ensures also that we will not face this same kind of crisis
again in six months, or eight months, or 12 months.  And it will
begin to lift the cloud of debt and the cloud of uncertainty
that hangs over our economy.  Now, this process has been messy; it’s taken far too long.
I’ve been concerned about the impact that it has had on business
confidence and  consumer confidence  and the economy as a whole
over the last month. Nevertheless, ultimately, the leaders of
both parties have found their way toward compromise. And I want
to thank them for that.  Most of all, I want to thank the American people. It’s been
your voices -- your letters, your emails, your tweets, your
phone calls -- that have compelled Washington to act in the
final days. And the American people’s voice is a very, very
powerful thing.  We’re not done yet. I want to urge members of both parties
to do the right thing and support this deal with your votes over
the next few days. It will allow us to avoid default. It will
allow us to pay our bills. It will allow us to start reducing
our deficit in a responsible way. And it will allow us to turn
to the very important business of doing everything we can to
create jobs, boost wages, and grow this economy faster than it’s
currently growing.  That’s what the American people sent us here to do, and
that’s what we should be devoting all of our time to
accomplishing in the months ahead.  Thank you very much, everybody. 