-- 
Oil Declines for Third Day on U.S. Economic Outlook; Stockpiles May Climb

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-08-02T07:16:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/oil-gains-for-first-day-in-three-in-new-york-recovers-from-one-month-low.html
Oil declined for a third day in New
York as signs the  U.S. economy  is slowing countered speculation
the world’s biggest crude consumer will solve its debt crisis.  Oil fell as much as 0.7 percent, paring earlier gains, as
concern shifted to the slowing U.S. recovery after the House
approved legislation to raise the debt limit, a day before a
possible default. A report today is forecast to show personal
spending stalled in June and a gauge of manufacturing yesterday
weakened to a two-year low. U.S. crude inventories probably
climbed for a second week, according to a Bloomberg survey
before a government data is released tomorrow.  “Although the debt-ceiling situation seems to have been
resolved, these weak macro-indicators out of the U.S. have
overshadowed it and that’s what’s causing some weakness in the
oil price,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist
at National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne , who predicts crude
will average $98 a barrel in the third quarter.  Crude for September delivery dropped as much as 68 cents to
$94.21 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $94.22 at 5:14 p.m. in Sydney today. It
earlier rose as much as 56 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $95.45. The
contract yesterday fell 81 cents to $94.89, the lowest since
June 29. Prices are 16 percent higher the past year.  Brent oil for September settlement dropped 91 cents to
$115.90 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a premium of
$21.57 a barrel to  New York  futures, compared with a record
close of $22.63 on July 14.  U.S. Stockpiles  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude
inventories climbed 1.5 million barrels in the seven days ended
July 29, according to the median of nine analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline supplies probably rose 500,000
barrels, the survey shows.  Oil in New York may fall as low as $92.50 a barrel,
dropping to the bottom of a “long-term channel,” before any
rally above $100 can be sustained, according to Societe Generale
SA. Futures may decline in the coming days to the bottom of an
upward-sloping channel that started in February 2009, said
Stephanie Aymes, a cross-commodity technical analyst at  France ’s
second-largest bank by market value.  New York futures slipped yesterday after a gauge of U.S.
manufacturing showed growth at the slowest pace in two years.
The Tempe, Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management said
its factory index decreased to 50.9 in July from 55.3 in June.  Consumer Spending  Asian stocks fell the most in three weeks. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index dropped 1.6 percent, the most since July 12, to
136.72.  A Commerce Department report today may show U.S. purchases
rose 0.1 percent in June after being little changed in May,
according to the median estimate of 77 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Personal incomes probably increased 0.2 percent
in June, the smallest gain in seven months.  Tropical Storm Emily was moving quickly westward in the
 Caribbean Sea  and was expected to strengthen, the National
Hurricane Center said in a statement. The  Dominican Republic 
issued a tropical storm warning, it said.  Hurricane Eugene, 435 miles (700 kilometers) south-
southwest of Manzanillo,  Mexico , moved west-northwestward at 13
mph with little change in strength, according to the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  