-- 
Old Mutual’s Nedbank Forecasts It Will Exceed Full-Year Earnings Targets

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-08-01T06:56:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/old-mutual-s-nedbank-forecasts-annual-earnings-above-its-financial-target.html
Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , the South African
bank controlled by insurer  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , forecast it will beat
its full-year earnings target as bad-loan impairment charges
improve and transaction revenue increases.  Per-share profit excluding one-time items climbed 26
percent to 6 rand a share in the six months through June, the
Johannesburg-based lender said in a statement today. That missed
the 6.55-rand median estimate of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Nedbank is “well positioned to deliver growth in earnings
for 2011 in excess of our medium- to long-term financial
target,” Chief Executive Officer Mike Brown said in the
statement. The lender targets earnings per share growth before
one-time items of 5 percentage points above inflation plus gross
domestic product expansion.  Nedbank , South Africa’s fourth-largest lender by assets,
added 94,000 retail-banking clients in the first half and
boosted lending to win a bigger share of South Africa’s consumer
market from rivals such as Standard Bank Group Ltd. and  Absa
Group Ltd. (ASA) , controlled by Barclays Plc. London-based Old Mutual
has said it may sell its stake in Nedbank before the end of next
year as it seeks to cut debt.  A first-half dividend of 2.65 rand was declared for the
half-year period, an increase of 25 percent, Nedbank said. Net
income in the six months ended June 30 jumped 28 percent to 2.76
billion rand ($414 million), a level still below the peak
reached before the global financial crisis in 2008.  Nedbank is the best-performing lender out of  South Africa ’s
four biggest banks on the six-member FTSE/JSE Africa Banks
Index, having returned 7.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  