-- 
Homex Bonds Double Country Returns on Debt Cuts: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 
2011-08-01T21:55:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/homex-bonds-double-country-returns-on-debt-cuts-mexico-credit.html
Desarrolladora Homex SAB, Mexico’s
largest homebuilder, is delivering more than double the returns
of the rest of the nation’s corporate bond market after reducing
debt amid concern  Standard & Poor’s  will cut its  credit rating .  Dollar-denominated notes with a three-year call option sold
by Homex in 2009 gained 2.03 percent in July, while the average
return on bonds issued by Mexican companies was 1 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Junk-rated homebuilder bonds globally returned an average 0.7
percent in July, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Mexican homebuilders from Homex to Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos
SAB are benefiting from increased demand for low-income housing
as  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy expands and  interest
rates  hold at a record low. The industry is defying the trend in
developed markets where weaker economic growth saw sales of new
homes in the U.S. drop for the second month in June and the
homeownership rate tumble to a 13-year low. Building confidence
in the euro region slumped 24.5 percent in July.  Homex “were able to de-lever slightly and that’s obviously
a positive,” Su Fei Koo, who helps manage $500 million in
emerging-market debt at Doubleline Capital LP in  Los Angeles ,
said in a phone interview on July 28. “The working capital has
improved and also the positive free  cash flow  helped.”  S&P put Homex under review on July 5 for a possible cut to
its BB- debt rating because the company’s “aggressive” plan to
increase revenue by as much as 16 percent this year had forced
it to borrow more.  Falling Yields  The homebuilder, based in Culiacan, Mexico, cut its
adjusted total debt to about 3.1 times its earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization in the three months
to June 30, from 3.3 times in the first quarter, S&P analysts
Jose Coballasi and Laura Martinez said by phone on July 28.  The yield on the company’s dollar bonds maturing in 2019
have fallen 42 basis points, or 0.42 percentage point, from an
11-month high hit on June 28. The notes yielded 7.92 percent on
July 29, the lowest level since May 30.  Bonds of  Mexico  City-based construction company Empresa ICA
SAB maturing in 2021 with a five-year call option yielded 8.06
percent at the end of last week, down 24 basis points in the
same period. Mexican corporate borrowing costs fell 11 basis
points to an average yield of 6.28 percent, JPMorgan data show.  ‘Slight Improvement’  Homex, which posted Ebitda of 1.2 billion pesos ($103
million) in the second quarter, needs to cut debt to three times
Ebitda by the end of September to maintain its rating, which is
three steps below investment grade, the S&P analysts said.  “Yes there was slight improvement,” Coballasi said from
Mexico City. “But the leverage levels are still above the range
we’d expect. For us the key point will be the performance in the
third quarter.”  S&P’s debt reduction targets are “in line with Homex’s
expectations,” Carlos Moctezuma, Homex’s chief financial
officer, said by e-mail on July 29. He said he doesn’t
anticipate the company’s rating will be affected.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 12 basis points
to 120 at 5:18 p.m. New York time, according to JP Morgan’s
Global EMBI index for the country.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 11.7199 per  U.S. dollar .  Brazilian Sales  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell two basis points to 109, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in April fell two basis points to 4.94 percent.  Homex’s net income climbed 9.7 percent to 473 million pesos
in the second quarter as housing prices picked up in Mexico and
Brazilian sales made a greater contribution to revenue. Mexico
City-based Corp. Geo SAB, Mexico’s second-largest homebuilder,
reported a 0.8 percent increase in net income to 390.4 million
pesos on July 25. Urbi, the third-biggest, said profit surged 52
percent to 648.6 million pesos in the three months to the end of
June.  ‘Will Do Well’  All of the homebuilders benefit from subsidies from the
government, which is trying to reduce a housing deficit that
leaves about 8.9 million families either without homes or living
in substandard dwellings, according to Sociedad Hipotecaria
Federal, the government unit in charge of bolstering the
mortgage industry. State agency Infonavit finances about 70
percent of Mexico’s mortgages.  “I like the homebuilding sector in Mexico,” said Joe Kogan, the head of emerging markets strategy at Scotia Capital
Markets Inc. in New York. “You’re buying into a particular
public policy which is to support housing. As long as it’s
around, there’s a good chance these homebuilders will do well.”  Mexicali-based Urbi’s dollar notes with a four-year  call
option  yield 7.32 percent, down 54 basis points since the end of
June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
Geo’s bonds also callable in 2015 has dropped 13 basis points to
7.86 percent.  Shares of some Mexican homebuilders are also gaining. Homex
stock climbed 9.6 percent to 50.78 pesos in the three trading
sessions since their earnings report. Shares of Urbi jumped 14
percent since it posted earnings. Geo’s July 28 report sparked a
3.1 percent decline in its stock over the next two days.  Investors are being lured back to homebuilder assets after
Homex bonds slid 1.5 percent in the first half of the year, said
Eric Ollom, a credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York .  “The market was overly pessimistic,” Ollom said by phone.
The companies’ bonds “have some room for upside,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  