-- 
Honda Civic Fails Consumer Reports’ Tests

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-08-01T23:33:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/honda-civic-fails-to-gain-consumer-reports-recommended-label.html
Honda Motor Co.’s newest version of
the Civic, a model that’s been a foundation of the automaker’s
U.S. sales for decades, flopped in tests by  Consumer Reports ,
failing to win the magazine’s coveted “Recommended” status.  The 2012 Civic scored 61 in Consumer Report’s evaluation,
down from 78 for the previous Civic, according to a review in
the September issue published this week. The car, on sale since
late April, scored poorly because of a decline in agility and
interior quality, choppier ride, longer stopping distances, and
more road noise compared with the last Civic, the magazine said.  “While other models like the Hyundai Elantra have gotten
better after being redesigned, the Civic has dropped so much
that now it ranks near the bottom of its category,”  David Champion , senior director of Consumer Reports’ auto test center,
 Connecticut , said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Honda models since the 1980s have consistently ranked among
the most frequently recommended by the magazine published by
Yonkers, New York-based Consumers Union, a non-profit group.
Carmakers seek favorable evaluations from the magazine as its
reviews are considered the most objective because of policies of
accepting no advertising and buying every vehicle it tests.  “We disagree with Consumer Reports’ findings,” Honda said
in an e-mailed statement. “In virtually every way, the
completely redesigned 2012 Civic is a step forward.”  Production Woes  Civic is Honda’s second-biggest selling model in the U.S.,
after the midsize Accord sedan. Sales of the car this year
through June dropped 14 percent to 127,102 from a year ago.
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s rival Elantra compact in the same period had
a 79 percent jump in U.S. deliveries to 103,301.  The poor ranking for Civic, sold in the U.S. since 1973,
compounds problems for Honda.  The company,  Japan ’s third-largest automaker, has had
limited inventory of its new Civic line since the record
earthquake in Japan in March, which limited supplies of
electronics and other components needed for the new model.
Production of the car at Honda plants in the U.S. and  Canada 
remains at about half of normal volume because of parts
shortages.  Honda’s showing in Consumer Reports came after the
company’s Greensburg, Indiana, plant, one of its factories that
produces the Civic, received a quality award in June from J.D.
Power & Associates. The award was part of the research firm’s
new-car quality survey.  Honda said in  Tokyo  yesterday that net income in the
quarter that ended June 30 plunged 88 percent to 31.8 billion
($411.9 million) from a year earlier as a result of quake-
related production disruptions and a rise in the yen’s value
that cut earnings from exports.  Honda’s American depositary receipts, representing one
ordinary share, rose 20 cents to $39.98 yesterday in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The company’s U.S. sales unit
is based in Torrance,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  