-- 
Honda Raises Full Year Net Income Forecast by 18% on Faster Quake Recovery

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-08-01T07:32:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/honda-motor-raises-full-year-net-income-forecast-by-18-to-2-96-billion.html
Honda Motor Co.,  Japan ’s third-
largest carmaker, raised its full-year profit forecast by 18
percent on a quicker-than-expected recovery from the March 11
earthquake.  Tokyo-based Honda may post net income of 230 billion yen
($2.96 billion) in the year ending March 31, 2012, compared with
an earlier forecast of 195 billion yen, it said in a statement
today. The automaker posted a profit of 534 billion yen in the
year-earlier period.  Honda and other Japanese automakers are recovering from the
magnitude-9 temblor and tsunami in March, which damaged car
factories and caused parts and power shortages. The yen also
gained 11 percent against the dollar last quarter from a year
earlier, cutting the value of profits from exports. The
automaker now expects to sell 4 percent more vehicles this
fiscal year compared with its outlook in June, citing better
parts supply.  Honda raising its forecast “is a sign that production is
recovering at a faster-than-expected pace, and that even with
the high yen, sales are strong,” said  Tatsuya Mizuno , a director
at Mizuno Credit Advisory in Tokyo. “It also shows that even
with the strong yen, because Honda has production bases in  Asia 
and overseas as well, they’ve managed to decrease the impact of
the currency.”  Honda shares rose 1.5 percent to 3,125 yen as of the 3 p.m.
close of trading in Tokyo.  Better-Than-Expected Sales  The maker of Civic and Accord sedans also raised the 12-
month sales forecast by 4.8 percent to 8.7 trillion yen, up from
a previous estimate for 8.3 trillion yen. The automaker now
expects to sell 3.435 million vehicles in the year ending March
2012, up from an earlier estimate of 3.3 million.  “We‘ve been able to move up the recovery from the parts
shortage,’’ Fumihiko Ike, Honda’s chief financial officer, said
in  Tokyo  today. ‘‘Most of the increase in higher sales will be
booked in this quarter.’’  Honda said fiscal first-quarter net income plunged 88
percent after the March 11 earthquake disrupted production and
the strong yen cut earnings from exports.  April-June Quarter  The carmaker posted 31.8 billion yen in net income in the
three months ended June 30, compared with 272 billion yen a year
earlier. Honda was expected to post a net loss of 36.2 billion
yen, according to the mean of eight analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales fell 27 percent to 1.7 trillion yen from 2.4
trillion yen in the period.  A stronger yen cut Honda’s first-quarter operating profit
by 22.5 billion yen, while the impact from the earthquake was
225 billion yen. Global car sales fell 39 percent in the three
months ended June to 547,000, the company said. The automaker
won’t accelerate overseas production plans due to the yen, Ike
said. The carmaker is basing its fiscal year forecast on 80 yen
to the dollar and 112 yen to the euro.  Honda’s first-quarter profit compares with larger rival
Nissan Motor Co.’s first-quarter result of 85 billion yen net
income.  Honda was particularly hard-hit by a shortage of
semiconductors because it had ordered a new type of chip for its
updated Civic compact, which went on sale in the U.S. in late
April.  Production Plunge  Honda’s June global output plunged 45 percent to 168,373
units, the company said last week, compared with a 9.2 percent
drop at Toyota Motor Corp., Japan’s largest carmaker, and a 19
percent gain at Nissan. Honda expects global production to
recover to planned levels by the end of the year, it said in
June.  The automaker won’t be able to recover the output lost in
the first quarter over the full year, with global sales dropping
2.2 percent, Ike said today. Its China production isn’t keeping
up with demand, while the automaker is considering a new plan to
supply the North American market, he said.  Carmakers are hiring temporary workers to help fill back
orders as suppliers recover. Toyota is employing as many as
4,000 workers, and Honda is engaging 1,000 as they prepare to
ramp up production in October.  The dollar fell 3.6 percent against the yen last month. The
greenback slid to 76.65 yen today in Tokyo, after gaining last
week to the strongest level since March 17.  Gains in the Japanese currency reduce the repatriated value
of the company’s overseas earnings. Each 1 yen gain against the
dollar reduces profit by 15 billion yen, Ike said in June.  Toyota reports first-quarter earnings tomorrow at 3 p.m. in
Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  