-- 
Hospitals to See $1.13 Billion U.S. Medicare Pay Raise in 2012

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-08-01T22:01:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/hospitals-to-see-1-13-billion-u-s-medicare-pay-raise-in-2012.html
Hospital chains such as HCA Holdings
Inc. will see Medicare payments for inpatient care boosted by
$1.13 billion in fiscal 2012, the U.S. said.  The 1.1 percent fee increase from the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services supplants a proposed 0.55 percent cut the
agency proposed in April that would have reduced spending on
hospital services by $498 million. The  final rule  will be
published Aug. 18 in the Federal Register.  Medicare, the U.S. health program for the elderly and
disabled, reversed the payment policy because of new data on
hospital costs and productivity and in response to complaints
from the industry, said  Jonathan Blum , a deputy administrator at
the agency. The payments go to more than 3,400 U.S. hospitals.  Medicare “has developed its update policy in response to
many comments expressing concerns about our original proposal,”
Blum said in a  statement . “We believe that our final policy
strikes the appropriate balance between providing a fair update
to hospitals and ensuring careful stewardship of the Medicare
Trust Fund.”  The agency’s decision is separate from a congressional vote
on a U.S. deficit and debt ceiling package that may trigger
automatic cuts in Medicare payments to providers including
hospitals starting in 2013. The reductions would kick in if
Congress fails to produce budget savings of at least $1.2
trillion.  Medicare  disclosed  the payment rule on its website after
trading closed. The  American Hospital Association , a trade group
that represents Nashville, Tennessee-base HCA and other chains,
had criticized the April proposal, saying cuts may limit care
for senior citizens.  ‘Welcome News’  “Today’s rule is welcome news for patients who depend on
hospital care,” Rich Umbdenstock, president and chief executive
officer of the Chicago-based American Hospital Association, said
in an e-mail. “We are pleased CMS heeded hospitals’
recommendations and recognized the important work that hospitals
are doing in their communities to care for patients.”  Ed Fishbough, a spokesman for HCA, the largest U.S.
hospital chain, declined to comment on the Medicare fees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Young in  Washington  at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 