-- 
Sony Costing Shareholders 70% Gain by Clinging to TV: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a ,   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-08-01T19:32:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/howard-stringer-costs-sony-shareholders-70-gain-clinging-to-tv-real-m-a.html
Howard Stringer , who has overseen a
50 percent decline in  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s value, may cost shareholders
a 70 percent gain by clinging to its television business.  Japan ’s largest exporter of electronics slashed its profit
forecast after saying last week its TV division will lose money
for an eighth straight year. Once worth more than $100 billion,
Sony has lost half its market capitalization since Stringer
became its first non-Japanese chief executive officer in 2005.
The Tokyo-based company is now valued at $25 billion, less than
a quarter the size of South Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co.  While analysts say Sony may climb 36 percent as sales of
its PlayStation game consoles and Cyber-shot digital cameras
bolster profit this year, stripping out losses at the TV
business from the rest of the company would boost its equity to
$43 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. By selling
the TV division, Sony would exit a business that is forecast to
lose almost a billion dollars this year as consumers unwilling
to pay for its  Bravia  flat-screen TVs turn to cheaper brands.  “It’s been one of the losers,”  Keith Wirtz , Cincinnati-
based chief investment officer at Fifth Third Asset Management,
which oversees $18 billion and owns 40,000 Sony shares through
its international equity fund, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s hard for me to point to anything material that would
suggest a turnaround or improvement.”  By selling the business, “they could redeploy the proceeds
to more productive use. That’s the debate I suspect is going on
at the senior management and board level,” he said.  Shareholder Value  “The TV business is one of the most important businesses
for us and we have never considered to walk out of such
business,” said Shiro Kambe, Sony’s chief spokesman in Tokyo,
echoing comments that Chief Financial Officer Masaru Kato made
to analysts last week. Stringer wasn’t available to comment on
the story, Kambe said.  Stringer, a Welsh-born U.S. citizen, became Sony’s CEO in
June 2005, taking over the company that invented the Trinitron
cathode-ray tube TV in the 1960s and began selling the Walkman
portable music player a decade later.  During the past six years, Sony has lost market share to
Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  of Cupertino,
 California , as it struggled to win customers by betting demand
for online content and 3-D technology would revive TV sales.  Samsung, Apple  Sony has reported net losses in the past three years as
companies such as Irvine, California-based  Vizio Inc.  began
making cheaper flat-screen TVs that U.S. consumers favored over
Sony’s more expensive models, said  Tim Bajarin , president of
consulting firm Creative Strategies in Campbell, California.  The company lagged behind Samsung and Seoul-based  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  in the global TV market last year, with 12
percent of sales, according to DisplaySearch. In the U.S.,
Samsung and Vizio, founded in 2002, had the biggest share for
flat-panel televisions, based on research from IHS iSuppli.  “Flat-panel TVs now are fundamentally a commodity
product,” Bajarin said in a telephone interview. “The Vizios
of the world came in and cut prices so dramatically to where it
made it hard to compete.”  A strengthening yen versus the dollar and euro is also
exacerbating Sony’s losses by making its exports less
competitive overseas and reducing the yen value of foreign-
currency denominated sales.  Generation Gap  Mired in its worst earnings slump since becoming a publicly
traded company in 1958, Sony is now valued at 1.96 trillion yen
($25 billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
about half what it was worth when Stringer took over.  At the same time, Samsung has grown almost 75 percent to
$118 billion, and is now the world’s largest maker of
televisions and flat-screen panels.  Apple, which introduced the iPod, iPhone and iPad over the
past decade, surged more than 10-fold to become the world’s
second-largest company with a market value of $362 billion.  “My generation was willing to pay a premium for that
brand,”  Jack Ablin , 50, chief investment officer for Chicago-
based Harris Private Bank, which oversees $60 billion, said in a
telephone interview, of Sony. “They were innovators. They had
quality, and they had consumers. But the rest of the world has
caught up to them. I’m not sure what their edge is anymore.”  While Stringer, 69, has championed the use of Sony’s
televisions to connect other products such as its  laptop
computers  and game consoles to each other and the Internet to
increase profitability, the company was forced last week to cut
its full-year net income forecast by 25 percent because of
weakening TV demand in the U.S. and  Europe .  Half-Trillion Yen  Sony, which began offering Internet-enabled TVs in the U.S.
in October that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s software and also introduced
3-D Bravia models last year, said it now expects the loss from
its television business to be as large as the 75 billion yen
deficit it reported in the fiscal year ended March.  That would push losses at Sony’s TV division past a half-
trillion yen since 2004, or more than $5 billion based on
historical exchange rates, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Consumer electronics makers like Sony tend to have a
strong persistence to keep making televisions,” Kazuharu Miura,
an analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo, said in a
telephone interview.  While “they believe their brands may be weakened if they
stop making TVs,” Miura said, “it’s no longer foreseeable Sony
can start making money from the TV business under the current
business structure.”  Sum of Parts  After the announcement, Sony’s shares fell to 1,947 yen,
approaching its lowest level in more than two years. Today, the
stock rose 0.7 percent to 1,960 yen.  While Sony still can’t make any money selling TVs, analysts
expect that sales at its digital imaging and games divisions
will help the company earn 219 billion yen in operating profit
this year. At Sony’s projected market value of 2.65 trillion
yen, based on analysts’ average 12-month price estimate of 2,639
yen, the company is valued at about 12.1 times the operating
income forecast, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Without the losses in TV, Sony’s own projection indicates
the company would have made 275 billion yen in operating profit
this fiscal year. Using the same earnings multiple, Sony would
then be worth 3.33 trillion yen or 3,310 yen a share. That’s a
70 percent increase from last week’s closing price.  A sum-of-the-parts analysis by  Yoshiharu Izumi , a Tokyo-
based analyst at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , shows that Sony is worth
3,000 yen based on next fiscal year’s earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, which includes a discount
because of the “persistent losses” at the TV business.  ‘Need to be Brave’  The company’s value would be more than 3,300 yen a share
without the discount, based on Izumi’s estimates.  One of the biggest obstacles to selling the TV business is
that its sales are used to pay for expenses such as research and
development at Sony’s other divisions, according to Nikko SMBC’s
Miura. Losing that revenue would mean earnings at the businesses
that are being subsidized may suffer without cost cuts, he said.  The TV unit had 1.2 trillion yen in sales last year, making
it the biggest source of Sony’s revenue, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The company will spend 460 billion yen on
research and development this year, according to an estimate by
JPMorgan, or almost 40 percent of the TV division’s sales.  Net income at Sony will total 86 billion yen this year,
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Sales from TV are supporting the company’s overall
expenses,” said Nikko SMBC’s Miura. “When that revenue is
gone, the company will have to do more drastic cost cutting. You
really need to be brave to do that.”  Turnaround Plan  Stringer has already eliminated 30,000 jobs, sold factories
and moved production overseas in an effort to revive earnings.  Last March, Sony agreed to sell 90 percent of a TV factory
in Nitra, Slovakia, to Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., after
disposing of 90 percent of its largest North American TV-making
site to Taipei-based Hon Hai. Sony also agreed to sell a TV
facility in  Barcelona  in September.  With Barclays Plc still projecting losses at the TV unit
for two more years, Takashi Aoki, who helps oversee about $2.2
billion at Mizuho Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo , said there’s
little else Sony can do to turn around the business.  Aoki said the TV unit may generate interest from Chinese
electronics makers, which have lower production costs and would
be attracted to the Sony and Bravia brands. He declined to
identify any potential buyers.  “Sony established their premium brand with the high-
quality TVs that they produced, but unfortunately that’s become
a generic business,” said Harris Private Bank’s Ablin. “From a
pure financial basis, it doesn’t make sense for Sony.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  New York  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at   myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 