-- 
Rapper Diddy, Dan Ackroyd’s Skull Help Hawk ‘Tasteless’ Vodkas

-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 
2011-08-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/p-diddy-dan-ackroyd-s-skull-help-hawk-tasteless-vodkas-john-mariani.html
How is it that a spirit defined by
the U.S. Standards of Identity as “without distinctive
character, aroma, taste or color” became one of the world’s
largest sellers? Even when a Russian emigre bought the rights to
make Smirnoff vodka in the U.S. in the 1930s, it was advertised
as “White Whisky -- No taste. No smell.” Which meant no
telltale booze breath.  In 1987, when  Poland  was still a Soviet state, I visited
the Wyborowa distillery outside Warsaw, where I was challenged
to taste the difference between vodka made from potatoes and
that made from rye, the latter the basis of Wyborowa’s
distillate and its big selling point.  After sniffing and sipping and finding virtually no
difference, I simply guessed which was which.  Vodka may be distilled from any starch/sugar-rich plant
matter, including sorghum, sugar beets, corn, rye, wheat, or
even grapes, though this last is controversial among European
Union nations for being too far from the original idea.  The result of distillation is almost pure alcohol, which is
then cut with water to achieve the standard 40 percent level in
the bottle (although some devastating rarities can hit 95
percent). Rarely is vodka aged.  The fact is, vodka has traditionally been sold by ad
campaigns, not flavor. Like Sweden’s Absolut ads, which fits the
brand’s distinctive bottle shape into a theme: Absolut Psycho,
for example, has a shower curtain torn into the shape of the
bottle.  Ad Campaigns  Stolichnaya makes much of its Russian heritage, while a
recent TV ad for Holland’s  Ketel One  refers to a time “when men
were men” and “didn’t drink their vodka from delicately
painted perfume bottles.”  Other brands say their vodkas are all the more pure for
being made with million-year-old water poured through diamonds
and quintuple distilled.  Still, it’s hard to increase sales of a neutral, tasteless,
odorless spirit on ads alone, which is why the industry has come
up with so many flavored versions, like Kubanskaya with dried
lemon and orange peels;  Ciroc , with coconut and red berry;
Pertsovka, with black pepper and chilies; and Okhotnichya, with
ginger, cloves, lemon peel, coffee, anise, sugar and white port.  Vodka is also the basis for the Bloody Mary, created at
Harry’s New York Bar in Paris during Prohibition; for  James
Bond ’s enormously influential 1950s vodka martini; the
screwdriver and the cosmopolitan made famous by the women of
“Sex & the City;” and, thanks to the 1998 movie “The Big
Lebowksi,” the white Russian.  Blind Taste  Given how vodka adds little or no flavor to cocktails made
with orange juice or Kahlua, it’s baffling to me when vodka
aficionados order an expensive brand for such concoctions.  So I decided to do a blind tasting of a dozen unflavored
vodkas, most fairly new in the market, some old timers, to see
what differences I could detect. They were not, shall we say,
pronounced. I doubt many people who swear by their favorite
brand could ever pick it out in such an array. All the vodkas
were 40 percent alcohol and were tasted neat.  One that no one will mistake is the new  Vampyre  from
 England  ($22), which is “naturally colored” a viscous blood
red and whose ad says it was specially created to attract those
creatures of the night. Whatever. It’s pretty bland with little
aroma but velvety on the tongue. And fun to drink.  The potato-based  Luksusowa  ($14-$18) has a strong nose with
real citrus in it and a light burn on the tongue. A nice entry
level example from Poland.  Medea Hype  The popular but expensive  Chopin  ($26-$30), also a potato-
based Polish vodka, smells like little more than alcohol and has
a faintly sweet flavor with a mild burn. Not at all distinctive.  Medea , which runs $40 and up, is from Holland, with a
fairly bland nose and a sharp burn to the sinuses. Not worth the
money.  Sweden’s  Svedka  ($14-$17) has built a following among young
drinkers, maybe because it’s very smooth, but it’s almost flabby
too, with an unpleasant aroma.  Turning to U.S.-made vodkas -- and there’s a slew of them
out there -- I wasn’t surprised that good old Smirnoff ($14)
pleased me with its bountiful flavor, though the aroma was
slightly diesel-like. It’s a solid, good example with light
burn.  Smooth Ambler Whitewater  ($30) is an “artisanal” grain
vodka made in  West Virginia  that I could have sworn was apple-
based calvados, from aroma to finish. It has some real taste to
it and would probably stand out in a crowd of vodkas.  Not Bourbon  Star  ($30), made in “Oregon’s scenic Cascade Mountains,”
is a small batch vodka made from “handpicked” corn, though I’d
never mistake it for aged bourbon. It’s filtered five times
(most premium vodkas go through thrice), which seems to smooth
it out but may rob it of its nose.  Bottles of  Moon Mountain  ($20) from Indiana are numbered
and signed by master distiller Gerry Webb, who gives the product
a lush, fruity aroma and spice, all solidly knit together.  Tito’s  ($22) from  Texas  has a very light nose, shows tangy
on the palate, but then finishes hot as hell on the back of the
throat. You’ll know it’s from Texas.  Crystal Head  takes its name from the eerie skull-shaped
bottle it comes in, together with two little skull jiggers. It’s
based on the legend of the magical 13 crystal skulls (in the
title of the last  Indiana  Jones movie), and the founder of the
company is actor Dan Ackroyd. It has a pleasantly grassy
bouquet, is very smooth, aromatic and not at all hot. And it
comes from Newfoundland. The oddity has developed something of a
cult following that will pay up to $50 a bottle.  Lastly, there’s  Ciroc  ($29-$32), made from French grapes,
like brandy; in fact, one of the grapes used, ugni blanc, is
also used to make cognac. It has a very citrusy nose and pretty
tropical notes and a tangy, mild burn. I could swear there is a
light flavoring in it, but it’s probably just the natural grape
flavors. Sales have been very good, especially since rap artist
Sean “Diddy” Combs became a spokesman in 2007.  As I said, the key to selling a tasteless, odorless,
colorless spirit is a good ad campaign.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and
lifestyle section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 