-- 
Palm Oil Climbs as U.S. Lawmakers Agree on Debt Rise

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-08-01T05:57:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/palm-oil-climbs-as-u-s-lawmakers-agree-on-debt-rise-correct-.html
Palm oil gained for the first time in
three days, joining a rally in commodities and stocks, after
President  Barack Obama  said Congressional leaders reached an
agreement to raise U.S. debt ceiling, avoiding a default.  The October contract advanced as much as 0.8 percent to
3,120 ringgit ($1,060) per metric ton on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange and ended the morning trading session at
3,113 ringgit. Futures lost 1.4 percent last week.  Leaders of the Republican and Democrat parties have reached
an agreement that will reduce the U.S. deficit and avoid a
default, Obama said in remarks at the White House. Congressional
leaders reached a bipartisan agreement to raise the debt ceiling
by at least $2.1 trillion, sufficient to serve the nation’s
needs into 2013.  “This provides some bullish sentiments not only to the
 palm oil  market, but to the wide range of commodity markets as
well,” Ker Chung Yang, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte., said
by phone from  Singapore .  Crude for September delivery advanced by the most in more
than a week in  New York  today, gaining as much as 1.7 percent to
$97.29 a barrel, while wheat and copper also rallied.  Chinese Manufacturing  Prices were also supported after a Chinese manufacturing
index came in higher than economists estimated in July, Ker
said. The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 50.7 for July
compared with 50.9 in June, the China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said in a statement today. That was more than
every forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 13 economists. The
median estimate was for a reading of 50.2.  China  is the world’s biggest vegetable oil consumer and the
data may ease concerns that Premier Wen Jiabao’s campaign to
tame consumer and property prices will trigger a deeper slowdown
that limits the nation’s contribution to global growth.  “Although it’s lower than the last month, it’s again
proving the fact that the Chinese government has been successful
in cooling down the economy, so speculation of further
tightening will be off at the moment,” said Ker.  Malaysia’s palm oil exports climbed 13 percent to 1.63
million tons in July from 1.44 million tons in June, independent
market surveyor Intertek said July 30.  Soybean oil for December delivery advanced as much as 0.9
percent to 56.92 cents per pound in  Chicago . Soybeans for
delivery in November gained as much as 0.8 percent to $13.6775
per bushel.  Palm oil for May delivery climbed as much as 1.4 percent to
9,184 yuan ($1,424) a ton on the Dalian Commodity Exchange and
soybean oil for delivery in the same month rose as much as 1
percent to 10,304 yuan a ton.  -- With assistance from Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Mike Dorning
in  Washington  and Zheng Lifei in Beijing. Editors: Ovais
Subhani,  Richard Dobson   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  