-- 
Party Leaders Confront Skeptics in Their Ranks on Debt-Agreement Details

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-08-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/party-leaders-confront-skeptics-in-their-ranks-on-debt-deal.html
After months of bitter negotiations,
Democratic and Republican leaders have finally reached an
agreement to raise the nation’s debt ceiling.  Now, they must sell it to their parties -- and quickly --
recognizing there’s plenty members won’t like about the plan.  The political polarization that almost scuttled a deal to
raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion borrowing limit prompted
criticism from both parties yesterday, as congressional leaders
and White House officials raced to complete the details of the
plan. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he anticipated
resistance from rank-and-file members in both parties.  “I know this agreement won’t make every Republican
happy,” Reid said as he announced on the Senate floor that a
deal had been struck. “It certainly won’t make every Democrat
happy either.”  In a conference call with  House Republicans  last night,
House Speaker  John Boehner  said he realized members of his party
would have misgivings about the plan.  Boehner told his colleagues this isn’t the greatest deal in
the world, according to comments provided by Republican aides.
Still, he told them it shows how much Republicans have changed
the terms of the debate in  Washington , the aides said.  As part of the agreement, a bipartisan congressional super-
committee will be charged with crafting a proposal to reduce the
deficit by $1.5 trillion over a decade. If the committee can’t
reach agreement, the deal mandates across-the-board cuts to
programs championed by Democrats and Republican priorities
including defense.  Bipartisan Vote  Still, even some lawmakers who may oppose the final package
said they predicted it would pass just hours before the Aug. 2
deadline for raising the debt ceiling.  “When it comes back to the House it will probably then be
a bipartisan vote,” said Representative Phil Gingrey, a Georgia
Republican. “But I’m not sure that I can vote yes again.”  Congressional leaders began selling the plan to their
membership almost immediately. Lawmakers praised Boehner for his
negotiating skills, according to a Republican aide, though they
doubted that their party would be able to pass the proposal
without Democratic support.  In cutting the deal, President  Barack Obama  may have staved
off a default, though he deepened a rift over budget policy
within his party.  Revenue Omitted  Fiscally liberal groups and lawmakers attacked the deal for
omitting revenue increases, while cutting spending and
threatening even deeper reductions in programs like Medicare.  “This deal does not even attempt to strike a balance
between more cuts for the working people of America and a fairer
contribution from millionaires and corporations,”
Representative Raul Grijalva, an Arizona Democrat who leads the
Progressive Caucus, said in a statement. “I will not be a part
of it.”  Grijalva and members of the  Congressional Black Caucus  will
call on Obama today to invoke the 14th amendment, which declares
that the U.S. will meet all of its debt obligations, in an
attempt to circumvent Congress and sidestep the deal.  Obama’s unwillingness to make the argument that the
wealthiest Americans should pay more in taxes has led Democrats
to approach the deal with “a lot of unease,” said Michigan
Senator  Carl Levin . Still, he said, the president will have
another chance to make the argument when the Bush-era tax cuts
are set to expire in 2012.  Meanwhile, Republicans questioned whether the spending cuts
were deep enough. Senator  Ron Johnson  of Wisconsin said he was
“highly concerned” about the size of the cuts.  “I’m afraid this is not going to fix the problem, and
that’s the one reason I came here,” said Johnson, a first-term
Republican elected with Tea Party support.  Conservative Worries  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, said
he didn’t “see many conservatives getting behind this,” in an
interview with ABC’s “This Week” yesterday.  Members of the congressional Tea Party caucus, including
Republican Senators Rand Paul of  Kentucky  and  Mike Lee  of  Utah ,
have said they would oppose a debt ceiling increase that was not
tied to a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution.  Republicans also objected to the structure of the super-
committee because it could recommend tax increases.  “We are adamantly opposed to committees that are given the
authority to raise taxes on the American people and to bring
about the gutting of our national  defense budget ,” said Michael
Needham, CEO of Heritage Action for America, a fiscally
conservative advocacy group.  To contact the reporters on this story: Lisa Lerer in Washington
at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  