-- 
Peru Inflation Doubles Forecast as July Prices Jump Most in Three Years

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-08-01T18:22:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/peru-inflation-doubles-forecast-as-july-prices-jump-most-in-three-years.html
Peruvian consumer prices rose at the
fastest pace in more than three years in July, double what
analysts were expecting, fueling speculation the central bank is
getting closer to raising borrowing costs.  Inflation accelerated 0.79 percent last month, according to
a statement published today in the Official Gazette. Economists
expected a 0.31 percent increase, according to the median
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Peru ’s economy is expanding faster than expected even after
companies scaled back spending ahead of the June 5 presidential
election. President  Ollanta Humala  announced an investor-
friendly Cabinet, which will probably allow economic activity to
remain “strong” in the second half of 2011, sparking inflation
pressures, said  Carola Sandy , an economist at Credit Suisse AG.  “The slowdown doesn’t seem to be as big as people
thought,” Sandy said in a phone interview from  New York  before
the number was released. “That will translate into faster
inflation and require the central bank to put the brakes on in
the third quarter.”  Policy makers led by bank President Julio Velarde left
Peru’s benchmark lending rate unchanged for a second straight
month July 7, citing slower inflation, a deceleration in some
parts of the economy and concern about global growth.  Gross domestic product rose 7.1 percent in May from the
year before, according to the statistics agency. While the
figure was the lowest in 15 months, it beat the 6.7 percent
median estimate from 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Cabinet Linchpin  Humala retained Velarde as central bank president, and
named as Miguel Castilla as his finance minister, making him the
linchpin of a Cabinet that include five businessmen and seven
officials who served previous governments.  The sol weakened 0.2 percent to 2.7425 per  U.S. dollar  at
2:14 p.m. New York time, from 2.7382 on July 29.  Food prices rose 1.6 percent last month from June, the
fastest since March 2008, while the cost of fuel, electricity
and bus fares also increased, the agency said in an e-mailed
report. Chicken accounted for half the rise in overall consumer
prices.  The annual inflation rate quickened to a 26-month high of
3.35 percent in July, from 2.91 percent in June, the agency
said. The rise in monthly inflation was the biggest since March
2008, when prices rose 1.04 percent.  The central bank targets annual inflation in a range of 1
percent to 3 percent.  The government’s consumer price index is based on a survey
of establishments conducted by the agency in the Lima
metropolitan area. Food and drink account for 38 percent of the
index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  