-- 
Peru Bonds Rise to Five-Month High on U.S. Debt, Economic View

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-08-01T16:55:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/peru-bonds-rise-to-five-month-high-on-u-s-debt-economic-view.html
Peruvian bonds rose to a five-month
high after U.S. lawmakers reached a compromise on a plan to
raise the nation’s debt limit, and as traders bet  Peru ’s new
government will boost economic growth.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 6.16 percent, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose 0.35 centimo to 111.49
centimos per sol, the highest since Feb. 28.  President  Barack Obama  announced yesterday that leaders of
both parties in the U.S. House and Senate had reached a
tentative bipartisan agreement that will avoid a default,
bolstering the appeal of emerging-market assets.  Demand for Peruvian fixed-income assets also rose on bets
the government of President Ollanta Humala, who took office July
28, will defend economic policies fueling growth, said  Diego Donadio , a Latin America strategist at BNP Paribas Brasil in  Sao
Paulo .  “The uncertainty in the medium and long term is declining
after Humala’s actions in terms of nominating his economic team,
and the perception the same macroeconomic policy will be
maintained for the future,” Donadio said. “This is extremely
positive for Peruvian assets, notably the long-dated bonds.
There is plenty of room for a rally.”  Humala won’t seek “excessive” state intervention and will
encourage investment in the  mining industry , Peruvian Finance
Minister Miguel Castilla said today in an interview with Lima-
based Radio Programas.  Companies scaled back spending during the Andean nation’s
presidential election campaign amid concern Humala’s pledges to
increase mining royalties and enlarge state companies may deter
foreign investment.  The sol weakened 0.2 percent to 2.7445 per  U.S. dollar  at
12:32 p.m. New York time, from 2.7382 on July 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  