-- 
Petrobras May Sell Stakes in Brazil Companies to Raise Cash

-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-08-01T19:18:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/petrobras-may-farm-out-blocks-to-raise-cash-sell-company-stakes.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the state-
controlled oil producer, may sell stakes in Brazilian companies
to raise cash for its $224.7 billion investment plan, Chief
Executive Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli said today.  Petrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, is also looking to sell
parts of exploration licenses in  Brazil  and abroad to meet a
target of $13.6 billion in asset sales and cost cuts, Gabrielli
told investors in London, without naming specific assets.  “We have several exploration and development blocks that
we can farm out in Brazil and outside Brazil, most outside
Brazil,” Gabrielli said. “The second type of asset is our
share participation that we have in several companies.”  Petrobras has a 21.69 percent holding in  Braskem SA (BRKM5) , Latin
America’s largest petrochemicals producer, with a market value
of about $8.9 billion. The company also owns stakes in domestic
natural gas distribution companies and  power plants  that could
be sold to raise funds, according to Adriano Pires, head of the
Rio de Janeiro-based Brazilian Center for Infrastructure.  Still, the oil company will probably raise most of the cash
needed from selling exploration assets because petrochemical and
natural gas distribution companies produce lower profits and are
less attractive to buyers, Pires said in a telephone interview.  Petrobras rose 11 centavos, to 23.61 reais at 4:15 p.m. in
Sao Paulo and declined about 14 percent this year, compared with
a 15 percent drop for Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa Index.  Gulf of Mexico   Petrobras’s largest international exploration projects are
in the Gulf of Mexico, Nigeria and Angola, according to the
company, which is also investing in natural gas projects in Peru
and Bolivia.  The company has 20 percent of the Tiber prospect that holds
at least 1 billion barrels of recoverable resources, making it
the largest discovery in the Gulf of Mexico in over a decade,
Fernando Jose Cunha, Petrobras’s executive manager for the
Americas, Africa and Eurasia, said in an interview June 23. BP
Plc operates the field with a 62 percent stake.  “Petrobras management appears to have some specific assets
in mind, otherwise they wouldn’t have given a specific number,”
said  Anisa Redman , an oil analyst at HSBC Holdings PLC. “They
have assets in  South America , Africa,  Europe , and the Gulf of
Mexico that they might consider selling.”  Petrobras expanded exploration outside of Brazil late last
century to supply its Brazilian refineries amid a shortfall in
domestic output. Then, in 2007, the company announced the
largest discovery in the Americas in the last three decades in
the so-called pre-salt region, located in deep water offshore.  The company plans to more than double domestic output by
2020 as it develops these fields, including the 6.5-billion-
barrel Lula deposit, formerly known as Tupi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in  London  at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net   Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  