-- 
Pfizer to Lend Its Bankrupt Quigley Unit Up to $65 Million

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-08-01T21:30:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/pfizer-to-lend-quigley-as-much-as-65-million-to-extend-bankruptcy-case.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  agreed to lend its
Quigley unit as much as $65 million in cash to extend the
subsidiary’s bankruptcy, potentially giving Pfizer further
protection against claims for asbestos-related health issues.  Quigley asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart Bernstein for
permission to borrow the money in court papers filed July 29 in
 Manhattan . The cash would extend Quigley’s $20 million loan
agreement from 2004, when the unit entered bankruptcy, and
finance the case until Feb. 24, 2012, Quigley said.  The additional money and time will free Quigley to work
with Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, and a committee of
creditors “toward confirmation and consummation of a
reorganization plan,” Quigley said.  Lawyers for the U.S. Trustee, an arm of the  Justice
Department , asked in December to end Quigley’s bankruptcy.
Creditors alleging asbestos-related health issues have been
unable to sue New York-based Pfizer during the case, and many of
them have died, the U.S. Trustee said.  Christopher Loder , a Pfizer spokesman, said the company
looks forward to working through a bankruptcy plan with Quigley
and creditors, which the extension of the credit agreement will
allow.  “In 30 years of asbestos litigation, Pfizer has never been
found to be derivatively liable for Quigley’s liabilities,”
Loder said. Quigley’s products were made for decades before
Pfizer acquired it, he said.  Reorganization Hearing  A hearing on a request to dismiss Quigley’s bankruptcy or
approve proposed terms of its reorganization, set for Aug. 4,
was adjourned without being rescheduled, according to court
papers.  Quigley Co., founded in 1916, made three products for the
 steel industry  from the 1940s to the 1970s that contained
asbestos. Pfizer bought Quigley in 1968, and the company stopped
most operations in 1992. Pfizer said it never made or sold any
Quigley products, and some claimants hadn’t released Pfizer from
alleged “derivative liability.”  Bernstein refused to allow Quigley to exit Chapter 11 court
protection in September, saying Pfizer had manipulated the
process to benefit itself. Pfizer and a committee of asbestos
claimants won his approval of an agreement that will support the
new Chapter 11 plan, which still requires court approval.  A committee of creditors known as the “Ad Hoc Committee of
Tort Victims” asked in October 2010 to have Quigley’s
bankruptcy dismissed so it could bring tort claims, which are
otherwise blocked by bankruptcy law.  ‘Asset-Less Dummy’  In court papers, the group called Quigley an “asset-less
dummy entity that was resurrected, handed Pfizer’s money-losing
claims handling unit, and then propped up by Pfizer pursuant to
a non-arm’s-length contract of limited duration -- all in order
to provide Quigley’s extremely well-heeled non-debtor parent
Pfizer with a channeling injunction against present and future
asbestos claims.”  The group said Quigley has depleted insurance assets to
sustain $54 million in operating losses and $34 million in
professional fees.  Quigley’s sixth outline of a plan to reorganize, filed in
April, would have resolved disputes over how much Pfizer should
contribute by having it turn over a 281,581-square-foot building
leased to a brewery to help pay asbestos claims. The terms of
that reorganization also required Pfizer to forgive a secured
claim of $86 million, a $12.6 million bankruptcy loan and
unsecured claims of $33 million. The drugmaker would also
contribute $81 million in insurance proceeds, according to court
papers.  Asbestos Claims  Asbestos claims against Quigley may total $4.45 billion
during the next 42 years, according to testimony cited by
Bernstein in September. In November, Pfizer reported a $701
million third-quarter charge for asbestos litigation related to
Quigley.  The case is In re Quigley Co., 04-15739,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan at
   tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  