-- 
Planned Parenthood Wins Order Temporarily Restoring Funding

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-01T21:50:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/planned-parenthood-wins-order-temporarily-restoring-funding-1-.html
A  Kansas  law that would have the
effect of stripping funding from Planned Parenthood of Kansas
and Mid-Missouri was temporarily blocked by a U.S. judge.  The measure, signed into law in May by Governor  Sam Brownback , a Republican, made the  Overland Park , Kansas-based
organization ineligible for federal money the group said paid
for cancer screenings, breast exams,  birth control  and basic
family planning for the poor and the uninsured.  U.S. District Judge J. Thomas Marten in Kansas City,
Kansas, today granted Planned Parenthood’s request for an order
blocking the law, which took effect on July 1.  “The court finds that the public interest supports
injunctive relief,” Marten said in a 36-page ruling. That
interest, he said, is advanced by the use of the funding
consistent with the intent of Congress and “free from punitive,
viewpoint-based or associational discrimination.”  Planned Parenthood  in June sued Brownback and the state’s
secretary of the Department of Health and Environment, Robert
Moser, claiming it was being punished for its support of
abortion rights, according to Marten’s ruling.  Claiming federal constitutional violations, the group
alleged the new regulation -- which prioritized the federal
grant money to public entities, hospitals and federally
qualified health centers -- effectively made the group
ineligible for the money.  ‘Directly Aimed’  “It was directly aimed at Planned Parenthood,” the
group’s chief executive officer, Peter Brownlie, said today in a
telephone interview.  The federal money didn’t pay for abortion services, which
are privately funded, Brownlie said, adding that it didn’t
provide those services at its Wichita and Hays, Kansas,
locations that had been getting the federal grant money.  “We assume the state will honor the court’s order and
resume funding,” he said.  Kansas Attorney General Derek Schmidt said in an e-mailed
statement that the state will appeal the decision.  The case is Planned Parenthood of Kansas and Mid-Missouri
v. Brownback, 11cv2357, U.S. District Court, District of Kansas
( Kansas City ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  