-- 
Polish Manufacturing Growth Unexpectedly Quickens in July, PMI Index Shows

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-08-01T09:50:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/polish-manufacturing-growth-unexpectedly-quickens-in-july-pmi-index-shows.html
Poland ’s manufacturing growth
unexpectedly accelerated in July for the first time in four
months as output and new orders picked up, easing concern the
European Union’s largest eastern economy is losing momentum.  The purchasing managers’ index rose to 52.9 from 51.2 in
June, London-based Markit Economics said today, based on a
survey for HSBC Holdings Plc. The median estimate of 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 50.6. A reading above 50
indicates growth.  “Recent weakness in many countries’ PMI results raised
questions about a more prolonged soft patch in the global
recovery,” Murat Ulgen, HSBC’s chief economist for central and
eastern  Europe , said in a statement. “Strength in the forward-
looking indexes such as employment and new orders are reason for
optimism in the case of Poland.”  Previous indicators suggested the Polish economy is slowing
after hovered near the fastest growth pace since 2008 in the six
months through March. Second-quarter gross domestic product was
probably “slightly weaker” than the previous period, when it
expanded 4.4 percent from a year earlier, Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski said July 26.  The zloty traded at 3.983 per euro at 11:49 a.m. in Warsaw,
up from 4.001 late Friday.  Rate Impact  Stronger-than-expected PMI data may support arguments by
central banker Anna Zielinska-Glebocka, who said July 21 that
the Monetary Policy Council should raise  interest rates  once or
twice in the next 12 months because borrowing costs are
“inadequate for the present economic situation.”  Policy makers paused a cycle of monetary policy tightening
in June, saying four increases this year may be enough to tame
inflation that has stayed above the central bank’s 2.5 percent
target since October last year.  Output has expanded every month for the past two years, and
the latest rate was the fastest since April. Manufacturers also
recorded a second successive monthly decline in backlogs for the
first back-to-back decline in a year, Markit said in the
statement.  While new orders have risen 21 times in the past 22 months,
the July expansion was slightly weaker than the trend over this
period and the volume of new export orders fell for the second
month running, according to the survey.  “We don’t assume that the July PMI index rise means a new
wave of optimism, it rather means seeking a new level at which
sentiment could stabilize in the second part of the year,”
 Mateusz Szczurek , chief economist at ING Bank Slaski said in an
e-mailed comment.  The July PMI indicates also July industrial production
growth rebounded to between 5-12 percent from a 2 percent
increase in June, with the final figure “closer to the lower
end of the forecasted range,” Szczurek said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net 
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  