-- 
Pound Slumps Against Major Peers After PMI Boosts Stimulus Bets

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-08-01T14:20:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/pound-slumps-against-major-peers-after-pmi-boosts-stimulus-bets.html
The pound slumped, tumbling to a
record against the Swiss franc, after reports showed U.K.
manufacturing unexpectedly shrank the most in more than two
years last month and business confidence fell.  Sterling weakened versus all 16 major peers tracked by
Bloomberg, snapping a two-day gain against the dollar. A gauge
of factory output fell to 49.1, the lowest level since June
2009, from 51.4 the previous month, according to a report by
 Markit Economics  and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply . That was below the 51 forecast by the median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey and lower than the 50 reading that indicates
expansion. Gilts jumped after U.S. manufacturing dropped.  “The manufacturing PMI data was a really unpleasant
surprise and suggests that the economic weakness in the U.K. is
here to stay,” said  Valentin Marinov , a London-based strategist
at Citigroup Inc. “The release could maintain market
speculation that the  Bank of England  may add further stimulus in
the future and that’s weighing on sterling across the board.”  The pound fell 0.6 percent to $1.6328 as of 2:55 p.m. in
 London . Sterling depreciated 0.2 percent to 87.82 pence per euro
and declined as much as 1.6 percent to 1.2703 Swiss francs, the
least on record.  The Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets Business Barometer survey
showed a net positive balance of 19 percent of companies that
were more optimistic about the economy, down from June’s 36
percent. The survey was conducted with 301 companies with sales
above 1 million pounds ($1.6 million) in the July 4-13 period.  BOE Decision  The  Confederation of British Industry  cut its growth
forecast for the U.K. economy after gross domestic product
barely grew in the second quarter. The U.K. will grow 1.3
percent this year, compared with a previous estimate of 1.7
percent, the country’s biggest employers’ group said in a
quarterly forecast released in London today.  With the economic recovery failing to gain momentum, the
Bank of England will probably leave its benchmark  interest rate 
at a record low of 0.5 percent this week, according to all 55
economists in a Bloomberg poll. Policy makers will probably hold
their bond-purchase program at 200 billion pounds ($326 billion)
this week, according to a separate survey.  U.K. government bonds rose, with the yield on the 10-year
gilt falling three basis points to 2.83 percent and the two-year
yield declining two basis points to 0.62 percent.  Manufacturing Weakness  Manufacturing indexes from  Asia  to  Europe  fell last month
as demand weakened and the global recovery from recession lost
momentum. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index
fell to 50.9 in July from 55.3 the prior month, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. Economists projected the gauge
would drop to 54.5, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Gilts beat their German and U.S. counterparts this year,
handing investors a 5.4 percent return, compared with a 3
percent gain from German debt and a 4.3 percent return from
Treasuries, according to the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  