-- 
Pro-Romney PAC Raises More Money Than Obama-Friendly Group

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-08-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/pro-romney-pac-raises-more-money-than-obama-friendly-group.html
President  Barack Obama ’s supporters
are accustomed to trouncing opponents in every race for campaign
cash -- until now.  Republican primary contender Mitt Romney’s supporters have
donated more than twice as much money to an outside committee
dedicated to boosting his campaign than Obama’s backers did for
his outside groups.  According to financial disclosure reports released
yesterday, Restore Our Future, a pro-Romney committee, raised
$12.3 million in the first half of the year, mostly through
large donations of more than $10,000.  Priorities USA Action, an Obama-centric committee, took in
$3.1 million, more than half from Jeffrey Katzenberg, chief
executive officer of Dreamworks Animation, who helped found the
group. When Priorities USA Action’s donations are added to its
companion group, Priorities USA, which doesn’t disclose its
donors, the combined total raised to support Obama’s re-election
is about $5 million, according to a press release from the
group.  Fundraising Head Start  Obama and Romney are the only presidential candidates whose
supporters have created such entities to help their campaigns.
Romney’s backers had a head start in the money race. They began
collecting donations in January, while the pro-Obama groups
didn’t open their doors until April.  Obama’s advocates are planning for a general election clash
with Republican groups formed last year with the help of Karl Rove, the top political adviser to former President  George W. Bush .  Restore Our Future  can use its money to support Romney
during the primary season, giving him an opportunity to preserve
resources in his quest for the Republican nomination and in the
general election, if he is the nominee.  The political action committees are independent groups that
cannot legally coordinate with the candidates and campaign
committees. Even so, both are comprised of former aides who are
familiar with their former employers’ campaign themes and
messages.  Former Aides  Restore Our Future’s treasurer is Charles R. Spies, who was
Romney’s general counsel in the 2008 Republican primary. Its
board of directors includes Carl Forti, who was political
director for Romney’s primary campaign three years ago.  Priorities USA Action is a pro-Obama committee founded in
April by  Bill Burton , a former White House spokesman, and Sean Sweeney, a former senior White House adviser.  The pro-Romney PAC’s advantage over Obama’s supporters
isn’t matched by the candidate.  The president’s campaign, Obama for America, said on July
13 it took in $47 million in the second quarter, mostly through
donations of $250 or less. The  Democratic National Committee 
raised more than $38 million.  Romney’s campaign raised $18.3 million in the same period
and the  Republican National Committee  has raised $37 million
this year. Much of Romney’s support came from the financial
industry, which had been a cornerstone of Obama’s fundraising
success during his 2008 presidential campaign. Wall Street
investors also were big contributors to the pro-Romney
independent group.  Wall Street Donors  Hedge fund manager  John Paulson , who made money during the
financial crisis betting against subprime mortgages, was one of
four $1 million donors to the Restore Our Future PAC. The other
three are corporations: F8 LLC and Eli Publishing Inc., both
listed at the same address in Provo,  Utah ; and W. Spann LLC of
 New York .  Paul Edgerley, a managing director of Bain Capital LLC, the
company Romney founded, and his wife Sandra, each contributed
$500,000 to the Restore Our Future PAC.  J.W. Marriott, chairman and CEO of Marriott International
Inc.; his brother Richard Marriott, chairman of Host Hotels and
Resorts; and Louis Moore Bacon, CEO of Moore Capital Management
LP in New York, each wrote the pro-Romney group a $500,000
check.  The group’s total donations came from fewer than 100
donors, many of whom wrote checks for $100,000 or more. The
smallest contribution was $3,500, more than the legal limit of
$2,500 per election that an individual can donate to a
candidate.  Hollywood Donors  In the Democrats’ report, Katzenberg donated $2 million to
Priorities USA Action. Media executive and philanthropist Fred Eychaner and the  Service Employees International Union  were the
second-largest donors at $500,000.  Lobbyists are also among the organization’s donors. Steve Elmendorf, founder of Elmendorf Ryan and a former adviser to
 Hillary Clinton ’s 2008 Democratic presidential primary campaign,
and David Castagnetti, a partner at Mehlman Vogel Castagnetti
Inc. and an adviser to the 2004 presidential campaign of
Democrat  John Kerry , each donated $5,000.  Priorities USA Action provides the first opportunity for
lobbyists to make donations aimed at helping the president,
although they are indirect. Obama, citing his intention to be
distant from special interests, has banned lobbyist donations to
his campaign and the DNC, the two primary financial engines
behind his re-election committee.  Citizens United  Ruling  Burton says his committees are aimed at countering efforts
by pro-Republican political action committees and non-profit
groups created after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Citizens
United vs.  Federal Election Commission  that corporations and
unions can spend freely to influence the outcomes of political
campaigns.  “We’ve invested in early advertising to highlight
Republican proposals to end Medicare and to counter  Karl Rove ’s
$20 million in deceptive ads,” Burton said in an emailed
statement.  Priorities USA Action has spent $1.3 million so far this
year, according to yesterday’s filings with the Federal Election
Commission.  Rove is adviser to pro-Republican groups,  American
Crossroads  and Crossroads GPS, which launched a $20 million
advertising campaign earlier this month criticizing Obama’s
economic policies. American Crossroads reported raising $3.8
million in the first six months of this year.  Three Democratic Groups  Priorities  is working with three other new, independent
Democratic groups. The groups, some of which disclose their
donors, have raised more than $10 million to help re-elect Obama
and to add to the Democratic ranks in Congress, according to a
July 29 press release. Majority PAC, which will work with Senate
candidates, raised $1.25 million in the first half of 2011.
House Majority PAC took in $985,000 and American Bridge and its
affiliated foundation raised $3.07 million.  Other Hollywood figures also underwrite Democratic groups.
Hollywood producer Steve Bing was the biggest donor to American
Bridge and the Majority Pac. He gave $250,000 to help elect
 Senate Democrats  and $150,000 to American Bridge. Bing is a
longtime friend of former President  Bill Clinton , and founder of
Los Angeles-based Shangri-La Industries, which develops real
estate and makes films.  J.J. Abrams, who produced the television series “Lost,”
gave $50,000 to Priorities USA Action and $37,500 to American
Bridge.  Unions are another major source of money. SEIU gave
$185,000 to the House Majority PAC, in addition to the $300,000
the union gave to American Bridge and the Senate committee.  The Democratic organizations, operating independently of
candidate campaign committees and the  Democratic National
Committee , will copy the tactics used by Rove and his allies
last year when the  Republican Party  won control of the  House of
Representatives  and gained six seats in the Senate. The
Democratic groups plan to meet regularly to share information
and resources and to target their political advertising at races
where it would have greatest effect.  -with Assistance from Kristin Jensen and Jonathan Salant
in  Washington  and John McCormick in  Chicago . Editors:
Jeanne Cummings, Jodi Schneider  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  