-- 
Rand Erases Earlier Gains on Concern About U.S. Debt, South African Growth

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-01T15:42:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/rand-bonds-gain-as-u-s-debt-agreement-spurs-increased-appetite-for-risk.html
The rand declined versus the dollar,
erasing an earlier gain, after a report showed U.S.
manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in two years as
lawmakers prepared to vote on a deficit-cutting accord.  The South African currency weakened as much as 0.6 percent
to 6.7356 per dollar, erasing an earlier advance. It traded at
6.7318 per dollar as of 5:21 p.m. The rand appreciated 0.6
percent to 9.5700 per euro.  The euro slumped as much as 1.4 percent after the  Institute
for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to 50.9 in July, from
55.3 the prior month. Emerging-market stocks pared gains and
commodity prices tumbled. The House and Senate vote today on an
agreement to raise the U.S. debt ceiling and lower the deficit
to avoid a default tomorrow.  “There was a big sell-off in the euro, and that was the
main driver for the rand,”  Brigid Taylor , head of institutional
flow sales at Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone from
Johannesburg. “There is still a lot of uncertainty around the
U.S. debt deal.”  The rand often moves in tandem with the 17-member currency,
which pays for 45 percent of South  Africa ’s exports, with a
statistical correlation of 0.81 over the past month. A value of
1 would mean they moved in lock step.  Earlier, the South African currency pared gains after  South
Africa ’s purchasing managers’ index declined to a two-year low
in July as “prolonged” strikes curbed manufacturing operations
in the continent’s biggest economy, raising concern about the
strength of a recovery in Africa’s biggest economy. A level
below 50 indicates a contraction in factory production, Kagiso
Tiso Holdings said.  PMI ‘Negative’  “This data is negative for the rand,” Nomvuyo Guma, an
analyst at Johannesburg-based Standard Bank Group Ltd., wrote in
a research note. “Given the weight of the manufacturing sector
in the economy, a potential contraction in this sector seriously
dampens domestic growth prospects.”  Bonds surged, driving yield to the lowest in seven months,
on speculation the central bank will leave borrowing costs
unchanged this year to support a recovery in Africa’s biggest
economy.  “The  Reserve Bank  will remain cautious of hiking  interest
rates  at present,” Tradition Analytics researchers led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note.
“This will tend to keep local bonds supported going forward.”  The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 climbed 72 cents to
90.71 rand, reducing the yield 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 8.156 percent, the lowest since Jan. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  