-- 
Repo Rates Surge to Two-Year High Before Lawmakers Vote on Debt-Limit Deal

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-08-01T16:31:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/repo-rates-surge-to-two-year-high-before-vote-on-obama-crafted-budget-deal.html
Rates for borrowing and lending
Treasuries in the repurchase-agreement market rose to a two-year
high as Republicans and Democrats try to push through a deal to
lift the nation’s debt limit and avoid a default.  The average level of overnight Treasury general collateral
repo rates traded through 10 a.m.  New York  time with ICAP Plc,
the world’s largest inter-dealer broker, was 0.32 percent today,
up from 0.21 percent at the same time on July 29 and the highest
since March 2, 2009.  Congressional leaders are working to push through a
compromise sealed with President  Barack Obama  yesterday to raise
the U.S. debt limit by at least $2.1 trillion and slash
 government spending  by $2.4 trillion or more. The House plans
votes today and the Senate may follow suit to consider the
agreement reached during a weekend of negotiations that capped a
months-long struggle between Obama and Republicans over raising
the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  “Repo rates have remained high as the debt deal is not
done yet,” said  Alex Roever , head of short-term fixed-income
strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. “The repo market
was sloppy last week, and this morning the debt deal isn’t
really locked down, so dealers likely don’t want to be long
collateral or try to fund securities later today.”  Federal Funds  The average rate for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.11 percent on July 29, up from as low
as 0.06 percent from July 12 through July 26, the lowest level
this year. That compares with the central bank’s target rate for
overnight loans between banks of zero to 0.25 percent. The rate
opened at 0.15 percent today.  Money market rates held near historic lows for most of this
year as the budget stalemate and the  Federal Reserve ’s debt
purchases have reduced the amount of Treasuries available for
borrowing and lending in the repo market. In February, the
Treasury eliminated $195 billion in Supplementary Financing
Program bills, or SFPs, it sold on behalf of the Fed as it
sought to help avoid exceeding the U.S. debt limit.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  Repo Market  The average rate for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.208 percent on July 29,
according to index data provided on a one-day lag by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. That was up from 0.132 percent
the day before and a low of minus 0.005 percent this year on
July 29.  The DTCC index is a weighted average of all general
collateral repo transactions during a day. The DTCC processes
about $3.6 trillion in repos transactions daily.  “Despite congressional and Senate leaders being on the
brink of pushing through a compromise to raise the debt ceiling,
which would alleviate a significant amount of the uncertainty,
the repo market still remains extremely dislocated,” said
Kenneth Silliman, head of short-term rates trading at TD
Securities Inc. in New York. “Money market investors have
apparently been shifting away from bills and repo, which usually
represent the most liquid money market assets in the world, and
are keeping a significantly large portion of their liquid cash
in  bank deposits .”  Rates on Treasury six-month bills set to mature Aug. 4,
just after the Aug. 2 deadline for when the U.S. would exhaust
its ability to borrow if a debt-agreement isn’t reached, fell
three basis points to 0.20 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The bills are the first government debt securities
to mature after the deadline.  The one-month Treasury bill rate traded at 0.147 percent
today, down from 0.167 percent on July 29. The rate was negative
as recently as July 18 on a closing basis.  Negative bill rates mean investors are willing to pay the
government to hold their money, protecting them from the
potential losses of other investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  