-- 
Rise in Asthma Risk Linked to Exposure to Magnetic Fields During Pregnancy

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-08-01T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/rise-in-asthma-risk-linked-to-exposure-to-magnetic-fields-during-pregnancy.html
Children whose mothers had the
highest daily exposure levels to electromagnetic fields may
have three times the risk of developing asthma, a study says.   The exposure may come from living near  power lines , 
working under flourescent lights or regularly using devices 
such as hair dryers or vacuums, the research found. Children  
whose mothers had a moderate level of exposure had a 74
percent higher risk, compared with a group that had less
access to the devices, according to research reported online 
today in the  Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine .  The study is the first to find a link between exposure to
magnetic fields during pregnancy and risk of asthma in children,
lead study author De-Kun Li said in a telephone interview.
Previous studies have shown that magnetic field exposure can
lead to miscarriages, poor semen quality and immune disorders,
the researchers said. Pregnant women need to try to limit their
exposure to known magnetic field sources and keep their distance
when they are in use, Li said.  “While the replication of the findings is needed, the
message here is exposure to  electromagnetic fields  is not good,
and we need to pay attention to its adverse effect on health,”
Li, a reproductive and perinatal epidemiologist at the Kaiser
Permanente Division of Research in Oakland,  California , said in
a statement.  Asthma is the most common chronic condition in U.S.
children, affecting about 13 percent of those younger than age
of 18, or 9.4 million U.S. children, according to the paper. Its
prevalence has jumped about 74 percent from 1980 to 1996, the
authors wrote.  Magnetic Fields  Researchers studied 801 pregnant women who were part of
Kaiser Permanente Northern California. Each woman wore a small
meter for 24 hours during pregnancy to measure their daily
exposure to low-frequency magnetic fields, including microwaves,
vacuum cleaners, fans, coffee grinders, copy machines and
fluorescent  light bulbs . The meters weren’t able to measure
high-frequency fields generated by wireless computer networks
and cell phones, the authors said.  The researchers then followed the children from these women
for 13 years using electronic medical records to see which ones
developed asthma. Overall, 130 children developed the condition
during the 13 years, the majority were diagnosed by 5 years old,
the study showed.  Li said it’s unclear how exposure to these man-made
magnetic fields during pregnancy can cause asthma in children.
He said the magnetic fields may change the immune system of the
unborn child or they could interfere will cell communication
while the fetus is developing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  