-- 
Rockefeller May ‘More Than Match’ House Cuts in New Proposal

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-08-01T20:38:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/rockefeller-may-more-than-match-house-cuts-in-new-faa-proposal.html
U.S. Senator  Jay Rockefeller  may
offer a bill today to end a standoff over Federal Aviation
Administration funding by proposing to “more than match” cuts
in rural air service the House passed July 20, a spokesman for
the West Virginia Democrat said.  The latest temporary extension of the FAA’s authority
expired at midnight July 22 after the Senate refused to consider
the House bill because Democratic leaders opposed the $16.6
million in cuts. The agency stopped collecting aviation taxes
and furloughed 4,000 employees, excluding air-traffic
controllers, on July 23.  The goal is to take the dispute over small-town flights
“off the table” to focus on a labor provision in the House’s
longer-term FAA reauthorization proposal, Vincent Morris, a
Rockefeller spokesman, said in an e-mail. That provision would
overturn a decision by the  National Mediation Board  making it
easier for workers to unionize.  Rockefeller, chairman of the Senate Commerce, Science and
Transportation Committee, opposes the House language.  Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said today he has
discussed the two sticking points with both sides and “they’re
trying to come up with a compromise.” LaHood spoke to reporters
on a conference call from Washington. He did not comment on what
a compromise would look like.  “Do not go on your vacations until this issue is
settled,” LaHood urged members of Congress on the conference
call. Both chambers are expected to recess for August after
passing legislation to raise the debt ceiling, which may occur
later today.  The FAA has operated under a series of short-term
extensions since its last multiyear funding bill expired Sept.
30, 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in  Washington  at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  