-- 
Romania May Need to Raise Interest Rates Later in Year, IMF’s Frank Says

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-08-01T13:54:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/romania-may-need-to-raise-interest-rates-later-in-year-imf-s-frank-says.html
Romania ’s central bank may have to
raise interest rates this year to counter possible energy-price
increases, said Jeffrey Franks, the International Monetary
Fund’s mission chief for the country.  The central bank should keep a bias toward tightening
monetary policy even as inflation is expected to slow after the
effect of last year’s tax increase wanes, Franks said today in
an interview in Bucharest. It also should refrain from reducing
the amount of foreign currency banks are required to hold
because it “would be unwise at the moment,” he said.  “The early indications that we get from inflation for July
seem to be quite good, so pressure has eased a bit,” Franks
said. “We would still advise the central bank to keep a
tightening bias, to be prepared to go up rather than down, but
the key is to see what happens in July and August.”  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  left its benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged at 6.25 percent for a 13th month June 29 to tame
inflation sparked by a 5 percentage-point increase in the value-
added tax and rising global commodity prices. The central bank
expects inflation to slow to less than 5 percent in September as
a good harvest drives food prices lower.  Romania’s inflation rate unexpectedly fell to 7.9 percent in
June from an almost three-year high of 8.4 percent in the
previous month. The central bank targets an inflation rate of 3
percent, plus or minus one percentage point, for this year and
next and expects the rate to end the year at 5.1 percent. The
IMF forecasts a 5.5 percent rate for the year, Franks said.  ‘Still Advisable’  “We know the inflation rate is going to drop in July and
here food prices from the agricultural harvest should be
helpful,” Franks said. “In the rest of the year there will
perhaps be some increases in administered prices that are
necessary for public enterprises, so we have to weigh this all
in and I think caution is still advisable.”  Investor interest in Romania will probably increase after
Fitch ratings raised the Balkan nation’s sovereign-debt rating
to investment grade last month, Franks said.  Still, Romania must “calibrate” its plans to sell state
assets and set attractive prices to avoid discouraging investors
after it postponed an offering of shares in  OMV Petrom SA (SNP) ,
Romania’s largest oil company, Franks said.  Romania last month failed to sell a 9.8 percent Petrom
stake valued at about 2.07 billion lei ($704 million) as the
euro-region debt crisis made investors wary of bidding for the
shares. The government said July 26 that it will try to revive
the sale in the first half of next year.  Stake Sales  The government must choose the right timing and price for
the stakes it plans to sell in utilities  Transelectrica SA (TEL)  and
Transgaz SA this year because of the market turmoil triggered by
a worsening of the euro-debt crisis, he said.  The government should also strive to meet the timetable for
a planned sale of a majority stake in chemical company Oltchim
SA this year, Franks said. The sale of a majority stake in CEC
Bank, Romania’s last-remaining state-run bank, would be “an
attractive target,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  