-- 
Russia Targets Asia With Cheapest Wheat After Lifting Putin’s Export Ban

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 
2011-08-01T14:33:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/russia-targets-asia-with-cheapest-wheat-after-lifting-putin-s-export-ban.html
Russia , the world’s second-biggest
wheat exporter before halting sales last year, is offering the
largest discount on the grain in at least four years and
targeting buyers in Southeast Asia to regain its share of the
world market after lifting an export ban a month ago.  Russian wheat costs at least $40 a metric ton less than
North American, French or Australian supplies, according to the
Moscow-based Institute for Agricultural Market Studies
researcher, also known as IKAR. That makes shipping to countries
such as  Malaysia  viable after freight rates fell 44 percent in
the past 12 months.  Russia’s grain exports in July probably rose to 2 million
tons, the highest monthly shipments on record, according to IKAR
and Moscow-based agriculture researcher SovEcon. Exports to
long-haul destinations such as  Southeast Asia  and southern
Africa may reach as much as 1 million tons in the 12 months that
end June 30, compared with the previous record of 650,000 tons
in the 2009-2010 season, according to IKAR.  “Russia is offering such a big discount that it allows the
grain to travel these crazy distances,” said Dmitry Rylko,
director of IKAR. “Buying Russian wheat may be cheaper than
Australian.”  Russia, the world’s second-largest wheat exporter behind
the U.S. in the 12 months ended June 30, 2010, fell to eighth in
the following period as exports slumped 79 percent to 3.9
million tons, data from the  International Grains Council  show.  Vietnam, Malaysia  The outlook for Russia’s wheat production in the 12 months
through June next year was raised by 2 million tons to 56
million tons, the IGC said July 28, increasing its June 30
forecast. Russia is expected to ship 13 million tons of the
grain in the 12 months that end June 30, the IGC said.  Aston FFI , a Lausanne, Switzerland-based unit of grain and
oilseed producer and exporter OAO Aston, is in talks to ship
wheat to  Vietnam  and Malaysia, and is “aware” of similar
discussions by other Russian traders, said Peter Biermann,
general manager of grain export operations. Aston also sold
wheat to Kenya and  Mozambique , he said. Aston says it accounts
for 10 percent of Russian cereal exports.  “In former years those markets were served by cheaper
origins, might it be the U.S., might it be  Argentina , might it
be  Australia ,” Biermann said. “This year everything is
different. Clearly it’s the price of Russian wheat which is
unbeatable at the moment, at least.”  The distance between Russia’s southern port of
Novorossiysk, the main grain export hub, and  Ho Chi Minh City  in
Vietnam is 6,900 nautical miles (7,940 miles), according to e-
ships.net website.  Egyptian Purchases  Egypt, the world’s biggest importer, bought 720,000 tons of
Russian grain since the ban was lifted, while Jordan and Tunisia
also made purchases, according to tender results. Egypt had
dropped Russia from its list of approved sources after the
eastern European country imposed its ban, according to the
country’s state wheat buyer.  The northern  Africa  nation agreed to buy 120,000 tons of
Russian milling wheat for $249.47 to $250.40 a ton on July 26.
November-delivery milling wheat traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris
was at the equivalent of $283.27 a ton at 4:10 p.m. local time
today.  “They are aggressive,” said Jack Watts, a senior analyst
at the U.K.’s Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board, an
industry group funded by farmers. In the Egyptian tender “they
were $35 cheaper than the nearest competitor,  France .”  Discount to Narrow  The cost of hiring panamax ships, which typically carry
grains as well as coal and iron ore, has slumped 44 percent in
the past year to $11,995 a day, according to the  Baltic Exchange 
in  London . When transportation costs decline, it makes it
cheaper for traders to move cargoes across longer distances.  The discount will gradually narrow as Russia runs out of
its exportable surplus and long-haul deliveries may wane in
about two months, according to IKAR.  Competitors’ prices are also falling. Milling wheat fell 16
percent in Paris trading in the past two months, partly amid
concern that Russian exports would reduce demand for European
and U.S. cargoes. Prices slid 4.1 percent in  Chicago .  Russia’s  Agriculture Ministry  estimates total grain exports
in the 2011-2012 marketing year will be 20 million tons as the
harvest rebounds to as much as 90 million tons. The crop shrank
to 60.9 million tons last year as the country suffered its worst
drought in at least 50 years, prompting the government to ban
exports to ensure domestic supplies.  Ukrainian Competition  Australia, the third-biggest wheat exporter in the 2010-11
season, will ship 18.5 million tons by the end of the Australian
marketing year, according to the IGC. Deliveries between October
and May totaled 12.6 million tons, according to the Australian
 government .  “There is not a great deal of milling wheat potentially
left on the east coast of Australia,” Paul Deane, an economist
at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said by phone
from  Melbourne .  In Southeast Asia, Russia has competed with Ukraine, which
offers similar quality grain, rather than Australia, said
Alexander Korbut, vice president of Russia’s Grain Union, which
represents the country’s biggest producers and traders.
Deliveries from Ukraine are slumping as traders lose money
because of  customs duties  and delays in getting back value-added
tax, he said.  Ukraine exported 3.39 million tons of wheat to Southeast
Asia in the 2009-2010 marketing year, before shipments slumped
to 647,000 tons in the 12 months ended June 30 as the government
set quotas on overseas shipments, according to Kiev, Ukraine-
based researcher UkrAgroConsult.  More Expensive  Russian grain is gradually becoming more expensive for
importers.  Egypt  paid as much as $255.25 a ton for Russian wheat
at a July 29 tender, up from $243.50 on July 7, when it bought
the grain for the first time after the Russian ban expired.  “We still have a couple of months to sell at extra-long
distances,” IKAR’s Rylko said. “It’s impossible to sell grain
so cheap for a long period of time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  