-- 
Russian Manufacturing Industry Shrinks in July for First Time in 19 Months

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-08-01T07:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/russian-manufacturing-pmi-index-drops-below-50-hsbc-reports.html
Russian manufacturing contracted in
July for the first time since December 2009 as slowing growth in
 China  and the euro area damped demand for the country’s exports.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to a seasonally
adjusted 49.8 from 50.6 in June, HSBC Holdings Plc said in a
report today, citing data compiled by London-based Markit
Economics. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter, is lagging
behind growth in emerging-market peers  Brazil ,  India  and China.
Gross domestic product expanded 3.7 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter, less than the 4.1 percent increase in the
first three months of 2011, according to the Economy Ministry.  “The Russian manufacturing sector appeared to enter the
summer recess in July,”  Alexander Morozov , HSBC’s chief
economist for  Russia  and the Commonwealth of Independent States,
said in the report. The weak reading “clearly demonstrates the
strong dependence of Russian manufacturing growth on the global
economic cycle through Russian exports.”  Europe, China  European services and manufacturing growth weakened more
than economists forecast in July to the slowest pace in almost
two years. China’s manufacturing slowed last month, with the
Purchasing Managers’ Index at 50.7 compared with 50.9 in June,
as production and new export orders grew at a slower pace for
the fourth month.  The European Union, which is seeking to prevent Greece’s
debt crisis from spreading to Italy and Spain, accounted for
48.9 percent of Russia’s trade in the first five months of this
year, figures from Russia’s Federal Customs Service show. China
overtook the Netherlands and  Germany  to become Russia’s largest
partner in 2010.  New orders in Russia’s manufacturing industry shrank in
July for the second time in three months and the pace of
production growth slowed for the fourth month in five, HSBC
said.  Incoming new work fell last month at the fastest rate since
May 2009, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  