-- 
HSBC Cooperating With Document Requests in Libor Probe

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-01T10:49:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/hsbc-cooperating-with-u-s-eu-document-requests-in-libor-probe.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  received requests
for information from regulators and prosecutors in the U.K.,
U.S. and European Union as part of an investigation into whether
the London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor, was manipulated.  HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank, is cooperating with the probe,
the company said in a regulatory filing today. The bank also
said it is the subject of separate investigations involving U.S.
anti-money laundering laws and mortgage foreclosure practices.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Department of Justice
and the U.K. Financial Services Authority are investigating
submissions made by banks regarding Libor rates and whether
there were attempts to manipulate them. Libor is the rate of
interest at which banks borrow funds from other banks in the
London market.  “These ongoing matters are at an early stage,” HSBC said.
“Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at
this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these regulatory
investigations or putative class actions lawsuits, including the
timing and potential impact, if any, on HSBC.”  The bank also received grand jury subpoenas and other
requests for documents from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, the
 Department of Justice  and the New York District Attorney’s
Office over its units’ bank note and dollar clearing services,
compliance with the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act, anti-money laundering
controls and the Office of Foreign Asset Control requirements.  ‘Formal Enforcement Action’  “It is likely that there could be some form of formal
enforcement action in respect of some or all of the ongoing
investigations,” HSBC said.  Units of the bank in the U.S. are cooperating with the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal
Reserve Board in a review of residential mortgage foreclosure
practices and whether customers were financially injured because
of an error in the process. In that case, the Federal Reserve
Board said fines are appropriate, and HSBC expects to be
approached regarding a settlement with the  U.S. Department of
Justice  or state attorneys general, the bank said.  HSBC Bank USA  has also received subpoenas from the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the  Justice Department 
for documents relating to its involvement in specified private-
label residential mortgage-backed securities transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  