-- 
HSBC Sees Talent ‘War’ Driving Up Asia Wages Even as 30,000 Jobs Are Cut

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-08-02T07:14:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/hsbc-to-cut-25-000-more-jobs-by-2013.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , which plans to
eliminate 30,000 jobs globally by the end of 2013 to curtail
surging salary costs, said a “war for talent” in Asia will
drive up compensation for bankers in region.  “The turnover in Asia-Pacific for every bank, for the
industry, is quite high,”  Peter Wong , chief executive officer
for London-based HSBC’s operations in the region, said in an
interview today. Rising salary levels, bolstered by an average
18 percent attrition level, “will always be an issue,” he said.  HSBC Chief Executive Officer Stuart Gulliver yesterday said
he plans to trim 10 percent of staff at  Europe ’s largest bank
after a bigger workforce and wage inflation helped drive up
costs, while hiring 3,000 to 4,000 people a year in emerging
markets. Rivals Credit Suisse Group AG, UBS AG, Bank of America
Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are also trimming payrolls.  “For international banks, the story should be cutting
staff in the west while adding people here in  Asia ,”  Dominic Chan , a Hong Kong-based analyst at BNP Paribas SA who rates HSBC
a “buy,” said by telephone this week. “If HSBC is to improve
its cost-to-income ratio, it must make some efforts in Europe.”  European banks have slashed 230,000 jobs since the start of
the financial crisis in 2007, according to Bloomberg Industries.  Climbing Expenses  HSBC gained 1.8 percent to HK$78.35 as of 2:46 p.m. in  Hong
Kong  trading, making it the best performer on the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index  today. It climbed 2.2 percent to 607.5 pence in
 London  trading yesterday.  Expenses in Asia, home to the two fastest-growing major
economies, accounted for 45.2 percent of income in the first
half of the year, HSBC’s regional unit said in a statement
yesterday. Costs for the parent company climbed to 57.5 percent
of revenue from 50.9 percent a year earlier. That’s more than
the 48 percent to 52 percent target range set by HSBC.  The bank’s cost-income ratio is “middle-of-the-road, but
it’s a large global bank that should be able to benefit from
scale economies,” said Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at
Shore Capital in Liverpool.   Profit at HSBC, the first British bank to report earnings
for the first half, rose 36 percent to $9.22 billion from $6.76
billion a year earlier, according to a statement yesterday. That
beat the $7.82 billion median estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Unnecessary Bureaucracy’   HSBC aims to reduce expenses by as much as $3.5 billion
over the next two years as it tackles wage inflation in faster-
growing economies and prepares for stricter capital rules.  The job cuts will affect “support staff where we believe
we have created an unnecessary bureaucracy in this firm over a
number of years,” Gulliver said.  HSBC has already started cutting 5,000 jobs, he said. The
30,000 jobs to be eliminated exclude employees leaving when
assets are sold, he said. The target doesn’t take into account
cuts that could follow the U.K. Independent Commission on
Banking’s report in September, Gulliver said. The panel may
force lenders to separate consumer and investment banking units.  “The market is likely to interpret the job cuts in a
positive way,” said  Neil Smith , a banking analyst at WestLB AG
in London. “HSBC needs to keep their costs under control.”  The proportion of profit HSBC gets from its Asian, Latin
American and Middle Eastern businesses rose to 76 percent in the
first half, from 64 percent in the same period last year, the
bank said.  “We remain positive on the outlook for emerging markets,”
the company said. “We expect a soft landing in  China  and we
believe Hong Kong is well-equipped to mitigate overheating
pressures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  