-- 
SEC Suit Against Gabelli Reinstated by U.S. Appeals Court

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-08-02T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/sec-s-complaint-against-marc-gabelli-reinstated-by-u-s-appeals-court.html
Marc J. Gabelli, a former portfolio
manager of Gabelli Global Growth Fund, must face a lawsuit
brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, a
federal appeals court said, reversing a lower-court ruling.  The SEC alleged in a 2008 complaint that Gabelli, a son of
founder  Mario Gabelli , had authorized the fund to be market
timed by Folkes Asset Management, now known as Headstart
Advisers Ltd., and that Gabelli Funds LLC Chief Operating
Officer Bruce Alpert had allowed it to continue.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New York  today reversed a
decision by U.S. District Judge Deborah A. Batts dismissing the
complaint on the grounds that the SEC waited too long to seek
civil fines. Batts last year also threw out securities fraud
claims against Alpert. The appeals court ruled the claim for
civil penalties isn’t subject to time limitations.  “Finding at this stage in the litigation defendants have
not met their burden of demonstrating that a reasonably diligent
plaintiff would have discovered this fraud prior to September
2003, we conclude that the SEC’s prayer for civil penalties
survives defendants’ motions to dismiss and must be
reinstated,” U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, acting as an
appeals judge in the case, said in the ruling.  Market timing is the practice of short-term buying, selling
and exchanging of mutual funds to exploit pricing
inefficiencies. Gabelli Funds LLC agreed to pay $16 million in
April 2008 to settle market-timing claims by the SEC.  Portfolio Manager  Marc Gabelli was a portfolio manager for GGGF and its
predecessor from 1997 to 2004 and stopped working for Gabelli
Funds, a unit of  GAMCO Investors Inc. (GBL) , in 2006, according to the
SEC’s complaint. He has been chairman of  LGL Group Inc. (LGL) , an
Orlando, Florida-based maker of electronic components, since
September 2004, according to the company’s website.  A lawyer representing Marc Gabelli, Lewis J. Liman, didn’t
return a telephone message. SEC spokesman  Kevin Callahan 
declined to comment on the ruling.  “We’re disappointed with the decision,” said Kathleen Massey, a lawyer for Alpert. “We disagree with the court’s
analysis.”  Massey said she is confident Alpert will prevail when the
facts are considered once the case is returned to the trial
court.  The case is SEC v. Marc Gabelli, 08-cv-3868, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 