-- 
Coaches’ Money Manager May Have Taken Blame for Fraud in Note Before Death

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-08-02T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/sec-sues-for-assets-of-dead-money-manager.html
J. David Salinas, an investment
manager suspected of swindling clients including college
basketball coaches out of more than $50 million, may have left a
note before his death in which he claimed sole responsibility
for his actions, a government lawyer said.  The one-page handwritten note, purportedly from Salinas,
was given to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission by
business associates who searched Salinas’s offices about 10 days
before his death on July 17, said Kathleen Galloway, an SEC
attorney, in a statement filed yesterday in federal court in
Houston.  In the undated note, Salinas claimed to be “fully
responsible’’ for all transactions, correspondence and sales
activities of his J. David Group, which the SEC sued yesterday
over allegations it ran a  Ponzi scheme  that sold fake bonds.  “I had total authority,’’ according to the note. The
firm’s employees “performed their duties with unknowing
consequences,’’ Salinas purportedly wrote, according to the
court filing.  Salinas, through his companies Select Asset Management and
J. David Group, defrauded investors of more than $50 million
beginning in 2004, the SEC said in its complaint. The agency
also sued Brian A. Bjork, chief investment officer of Select
Asset.  “Bjork and Salinas promised investors safe, fixed-income
by investing in highly rated corporate and other bonds with
annual yields up to 9 percent,” the SEC said. “In reality, the
J. David Group corporate bond offering was bogus.”  Arizona , Baylor  The investors included college basketball coaches Lute Olson, former coach at the  University of Arizona , and Scott Drew, coach at Baylor University. Salinas was a founder of an
elite high school summer basketball program in Houston and a
donor to college sports programs.  “I’ve invested with David and he’s been a friend for a
while,” Olson said in a July 20 statement after Salinas died.
“But I did not invest money until after I had retired from
coaching.”  ‘I, like many coaches and other individuals, did invest
with Mr. Salinas with the only intent being able to provide
long-term financial security for my family,” Drew said in a
statement.  The SEC asked the court to freeze assets of the estate, the
companies and Bjork “to ensure the eventual return of the
assets to their rightful claimants.” U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison granted that request and set a hearing for Aug. 10.  Judge’s Order  Ellison also ordered the defendants and anyone working with
them not to destroy records related to the transactions or
assets.  “Our enforcement action seeks to put an end to an alleged
scam that took millions of dollars from more than 100
investors,” said  Robert Khuzami , director of the SEC’s
enforcement division.  “Brian has been supplying information and documents to the
SEC but has not himself been interviewed,” Matt Hennessy,
Bjork’s attorney, said in a phone interview. “At this point,
Brian plans to continue to cooperate with the investigation,”
he said.  “David Salinas had established relationships with
different coaches before Brian ever came into the picture,”
Hennessy said. Bjork was introduced to Salinas by a mutual
friend,  Scott Thompson , a former basketball coach at Cornell,
Rice and Wichita State universities, whom Hennessy described as
a “long-time friend of David’s.”  J. Randle Henderson, an attorney for Select Asset
Management, said yesterday he couldn’t immediately comment on
the lawsuit because he just received the complaint.  Gunshot Wound  Salinas, 60, was found dead of a gunshot wound on July 17
at his home in the Houston suburb of Friendswood,  Texas .
Galloway, the SEC attorney, said in court filings that a
Galveston County prosecutor told her July 17 that the death was
“apparently a suicide.”  The SEC claims that investors were sold corporate bonds and
were issued monthly account statements to reflect their
holdings.  “Neither Salinas nor Bjork, through J. David Group, J.
David Financial, Select Asset, or otherwise, had ever actually
acquired the bonds reflected in the account statements,” the
SEC said. “The bond offering was a sham.”  Bjork ‘Shocked’  “David Salinas conducted all the bond transactions for the
J. David Financial Group of companies,” Hennessy, Bjork’s
attorney, said. “Brian’s knowledge of what David did came from
David alone. Brian had no indication that David was deceiving
his investors. Brian was shocked to learn of the degree of
David’s deception.”  Hennessy said Bjork’s position as senior vice president of
J. David Financial Group was an unpaid position, in which he
assisted with the company that sold athletic insurance to
colleges and universities for their sports teams.  The SEC has been investigating the Salinas companies for
several months, according to court papers filed by Galloway.
This included sending requests for documents relating to any
transfers, loans or investments, she said.  The SEC received multiple discs on July 8, 2011, with
documents missing. None of these documents have yet been
provided, she wrote.  Henderson, the Select Asset attorney, notified the SEC that
“Bjork now doubted the existence of the bonds,” because Bjork
and two other employees “searched the J. David office and could
not find any evidence of the bonds’ existence,” Galloway said.
“Further, there were signs that Salinas and J. David were
struggling financially,” she wrote.  Bjork and the other employees found Salinas’s note in an
envelope marked “To Whom It May Concern” during their search
of the offices, according to Galloway’s statement.  The case is SEC v. Bjork, 11-cv-02830, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  