-- 
Shadow Banking, Debt Limit, ‘Big Four’ Probe: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-08-01T12:26:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/shadow-banking-big-four-probe-china-lending-compliance.html
The U.S. ‘shadow banking’ system,
which had double the liabilities of commercial banking at the
end of 2007, is shrinking.  A  Bloomberg chart shows that shadow banks had liabilities
of $15.9 trillion at the end of 2010, a decrease of 22 percent
from 2007, while U.S. commercial banks had liabilities of $12.8
trillion, an increase of 22 percent during the same time period.  The banking and financial crisis that began when credit
markets froze in 2007 was due in part to the rise of the shadow
banking system, which became larger than commercial banking in
1990.  Lending in the U.S. depends on a complex set of
institutions including investment banks, money-market mutual
funds, special investment vehicles, collateralized debt
obligations and government-sponsored enterprises, such as  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac . While the liabilities of the traditional
banks are made up of deposits and inter-bank loans, the
liabilities of the shadow banking system include open-market
commercial paper, repurchase agreements, GSE liabilities and
money-market mutual funds.  Much of the funding in the shadow banking system was short-
term, even though the liabilities were used to fund long-term
loans like mortgages. This made the system unstable. Even now,
the shadow banking system is showing no sign of stabilizing.  Although the Dodd-Frank law calls for regulation of some
areas of the shadow banking system, there is a lingering concern
that the law did not address the root cause of the crisis:
instability in the shadow banking sector, particularly with
securitizations.  Compliance Policy  Debt-Limit Agreement to Get Congress Vote as Soon as Today  Congressional leaders, leaving no extra time before a
default threatened for tomorrow, are racing to push through a
compromise sealed with President Barack Obama last night to
raise the U.S. debt limit by at least $2.1 trillion and slash
 government spending  by $2.4 trillion or more.  The House plans votes today and the Senate may follow suit
to consider the agreement reached during a weekend of
negotiations that capped a months-long struggle between Obama
and Republicans over raising the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  Both parties were working to sell the deal to their rank
and file -- meeting resistance from social liberals who fault it
for failing to increase taxes and from fiscal conservatives who
say it’s insufficient to rein in the debt.  The Treasury Department has said it will breach the
borrowing limit and run out of options for avoiding default
tomorrow without action by Congress to raise the debt ceiling.
Congressional leaders expressed optimism they would avoid that
risk -- however narrowly.  For more of this story, click here.  For commentary, click here.  For remarks by President  Barack Obama , click here.  For more on the debt debate, see EXT6.  Banks Should Cut ‘Footballer Pay’, Say U.K. Fund Managers  European and British investment banks should slash pay and
cut jobs to redress the balance between employees and
shareholders, according to three of the U.K.’s largest
institutional investors.  Banks such as  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Deutsche Bank AG,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
Credit Suisse Group AG, which are among the top 10 investment
banks in Europe by revenue, raised base salaries and hired more
staff following the 2008 credit crisis even as the shares
tumbled and the banks cut or halted dividends. Now, shareholders
have had enough.  Julian Cane, who helps manage 106 billion pounds ($173
billion) at  F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM)  in  London , compared
investment banks and their shareholders to football clubs and
their owners. While football players have fun and make a lot of
money, owners of football clubs “rarely make any money,” he
said. “It’s better to play for the club than to own it.”  Last year, Barclays paid 22 pounds to employees for every 1
pound paid to its owners, while at Deutsche Bank the ratio was
16 to one. UBS hasn’t paid its investors a cash dividend since
2006, while giving 16.9 billion Swiss francs ($21.1 billion) to
its personnel last year.  Barclays handed 11.9 billion pounds over as compensation,
against 531 million pounds in dividends, according to filings.
Deutsche Bank gave staff 12.7 billion euros ($18.1 billion) in
compensation and benefits for 2010, while shareholders got 816.4
million euros in dividends.  Spokesmen for Credit Suisse, UBS and Barclays declined to
comment, while a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank wasn’t
immediately able to comment.  For more, click here.  U.K. Brings Forward Move to Ease Small-Company Financing  Treasury  Minister Mark Hoban said the U.K. will bring
forward the implementation of European rules making it easier
for small companies to raise money in equity markets, the latest
bid to spur growth as the economy stagnates.  The steps from the European Union Prospectus Directive took
effect in Britain yesterday, a year early, Hoban said in a
statement released by his office in London. Small companies will
be able to raise 5 million euros ($7.1 million) without having
to produce a prospectus for investors.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne is looking at
ways to improve conditions for companies so that they can expand
more easily even as he attracts criticism from the opposition
Labour Party for doing nothing to stimulate demand. The economy
expanded 0.2 percent in the three months through June, leaving
gross domestic product barely higher than it was in the third
quarter of last year.  The measures, which double the level above which companies
need to produce a prospectus, will save small and medium-sized
businesses in the U.K. about 12 million pounds ($19.5 million) a
year, the Treasury said. Companies will be able to raise money
from as many as 150 investors, up from 100 under previous rules.  India Shunning ‘Big Bang’ Economic Change Risks Singh’s Legacy  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s push to deepen India’s
welfare system may divert focus from the investment and
regulatory changes needed to sustain an economic transformation
that he unleashed two decades ago.  The government is expanding education and rural jobs plans
whose costs could swell by almost 2 percentage points of gross
domestic product,  International Monetary Fund  estimates show.
Singh also aims to submit a bill in the parliamentary session
starting today securing low-cost food for more than 800 million
people, more than the combined U.S. and euro-area population.  While embracing such populist measures may help shore up
support for a government roiled by corruption charges, it means
proposals to boost investment and overhaul tax and land-use laws
risk languishing, analysts said. By contrast, Singh as finance
minister 20 years ago attacked regulatory burdens that held back
private companies, helping propel a 247 percent surge in GDP.  India is losing about 2.5 percentage points in growth a
year from regulations and approval requirements that deter
investment in roads, ports and power generation, and labor laws
that hinder firing,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  estimates.  For more, click here.  African Wind, Cook Stoves May Benefit From New Carbon Rule  Wind turbines, hydroelectric dams and efficient cooking
stoves in Africa and other regions may attract as much as $1
billion in investment after the United Nations agreed on new
carbon market rules that may grant such projects more emissions
credits, according to  ClimateCare .  The UN Clean Development Mechanism’s Executive Board,
regulator of the world’s second-biggest carbon market by traded
volume, agreed this month on new standards for projects in
places where basic human needs aren’t met. The new rule melds
the CDM’s goal of reducing emissions blamed for global warming
with an aspiration to transfer technologies that poor nations
need to avoid higher-polluting development paths akin to
Europe’s Industrial Revolution.  ClimateCare, based in Oxford, England, is a unit of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. that develops emissions-cutting projects.  The so-called “guidelines on the consideration of
suppressed demand in CDM methodologies” were approved during
the executive board’s meeting in Marrakech, Morocco, that ended
July 15. The guidelines include ways to calculate CO2 emission
reductions in poor areas against a benchmark that represents so-
called minimum service levels for heat, water and light. These
levels represent an acceptable standard of living, which many
communities haven’t yet achieved.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  ‘Big Four’ Accounting Dominance Set for U.K. Regulatory Probe  The “Big Four” accounting firms’ dominance over corporate
audits in Britain should be fully investigated by the U.K.
Competition Commission, the country’s  Office of Fair Trading 
said.  The OFT made the provisional decision July 29 after
concluding the U.K.’s “second-phase” competition regulator has
authority to take action against the industry if it finds
distortions in the market. The probe targets the largest
auditors -- KPMG LLP, Deloitte LLP, Ernst & Young LLP and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  The investigation, which comes as the European Union is
debating the same issue, could force changes to the industry.
Dominance by the four firms, which audit 99 of the 100 largest
U.K. companies, has been under review by the OFT since 2002,
while a U.K. government committee investigating the causes of
the global financial crisis called for a probe.  The OFT has said the size of the Big Four’s market share is
propelled by the cost of switching auditors, the ease of
explaining the choice of accounting firms to investors, the
extensive international networks held by bigger auditors and the
risk associated with auditing larger companies.  China  Regulator Said to Tell Banks Loan Provision Inadequate  China’s banking regulator told lenders they haven’t set
aside sufficient funds to cover losses on loans to local
governments and ordered them to accelerate debt collection, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  The lenders were told last month that they are lagging
behind the China Banking Regulatory Commission’s schedule for
revising the loan agreements on infrastructure projects, the
person said, declining to be named because the information is
confidential. The agency had asked banks to collect two
repayments a year after construction is completed.  The comments reflect persistent concerns that $1.7 trillion
of lending to local governments may spur a wave of bad debts
that could lead to the nation’s third banking bailout in less
than two decades. As much of 30 percent of the credit may sour,
Standard & Poor’s estimates, after a surge in lending that
powered China’s recovery from the global financial crisis.  Efforts to curb risks in the loans have achieved “initial
results, and the overall risk is controllable,” the regulator
said in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg. Going
forward, banks should amend debt agreements, get better
collateral and refine calculations on capital levels based on
risk-weightings assigned to such loans, it said.  For more, click here.  BA Confronts Regulator Over Surcharge Fine, Telegraph Says  British Airways is refusing to pay a 121.5 million-pound
($200 million) fine for allegedly fixing fuel surcharges, the
 Daily Telegraph  reported, citing  Willie Walsh , the chief
executive officer of International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA, of which BA is a part.  Walsh said the fine is being withheld after the collapse
last year of a criminal cartel prosecution brought by the U.K.
Office of Fair Trading, which imposed the penalty in 2007, the
newspaper reported.  BA won’t pay the fine unless the regulator provides fresh
evidence of wrongdoing, the Telegraph cited Walsh as saying.  Interviews/Speeches  Altman Says U.S. Won’t Default If Congress Misses Deadline  Roger Altman , a former U.S. deputy Treasury secretary and
the founder of  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , said he doesn’t expect
the U.S. to default if Congress misses raising the debt ceiling
by an Aug. 2 deadline.  “As long as you’re timely on interest payments and on
principal payments, then you are not in default under any
definition,” Altman said July 29 in an interview with Betty Liu
on Bloomberg Television.  The Treasury Department has set the Aug. 2 deadline for
raising the $14.3 trillion debt limit to avoid default.  Lloyd’s Levene Touts Spitzer-Like Transparency in Fees  Peter Levene, who is stepping down after nine years as
chairman of Lloyd’s of London, said he doesn’t like paying
insurance-broker fees once challenged by former  New York 
Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer .  He made the remarks in an interview July 29 at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York.  Spitzer, who later became New York governor, banned the
payments for larger brokers in 2005, arguing that the fees
create a conflict of interest and lead to improper business
practices. Brokers collect contingent commissions from insurers
based on the amount and profitability of policies they arrange.
Regulators reversed the fee restrictions in 2010.  Levene said that the 323-year-old insurance market, the
world’s oldest, doesn’t like contingent commissions. The fees
create problems when policyholders aren’t told about them, he
said.  The U.K. introduced an anti-bribery law last month, which
makes it illegal for companies to offer bribes in the U.K. or
overseas. Lloyd’s  said  in May contingent commissions “need
clearly to be considered on a case-by-case basis by both the
insurer and the broker” to see if they contravene the new law.  Comings and Goings  Hong Kong’s SFC to Appoint Herbert Smith’s Alder as Chief  Hong Kong’s  Securities and Futures Commission  will appoint
Ashley Alder, the Asia head of law firm  Herbert Smith LLP , as
its new chief executive officer.  Alder, an executive director of corporate finance at the
regulator from 2001 to 2004, will return to lead the SFC in
October, according to a person familiar with the decision who
declined to be identified because it isn’t public.  Andrew Tortoishell, Herbert Smith’s Greater China managing
partner, confirmed the move and said that Alder’s successor will
be finalized “very shortly.”  Patrick Wong , a spokesman for Hong Kong Financial Secretary
and chairman of the selection panel, John Tsang, declined to
confirm Alder’s appointment. Wong said the government would be
making an announcement “quite soon.” The Financial Times
earlier reported the appointment.  Alder, 52, will be responsible for maintaining Hong Kong’s
regulatory reputation as the city attracts more initial public
offerings from overseas, at a time when corporate governance in
Chinese companies is being scrutinized by short sellers and
regulators in the U.S. and Canada.  The position has been vacant since June 8, when Martin
Wheatley left to take over the U.K.’s new Consumer Protection
and Markets Authority.  For more, click here.  Italy’s Tremonti Dismisses Calls To Resign, Wants To Keep Post  Italian Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  dismissed calls
for his resignation amid a probe into his former aide Marco
Milanese, whose arrest is sought by prosecutors in Naples,
saying he didn’t commit any “unlawful act.”  He spoke in an interview with Italian national broadcaster
RAI SpA.  “I would like to keep doing my job,” Tremonti said,
adding that he should have been “more careful” about the use
of a Rome apartment provided by Milanese.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 