-- 
South Korea to Boost 10-Year Bond Sales

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-08-01T00:49:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/south-korea-to-boost-10-year-bond-sales-as-yield-curve-flattens.html
South Korea  is stepping up sales of
bonds maturing in a decade or more and reining in issuance of
shorter tenors after interest-rate rises led to the flattest
yield curve since October 2008.  The yield on South Korea’s 10-year bonds dropped 32 basis
points this year to 4.20 percent as the central bank raised
borrowing costs three times to quell inflation, which exceeded
policy makers’ 4 percent ceiling throughout the first seven
months of 2011. The rate on three-year securities jumped 47
basis points, or 0.47 percentage point, to 3.85 percent. The
nation’s debt handed investors returns in all but one of the
last six months as foreigners boosted their holdings to a record.  “Global funds are coming to the market at a rapid pace as
economic fundamentals are robust and credit risks low,” Park Jae Seek, director general of the treasury bureau with the
Ministry of Strategy and Finance, said in a July 27 interview in
Gwacheon, south of  Seoul . “We will increase the portion of
longer bonds by reducing three- to five-year maturities.”  Longer-dated securities currently account for 41 percent of
issuance and this proportion will climb to meet rising demand
from life insurance companies and pension funds, Park said,
without giving any target. Sales of three-year notes, which are
the most liquid government debt and favored by foreign investors,
will be reined in, said Park Jae Seek, director general of the
treasury bureau with the Ministry of Strategy and Finance.  Inflation Fight  “The decline in 10-year yields has been driven by strong
demand and expectations that inflation won’t be a problem in the
long term,” said Yum Sang Hoon, a bond analyst with SK
Securities Co. In Seoul. “It isn’t a bad idea to issue these
notes when borrowing costs are low, although yields are not
likely to be a crucial consideration.”  The government will make an “all-out” effort to contain
inflation at 4 percent this year, the finance ministry said July
26. Bank of  Korea  Deputy Governor Kim Jae Chun said in an
interview the previous day that economic growth will pick up in
the second half and exports are “pretty strong,” leaving room
to focus on containing living costs.  Consumer prices increased 4.7 percent from a year earlier
in July following a 4.4 percent gain in June, data showed today.
Exports jumped 27.3 percent and the  trade surplus  was a record
$7.2 billion, a separate report said. Economists expected
inflation to remain at 4.4 percent and export growth of 17.1
percent, according to the median estimates in Bloomberg surveys.  The government plans to auction 82.4 trillion won ($78
billion) of treasury bonds this year after selling 77.7 trillion
won in 2010, according to the finance ministry. Park said annual
debt sales will be kept at about 80 trillion won, projecting a
 budget deficit  for 2011 equivalent to about 2 percent of gross
domestic product.  Foreign Funds  Overseas-based central banks, pension funds and financial
institutions are buying Korean debt as they seek profitable yet
safe assets to guard against Europe’s debt crisis, Park said.
The yield on 10-year won debt is the highest among the region’s
nations rated A or higher by  Standard & Poor’s , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Similar rates are at 4.05 percent in
 China , 2.02 percent in  Singapore  and 1.60 percent in  Taiwan .  South Korea is also home to the region’s best-performing
currency, boosting the attraction of holding the nation’s assets.
The won advanced 6.8 percent versus the dollar so far this year
and is forecast to gain a further 2.3 percent in the remainder
of this year, based on the median of 23 forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Foreigners boosted their holdings of South Korea’s local-
currency corporate and sovereign debt by 9 percent in the first
half of 2011 to a record 81.1 trillion won, based on  data  from
the Financial Supervisory Services. Their investment in
government notes has doubled since 2008 to 55 trillion won,
according to the  finance ministry .  Safe Haven  “With negative news constantly coming out from Europe and
the U.S., investors have started to embrace Asian local debt as
a mainstream, or even a safe-haven, product,” said Wee-Ming Ting, Singapore-based head of Asian fixed income at Pictet Asset
Management, which oversees $18 billion in emerging-market debt.
“With its stronger economy and its higher  interest rates  versus
many of the Asian peers, Korea becomes one of the more
attractive destinations.”  South Korea’s bonds returned 6.3 percent in the past year,
the third-best performance among  Asia ’s 10 biggest debt markets,
according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. Foreign
demand for the securities “is very strong despite  Europe ’s
crisis and the trend will continue,” Park said.  ‘Relatively Safe’  “Korea is relatively safe from credit and fiscal crisis
risks, and still has room for further currency gains,” said
Shin Dong Jun, chief fixed-income strategist at Dongbu
Securities Co. in Seoul. “Inflation risk is low, as the
increases in interest rates will eventually rein in inflation.”  Park said the finance ministry plans to ease pricing rules
for inflation-linked bonds to boost market participation. South
Korea has 4.75 trillion won of such bonds outstanding, according
to the ministry. It issued the notes first in 2007 and last sold
96 billion won of 10-year securities on June 23.  Some attempts to sell inflation-linked notes failed as
investors were required to bid for specific amounts without
knowing the yield, a finance ministry report said in May 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net 
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net .
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  