-- 
South Africa’s Debt Yields Drop to Seven-Month Lows Before Debt Auction

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-01T13:36:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/south-africa-s-debt-yields-drop-to-seven-month-lows-before-debt-auction.html
South African bond yields fell to the
lowest in almost seven months before tomorrow’s government debt
auction on speculation the central bank will leave borrowing
costs unchanged this year to support a recovery in  Africa ’s
biggest economy.  The Pretoria-based Reserve Bank is selling 1.3 billion rand
($195 million) of 8.25 percent bonds maturing in 2017, and 800
million rand of 7 percent notes due 2031, according to central
bank information on Bloomberg. The secondary-market yield on the
2017 bonds dropped 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to
7.82 percent, the lowest since Jan. 7.  The Reserve Bank left its benchmark interest rate unchanged
on July 21 for a fourth consecutive meeting after cutting it
three times last year to 5.5 percent, even as inflation rose at
the highest rate in 15 months in May. The Monetary Policy
Committee said growth in Africa’s largest economy was
“fragile.”  “The  Reserve Bank  will remain cautious of hiking interest
rates at present,” Tradition Analytics researchers led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note.
“This will tend to keep local bonds supported.”  South Africa ’s purchasing managers’ index declined to a
two-year low in July as “prolonged” strikes curbed
manufacturing operations in the continent’s biggest economy,
Kagiso Tiso Holdings said today. On July 29, the Pretoria-based
Reserve Bank reported credit growth was little changed at 5.25
percent in June as rising unemployment damped  consumer spending .  ‘Pronounced Moderation’  “The mounting evidence of a pronounced moderation in
economic growth tempo still, for now, outweighs the risks posed
by rising inflation,” Nomvuyo Guma, an analyst at Johannesburg-
based Standard Bank Group Ltd., wrote in a research note. “Our
view that interest rates will remain unchanged this year still
stands.”  Forward-rate agreements starting in December dropped 1.5
basis points today to 5.75 percent, indicating traders see less
chance of an  interest-rate  increase in November, when the
Monetary Policy Committee meets for the last time this year. The
rate has declined from 5.96 a month ago.  Tomorrow’s debt auction starts at 11 a.m. local time and
results will be announced at about 11:30 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  