-- 
South African Manufacturing Index Sinks to 2-Year Low on Prolonged Strikes

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-08-01T09:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/south-africa-pmi-sinks-to-two-year-low-on-prolonged-strikes.html
South Africa ’s purchasing managers’
index declined to a two-year low in July as “prolonged”
strikes curbed manufacturing operations in the continent’s
biggest economy, Kagiso Tiso Holdings said.  The seasonally adjusted index dropped for a fourth month,
falling to 44.2 from 53.9 in June, Johannesburg-based  Kagiso 
said in an e-mailed statement today. A reading below 50
indicates a contraction in factory production.  “The decline in the PMI can to a degree be explained by
prolonged strike activity in the manufacturing sector during
July,” Kagiso Asset Management’s Head of Research, Abdul
Davids, said in the statement. The labor action pushed the
business activity sub-index down 19.3 points to 35.9, he said.  An 18-day strike by petroleum, chemical, engineering and
packaging workers curbed factory production and interrupted
supplies from refineries owned by  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) ,  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  and BP Plc this month, causing fuel shortages. In a separate
work stoppage, about 320,000 metalworkers downed tools for two
weeks.  Manufacturing, making up 15 percent of the economy, slumped
in April and May after helping drive economic growth in the
first quarter. Factory output grew 0.2 percent in April and 0.6
percent in May compared with the same months a year earlier,
according to Statistics South Africa.  Factory job prospects “remain dire” with the employment
index slipping 8.6 points to 39.1, Kagiso said.  South Africa’s jobless rate, the highest of 61 countries
tracked by Bloomberg, increased to 25.7 percent in the second
quarter as the number of people without work surged by 174,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 