-- 
Spain’s Indra Eyes Foreign Markets as Home Economy Falters

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-08-02T07:49:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/spain-s-indra-sistemas-eyes-latin-america-asia-as-domestic-economy-stalls.html
Indra Sistemas SA (IDR) ,  Spain ’s largest
computer services company, is betting on foreign markets,
especially in  Latin America  and  Asia , to offset domestic
economic woes and government austerity measures.  “We were expecting a reduction in Spain, but the financial
crisis accelerated it,” General Director Emma Fernandez said in
an interview at Indra’s headquarters in  Madrid . “We’re still
growing very fast, especially in Latin America and Asia.”  The former state-owned company, whose offerings range from
systems for defense, transportation and air-traffic control to
health, security, ticketing and elections, is targeting surging
infrastructure investments in countries such as Brazil,  China 
and Vietnam. Indra this year agreed to buy Brazil’s  Politec
Tecnologia da Informacao SA , increasing the share of
international sales to 47 percent from 40 percent and making the
country its second-largest market with 10 percent of revenue.  Indra, whose competitors range from France-based  Thales SA (HO) 
and Italy’s Selex Sistemi Integrati SpA to  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  of the U.S., said July 29 that sales
climbed 2 percent in the first half. Revenue in Europe dropped 6
percent, while Latin America sales advanced 16 percent. Revenue
in Asia, Pacific and Africa rose 17 percent.  “The company’s track record and management is very
respected and they’re doing a great job abroad, especially in
Latin America and the Middle East,” Ignacio Ortiz de Mendivil,
an analyst at Banco BPI in Madrid, said by phone. “Indra
usually meets guidance and market expectations, even if last
year’s margins were worse.”  Outperforming the Market  Indra fell 0.3 percent to 13.40 euros at 9:45 a.m. in
Madrid trading. The stock has gained 4.8 percent this year,
valuing the company at 2.2 billion euros. The Spanish benchmark
Ibex 35 index declined 5.8 percent in the same period.  Indra’s 2010 net income dropped 3.6 percent to 188.5
million euros ($271.4 million), while sales rose 1.7 percent to
2.6 billion euros.  The company also benefitted as some of its Spanish
customers expanded in Europe, including  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Europe’s
second-largest phone company and  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s
biggest bank.  “The biggest risk for the company is its exposure to the
domestic market,” Ortiz de Mendivil said. “We can expect new
budget cuts in the coming months, which won’t be positive for
them.”  Spanish Budget Cuts  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero called
early elections July 29 after austerity measures eroded support
for his Socialist Party. Spain, the euro area’s fourth-largest
economy, seeks to convince investors it can control the  budget
deficit  as it faces a possible downgrade by Moody’s Investors
Service.  Europe’s debt crisis forced Zapatero to ditch pledges for
more social spending and replace them with public-sector wage
cuts as he struggled to tackle unemployment of more than 20
percent.  As companies adjust to forecasts of slower growth in Spain
after a decade-long boom, Norsk Hydro ASA, Europe’s third-
largest aluminum maker, said on July 26 that it is cutting jobs
and capacity at its operations in Spain and Portugal because of
lower demand from builders.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s
largest mobile-phone company, on July 22 reported slowing
service revenue growth for the fiscal first quarter, citing
“challenging” conditions in southern Europe.  “Indra will get more revenue from abroad in coming months
and that will continue to be the trend, although Spain is still
our main market,” Fernandez said. “We are concerned about the
evolution of Spain but we see it as an opportunity because the
economic model of Spain needs to move towards technology and
more productivity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  