-- 
Standard Chartered Profits May Rise on Cost Controls

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n
-- 
2011-08-02T03:22:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/standard-chartered-may-post-a-rise-in-profit-on-cost-controls.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the British
bank that makes most of its earnings in  Asia , may say net income
rose in the first half of the year, as the lender controls costs
to chase its eighth successive year of record profit.  The London-based bank will post net income of $2.39 billion
compared with $2.15 billion a year earlier, according to the
median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank
is due to report earnings at 5.30 a.m. London time on Aug. 3.  “There’s been a slowing down on headcount replacement
which has dragged costs down a bit,” said  Mike Trippitt , an
analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. who rates the stock a “buy.”
“It’s a bank that has a very good control over the revenue and
cost trade-off, when to invest and when not to invest.”  Finance Director Richard Meddings in June said the bank has
a “firm grip” on expenses, which will grow in line with
revenue after the bank hired 7,000 people last year. Standard
Chartered said it had “double digit” profit growth in the
first five months of 2011 as consumer banking earnings in
markets including  Hong Kong ,  Singapore ,  Malaysia  and  Indonesia 
mitigated lower revenue in  India .  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , another U.K.-based bank which earns more
than half its profit in Asia, said yesterday it plans to cut
30,000 jobs by the end of 2013 to reduce costs inflated by
hiring and wage inflation. Standard Chartered will add a net
1,000 people to its workforce this year, the bank said in June.  Standard Chartered fell 0.9 percent to HK$200.20 at 11:11
a.m. in Hong Kong. The  Hang Seng Index  declined 0.5 percent.  ‘Different Story’  “Standard Chartered is a different story,” said  Dominic Chan , a Hong Kong-based analyst at BNP Paribas SA. “Its scale
is smaller than HSBC and it has limited operations in high cost
areas like Europe and the U.S.”  Both HSBC and  Standard Chartered  are paying more to attract
employees to their investment banks. HSBC “experienced quite
significant wage inflation” in the first half, Finance Director
Iain Mackay told analysts yesterday.  Standard Chartered raised more than $5 billion in October,
partly to bolster capital.  The bank has declined 9.7 percent from Jan. 1 to July 29,
the second-best performer in the five-member FTSE 350 Banks
index after HSBC.  The table below shows analysts’ median estimates for the
first half of 2011 in millions of dollars for Standard Chartered.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jon Menon at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  