-- 
Stocks Rising 12% Before Elections Celebrate Budget Impasse

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-08-01T20:09:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/stocks-rising-12-before-elections-celebrate-budget-impasse-1-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s dispute with
Congress cost U.S. stockholders $680 billion last week. It may
be a clash investors end up embracing, based on more than a
century of market history.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  has posted average gains
of 12 percent in years before presidential elections since its
creation in 1896 and advanced the last 17 times, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and Dow Jones. The 30-company gauge
has risen 4.9 percent in 2011, its third-smallest increase at
this point of an administration’s third year since the streak of
gains began in 1941. It needs to climb another 7.2 percent
through the end of the year to match the historical mean.  Candidates seeking re-election typically cut taxes and
support measures that boost equities. While the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell every day last week on concern the U.S.
will default, the combination of Obama’s appeal for a bipartisan
solution, rising corporate profits and European efforts to
prevent the euro from unraveling may prove to be bullish signs.  “A grand bargain is just the ticket to power stocks,”
Howard Ward, who helps oversee $35 billion in Rye, New York, for
 Mario Gabelli ’s Gamco Investors Inc., said in an e-mail on July
26. “With the Fed on hold, Greece off the table and a
bipartisan debt deal in  Washington , stocks would be the only
game in town.”  Agreement Reached  The S&P 500 fell 0.4 percent to 1,286.94 at 4 p.m. in New
York today as slower-than-forecast growth in U.S. manufacturing
offset Obama’s announcement that leaders of both parties in the
House and Senate approved a deal to raise the debt ceiling and
cut the federal deficit.  The stock index dropped for a third month in July, its
longest slump since 2008, as the  U.S. Treasury  prepared plans
for paying the government’s obligations should Congress fail to
raise the borrowing limit. The government will run out of
options to prevent a default unless the $14.3 trillion ceiling
is increased by tomorrow, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner
has said.  The  S&P 500  declined to the lowest level since June after
the Commerce Department said July 29 that the  U.S. economy  grew
less than forecast in the second quarter. Gross domestic product
climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate following a 0.4 percent
gain in the prior quarter that was slower than earlier reported.  AAA Rating  S&P, which has given the U.S. a top AAA ranking since 1941,
said on July 14 that the chance of a downgrade within three
months is 50 percent, and a reduction may occur in August if
there isn’t a “credible” plan to reduce the nation’s deficit.
The S&P 500 slid 3.9 percent last week, the most in a year.  The 12 percent average rally in pre-election years compares
with the Dow’s 7.4 percent annual gain since 1896, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The Dow has risen 5.9 percent and 3.8 percent
in the two years after the vote, respectively, and 7.5 percent
the year Americans select the president.  Advances in the third year of the cycle have been led by
companies whose earnings are most tied to the economy, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and Birinyi Associates Inc. That’s
in part because government measures stimulated growth, said
Linda Duessel, Federated Investors Inc.’s equity market
strategist. In 1999 and 2003, technology, consumer discretionary
and materials shares posted the biggest gains among 10 groups in
the S&P 500. In 2007, energy and materials stocks rose the most.  Intel, Amazon  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest chipmaker, has beaten the
S&P 500 in every pre-election year since at least 1983,
Bloomberg data show. Seed-company  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and online
retailer  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  posted average gains of 119 percent in
2003 and 2007, compared with the S&P 500’s 15 percent average
advance, the data show.  “These three areas are the cyclical areas that would do
better if economic activity was doing well,” Pittsburgh-based
Duessel said in a July 26 telephone interview. Her firm oversees
$354.9 billion. “If our leaders spend money to jump-start the
economy, then those sectors would all benefit.”  The S&P 500 gained 26 percent in 2003, the most in five
years, after President  George W. Bush  lowered taxes on dividends
and capital gains. It was the start of a 60-month  bull market  in
which the index doubled. Bush was re-elected in 2004.  The biggest yearly rally of the last five decades was in
1995, when the S&P 500 climbed 34 percent, as a debate over
federal spending resulted in two government shutdowns. The
dispute between House Speaker Newt Gingrich, a Republican, and
Democratic President  Bill Clinton  prompted Moody’s Investors
Service to review some U.S. government bonds for a downgrade in
January 1996. Clinton was re-elected that year.  Stimulus Spending  This year may be different because the government has run
up debt through stimulus spending that may be curtailed,
according to  Rob Arnott , who helps oversee $75 billion as
founder of Research Affiliates LLC in  Newport Beach ,  California .  “If they take spending off the table quickly enough, it
creates a major recession,” he said in a telephone interview on
July 27. “What the rating agencies are pointing out is if you
don’t take spending off the table, you eventually hit a Greek-
style wall, and they can’t allow that.”  Government spending may total 25 percent of gross domestic
product this year, according to a note last week from Chicago-
based Bianco Research LLC. Should the Aug. 2 deadline pass
without a deal, that level could fall to 15 percent, according
to the research firm.  Fleeing Risk  Although a U.S. downgrade or default would be directly
linked to Treasuries, bond markets are signaling investors would
flee riskier assets for the perceived safety of fixed income.
Treasury yields average 0.72 percentage point less than the rest
of the world’s sovereign debt markets, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show. The difference has expanded from 0.15
percentage point in January.  Ten-year Treasuries surged last week, driving yields as low
as 2.77 percent on July 29, the lowest level since Nov. 30.  “Treasuries are still the safe haven asset, which creates
this perverse thing where you get people buying Treasuries
because of concerns that in part stem from the Treasury
market,”  Russ Koesterich , the San Francisco-based global chief
investment strategist for the IShares unit of BlackRock Inc.,
said in a July 26 telephone interview. His firm oversees $3.66
trillion as the world’s largest asset manager.  Government disputes and federal budget deficits shouldn’t
be a primary concern for investors, according to  Timothy Ghriskey , the chief investment officer at the Solaris Group LLC
in  Bedford Hills ,  New York . He said stocks declined last week
because of a lack of clarity on the outcome.  Resolution in 1995  “The debt negotiations and concern about a default in
Washington are raising the level of uncertainty in the market,
which investors don’t like,” Ghriskey, whose firm manages $2
billion, said in a July 27 telephone interview. In 1995, “once
that was over, we ended up being fine,” he said.  U.S. equities are cheaper this year than their historical
average during pre-election years, as measured by the S&P 500,
even after the index almost doubled since March 2009. The gauge
is trading at 14.2 times reported earnings, or 17 percent below
the year-end average since 1955, Bloomberg data show. Higher
earnings have kept the valuation down, with companies beating
analyst estimates for the 10th straight quarter.  A group of S&P 500 consumer discretionary companies is
exceeding the index by 3.2 percentage points so far in 2011.
Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, is up 24 percent,
more than eight times the index. The Seattle-based company
reported second-quarter profit and sales that beat analysts’
estimates after its Kindle e-reader helped fuel growth.  Monsanto, Intel  Monsanto, the world’s biggest seed company, is up twice as
much as the benchmark equity index. The St. Louis-based company
raised its full-year profit forecast above the average estimate
on June 29, boosting the shares 5 percent that day.  Even with the S&P 500’s performance during pre-election
years, Santa Clara, California-based Intel has done better,
beating the index by 51 percentage points, according to data
back to 1983 compiled by Bloomberg. Greater demand for Intel’s
chips has lifted selling prices, and the company last month
forecast third-quarter sales higher than some analyst estimates.  “Where the third year is concerned, it makes much more
common sense that whoever is in a leadership position wants to
keep his position and thus will spend a lot of money to make his
constituents happy,” Federated’s Duessel said in the telephone
interview. “If you let history be your guide, then you would
say we should be much higher in terms of the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  