-- 
Swiss Franc Soars to Records, Gains Most Versus Euro Since October 2008

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m i l y   B l e w e t t
-- 
2011-08-02T17:49:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/switzerlaned-s-franc-weakens-versus-euro-dollar-on-u-s-debt-ceiling-deal.html
The Swiss franc strengthened to
records, posting its biggest gain versus the euro since 2008, as
surging bond yields in  Italy  and  Spain  stoked demand for safer
assets outside the 17-nation currency region.  Switzerland ’s currency rose against all of its 16 major
peers tracked by Bloomberg, reaching all-time highs against the
euro, dollar and pound as data showed the nation’s retail sales
grew and manufacturing unexpectedly accelerated. Italian and
Spanish 10-year bonds fell, pushing yields to euro-era records
versus German bunds, amid concern that slowing growth will
hamper efforts to trim the Mediterranean nations’ debt loads.  “When people want to deleverage and decrease exposure to
peripheral countries such as Italy, we see demand for the Swiss
franc rise,” said  Sebastien Galy , a foreign-exchange strategist
at Societe Generale SA in London.  The Swiss currency appreciated 2.9 percent to a record
1.08467 per euro at 5:50 p.m. in  London , the steepest intraday
gain since Oct. 24, 2008 in the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s collapse. It rallied as much as 2.5 percent against the
dollar, the most since March 18, 2009, to 76.43 centimes. It
surged as much as 2.6 percent against the pound to 1.2439.  Implied volatility, a key gauge of option prices that tends
to rise in times of uncertainty, for euro-Swiss one-month
options climbed to as much as 17.75 percent. That’s the highest
level since Nov. 3, 2008.  Retail Sales  Swiss retail sales rose 7.4 percent in June from a year
earlier, according to the Federal Statistics office. The Swiss
Purchasing Manager’s Index, a measure of manufacturing growth,
rose to 53.5 in July, Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG said
today. Economists had forecast a drop to 52.5, according to a
survey conducted by Bloomberg.  “Strong data reinforces the view that people are hesitant
to short positions on the Swiss franc,” said Galy. “Economic
fundamentals will keep the franc favored as a haven. We may see
further strengthening against the euro.”  Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said on July 31
that the strength of the franc would lead to “extremely tough
years” for Swiss exporters and the  tourism industry .  “The  Swiss National Bank  and corporate Switzerland are
bearing the brunt of the wider debt problems in the U.S. and
 euro zone ,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International in London. “We are already seeing the
Swiss economy hurt by the currency strengthening. With further
strengthening, it is going to prove more difficult for the
economy as a whole and for individual companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Blewett in London at 
 eblewett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  