-- 
British Invasion From Wild Beasts, Anna Calvi’s Chanteuse Chic

-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 
2011-08-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/u-k-invasion-from-wild-beasts-anna-calvi-s-chanteuse-chic-aug-music.html
Synthesizers echoed over the P.A.
system at  Le Poisson Rouge  on July 14th as the dimly lit stage
was filled with smoke, then with the four members of Wild Beasts
plus keyboardist Katie Harkin, borrowed from the band Sky
Larkin.  Drummer Chris Talbot opened with a tribal drum beat for
“Plaything.” Keys and samples joined in as Hayden Thorpe’s
beautiful falsetto voice took over. It was most mellow and set
the tone for the band’s new songs.  “Loop the Loop” brought purple lights swirling through the
fog. Thorpe, with hair slicked back and beard neatly trimmed,
traded his bass for a guitar and kept the unique voice. Larkin’s
delicate keys laid filigree on this dreamy number.  The band, which formed in Kendal, U.K., and now resides in
 London , continued with new material from its third album
“Smother.” On “Deeper,” Tom Fleming took over vocal and guitar,
his baritone a stark contrast to Thorpe’s, though the two
matched nicely on harmonies.  After the new material’s mellow, “The Devils Crayon,” from
the band’s debut album, lit a spark. The prickly guitar work of
Ben Little and tip-tap drumming of Talbot gelled perfectly.
Fleming and Thorpe swap vocal duties as the song moved between
peaks and valleys before coming to a slow end.  The energy remained high as the guys went through material
from their sophomore album “Two Dancers.” “We Still Got the
Taste Dancin’ on Our Tongues” created a dark and sexy vibe all
through their layering of minimal notes mixed with Hayden’s
haunting vocals. The crowd showed its appreciation or awe with
utter silence.  The closing “Hooting & Howling” brought on impromptu
clapping from the crowd. Wild Beasts are a captivating band that
challenges its listeners. Be sure to see them when they return
to New York for a pair of shows at the  Music Hall of
Williamsburg  on Sept. 23rd and 24th.  Anna Calvi  The British invasion at Le Poisson Rouge continued on July
27th with the London sensation Anna Calvi -- her self-titled
 debut album  was recently nominated for a 2011 Barclaycard
Mercury Prize.  Hair in a bun, lips bright red and eyes dark with eyeliner,
Calvi strapped on a guitar for the instrumental “Rider to the
Sea.” With the big, deep opening note, all chatter ceased,
making way for reverb-heavy guitar riffs, rolling drums and
colliding cymbals. Calvi’s guitar worked into impressive speed
by the end.  “No More Words” proved she’s a complete package. Her sultry
voice and this dark, sexy tune again stilled the crowd.
“Blackout” brought out a triumphal feel, with pounding drums and
pumping harmonium.  Compared to P.J. Harvey  Often compared to PJ Harvey -- they share producer Rob
Ellis -- Calvi offers one of today’s most promising acts. She’s
a musician who draws on the past and still makes retro sound
fresh, as with covers of  Elvis Presley ’s “Surrender” and of
“Jezebel,” made famous by Frankie Laine and Edith Piaf.  The encore saw two covers. She gave a chilling instrumental
rendition of Leonard Cohen’s “Joan of Arc,” with her guitar work
resembling a harpist. Closing with “Jezebel” brought out a
western flair and roped us in like a hot cowgirl.  While Calvi has no more U.S. dates at this time, she will
be touring Europe and the U.K.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in August. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets.  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 