-- 
U.K. Manufacturing Unexpectedly Shrinks as New Orders Plunge

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-08-01T08:56:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/u-k-manufacturing-unexpectedly-contracted-in-july-cips-says.html
U.K. manufacturing unexpectedly
shrank the most in more than two years in July and factories cut
jobs as domestic demand weakened.  A gauge based on a survey by  Markit Economics  and the
Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply fell to 49.1, the
lowest since June 2009, from 51.4 the previous month, according
to an e-mailed report in London today. The median forecast of 28
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was 51. A level below 50
indicates contraction. New orders fell at the fastest pace since
May 2009.  The pound erased its gain against the dollar after the
report, which came hours after the  Confederation of British
Industry  cut its 2011 U.K. growth forecast. With the economic
recovery failing to gain momentum, the  Bank of England  will
probably leave its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of
0.5 percent this week, according to all 55 economists in a
Bloomberg poll.  “Alarm bells are ringing for the U.K. manufacturing
sector, which has seen conditions deteriorate rapidly since the
start of the year,” CIPS Chief Executive Officer  David Noble 
said in a statement. “Unless conditions improve we may have a
real problem on our hands.”  The pound fell as much as 0.3 percent against the dollar
after the factory data were published. It traded at $1.6411 as
of 9:54 a.m. in London, compared with $1.6426 on July 29.  Global Slowdown  In Russia and Australia, manufacturing also shrank in July,
according to separate reports today, while the pace of factory
growth slowed in the euro area and  China .  Markit said U.K. manufacturing output growth slowed in
July, while employment declined “slightly” and price pressures
eased.  “Even though the weak sterling  exchange rate  is still
supporting overseas sales, softer economic growth in key trading
partners means it is having a much lesser impact,” said Markit
economist Rob Dobson.  Cambridge, England-based  CSR Plc (CSR) , a maker of chips used in
Nokia Oyj mobile phones, said July 27 sales fell 12 percent in
the second quarter. Chief Executive Officer Joep van Beurden
said in a statement the company will be able to overcome
“increasing economic uncertainty” in the second half of 2011.  The CBI, Britain’s biggest business lobby, said today that
U.K. gross domestic product will rise 1.3 percent this year,
less than the 1.7 percent it previously forecast. It sees the
Bank of England leaving the key interest rate at 0.5 percent
until next year.  Policy makers will probably hold their bond-purchase
program at 200 billion pounds ($329 billion) this week,
according to all 37 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
central bank will announce its decision at noon on Aug. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  