-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Raw Materials Rally on Debt Accord

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-08-01T12:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-raw-materials-rally-on-debt-accord.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  TOP STORY:  Commodities Rally as U.S. Ends Debt-Ceiling Deadlock; Gold Drops  Commodities rose, paced by wheat and oil, after President
 Barack Obama  said U.S. lawmakers agreed to raise the federal
debt ceiling, avoiding a potential default. Gold slumped as
demand for a haven eased.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Ethanol, Sugar Mill-Power Could Create Jobs, Tongaat Says  Southern African countries could create 1.8 million jobs if
they adopted similar regulations to Brazil governing the
production of ethanol and electricity from sugar, the Chief
Executive Officer of Tongaat-Hulett Group Ltd. said.  Russia  Targets Asia With Cheapest Wheat After Putin’s Export Ban  Russia, the world’s second-biggest wheat exporter before
halting sales last year, is offering the largest discount on the
grain in at least four years and targeting buyers in  Southeast
Asia  to regain its share of the world market after lifting an
export ban a month ago.  Catalpa May Buy Advanced Project in  Asia  in Future, CEO Says  Catalpa Resources Ltd. may buy an advanced gold project in
Asia capable of delivering 100,000 to 200,000 ounces of gold a
year, after “bedding down” an agreed merger with Conquest
Mining Ltd., Chief Executive Officer Bruce McFadzean said.  Debt Downgrade Amounts to Few Basis Points in Rating History (2)  As the prospect for the loss of the U.S.’s AAA credit
rating approaches and congressional leaders agree on a pact to
avert default, bonds and currencies are signaling increasing
demand for the assets of the world’s largest economy.  Sabic May Pursue First Bond Sale Since October: Arab Credit  Saudi Basic Industries Corp., which bought General Electric
Co.’s plastics unit in 2007, may take advantage of the lowest
yields in almost nine months to raise funds by selling bonds.  China Steel Said to Make Offer for Lion Group’s Steel Assets  China Steel Corp.,  Taiwan ’s largest maker of the metal,
offered to buy the steel businesses of Malaysia’s Lion Group,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  S. African CEOs Told by Eunomix Nationalization May Happen (1)  South Africa ’s ruling party may institute some form of mine
nationalization, a step that could throttle investments in the
world’s biggest producer of platinum and chrome, according to a
confidential report prepared for mining executives by a risk
analyst.  Germany, Poland Will Sell Most Carbon Permits at Early Auctions  Germany and Poland will sell the largest share of 120
million carbon allowances that will be sold before the next
period of the European Union emissions trading system begins in
2012, according to an EU document.  Gold Coins Sell Out in Lisbon as Biggest Bet Sees 11% Gain (1)  Rui Lola says gold sales at his foreign exchange and coin
store in downtown Lisbon almost doubled this year, draining
inventories faster than he can replace them.  Cargill Bonus Plan Limits Stifle Competition, Ex-Trader Claims  Cargill Inc., the biggest agricultural company in the U.S.,
broke  Singapore ’s public policy rules with bonus plan
restrictions that were too broad and stifled competition, a
former trader claimed in a lawsuit.  Coffee Open Interest Signals Longer Price Drop: Chart of the Day  A plunge of investment in coffee futures contributed to a
22 percent decline in prices from a 14-year high in May and is
signaling that the slump has further to go, according to Fain
Shaffer at Infinity Trading Corp.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises for Third Day as U.S. Debt Accord Averts Default  Copper rose for a third day in  London  after President
Barack Obama said U.S. lawmakers agreed to raise the
government’s debt limit, avoiding a default by the world’s
second-largest user of the metal.  Funds Raise Bullish Commodity Bets as Silver Holdings Jump (1)  Funds lifted bets on rising commodity prices to a six-week
high after traders snapped up raw materials as alternative
assets amid the escalating U.S. debt crisis.  MINING:  Gindalbie Considers Buying 10% Stake in Oakajee Port, Rail (1)  Gindalbie Metals Ltd., developing a A$2.6 billion ($2.9
billion) iron ore mine in  Australia , may consider buying a 10
percent stake in the Oakajee port and rail project that it will
use to ship ore from its mine.  Ukraine Halts Rescue Effort After 37 Miners Die in Accidents  Ukraine called off rescue efforts at the two coal mines
where 37 workers died last week in the deadliest such accidents
in the east European nation since 2007.  African Minerals Jumps on $1.5 Billion Shandong Mine Accord (1)  African Minerals Ltd., building a $1.2 billion iron ore
project in  Sierra Leone , climbed the most in more than two
months in London trading after completing an investment accord
with Shandong Iron & Steel Group Co.  South Australia Premier Rann to Step Down After BHP Olympic Deal  South Australia Premier Mike Rann, the nation’s longest
serving Labor party leader, will step down once he completes
negotiations with BHP Billiton Ltd. on a proposed expansion of
its Olympic Dam mine in the region.  Newcrest Plans to Start West Africa Exploration Next Quarter  Newcrest Mining Ltd. plans to start larger-scale gold
exploration work in West Africa from the next quarter, Colin
Moorhead, executive general manager of exploration, said at a
conference in  Western Australia . The company saw ‘real
opportunity’ to grow the resource of its Bonikro mine, he said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Drops From Record as Obama Says Lawmakers Reach Debt Deal  Gold declined from a record as President Barack Obama said
that U.S. lawmakers reached a deal to increase the nation’s debt
limit and cut the federal deficit, averting a default tomorrow
and eroding demand for haven assets.  China  Platinum Imports to Rise on Jewelry, Autos, Antaike Says  China’s imports of platinum may gain 10 percent this year
as the metal’s narrowing premium over gold boosted its appeal
among jewelry buyers and auto sales spurred demand for
catalysts, said Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil  Climbs as U.S. Agrees on Debt Cap Rise, Avoids Default  Palm oil gained for the first time in three days, joining a
rally in commodities and stocks, after President Barack Obama
said lawmakers reached an agreement to raise the U.S. debt
ceiling, avoiding a default.  Wheat, Corn Climb as U.S. Debt-Ceiling Accord Avoids Default  Wheat and corn rose in  Chicago  after President Barack Obama
said U.S. lawmakers agreed to raise the federal debt limit,
avoiding a possible default.  Sugar Rises on Signals Demand Remains Steady; Coffee Advances  Sugar rose in London for a first session in four on signs
demand is maintaining its pace as output in  Brazil ’s main
producing region is set to fall for the first time in six years.
Coffee advanced.  Japan  Expands Cattle Shipment Ban as Radiation Taints Beef  Japan banned cattle shipments from Iwate prefecture, the
nation’s fifth-largest grower, as the contaminated-beef crisis
widened with radiation threatening the country’s food supply.  India ’s Cotton Exports May Be Limited on ‘Lackluster’ Demand (1)  Cotton exports from India, the world’s second-largest
grower, may be limited in the next two months as global demand
for the fiber remains “lackluster,” according to a textiles
group.  SHIPPING:  GE Agrees to $1.05 Billion Sale of SeaCo to HNA, Bravia (1)  General Electric Co. and a partner agreed to sell shipping-
container lessor GE SeaCo for $1.05 billion to China-based HNA
Group Co. and Bravia Capital as Chief Executive Officer Jeff
Immelt reshapes GE’s finance business.  Syria Raises Souedie Crude Price for August to Five-Month High  Sytrol, Syria’s state-run oil company, raised the official
selling price of its Souedie crude for loading in August by 85
cents a barrel to a five-month high, a company official said.  ECONOMIES:  China Manufacturing Growth Moderates on Tightening, Exports (3)  China’s manufacturing slowed less than economists estimated
in July even as smaller businesses were hurt by tighter credit
and weakness in export demand.  China July Home Prices Rise Slowest in 11 Months, SouFun Says  China’s home prices rose at the slowest pace in 11 months
in July after the government expanded efforts to curb the risk
of an asset bubble, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks Rise, U.S. Default Risk, Yen Drop on Debt-Limit Plan  Stocks and oil gained while the cost of U.S. default
insurance fell the most in 18 months after President Barack
Obama said congressional leaders reached an agreement to raise
America’s debt ceiling. The yen, Swiss franc and Treasuries
declined.  Yen, Franc Slide as U.S. Debt Agreement Curbs Demand for Refuge  The yen slid against its major counterparts and dropped the
most in four months versus the dollar as U.S. President Barack
Obama and congressional leaders agreed on a plan to prevent a
default.  Lira Rebounds as Erdogan Strengthened by Military Resignations  The lira rallied as Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s
government began appointing new military chiefs after protest
resignations, strengthening civilian rule  in the fastest
growing major economy.  European Stocks Rally on U.S. Debt Deal; HSBC, Hammerson Climb  European stocks climbed after President Barack Obama said
U.S. lawmakers have reached agreement on raising the nation’s
debt limit to avoid a default. U.S. index futures and Asian
shares also advanced.  Worst  Europe  Earnings Hit Industrials as Stoxx 600 Falls 9% (1)  Profits at European companies are trailing analyst
estimates by the most in at least five years, dragged down by
manufacturing shares that had been forecast to lead a rally in
the second half of the year.  Commodities Beat Stocks, Bonds in July Amid China Expansion (1)  Commodities beat stocks, bonds and the dollar for the first
time in three months in July as expectations that China’s
booming economy will spur demand for raw materials outweighed
the debt crises in the U.S. and Europe.  Syrian Army Extends Hama Assault on First Day of Ramadan (2)  Syria’s army pressed its attack on Hama as thousands took
to the streets of Damascus and other cities to protest the
killing of more than 140 people by President Bashar al-Assad’s
security forces.  Oil Advances From Two-Week Low as Lawmakers Reach Debt Agreement  Oil advanced from a two-week low in  New York  after
President Barack Obama said Congressional leaders approved a
deal to raise America’s debt ceiling, stoking speculation the
world’s biggest crude user will avoid a default.  HSBC Says It Plans to Cut 30,000 Jobs Worldwide by End 2013 (2)  HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest bank, said it plans to
cut 30,000 jobs by the end of 2013, about 10 percent of the
total, to stem rising costs. The shares jumped.  SPORTS:  Manchester Utd. Makes Sneijder Approach, Guardian Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Stallings Extends PGA Tour’s 2011 Rookie Run With Greenbrier Win  Scott Stallings made a 7-foot putt on the first hole of a
three-way playoff at the Greenbrier Classic to become the U.S.
PGA Tour’s sixth rookie winner this season.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  