-- 
U.S. Economy: Manufacturing Almost Stalls as Orders Drop

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-08-01T20:19:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/u-s-ism-manufacturing-index-fell-to-50-9-in-july-from-55-3.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. almost
stalled in July, threatening to deprive the two-year recovery of
one of its main drivers.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index slumped
to 50.9, the lowest since July 2009, from 55.3 a month earlier,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Figures less than 50
signal contraction, and the July index was lower than the most
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Stocks declined and Treasuries rallied as orders shrank for
the first time since June 2009, indicating production and
economic growth may be limited. Other reports today indicated a
global slowdown as factory measures from Asia to Europe dropped.  “Businesses have cut back on orders and employment because
they are just not seeing the demand that they expected,” said
 John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in
Charlotte,  North Carolina . “The economy is just not picking up
momentum in the second half.”  The median forecast in the Bloomberg survey of 80
economists called for a decline to 54.5. Estimates ranged from
51 to 56.  Stocks erased an early rally triggered by speculation U.S.
lawmakers will vote in favor of a plan to raise the debt
ceiling. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.4 percent to
1,286.94 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York . Treasuries rose,
pushing down the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to 2.75
percent from 2.80 percent on July 29.  Asia to Europe  U.K., Russian and Australian manufacturing shrank, while
the pace of factory growth slowed in  Europe  and  China , according
to other surveys today.  The U.S. ISM report showed the new orders measure dropped
to 49.2 in July from 51.6, while orders waiting to be filled
fell to the lowest since April 2009. The measure of production
in July decreased to the lowest level since June 2009, while
inventories contracted.  A gauge of factory employment declined to the lowest since
December 2009, while a measure of exports increased.  Americans are reducing purchases in response to sluggish
 job creation  and higher fuel costs. The economy expanded at a
1.3 percent annual rate in the second quarter, less than
forecast, Commerce Department figures showed last week.
Household spending rose at 0.1 percent pace, the weakest since
the second quarter of 2009.  Federal Reserve   Growth cooled in eight of the Federal Reserve’s 12 regions,
the central bank said last week in its Beige Book survey. Many
regions said manufacturing slowed or held steady, according to
the report, which covered June and the first half of July.  Fed policy makers, including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , said
they anticipate the economy will strengthen in the second half
of 2011 as “factors that are likely to be temporary” subside.  A Commerce Department report today showed construction
spending rose for a third straight month in June, led by a gain
in nonresidential building. The 0.2 percent increase followed a
0.3 percent revised gain that was previously reported as a
decrease.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris 
said his company sees “growth continuing to gain traction in
developed markets, albeit at a somewhat uneven and jagged pace
given persistently high unemployment in the U.S. and sovereign
debt concerns in Europe.”  “In fast-growing emerging geographies, despite some
inflationary pressures, the rapid expansion of the middle class
continues to drive robust underlying fundamentals,” Liveris
said in a July 27 statement.  Manufacturers may need to rely more on overseas demand,
which is being driven a weak  U.S. dollar .  Dow, the largest U.S. chemical maker, reported second-
quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates, led by gains
in basic chemicals and plastics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  