-- 
U.S. Swaps Regulators to Seek Comment on Overseas Reach

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-08-01T19:56:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/u-s-derivatives-regulators-seek-comments-on-overseas-reach-of-dodd-frank.html
U.S. financial regulators are
planning to seek comment on when Dodd-Frank Act rules for the
$601 trillion swaps market apply to international transactions
or firms conducting business overseas.  The  Securities and Exchange Commission  plans to propose a
rule, while  Gary Gensler , chairman of the  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission , said the agency will publish information
about the potential reach of the law and seek response from
banks, energy firms and other market participants.  “We will seek further public comment at the CFTC about
these international issues,” Gensler said at a meeting today in
Washington about the extraterritorial impact of the law.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , among other firms, said in a June 29 letter that proposed
Dodd-Frank regulations threaten to “damage the
competitiveness” of the foreign-based business of U.S. banks
compared with their overseas rivals. Dodd-Frank, enacted last
July, aims to reduce risk and boost transparency in the swaps
market after largely unregulated transactions helped fuel the
2008 credit crisis.  U.S. regulators should seek to coordinate their rules and
timetables as much as possible with foreign regulators,
representatives of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world biggest asset
manager, and  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF)  said at the meeting.  ‘Deep and Liquid’  Without that harmonization, the “deep and liquid”
derivatives markets may become fragmented, said Supurna Vedbrat,
managing director at BlackRock. “That will impact competitive
pricing that clients receive today,” he said.  If the U.S. moves ahead of other countries with a series of
new rules, U.S. firms could lose business to overseas
competitors, Thomas Riggs III, managing director at Goldman
Sachs, said at the meeting.  A time gap may create a period in which “business, client
relationships, liquidity, whatever, may flow somewhere else,”
he said. “Ultimately when the rest of the world harmonizes with
the U.S. approach the question is: Can you get it back?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  