-- 
U.S. Ethanol Industry to Keep Subsidies Until End of 2011

-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 
2011-08-01T19:51:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/u-s-ethanol-industry-will-maintain-subsidies-until-the-end-of-2011.html
U.S. ethanol subsidies aren’t
affected by a congressional agreement to lift the country’s debt
limit that may be voted on by both chambers today, according to
industry groups.  The 45-cent tax credit for each gallon of the biofuel
blended into gasoline and the 54-cent tariff on Brazilian
imports, due to expire Dec. 31, will stay in place for now,
according to the  Renewable Fuels Association  and Growth Energy,
Washington-based industry trade groups. Industry subsidies total
$6 billion a year.  “Ethanol is out of this deal,” Matt Hartwig, spokesman
for the Renewable Fuels Association, said in an e-mail.
“Whether it is part of the ongoing efforts as part of the super
committee structure remains to be seen.”  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat, forged a
July 7 deal with Senators  Amy Klobuchar , a Minnesota Democrat,
and  John Thune , a South Dakota Republican, to eliminate the
government supports and to include it as part of the deficit-
reduction package. The agreement proposed to reduce federal
deficit by $1.33 billion and to dedicate $668 million to
biofuels and new technologies.  “We have to have a tax vehicle to put it on and we don’t
have a tax vehicle,” Feinstein said to reporters today.
“There’s nothing we can do.”  Tom Buis, chief executive officer of Growth Energy, called
the agreement’s failure “unfortunate” and said his group will
push for it to be included in subsequent legislation.  More Refining Demand  Major ethanol refiners such Poet LLC in Sioux Falls, South
Dakota, Archer Daniels Midland Co. in Decatur, Illinois,  Valero
Energy Corp. (VLO) , and  Green Plains Renewable Energy Inc. (GPRE)  may see
more demand from gasoline distributors looking to pocket the tax
credit before it expires Dec. 31, said  Terry Reilly , an analyst
at Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in Chicago.  “For the ethanol blender, it shows that they can increase
profit a little bit,” Reilly said. “Profit still exists if you
left everything in, it’s just more incentive now.”  Denatured ethanol for August delivery fell 5.1 cents, or
1.8 percent, to settle at $2.84 a gallon on the Chicago Board of
Trade. Futures have gained 19 percent this year.  Ethanol traded at a 21.4-cent discount to gasoline. The
spread between the two was 50.6 cents on July 7, when the
senators forged the compromise.  The U.S. is required to use 12.6 billion gallons of ethanol
this year and 15 billion gallons by 2015 under an energy law
signed in 2007, known as the Renewable Fuels Standard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in  Chicago  at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  