-- 
U.S. Manufacturing Probably Grew in July

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-08-01T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/u-s-manufacturing-probably-grew-in-july-kept-leading-recovery.html
Manufacturing probably grew in July
at about the same pace as a month earlier, showing sales
overseas are helping shield U.S. factories from a slowdown in
 consumer spending , economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index
fell to 54.5 last month compared with 55.3 in June, according to
the median estimate of 63 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion. Another report may
show construction spending rose in June for the first time in
seven months.  Sustained demand from emerging nations including  China  is
driving orders and production at American factories. While the
resumption of parts deliveries after  Japan ’s earthquake may
bolster manufactures, growth will probably be tempered by
stagnant consumer purchases and limited job gains.  “The factory sector is still relatively healthy,” said
 Omair Sharif , an economist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “The dislocations on the supply side are starting
to wear off. The one big concern is the big drop in
employment.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report is due at 10 a.m.
New York time. Estimates ranged from 51 to 56.  Americans are cutting back on purchases in response to
sluggish  job creation  and higher fuel costs. The economy
expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the second quarter,
less than forecast, Commerce Department figures showed last
week. Consumer spending rose at 0.1 percent pace, the weakest
since the second quarter of 2009, at the tail end of the
recession.  Beige Book  Growth cooled in eight of the Federal Reserve’s 12 regions,
the central bank said last week in its  Beige Book  survey. Many
regions said manufacturing slowed or held steady, according to
the report, which covers June and the first half of July.
Business activity in the U.S. expanded at a slower pace in July,
the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said July 29.  At 10 a.m., the Commerce Department will report
construction spending increased 0.1 percent in June from a month
earlier, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Limited production has sent manufacturers’ shares lower.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index, made up of
54 companies including Caterpillar Inc., Deere & Co. and Cummins
Inc., dropped 8.2 percent in July, compared with a 2.1 percent
decrease for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  Federal Reserve   Fed policy makers, including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
anticipate the economy will strengthen in the second half of
2011 as “factors that are likely to be temporary” subside.  Eaton Corp., a Cleveland-based maker of hybrid
transmissions for trucks, said industrial markets and the
automobile industry are recovering.  “All of that leads us to believe that ‘12 is going to be a
solid year of economic growth,” Sandy Cutler, chairman and
chief executive officer, said in a July 25 teleconference with
analysts.  Eaton projects sales this year will top the 2008 record of
$15.37 billion by 6 percent. Revenue climbed 22 percent in the
first half, the company said in a statement.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  