-- 
U.S. Remains at Risk to Lose AAA Rating, Barclays’ Pond Says

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-08-01T17:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/u-s-remains-at-risk-to-lose-aaa-rating-barclays-pond-says.html
The U.S. may lose its AAA rating
because the  agreement  reached by lawmakers to lift the nation’s
debt limit falls short of the deficit reductions sought by
 Standard & Poor’s , according to Barclays Capital’s Michael Pond.  “We’re still at a pretty strong risk of a downgrade of
U.S. Treasuries even though it appears that we’ll avoid default
all together,” Pond, co-head of interest-rate strategy in New
York, said during an interview on “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan” on Bloomberg Television.  S&P, which has given the U.S. a top AAA ranking since 1941,
said on July 14 that the chance of a downgrade within three
months is 50 percent, and a reduction may occur as soon as
August if there isn’t a “credible” plan to reduce the nation’s
deficit.  John Chambers , chairman of S&P’s sovereign rating
committee, indicated last week that anything less than $4
trillion in cuts would jeopardize the rating.  Congressional leaders reached a agreement to raise the debt
ceiling by at least $2.1 trillion, sufficient to serve the
nation’s needs into 2013. Under the plan, $917 billion in
spending would be cut over a decade. A special committee would
be charged with finding another $1.5 trillion in deficit savings
by the year’s end. They confront an Aug. 2 deadline for approval
of the agreement.  Barclays expects the difference between yields on shorter-
and longer-maturity debt to increase, with shorter maturity debt
likely to gain on signs the economy is slowing, Pond said.  ‘Steepener Call’  “The economic data that we got on Friday and again this
morning from the ISM just reinforces that steepener call,”
Pond, who’s based in  New York , said.  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded at the slowest pace in
two years, indicating that the industry that’s been driving the
economic expansion is starting to weaken. The  Institute for
Supply Management ’s factory index fell to 50.9 percent in July
from 55.3 percent in June, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said
today.  Gross domestic product rose at a 1.3 percent annual rate in
the second quarter, following a 0.4 percent gain in the first
quarter that was less than estimated,  Commerce Department
figures showed July 29.  The gap in yields between two- and 10-year Treasury notes
declined seven basis points today to 237 basis points, or 2.37
percentage points, the narrowest level since November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New Yorkt ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 Mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  