-- 
U.S. Default Swaps Drop By Most in 18 Months on Debt Agreement

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-08-01T16:41:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/u-s-credit-default-swaps-decline-by-most-since-february-2010.html
Credit-default swaps on  U.S. debt 
fell by the most in almost 18 months after President  Barack Obama  said Congressional leaders reached an agreement to avoid
default.  Swaps insuring U.S. Treasuries for five years dropped 9
basis points to 53 as of 5 p.m. in London, according to CMA.  Credit-default swaps on the U.S. climbed to the highest
since March 2009 last week as trading volumes increased on
concern a failure to raise the debt ceiling by Aug. 2 could
delay bond payments. Last night’s compromise to raise the limit
by at least $2.1 trillion and slash  government spending  by $2.4
trillion may not be enough to satisfy  Standard & Poor’s , which
indicated last week that any cuts less than $4 trillion would
jeopardize the country’s top AAA rating.  “Any rally should be only short-lived as the solution of
the debt burden is still an open issue, and a downgrade of the
U.S. still remains in the cards,” said Stefan Kolek, a
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich.  The cost of one-year U.S. protection fell below the longer-
dated contracts today, after the so-called curve inverted last
week. The  U.S. Treasury  said it would run out of options for
avoiding default tomorrow without a plan to raise the borrowing
limit. Congressional leaders expressed optimism they would avoid
that risk -- however narrowly.  Bond Payments  If an agreement were not reached and the U.S. delayed bond
payments, a failure-to-pay  credit event  could be called after a
three-day grace period, according to David Geen, general counsel
for the International Swaps & derivatives Association. An
auction would then be held to settle credit-default swaps.  ISDA sets standards in the swaps market and runs the
committee of dealers and investors that determine when payouts
are made.  Trading of credit-default swaps on Treasuries soared almost
80 percent in the week through July 22, with contracts bought
and sold covering a daily average of $250 million of debt, up
from $140 million during the past month, according to the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  For all the concern about a default, yields on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note are less than 3 percent, below
the average of 4.05 percent over the last decade and less than
the average of 5.48 percent when the U.S. was running budget
surpluses between 1998 and 2001.  Swaps on the U.S. cover $4.9 billion of debt, just more
than the $4.6 billion total on  Greece , DTCC data show.  One-year credit-default swaps on the U.S. were at 40 basis
points today, according to CMA.  Europe  Swaps  In Europe, the cost of insuring corporate debt rose,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The Markit iTraxx Crossover
Index of 40 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings
increased 14 basis points to 452.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose 2.75 basis points to 119.25 basis
points. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt
of 25 banks and insurers rose 7 basis points to 184 and the
subordinated index climbed 8 to 318.5.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($14.4 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  