-- 
Ukraine Halts Mine Rescue Effort After 37 Die

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-08-01T09:07:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/ukraine-halts-rescue-effort-after-37-miners-die-in-accidents.html
Ukraine called off rescue efforts at
the two coal mines where 37 workers died last week in the
deadliest such accidents in the east European nation since 2007.  The authorities halted the operation at the Sukhodilska-
Skhidna mine, owned by the country’s richest man, Rinat Akhmetov, at 6 a.m. yesterday with two miners still missing, two
injured and 24 dead after a blast three days earlier, the
Emergency Ministry said on its  website . Eleven workers died and 
four were hurt the same day after a tower collapsed at the state
run Bazhanova mine in the city of Makiyvka, the ministry said.  The government, which controls mines accounting for about
half the nation’s coal output, is seeking to lure investments to
upgrade working facilities and make production more efficient.
Ukraine,  Europe ’s third-biggest supplier of coal after Russia
and  Poland , produced 75.2 million metric tons last year.  The coal industry is the deadliest in the country as 282
miners were killed in 2009 and 2010 and a further 10,139 were
left injured, according to government  data .  Miners were buried in Sukhodilsk and Makiyvka over the
weekend. Ukraine observed a national day of mourning yesterday.  Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  travelled to Makiyvka in the
eastern Donetsk region yesterday and President  Viktor Yanukovych 
visited Sukhodilsk in the Lugansk region, 810 kilometers (503
miles) southeast of the capital, Kiev, on July 29. The president
ordered the Prosecutor General’s Office to complete a probe into
both accidents by Aug. 10, according to the president’s  website .  A government commission, headed by Coal and Energy
Minister Yuriy Boyko, is investigating the explosion at
Sukhodilsk and the accident in Makiyvka.  The Sukhodilska mine is operated by  VAT Krasnodonvuhillya ,
Ukraine’s second-largest mining company and a unit of Akhmetov’s
Metinvest, the country’s largest steelmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  