-- 
Mumbai Home Sales Drop to 30-Month Low With Record Number of Unsold Units

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-08-02T08:23:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/mumbai-home-sales-drop-to-30-month-low-with-record-number-of-unsold-units.html
Mumbai’s residential sales dropped to
a 30-month low in the quarter ended June as record home prices
and higher  interest rates  crimped demand, according to Liases
Foras Real Estate Rating & Research Pvt.  Sales in Mumbai,  India ’s most expensive  property market ,
fell 11 percent from the previous quarter to 8 million square
feet, the lowest since the three months ended December 2008,
said Pankaj Kapoor, founder of  Liases Foras . The number of
unsold homes also rose to a record, he said.  “This clearly shows the inefficiency in the market, that
the developer will have to lower prices to increase sales,”
Kapoor said in an interview in Mumbai yesterday. “The market
has become off-balance.”  India’s central bank, which has increased rates 11 times
since March 2010, may add another half a point to the benchmark
borrowing cost by the end of 2011, the median of 11 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey showed. The bank increased the
repurchase rate to 8 percent from 7.5 percent on July 26.  Mumbai land prices may fall as much as 30 percent over the
next year as higher borrowing costs force some indebted
developers to sell real estate,  Oberoi Realty Ltd. (OBER)  Chairman
Vikas Oberoi said. He expects a “cash crunch” within the real
estate industry with higher interest rates.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Realty Index declined 2.5
percent as of 1:51 a.m. in Mumbai to the lowest since June 29.
The benchmark Sensitive Index lost 1.4 percent.  Unsold Homes  The city’s unsold inventory climbed to 40 months, according
to Liases Foras, a Mumbai real estate research company whose
clients include  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , India’s
largest mortgage lender. A healthy market normally maintains
about eight to 10 months of inventory, according to the report.  Unsold stock climbed to 108 million square feet, while the
weighted average price of homes increased to a record 9,716
rupees ($220) a square foot. Unsold stock represents unsold
units of projects that are being marketed, Kapoor said.  Mumbai home-sale registrations fell to the lowest level in
two years in June as higher rates and  home prices  curbed demand,
according to broker Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt.  Sales in Delhi and its surrounding areas declined 19
percent to 22 million square feet in the quarter from the
previous three months, while unsold units are at a record 220
million square feet, Liases Foras said.  The weighted average selling price in the capital city rose
to 3,131 rupees a square feet, 17 percent higher than the March
quarter, Kapoor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net 
Mumbai Home Sales Drop to 30-Month Low as Unsold Units at Record 