-- 
UN Security Council Will Meet Today to Discuss Syria Violence, U.K. Says

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-08-01T14:05:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/un-security-council-will-meet-today-to-discuss-syria-violence-hague-says.html
The  United Nations Security Council 
prepared to meet to discuss a German call for a “clear
condemnation” of Syria after the security forces killed more
than 150 people in a crackdown on anti-government protests.  The army’s attacks on Hama, Syria’s fourth-largest city,
demonstrate a “new quality” to the government’s clampdown,
highlighting President Bashar al-Assad’s “machinery of
repression,” German Foreign Ministry spokesman Martin Schaefer
told reporters in Berlin today. The council will meet at 5 p.m.
in  New York , the German mission to the UN said.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said that securing a
resolution condemning the violence will be “difficult work.”
 China  and Russia have been blocking a U.S.- and European-backed
draft in the 15-member body since late May. The attack on Hama,
accounting for the bulk of the deaths in the past 24 hours, is
one of the bloodiest episodes in the uprising that began more
than four months ago.  Government forces resumed their assault on Hama today on
the first day of the holy Muslim month of Ramadan, shelling it
early this morning and destroying four buildings, while
also attacking the eastern city of Deir al-Zour and the town of
Bukamal, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Damascus-based Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said by telephone.  At least 10 people were killed today, Merhi said, while
Syrian state television said yesterday an army colonel and two
other soldiers were killed by armed men in Deir al-Zour.  ‘Legitimate Grievances’  “I would like to see a United Nations  Security Council 
resolution to condemn this violence, to call for the release of
political prisoners and to call for legitimate grievances to be
responded to,” Hague told BBC Radio 4. “We want to see
stronger international pressure all round.”  Germany  wants the UN to send a “clear message” to Assad
that such action is unacceptable, Schaefer said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  condemns the violence “in
the strongest possible terms,” deputy government spokesman
Christoph Steegmans told the Berlin briefing. Merkel calls on
the Syrian government to allow peaceful demonstrations and the
right to protest, he said.  Daily Rallies  The latest assault came as opposition forces vowed to step
up their campaign against Assad during Ramadan. Family and
community groups typically gather for evening meals during the
month to break their fasts and more people attend special
services at mosques. That may make it easier for opposition
leaders to organize daily rallies along the lines of those held
for the past four months after Friday prayers.  The government “has been very frightened by Ramadan’s
onset,” Joshua Landis, a  Syria  specialist who directs the Center
for Middle East Studies at the University of Oklahoma in Norman,
said in a telephone interview. “The unfolding crackdown is going
to fuel people’s anger.”  Oil advanced from a two-week low in New York. Crude for
September delivery rose as much as $1.85 to $97.55 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and was
at $96.73 at 1:05 p.m. London time.  UN-sanctioned military action against Syria is unlikely and
the international community will need to work with the limited
tools it has available to influence the regime’s actions, Hague
said.  ‘Very Frustrating’  “There is no prospect of a legal, morally sanctioned
military intervention; therefore we have to concentrate on other
ways of influencing the Assad regime and trying to help the
situation in Syria,” Hague told the  BBC . “It is a very
frustrating situation. The levers that we have in this situation
are relatively limited but we should be frank in admitting that
and then working with the ones that we have.”  Russia and China, which have a veto in the Security
Council, had previously refused to back a resolution condemning
Syria, while  India ,  South Africa  and  Brazil  were also opposed,
the German Foreign Ministry said.  “It remains to be seen whether in view of the new quality
of violence at the weekend those partners will change” their
views, said Schaefer, the ministry spokesman.  The Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement posted on
its website today that the use of force by both sides in Syria
is unacceptable and must end.  ‘No Real Change’  “There is no real change in the Russian position on Syria,
but this statement serves as a kind of insurance policy for
Moscow to take further steps at the UN,”  Fyodor Lukyanov , an
analyst at the Council on Foreign and Defense Policy in Moscow,
said by telephone. “More than this we can hardly expect, as
nobody wants to end up with the sort of mess that happened in
 Libya ,” where  Russia  allowed western countries to go ahead with
military intervention.  “ France  firmly condemns the violence that has been
perpetrated in Syria and has told Syria’s military and political
leaders that they will be held accountable,” Budget Minister
Valerie Pecresse, who acts as the government spokeswoman, told a
news conference after the Cabinet met in Paris. “We hope that
the UN Security Council will condemn these acts.”  At least 2,000 protesters have been killed since the
demonstrations began in mid-March, according to Merhi and Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human Rights.  The unrest poses the biggest challenge to Assad’s rule
since he inherited power from his father, Hafez al-Assad,
11 years ago. Assad has blamed the protests on foreign-
inspired plots, while conceding that some demonstrators
have legitimate demands and pledging political changes.  The European Union imposed an asset freeze and travel ban
on five Syrians “responsible for and associated with
repression,”  Catherine Ashton , the EU’s foreign-policy chief,
said in an e-mailed statement, without identifying the people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  