-- 
Turkey Not Helping India Settle Oil Debt to Iran, Mehr Says

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-08-01T12:22:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/turkey-not-helping-india-settle-oil-debt-to-iran-mehr-says-2-.html
Turkey  is playing “no role” in
settling the debt  India  owes to  Iran  for supplies of crude oil,
Iranian Central Bank Governor Mahmoud Bahmani said, according to
the state-run Mehr news agency.  In a sign of a lack of consensus among Iranian officials,
Bahmani’s statement was contradicted later today by Iran’s
ambassador to India Mehdi Nabizadeh, who said his country has
held talks with Turkey in an effort to solve the payments
problem, Mehr reported in a separate article.  Iran is constrained by international sanctions over its
nuclear program, and Indian refiners say banks are unwilling to
transfer payments for their purchases of the Persian nation’s
oil. India owes $5 billion for crude, Bahmani said July 18. Iran
is the second-largest oil producer in OPEC after  Saudi Arabia .  Several refiners in India have opened accounts with state-
owned Union Bank of India Ltd. to route money through a lender
in Turkey, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said
on July 29. The people, who declined to be identified because
they weren’t authorized to speak to the media, didn’t disclose
the name of the Turkish bank.  Bahmani, who rejected accounts of Turkey’s involvement,
said Iran will manage to clear the debts “by itself.” He gave
no details, in the  first Mehr report  published today.  ‘Substantial Negotiations’  Iranian officials “had substantial negotiations with
Indians regarding the settlement of debts, and the issue has
been resolved,” Bahmani said, according to Mehr. “I can say
with certainty that we have no problem regarding the clearing of
the debts.”  Nabizadeh, however, said Iranian and Indian officials
“have initiated talks with two to three other countries
including Turkey to try and solve the issue,” according to the
 second Mehr report . “If the issue is resolved through Turkey,
there will be no need to further talks with the two other
nations.”  Iran’s Oil Ministry said yesterday the payments dispute has
been resolved. India agreed that “part of the debts will be
cleared in coming days and the rest of the payments will be made
gradually,” the ministry’s news website Shana cited National
Iranian Oil Co. Managing Director Ahmad Qalebani as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Stanley at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net  