-- 
Vornado Second-Quarter FFO Rises 19% on Lexington Realty, LNR Investments

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-08-01T22:26:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/vornado-second-quarter-ffo-rises-19-on-lexington-realty-lnr-investments.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , the fourth-
biggest U.S. real estate investment trust, said second-quarter
funds from operations rose 19 percent as it booked gains on
investments in LNR Property Corp. and Lexington Realty Trust.  FFO, which gauges a property company’s ability to generate
cash, increased to $243.4 million, or $1.27 a share, from $204.8
million, or $1.11, a year earlier, the New York-based company
said today in a  statement  posted on its website. Vornado was
expected to have FFO of $1.13 a share, the average estimate of
nine analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  LNR is the largest specialist in resolving delinquent loans
that are packaged into bonds, also known as a special servicer.
Vornado also holds about 12 percent of the shares of  Lexington
Realty Trust (LXP) , a REIT that focuses on single-tenant properties.
Together they produced $14.3 million of second-quarter income,
compared with none a year earlier.  “Lexington has been a meaningful outperformer of late,
with a 45 percent total return since Dec. 31, 2009, versus 36
percent for the REIT sector,” Andrew Rosivach, an analyst with
Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a July 19 report. “This
movement is significant as Vornado does not see itself as a
long-term holder of the stock.”  The company holds a 26 percent interest in LNR, according
to Rosivach, who has a “neutral” rating on Vornado. He said
Vornado has estimated that the loan servicer will generate $12
million of earnings before taxes and other items per year.  J.C. Penney Loss  Vornado recorded a $6.8 million loss in the second quarter
on its shares of J.C Penney Co., the Plano, Texas-based
department store chain. J.C. Penney shares fell 3.8 percent in
the second quarter.  The REIT gets about half of its earnings before taxes and
other items from its office buildings in New York and
 Washington , where it is among the largest office landlords.
Rental revenue from its properties in both cities declined in
the quarter. In New York, rent revenue was $209.2 million, down
1.2 percent, while in Washington, it was $141.6 million, down 2
percent.  Office rents in the U.S. capital have fallen for two
straight quarters following a 10 percent rise from June 2009,
according to data from Cushman & Wakefield Inc., a New York-
based brokerage.  Washington Offices  Washington’s office market has been hurt by the debate over
the federal debt ceiling and budget cuts, said Alexander Goldfarb, an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP.  “It’s not to say the market is going negative, but it’s no
longer full throttle,” Goldfarb, who has a “hold” rating on
Vornado, said in a phone interview before the earnings report.
“The throttle has been pulled back almost to neutral.”  Total revenue was $730.2 million, up 6.7 percent from a
year earlier. About $32 million of the increase is related to
Vornado’s Cleveland Medical Mart project, of which $29.9 million
is offset by development costs, Vornado said in a regulatory
filing made today.  FFO after adjustments to remove items that are not
comparable from quarter to quarter was $235.2 million, or $1.23
a share, up from $214.8 million, or $1.16, a year earlier. Those
figures don’t include the LNR and Lexington gains, or the J.C.
Penney loss.  FFO, used by REITs, doesn’t conform to generally accepted
accounting principles.  Vornado fell $1.24 to $92.31 as of 4:15 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has gained 11
percent this year, compared with a 7.4 percent increase in the
Bloomberg REIT Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  