-- 
Votorantim to Raise $768 Million for Brazilian Energy Funds

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-08-01T21:29:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/votorantim-to-raise-768-million-for-brazilian-energy-funds-1-.html
Banco Votorantim SA, the financial-
services unit of Votorantim Group, is seeking to raise as much
as 1.2 billion reais ($768 million) for three Brazilian private-
equity funds that will invest in renewable-energy projects as
the nation seeks to diversify its power supply.  The funds will invest predominantly in small hydroelectric
projects, biomass plants and wind farms, Sao Paulo-based
Votorantim said today in a  prospectus .  Brazil  is holding yearly auctions for power contracts with
renewable-energy developers to help diversify its grid from
large hydroelectric dams and fossil fuels. The next two are
scheduled for Aug. 17 and 18.  “Renewable energy is in fashion at the moment,” Jorge
Trinkenreich, director of Rio de Janeiro-based consulting firm
PSR Consultoria, said today over the phone. “Brazil’s auctions
have led to a rapid expansion in new types of energy projects,
especially wind projects.”  Other technologies under consideration by the fund include
photovoltaic solar energy projects and biogas plants, according
to the filing.  The funds will be managed by Votorantim Asset Management
Distribuidora de Titulos e Valores Mobiliarios Ltda., a unit of
Banco Votorantim SA, according to the filing.  The minimum amount of money Votorantim expects to raise for
all three funds is 500 million reais, according to the filing.  The offering will be coordinated by the fund-managing arm
of Rio de Janeiro-based  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  and Banco Votorantim,
according to the filing. It will commence on Sept. 1 and close
on Oct. 31, Votorantim said.  About 68 percent of Brazil’s 115 gigawatts of power
capacity comes from large hydroelectric plants while 26 percent
is generated by fossil fuel-powered thermoelectric plants,
according to electricity regulator Agencia Nacional de Energia
Eletrica.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in London at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  