-- 
Wallabies Omit Sharpe, Giteau From Rugby Squad for Test Against All Blacks

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-02T06:58:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/wallabies-omit-giteau-sharpe-from-rugby-squad-for-test-against-all-blacks.html
Australia  will take on  New Zealand  in
this week’s Tri-Nations rugby Test without its two most
experienced players after Nathan Sharpe and Matt Giteau were
left off the 24-man match squad.  Sharpe, who’s played 95 Tests, wasn’t among the four locks
picked for the Aug. 6 game in Auckland as selectors recalled Dan Vickerman and Sitaleki Timani alongside James Horwill and Rob
Simmons. The team will be named in two days.  “A few guys have missed out but that just shows you how
healthy the depth is,” Wallabies fly-half  Quade Cooper  told
reporters in televised comments. “Over the last few weeks at
training everyone has been fighting for a spot.”  Giteau, the most-capped back in the Wallabies 40-man roster
with 92 Test appearances, was again excluded after being dropped
following last month’s upset loss to Samoa. The touring group
includes 20 of the 22 players from the win over  South Africa  in
the July 23 Tri-Nations opener. Australia’s 30-man Rugby  World
Cup  squad is scheduled to be announced Aug. 18.  The other player to drop out is scrum-half Nick Phipps, who
makes way for Luke Burgess. Winger Lachie Turner was also called
up after impressing in club matches.  Australia and New Zealand are tied on five points atop the
Tri-Nations standings following bonus-point victories over a
second-string Springboks team.  The top-ranked All Blacks are undefeated at Auckland’s Eden
Park since 1994. The stadium will host this year’s World Cup
final on Oct. 23.  AUSTRALIA SQUAD: Ben Alexander, Adam Ashley-Cooper, Kurtley
Beale, Luke Burgess, Quade Cooper, Pekahou Cowan, Rocky Elsom
(captain), Anthony Fainga’a, Saia Fainga’a, Will Genia, Scott
Higginbotham, Matt Hodgson, James Horwill, Digby Ioane, Sekope
Kepu, Pat McCabe, Ben McCalman, Stephen Moore, James O’Connor,
David Pocock,  Rob Simmons , Sitaleki Timani, Lachie Turner, Dan
Vickerman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  