-- 
Walter Bau, Marco Polo Seatrade, Lehman, A-Tec: Europe, Asia Bankruptcy

-- B y   A n t h o n y   A a r o n s
-- 
2011-08-01T11:12:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/walter-bau-marco-polo-seatrade-lehman-a-tec-europe-asia-bankruptcy.html
Thailand’s Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn will use his personal funds to recover an
airplane seized by German liquidators in Munich last month as
part of a bankruptcy dispute.  Werner Schneider, the insolvency administrator for builder
 Walter Bau AG (WTB) , seized a  Boeing 737  belonging to the crown prince
on July 11 to force payment on a 30 million-euro ($43.3 million)
claim against the Thai state, the company said last month.  The crown prince “has no connection with the dispute
between the Thai government and Walter Bau, and didn’t cause the
dispute,” the crown prince’s secretariat said in a statement
late yesterday. “To avoid any impact to the good relationship
between Thailand and  Germany  and to end the dispute on good
terms and in an expeditious manner, the crown prince will
provide his personal funds to end the dispute.”  A 2009  decision  by the United Nations Commission on
International Trade Law, or Uncitral, ordered  Thailand  to pay
Walter Bau more than 30 million euros for breaching a bilateral
investment treaty between Germany and Thailand. The order found
that Thailand’s government breached the terms of a toll road
concession operated by a venture partly owned by Walter Bau.  A Berlin court ruled on July 20 that Thailand must deposit
20 million euros to secure the release of the aircraft,
according to the crown prince’s statement.
The crown prince’s statement didn’t say how much will be paid.
He is the only son of head of state  King Bhumibol Adulyadej .
Thai law imposes a jail sentence of up to 15 years for defaming,
insulting or threatening the king, queen, heir apparent or
regent.  Marco Polo Seatrade Files for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy in  New York   Marco Polo Seatrade BV, a manager of funds, trusts and
foundations, filed for bankruptcy court protection in New York.  The Amsterdam-based company listed both assets and debt of
$100 million to $500 million in Chapter 11 documents filed July
29 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  Affiliates  Seaarland Shipping Management BV , Magellano
Marine CV and Cargoship Maritime BV also sought court
protection.  Falm International Holding BV owns 100 percent of the
equity of Marco Polo, court papers show.  The case is In re Marco Polo Seatrade BV, 11-bk-13634, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Bundesbank Loses U.K. Bid to Seize Assets in Lehman CDO Deal  Germany’s central bank lost its bid to take control of a
2.9 billion-euro ($4.2 billion) securitization set up by  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  just before its collapse.  Judge Michael Briggs on July 29 ruled Excalibur Funding No.
1 wasn’t in default for long enough to allow the senior
noteholder, the Bundesbank, to wrest control away from Lehman.  Excalibur was created by Lehman in May 2008 when the U.S.
bank packaged together a group of loans and collateralized debt
obligations. New York-based Lehman filed for bankruptcy three
months later listing assets of $639 billion.  Under the rules of the Excalibur agreement, if the special
purpose vehicle was found to be in default, management of its
assets would pass to the Bundesbank as holder of 2.1 billion
euros of its senior debt. Lawyers for Lehman, which holds 722
million euros of Excalibur’s junior debt, argued Excalibur had
enough cash to meet its obligations.  Magnus Makela, a spokesman for the Bundesbank, said the
central bank came to own the Excalibur notes because they were
used as collateral on a loan for a German subsidiary of Lehman,
which followed its parent into bankruptcy.  The central bank won’t comment further until it’s examined
the ruling in detail, Makela said.  Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman, declined to
comment.  While there was a default on Jan. 25, it didn’t continue
beyond Jan. 28, Justice Briggs said in his ruling. He granted
all parties permission to appeal his decision.  Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC, which gave
Excalibur’s senior notes an ‘A’ rating when the security was
issued in 2008, warned in November the vehicle didn’t have
enough income to pay interest on the junior notes held by Lehman
and that senior noteholders were unlikely to be repaid in full.  In the latest of a series of downgrades, it lowered
Excalibur’s rating to ‘D’ in March.  Pakistani Investor Fiyaz is Third A-Tec Suitor, Oesterreich Says  Pakistani investor Alshair Fiyaz is the third bidder for A-
Tec Industries AG, the insolvent Austrian machinery group, daily
newspaper Oesterreich reported, citing banking sources.  Fiyaz’s investment company ALFI joined Czech Penta
Investments and hedge fund Springwater in bidding for the
company, Vienna-based Oesterreich said.  Tokyo  Electric Power Shouldn’t Enter Bankruptcy, Kaieda Says  Japan ’s Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  said it isn’t
“appropriate” for Tokyo Electric Power Co. to enter bankruptcy
proceedings. Tokyo Electric isn’t expected to become insolvent
for now, Kaieda told upper house lawmakers in Tokyo. There are
“various possibilities” in dealing with the company in the
future, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 