-- 
WellPoint, HCA Drop on Concern Debt Agreement May Lead to Cuts in Medicare

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-08-01T20:39:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/wellpoint-hca-decline-on-fears-of-debt-deal-s-impact-on-medicare-health.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the largest insurer
by enrollment, HCA Holdings Inc., the biggest hospital chain,
and  Kindred Healthcare Inc. (KND) , the top nursing home operator,
dropped in trading after President  Barack Obama  announced a
debt-reduction deal that may lead to Medicare cuts.  Under the plan, Medicare may face across-the-board
reductions when a bipartisan congressional committee meets to
trim $1.5 trillion from the deficit by Thanksgiving. If
deadlocked, the committee must divide the cuts evenly among
defense and domestic programs. The reduction in Medicare, the
U.S. health plan for the elderly and disabled, would be aimed at
provider payments, not benefits.  The index of hospital companies including HCA, based in
Nashville, Tennessee, fell 6.1 percent at 4:01 p.m.  New York 
time, compared with a decline of less than 1 percent in the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index. The index of the 15 largest
managed-care companies dropped 3.4 percent, while the index of
the biggest drugmakers was down 1.2 percent.  “It is a combination of the Medicare proposals in the
debt-ceiling deal and profit taking given earnings,”  Ana Gupte ,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in a
telephone interview.  Reductions in Medicare automatically triggered under the
plan would be limited to 2 percent of the program’s total cost.  ‘Arbitrary Cuts’  “We cannot support the Budget Control Act of 2011 because
it sets in motion billions of dollars in arbitrary Medicare
funding cuts,” said Chip Kahn, president and chief executive
officer of the Federation of American Hospitals in Washington,
representing for-profit chains. “The act rhetorically protects
seniors, but this protection is illusory.”  Peter Carmel, the president of the  American Medical
Association , said he anticipates the Medicare physician payment
will be among the issues the new commission will address.  “Everyone agrees that a 30 percent cut in payments to
those who care for Medicare patients would hurt seniors’ access
to the health care they need and deserve,” Carmel said in a
statement.  Nursing homes began dropping Friday after Medicare released
plans to cut $3.87 billion in payments to facilities, saying
they had been overpaid in the past. Kindred plummeted 29 percent
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the largest
single-day drop for the Louisville, Kentucky-based nursing home
company in almost three years.  Clear Reaction  “The market is clearly reacting to news that Medicare will
be cut in the second round, but we believe the 2 percent limit,
the language of which is quite strong, is significantly less
than the market appears to be discounting intraday, said  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst with CRT Capital Group in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “The Medicare cuts could have been much worse, in
particular for hospitals who have already given up $155 billion
over 10 years.”  Providers and companies will have ample opportunity to
lobby the commission given its set-up, Skolnick said.  WellPoint declined $2.11, or 3.1 percent, to $65.44 while
HCA fell $1.74, or 6.5 percent, to $24.94.  Insurers and hospitals led the losses as investors decided
to take profits in stocks that had performed well since the
beginning of the year, Gupte said.  The health insurance stocks have gained 27 percent this
year versus 2.4 percent for the S&P and hospital stocks have
increased about 21 percent. Pharmaceutical manufacturers are up
about 4.8 percent for the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in  Washington  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  