-- 
Wheat Futures Rebound on Bets U.S. Debt Accord May Spur Commodity Demand

-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 
2011-08-01T19:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/wheat-rises-most-in-a-week-as-u-s-debt-accord-boosts-prospects-for-demand.html
Wheat futures rose for the first time
in three sessions on speculation that U.S. lawmakers will reach
an agreement to raise the nation’s debt ceiling before the
deadline tomorrow, easing concern that commodity demand will
dwindle.  Democratic and Republican leaders in the U.S. House and
Senate agreed to a compromise that would raise the debt ceiling
by at least $2.1 trillion and cut the federal deficit by $2.4
trillion or more.  “It looks like the debt-ceiling debate is over, and
everything seems to have a little bit better tone to it,”  Jason Britt , the president of Central States Commodities Inc., a
broker in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , said in a telephone interview.
Wheat and other raw materials “have been getting their strings
pulled by outside markets,” he said.  Wheat futures for December delivery rose 5 cents, or 0.7
percent, to close at $7.2075 a bushel at 1:40 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. The price dropped 4 percent in the
previous two sessions. The most-active contract has gained 9
percent in the past year.  Parts of  North Dakota  got more than 6 inches (15
centimeters) of rain overnight, and winds were as high as 60
miles per hour, according to the  National Weather Service . The
state is the largest U.S. wheat grower.  “The debt talk is a big deal, but hopefully we can get
back to fundamentals,” Britt said. Wheat prices may rise as
debt woes fade, he said.  The U.S. is the world’s leading wheat exporter. The grain
is the nation’s fourth-largest crop, valued at $13 billion in
2010, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in Chicago at 
 bchappatta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  