-- 
Wisconsin District Attorney Investigates Claim of Judge-on-Judge Chokehold

-- B y   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-08-15T19:49:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/wisconsin-district-attorney-wants-prosecutor-to-review-high-court-incident.html
The district attorney of  Wisconsin ’s
Sauk County will probe the alleged assault of one state supreme
court justice by another on the day before the panel upheld a
law restricting collective bargaining.  The incident allegedly took place June 13 at the court in
Madison, the seat of Dane County. The next day, it reinstated
the legislation, which applies to state employees.  Dane County District Attorney Ismael Ozanne, who filed the
suit that led to the ruling, had sought the appointment of a
special prosecutor to investigate the incident involving
Justices David Prosser and Ann Walsh Bradley. Bradley  accused 
Prosser of putting her in a chokehold, a claim Prosser denied,
according to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.  Ozanne cited a report from the office of Sheriff David
Mahoney in making his request to  Dane County  Chief Judge C.
William Foust, who announced the appointment today of Patricia
Barrett, a Republican. She declined to comment on her selection.  Prosser and Bradley couldn’t be immediately reached. Tom
Sheehan, a spokesman for the state supreme court, said Prosser
“is not able to comment” and Bradley isn’t available to
comment.  Ozanne, a Democrat, challenged Republican Governor  Scott Walker ’s collective-bargaining legislation in a suit filed in
March asserting Republican legislators violated the Open
Meetings Law, invalidating the adoption by the state senate.  Doesn’t Apply  In its ruling, a majority of the supreme court agreed the
Open Meetings Law doesn’t apply to the legislature. Prosser, the
alleged attacker, concurred with the majority decision and
Bradley, the alleged victim, dissented in part.  Mahoney’s report on the alleged incident between the
justices, delivered to Ozanne July 28, makes no recommendations
on charges, a police spokeswoman said. Ozanne didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment on Barrett’s appointment.  Barrett, who has served as  district attorney  since
1995, announced in January that she wouldn’t be seeking re-
election when her term expires in 2013, according to Tom Silberg
of the Wisconsin State Bar Association.  A native of  Pennsylvania , Barrett graduated from the
University of Wisconsin Law School in 1986. She made an
unsuccessful run in 2000 for circuit judge in Sauk County, whose
seat is Baraboo, about 30 miles northwest of Madison.  “The main concern for us was that we would not be involved
in the decision in this case because of our involvement,”
Ozanne said in an interview about why he sought a special
prosecutor. ‘I thought this office could be fair in handling it
but we needed to avoid any false perception.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Rohde in Milwaukee at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 