-- 
Yen Falls on Prospects Japan to Intervene; Aussie Drops as RBA Holds Rates

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-08-02T05:55:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/yen-declines-on-speculation-japan-will-weaken-currency-to-support-exports.html
The yen fell against most of its
major peers after gains to the brink of a record against the
dollar stoked speculation  Japan  will intervene in  currency
markets .  The yen dropped against the euro for the first time in five
days after Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said the
nation’s currency is overvalued and he’s watching markets
closely. The Swiss franc advanced for a fourth day against the
greenback amid concern spending cuts agreed to by U.S. lawmakers
will damp growth.  Australia ’s currency slid after the nation’s
Reserve Bank held its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged, citing
global uncertainty.  “The strength of the yen is getting to the point where it
requires intervention in some form,” said  Robert Rennie , chief
currency strategist in Sydney at Westpac Banking Corp.
Speculation that Japan will intervene “is a story, and the fact
that the dollar-yen has bounced a bit tells you that the market
is listening to the stories.”  The yen weakened to 110.31 per euro as of 6:45 a.m. in
 London  from 110.03 in  New York  yesterday. It dropped to 77.44
per dollar from 77.21. Japan’s currency reached 76.30 versus the
greenback yesterday, the strongest level since it set a postwar
record of 76.25 on March 17.  The Swiss franc climbed to 78.15 centimes per dollar from
78.36 yesterday, when it touched an all-time high of 77.31. The
franc fetched 1.1133 per euro from 1.1165 yesterday, when it
touched a record 1.1028. The 17-nation euro was at $1.4246 from
$1.4250.  Export Concerns  Japanese officials are concerned that the yen’s strength
will hurt domestic companies and undermine the nation’s recovery
from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, the Nikkei newspaper
reported, without saying where it got the information. Noda
declined to comment on possible currency intervention when
speaking to reporters in  Tokyo  today.  Bank of Japan  officials in the past week have voiced more
concern about the currency, with board member  Hidetoshi Kamezaki 
saying the central bank would need to act “proactively” should
the yen’s gains pose a threat to growth and prices. The BOJ is
set to meet on policy this week.  Japan last intervened on March 18, joining Group of Seven
counterparts in selling the yen a day after it jumped to a
record against the dollar.  “BOJ intervention in the past has only slowed the pace of
JPY appreciation,” BNP Paribas SA analysts including New York-
based head of currency strategy for North America Ray Attrill
wrote in a research note dated yesterday. “If the BOJ does
intervene the result may be the same unless it is complemented
by monetary easing.”  Debt Accord  Demand for the dollar was limited on concern an agreement
between President  Barack Obama  and Congressional leaders on
raising the debt ceiling and spending cuts will weigh on growth
in the world’s biggest economy. The House approved legislation
to raise the U.S. debt limit by at least $2.1 trillion and cut
federal spending by $2.4 trillion or more. The measure goes to
the Senate for a final vote planned today.  “Looking ahead, people will be wondering whether the debt
agreement will work, and spending cuts may weigh on growth,”
said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency dealer at Okasan
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The dollar won’t switch to a real
upward trend.”  U.S. personal income increased 0.2 percent in June after
gaining 0.3 percent in May, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before today’s data.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to
50.9 in July, the lowest since July 2009, from 55.3 the prior
month, data showed yesterday. Economists in a Bloomberg News
survey projected it would drop to 54.5.  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, rose 0.1 percent
to 74.348 after gaining 0.6 percent yesterday.  The franc has gained 7.8 percent over the past month,
making it the best performer among 10 major-economy currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has
risen 3.2 percent, while the dollar is down 1.6 percent and the
euro has declined 3.8 percent.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  held the
overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent in Sydney for a
record eighth-straight meeting, saying “the board remains
concerned about the medium-term outlook for inflation.” He cited
“the acute sense of uncertainty” in financial markets as a key
factor for inaction.  “Clearly it’s bearish for the Aussie dollar,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., a
unit of the world’s biggest interdealer broker. “They’re citing
concerns over global growth. These concerns aren’t going away. I
think it’s quite reasonable that we don’t get another rate hike
until well into 2012.”  The so-called Aussie fell to $1.0924 from $1.0971
yesterday, after rising as high as $1.1008. The currency dropped
0.2 percent to 84.55 yen after rising as much as 1.1 percent
earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 