-- 
Yen’s Surge Threatens to Wipe Out Japan’s Recovery From Quake

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   L i l y   N o n o m i y a
-- 
2011-08-02T09:11:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-01/yen-s-surge-threatens-to-wipe-out-japan-s-recovery-from-quake.html
The yen’s biggest monthly advance
since 2008 is threatening profits of exporters from  Nissan Motor 
Co. to Sony Corp., endangering the nation’s rebound from March’s
record earthquake.  The currency was at 77.41 per dollar at 6:04 p.m. in Tokyo,
7 percent higher than the 82.59 average exporters used in profit
forecasts in a Bank of  Japan  survey released last month. Toyota
Motor Corp. sees a yen stronger than 80 as a brake on growth and
Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today the yen is overvalued.  Japan’s “Mr. Yen,” former top currency official Eisuke Sakakibara, forecasts it will climb as high as 75 after already
reaching a postwar record of 76.25 in March. With reconstruction
efforts bogged down in political wrangling, the yen’s advance
may add pressure on Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  to quit and push
the Bank of Japan to inject more money into the economy.  “The strong yen is the biggest uncertainty facing Japan’s
economic recovery,” said Eiji Hirano, a former BOJ executive
director and now executive vice president at Toyota Financial
Services Corp. “Japanese companies were doing all they could to
get back on their feet, helping the nation rebound faster than
expected -- the strong yen could kill all of the optimism that
was built up on that.”  Sakakibara, who spoke in Tokyo last week, didn’t provide a
timeframe for his projection. He directed exchange-rate policy
at the Ministry of Finance between 1997 and 1999 and became
known as Mr. Yen because of his efforts to influence the
currency’s rate through comments and intervention.  Intervention Risk  Noda declined to comment on intervention when asked at a
press conference in  Tokyo  whether the government would sell the
yen to stem its gain. The Nikkei newspaper reported today that
Japanese officials are preparing to sell the yen, without citing
a source for the information. The BOJ may also weigh easing
monetary policy at an Aug. 4-5 board meeting, the newspaper said.  Authorities stepped in unilaterally last year for the first
time since 2004 after the yen surged to its highest since 1995.
They did so again in March, this time in a coordinated operation
with the Group of Seven, when it appreciated more than 3 percent
in the week following the quake to a postwar high of 76.25.  The Japanese currency’s strengthening past 80 yen to the
dollar is slowing the nation’s economic recovery, Toyota Motor
President  Akio Toyoda  said on July 19. The Toyota City, Japan-
based company today raised its full-year profit forecast 39
percent to 390 billion yen because of a faster-than-anticipated
recovery from the aftermath of the earthquake, when factories
were shut.  Eroding Profits  A stronger yen cut Toyota’s operating profit by 50 billion
yen, the company said today. Its quarterly results were based on
82 yen to the dollar and 117 yen to the euro. For the year, the
company is basing its full-year forecasts on 80 yen to the
dollar and 116 yen to the euro.  Sony, Japan’s largest exporter of consumer electronics,
slashed its profit estimate by 25 percent, citing lower demand
for its televisions in  Europe . It also cut its sales projections
because of the higher yen.  Nissan Motor is worried about the impact of the currency’s
appreciation on jobs, Corporate Vice President Joji Tagawa said
on July 27. The company said the stronger currency shaved its
operating profit by 55 billion yen ($715 million) in the quarter
ended June 30.  “We’re at our limit,” Tagawa said before more gains that
took the yen’s advance for July to about 5 percent.  BOJ Concern  BOJ officials in the past week have voiced more concern
about the currency, with board member  Hidetoshi Kamezaki  saying
the bank would need to act “proactively” should the yen’s
gains pose a threat to growth and prices. The stronger currency,
in addition to a nationwide power shortage triggered by nuclear
plant shutdowns since March, may encourage companies to move
factories and jobs out of the country, he said.  “If this becomes a trend, it’ll likely accelerate the
shift of production overseas,” said  Kyohei Morita , chief
economist at  Barclays Capital  in Tokyo, referring to the
appreciating currency. Lack of action by authorities “is just
another sign that Japan has no strategy to revive its industries,
a great contrast with nations like  South Korea , where the
government clearly supports industries.”  The fallout from the stronger yen may dilute the
government’s efforts to rebuild the nation after the natural
disaster left more than 20,000 dead or missing. Kan last week
pledged 19 trillion yen in outlays over five years for
reconstruction.  Smaller Impact  The effect of the earthquake-relief stimulus “will be
smaller if the yen continues to stay at this level given that
corporate sentiment will cool and that will lead to sluggish
capital spending and hiring,” said  Masamichi Adachi , a senior
economist at JPMorgan Chase and a former  Bank of Japan  official.  Efforts to roll out more  government spending  to spur growth
have been hampered by rising calls from ruling and opposition
lawmakers for Kan to step down. The prime minister’s approval
rating slid to 19 percent last month compared with about 70
percent when he took office in June 2010, according to a survey
by Nikkei newspaper and TV Tokyo between July 29-31.  Gross domestic product for the year ending March would be
cut by 0.8 percentage point if the yen trades at an average of
75 per dollar in the second half of the fiscal year, according
to Toshihiro Nagahama, chief economist in Tokyo at Dai-Ichi Life
Research Institute, the research arm of Japan’s second-largest
life insurer. Nomura Holdings Inc. estimates that growth will be
reduced by 0.24 percentage point with the yen at that level and
0.49 point if it trades around 70.  Growth Outlook  The central bank is projecting a 0.4 percent expansion for
the year.  “Companies had been forecasting a rebound in profits in
the second half, but if exporters’ profits are strained and that
depresses stocks, we’ll need to start to worry about the effect
that will have on economic growth,” Nagahama said.  Japan’s economy probably contracted in the second quarter
and is forecast to rebound from the period starting July 1 as
export demand and reconstruction projects fuel growth, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Former policy makers and analysts have said the central
bank may need to bolster stimulus to ease the damage the yen
will have on profits and the economy. The central bank doubled
its asset-buying fund to 10 trillion yen after the March temblor
caused stocks to plunge and the yen to surge. The BOJ also cut
its benchmark rate close to zero last October after the currency
climbed to a 15-year high against the dollar.  Liquidity Injections  “The BOJ needs to buy a significant amount of  government
bonds  to provide ample liquidity,” Sakakibara, who is currently
a professor at  Aoyama Gakuin University , said at a forum in
Tokyo on July 27.  Sakakibara said the BOJ’s failure to ease policy enough was
one reason behind the yen’s advance. “I hope Japan follows the
example of the U.S. and does quantitative easing rigorously.”  The BOJ board may wait for more evidence that the global
outlook has deteriorated rather than just evaluating underlying
currency moves, analyst Maiko Noguchi said.  “Recent move don’t necessarily dictate direct action from
the BOJ given they’ve said they don’t target specific foreign-
exchange levels,” said Noguchi, an economist at Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets in Tokyo. “The decision to ease
policy further will probably require stronger evidence that the
global economy is stalling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Lily Nonomiya at 
 lnonomiya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  