-- Apple, Samsung Report No Progress in Trimming Patent Case
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/apple-samsung-report-no-progress-in-narrowing-patent-case-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  reported they made no progress toward narrowing their
dispute over smartphone and computer tablet patents, increasing
the chances a jury will decide the matter starting Aug. 21.  The companies said yesterday they weren’t able to narrow
the scope of claims at issue in the lawsuit in out-of-court
talks.  The judge overseeing the case in federal court in  San Jose ,
 California , asked the parties to try to simplify the dispute,
while also ordering the chief executives of the two companies to
talk one more time before a jury begins deliberating.  “I think it’s too late to hold out much hope that the
parties will settle before the jury comes back,”  Mark Lemley , a
Stanford University law professor, said yesterday by e-mail
after the companies’ reported to the court. “When there is a
settlement -- and there will be -- it will be a global deal
involving more than just this case.”  Suits over technology patents between the companies are
active on four continents. Lemley said the patent portfolios for
both sides are too deep and broad not to settle and there’s a
risk that both parties could face injunctions blocking the sale
of their products. Apple is seeking to make permanent a
preliminary ban it won in court in San Jose on U.S. sales of a
Samsung tablet, and to extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh last week directed the
companies to report no later than yesterday on whether “there
has been some successful horse trading” to streamline and
simplify claims in the case.  Koh said she remained “pathologically optimistic” a
settlement could be reached. Barring such an agreement, she
said, she hoped to simplify the matter for jurors, who are to
begin deliberating Aug. 21.  Joint Statement  “The parties have met and conferred about case narrowing,
but have not been able to narrow their cases further,”
according to a joint filing signed by attorneys on both sides.
The filing didn’t refer to talks between the CEOs,  Tim Cook  at
Apple and his counterpart at Samsung, Kwon Oh Hyun.  Adam Yates , a spokesman for Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung, declined to comment on yesterday’s filing. Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based Apple,
also declined to comment.  Apple sued Samsung in April 2011, accusing it of copying
patented designs for mobile devices, and Samsung countersued.
The case is the first to go before a federal jury in a battle
for dominance in a smartphone market valued by Bloomberg
Industries at $219.1 billion.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 