-- California’s Fresno Has Ratings Cut by S&P on Budget Woes
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-08-18T00:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/california-s-fresno-has-ratings-cut-by-s-p-on-budget-woes.html
Fresno,  California ’s fifth-biggest
city, had its debt ratings cut three steps by  Standard & Poor’s ,
citing concerns that budget constraints may limit the
municipality’s ability to manage projected multi-year deficits.  The city’s long-term and underlying rating, including for
pension bonds, was cut to BBB-, lowest investment grade, from A-
and its issuer grade was dropped to BBB, second lowest, from A,
S&P said today in a statement. The credit outlook is negative.  “The city’s budget flexibility has become increasingly
narrow given the level of previously enacted workforce
reductions, closed public-safety contracts, low general-fund
balances,” and weak liquidity, Misty Newland, an S&P credit
analyst in  San Francisco , said in a statement.  Fresno, a city of about 501,000 some 200 miles (320
kilometers) north of Los Angeles, is the latest California
municipality to confront budget deficits as the lingering
effects of the longest recession since the Depression and the
housing-market meltdown continue to erode property and sales-tax
revenue. Soaring pension and health-care costs have forced job
and service cuts by cities trying to stay solvent.  California’s Stockton, San Bernardino and Mammoth Lakes
have sought  bankruptcy protection  in the past two months.  Fresno’s budget constraints may linger without “strong”
revenue growth, which is “unlikely given current indications
that the city will continue to experience a slow economic
recovery,” according to the statement from New York-based S&P.  Taxable pension bonds sold by Fresno in January 2002 and
maturing in June 2022 traded to yield 5.9 percent today, up from
5 percent on June 26, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Moody’s Investors Service cut its issuer rating on Fresno
to A3 and its pension bonds to Baa1 last month, citing
deteriorating finances. Taken together with other actions, the
changes affected $462 million of debt.  Fresno, in the agricultural San Joaquin Valley, is the
largest inland city in California.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cara Moffat in  Los Angeles  at 
 cmoffat@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  