-- China New-Home Prices Rebound After Interest-Rate Cuts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-20T00:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/china-july-new-home-prices-rise-in-more-cities-after-rate-cuts.html
China ’s new- home prices  rose in the
largest number of cities in 14 months in July after interest-
rate cuts and incentives for first-time buyers, complicating
efforts to stimulate economic growth while curbing speculation.  Prices climbed from a month earlier in 49 of the 70 cities
tracked by the government, the National Bureau of Statistics
said on its  website  on Aug. 18. That was the most since May last
year and compared with 25 cities in June. Prices fell in nine
cities and were unchanged in 12.  Buyers, buoyed by two interest-rate cuts since June, have
returned to the market even as the government pledges to
maintain real estate curbs to make housing more affordable. The
risk of a rebound in the  property market  may hamper the
People’s Bank of China from reducing rates further or cut banks’
reserve requirement ratios to boost funds in the financial
system and support lending after new  credit  slumped in July.  “Rising property prices are constraining aggressive policy
action from the central bank,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong . “The government
will introduce more policies to contain a property bubble,”
including the extension of a property tax to more cities, he
said.  An inspection last month ordered by the State Council found
recent increases in prices and easing policies by some local
authorities among problems that need “particular attention,”
the official Xinhua News Agency reported on Aug. 17.  The  Shanghai Property Index (SHPROP)  has climbed 10 percent this
year, beating the benchmark  Shanghai  Composite’s 3.8 percent
drop.  ‘Bottomed Out’  “China’s home prices have bottomed out,” Johnson Hu, a
Hong Kong-based property analyst at CIMB-GK Securities Research,
said in a phone interview. “The central government may start to
strictly implement the current curbs. New policies will depend
on the trend of home prices. With the home purchase restrictions
in place, it’s very unlikely housing prices will rebound
strongly.”  China’s economy  expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace in three years as  Europe ’s
debt crisis crimped exports and the government’s property
crackdown cooled domestic demand. The slowdown may extend into a
seventh quarter, with Deutsche Bank AG cutting its growth
estimate for the three months through September to 7.5 percent
from 7.9 percent.  Policy ‘Fine-Tuning’  “Whilst this trend may well continue over the coming
months, it’s still a little premature to label the slowdown over
as certain macro-economic factors could yet threaten this
recovery,” Mark Budden, China area leader at property
consulting firm EC Harris, said in an e-mail.  The latest report adds to evidence the housing market is
picking up after the PBOC cut  interest rates  for the first time
in three years on June 7 and announced a second reduction less
than a month later.  About 30 Chinese cities have issued “fine-tuning”
policies since the second half of 2011, according to Centaline
Property Agency Ltd. Yangzhou introduced home subsidies, Beijing
allowed some discounts on mortgages for first-home buyers and
Shanghai raised the tax threshold on purchases of some homes.  The data “show demand from first-home buyers is very
strong and the interest-rate cuts had a big impact on the
market,” said Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The government may issue
new tightening measures, but they would be mild because it’s
facing a big dilemma of balancing economic growth and property
curbs.”  Suppressed Demand  Figures released earlier this month from  SouFun Holdings
Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s biggest real estate website owner, showed
new-home prices in 100 cities in July posted the biggest month-
on-month gain in more than a year.  “There’s still quite a bit of pent up demand out there and
it’s being artificially pushed down,” Zhang Xin, chief
executive officer of  Soho China Ltd. (410) , the largest developer in
Beijing’s business district, said in an interview on Aug. 16.  Among major cities, new-home prices in Beijing rose 0.3
percent from June, while the southern business hub of Guangzhou
added 0.2 percent, the statistics bureau data show. Prices in
Shanghai and Shenzhen were unchanged.  Of the nine cities reporting a decline in monthly prices,
the eastern city of Wenzhou had the biggest drop of 0.8 percent,
followed by the port city of Ningbo with a slide of 0.6 percent.  ‘Firmly’ Restrain  Prices of existing homes rose in 38 cities last month from
June, up from 31 cities the previous month, the report showed.  The cost of buying a new home is still declining in most
cities on an annual basis, the data showed. Prices dropped in 57
of the 70 cities surveyed in July from a year earlier, unchanged
from the number in June. Prices in Wenzhou dropped 15.6 percent
and those in Ningbo fell 7.8 percent.  The government sent eight teams to 16 provinces and
municipalities last month to check on the implementation of
property curbs, an inspection aimed at “firmly” restraining
speculation and consolidating results of the restrictions,
Xinhua reported on July 24, citing a State Council statement.  China has over the past two years raised down-payment and
mortgage requirements, imposed a property tax for the first time
in Shanghai and Chongqing, increased building of low-cost social
housing, and placed home purchase restrictions in about 40
cities.  ‘Real Barrier’  The pressure of stabilizing housing prices in some cities
is rising, Xinhua said on Aug. 17, citing a State Council
statement on the result of the inspections. Rising prices have
changed  market sentiment  and local governments should “firmly”
curb property speculation, the  news agency  said.  The Shanghai Securities News also reported that the State
Council is taking a “stricter tone” on property controls after
the inspection.  Amid signs the government’s crackdown is affecting the
finances of some property companies, the banking regulator has
told lenders that lack of funding, high leverage and a peak of
loans maturing have increased the risk that some developers’
financing chains may collapse, Bloomberg News reported on Aug.
17, citing a person with knowledge of the matter.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission has told lenders to
push developers to sell homes at a faster pace, offload projects
or sell stakes if they predict builders will have difficulty
repaying loans due within 12 months, the person said.  The value of home sales transactions dropped 14.5 percent
in July from the previous month after rebounding the most in a
year in June, the statistics bureau said on Aug. 9.  China’s property industry is facing “huge challenges,” as
the “toughest time” for the industry hasn’t passed, Kong Qingping, chairman of  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the
country’s biggest developer by market value listed in Hong Kong,
said in a press briefing in Hong Kong on Aug. 10.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  