-- China Gas Reinstates Liu as Head After Police Case Dropped
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   B e n   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2012-08-18T04:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/china-gas-reinstates-liu-as-head-after-embezzlement-case-dropped.html
China Gas Holdings Ltd. (384) , the target
of a $2 billion hostile takeover, reinstated Liu Ming Hui as
managing director 20 months after his arrest in Shenzhen on
suspicion of embezzlement led to his ouster.  The Hong Kong-based distributor of gas in  China  also
announced the return of Huang Yong, detained along with Liu, as
executive president, according to a statement to the Hong Kong
stock exchange released last night. The arrests in December 2010
sent the company’s share price tumbling and sparked a bid by
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , known as Sinopec, and  ENN
Energy Holdings Ltd. (2688)  that China Gas said was “opportunistic.”  China Gas last month said Liu and Huang wouldn’t face
charges over misappropriation. The facts “were unclear,
evidence was insufficient and the conditions for prosecution
have not been met,” the company said in a July 25 statement to
the stock exchange. Less than a week later, it said Liu would
rejoin the board as a non-executive director.  Liu’s return is a “sign that there is major resistance
against the bid,” said Edwin Pang, an oil and gas analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG. “On the operation front, it should not
have any impact.”  The reappointments cap almost two years of turmoil at  China
Gas. (3)  The company was forced to put in place an ad hoc management
committee on Dec. 23, 2010, after Liu and Huang were “escorted
away” from its offices in the southern city of Shenzhen a week
earlier and it had been unable to contact them, China Gas said
at the time.  Takeover Target  The following April, then-Chairman Li Xiaoyuan and Vice
Chairman Xu Ying were ousted after some board members said they
failed to fully disclose details of the incident during the Dec.
23 meeting. Liu was voted off the board at the same time and the
company said it hadn’t heard from him since his arrest.  China Gas  shares , suspended for more than a month after the
detentions, slumped as much as 52 percent last year before
rebounding amid speculation of a possible takeover bid.  Sinopec and ENN, the fourth-largest Hong Kong-listed gas
supplier, in December last year  offered  HK$3.50 a share for
China Gas. The all-cash bid was 25 percent higher than the
previous day’s closing price, valuing the company at HK$15.3
billion ($2 billion). China Gas shares closed at HK$4.24
yesterday in Hong Kong.  The utility’s largest stakeholders bought more shares as
they sought to block the takeover, with  Beijing Enterprises (392) 
Group, the single largest investor, paying as much as 17 percent
more than the offer price to add to its holdings. The three
biggest shareholders own more than 50 percent of the company,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  China Gas Joint Managing Director Eric Leung said on July 6
it seemed “impossible” the offer could succeed and urged the
bidders to allow the bid to lapse. ENN and Sinopec have extended
the deadline for their offer to Sept. 6 pending regulatory
approval, they said in an Aug. 7 statement to the stock
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Richardson in  Hong Kong  at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  