-- Deutsche Bank Among Four Said to Be in U.S. Iran Probe
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-08-19T01:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/deutsche-bank-among-four-said-to-be-in-u-s-laundering-probe.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is among four
European banks being investigated by U.S. authorities for
alleged violations involving oil trading and Iran, according to
an attorney with knowledge of the matter.  Regulators including the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign
Assets Control, the  Federal Reserve , the  Justice Department  and
the Manhattan district attorney’s office are all involved in the
probe of Deutsche Bank and three other European banks, said the
attorney, who asked not to be identified because the
investigations are confidential.  “Deutsche Bank had decided by 2007 to reject any new
business with Iran, Syria, Sudan and  North Korea  and to end
existing relationships to the extent it was legally possible,”
Deutsche Bank spokeswoman Friederika Borgmann said, declining to
comment on the U.S. investigation.  The regulators were in advanced stages of an investigation
into banking violations at  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  when the
superintendent of New York’s banks,  Benjamin Lawsky , moved first
in that matter with an Aug. 6 order accusing the London-based
lender of multiple violations of state banking laws.  Once the federal authorities resolve their probe of
Standard Chartered, they will proceed against the four European
banks they have been investigating, including Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank, according to the attorney.  Erin Duggan, a spokeswoman in the Manhattan district
attorney’s office, didn’t immediately return an e-mail sent
outside of regular business hours seeking comment on the probe.
Dean Boyd of the Justice Department,  John Sullivan , a Treasury
spokesman, and  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Federal Reserve
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  U-Turn Transactions  Lawsky’s order accused  Standard Chartered  of helping Iran
launder about $250 billion in violation of federal laws. He
accused the bank of a decade of deception, including keeping
false records, in handling lucrative wire transfers for Iranian
clients. The bank sent them through its New York unit in so-
called U-turn transactions with client names omitted to hide
their provenance, Lawsky said.  Lawsky reached a settlement with Standard Chartered on Aug.
14, in which the bank agreed to pay $340 million to settle the
claims. The New York regulator said that day in a statement that
“the parties have agreed that the conduct at issue involved
transactions of at least $250 billion.” The $340 million fine
will go to Lawsky’s agency,  New York ’s Department of Financial
Services, or DFS, and the state.  As part of the settlement, New York said the bank agreed to
install an independent on-site monitor for at least two years
who will report directly to regulators. Examiners from the DFS
will also be placed at the bank.  Lawsky’s agency, according to the Aug. 6 order, is
investigating wire transfers executed by Standard Chartered’s
New York branch on behalf of other U.S.-sanctioned countries,
including Myanmar and Sudan and Libya, before the ouster of
 Muammar Qaddafi .  ‘Engage Constructively’  The sum may be the largest ever paid to an individual
regulator as part of a money-laundering accord. In June, ING
Bank NV agreed to pay $619 million to settle similar
allegations. That was split into equal payments of $309.5
million to the federal government and the Manhattan  District
Attorney . A person familiar with the New York probe of Standard
Chartered said that Lawsky had sought as much as $700 million to
settle his investigation.  Standard Chartered said in an Aug. 14 statement that it
“continues to engage constructively with the other relevant
U.S. authorities.”  From 2004 through 2007, Standard Chartered was subject to
formal action over other regulatory compliance failures related
to the Bank Secrecy Act, anti-money laundering policies and
procedures and regulations of the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets
Control, the main overseer of Iran transactions.  In a 2004 agreement with regulators, the bank promised to
monitor and improve money-laundering controls.  The restrictions of the agreement were lifted in 2007
because the bank provided a “watered-down” report of
compliance, according to Lawsky’s order. Bank statements
“misled” the department into lifting the restrictions of the
2004 agreement, the order stated.  The investigation of Deutsche Bank was reported earlier by
the New York Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  