-- Dollar Gains as Speculation Wanes Fed Will Add Further Stimulus
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-08-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/dollar-gains-as-speculation-wanes-fed-will-add-further-stimulus.html
The dollar advanced against the
majority of its most-traded counterparts as speculation receded
that the  Federal Reserve  will increase its monetary stimulus
amid stronger-than-forecast economic data.  The euro touched a six-week high this week versus the yen
as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s support for measures to
protect the common currency spurred optimism the region’s debt
crisis will be contained. The Australian dollar fell against all
except two major peers after the government said the central
bank could ease monetary policy if currency gains hurt the
economy. The  Federal Open Market Committee  will offer hints of
its thinking on a third round of asset purchases, or
quantitative easing, when it releases meeting minutes Aug. 22.  “We got excited over three or four positive data
surprises” in the U.S.,  Mary Nicola , a New York-based currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA, said in a telephone interview.
“First we were talking about QE, and now we’re talking about
scaling back expectations of QE3.”  The dollar declined 0.4 percent this week to $1.2319 per
euro. Japan’s currency dropped five consecutive days against the
dollar, retreating 1.6 percent to 79.56. The euro gained 2
percent to 98.13 yen after climbing yesterday to 98.41, the most
since July 6.  The yen fell against the dollar as yields on Treasuries due
in  two years  touched 0.29 percent on Aug. 16, the highest since
July 5.  ‘Fairly Dramatically’  “Dollar-yen has stayed lower, longer than you would
expect, particularly as yields in the U.S. have risen fairly
dramatically,”  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist at
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotiabank unit in Toronto, said in a
phone interview. “Over the last few sessions, we’re finally
seeing dollar yen break out of its range and back towards 80.”  U.S. building permits, a proxy for future  home
construction , rose to an 812,000 pace, the most since August
2008, Commerce Department figures showed Aug. 16 in  Washington .
Retail sales rose 0.8 percent, the biggest increase since
February, government figures showed Aug. 14.  Confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly improved in
August, boosting the prospect of stronger household spending
this quarter, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment. The Conference
Board’s index of U.S. leading economic indicators, a gauge of
the outlook for the next three to six months, climbed more than
forecast in July.  ECB Plan  Merkel, who is due to meet French President  Francois
Hollande  on Aug. 23 and Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras a
day later, said on Aug. 16 that Germany is “in line” with the
European Central Bank’s approach to defending the euro.  “Obviously time is pressing” on stamping out the debt
crisis, though “on many of these issues we feel we’re on the
right track,” she told reporters in Ottawa at a press
conference with Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper .  ECB President Draghi offered to buy Italy’s and Spain’s
bonds on the market on Aug. 2 as long as the euro governments’
bailout fund makes purchases directly from the two countries’
treasuries and ties them to tough conditions. Spain and Italy
have yet to say whether they will request aid.  While “opening the door toward the ECB buying more bonds
and sending yields down, it’s good for survival, I think it’s a
stretch for a lot of people to believe that even more monetary
easing is a good for a currency,” Kit Juckes, the head of
foreign-exchange research in  London  at Societe General SA, said
in a telephone interview. “The euro will be a strong currency
if and when it survives.”  ‘Some Pressure’  The euro gained 0.6 percent over the past week, the best
performer alongside the Swiss franc among the 10 developed-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The yen declined 1.5 percent and the dollar gained 0.3
percent.  The euro zone’s current account climbed to a seasonally
adjusted 12.7 billion euros ($15.7 billion) in June from 10.3
billion euros the previous month, according to data from the
 European Central Bank  in  Frankfurt .  The difference in yields between U.S. and German 10-year
bonds yesterday reached its widest point since June 6, at 32
basis points, or 0.32 percentage point. The spread could put
downward pressure on the euro by making German debt less
attractive, Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York , said in a telephone interview.  “Yields in the U.S. are increasing compared to Germany,
which could put some pressure on the euro,” St-Arnaud said.  Nomura forecasts that the euro will fall to $1.18 versus
the greenback by the end of the third quarter and $1.15 by year
end.  Aussie Falls  Australia ’s dollar fell 1.5 percent for the week, the
biggest drop since May 18, before the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
next week releases minutes of its Aug. 7 meeting, where policy
makers left the key  interest rate  at 3.5 percent.  Models used by the  International Monetary Fund  and other
analysts show “the Australian dollar is overvalued compared to
its medium- to long-run equilibrium value,” according to an
Australian Treasury report on its website today.  The Aussie declined as  China’s economy  showed signs of
slowing. Gross domestic product is forecast to increase 8.2
percent this year, a percentage point less than in 2011,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “There is a sense that the Australian dollar is
vulnerable,” Juckes said. “If the Australian economy slowed,
it would be vulnerable. If they talk about easing rates further,
it would be vulnerable. If the Chinese trade story deteriorates,
it’ll be vulnerable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  