-- Emory Says It Inflated Students’ Entrance Exam Scores
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-08-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/emory-says-it-inflated-students-entrance-exam-scores.html
Emory University, an Atlanta school
that received more than 17,000 freshman applications, said it
intentionally reported inflated student entrance-exam scores and
high school class ranks for more than a decade.  Unfairly burnishing its reputation, the college gave the
information to the public and to services that rank schools
based on the data, such as U.S. News & World Report, Emory said
yesterday in a  statement . The rankings are influential with
students and parents making college choices.  “As an institution that challenges itself, in the words of
our vision statement, to be ’ethically engaged,’ Emory has not
been well served by representatives in this history of
misreporting,” President James Wagner said in a statement. “I
am deeply disappointed.”  Emory’s admission illustrates the pressure colleges face to
boost their rankings as they compete for the attention of
students and their tuition dollars. The university’s
announcement follows the January disclosure by  Claremont McKenna
College , near  Los Angeles , that a school official had
misrepresented SAT statistics since 2005.  Emory said it had inflated its reported  SAT  scores by 40
points in both 2010 and 2009. The school incorrectly said the
25th percentile of its admitted students in 2010 had a combined
reading and math SAT score of 1,310 out of 1,600 and the 75th
percentile achieved 1500. In fact, the scores ranged from 1,270
to 1,460.  SAT, ACT  Emory also incorrectly stated that 87 percent of its
students in 2010 were in the top 10 percent of their high school
classes in terms of grades. The true figure was 75 percent. The
university made similar misrepresentations the year before.  At one time, which the college didn’t specify, Emory said
it may have excluded the scores of the bottom 10 percent of
students reporting both SAT and  ACT  scores, the main college
admissions exams, and grade-point averages. Evidence showed the
practice wasn’t followed after 2004.  The university said the misreporting occurred since at
least 2000 as the admissions office reported the scores of
admitted students, rather than those who enrolled. In May of
this year, John Latting, Emory’s new assistant vice provost
overseeing admissions, discovered discrepancies and the school
conducted an investigation using an outside  law firm , the
college said.  Deans Involved  Two former deans of admission and the leadership of Emory’s
 Office of Institutional Research  were aware of the misreporting,
according to the university statement.  “The employees responsible for this conduct are no longer
employed at Emory,” the college said in the statement. Emory
declined to name the employees.  New internal controls, including a staff dedicated to
managing “a system of checks and balances for future
reporting,” will be put in place, the university said in the
statement.  Emory said it didn’t know whether it had received a higher
U.S. News ranking than it deserved, or if its position would
drop.  U.S. News said its preliminary calculations show that
Emory’s ranking over the past two years -- No. 20 among national
universities -- wouldn’t have changed, according to a  statement 
on its website. The misrepresentations would probably have had
“a small to negligible effect in the several years prior.”  “We deplore the long-standing misreporting which Emory
made public,”  Brian Kelly , U.S. News editor and chief content
officer said in the statement yesterday. “We appreciate the
university’s commitment to fixing its data process.”  Manipulated Results  The Emory news underscores the flaws of efforts to rank
colleges based on exam scores, said Bob Schaeffer, a spokesman
for FairTest, a Boston-based nonprofit group critical of
standardized tests.  “Emory’s confession that school officials gave inaccurate
information to U.S. News & World Report is further evidence that
the higher education ranking game is a case of garbage-in-
garbage-out,” Schaeffer said in an e-mail. “The reliance on
self-reported data from colleges, which obviously want to
burnish their profiles, guarantees that the results will be
manipulated.”  Founded in 1836, Emory has long been a favored charity of
those running Atlanta-based Coca-Cola Co. Alumni include  Kenneth Cole , the fashion designer and  Newt Gingrich , former speaker of
the U.S. House of Representatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in  Boston  at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  