-- Facebook’s Settlement Over ‘Sponsored Stories’ Blocked by Judge
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-08-18T04:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/facebook-loses-bid-to-approve-sponsored-stories-suit-accord-1-.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , whose shares fell to
a record low yesterday, failed to persuade a judge to approve a
$20 million settlement resolving a lawsuit over “sponsored
stories” that provides cash for advocacy groups and attorneys
and no money for users.  U.S. District Judge Richard Seeborg in San Francisco
yesterday refused to grant preliminary approval of the accord,
saying that while it isn’t feasible to divide $10 million among
as many as 70 million affected customers, it isn’t sufficient to
justify giving that money only to advocacy groups. Lawyers for
customers had argued the groups would be “watchdogs” over
Facebook.  Seeborg also said he had “serious concerns” about a
provision in the settlement to pay plaintiffs’ attorneys as much
as $10 million.  Facebook was accused in a lawsuit of appropriating the
names, photographs and identities of users to advertise products
without their permission. The company’s “sponsored stories”
were a “misleading advertising scheme” using material posted
by Facebook members on their profile pages, according to the
complaint.  California  laws outlawing using someone’s name or likeness
in advertising without their consent provide damages of $750 a
violation, Seeborg said. Lawyers for Facebook and customers
argued that paying users cash isn’t practical because even
paying each $10 could mean a $1 billion settlement, assuming 100
million users were affected, Seeborg said.  ‘Too Big’  “Are some class actions simply too big to settle?”
Seeborg said in his order yesterday.  He said Facebook and the plaintiffs’ lawyers can modify the
settlement or renew their request for approval of the existing
accord with more legal arguments addressing his comments.  Consumer Watchdog , a  Santa Monica , California-based group
that opposed the settlement, praised Seeborg’s decision.  “This decision does much to defend the integrity of the
class-action process,” said John M. Simpson, Consumer
Watchdog’s Privacy Project Director. “The way this deal was
proposed there was no real benefit for class members.”  Robert Arns, an attorney for customers, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment on the judge’s order after
regular business hours yesterday.  ‘Fair, Reasonable’  “We continue to believe the settlement is fair,
reasonable, and adequate,” Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for  Menlo
Park ,  California-based Facebook , said in an e-mailed statement.
“We appreciate the court’s guidance and look forward to
addressing the questions raised in the order.”  Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking service,
fell yesterday to $19.05 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, losing
almost half its value since an initial public offering in May,
after lifting of restrictions on share sales by its biggest
investors.  Under the proposed accord, Facebook consented to revising
its terms of usage so subscribers can more easily see when
they’re being shown as endorsers of products and games for which
they clicked a “like” button. The revisions would also let
users limit the display of their content and interactions
alongside “sponsored stories.” Minors can opt out of the
advertising.  The proposed accord required the company to pay $10 million
to be shared among advocacy groups for children, consumers and
electronic privacy.  The case is Fraley v. Facebook Inc., 11-cv-01726, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California ( San Jose ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Blumberg at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net  