-- Fisker Recalls Plug-in Karma Cars for Fans Linked to Fire
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-08-18T20:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/fisker-looks-into-california-fire-involving-plug-in-karma.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., a maker of
luxury plug-in hybrid cars backed by U.S. government loans,
plans to recall all its $103,000 Karma sedans to fix a flawed
cooling fan linked to a  California  fire.  The closely held company, working with investigators from
 Pacific Rim Investigative Services Group , a fire-analysis firm
in Corona, California, said today in a statement that a fault in
the fan in the car’s front left corner overheated and caused a
slow-burning fire in the vehicle in Woodside, California, on
Aug. 10. The Anaheim, California-based company and its dealers
will notify customers of plans to replace the fan, Fisker said.  “This incident resulted from a single, faulty component,”
Henrik Fisker, the car’s designer and Fisker’s executive
chairman and co-founder, said in the statement. The car’s
lithium-ion batteries, motor and other electric components
weren’t the cause of the problem, he said.  The incident follows a March recall by Fisker’s battery
supplier  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  to replace flawed packs, and a recall
in December for a software glitch. Fisker is working to improve
its finances and sales after losing access last year to a
portion of a $529 million low-interest loan awarded by the U.S.
Energy Department in 2009.  The company this week named  Tony Posawatz , a former  General
Motors Co. (GM)  engineer who led development of the plug-in Chevrolet
Volt sedan, as its new chief executive officer, replacing Tom LaSorda. Fisker’s loss of its federal loan led the company in
February to stop work at a Wilmington, Delaware, factory where
it planned to build a second car model, the Atlantic.  Cooling Fans  The cost of replacing the cooling fans isn’t likely to have
a “material impact” on Fisker, the company said in the
statement. It has delivered about 1,900 Karmas since last year,
 Henrik Fisker  said this week.  The Karma fire in Woodside was the second this year. The
company hasn’t been able to determine the cause of an earlier
fire in  Sugar Land , Texas, Roger Ormisher, a spokesman for the
company, said by e-mail today.  “The report for the Texas fire is not in the public domain
and we do not have access to it,” he said. Any link between
that fire and the one in Woodside “is pure speculation and the
real root cause is unlikely to be determined,” Ormisher said.  Seeking Information  The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  said
last week it was aware of the Woodside fire and would determine
whether additional “agency action” was required, without
elaborating.  Congressional Republicans including Senators  Charles Grassley  of Iowa and  John Thune  of South Dakota have been
reviewing Fisker’s U.S. loans recently, seeking additional
information from the Energy Department and the company about its
business plans and use of funds.  Separately, General Motors Co. is recalling 249,260
vehicles over concern that fluid may enter the driver’s door,
causing corrosion that could result in a short in the  circuit
board , NHTSA said on its website today. The recall covers model
year 2006 Chevrolet Trailblazer EXT and GMC Envoy XL light
trucks; 2006-07 Chevrolet Trailblazers, GMC Envoy, Buick
Rainier, SAAB 9-7x and Isuzu Ascender sport-utility vehicles.  Ducati Motor also recalled 2,411 of its 1199 Panigale
motorcycles because of possible loose screws and bearings in
steering, and a cable cover that could melt or catch fire, NHTSA
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  