-- Schaeuble Rules Out New Aid Plan for Greece, Cites ‘Limits’
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-08-18T17:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/germany-s-schaeuble-rules-out-more-financial-aid-for-greece-1-.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  ruled out another aid program for  Greece  even though
the country is in a “very difficult situation” with a
shrinking economy.  “It can’t be helped -- we can’t make yet another new
program,” Schaeuble told visitors today at his ministry’s open
day in Berlin. “There are limits.”  Gross domestic product has declined by more than 20 percent
in four to five years in Greece, which also has high
unemployment, he said. Two bailouts totaling 240 billion euros
($296 billion) have been implemented for the nation since the
 European debt crisis  began, and the country is now contending
with austerity measures needed to qualify for more aid.  Greece faces a financing gap of 14 billion euros in each of
the next two years, a delegation from the so-called troika of
the European Commission, European Central Bank and  International
Monetary Fund  has found, according to  Spiegel  magazine today.
That compares with a previous estimate of 11.5 billion euros a
year, Spiegel said, without saying where it got the information.  The sovereign-debt crisis mustn’t become a “bottomless
pit” for  Germany , even though  Europe ’s biggest economy would
pay the highest price in a breakup of the euro region, Schaeuble
said. Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras wants the country’s
fiscal adjustment program to be extended by two years to the end
of 2016.  Two Years  Greece’s economy would contract at a slower pace in 2013
and expand in 2014 if two extra years were granted, Athens-based
newspaper Imerisia reported today, citing unidentified finance
ministry officials.  Samaras will meet German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  on Aug.
24 in Berlin and French President  Francois Hollande  on Aug. 25
in Paris to lobby for an easing of bailout terms.  European leaders have struggled to contain the debt crisis
that’s roiling the 17-nation region. European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said Aug. 2 the bank would buy sovereign
bonds to bring down yields if countries applied for support from
Europe’s rescue fund and accepted conditions.  Market reaction to the debt crisis isn’t justified by the
“objective figures,” and public finances in the U.S. are in
worse shape than the euro region’s, Schaeuble said today. It
would still be “stupid” not to make contingency plans in case
rescue efforts don’t work out as planned, he said.  European Stocks Climb  Spanish 10-year bond prices rose for the first week this
month in the most recent week and German 10-year bund prices
fell on the view the  European Central Bank  and European Union
will take steps to bail out the Iberian nation. Expectations of
European economic stimulus drove the region’s stocks this past
week to the highest level in 13 months.  While the prospect of the euro failing is “nonsensical
speculation” and would be very expensive for Germany, the
region’s debt crisis won’t be solved in just a few months, and
“it will take time” for confidence to return to financial
markets, Schaeuble said.  “Many are telling us now to turn a blind eye to debt
reduction” to save the euro, Schaeuble said, rejecting the
option to let the ECB finance government debt. “That would only
postpone the problem to tomorrow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  