-- Guindos Urges Unlimited ECB Aid as Talks on New Terms Planned
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-08-18T12:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/guindos-urges-unlimited-ecb-aid-as-talks-on-new-terms-planned.html
Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos urged unlimited bond buying by the  European Central Bank 
to lower the struggling euro country’s borrowing costs as talks
on conditions for the aid are planned in September.  ECB bond buying on the secondary market should be unlimited
in duration and size to support the nation’s debt, De Guindos
told Spanish news agency  Efe  in an interview. Terms for the
assistance will be discussed at a euro group meeting in the
second week of September, he said. The comments were confirmed
by a Spanish official, who asked not be identified, citing
government policy.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is considering requesting
another rescue to stem a surge in sovereign borrowing costs two
months after securing as much as 100 billion euros ($123
billion) of European loans for  Spain ’s banks. Rajoy is
struggling to restore investor confidence as a second recession
since 2009 makes it harder to meet budget goals.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 2 that the bank
would buy sovereign bonds to bring down yields if countries
applied for similar support from  Europe ’s rescue fund and
accepted strict conditions in return. Spain’s  benchmark 10-year
bond  yield has fallen 76 basis points since Aug. 2 and closed at
6.44 percent on Aug. 17, the lowest in more than a month.  Measures Planned  European leaders are struggling to contain a debt crisis
that started with Greece, triggered crisis aid for Ireland and
 Portugal , and has now enveloped Spain, the 17-nation bloc’s
fourth-largest economy.  De Guindos told Efe he doesn’t expect any new conditions to
differ much from the measures Spain has already planned through
2014. A budget outline sent to the European Commission on Aug. 3
sets out cuts of more than 100 billion euros that will reduce
the deficit to 2.8 percent of gross domestic product in 2014,
from 8.9 percent last year.  De Guindos said the state-owned lottery is negotiating a
syndicated loan of 6 billion euros with national and foreign
banks, as previously announced, to help finance an 18-billion
euro fund to bail out the regions. De Guindos said the money is
already available and that the regions of Murcia, Valencia and
Catalonia have applied for it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  