-- Illinois Lawmakers ‘Look Like Idiots’ as Session Fails
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-08-18T01:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/illinois-lawmakers-look-like-idiots-as-session-fails.html
Illinois lawmakers failed to take
action on a cost-cutting overhaul of the nation’s worst-funded
pensions, ending a one-day session called by Democratic Governor
 Pat Quinn .  “We all look like idiots,” Representative Daniel Biss, an
Evanston Democrat, said yesterday as the House failed to advance
a bill that would have eliminated the Legislature’s own pension
plan, one of five the state manages. “Not the governor, not the
other side, not our side -- we all look like idiots.”  Unsustainable retirement expenses have mired Illinois in
the same difficulties that helped push cities from Stockton,
 California , to  Central Falls ,  Rhode Island , into bankruptcy. The
Illinois pensions covering teachers, judges, university
employees, legislators and state workers are 45 percent funded,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As hundreds of unionized public employees demonstrated
against proposed changes outside the Capitol in Springfield,
Democrats and Republicans inside couldn’t reach agreement on
controlling costs in a system with at least $83 billion in
unfunded liabilities.  Lawmakers have considered increasing employee
contributions, passing some costs to local school districts, and
forcing workers to choose between the current system and
receiving free retirement health care. None won majority
support.  “We need to stop the politics,” House Republican Leader
Tom Cross of Oswego said during the debate. “We really are at a
point where we may not have a pension system down the road.”  Politics Responsible  Politics is the problem, said Quinn, who blamed Republican
leaders for the collapse of the session. The governor told
reporters at a press briefing that he would begin a campaign to
put public pressure on lawmakers to reform the pension system.  “They’ve got to be pressured by the public, by the
taxpayers,” Quinn said. “The only way to get them to stand
upright on this issue is for the people of Illinois, the people
who pay the taxes, to lean on them.”  State contributions to the consolidated retirement system,
with $63 billion in assets, are projected to reach $5.2 billion
in fiscal 2013, up from $4.1 billion in the year that ended June
30, budget documents show.  Standard & Poor’s  said in April it may cut Illinois’ rating
from A+, the fifth-highest, if lawmakers don’t enact
“structural budget solutions” and address “significant
pension liabilities.”  California, at A-, is the only state whose credit is graded
lower by the New York-based company. Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded Illinois in January to A2, its lowest grade for a
state.  Although Illinois lawmakers raised personal and corporate
income taxes in 2011, the state carries a backlog of about $8
billion in unpaid bills, which doesn’t include pension
obligations.  The special session adjourned several hours after the House
expelled Democratic Representative Derrick Smith of  Chicago , who
was charged with bribery earlier this year. He was the first
member removed in more than a century.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Springfield,  Illinois  at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  