-- Kosovo Says Five Groups Qualify for State Telecoms Company Bid
-- B y   B e k i m   G r e i c e v c i   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-08-18T15:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/kosovo-says-five-groups-qualify-for-state-telecoms-company-bid.html
Five groups including units of
 Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) ,  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC)  and
British Telecom  Poland  qualified to bid for  Kosovo ’s state-owned
Posta dhe Telekomunikacioni i Kosoves Sh.A.  The groups will be allowed to take part in the sales tender
for the phone company that’s expected to begin in September, the
 Ministry of Economic Development  said in an e-mailed statement.  Binding bids for a 75 percent stake in the company, also
known as PTK, are expected in the fourth quarter, the ministry
said. PTK has some 1 million mobile and 100,000 landline users
in the nation of 1.8 million people. It’s Kosovo’s second
attempt to sell PTK after a tender failed last year because of a
corruption investigation at the Pristina-based company.  The government said in June it would only consider buyers
that have provided mobile services for at least three years,
with average annual revenue of at least 300 million euros ($370
million) and assets of no less than $750 million. It hasn’t set
a minimum price for the company.  Three bidders including Monaco Telecom International SAM,
Luxembourg-based Geni Capital and Elkos LLC from Kosovo failed
to qualify, the authorities said.  The approved groups are: Portugal Telecom and Albright
Capital Management LLC; Columbia Capital with ACP Axos Capital
GmbH and  British Telecom Poland (BT/A) ; Turkcell; M1 International
Limited; Avicena Capital with Sofrecom SA.  Kosovo, which declared independence from  Serbia  in 2008, is
raising funds to finance its budget and rebuild its communist-
era infrastructure which was devastated in 1999 when the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization drove out Serbian troops during a
months-long bombing campaign.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bekim Greicevci in Pristina at 
 bgreicevci@bloomberg.net ; Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
   msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  