-- New Zealand Beats Australia in Rugby Championship Opener
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-18T18:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/new-zealand-defeats-australia-27-19-in-rugby-championship-opener.html
World champion  New Zealand  beat
 Australia  27-19 in the opening match of the southern
hemisphere’s Rugby Championship to move within one win of
retaining the Bledisloe Cup for a 10th straight series.  Israel Dagg and Cory Jane scored tries for the top-ranked
All Blacks at Sydney’s ANZ Stadium last night and fly-halfDan Carter kicked 17 points, including a penalty with the last play
to deny the Wallabies a bonus point.  Nathan Sharpe  got
Australia’s only try, while  Berrick Barnes  booted 14 points.  Argentina made its debut in the annual tournament with a
27-6 loss to  South Africa  in  Cape Town . The Springboks have won
all 14 meetings with the Pumas.  As well as kicking off the expanded championship, the
Australia-New Zealand game was the first of three Bledisloe Cup
Tests between the teams in 2012. The Wallabies last held the
trophy in 2002 and this year is the first best-of-three contest
since 1998, the series having been played over two or four
matches in the time since. The All Blacks will retain the Cup by
winning when the teams meet at Auckland’s  Eden Park  on Aug. 25.  “We’ve got an opportunity to keep it if we prepare well,”
All Blacks coach  Steve Hansen  said in a news conference. “If we
go home and think we we’ve done the job already then that’s a
recipe for disaster.’  In a match featuring a high error rate, the All Blacks’
superior defense denied Australia’s pacy outside backs from
having any influence. New Zealand led by eight points at the
break and maintained that margin at full time.  Game Rustiness  “Both teams perhaps were lacking a game under their
belt,” said All Blacks captain Richie McCaw. “It’s been a
while since we’ve been together and it showed. The intensity was
there and it comes down to two or three opportunities.”  Australia, which won the last edition of the Tri-Nations
for its first southern hemisphere title since 2001, took a 3-0
lead in the third minute after the All Blacks were penalized for
deliberately wheeling the scrum.  New Zealand scored the next 18 points as Carter kicked two
penalties and a conversion and fullback Dagg and winger Jane
went over for tries 20 minutes apart in opposite corners.  The second try came after fumbles a minute apart by
Australia’s  Scott Higginbotham  and Kurtley Beale, who also
missed a tackle to allow Dagg to cross the try line. With
halftime approaching, second-rower Sharpe crashed over after the
Wallabies recycled the ball following a break by Digby Ioane
near the posts and Barnes added the extras to make it 18-10.  Barnes booted two penalties either side of a Carter effort
to make it 21-16 with half an hour remaining. The All Blacks
playmaker restored his team’s eight-point advantage before the
pair traded another set of penalties.  Record Tally  Carter’s successful kick after the full-time siren, which
came after No. 8 Kieran Read had effected New Zealand’s 16th
turnover, extended his world-record tally of 1,301 Test points
and denied Australia a competition bonus point for losing by
seven points or fewer.  “To their credit they put us under pressure but it was
really the unforced errors that put us in a difficult
position,” Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said. “We have to be
better, that wouldn’t be too hard I don’t think. We’ll
definitely be better next week.”  Zane Kirchner, Marcell Coetzee and  Bryan Habana  scored
tries for South Africa at Newlands stadium, while Morne Steyn
kicked 12 points. Juan Martin Hernandez booted two penalties
for Argentina.  Steyn opened the scoring with a fourth-minute penalty,
which Hernandez matched 10 minutes later. Kirchner and Coetzee
then sandwiched converted tries around another Styne penalty,
before Hernandez pulled the Pumas within 20-6 at halftime.  South Africa then scored the only points of the second half
in the 57th minute as Habana touched down, with Steyn converting.  The teams meet again in the second round of games Aug. 25
in Mendoza,  Argentina .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  