-- OnLive Averts Shutdown With Sale of Assets to New Backer
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-08-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/onlive-averts-shutdown-with-sale-of-assets-to-new-backer.html
OnLive Inc., the online video-game
company founded by Web pioneer Steve Perlman, sold its assets to
a newly formed parent that will provide funding to keep the
struggling service running.  OnLive’s management is intact, Jane Anderson, a spokeswoman
for the Palo Alto, California-based company, said yesterday in
an e-mail. She declined to identify the source of the funding or
provide terms.  The new funds allow OnLive, an early entrant in the online
video-game business, to keep afloat as it eliminates staff to
lower costs. The company began service in 2009 after seven years
of development, with investors including  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s AT&T Media
Holdings Inc.,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.,  Autodesk Inc. (ADSK) ,
and Maverick Capital Ltd. Its competitors include Gaikai,
purchased by  Sony Corp. (6758)  this year for $380 million.  The new company “will continue to operate the OnLive Game
and Desktop services, as well as support all of OnLive’s apps
and devices” and partnerships, Anderson said in a statement.
“The new company is hiring a large percentage of OnLive Inc.’s
staff across all departments” and will continue to hire, she
said.  With OnLive, consumers pay $9.99 a month for online access
to more than 200 games. Customers can also rent or purchase
games through the website. The service doesn’t require a video-
game console such as Sony’s PlayStation or  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Xbox 360.  The website Gamesbeat, which reported the sale yesterday,
said employees were seen leaving the company’s headquarters in
the afternoon carrying out boxes with belongings.  Perlman, who is president and chief executive officer of
OnLive, founded WebTV Networks, a device that provided  Internet
access  through television sets, and sold it to Microsoft Corp.
in 1997 for $425 million in stock and cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  