-- Ryan Defends Medicare Plans in a Debate Obama Welcomes
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-08-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/ryan-defends-plan-to-overhaul-medicare-in-florida-swing.html
As Republican vice presidential
candidate Paul Ryan defended his plan to overhaul Medicare and
took that case to  Florida , President  Barack Obama  welcomed the
debate in his contest with challenger  Mitt Romney .  Ryan, the Wisconsin congressman and chairman of the U.S.
House Budget Committee whom Romney named as his running mate,
carried the Republicans’ campaign to Florida, the state with the
greatest share of Medicare recipients, telling an audience in a
sprawling retirement community yesterday this about Medicare:
“You have to reform it for my generation so it doesn’t go
bankrupt when we want to retire.”  “We want this debate, we need this debate,” Ryan, 42, a
seven-term House member, said in The Villages, a retirement
community of more than 44,000 homes about 60 miles northwest of
 Orlando . “And we are going to win this debate.”  Obama, campaigning yesterday in  New Hampshire , said Romney
and Ryan “are being dishonest” about his own intentions with
Medicare in the health-care law that he won.  “You think they’d avoid talking about Medicare, given the
fact that both of them have proposed voucherizing Medicare
system,” Obama said in Windham, New Hampshire. “I guess they
figure that the best defense is to try to go on offense. So New
Hampshire, here’s what you need to know -- since I have been in
office, I have strengthened Medicare.”  Medicare Debate  Ryan’s addition to the Republican ticket has thrust
Medicare, the national health program for the elderly, to the
forefront of the campaign debate.  In few states is the issue so important as in Florida, with
18 percent of its 19 million residents 65 or older, the most in
the nation. Florida, the biggest  electoral  prize among states
both Romney and Obama view as competitive, has 3.3 million
enrolled in Medicare, more than any state except  California .  Among those Floridians covered by Medicare is Ryan’s
mother, Betty Ryan Douglas, a 78-year-old Lauderdale-by-the-Sea
resident who joined her son on stage. There’s precedent for
candidates in Florida showcasing their mothers: Republican
Governor  Rick Scott  aired a TV ad during his 2010 race showing
his mother, Esther, telling viewers, “He’s a good boy.”  Ryan said his mother “relies” on the federal health
insurance program. Ryan said she “planned her retirement around
this promise that the government made her.”  Ryan’s Plan  Ryan is the architect of a fiscal plan that includes
spending cuts and the eventual transformation of Medicare into a
federal subsidy for private insurance coverage. His plan
wouldn’t affect current recipients or those 55 years and older.  Jen Psaki, traveling press secretary for Obama’s re-
election campaign, said “we know Florida seniors are smart.”
When they “take a look at the details of the Romney-Ryan
plan,” she said, “they’re going to take a close look at that,
and we feel good about what the result will be.”  Campaigning in New Hampshire, Obama said Ryan’s plan would
let the wealthiest Americans such as Romney pay less than 1
percent in taxes and would “actually raise taxes on middle
class families with children by an average of $2,000.”  “Here’s the kicker: he expects you to pick up the tab,”
Obama said. “They have tried to sell us this trickle-down snake
oil before. It didn’t work then and it won’t work now.”  Obama’s campaign criticizes Ryan’s plan as a “voucher”
that would “end Medicare as we know it.” Romney’s team
counters that Obama’s health care plan weakens Medicare with
cuts that undermine its long-term sustainability.  Ryan’s View  Ryan said Obama “raids” Medicare to pay for the
Democrat’s health care changes. The 2010 Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act cuts projected Medicare spending by $716
billion over a decade with reduced rates to hospitals, drug
companies and insurers. Those reductions don’t affect the
benefits elderly people are guaranteed under the program.  Ryan said the changes will force one of every six hospitals
and nursing homes to go out of business and end Medicare
Advantage -- an option that allows the elderly to buy coverage
from private insurers -- for 4 million seniors. He also
criticized the Independent Advisory Payment Board, a panel
created by the new law, as “bureaucrats in charge of Medicare
who are required to cut Medicare in ways that will lead to
denied care for current seniors.”  Piggy-Bank  “Medicare should not be used as a piggy-bank for
Obamacare,” said Ryan, standing in front of a banner that read
“Protect & Strengthen Medicare.”  Ryan, whose Medicare plan maintained the $716-billion cut,
said he would join Romney in restoring that money.  “We will end the raid of Medicare, we will restore the
promise of this program and we will make sure this board of
bureaucrats will not mess with my mom’s health care or your
mom’s health care,” Ryan said.  Outside the morning rally, which included a Bloody Mary
bar, a Chick-fil-A tent selling breakfast sandwiches and country
music singer Lee Greenwood leading the crowd in patriotic songs,
about two dozen seniors protested Ryan’s visit, holding signs
including one that read “Keep your Mitts off my  Social
Security .”  An airplane flew above the rally with a banner reading,
“ Paul Ryan : Keep your hands off our Medicare.”  “No health insurance company will insure you if you’re a
senior and I don’t care how big the voucher is,” said Preston
Davis, a 74-year-old Democrat who lives in The Villages and said
he returned to work to be able to afford health insurance.  Ryan, meanwhile, received a loud response from a crowd of
hundreds of supporters, including Richard Kenney, a 60-year-old
retired salesman.  “The vouchers make sense,” said Kenney, wearing a red,
white and blue baseball hat embossed with “U.S.A.” in block
letters. “It’s better to protect the programs we can than let
it all hit a brick wall.”  Close Race  In a Public Policy Poll of Floridians on July 29, Obama had
a 1 percentage point lead over Romney, a statistical tie. Romney
had the advantage among voters 65 and older in the poll by a
margin of 52 percent to 44 percent.  In 2008, seniors accounted for 22 percent of Florida’s
electorate and split 45 percent for Obama and 53 percent for
Republican  John McCain , exit polls show. Voters between the ages
of 45-64 made up 37 percent of the electorate and divided  52
percent for Obama to 47 percent for McCain.  Obama won Florida by 2.8 percentage points.  Florida is the sixth state Ryan has visited in as many days
since Romney selected him as his running mate. Ryan also
attended a private fundraiser at the Club at Treasure Island in
the Tampa Bay area. Hosts included William Isaac, former
chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., and billionaire
H. Gary Morse, developer of The Villages.  Romney’s Fundraisers  Romney attended his own fundraisers on Cape Cod,  Martha’s
Vineyard  and Nantucket, concluding a two-day tour of Southampton
and  New England  expected to raise nearly $7 million, according
to campaign finance director  Spencer Zwick .  Romney attended one event at the Osterville, Massachusetts,
home of Bill Koch, a brother to David and  Charles Koch , multi-
billionaire co-owners of  Koch Industries  and major donors to
conservative causes. The ticket price was $50,000 per-person, in
either money raised or contributed.  He was attending two events on Nantucket, with  Barry Sternlicht , founder of Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc.,
hosting a reception at his home, and Jeffrey Jay, a private
equity executive, hosting a $75,000-per person beachside dinner
for the Republican candidate.  “Campaigns now have to spend a disproportionate amount of
time fundraising,” Romney said on his plane before departure
from Martha’s Vineyard. “You appreciate all the help you get,
but you wish you could spend more time on the campaign trail.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in The Villages, Florida at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Windham, New Hampshire at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  