-- Southern Africa Nations Urge Rwanda to End Support for Rebels
-- B y   A n d r e s   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-08-18T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/southern-africa-nations-urge-rwanda-to-end-support-for-rebels.html
The 15-nation  Southern African
Development Community  will send a delegation to  Rwanda  to urge
the government to end support for a rebel group in Congo, where
fighting has displaced hundreds of thousands of people.  Rwanda must “cease immediately its interference that
constitutes a threat to peace and stability not only to the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo, but also to the SADC region,”
Executive Director Augusto Salomao said in Maputo,  Mozambique ,
yesterday, after two days of meetings between heads of states of
the region. A delegation will be sent to “engage the government
of Rwanda with the aim of urging Rwanda to stop military support
to the rebels.”  About 470,000 Congolese have fled the eastern part of the
nation since April to avoid fighting between rebel forces and
the military, the UN said July 27. The battle also threatens
mining operations, according to Barclays Plc. North Kivu
province is home to the largest tin-ore mine in Congo and has
deposits of gold, tungsten and coltan, which is used in laptops
and mobile phones.  Congolese President  Joseph Kabila  met with Rwandan
President  Paul Kagame  in Kampala, Uganda, last week after his
country alleged that Rwanda supported an ethnic Tutsi-led
rebellion in eastern Congo. The talks ended without a decision.  Rebel Leader  Fighting resumed in Congo’s two eastern Kivu provinces in
April when M23, a group of former rebels headed by General Bosco Ntaganda, deserted the army. Ntaganda is wanted by the Hague-
based ICC for allegedly recruiting child soldiers.  SADC will also request humanitarian aid from international
agencies to help those displaced in eastern Congo, Salomao said.  The regional group held its annual meetings in Maputo this
year, where they also discussed the political situation in
Zimbabwe and Madagascar. Malawi’s President Joyce Banda was
elected next chairwoman of SADC and Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete was chosen as head of the Troika, which deals with
security matters in the region, Salomao said.  SADC urged Zimbabwe’s President  Robert Mugabe  and Prime
Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai  to speed up the writing of a new
constitution that will allow the country to hold elections,
Salomao said.  The region’s finance ministers approved creation of an
infrastructure fund with $1.2 billion of initial capital,
Salomao said. The region will also have a grain deficit of about
4.5 million tons this year and will need aid to prevent the
shortage from worsening, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Maputo, Mozambique at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  