-- Sweden Should Cut Company Taxes, Boost Investments, PM Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-08-18T14:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/sweden-should-cut-company-taxes-boost-investments-pm-says-1-.html
Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said he will seek to raise spending on infrastructure
projects and research next year and lower corporate taxes to
boost the potential of the largest Nordic economy,  The economy has shown “great resilience” to  Europe ’s debt
crisis, the premier told reporters today at a press briefing on
a boat in the Stockholm archipelago.  “It’s about using our capacity to build a strong  Sweden  in
the long-term and to invest and equip ourselves to protect jobs
and get more jobs and more investors to come to Sweden,”
Reinfeldt said.  The government may be able to spend more than previously
predicted next year after growth exceeded estimates last
quarter, Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said last week. The
economy grew 2.3 percent in the second quarter, compared with
analyst estimates of 0.6 percent.  The government parties have agreed to lower the corporate
tax to 24 percent from 26.3 percent,  Svenska Dagbladet  reported
today, citing people familiar with the plan. The reduction will
cost 6.3 billion kronor ($942 million) and be financed by
limiting some corporate interest deductions, the newspaper said.  Reinfeldt said today he would push for a more forceful
corporate  tax cut  than what can be paid for by closing the
loophole on interest deductions. The premier will need to agree
on budget measures with the remaining parties in his coalition.
Next year’s fiscal policy will be presented on Sept. 20.  The premier today also called for the four government
parties to create a joint platform ahead of 2014 parliamentary
elections in a letter published in newspaper Dagens Nyheter. The
minority government, headed by Reinfeldt’s Moderate party, has
presented joint policies ahead of both of their election
victories in 2006 and 2010. The government also consists of the
Liberal, the Center, and the Christian Democratic parties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  