-- Swisher Hits 2 of Yankees’ 5 Homers in 6-4 Win Over Red Sox
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-08-18T04:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/swisher-hits-2-of-yankees-5-home-runs-in-6-4-win-over-red-sox.html
Nick Swisher  blasted home runs from
each side of the plate and  Derek Jeter  hit his 250th homer as
the New York Yankees defeated the Boston Red Sox 6-4 in a Major
League Baseball contest.  Curtis Granderson and Russell Martin hit back-to-back home
runs in the second inning last night to give the Yankees a 3-0
advantage at Yankee Stadium where New York took a 1-0 lead in
the teams’ three-game series.  Swisher, who collected his 19th career multi-homer game,
sent the ball out of the park from both sides of the plate in a
game for the 12th time in his career, second in MLB history to
teammate  Mark Teixeira , who has 13.  “That’s one cool thing, being a switch-hitter, because
it’s rare you feel good from both sides of the plate at the same
time,” Swisher told reporters. “Just to be able to have a game
like that, especially against the Red Sox, we want to continue
playing the way were playing this week; just keep on pushing.”  Pedro Ciriaco drove in  Mike Aviles  for the Red Sox’s first
run, followed by Dustin Pedroia’s three-run homer that gave
Boston a 4-3 lead in the third inning.  Jeter Joins Mays  Jeter, who made the score 4-4 in the fifth inning with his
home run, is tied with Graig Nettles for ninth place on the
Yankees’ all-time home-run list. He joins Willie Mays as the
only players to record at least 3,000 hits, 250 home runs, 300
stolen bases and 1,200 runs batted in.  “I always hear all the time that I don’t hit home runs,
but in my mind, that’s a lot of them,” Jeter said. “So it’s
something I’m happy with. I try to be consistent every year, to
do my job, like I’ve always said.”  Casey McGehee scored the tie-breaking run for the Yankees
on Jayson Nix’s sixth-inning single.  Phil Hughes  (12-10) allowed four runs on four hits and
struck out four in seven innings for the Yankees. He retired 13
of the final 15 batters he faced.  Rafael Soriano  threw a
scoreless ninth inning for his 30th save.  ‘Really Pitched’  “I thought he (Hughes) really pitched tonight,” Yankees
manager Joe Girardi told reporters. “He threw more change-ups
tonight than he’s probably done in four or five starts combined.
He threw them to right-handers, left-handers and that really
kept them off balance.”  Red Sox starter Franklin Morales (3-4) surrendered five
runs on six hits, including four home runs, and struck out three
in 5 1/3 innings.  With Jeter tallying his 10th home run of the season, the
Yankees lead the majors with 10 players who have at least 10
home runs, including Robinson Cano,  Eric Chavez , Granderson,
 Raul Ibanez ,  Andruw Jones , Martin,  Alex Rodriguez , Swisher and
Teixeira.  The Yankees improved their record to 71-48 to retain their
spot atop the American League. The Red Sox (58-62) are in fourth
place in the five-team AL East, 13 ½ games behind the Yankees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  