-- Syria Vice President Al-Shara’s Office Denies He Defected
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-08-18T22:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/syria-vice-president-al-shara-s-office-denies-he-defected.html
Syrian state television reported
that the office of Vice President Faruq al-Shara denied reports
he had defected and left the country as rebels continued to
clash with the army to end President Bashar al-Assad’s regime.  Shara “never thought one moment of leaving the country,”
Syrian Television reported, citing a statement from his office.
The vice president is working with all sides to end the
bloodshed and achieve “national reconciliation that would
protect  Syria ’s unity and national independence away from
foreign military intervention,” the broadcaster said.  Dubai-based Al Arabiya television earlier reported that
Shara had defected to neighboring Jordan. Syrian Prime Minister
Riad Hijab defected earlier this month to Jordan amid fighting
that started 17 months ago. Hijab and Shara, like many of the
rebels are  Sunni Muslims , while the Assad regime is dominated by
members of the Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiite Islam.  Sameeh Maayteh, Jordan’s minister of state for media
affairs and communications, declined to comment on the alleged
defection. “When there is something to say on this, we will say
it,” he said by phone from Amman.  Fighting continued yesterday between government forces and
rebels in Damascus suburbs, near a military airport in the
northern city of Aleppo, in the eastern province of Deir Ezzor
and in the central Homs province, according to e-mailed
statements from the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights .  Bodies Discovered  The bodies of dozens of men from 30 to 40 years were
discovered in the al-Tal region, near Damascus, that was
attacked by government troops last week, the group said.  Syrian security forces killed 172 people yesterday,  CNN 
reported, citing the opposition Local Coordination Committees of
Syria. A total of 23,337 people have been killed, including
16,384 civilians, since the unrest erupted last year, the Syrian
Observatory said on its website.  Shara welcomed the United Nation’s announcement last week
that veteran Algerian diplomat Lakhdar Brahimi has replaced  Kofi Annan  as the Joint Special Representative for Syria, state
television said. A United Nations-arranged cease-fire agreed in
April has failed to halt fighting.  The Obama administration is reviewing the possibility of a
no-fly zone to protect Syrian civilians from air attacks, White
House counter-terrorism adviser  John Brennan  said on Aug. 8. The
president of the opposition Syrian National Council, Abdelbaset Sieda, called on Aug. 12 for the creation of a no-fly zone in
border areas.  Russia  is against imposing a no-fly zone in Syria, as it
will be a violation of its sovereignty, Russian Foreign Minister
 Sergei Lavrov  said in an interview aired yesterday on Sky News
Arabia. The Syrian president cannot be asked to withdraw his
troops unilaterally, he said, adding that both the government
and the rebels had committed “violations.”  Russia, which has its only military base outside the former
 Soviet Union  in the Syrian port of Tartus and has been allied to
the country since the Soviet era, hasn’t made any new agreements
with the Syrian government for weapons deliveries, Lavrov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  