-- Wal-Mart, Indiana Grower Pull Fruit After Outbreak
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-08-18T20:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/wal-mart-grower-in-indiana-pull-cantaloupe-following-outbreak.html
(Corrects spelling of spokeswoman’s last name in second
paragraph.)  An unidentified farm in southwestern
 Indiana  is withdrawing cantaloupe from the marketplace following
a  salmonella  outbreak that has sickened 141 people and killed
two in 20 U.S. states, federal regulators said.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. also began contacting outlets last
night and instructing them to withdraw cantaloupe grown in
southwestern Indiana as a precaution, Dianna Gee, a spokeswoman
for the retailer, said in an interview today. Sam’s Club isn’t
impacted because they don’t source cantaloupes from the area,
she said.  “At this time, we have no indication or confirmation that
any of the cantaloupes were sold at Wal-Mart,” Gee said.
“However, in an abundance of caution, we have voluntarily
removed all cantaloupes sourced from southwestern Indiana until
investigators can determine the exact source of contamination.”  As a result of initial investigations by state health
departments, a farm in southwestern Indiana has contacted
distributors and is withdrawing its cantaloupe from the
marketplace, the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in
Atlanta said last night. The farm has agreed to cease
distributing cantaloupes for the rest of the growing season.  Consumers who recently bought cantaloupes grown in
southwestern Indiana are being advised not to eat them and to
discard any remaining fruit, the CDC said.  FDA Investigating  Among those sickened, 31 were hospitalized, the U.S.  Food
and Drug Administration  said yesterday in a statement. Kentucky
had the most reports of illness, 50, followed by Illinois with
17 and Indiana with 13, according to the statement.  “FDA officials are actively investigating potential
sources of the outbreak, and will continue to update the public
as more specific information becomes available,” the FDA said.  Almost a year ago, 146 people were sickened and at least 30
died from listeria linked to cantaloupe grown at Jensen Farms in
Granada,  Colorado . That outbreak was the deadliest in almost 90
years.  “It is great that state health departments give us the
numbers, but why not the name of the farm where the cantaloupes
were grown, and more importantly, what grocery stores they were
sold at,”  Bill Marler , a lawyer at Marler Clark LLP in  Seattle 
who represents more than 40 victims of the Jensen Farms
outbreak, said in an e-mail.  Salmonella, a bacteria, remains the most frequent cause of
foodborne infections in the U.S. with an estimated 1.2 million
people stricken each year and $365 million in direct medical
expenditures, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in
Atlanta reported in June 2011.  Kentucky Tests  In Kentucky, two tests on the cantaloupes connected to the
outbreak showed the same strain of salmonella that has stricken
consumers in the state, said Beth Fisher, a spokeswoman for the
Cabinet for Health and Family Services. The first illnesses
began in the second week of July, she said in a telephone
interview.  The number of ill persons identified in each state is as
follows: Alabama, 7; Arkansas, 3; California, 2; Georgia, 1;
Illinois, 17; Indiana, 13; Iowa, 7;  Kentucky , 50; Michigan, 6;
Minnesota, 3; Missouri, 9; Mississippi, 2; New Jersey, 1; North
Carolina, 3; Ohio, 3; Pennsylvania, 2; South Carolina, 3;
Tennessee, 6; Texas, 1; and Wisconsin, 2, according to the FDA.  Most people infected with salmonella develop diarrhea,
fever, and abdominal cramps 12 to 72 hours after infection. The
illness usually lasts 4 to 7 days and most people recover
without treatment, according to the FDA.  In some people, the diarrhea may be so severe that the
patient may need to be hospitalized. In these patients, the
infection may spread from the intestines to the blood stream,
and then to other sites in the body and can cause death unless
treated promptly with antibiotics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  