-- West Brom Beats Liverpool in Premier League; Swansea Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-18T19:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-18/west-brom-beats-liverpool-on-premier-league-return-swansea-wins.html
West Bromwich beat Liverpool 3-0 and
Swansea and Fulham both won 5-0 on the opening day of English
soccer’s new Premier League season.  Zoltan Gera,  Peter Odemwingie  and Romelu Lukuaku scored as
West Brom gave Steve Clarke a win in his first game as manager
today, spoiling Brendan Rodgers’s debut as Liverpool coach.  Rodger’s former team Swansea won emphatically at Queen’s
Park Rangers and Fulham routed Norwich at home. Arsenal drew 0-0
with Sunderland, while both promoted teams earned points with
West Ham beating Aston Villa 1-0 and Reading rallying for a 1-1
tie against Stoke. Newcastle beat Tottenham 2-1.  Gera put West Brom in front two minutes before halftime at
the Hawthorns with a shot from outside the area. Liverpool’s
 Daniel Agger  was shown a red card 12 minutes into the second
half for a foul in the area on  Shane Long , whose penalty attempt
was stopped by Pepe Reina.  Odemwinge doubled the lead from the penalty spot in the
64th minute after Long was tripped by Martin Skrtl. Substitute
Romelu Lukaku completed the scoring with a header.  “You work through a preseason and you want to get the
focus on the first game,” Clarke told  Sky Sports . “The players
showed they were ready for this game.”  Miguel Michu and Nathan Dyer each scored twice and  Scott Sinclair  added one as Swansea made new coach Michael Laudrup a
winner with the away rout of QPR.  Song Sale  Mladen Petric netted twice to lead Fulham past Norwich at
Craven Cottage. Damien Duff, Alex Kacaniklic and Steve Sidwell
also had goals for Fulham.  Arsenal dominated play at the Emirates Stadium but had to
settle for the draw with Sunderland. It was the Gunners’ first
match without former captain  Robin van Persie , who signed a
four-year contract with Manchester United yesterday.  After the game, Arsenal  announced  on its website it’s
agreed to sell midfielder  Alex Song  to Barcelona. Song will sign
a five-year contract after his 19 million-euro ($23 million)
move, Barcelona said on its website.  Kevin Nolan’s goal in the 40th minute gave promoted West
Ham the home win. Adam Le Fondre’s penalty kick in the final
minute earned fellow newcomer Reading the draw with Stoke.
Michael Kightly scored for Stoke, which had Dean Whitehead sent
off for a second yellow card, resulting in Le Fondre’s penalty.  Hatem  Ben Arfa  scored with a penalty kick in the 80th minute
to give Newcastle the home win over Tottenham. Demba Ba put
Newcastle in front early in the second half and Jermain Defoe
tied it for Tottenham in the 76th minute.  Manchester City opens its title defense against promoted
Southampton and Chelsea visits Wigan in tomorrow’s games, while
Everton hosts  Manchester United  in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  