-- 
Afghan ‘War-Weariness’ in U.S. Won’t Damp Intention to Succeed, Gates Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-04T10:35:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/afghan-war-weariness-in-u-s-won-t-damp-intention-to-succeed-gates-says.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates ,
landing in Afghanistan today, said there is “war-weariness” at
home as the Obama administration considers a troop drawdown
starting next month.  “Success of the mission should override everything else,
because the most costly thing of all would be to fail,” Gates
told reporters traveling with him before his arrival in Kabul.
“That does not preclude adjustments in the mission or the
strategy, but ultimately the objective has to be success.”  President  Barack Obama  must consider the security situation
in Afghanistan, congressional support and the fact other members
of the NATO-led coalition are anxious to wind down their
involvement, Gates said. U.S. Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said June 2 that the cost of the war
is also central to the White House decision.  “We certainly don’t want to precipitate a rush for the
exits by our partners,” Gates said. “By the same token, you
can’t be oblivious to the growing war-weariness at home and
diminishing support in the Congress.”  Gates’s visit to  Afghanistan  is his 12th and last as
defense secretary. He is retiring this month. Obama has
nominated Leon Panetta, director of the Central Intelligence
Agency, to succeed Gates.  Members of Congress, such as Senate Armed Services
Committee Chairman  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, have said
the killing of  Osama bin Laden  last month clears the way for a
substantial troop reduction. About 100,000 U.S. soldiers are in
Afghanistan today, according to the Pentagon.  Pullout Timetable  Administration officials and leaders from Afghanistan have
cautioned that the country isn’t yet secure and could again be a
haven for terrorists, as it was before the U.S. ousted the
Taliban from power after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  U.S. military gains against the Taliban over the past year
have “degraded” its capabilities and opened the possibility
for a political settlement, Gates said today at the
International Institute for Security Studies Asia Security
Summit, known as the Shangri-La Dialogue, in  Singapore . He
called on the group to sever its ties with al-Qaeda, recognize
the constitution and lay down their arms.  “Perhaps this winter, the possibility of some kind of
political talks or reconciliation might be substantive enough to
offer some hope of progress,” Gates said. The Taliban
“potentially have a political role in the future in that
country.”  Gates plans to discuss pullout scenarios with U.S. Army
General David Petraeus, the top U.S. and NATO commander in
Afghanistan, and meet with Afghan President  Hamid Karzai .
Petraeus has been chosen by Obama to succeed Panetta at the CIA.  Afghan Budget  The Pentagon budget for the 2011 fiscal year, which ends
Sept. 30, includes $113.5 billion for the Afghanistan mission.
The fiscal year 2012 budget allocates $107.3 billion.  The troops who serve -- and those who’ve died -- in
Afghanistan and  Iraq  are the one topic that can make Gates, a
former director of the CIA, choke up in public. He plans to
spend time with service members during the visit.  “This is principally an opportunity for me to thank the
troops and bid them farewell,” he said, his voice thickening
and then growing quiet at the end of the sentence. He paused.
“So I don’t expect it to be a very easy trip.”  Gates has pursued better conditions for forces in the
battle zones, including equipment upgrades. He speaks often of
having come into office in 2006 to discover a Pentagon
bureaucracy seemingly oblivious to the needs of the war fighter.  More Troops  Gates backed a 2009 request for 40,000 additional troops
from his Afghanistan commander at the time, Army General Stanley McChrystal, and Petraeus, who was the regional military chief at
the time. Months later, Petraeus became the ground commander
when McChrystal resigned, following an article that included
disparaging remarks by his staff about the leadership in the
White House.  Obama in December 2009 authorized the injection of 30,000
American troops and wrested almost 10,000 more from others in
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization-led coalition. The
condition was that the U.S. would begin a drawdown this July,
nine months after the buildup was complete.  The administration has since supported Karzai’s target of
2014 to complete a handover of security responsibility to the
Afghan government.  Gates has said that the 2014 timeline doesn’t necessarily
require removing all American troops by then. Rather, as in
Iraq, Afghans would take the lead and the U.S. would recede into
a training and support role, probably for years longer.  In July, Afghanistan’s national army will take over
security in three provinces and four cities, replacing foreign
troops. Afghan forces will take over most of Kabul province and
the main cities in the north and northwest, Mazar-e-Sharif and
Herat, Karzai said.  The July drawdown of coalition troops may be nominal, with
more forces coming out later this year, as the announcement of a
decision has been nudged to at least the end of this month and
the movement of thousands of troops takes time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Kabul, Afghanistan, at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  