-- 
Andre Agassi, Jim Courier Predict Nadal Will Beat Federer in French Final

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-04T22:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/agassi-courier-predict-nadal-will-beat-federer-at-french-open.html
Rafael Nadal is the favorite to win
his sixth  French Open  title in today’s Roland Garros final
against  Roger Federer , former champions  Andre Agassi  and Jim Courier said.  Switzerland’s Federer beat No. 2 Novak Djokovic in four
sets to advance to the French Open tennis final. Top-ranked
Nadal overcame  Andy Murray , the No. 4 seed from Britain,
in the other semifinal.  Djokovic’s loss ended his winning streak to start the
season at 41 matches, one away from John McEnroe’s 1984 record.
It also prevented the Serb from replacing the Spaniard as the No.
1 player in the ATP World Tour rankings unless Nadal loses the
final.  “You would have to favor Nadal because he tends to be more
comfortable against Federer than Federer is against him,''
Agassi, a winner of eight Grand Slam singles titles, said at
a press conference at  Roland Garros  yesterday. ``Really,
tennis is about how you are on the day and how you deal with the
pressure of that moment.”  Jim Courier, who won the French Open in 1991 and 1992,
agreed.  “Roger surprised me that he was able to take Novak
Djokovic out,” Courier said, sitting alongside Agassi. “Roger
played beautifully and aggressively. It’s the kind of tennis
he’s going to need to play again against Rafa. It’s a match-up
conversation and Rafa has had the better end of those match-
ups.”  Federer last beat Nadal in a Grand Slam final in 2007 at
Wimbledon. The two last met in a major final at the 2009
Australian Open, which Nadal won in five sets. Federer, who
trails the Spaniard 16-8 in career meetings, has lost three
previous French Open finals to Nadal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 