-- 
Belarus Wins $3 Billion Loan From Russia-Led Fund, Still Seeks IMF’s Help

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-06-04T18:34:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/belarus-wins-3-billion-loan-from-russian-led-fund-still-seeks-imf-s-help.html
Belarus will receive a $3 billion,
10-year loan from the Russian-led Eurasian Economic Community’s
anti-crisis fund, Russian Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said.  The first tranche of the credit will be for $800 million
and will be disbursed in 10 to 15 days, while a second tranche
of $440 million may be distributed by the end of the year,
Kudrin told reporters today in Kiev.  Belarus, which devalued its currency by 36 percent against
the dollar last month, is seeking foreign currency to help cover
a current-account deficit that reached 16 percent of gross
domestic product last year. The east European country is also
seeking a separate bailout package from the  International
Monetary Fund  and hopes to sign an agreement in three months,
Belarusian Finance Minister  Andrei Kharkovets  said today.  “Our needs will be defined after the IMF completes its
mission,” Kharkovets told reporters in Kiev. The size and
maturity of a package from the Washington-based lender “will be
determined by the country’s financing needs and its balance of
payments.”  The Russian-led  Eurasian Economic Community  founded a $10
billion anti-crisis fund in 2009 to help members overcome
consequences of the global financial crisis. The community’s
members are Russia,  Kazakhstan , Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan
and Uzbekistan. Russia contributed $7.5 billion to the fund,
which still had $8.1 billion available to lend, Kudrin said
earlier today.  Asset Sales  Belarus will not have to make payments on the loan
principal for three years, Kudrin said. The country agreed to
other measures to boost capital inflows, including $7.5 billion
in state asset sales, he said. The sales should be competitive,
Kudrin said.  Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko said May 25 that
 Russia ’s insistence on asset sales was a way to profit from the
country’s difficult financial position. Belarus “will not throw
anything to anybody for nothing,” he said, the Belta news
agency reported.  “The program’s aim is to increase our gold and foreign
currency reserves,” Kharkovets said, referring to the
conditions on the $3 billion loan. “One of the sources for that
is privatization.”  The loan has a floating interest rate tied to the average
yield of Russian and Kazakh bonds with a similar maturity,
Sergei Shatalov, managing director of the anti-crisis fund, told
reporters. “Kazakh debt right now isn’t trading on global
markets, so we will take Russian securities with a comparable
maturity.”  At current rates, the rate would be 4.1 percent to 4.2
percent, Shatalov said.  “If you look at the financial terms of this loan to
Belarus, this is a stabilization loan to support the balance of
payments,” Shatalov said. “More than anything this is like an
 International Monetary Fund  program.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Kiev at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net . 