-- 
Brazil’s Palocci Denies He Lobbied Government as Consultant

-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-06-04T01:54:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/brazil-s-palocci-denies-he-lobbied-government-as-consultant-1-.html
Brazilian Cabinet Chief  Antonio Palocci  said he never lobbied the public administration while
working as a consultant to businesses and that he can continue
in his post without provoking a government crisis.  Palocci, in an interview on TV Globo, reiterated that he
cannot name the 20 to 25 banks, investment funds and other
companies he provided consulting services to because the
contracts are confidential. He said “not a single cent” of his
earnings last year was related to his work managing President
 Dilma Rousseff ’s campaign. All of his income, which may have
reached 20 million reais ($12.7 million) last year, was reported
to tax authorities, he said.  “There’s no crisis in the government. This is a personal
issue about me, with strong political overtones,” Palocci said.
“There’s nothing harder to prove than what one didn’t do.”  Rousseff is facing rising pressure from both political
opponents and allies to dismiss Palocci, who may face a formal
probe from the general prosecutor and be called to testify
before lawmakers. Senator Pedro Simon, from Vice President
Michel Temer’s Democratic Movement Party, said in the Senate
yesterday that Palocci should resign.  Palocci promised to clarify all questions from the general
prosecutor and provide documents to prove he didn’t break the
law. He hasn’t discussed the case with Rousseff and that he
continues working normally, he said.  20 Million Reais  Palocci said newspaper reports that he earned 20 million
reais last year as a consultant are probably accurate, and he
stopped consulting after Rousseff was elected in October.  As a consultant, he advised companies to get rid of
contracts tied to the dollar after the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Inc ., Palocci said.  “An interview by itself won’t be enough to ensure that
Palocci continues in the government,” Rafael Cortez, an analyst
at Tendencias Consultoria Integrada and professor of political
science at Pontificia Universidade Catolica in Sao Paulo, said
before the interview. “Whether he stays or not, the government
will need to change its strategy and Dilma will need to get
closer to the congress to seek approval of important
legislation.”  The Brazilian government coalition in the lower house will
try to block Palocci’s summons from the agricultural committee
to explain his increase in wealth, Institutional Affairs
Minister Luiz Sergio Oliveira said June 1.  Consulting  Another Palocci interview with Folha de S.Paulo will be
published tomorrow, the newspaper said on its website. On May 15,
the Sao Paulo-based newspaper reported that Palocci paid 6.6
million reais ($4 million) for a  Sao Paulo  apartment last year.
On May 20, Folha reported he earned 20 million reais in
consultancy fees in 2010 while also serving in congress and
managing Rousseff’s election campaign.  Brazil ’s federal prosecutor Jose Rocha Junior will
investigate whether Palocci’s consulting fee earnings broke the
law. Brazil’s general prosecutor, Roberto Gurgel, responsible
for investigating possible criminal conduct by Cabinet ministers,
has made two requests to Palocci to explain the jump in his
personal wealth. The prosecutor has no deadline for presenting
his findings.  Palocci’s consulting firm, Projeto Consultoria Financeira e
Economica Ltda, stopped advising companies when he was named
Cabinet chief. The company earned 160,000 reais in 2006, its
first year of business, Folha de S.Paulo reported.  Government Service  Palocci rose to national prominence when he served as
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s finance minister from 2003
to 2006.  As finance minister, Palocci paid $15.5 billion in loans to
the  International Monetary Fund  ahead of schedule and sponsored
a bankruptcy law favoring creditors over workers.  Palocci also helped craft regulations allowing loan
payments to be deducted from paychecks, which helped fuel a
record expansion of credit among low-income families. During his
time as minister, inflation slowed to 5.3 percent from 17.2
percent. The benchmark Bovespa stock index more than doubled.  Palocci, 50, resigned in March 2006 after lawmakers accused
him of illegally obtaining and leaking the private banking
records of a witness in a bribery investigation that targeted
senior officials of Lula’s Workers’ Party.  The witness, a caretaker, placed Palocci at a Brasilia
residence where politicians and lobbyists allegedly negotiated
bribes and partied with prostitutes.  Palocci denied any wrongdoing. The  Supreme Court  cleared
him of breaking bank secrecy laws in 2009.  Palocci should explain his earnings by taking questions at
a news conference and testifying before congress, Workers’ Party
Senator Eduardo Suplicy said in an interview yesterday. Palocci
didn’t commit any wrongdoing, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  