-- 
Budget Cuts, War Fatigue Won’t Deter U.S. Involvement in Asia, Gates Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-04T02:52:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/budget-cuts-war-fatigue-won-t-deter-u-s-involvement-in-asia-gates-says.html
Budget cuts and the American public’s
war weariness won’t be an obstacle to expanding military
engagement in the Asia-Pacific region, Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  told a forum in Singapore today.  A plan to deploy in Singapore new U.S. ships designed to
operate close to shore and an ongoing study to develop an air-
sea battle plan for longer-range operations are among
initiatives Gates described in his remarks. The idea, he said,
is to strengthen and expand the U.S. reach beyond  Japan  and
 South Korea  to include more of Southeast  Asia  and the Indian
Ocean.  “America is, as the expression goes, ‘putting our money
where our mouth is’ with respect to this part of the world --
and will continue to do so,” Gates told the annual
International Institute for Security Studies Asia Security
Summit, known as the  Shangri-La Dialogue . “These programs are
on track to grow and evolve further in the future, even in the
face of new threats abroad and fiscal challenges at home.”  Gates is punctuating his overseas farewell tour before
retiring from office at the end of this month with overtures to
ease tensions with China alongside reassurances to traditional
allies and emerging powers in the Asia-Pacific region. He sought
to show the U.S. has the will and the wherewithal to stay active
in the region even as $400 billion in planned defense cuts
threaten personnel and weapons cuts.  Cost Burden  That might require U.S. allies to shoulder more of the
costs, the defense secretary said.  The  U.S. Congress  is “willing to support our forward
presence, but they are going to want to ensure the terms of this
presence are equitable and that the financial interests of the
American people are being looked at as well,” Gates said.  The types of weapons systems that are particularly useful
for U.S. military strategy in Asia -- such as long-range strike,
maritime access and cyber-warfare technology -- will be high
priorities and most likely to survive budget cuts, he said.  Gates, who is on his seventh trip to the region in 18
months, cited “the significant growth in the breadth and
intensity of U.S. engagement in Asia in recent years, even at a
time of economic distress at home and two major military
campaigns ongoing in Iraq and  Afghanistan .”  “We recognize that the American defense engagement -- from
our forward deployed forces to exercises with regional partners
-- will continue to play an indispensable role in the stability
of the region,” he said.  China Talks  Gates paired the reassurances today with an optimistic tone
yesterday in a meeting with his Chinese counterpart, Defense
Minister General Liang Guanglie.  He said the two countries should press forward with easing
tensions between them by working on concerns they have in common,
such as  North Korea  and anti-piracy efforts without letting
differences such as U.S. arms sales to  Taiwan  get in the way.  The tone was different from the same forum a year ago, when
Gates raised the issue of territorial disputes between  China  and
other countries around the  South China Sea . That came after
leaders in Beijing suspended defense talks earlier in the year
over a U.S. announcement of the latest weapons transfer to
Taiwan, which the Chinese consider a renegade province that
should be reunited with the mainland by force if necessary.  “Both the U.S. and China realized at the end of 2010 that
the deterioration in the bilateral relationship was not good for
any side,” said Li Mingjiang, a professor at the Singapore-
based S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies. Now, he
said, “there seems to be a willingness from either side to be
cautious on issues that are sensitive to both sides.”  Alliances, Partnerships  Still, the U.S. isn’t naïve and plans to continue forging
alliances and partnerships to reinforce its influence and
respond to requests from an increasing number of nations in the
region for joint security projects, said U.S. defense officials
briefing reporters yesterday on condition of anonymity.  The U.S. has become more active in Asean, the  Association
of Southeast Asian Nations , and other regional forums. Gates
warned of “increasing” tensions in the South China Sea if
Asean and China fail to agree on a binding code of conduct.  “I fear that without rules of the road and without agreed
approaches to dealing with these problems, that there will be
clashes,” Gates said. “That serves nobody’s interest.”  The Obama administration also is considering increasing
joint naval capabilities to respond more rapidly to humanitarian
disasters, improving facilities in the  Indian Ocean , possibly
with  Australia , and expanding exercises for amphibious and land
operations with other countries, Gates said.  New Technology  Even considering the disputes between the two sides, the
Chinese haven’t raised objections to the technology the U.S. is
developing, the U.S. defense officials.  Citing ongoing territorial disputes between China and other
countries in the region, Gates also reiterated the U.S.
“national interest in freedom of navigation, unimpeded economic
development and commerce and the respect for international
law.”  In his speech, Gates reviewed several instances
historically in which the Asian region doubted the U.S.
commitment to staying involved. He cited examples in each case
that he said proved the doubters wrong.  “I believe our work in Asia is laying the groundwork for
continued prosperity and security for the  United States  and for
the region,” he said. “As I leave the United States government,
I have no doubt that future generations will have a similar
story to tell about the benefits of American power, presence and
commitment in this region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger en route to  Singapore  via 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  