-- 
Cairn Energy Halts Greenland Drilling as Activists Board Rig

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-06-04T16:13:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/cairn-energy-stops-drilling-in-greenland-as-activists-board-rig.html
Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  was forced to halt
drilling off the coast of  Greenland  after Greenpeace activists
boarded a rig for the second time in a week.  Eighteen campaigners scaled the Leiv Eiriksson rig around 5
a.m. today, Greenpeace said in an e-mailed statement. They made
their way to the drill manager’s cabin and asked for a copy of
the vessel’s Oil Spill Response Plan, Greenpeace said. Fourteen
activists have been arrested and four had taken up position in
two of the rig’s cranes.  The incident has ended “peacefully” and the Greenland
authorities are dealing with the protesters, Edinburgh-based
Cairn Energy said in an e-mailed statement. Drilling remains
suspended, it said. Cairn Energy has an interest in 11
exploration areas in Greenland, according to its website.  Protesters have targeted Cairn Energy’s operations in
Greenland several times since the company began drilling last
year. Greenpeace activists boarded the Leiv Eiriksson rig in
April on its way to the Arctic and again on May 29 after it
arrived in the waters west of Greenland. Cairn started legal
proceedings against Greenpeace this week.  Cairn is one of several companies to be awarded exploration
licenses in the last decade, including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
Chevron Corp. and Encana Corp. Greenland’s waters may hold 50
billion barrels of crude oil and gas, the  U.S. Geological Survey 
estimates, enough to meet  Europe ’s energy demand for almost two
years.  Greenpeace said its activists met with the drill manager
and were refused a copy of the oil-spill response plan. Oil-
spill response documents are not publicly available in line with
Greenland’s regulations, Cairn said.  “Cairn takes its responsibilities such as oil spill
contingency and response plans very seriously,” the company
said in a separate statement, adding that Greenland has “some
of the most stringent operating regulations anywhere globally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London at 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  