-- 
Concacaf Suspends Acting President Austin for Undisclosed Rules Violations

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-06-04T15:49:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/concacaf-suspends-acting-president-austin-for-undisclosed-rules-violations.html
Lisle Austin of Barbados, the acting
president of Concacaf, has been provisionally suspended by the
soccer body for allegedly violating rules.  Concacaf, which runs soccer in North and Central America
and the Caribbean, didn’t give specific details of the
violations in a  statement  on its website. The organization said
it will ask FIFA to extend the ban worldwide until Austin has a
full hearing on July 13.  Austin took over as Concacaf’s interim president when Jack Warner of Trinidad was suspended six days ago by FIFA. Warner
and Mohamed Bin Hammam, head of the sport in  Asia , are being
investigated by FIFA over allegations they paid bribes to
officials in the Caribbean during Bin Hammam’s failed bid for
the FIFA presidency. Both men deny any wrongdoing.  Austin fired Chuck Blazer, Concacaf’s general secretary, on
May 31, after Blazer made allegations that triggered the bribery
investigation. Concacaf the next day said Blazer would remain in
his position after Austin fired him without authority.  Austin’s spokeswoman, Hema Ramkissoon, said the acting
president didn’t know why he was suspended, and questioned the
actions of other board members.  “Some members of the executive committee are clearly
engaging in illegal actions at the prodding of forces which do
not have the best interest of Concacaf at heart,” Ramkissoon
said in the e-mail. “Mr. Austin intends to address their
continued illegal action at all levels. And Members of the
executive committee are no placed on notice.”  Austin said that staff or other association members who
worked with Alfredo Hawitt, who was named as acting president in
his place, would be acting illegally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 