-- 
Euro Rises Most Since January as Officials Increase Greece Financial Aid

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-04T04:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/euro-rises-most-since-january-as-officials-increase-greece-aid.html
The euro gained the most against the
dollar in four months this week after  Greece  was given more
assistance to address its debt crisis, boosting confidence the
region’s nations will be able to meet their obligations.  Europe’s shared currency reached a four-week high yesterday
after Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said they agreed to pay the next
installment to Greece under last year’s 110 billion-euro ($161
billion) bailout. The U.S. currency dropped to a record against
the Swiss franc after the jobless rate unexpectedly rose to 9.1
percent. European Central Bank policy makers may consider
increasing interest rates when they meet next week.  “People are taking the package as a positive factor,”
said  David Mann , regional head of research for the Americas at
Standard Chartered Plc in New York. “Combined with the relative
performance of the data out of the U.S. versus  Europe , that has
been a positive for now for the euro.”  The euro rose 2.2 percent to $1.4635, from $1.4319 May 27,
and touched $1.4643, the highest level since May 5. It was the
currency’s biggest weekly gain since Jan. 14. It added 1.6
percent to 117.48 yen, from 115.67 last week. The dollar dropped
0.6 percent to 80.34 yen, from 80.80.  Peer Gains  The euro was the biggest weekly winner against nine other
currencies of developed nations measured by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. It rose 1.6 percent, followed by a
1.2 percent gain in the Swiss franc and a 1.1 percent advance in
the Norwegian krone.  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
agreed to pay the next installment to Greece under last year’s
bailout, paving the way for an upgraded aid package that
includes a “voluntary” role for investors. Greece’s government
said a review of the country’s economic progress concluded
“positively.”  “I expect the euro-group to agree to additional financing
to be provided to Greece under strict conditionality,”
Luxembourg’s Juncker said after meeting with Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  in Luxembourg yesterday.  ‘Bit of Optimism’  “There’s a little bit of optimism on the sovereign debt
stuff,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate
currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in New York. “You’ve
seen Treasury yields coming down very steadily since the peak in
early April. They have continued sliding through the second half
of May and that’s helped contribute to the euro’s rise.”  Yields on the Treasury 10-year notes fell to less than 3
percent on June 1 for the first time in 2011.  The dollar fell against 12 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts this week after manufacturing, unemployment and
 consumer confidence  were weaker than forecast, bolstering the
case for the  Federal Reserve  to keep interest rates at record
lows.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to
53.5 in May from 60.4 the prior month, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group said June 1. The jobless rate climbed to the highest level
this year from 9 percent a month earlier. Consumer confidence
dropped to a six-month low of 60.8.  Moody’s Investors Service said June 2 it may place the U.S.
government’s rating under review for possible downgrade based on
progress by Congress and the Obama administration on increasing
the statutory debt limit in coming weeks.  Annual Pace  The dollar has dropped 6.5 percent this year against its
nine developed-nation counterparts, the biggest decline in the
group, according to BCWI. The euro has gained 3.2 percent this
year and the yen has dropped 5.5 percent.  The Fed has kept its benchmark interest rate at a record
low of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. Futures
contracts show the likelihood of an increase in the fed funds
target by the central bank’s March 2012 meeting fell to 23
percent today, from 26 percent yesterday. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  meets June 22.  The ECB raised its rate by 25 basis points in April and may
increase rates again when it meets in July, a Bloomberg survey
showed. The central bank will leave its rate unchanged at 1.25
percent at its meeting June 9, a separate survey showed.  South Africa ’s rand gained the most against the dollar
among the major currencies this week. Gold, which the nation
exports, rose 0.3 percent.  The rand increased 3.1 percent to 6.7137 per dollar, from
6.9290 May 27.  Futures Data  Bets the dollar will drop against the euro, yen, pound,
Australian dollar Canadian dollar and Swiss franc rose to
126,029 as of May 31, according to Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data. Dollar shorts, or bets the dollar will fall,
reached 287,756 in March, the highest since the euro’s
inception, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Swiss franc reached a record 83.31 centimes against the
dollar yesterday and 1.20543 against the euro on June 2.  “It’s a pretty nasty witch’s brew for risky assets,” said
 Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at Westpac
Banking Corp. in  New York . The franc and the yen “will
strengthen in times of stress.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  