-- 
Gates Calls for Afghan Anti-Corruption Steps as U.S. Troop Drawdown Begins

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-04T20:51:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/gates-seeks-afghan-anti-corruption-steps-as-drawdown-begins.html
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  urged
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  and his government to step up
anti-corruption measures and to improve services as U.S.-led
troops begin a “modest” drawdown this year.  A combination of “serious losses” for the Taliban and
growth in the numbers and skill of the Afghan National Army and
police puts the U.S. in a position “to consider some modest
drawdowns beginning in July,” Gates said in a joint appearance
with Karzai after their last meeting before the U.S. defense
chief retires from office this month  “This shift in military momentum provides the Afghan
government an opportunity to strengthen the confidence of its
people though economic development, fair enforcement of the rule
of law, attacking corruption, and the provision of basic
services,” Gates told journalists in Kabul yesterday.  President  Barack Obama  has said he wants a “responsible”
drawdown based on security conditions.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization and other nations in
the coalition, which have almost 150,000 troops in the war zone,
plan to hand over the lead nationwide to Afghans in 2014.  “While the international commitment here is strong and
durable, that commitment is not infinite, in either time or
resources,” Gates said. “For the upcoming transition to be
successful, the Afghan government and security forces must be
willing to step up and take more and more responsibility for
governing and defending their own territory.”  Bin Laden’s Death  Gates said it’s too soon to determine whether the U.S.
killing of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden last month has had
any effect on the insurgency by the Taliban, which harbored his
group in  Afghanistan  before being ousted from power by American
forces after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  The U.S. hopes the killing of bin Laden may prompt Taliban
leader Mullah Omar to sever his group’s ties with al-Qaeda
because the affiliation was partly based on the two men’s
personal relationship, Gates said. That might allow for
reconciliation talks between the Taliban and the Afghan
government, Gates said.  Karzai reiterated his recent call for coalition forces to
stop raiding homes and risking civilian casualties. While Gates
said coalition leaders “mourn and profoundly regret” such
losses, he said the Taliban inflicts the vast majority of
civilian casualties.  The civilian death toll in Afghanistan rose 20 percent in
2010 from the year before, with insurgent attacks accounting for
more than 90 percent of the increase, according to an analysis
of coalition data published in the journal Science and released
in March. The analysis was similar to the findings of a separate
United Nations report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Kabul, Afghanistan, at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net 
NI AFGHAN
NI AME
NI ASIA
NI ASIAX
NI BUSINESS
NI CMD
NI CNG
NI DEF
NI EM
NI EUROPE
NI FEAS
NI FINNEWS
NI GEN
NI GOV
NI GULF
NI IRAN
NI IRAQ
NI MARKETS
NI MIDEAST
NI MSCINAMER
NI MSCIWORLD
NI NORTHAM
NI NRG
NI NUK
NI PAK
NI POL
NI CNG
NI SEASIA
NI STD
NI TERROR
NI US
NI USGOV
NI WAR 