-- 
Gates Warns of South China Sea Clashes Without Code of Conduct Agreement

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-06-04T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/gates-warns-of-south-china-sea-clashes-without-code-of-conduct-agreement.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
warned that more clashes will occur in the South China Sea if
nations vying for oil and gas in the waters fail to agree on
ways to avoid confrontations.  “I fear that without rules of the road and without agreed
approaches to dealing with these problems, that there will be
clashes,” Gates said yesterday at the annual  IISS  Asia Security
Summit: The Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore. “That serves
nobody’s interest.”  The defense ministers of  Vietnam , the  Philippines  and
 Malaysia , all of which have disputes with China in the sea, will
speak on maritime security issues today. Chinese Defense
Minister Liang Guanglie is scheduled to give a keynote address
on China’s international security cooperation.  Tensions have risen in the  South China Sea  in the past
month. The Philippines filed a diplomatic protest after Chinese
vessels were seen in an area claimed by both countries, and
Vietnam last week said Chinese ships cut survey cables of a boat
operated by Vietnam Oil & Gas Group, or PetroVietnam.  China’s claims to  most  of the South China Sea have sparked
protests from neighboring countries that rely on the U.S. Navy
as a stabilizing force in the strategic lanes. Exxon Mobil
Corp.,  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  and Forum Energy Plc are all
planning exploration activities in blocks with Chinese claims.  ‘Space for Diplomacy’  “Disputes in the South China Sea appear to be growing in
intensity and even bringing naval forces into contact with each
other,” said John Chipman, director-general of the
International Institute for Strategic Studies. The meeting in
 Singapore  “will be an important opportunity to reduce tensions
and offer space for diplomacy,” he said in opening remarks on
June 3.  China asserts “indisputable sovereignty” over most of the
South China Sea, including oil and gas fields more than three
times further from its coast than they are from Vietnam.  “It would be a mistake for us to see China as an
adversary,” Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak said in a
speech on June 3. “If we treat China in a very constructive,
positive way, I’m more than convinced that the Chinese will
respond positively to us.”  Najib said he’s “optimistic” the 10-member  Association of
Southeast Asian Nations  can sign a binding code of conduct in
the waters.  China  and Asean have struggled to reach an agreement
that builds on a less formal 2002 pact.  Such an accord “would clarify” many of the recent clashes
in the sea, Gates said.  Biggest Spenders  China and the U.S. are the world’s biggest spenders on
arms. The Pentagon is requesting $671 billion for fiscal 2012
starting Oct. 1, $37 billion less than this year’s request.
China plans to increase defense spending 12.7 percent this year
to 601.1 billion yuan ($92.8 billion), a figure U.S. analysts
say underestimates actual outlays.  Exploration in waters under China’s jurisdiction infringes
its “sovereignty and interests and is illegal,” the Foreign
Ministry in Beijing said May 12. China has bolstered its forces
over the past decade, procuring nuclear-powered submarines and
developing an  aircraft carrier , according to a  Defense
Department  report in August.  The U.S., which has defense treaties with the Philippines
and  Thailand  and guarantees Taiwan’s security, has patrolled
Asia-Pacific waters since World War II. Gates reiterated
concerns this week over China’s development of advanced military
technology, including anti-ship ballistic missiles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Singapore at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  