-- 
Glaxo’s Melanoma Cocktail Helps Almost All Patients in First Trial

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-06-04T22:17:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/glaxo-novel-drug-mixture-promising-for-melanoma-in-early-study.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s combination of
two experimental drugs for advanced melanoma helped almost all
patients in its first human study, leading it to launch the
therapy directly into large trials needed for U.S. approval.  The pills target genetic variations that drive growth of
melanoma, the deadliest skin cancer. Both drugs had been shown
to help combat the disease in those with a mutation known as
BRAF, found in about half of patients, though each carried side
effects and had limited benefit when given separately.  All but one of 109 study patients tolerated full-strength
doses of the combination and had fewer side effects, including
rash, warts and milder forms of skin cancer, said Jeffrey
Infante, director of  drug development  at the Sarah Canon
Research Institute in Nashville. GlaxoSmithKline plans to move
the combination directly into the final and third stage of
testing generally required for regulatory approval, said Paolo Paoletti, president of London-based Glaxo’s oncology unit.  “The majority of patients have clinical benefit from the
regimen, very quickly,” Infante said during a news conference
at the  American Society for Clinical Oncology  meeting in
 Chicago , where the data was presented. “We have had five
complete responders so far,” where the tumor, once easily
visible studding the skin, disappears entirely, he said.  “You don’t have to be an oncologist to know you are
helping people,” he said.  While the two drugs making up the new combination have
helped patients individually, the gain isn’t long-lasting,
Infante said. The goal of the mixing the two is to lengthen the
time the disease can be kept at bay. The latest data didn’t
cover a long enough time period to find that out, he said.  Cancer Cell Targets  One drug works by blocking BRAF, a mutation that spurs
cancer cell growth. The other works by blocking a protein called
MEK, which helps tumors resist an assault on BRAF.  The study included 109 patients, including 7 who didn’t
have melanoma. The analysis didn’t include about 30 patients who
were previously treated with a similar experimental drug that
targets the BRAF mutation or hadn’t been in the study long
enough to get a follow up scan. Of the remainder, 80 percent are
still taking both drugs.  Melanoma strikes 68,000 Americans each year, according to
the  American Cancer Society . While patients with early stage
disease respond well to treatment, the five-year survival rate
for those with cancer that has spread is 15 percent.  Glaxo’s phase 3 trial will start by year end, Paoletti
said. Details have not been finalized.  FDA Meeting  Paoletti said that Glaxo officials met with the U.S.  Food
and Drug Administration  and also with European regulators
“about a month ago” to discuss the possibility of moving two
experimental drugs directly into phase 3 together.  ”They are extremely interested” in the combination trial,
he said in an interview. ”A few years ago this was not on the
radar screen. The science is moving at the speed of light.”  The combination drug is just one of several promising
candidates to help defeat skin cancer, said Stephen Hodi,
director of the melanoma center at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute
in  Boston , in a telephone interview last month.  The Glaxo findings are the first in a wave of studies
coming out at the meeting about malignant melanoma, which kills
8,700 Americans each year. Roche and Daiichi Sankyo Co. of
 Tokyo , will provide additional data on their similar BRAF
inhibitor, dubbed vemurafenib, while  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) 
will outline the benefits of its immune therapy Yervoy.  Yervoy was the first drug to show a survival benefit for
patients with metastatic melanoma when it was approved in March.
The companies said Thursday they are doing a combination trial
of the two drugs to see if they can further improve results.  Billions in Sales  Success in melanoma also may lead to billions of dollars in
sales for drugmakers. New York-based Bristol-Myers’s Yervoy, the
first to extend advanced melanoma survival when it was approved
March 25, costs $120,000 for a standard course of four doses and
may reach $1.5 billion in sales by 2015, according to Bloomberg
survey of four analysts.  “This is clearly the year of melanoma,” said George Sledge, Jr., president of the  American Society of Clinical
Oncology  and oncology professor at  Indiana University ’s Cancer
Center in Indianapolis, in an interview. “Metastatic melanoma
is desperately awful in terms of prognosis, and we’ve had no
real survival advantage in 30 years. This I think is a real sea
change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net 
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  