-- 
Li Captures French Open Title, Becoming First Chinese to Win a Grand Slam

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-04T17:03:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/li-captures-french-open-title-becoming-first-chinese-to-win-a-grand-slam.html
Li Na beat defending champion
Francesca Schiavone to take the  French Open  women’s title,
becoming the first Chinese player to win a Grand Slam tennis
singles final.  Li, 29, defeated the Italian, 6-4, 7-6 (7-0) on Court
Philippe Chatrier at Roland Garros in Paris.  “She tried to come back,” Li said in a courtside
interview after the match. “I needed to stand up and make it.
Everyone must be so excited” in China.  Chinese women had won Olympic gold medals and Grand Slam
titles in doubles. In January, Li became the first Asian player
to reach a major championship match at the Australian Open,
where she lost to  Kim Clijsters  of  Belgium .  “I congratulate Li Na on this historic victory which is
credit to her incredible skill, determination and perseverance
in winning  China ’s first Grand Slam,”  Stacey Allaster , chairman
and chief executive officer of the WTA Tour, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Her win today will inspire an entire generation of
young girls to play tennis and propel the sport to new levels of
global popularity and growth.”  The sixth-seeded Li, who was introduced to tennis at age of
nine in Wuhan, China, after playing badminton for two years, had
defeated three-time major champion  Maria Sharapova  of Russia in
the semifinals to become the first Chinese player to reach a
singles final in Paris.  Former Champions  Watched by former Grand Slam champions  Martina Navratilova 
and Martina Hingis, Li broke for a 3-2 lead in the first set.
Serving at 5-4, she produced two forehand winners and took the
set when Schiavone hit a forehand long.  Li broke again early in the second for a 4-2 lead before
Schiavone fought back to go in front 5-4. With Li serving at 6-5
and 40-40, the umpire overruled a call of out on a Li backhand.
Li then won the game on the next point to force the tiebreaker,
in which she took won all seven points to capture the title.  “You couldn’t push her forward from the baseline,”
Schiavone, the fifth-seed, said. “She deserved to win.”  Li said that she had been nervous, “but I didn’t want to
show my opponent. I was a little bit cheeky.”  Media Focus  Li’s progress at the French Open was closely followed by
Chinese media and state-run  China Central Television . After her
match against Sharapova, which was watched by the Chinese
ambassador to  France , the Shanghai-based Oriental Daily said she
was the “Number One Sister” of Chinese sport. Her semifinal
win was watched by as many as 65 million viewers in China,
according to the French Open website.  Li is part of a generation of women’s tennis players from
China who were nicknamed the “Golden Flowers” by state media
after Li Ting and Sun Tian Tian won the women’s doubles gold
medal at the 2004 Athens Olympics.  In 2006, Zheng Jie and Yan Zi became the country’s first
Grand Slam champions, taking the women’s doubles at the
Australian Open and Wimbledon. They also won the bronze medal at
the 2008 Olympics in Beijing. China now has four women ranked in
the top 100.  Li went into a slump after reaching the Australian final
because she struggled with the off-court demands on her time,
she said in an interview at a tournament in  Rome  last month.  New Coach  After  Melbourne , she lost in the opening round of her next
four tournaments. She started working with  Denmark ’s Federation
Cup coach Michael Mortensen and made the semifinals of events in
Madrid and Rome on clay, a slow surface she had never played on
while learning the game in China.  The French Open was marked by early exits of the women’s
top seeds. The second-seeded Clijsters lost in the second round,
No. 1  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark was beaten in the third
round and No. 3 Vera Zvonareva of  Russia  lost in the fourth
round.  Serena and  Venus Williams , the American sisters who have
won 20 Grand Slam singles titles between them, were absent from
because of injuries, while four-time champion Justine Henin of
Belgium retired after the Australian Open with an elbow injury.  As many as 65 million people watched Li’s first Grand Slam
final appearance in Melbourne on television in China, the
women’s WTA tour said at the time and her run led to sponsorship
deals with watch brand Rolex, ice-cream maker Haagen-Dasz and
medical kinesiology tape developer Spider-Tech.  The tour last year estimated that 14 million people in
China regularly play tennis, up from 1 million when the sport
returned to the Olympics in 1988. Li hoped her performance in
Paris would inspire young children in China to pick up a racket
and start playing.  “When I was young, I never had a chance to watch tennis,”
Li said in a news conference after her semifinal. “But it is
getting better because now the young players, they can see me on
TV.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 