-- 
Li Na’s Victory in French Open Final May be Tennis Market Fillip for China

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-05T22:32:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/li-na-accomplishes-dream-with-china-s-first-tennis-major-at-french-open.html
Li Na  changed Chinese sports history
this weekend at the French Open, and she may have changed
international tennis forever.  Li became the first Chinese winner of a Grand Slam title by
overcoming defending champion Francesca Schiavone of  Italy , 6-4,
7-6 (7-0) two days ago. The 29-year-old, who retired earlier in
her career, was in her second straight major final, after losing
to  Kim Clijsters  of  Belgium  at the Australian Open.  “Li Na is a very good role model for young people in China
and they can learn from her persistent pursuit of her dreams
regardless whatever hardships she is facing,” said Kathy Lee, a
43-year-old interpreter in Beijing who’s a fan of  Switzerland ’s
 Roger Federer .  “I am so proud of being Chinese and witnessing
our country to get stronger and stronger on all fronts.”  While Chinese women had won Olympic gold medals and Grand
Slam titles in doubles, individual bests at the majors had been
missing until last weekend. Li’s victory is also an achievement
for women’s tennis, which is focusing on developing the game in
 Asia . The WTA Tour, which has an office in Beijing, last year
estimated that 14 million people in China regularly play tennis,
up from 1 million when the sport returned to the Olympics in
1988. That’s three times as many as in France and about half the
27 million estimated tennis players in the U.S.  Massive Day  “A massive day for Li Na,”  Stacey Allaster , chairman and
chief executive officer of the WTA Tour, said in an interview at
 Roland Garros . “This a very big moment for her and for her
country.”  Last year, Allaster said China “is our priority market.”
Tennis could reach about 100 million people if only 8 or 9
percent of the population took up the sport, she estimated.  Li’s French Open crown comes after a career with many ups
and downs, she said in an interview in Paris after her victory.
The No. 6 seed was introduced to tennis by her parents at age 9
in Wuhan, China, after playing badminton for two years.  “It was tough, I retired for two years, had injuries,” Li
said, a laptop by her side on which she had just been writing an
online blog for 2 million fans who follow her on the Chinese
website sina.com.  Li’s progress in Paris was followed by Chinese media and
state-run China Central Television. After beating former
Wimbledon champion  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  in the semifinals,
the Shanghai-based Oriental Daily said she was the “No. 1
Sister” of Chinese sports. Her semifinal win was watched by as
many as 65 million viewers in China, according to the  French
Open  website.  New Sponsors  Li’s run to the final in January in  Melbourne  led to
sponsorship deals with watch brand Rolex, ice-cream maker
Haagen-Dazs and medical tape developer SpiderTech.  “She has become iconic now in China,” Max Eisenbud, Li’s
agent at IMG, said in an interview. “She has broken down a lot
of barriers. She was the first Chinese player in the top 50,
then the top 40, 30, 20, first one in the top 10, first one in
the finals of a Grand Slam.”  Eisenbud, who also represents Sharapova, the world’s best-
paid female athlete, last month said he was “in conversations
with about five or six other companies” seeking to endorse Li.  “With a Grand Slam win, she could rival the biggest female
properties in tennis in earning power, such as Sharapova and the
Williams sisters,”  Simon Chadwick , a sports business professor
at the Coventry University Business School in  England , said in
interview before the French Open. Sharapova’s annual earnings
were estimated at $24.5 million by Forbes in August.  Vacancy to Fill  “There is a vacancy in the female tennis landscape for a
very distinctive and successful tennis player brand,” Chadwick
said. “Especially given that she is from  China , and given the
rapid growth of tennis and the various markets in China, she
would seem like the obvious candidate.”  Wang Liangzuo, a former coach of the Chinese women’s tennis
team, said in an interview that he hoped Li’s success will
further boost the sport in his country. There are four women
from China in the top 100.  “A Grand Slam championship has been Chinese players’ dream
for decades,” he said “Li Na’s championship mirrors the
progress the country has made on various aspects.  “Victory in a game like this can help stimulate Chinese
people’s patriotism and make people proud of being a member of
our mother country even when their daily lives have nothing to
do with tennis,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  