-- 
Jobless Rate Unexpectedly Rises in Sign of Extended U.S. Economy Slowdow

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-04T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/jobless-rate-unexpectedly-rises-in-sign-of-extended-u-s-economy-slowdow.html
The  unemployment rate  in the U.S.
unexpectedly climbed to 9.1 percent in May and payrolls grew at
the slowest pace in eight months, showing employers are losing
confidence as the economy slows.  The jobless rate increased to the highest level this year
from 9 percent a month earlier, Labor Department figures showed
yesterday in Washington. Employers added a less-than-projected
54,000 jobs last month, after a revised 232,000 gain in April
that was smaller than initially estimated. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey called for payrolls to rise 165,000.  The absence of faster job growth may weigh on consumer
spending, which makes up 70 percent of the economy, even as
Americans find cheaper prices at the gas pump. The data make it
more likely the  Federal Reserve  will hold its benchmark interest
rate near zero into 2012, while also posing a challenge to
President  Barack Obama , whose re-election prospects hinge on
bringing down unemployment.  “The weakness was broadbased,” said Sung Won Sohn, an
economics professor at California State University-Channel
Islands and former chief economist at  Wells Fargo & Co . “Robust
employment gains are not in the cards in coming months. The
economy has simply hit a temporary soft patch.”  Stocks yesterday trimmed losses after another report showed
service industries expanded more than forecast in May. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1 percent to close at
1,300.16 yesterday in  New York . The yield on the benchmark 10-
year Treasury note fell to 2.99 percent on June 3 from 3.03
percent the prior day.  Services Accelerate  The Institute for Supply Management yesterday said its
index of non-manufacturing businesses increased to 54.6 in May
from 52.8 a month earlier. The median estimate of 74 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg projected the measure would rise to 54. A
reading above 50 signals expansion.  The Labor Department’s figures showed private hiring, which
excludes government agencies, rose 83,000 last month. Private
payrolls increased 251,000 in April, initially reported as a
gain of 268,000.  Factories cut payrolls in May for the first time in seven
months, partly reflecting a drop at motor vehicles and parts
producers that may have been related to a components shortage
after the earthquake in  Japan . Employment at retailers, leisure
and hospitality companies and state and local governments also
decreased.  “Some of the engines of hiring just went away,” said
 Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas
in New York, who projected a 75,000 gain in May employment.
“Combined with the slowdown in  consumer spending , it raises
concern that the slowing in hiring could be with us for a
while.”  Cutting Forecasts  Economists at Barclays Capital Inc. yesterday cut their
forecast for second-quarter economic growth to a 2 percent
annual rate from a prior estimate of 3.5 percent. They also
lowered the projection for the third quarter to 3 percent from
3.5 percent.  The payrolls report makes it more likely the Fed will
signal it will keep its balance sheet at a record to spur the
economy after ending $600 billion in bond purchases this month,
a policy known as QE2 for the second round of quantitative
easing. Central bankers next meet June 21-22.  “This really suggests everything will be on hold longer
for the Fed,” said  John Silvia , Wells Fargo Securities LLC’s
chief economist in Charlotte,  North Carolina . “They are on
caution alert at this point. We are not creating jobs.”  Reducing Headcount  Companies still reducing their workforce include H.J. Heinz
Co., the world’s biggest ketchup maker, which in May announced
plans to slash as many as 1,000 jobs worldwide and close five
factories.  Dean Foods Co. (DF) , the largest U.S. milk processor, said
it cut 600 positions last quarter and 140 early this quarter.  Austan Goolsbee, Obama’s chief economist, said the jobs
report represents a “little bump” in the road to recovery and
that the broader trends are “substantially more positive” than
when Obama took office in January 2009.  “We should never read too much into any one month’s
report,” Goolsbee, chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisers, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “No
doubt we face some headwinds.”  Employment and economic growth may bounce back as parts-
supply shortages caused by the Japan earthquake and tsunami
ease, said  David Resler , chief economist at Nomura Securities
International Inc. in New York. The slowdown “is going to be
temporary,” he said.  Fuel Prices  Consumers are also getting some relief from a drop in
gasoline prices.  Consumer confidence  rose for a second week in
the period ended May 29, according to the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index.  “ Job creation  remains the most important factor during the
economic recovery, but we do anticipate that it’s continuing to
improve,”  Don Johnson , vice president of U.S. sales at  General
Motors Co. (GM) , said on a June 1 teleconference. “The environment
for future hiring and investment does continue to be positive.”  Economic growth slipped to a 1.8 percent annual pace in the
first three months of the year from 3.1 percent in the prior
quarter, revised figures from the Commerce Department showed
last week.  Manufacturing grew in May at the slowest pace in more than
a year, according to Institute for Supply Management data this
week, reinforcing concern the industry that led the U.S.
recovery is cooling.  Consumer spending grew less than forecast in April as
households felt the pinch of grocery and energy costs, a
Commerce Department report showed.  “The current accommodative stance of U.S. monetary policy
continues to be appropriate because the unemployment rate
remains elevated and inflation is expected to remain subdued
over the medium run,” Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said in a
Tokyo speech this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  