-- 
JPMorgan Asks Judge to Dismiss $6.4 Billion Suit by Madoff Trustee Picard

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-06-04T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/jpmorgan-asks-judge-to-dismiss-6-4-billion-madoff-trustee-suit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. sought to
dismiss a $6.4 billion lawsuit by the trustee liquidating
 Bernard Madoff ’s firm, saying he doesn’t have the right to sue
the bank on behalf of the con man’s investors.  Trustee Irving Picard sued JPMorgan in U.S.  Bankruptcy
court  in  Manhattan  in December, alleging it ignored signs of
fraud as billions of dollars flowed from Madoff’s account at the
bank to investors. JPMorgan was Madoff’s primary banker. The
lawsuit seeks $1 billion in fees and transfers, and $5.4 billion
in damages, alleging that JPMorgan defrauded federal regulators
and violated banking law.  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank, asked in a filing
yesterday that a U.S. District Court judge to dismiss the suit.
The trustee’s “complaint never alleges facts showing that
anyone at JPMorgan knew that Madoff was a crook,” the bank said
in the filing.  Picard was hired to liquidate Madoff’s firm and doesn’t
have the legal right to sue on behalf of investors in the
$17 billion  Ponzi scheme , New York-based JPMorgan said.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call to her office after regular business hours.  The bank’s case is one of at least three that has been
moved from bankruptcy court to district court, in a challenge to
Picard’s authority. U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in  New
York  in May took JPMorgan’s case from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Burton Lifland , saying she would determine whether Picard had
standing to sue the bank and decide other questions of federal
non-bankruptcy law.  HSBC, UniCredit  District Court Judge Jed Rakoff said he would review some
issues in Picard’s $9 billion suit against  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
feeder funds, as well as laws used by the trustee to sue Italian
bank  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , named in a $59 billion suit against Bank
Medici AG, its founder Sonja Kohn and other defendants.  Picard has filed more than 1,000 suits seeking $90 billion
for Madoff investors. Lifland has approved fees of almost
$180 million for the trustee and his firm, Baker & Hostetler
LLP, since the Ponzi scheme operator’s 2008 arrest, according to
court filings.  Taking the HSBC case temporarily, Rakoff agreed with the
U.K. bank that Picard’s lawsuit raised issues beyond the
jurisdiction of bankruptcy court. He said he would decide
whether Picard can bring common-law claims such as unjust
enrichment and can sue on behalf of customers, since his job is
to liquidate the Madoff firm.  Picard, who said in court this week that he was getting a
“percentage” of his firm’s fees from the Madoff case, fought
to keep his cases in bankruptcy court. JPMorgan “no doubt hopes
to distance itself both from the thousands of victims of that
scheme and from other alleged wrongdoers” by going to district
court, Picard said in a March filing.  The appeal is Picard v.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , 1:11-cv-
00913, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  