-- 
NATO Says Attack Helicopters Fly First Missions Against Qaddafi’s Forces

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   P a u l   T i g h e
-- 
2011-06-04T15:31:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/nato-says-attack-helicopters-fly-first-missions-against-qaddafi-s-forces.html
British and French attack helicopters
struck military targets in Libya for the first time last night
as the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  stepped up the fight
against regime leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces.  U.K. Apache helicopters from the carrier HMS Ocean and
French helicopters from the assault ship Tonnerre destroyed a
radar installation and a military checkpoint near the strategic
oil town of Brega on the central coast, according to a statement
from Major General Nick Pope, a U.K. military spokesman.  “The use of the attack helicopters is a logical extension
of what we have already been doing,” U.K. Defense Secretary
 Liam Fox  told reporters in Singapore today. “We will continue
with the methods we have to degrade his command and control, to
degrade his supplies.”  The conflict between Qaddafi’s troops and rebels trying to
end his four-decade rule has left most of eastern  Libya  in
opposition hands and curbed oil exports. NATO said May 20 its
air campaign has “effectively” pushed Qaddafi into hiding.  British jet fighters operating in areas near where the
helicopters were used destroyed a military installation and
attacked two ammunition bunkers, Pope said. NATO has a better
understanding of where Qaddafi’s forces are stationed, making it
“appropriate” to use helicopters, he said.  ‘Complement Well’  “As yesterday’s operations demonstrate, the capabilities
of the Apache complement well the precision strike and
reconnaissance missions flown by NATO fast jets,” Pope said.  NATO will cease its activities if Qaddafi stops “waging
war on his own people,” Fox said in Singapore, where he
attended a security forum with defense officials from 27
countries, including U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates .  British Foreign Secretary  William Hague  and Secretary of
State for International Development Andrew Mitchell today were
visiting the rebel-held city of Benghazi, where they were to
meet with leaders of the rebels’ National Transitional Council,
the Foreign Office in  London  said in an e-mailed statement.  “We are here together as part of a coordinated and
strategic approach to Libya -- ensuring that our military,
diplomatic and development actions are aligned,” Hague was cited
as saying in the statement. “The U.K. is committed to this task.
Colonel Qaddafi is isolated internationally and domestically. He
has lost all legitimacy, continues to abuse human rights without
mercy or compunction. He must go.”  Black Katiba  Before the helicopter assault, rebels of the Black Katiba,
or Black Battalion, near the opposition-held city of Misrata,
said they had been waiting for the Apaches.  “NATO can take care of the Grads, we can do all the
rest,” said Khalid Alogab, a tall, bearded commander in a black
T-shirt, referring to the Russian-made rockets that Qaddafi’s
forces have fired into the city.  A rebel military spokesman in Misrata, Commander Ibrahim
Betalmal, said there may be as many as 2,000 Qaddafi loyalists
outside the city, some of them elite forces.  Rebel fighters are now coordinating with  NATO  and have been
told not to advance beyond certain points, Betalmal said. “No
doubt NATO will help a great deal in clearing the way forward
for us,” he added.  The Black Katiba was formed by Misrata men from all walks of
life in the first days of the siege. The only qualification for
entry was that recruits already knew at least one member of the
unit.  The battalion’s name comes from the matte black paint
applied to its fleet of  pickup trucks , which carry machine guns
or rocket launchers. They were painted to set them apart from
the white pickup trucks Qaddafi’s forces use, helping reduce the
risk of so-called friendly fire incidents -- particularly by
NATO aircraft, which have had trouble distinguishing friend from
foe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in  Singapore  at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net . 