-- 
Obama Says Auto Bailout Offers Model for Future Economic Growth

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-06-04T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/obama-says-auto-bailout-offers-model-for-future-economic-growth.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
successful government bailout of the  auto industry  serves as a
model for his economic policies, which aim to spur  job creation 
and ensure U.S. competitiveness.  In his weekly radio and Internet  address , Obama said that
for the first time since 2004, Chrysler Group LLC,  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are turning a profit and are
adding shifts and creating jobs at the strongest rate since the
1990s. While the bailout was unpopular at the time, he said, the
American people stood by GM and Chrysler while they took
difficult steps to restructure themselves.  “We decided to do more than rescue this industry from a
crisis,” Obama said in the address, which he taped during a
visit yesterday to a Chrysler plant in Toledo,  Ohio . “We
decided to help it retool for a new age, and that’s what we’re
doing all across the country -- we’re making sure America can
out-build, out-innovate, and out-compete the rest of the
world.”  Obama visited the facility the same day the Labor
Department reported that payrolls increased by a less-than-
projected 54,000 in April, the smallest gain in eight months.
The  unemployment rate  rose to 9.1 percent, the highest level
this year.  The jobs report was the latest economic indicator
suggesting the nation’s recovery from the worst recession since
the 1930s has hit a soft patch with the presidential election 18
months away.  Obama said there will be “bumps on the road to recovery.”  ‘Tough Headwinds’  “Even though our economy has created more than two million
private-sector jobs over the past 15 months and continues to
grow, we’re facing some tough headwinds,” he said. “Lately,
it’s high gas prices, the earthquake in  Japan , and unease about
the European fiscal situation.”  Obama also championed the June 2 announcement that  Fiat SpA (F) 
and the U.S. Treasury Department have reached an agreement for
the Italian auto company to buy the government’s remaining 6
percent stake in Chrysler for $500 million. Chrysler already has
repaid $7.6 billion in U.S. and Canadian government loans.  “Chrysler has repaid every dime and more of what it owes
American taxpayers for their support during my presidency -- and
it repaid that money six years ahead of schedule,” Obama said.
“And this week, we reached a deal to sell our remaining stake.
That means soon, Chrysler will be 100% in private hands.”  Republican Address  In the Republican  address , Senator Lamar Alexander of
Tennessee faulted the Obama administration for promoting
policies that deter U.S. companies from creating jobs.  Alexander cited a recent National Labor Relations Board
complaint that  Boeing Co. (BA)  retaliated against its union employees
in the Seattle area by building a non-union factory in South
Carolina for its 787 Dreamliner aircraft.  Alexander said the precedent would make it more difficult
for Boeing, the world’s biggest aerospace company, and other
businesses to compete globally and may lead manufacturers to
make and sell their products overseas.  “Boeing is America’s largest exporter, but we want them to
export airplanes, not jobs,” he said.  “Our goal should be to
make it easier and cheaper to create private-sector jobs in this
country.”  Alexander has been one of several Republican lawmakers
challenging the agency’s Boeing case. He and fellow Senator
 Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina have said they will introduce
legislation that would bar the NLRB from acting against Chicago-
based Boeing.  South Carolina  is a “right-to-work” state, which means
employees are prohibited from being required to join a union or
pay dues. Manufacturing production workers in right-to-work
states are paid an average hourly wage of $17.22, 8.9 percent
less than the national average of $18.90, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  