-- 
Hong Kong March, Candle-Lit Vigil Marks Tiananmen Crackdown Anniversary

-- B y   B i l l y   C h a n
-- 
2011-06-04T22:48:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/hong-kong-residents-to-hold-vigil-marking-tiananmen-crackdown-anniversary.html
As many as 150,000 people in  Hong
Kong  took part in an annual candle-lit vigil to mark China’s
crackdown 22 years ago on pro-democracy demonstrators in
Beijing’s Tiananmen Square, organizers said.  The crowd filled the Victoria Park rally site yesterday,
said Lee Cheuk-yan, chairman of the Hong Kong Alliance in
Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements of China, one of the
organizers. A spokesman for Hong Kong’s police said they
estimated a turnout of 77,000 people. Since 1990, the park has
hosted the only memorial held on Chinese soil to the June 4,
1989, crackdown.  “I feel very moved by the crowd today, especially young
faces coming in, and mainland compatriots,” Lee, a legislator
in the city of 7 million, told reporters. “We have already been
successful in passing the torch to the younger generation.”  The vigil is taking place as inflation and surging home
prices are stoking discontent in  China  and Hong Kong. The U.S.
government in April said the “deterioration” of China’s human
rights record in recent months is affecting relationships
between the two countries.  China has arrested and detained dozens of people in recent
months, and the U.S. has raised concerns about the detention of
artist Ai Weiwei, Michael Posner, the U.S. assistant secretary
of state for democracy, human rights and labor, said April 28.  Ai is being investigated for alleged “economic crimes,”
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said April 7.  Security Tightened  In Beijing, authorities tightened security around Tiananmen
Square. Just before 2 p.m. local time yesterday, more than 20
police vehicles were deployed on the eastern side of the city-
centre square as Chinese and Western tourists strolled the
expanse.  The U.S. marked the anniversary by calling on China to
release people still serving sentences for taking part in
peaceful protests.  “We ask the Chinese government to provide the fullest
possible public accounting of those killed, detained or missing,
and to cease the ongoing harassment of those who participated in
the demonstrations” in Tiananmen Square, the State Department
said in an e-mailed statement on June 3.  The U.S. should discard its “prejudice” on the political
turbulence to avoid hurting relations between the two nations,
Xinhua News Agency cited China’s Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong
Lei as saying yesterday.  Taiwan Statement  Taiwan’s President Ma Ying-jeou, who has overseen closer
ties with China, issued a statement calling on the Chinese
government to release Ai and Nobel laureate  Liu Xiaobo ,
according to his office.  In the crackdown 22 years ago, Chinese troops fired on
demonstrators who had been massing in the square in Beijing for
weeks. The U.S. Embassy in Beijing estimated a death toll
exceeding 1,000, and in Hong Kong, which was due to return to
China in 1997, about one million people marched in protest.  “If the Chinese government refuses to acknowledge that the
student demonstrators were doing the right thing, it’s hard for
us to have any hope for political improvement in the future,”
said Lee of the Hong Kong Alliance.  Attendants lit candles, sang patriotic songs and listened
to activists who took the stage calling on China to atone for
the crackdown.  “As a parent, when I see my beloved child misbehave I have
to point out his mistake; the saddest thing in China now is that
we can’t even point out her mistake,” said Hong Kong resident
Daniel Chu, 38, who had taken his nine-month old son and four-
year old daughter with him to the vigil. “As a patriot, I’m
glad to see China has made huge progress in economic development,
but I think we need to be brave to say this is not enough.”  The vigil was also shown a video tribute to Szeto Wah, a
long-time campaigner for democracy in China and one of the
vigil’s early organizers, who died aged 79 in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Billy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 bchan101@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  