-- 
Portugal Opposition Parties May Win Majority in Election Key to EU Bailout

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-06-05T13:24:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/passos-coelho-extends-poll-lead-heading-into-portugal-election.html
Portuguese opposition leader  Pedro Passos Coelho  led Socialist Prime Minister Jose Socrates in
polls heading into today’s election with seat projections
showing he may be able to forge a majority with another party.  The new leaders will have to enact budget cuts required in
a 78 billion-euro ($113 billion) international bailout even as
unemployment climbs and the economy shrinks. Polls open at 8
a.m. and close at 7 p.m. in mainland Portugal. Exit polls will
be released at 8 p.m. Lisbon time when voting ends in the Azores
islands.  Socrates’ minority government fell in March after lawmakers
rejected deficit-cutting proposals as he struggled to avoid a
bailout. With debt and borrowing costs surging, Portugal
followed Greece and Ireland in seeking a rescue, bringing to 256
billion euros the aid provided to stamp out the sovereign debt
crisis. Another minority administration may threaten Portugal’s
ability to cut spending and receive rescue funds.  “Portugal needs an absolute majority in these elections,”
Passos Coelho said in Oporto, northern Portugal.  The  Social Democrats  led by Passos Coelho, 46, and the
 People’s Party , the biggest and second-biggest opposition
parties, have said they support the rescue, while blaming
Socrates, 53, for having to seek it.  Parliamentary Majority  The newspaper Jornal de Negocios estimated that if results
reflect opinion polls, the Social Democrats and People’s Party
combined would be enough to form a majority in the 230-seat
parliament.  Voter turnout reached 20.01 percent as of noon in Lisbon
today, compared with 21.29 percent at the same time when the
country held the previous parliamentary elections on Sept. 27,
2009, according to the government’s election  website .  “In the situation that the country is in, voting is not
only a right, it’s a duty and each person should think that the
choice of the next government is a matter that is too important
to be left to the others,” Portuguese President Anibal Cavaco Silva said today after he voted in Lisbon, according to news
radio TSF.  ‘Narrow But Possible’  “The path is narrow but it’s possible,” said Joaquim Goes, a board member at  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) , Portugal’s
biggest publicly traded bank by market value. “Our duty is to
carry out the agreement.”  A poll published by Jornal de Negocios on June 3 indicated
36.3 percent backing for the Social Democrats, 5 percentage
points more than in a survey published on May 19, and 30.1
percent support for the Socialists. The survey showed 12.4
percent support for the conservative People’s Party.  A survey also published on June 3 by another newspaper,
Publico, indicated 36.5 percent backing for the Social Democrats
and 31.1 percent for the Socialists. The survey showed 11.6
percent support for the People’s Party.  “Our country needs a government that is responsible,
realistic and based on social consensus,” Socrates said on June
2. “Only the Socialist Party can provide that government, there
is no other party.”  Bond Yields Rise  Borrowing costs have increased since the bailout was
requested. The difference in yield that investors demand to hold
 Portugal ’s 10-year bonds instead of German bunds reached a euro-
era record of 687 basis points on June 3. The 10-year bond yield
also reached a record of 9.856 percent on June 3, and the five-
year bond yield was at 11.421 percent. Portugal faces a 4.9
billion-euro bond redemption June 15, its only bond maturity
until June 2012.  The three-year aid plan for Portugal set goals for a budget
deficit of 5.9 percent of gross domestic product this year, 4.5
percent in 2012 and 3 percent in 2013. The country had the
fourth-biggest deficit in the euro region last year at 9.1
percent of GDP.  Portugal’s public debt swelled to 93 percent of GDP in 2010
from 68 percent in 2007. The European Commission forecasts
Portugal’s debt will increase to 101.7 percent this year and
107.4 percent in 2012.  A privatization program representing about 3.5 percent of
GDP aims to sell stakes in companies including EDP-Energias de
Portugal SA, the biggest electricity provider, and REN-Redes
Energeticas Nacionais SA, the operator of the national  power
grid , by the end of this year.  Aid Program  The aid program envisions a recovery in 2013, with
unemployment peaking at 13 percent in that year, according to
Portuguese Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos.
Portugal’s unemployment rate rose to 12.4 percent in the first
quarter.  The government said on May 5 the economy will shrink 2
percent this year, twice as much as it previously forecast. GDP
will also decline 2 percent in 2012, the minister said. The
country’s economic growth has averaged less than 1 percent a
year in the past decade, one of  Europe ’s weakest rates.  The aid package calls for spending reductions for 2012 and
2013 amounting to 3.5 percent of GDP, while revenue increases
will represent 1.4 percent of output. The government will freeze
public workers’ salaries through 2013 and cut pensions of more
than 1,500 euros a month, while  tax deductions  will be limited.  “The program must be implemented urgently,” Finance
Minister Teixeira dos Santos said on May 23. “The country at
this moment has three big challenges. First: implement the
program; second: implement the program; and third: implement the
program. Whoever wins the elections, whoever forms government,
won’t have time to sit down.”  The next legislature is likely to open at the end of June,
according to the Portuguese  parliament’s website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at   jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling in Lisbon at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  