-- 
Pfizer’s Aromasin Blocks Breast Cancer in Healthy, At-Risk Women in Study

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-06-04T15:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/pfizer-drug-prevents-breast-cancer-in-healthy-at-risk-women.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Aromasin, used to treat
 breast cancer  and stop it from returning, also prevents tumors
from developing in healthy women at risk for the disease, with
fewer side effects than existing options, a study found.  Women at least 60 years old or with a previous diagnosis of
precancerous lesions who took Aromasin for three years were 65
percent less likely to have invasive breast cancer than those
given a placebo, research showed. A report on the data, funded
by New York-based Pfizer, was presented today at the  American
Society of Clinical Oncology  meeting in  Chicago .  Breast cancer strikes 1.3 million women worldwide a year,
researchers said. While generic tamoxifen and Evista, made by
Indianapolis-based Eli Lilly & Co., are approved for prevention,
rare and sometimes deadly side effects such as stroke and blood
clots limit their use, said Paul Goss, head of breast cancer
research at  Massachusetts General Hospital  in  Boston . There were
no serious side effects in the study of 4,560 women, he said.  “This drug is a major step forward in terms of side
effects and removes one of the major obstacles to prevention,”
Goss said in a telephone interview. “The pool of women who are
eligible for this may be even larger than the group we studied
because the toxicity profile is so favorable.”  Goss said that while follow-up for the study was short, the
researchers were “optimistic that with further data it will be
maintained.”  Aromasin generated $483 million in sales last year for
Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker. The company lost U.S.
patent protection for the treatment in April, and will lose
marketing exclusivity in Europe and  Japan  in July, said Chris Loder, a company spokesman, in a telephone interview.  ‘Mixed Blessing’  The result is that Pfizer isn’t expected to file for U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  approval of the drug for breast
cancer prevention, Goss said.  “It’s a mixed blessing not having regulatory approval
pending,” Goss said. “It would imply a  drug company  would be
pushing it, and the cost would be beyond the reach of many
women. The price has already come down dramatically.”  Doctors can prescribe approved drugs for any indication.  Aromasin, along with  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Arimidex and
 Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Femara, work by blocking the production of the
hormone estrogen that can fuel cancer growth. This was the first
study to examine the use of the drugs, called aromatase
inhibitors, for preventing cancer.  Tamoxifen prevents tumor cells from using estrogen. Two-
thirds of all breast cancers rely on estrogen to grow, according
to the  National Institutes of Health .  Invasive Breast Cancer  Invasive breast cancer was diagnosed in 11 women taking
Aromasin, compared with 31 of those given placebo. There were no
differences in fracture rates, cardiovascular complications or
other cancers, according to the study that was simultaneously
published by the  New England Journal of Medicine .  The findings should lead to more breast cancer prevention
efforts, wrote Nancy Davidson and Thomas Kensler, from the
University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, in an editorial that
accompanied the study in the New England Journal of Medicine.  “Breast cancer is the second most common cause of death
from cancer and one of the most feared diagnoses for women in
the  United States ,” they wrote. “We have the knowledge and
tools to reduce its incidence today. We have run out of excuses.
What are we waiting for?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  