-- 
Pound Weakens on Lower Rates Bets as Data Points to Slowdown

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-06-04T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/pound-weakens-on-lower-rates-bets-as-data-points-to-slowdown.html
The pound fell against all 16 of its
major peers monitored by Bloomberg last week amid speculation
that data pointing to slowing growth will oblige central-bank
policy makers to keep  interest rates  on hold.  The U.K. currency weakened to trade at more than 89 pence
per euro for the first time since May 5 after manufacturing and
services indexes fell more than economists estimated and
mortgage approvals dropped to the fewest in four months.
Government bond yields reached the lowest this year.  “There’s been a bit of a deterioration, or slowdown, in
the data,” said  Jeremy Stretch , London-based head of currency
strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. “That’s clearly
put markets on watch for the Bank of England staying exactly
where we are and it has been keeping sterling pretty much on the
defensive.”  The pound depreciated to 89.01 pence per euro as of 4:20
p.m. yesterday, from 86.73 pence on May 27. It slid to $1.6375,
from $1.6510.  The pound touched its weakest level on record in a measure
of 10 developed-market currencies, the Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. It’s dropped 1.1 percent this year as
central bank officials debate how to manage signs of slowing
growth and above-target inflation.  Bank of England  Markets
Director  Paul Fisher  said in a Daily Mail report this week he
would consider an increase in asset purchases if the economy
“did take a sudden downturn.”  Rates at a Low  While policy makers have kept the U.K.’s benchmark interest
rate at a record-low 0.5 percent this year, the  European Central
Bank  raised borrowing costs for the euro area in April. Both
central banks will announce interest-rate decisions on June 9.  “From a rate-spread viewpoint, you can understand why
sterling is weaker,” Stretch said.  U.K. government bond yields slipped, with the rate on the
10-year gilt falling to 3.28 percent from 3.29 percent on May
27. The two-year note yield touched a low of 0.85 percent on
June 2, the least since November.  Gilts have returned 2.7 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, outperforming German bunds, which
earned 0.1 percent.  U.S. Treasuries  have handed investors 2.8
percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  