-- 
Treasury Two-Year Notes Increase for Eighth Week on U.S. Hiring Slowdown

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-06-04T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/treasury-two-year-notes-rise-for-eighth-week-on-hiring-slowdown.html
Treasury two-year securities rose for
an eighth week in their longest winning streak since February
2008 as reports showed U.S. job growth in May was less than a
third of what economists forecast and manufacturing slowed.  A rally in 10-year debt pushed yields below 3 percent for
the first time in 2011 before next week’s auctions of notes and
bonds totaling $66 billion. Bonds gained as traders increased
speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will hold its target rate
for overnight lending at virtually zero into next year.  “The economic data was very weak no matter how you look at
it,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading in
New York at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a brokerage for
institutional investors. “The  bond market  has been right that
the economy is certainly having big trouble correcting itself.”  The two-year note yield decreased this week five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 0.43 percent in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 0.5 percent
security maturing in May 2013 climbed 3/32, or 94 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 1/8.  The yield touched 0.41 percent yesterday, the lowest level
since Nov. 9, and was only 18 basis points higher than the fed
funds target, the smallest spread since December. The 10-year
note yield dropped nine basis points to 2.99 percent after
falling on June 1 to 2.94 percent, the lowest level since Dec.
7.  Nonfarm payrolls grew in May by 54,000 after an increase of
232,000 in the previous month, the Labor Department reported
yesterday. The median forecast of 89 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for an addition of 165,000. The  unemployment
rate  increased to 9.1 percent from 9 percent.  ‘Half Empty’  “The market’s glass was half full coming into the year,
but now it’s clearly half empty as investors have been taken on
a roller coaster ride with the economic data,” said  Sean Simko ,
who oversees $8 billion at SEI Investments Co. in Oaks,
 Pennsylvania . “You don’t want to fight the tape. There are a
lot of pieces of the recovery puzzle that is keeping the
Treasury market well bid.”  Treasuries rallied three days ago, pushing the 10-year note
yield below 3 percent, as ADP Employer Services reported that
companies added fewer jobs in May than economists forecast and
the  Institute for Supply Management  said manufacturing expanded
at the slowest pace in more than a year.  As U.S. reports showed the  U.S. economy  is losing momentum,
traders reduced bets that the Fed will increase its target rate
for overnight lending early next year.  Fed Rate Outlook  Futures contracts showed the likelihood of a boost in the
fed funds target by the central bank’s March 2012 meeting fell
to 23 percent, compared with 26 percent odds a week ago. The
central bank has held its benchmark at zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  The central bank bought $16.23 billion of securities this
week to support the economy under its $600 billion second round
of quantitative easing. The program, also known as QE2, expires
this month.  “People will start talking about QE3,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at Bank of Nova Scotia in  New
York . “The economy looks like it’s turning south.”  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said QE3 is
unlikely even with the economy adding fewer jobs. Policy makers
are like to “extend the extended period” language, Gross said
in a radio interview yesterday on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene , referring to the amount of time policy makers
plan to keep rates low.  Greece  Aid  Bonds pared their weekly gains as European Union and
International Monetary Fund officials agreed to pay the next
installment to Greece under last year’s 110 billion-euro ($161
billion) bailout, paving the way for an upgraded aid package
that includes a “voluntary” role for investors.  Greece’s Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will set up an
agency to manage an accelerated asset-sale effort and make
“significant” cuts in public-sector employment, according to a
statement released yesterday in  Athens .  Moody’s Investors Service said on June 2 that it expects to
place the U.S. government’s Aaa rating under review for possible
downgrade if there is no progress on increasing the statutory
debt limit in coming weeks.  The Treasury Department reiterated this week that U.S.
authority to borrow under the $14.29 trillion debt limit will
expire Aug. 2. A bill that would raise the debt limit by $2.4
trillion failed to win House passage in a vote that Democrats
said was rigged to ensure its defeat.  The U.S. will auction $32 billion of three-year notes, $21
billion of 10-year debt and $13 billion of 30-year bonds in
offerings beginning June 7.  “Even at these low levels, supply should be well spoken
for next week,” said  Richard Bryant , head of Treasury trading
in New York at MF Global Inc., referring to yields that touched
this year’s low. The company is one of the 20 primary dealers
obligated to participate in U.S. auctions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  