-- 
Roche’s Avastin Delays Death by Slowing Growth of Ovarian Cancer

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-06-04T22:09:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-04/roche-s-avastin-delays-death-by-slowing-growth-of-ovarian-cancer.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Avastin delayed
progression of ovarian cancer and cut the rate of death in some
women with the disease in two studies. They didn’t show that the
$58,000-a-year therapy could improve survival.  In one trial, Avastin combined with chemotherapy delayed by
four months the growth of cancer in women whose ovarian tumors
had returned. A subgroup of the second study showed 79 women
taking Avastin died, compared with 109 among those treated only
with chemotherapy. The data was released today at the meeting of
the  American Society of Clinical Oncology  in  Chicago .  The results have renewed debate over whether Avastin, the
world’s best-selling cancer drug, offers enough benefits to
merit U.S. marketing approval for use in the disease given its
side effects and costs. Use in ovarian cancer could help stem a
decline in sales. U.S. regulators on Dec. 16 said they intended
to revoke the drug’s conditional approval for use in  breast
cancer , citing lack of survival benefit. Roche appealed and a
hearing will be held June 28-29.  “There has to be very careful consideration of the costs
and benefits because the drug is quite expensive,” said  George
Coukos , director of the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Ovarian
Cancer Research Center, in a telephone interview. “It depends
on the margin of benefit one draws and the cost that society is
willing to pay for that margin,”  The data presented today will be used by Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche to seek approval for treating ovarian
cancer, said Philippe Bishop, head of Avastin clinical
development for the Swiss drugmaker.  $6.2 Billion in Sales  Avastin, developed by Roche’s South  San Francisco ,
California-based Genentech unit, generated revenue of $6.2
billion last year as a treatment for colorectal, brain, lung and
kidney tumors. It reached the market in 2004 as the first
medicine cleared to halt cancer growth by blocking a tumor’s
blood supply.  Ovarian cancer is rarely found in the early stages. By the
time it’s detected, it usually has spread outside the ovaries.
The average life span for women with advanced cancer is 2 1/2 to
3 years from the time the tumor is discovered, Coukos said in a
telephone interview. He wasn’t involved in either study.  About 21,880 U.S. women were diagnosed with the disease in
2010 and 13,850 died, according to the  American Cancer Society .  Study Results  One study followed 1,528 women newly diagnosed with high-
risk ovarian tumors. Half were treated with chemotherapy and
Avastin, followed by a year’s worth of Avastin, and the rest
were treated by chemotherapy alone.  After 28 months, 178 of the women who got both treatments
had died, compared with 200 of the women taking chemotherapy
only. Those results weren’t statistically significant. In a sub-
group of patients at highest risk, 79 women in the Avastin group
died, compared with 109 deaths among the patients treated only
with chemotherapy.  While the study is ongoing and the results are preliminary,
the findings in the smaller group of patients are considered
statistically significant, Bishop said.  The other study compared Avastin and chemotherapy with
chemotherapy alone in 484 women whose cancer had returned after
being treated with a previous round of chemotherapy. The women
who received both treatments went a median of 12.4 months before
their tumors grew, compared with 8.4 months in women who got
chemotherapy alone. The tumors shrank in 79 percent of the women
getting the combination and in 57 percent of those who were only
given chemotherapy.  “This is good news for women with ovarian cancer,” said
study leader  Carol Aghajanian , chief of the gynecologic medical
oncology service at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in
 New York . The drug “helps make ovarian cancer more of a chronic
disease.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 