-- ‘2 Guns’ Buddy-Cop Film Tops Weekend, ‘Smurfs 2’ Is Third
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-08-05T21:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/-2-guns-buddy-cop-film-tops-weekend-smurfs-2-is-third.html
“2 Guns,” a buddy cop comedy-thriller featuring  Denzel Washington  and  Mark Wahlberg , was the
top weekend film in U.S. and Canadian theaters, collecting $27.1
million for  Universal Pictures. (CMCSA)   “The Smurfs 2,” a family feature combining animation with
live action, opened with $17.5 million in receipts for  Sony
Corp. (6758)  to place third, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said
in a statement yesterday. The receipts, which missed the
estimate of  Boxoffice.com , were about half of the opening sales
for the original movie in 2011. The returning film “The
Wolverine” was second with $21.3 million.  “2 Guns,” a tale of undercover lawmen trying to catch a
drug kingpin, taps the bickering buddy movie formula
successfully mined by Hollywood in films such as “Lethal
Weapon” and marks the seventh No. 1 weekend opening this year
for Universal, part of Comcast Corp. The movie, made for $61
million, was projected to have sales of $34 million, according
to Boxoffice.com.  “The chemistry is obvious in the film,” Nikki Rocco,
president of distribution for  Universal Pictures , said in an
interview. “Hopefully, it finds its own life in a marketplace
that’s very crowded.”  Washington  plays Drug Enforcement Administration agent
Bobby Trench, while Wahlberg is cast as U.S. naval intelligence
officer Marcus Stigman. The two reluctantly work undercover as
members of a narcotics syndicate. When their attempt to
infiltrate a Mexican drug cartel goes haywire, they are
disavowed by their superiors and can only count on each other.  “This is a business where being No. 1 is always
wonderful,” Rocco said. “It’s nice to be on a roll.”  So-so Review  The film garnered a 59 percent favorable rating out of 97
reviews aggregated by Rottentomatoes.com.  “More is much less in ‘2 Guns,’” wrote Bloomberg News
critic  Greg Evans . “An extended and clever preamble raises our
hopes,” before the picture “devolves into an ultra-violent
mad, mad, mad world,” wrote Evans, who gave the film two stars,
or a “so-so” rating.  “The Smurfs 2,” which opened July 31, is the follow-up to
Sony’s 2011 global hit, which generated 75 percent of its $563.7
million in worldwide sales outside the U.S., according to Box
Office Mojo, an industry researcher. The picture combines
cartoon characters with live action and features Hank Azaria,
Neil Patrick Harris and Jayma Mays.  ‘Smurfs 2’  Produced at a cost of $105 million, “The Smurfs 2” will
need to replicate the success overseas to be profitable for
Sony, SNL Kagan said. Boxoffice.com had forecast weekend sales
of $23 million for “The Smurfs 2.” The first film generated
$35.6 million in domestic theaters in its opening weekend.  “U.S. interest in the 3-D franchise seems to have waned
among adult moviegoers,” SNL Kagan said in a note last week.
“International grosses will have to remain very strong for the
film to have a chance of making money.”  Rory Bruer, president of worldwide distribution for Sony
Pictures, said the first film, “The Smurfs,” exceeded “our
most wild” expectations and set a high bar for the sequel.  “We did open a little bit less than what we hoped for, but
I think we more than made up for it” internationally, he said
in an interview. The movie took in $52.5 million outside the
U.S., which was about 4 percent less than the 2011 opening of
the original movie, according to Sony.  ‘Blue Jasmine’  The sequel takes the diminutive blue cartoon characters
known as Smurfs to Paris and also features voices of Katy Perry
and Jimmy Kimmel. It had a 13 percent positive rating out of 72
reviews on Rottentomatoes. The studio is on track for a third
Smurfs film in 2015, Bruer said.  Among returning films, the Marvel superhero picture “The
Wolverine” from 21st Century Fox Inc. fell to second after
finishing atop the rankings a week ago. It has had sales of
$94.6 million in its two weeks of release.  “The Conjuring,” the low-budget horror from  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., dropped to fourth place with $13 million.  Woody Allen’s “Blue Jasmine” took in $1.86 million, after
opening to packed audiences in six theaters last weekend. This
past weekend it played in 50 cities, including Washington and
San Francisco, the setting for much of the film.  Starring  Cate Blanchett  as the wife of a Bernie Madoff-like
swindler, the movie may rival “Midnight in Paris” as Allen’s
top-grossing film, according to Michael Barker, co-president and
co-founder of  Sony Pictures Classics , which distributed both
movies.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 8.3 percent to
$123.3 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Attendance year to date is down 3.4 percent, while revenue has
declined less than 1 percent.  The following table has U.S. movie box-office figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on gross ticket sales on Aug. 2 to Aug. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Livesey in  San Francisco  at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at   rgolum@bloomberg.net  