-- A BRICS Bank Needs a Sense of Purpose to Succeed
-- B y   J i m   O ’ N e i l l
-- 2013-08-05T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/a-brics-bank-needs-a-sense-of-purpose-to-succeed.html
At their fifth annual summit in
April, the leaders of the BRICS nations said they would build
their own development bank. If it happens, this club of leading
emerging economies --  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India , China and South
Africa -- will be taking quite a step. Up to now their meetings
have produced bold statements, but little in the way of tangible
achievement.  Their meeting in Durban, South Africa, was  thin on details :
no announcement about where the new bank would have its
headquarters or how the institution would be funded. The
vagueness suggests the new bank’s true purpose hasn’t been
worked out. In a way, that’s understandable, because the BRICS
grouping is unusual. Even so, for this venture to succeed, the
new bank will need a clear rationale.  One of the main reasons it has been difficult for them to
cooperate is simply that they aren’t much alike. Four of the
five (the BRIC part of the group) are the world’s largest
emerging economies. Even this isn’t much of a similarity,
though:  China  is bigger than all the others put together. Its
growth in effect creates a new India every couple of years, or a
new South Africa every few months.  Putting size to one side, what else do they have in common?
Not that much. Brazil, India and South Africa are democracies;
China and Russia aren’t. China and India are major commodity
importers; Brazil, Russia and South Africa are major commodity
exporters.  They also have very different levels of income and wealth.
Russia’s  annual per capita income , adjusted for purchasing-power
parity, is about $24,000; on the same basis, Brazil, China and
South Africa have incomes of between $9,000 and $12,000; India
is much poorer, at about $4,000.  Odd Partners  I’m constantly reading that one country or another doesn’t
belong in the BRICS group. Having come up with the  idea  in the
first place, I don’t know whether to be amused or annoyed. The
fact is, it’s easy to make a case for excluding each one.  As time goes by, I see China as the real odd man out -- not
just because of its size but also because, despite the recent
slowdown, it’s the only one that so far this decade has met my
expectations for growth.  In economic terms, South Africa really doesn’t belong
either -- but the BRICS are a political grouping, not just an
economic one. The membership requirement, you might say, is a
compelling combination of economic potential and geopolitical
weight. In any event, South  Africa ’s a member, and debating
whether it deserves to be is pointless. What’s well worth
debating, though, is whether the decision to set up a BRICS bank
gives South Africa’s leaders a new chance to explain its
presence and make it count.  These sharply contrasting cases -- China and South Africa -
- are the ones that interest me most when it comes to planning
the new institution.  I ask myself why China is even interested -- remembering
that it already has the China Development Bank, which funds
overseas investments judged by Beijing to be in China’s economic
or geopolitical interests. Here’s my theory: China’s leaders may
see a BRICS bank as a low-risk rehearsal for the role they are
fated to play, in due course, at the IMF and the World Bank,
within the Group of 20 and maybe even at the United Nations.  What’s South Africa’s purpose? Some of its policy makers
tell me they aspire to act as go-between for the BRIC countries
on one side and Africa -- or least sub-Saharan Africa -- on the
other. That’s fine, but they should be a bit more specific.
South Africa has a well-developed financial sector, and the
expertise and experience that go with it. Why not use this
strength to fashion a role in drawing project-development money
to the many needy countries to their north?  If they fail to do this, you can bet that other rapidly
growing African countries, such as Nigeria (which before much
longer will have a bigger economy than South Africa), will
decide that the BRICS bank does little for them, and that South
Africa can’t serve as their BRICS representative.  New Demands  So much for the motives of China and South Arica. For the
group as a whole, the recent turmoil in Brazil,  Turkey  and other
emerging economies suggests -- or ought to -- what the larger
missing rationale should be.  The  reasons for the protests  in so many emerging economies
are complex, of course, and differ from case to case, but I see
two common factors. One: Fast-growing emerging economies have
rapidly expanding middle classes. These people have gained from
economic growth and are anxious to have more of the same. Two:
This new middle class sees governments wasting public money on
pet projects. They want investment in things that will make them
proud and more prosperous, and that will keep up the attack on
poverty.  How should governments respond? For many years at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., I followed scores calculated by our research
department for each of the emerging economies: a system of 18
variables that aimed to measure sustainable growth. For many
large emerging economies, including all the BRIC countries and
the “ Next 11 ” (apart from South Korea), three areas stood out
as vital for success.  First, governance -- meaning better government as opposed
to more. Second, education, including at the most basic levels.
Third, access to modern technology. Governments that raise all
three of these scores give their countries the best chance of
escaping once and for all from the so-called middle-income trap.  So I have a suggestion for the new bank, once it’s up and
running. Set country-by-country targets for improving
performance on each of these three measures over agreed periods.
Make these scores the organizing principle, and use them to
guide capital allocation. If a BRICS development bank adopted a
rationale such as this, used it to focus minds and  then
followed through with its decisions, it could do its members,
and others as well, a power of good.  (Jim O’Neill, former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jim O’Neill at  joneill62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Clive Crook at   ccrook5@bloomberg.net . 