-- Tablet Shipments Slow as IPad Sales Trail IDC Estimates
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-08-05T16:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/tablet-shipments-slow-as-consumers-await-next-ipad.html
Global tablet shipments slowed in the
second quarter from the previous three months as consumers put
off purchases of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad to wait for a new model
expected later this year, according to researcher IDC.  Unit sales declined 9.7 percent to 45.1 million, IDC said
in a statement today. IPad shipments slid to 14.6 million units
from 19.5 million in the first quarter, falling short of IDC’s
estimate for more than 17 million, according to Tom Mainelli,
research director for tablets at IDC.  Other than a new MacBook Air laptop, Apple hasn’t had a new
product go on sale since last year, leaving investors and
customers awaiting the release of a new iPhone and iPad, which
may arrive later this year. Apple, which had previously debuted
new iPads heading into the second quarter, is now holding off
for the  holiday shopping season , contributing to slower growth
for competitors such as Samsung Electronics Co., IDC said.  “When there’s a new iPad that launches, people get more
interested in tablets,” Mainelli said in an interview today.
“They go out to buy one, but they don’t want a $499 tablet, so
they buy one from one of the other major players.”  Steve Dowling, a spokesman at Cupertino, California-based
Apple, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Apple still led the tablet market with a 32.4 percent share
in the second quarter, IDC said. Samsung, in second place with
18 percent, had sales slip to 8.1 million units from 8.6 million
in the first quarter, IDC said.  Growth will pick up again in the fourth quarter of this
year, propelled by an updated iPad and new products expected
from companies including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , IDC said.  More portable, affordable and backed by hundreds of
thousands of applications, tablets are replacing personal
computers as consumers’ main tool for checking e-mail, browsing
websites and accessing music and movies. Tablet shipments will
eclipse PCs in 2015 as consumers flock to lower-priced and
smaller alternatives to the iPad, IDC predicted in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in  New York  at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  