-- Adele, Lana Del Rey Rivals Mix Erotic Harmony on Albums
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-08-05T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/adele-lana-del-rey-rivals-mix-erotic-harmony-on-albums.html
Record companies  are on the hunt for
women stars. Adele,  Taylor Swift , Lana Del Rey and Pink have
been outselling many of their male counterparts.  Here are a few names to watch.  The three Californian sisters and their drumming buddy in
Haim have yet to release an album, but they are already hyped to
the heavens -- deservedly so. Just last night it was confirmed
that “Days Are Gone” will be out on Polydor on Sept. 30.  Songs on their “Forever” EP have some serious don’t-mess-with-me vibes: “I never wanna see you again/ With the beating
of my heart witness/ I say no no no, I’m done.”  The comparisons with Stevie Nicks-style Fleetwood-Mac
aren’t just lazy journalism in the year of a new tour by the
veterans, who have a 35th-anniversary edition of “Rumours.”  Haim covers the fellow West-Coast-based group’s “Hold
Me,” and rather well as it turns out. There are also echoes of
 Janis Joplin  and some splashy guitar that would do Bob Seeger or
 Tom Petty  proud.  Azealia Banks has also yet to release an album but her sets
at the Governors Ball in  New York  and Glastonbury showed that
the hit “212” will be far from the best thing on “Broke With
Expensive Taste,” due later this year.  The wonderful  Fatoumata Diawara  from  Mali  also sounded
great at Glasto, even though we hadn’t a clue what the words
meant. Her CD “Fatou” helpfully includes translated lyrics.  Many people will already know of the new Adele. Her first
name is really Adele, though she uses the rest of her name Emeli Sande.  For someone who’s only been going a couple of years, Sande
has a lot of poise.  She comes teetering on in her big heels and higher Mohican
hair and has the chutzpah to open her shows with maybe her best
known song, “Heaven.” Oh, the confidence of a 26-year-old with
the world at your feet. She keeps “Next to Me” for an encore.  Those who have missed out on the shows can catch up with
the primer “Live at the Albert Hall.” It’s another parallel
with Adele, who also did a live recording there.  In a little over a year, the former medical student has
played the opening and closing shows of the Olympics, got
married and had Britain’s biggest selling record, “Our Version
of Events,” which is now available with extra tracks.  The commitment and quality of Eileen Rose’s performance
last month at the  Green Note  in Camden,  London , was the equal to
any of the above shows. She was on a short European tour,
playing to mainly small and packed venues, some of which
presumably could have sold out many times over.  Roses’s “Shine Like It Does” was a stunning start in 2000
and she has hardly put a foot wrong since. It’s slightly beyond
comprehension that someone this talented isn’t mega famous.  She’s moved to Nashville from  Boston  and teamed with the
impressive guitarist, Legendary Rich Gilbert. In the show’s
interval, the duo happily chatted with fans and signed their new
CD, “ Be Many Gone ,” which has a warm, country flavor. It’s
been on sale at gigs with general release soon.  Rating for all: ****.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market and
 Jeffrey Burke  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 