-- African Bank Gains Most Since June on Sale: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-08-05T15:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/african-bank-to-raise-405-million-to-shore-up-capital-position.html
African Bank Investments Ltd. (ABL)  jumped
the most in two months after South Africa’s largest provider of
unsecured loans said it plans to raise as much as 4 billion rand
($405 million) in a rights issue to bolster its capital.  The  stock  rebounded from a decline of as much as 13 percent
to gain 5.1 percent to 15.13 rand at the close in Johannesburg,
the biggest gain since June 4. More than 606 million shares
changed hands, over four times the three-month daily average.  African Bank, which gives loans not backed by assets to
low-income earners, said it enlisted  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to
help sell stock after it was unable to raise funds in
international debt markets this year. The bank said it will also
speed up the sale of Ellerines, its furniture retail business.  “It will most certainly provide a lot comfort to the
funders,” that capital will be increased,  Adrian Cloete, an
equity analyst at Cadiz Asset Management in  Cape Town , said in
an e-mailed response to questions today. “Ellerines has been a
big drag on the group, so it’s positive that the group has
decided to accelerate the disposal.”  African Bank doesn’t take deposits to fund lending. The
lender scrapped a plan to sell bonds outside of its local market
earlier this year after a regulator said it may fine the bank
over lending practises and bad debts rose. The South African
economy has slowed while consumer indebtedness has risen,
forcing the bank to curb lending and increase provisions.  African Bank bought furniture business Ellerines in 2008
and hasn’t met profit targets for the unit.  Questions on Pricing  “The question is whether they will get a good price for
the share sale and the sale of Ellerines,” Henre Herselman, a
derivatives trader at Nedbank Private Wealth in Johannesburg,
said today by telephone.  African Bank said advances through the fiscal third quarter
increased 19 percent to 60.3 billion rand, while the number of
loans declined 10 percent year-on-year to 17.7 billion rand. The
banking unit’s earnings for the second half of this year are
expected to be lower than in the first, the lender said.  African Bank has  dropped  53 percent this year, more than
any other bank in  South Africa . Capitec has gained 0.7 percent
and rose 2.3 percent to 184.19 rand in Johannesburg trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  