-- Thai Public Spending Delay Adds to Growth Risks: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-08-06T04:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/thai-public-spending-delay-adds-to-growth-risks-southeast-asia.html
Thailand ’s economic growth may slow
further this year as the government’s attempt to push through an
amnesty bill for political protesters risks delaying its $64
billion infrastructure spending plan.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s ruling Pheu Thai party
said it will resume debate tomorrow on a law to exonerate
protesters involved in demonstrations stretching from a coup in
2006 that ousted her brother,  Thaksin Shinawatra .  Prioritizing that legislation may mean lawmakers won’t have
time to vote on a plan to spend 2 trillion baht ($64 billion) to
modernize railways, roads and ports, an investment that the
government says may boost annual gross domestic product growth
by 1 percentage point and create 500,000 jobs. The
infrastructure bill hasn’t been scheduled during the three-month
parliament session that began last week.  “The delay will hurt growth,” said  Euben Paracuelles , an
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Singapore . “It will also
create a negative feedback loop. This could be interpreted by
investors as a sign that politics is rearing its ugly head
again,” he said, adding that a delay in infrastructure spending
may slow growth by about 0.3-0.5 percentage point.  The Bank of Thailand last month cut its expansion forecast
for this year to 4.2 percent from 5.1 percent and its export
growth estimate to 4 percent from 7.5 percent, citing cooling
global and local demand. Gross domestic product increased 5.3
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier.  The SET Index slid about 10 percent in the past 3 months,
the worst performer in  Asia , on concern export growth may slow
and the government’s amnesty push may spark political protests.
The baht dropped in July for a fourth straight month, its
longest losing streak since 2008.  Flood Channels  Yingluck’s government has raised minimum wages and handed
incentives to first-time car buyers to boost local demand after
floods in 2011 damaged factories and crimped consumption.
Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said last month the seven-year infrastructure spending plan is needed to offset weakness
in  exports (THCTEXPY)  and consumption.  A separate 350 billion-baht plan to build reservoirs and
flood channels in northern and central Thailand to prevent a
repeat of the deluge was put on hold after a local court ruled
in June that the government must first conduct public hearings
and study their environmental and health impact.  Similarly, the draft bill for investment in high-speed
trains, dual-track rails, roads and a new airport link is stuck
in parliament. Only 0.01 percent of the budget will be disbursed
this year starting November, the government estimates.  Forecasts Cut  Credit Suisse Group AG today cut its forecast for Thai
economic expansion this year to 4 percent from 4.7 percent,
citing delays in infrastructure spending and weaker-than-expected export growth.  “The medium-term outlook depends critically on three
factors: the execution of the infrastructure projects, the
momentum of domestic demand growth and a recovery in external
demand,” said Eugene Leow, an economist at DBS Group Holdings
Ltd. in Singapore.  Thailand should increase infrastructure spending as a
percentage of GDP, and needs about $105 billion in investments
by 2020, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Government
spending is projected to rise to 2-3 percent of GDP by 2020 from
about 1 percent now, Goldman Sachs estimates, lagging behind the
4-5 percent of GDP that the  Philippines  may spend.  “Implementation will be key, and will depend in part on
individual governments’ prioritization of infrastructure,”
Goldman Sachs economists led by  Andrew Tilton  said in a note on
May 30. “We think that political stability will be vital for
successful implementation of infrastructure plans.”  Philippines Investment  Philippine President  Benigno Aquino , who has overseen an
 economic resurgence , has made infrastructure a priority and is
seeking about $17 billion in investments to build highways and
airports. Public spending on infrastructure rose 42 percent in
the first half from a year earlier, government data showed.  Meanwhile, Yingluck risks reigniting street protests as her
party pushes ahead with an amnesty for jailed supporters and
changes to the constitution imposed after the 2006 coup.  The police closed five roads around parliament and
Government House yesterday amid concern as many as 5,000
protesters may join rallies against the amnesty bill this week,
spokesman Piya Uthayo said. About 3,200 people joined a
demonstration in Bangkok on Aug. 4, he said.  ‘Move On’  “People will monitor whether the protests are prolonged,”
Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said yesterday.
“I just hope all parties will think about the country’s benefit
and help find a solution to this, so we can move on to dealing
with other problems.”  The police may ask the government to extend the use of the
Internal Security Act beyond Aug. 10 if the protests grow, Piya
said. Thai Army Chief Prayuth Chan-Ocha yesterday dismissed
rumors that the army may seek to topple the government, and
urged people to stop spreading “damaging” coup rumors.  Japanese investors, Thailand’s biggest source of foreign
direct investment, have complained about project delays,
Kittiratt said. While companies including Toyota Motor Corp. and
 Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  won’t move their production bases from
Thailand, they may reconsider expansion plans if flood-prevention measures aren’t completed on time, he said.  “Thailand has a poor record when it comes to implementing
big infrastructure projects,” Gareth Leather and Krystal Tan of
Capital Economics Ltd. said in a July 29 research note. The
government has spent only 60 percent of its planned budget over
the past eight years, they said.  Exports in June unexpectedly fell, slipping for a second
straight month, while manufacturing output declined for a third
month. An index of consumer sentiment fell in July, its fourth
straight monthly decline.  The Thai Chamber of Commerce said last month that the
government must ensure its infrastructure-investment plans are
transparent and include public participation to avoid delays.  “We support the government’s plans to invest in
infrastructure, but we want them to be careful in implementing
and prioritizing projects,” said Pornsilp Patcharintanakul, the
chamber’s vice chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  