-- Malaysia Shootings Surge as Businessman Gunned Down in Sabah
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2013-08-05T10:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/malaysia-shootings-surge-as-businessman-gunned-down-in-sabah.html
A 44-year-old businessman was shot
dead in Malaysia’s eastern Sabah state, raising concern over a
surge in gun violence after Prime Minister Najib Razak scrapped
a law used to tackle hard-core criminals.  Since July 26, there have been at least 10 public shooting
incidents around the Southeast Asian nation, leaving five people
dead including Hussain Ahmad Najadi, the 75-year-old founder of
 AMMB Holdings Bhd. (AMM) , Malaysia’s fifth-biggest lender, according
to data compiled by police and published on an official Facebook
page. In the Sabah incident, the businessman died in a drive-by
shooting in Kota Kinabalu on Aug. 3, police said.  Najib abolished the Emergency Ordinance two years ago as
part of a move to boost civil liberties. The law allowed
suspects to be detained for as many as two years with a
minister’s consent and had been introduced in 1969 following
race riots. He also scrapped the Internal Security Act, which
was introduced in 1960 to tackle a communist insurgency and gave
police wide-ranging power to detain suspects indefinitely. The
government is considering new preventative laws, the premier
said last month after Najadi’s death.  “Underworld elements are bold enough to carry out these
actions because they know for police to catch and arrest them
it’s going to be very challenging,” P. Sundramoorthy, a
professor of criminology at Universiti Sains  Malaysia , said in a
phone interview today. “The Emergency Ordinance allowed police
to create a case over hard-core criminals.”  Murder Rate  Gun ownership in Malaysia is restricted, and holders are
required to carry licenses. Sundramoorthy said Malaysia hadn’t
seen this many fatal shootings since a communist insurgency in
the late 1950s and 1960s.  An unemployed man is in critical condition after being shot
by two men on a motorcycle this morning in Kelantan on
Malaysia’s east coast, the News Straits Times reported today,
citing Mazlan Lazim, the state’s deputy police chief.  Murders rose 11 percent to 322 in Malaysia in the first six
months of this year compared with 2012, according to police
statistics provided by the government’s Performance Management &
Delivery Unit. Total violent crimes increased 1.9 percent to
15,098 over the same period, the data show.  The surge in violence is partly due to the abolition of the
Emergency Ordinance which led to 2,600 hardcore criminals and
gang members being released from detention, the  malaymailonline 
reported July 9, citing Home Minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi.  Najadi Case  “It’s quite unusual for Malaysia to have so many cases in
the past month,” Lee Hock Guan, a senior fellow at Singapore’s
Institute of Southeast Asian Studies, said by phone. “Unless
you see a clear pattern over a longer term you cannot conclude
that violent crime is a normal state of affairs.”  Police have identified suspects behind several murder cases
involving firearms, including Najadi’s shooting, Bernama
reported today, citing Inspector-General of Police Khalid Abu
Bakar. There may be a gun-running racket in the country
contributing to the surge in violence, he was cited as saying.  A man suspected of shooting AMMB founder Najadi is believed
to still be in the Kuala Lumpur area, Ku Chin Wah, the city’s
Criminal Investigations Department chief, told reporters in the
capital today. Police plan to extend a remand order for a taxi
driver who is believed to have ferried the murderer, Fu said.  Election Pledge  Najib’s coalition was returned to power in Malaysia’s May 5
general election by its narrowest margin since independence from
Britain in 1957. The prime minister pledged during his campaign
to make fighting crime and corruption a policy priority.  Voters cited crime and social problems as their biggest
concern after the  economy  in a survey of 1,018 people conducted
in December by the Merdeka Center for Opinion Research.  “The prime minister has made tackling violent crime a
priority and has said that all resources needed to fight crime
will be made available,” Najib’s office said in an e-mailed
statement to Bloomberg News. “The government is committed to
fostering a modern democracy in which safety and security will
not be compromised in our efforts to strengthen civil
liberties.”  Najib also cited the potential for political misuse of the
Emergency Ordinance and ISA among reasons for scrapping the
laws. Opposition leaders including Anwar Ibrahim, Lim Guan Eng
and Karpal Singh had previously been held under the ISA. The
same regulation remains in neighboring  Singapore , another former
British colony.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  