-- Alex Rodriguez Penciled Into Yankees’ Lineup as Drug Ban Looms
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/alex-rodriguez-penciled-into-yankees-lineup-as-drug-ban-looms.html
Alex Rodriguez  has been tentatively
put into the lineup for tonight’s game against the  Chicago White
Sox  as the  New York Yankees  wait to see if he’s suspended by
 Major League Baseball , manager  Joe Girardi  said.  Rodriguez, a three-time American League Most Valuable
Player, heads a group of players investigated by MLB for
connections to Biogenesis of America LLC, the now-closed Miami-area clinic accused of supplying performance-enhancing drugs.  MLB informed the Yankees that Rodriguez will be suspended
today, probably through the 2014 season, and would be able to
play while he appeals the discipline, the  Associated Press 
reported last night, citing an unidentified person familiar with
the deliberations. About 12 other players will also be suspended
today, with most of those agreeing to accept 50-game suspensions
without appealing, ESPN said.  “All of us are curious what’s going to happen and if Alex
is going to be a player for us, and what’s going to happen with
the other guys that are involved in this,” Girardi told
reporters before the Yankees’ 6-3 loss yesterday in San Diego.
“In my mind, I have him penciled in here.”  MLB spokesman Pat Courtney declined to comment about the
Biogenesis case. Rodriguez’s lawyer, David Cornwell, didn’t
immediately answer an e-mail sent out of normal business hours.  Rodriguez, who has an MLB-record 10-year, $275 million
contract, flew to  Chicago  yesterday to join the Yankees after
playing two rehabilitation games with the team’s Double-A minor-league affiliate in Trenton, New Jersey.  Suspension Challenge  Rodriguez isn’t interested in a settlement with MLB and
planned to challenge any suspension in arbitration, ESPN
reported on Aug. 3, citing an unidentified person in Rodriguez’s
camp. Rodriguez turned down MLB’s offer to drop a lifetime ban
if he agreed to give an arbitrator the flexibility to impose
more than a 50-game suspension, according to ESPN.  The league’s joint drug agreement says that a first-time
violation for using performance-enhancing drugs results in a 50-game ban. Rodriguez has never failed a publically-announced drug
test, though he previously acknowledged using banned drugs in
2001-03, while with the  Texas Rangers .  If Rodriguez fights a suspension, baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  could declare him ineligible to play during the appeals
process to protect the best interests of the sport, ESPN said.
Rodriguez, who stands to lose more than $34 million in salary if
he’s suspended through next season, may then file a grievance if
MLB refuses to let him play.  AP said yesterday that Rodriguez may not be suspended
through 2014, when he’s due $25 million, if he gives up the
right to file a grievance and go to arbitration.  ‘Anxious’ Rodriguez  Rodriguez, baseball’s active career home-run hitter with
647, hasn’t played in the majors this season while recovering
from left hip surgery in January. Girardi said he exchanged  text
messages  with Rodriguez following the games in Trenton and that
Rodriguez is “anxious” to rejoin the Yankees.  The Yankees are scheduled to play the White Sox in the
opener of a three-game series starting at 8:10 p.m.  New York 
time.  “I don’t suspect it’ll be awkward,” Girardi said of
having Rodriguez back with the team. “Most of the guys know him
as a teammate and have laughed a lot with Alex and been around
Alex a lot. I’m sure there will be more media there, but that’s
more for Alex to deal with than the rest of the guys.”  The longest major- league drug ban is 100 games, against
pitcher Guillermo Mota for failing two doping tests.  Braun Ban  National League MVP Ryan Braun of the  Milwaukee Brewers ,
who was also connected to Biogenesis, last month accepted a
suspension from MLB that keeps him out of the final 65 games of
this season for unspecified drug violations.  Texas Rangers All-Star outfielder  Nelson Cruz  said he
expects to hear from MLB today about a ban for his involvement
with Biogenesis. The Rangers’ leading home-run hitter said
yesterday he hasn’t decided whether he’ll appeal a 50-game
suspension, which would keep him out for the rest of the regular
season. Cruz would be eligible to return for the playoffs if the
Rangers qualify for the postseason.  “It’s not just about myself, it’s also about the team,”
Cruz, who will become a free agent after the season, told
reporters. “I don’t know what will happen.”  All-Star shortstops Jhonny Peralta of the  Detroit Tigers 
and Everth Cabrera of the  San Diego Padres  are also among those
players facing Biogenesis-related suspensions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  