-- Aluminum Costs Falling as Lawmakers Focus on Long Waits
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-08-05T14:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/aluminum-premiums-falling-as-u-s-lawmakers-focus-on-long-lines.html
The rates to obtain aluminum tumbled
the most in 20 months in Europe last month and retreated from a
record in the U.S. as lawmakers and regulators scrutinize long
lines for metal that buyers say raised their overheads.  The surcharge added to the price of aluminum for immediate
delivery on the London Metal Exchange slid 7 percent in Europe,
the most since November 2011, according to Metal Bulletin data.
U.S. costs dropped as much as 23 percent from a record in June,
 Harbor Intelligence  in Austin,  Texas , says. Premiums may fall 25
percent more by year-end at this pace after the LME submitted
plans to ease a backlog of metal, Barclays Plc estimates.  Consumers led by brewer MillerCoors LLC told a U.S. Senate
hearing last month that banks and other warehouse owners are
using “unfair” LME rules to slow deliveries. The LME, which
oversees more than 700 warehouses worldwide, proposed rules July
1 to cut waiting times. The LME and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
which owns exchange-approved warehouses, are restraining
aluminum supplies and driving up prices in violation of federal
antitrust law, according to a lawsuit filed in Detroit Aug. 1.  “The fall in physical premiums for aluminum over the past
two weeks is, in our view, only the beginning of this process,”
Peter Richardson, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in  London , said
in a report e-mailed today.  Rotterdam Rates  The aluminum premium was $250 to $275 a metric ton in
Rotterdam last week, compared with $270 to $295 in June, London-based researcher CRU said. The premium aluminum buyers are
expected to pay in the U.S. Midwest fell to 10 cents to 11.7
cents a pound from a record 12 cents to 13 cents a pound in
June, Harbor Intelligence said.  The LME proposed obliging warehouses where withdrawals take
more than 100 days to deliver out more metal than they take in.
That spurred warehouse companies to curb incentives because
they’re less certain about future income in view of potential
changes to delivery rules, CRU said.  Detroit , New Orleans, the
Dutch port of Vlissingen, the Belgian city of Antwerp and
 Malaysia ’s Johor have waits for metal exceeding 100 days,
according to Barclays.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., the owner of the LME,
and New York-based Goldman said separately that the suit is
without merit and they will contest it “vigorously.”  Goldman’s Metro International Trade Services LLC owns the
most LME-approved warehouses in Detroit, the world’s second-largest aluminum repository. The lawsuit against the bank and
the LME was by Superior Extrusion Inc., which is seeking class-action status.  Customer Orders  Goldman and LME restrained about 1.5 million tons of
aluminum in LME Detroit warehousing, “through an interconnected
series of agreements in unreasonable restraint of trade,”
causing delays of as long as 16 months between customer orders
and corresponding deliveries, Gwinn, Michigan-based Superior
alleged.  Metal premiums are added to exchange benchmarks and cover a
purchase of specific quality of metal in a particular location,
reflecting local supply and demand on the physical market,
according to Macquarie Group Ltd. in London. The European
aluminum premium accounts for 13 percent of the total cost of
buying metal, compared with 7.6 percent three years ago,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on Metal Bulletin
data. Companies don’t usually protect against changes in
premiums through hedging.  MillerCoors Argument  Global aluminum costs were inflated by $3 billion in the
past year through unfair rules that allow warehouse owners to
slow deliveries, Tim Weiner, a global risk manager at Chicago-based brewer MillerCoors, said in written testimony before his
appearance July 23 at a U.S. Senate hearing. U.S. financial
regulators told a Senate hearing July 30 they will boost
scrutiny of banks’ commodities holdings and the Federal Reserve
said last month it will review a decade-old decision to let them
trade raw materials. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission sent a letter to companies asking them not to destroy
documents relating to warehousing since January 2010, according
to a copy of the letter obtained by Bloomberg.  Premiums had climbed to a record as wait times for aluminum
at LME-approved warehouses extended to more than a year. Supply
was further limited because as much as 80 percent of LME
stockpiles are tied to financing transactions and not
immediately available, Societe Generale SA estimates. Warehouse
operators offered incentives to attract metal into their sheds,
leaving consumers to compete for metal.  Aluminum, Zinc  The LME’s proposed rules will take effect April 1 if
they’re approved by the exchange’s board at a review in October.  “If the changes are adopted, we think the markets most
impacted by these changes will be in already oversupplied
aluminum and zinc,” Richardson of Morgan Stanley said. “Given
the substantial amount of metal in these warehouses, the LME
system would temporarily become a supplier and we expect
increased availability of physical metal to exert downward
pressure on the LME price.”  Aluminum for delivery in three months dropped 0.4 percent
to $1,801.25 a ton by 3:02 p.m. on the LME. The metal fell 13
percent this year. Production will exceed demand for a seventh
consecutive year, according to Morgan Stanley. Zinc fell 0.5
percent to $1,856 a ton, and is down 11 percent this year.  “Reported premiums in Europe and North America do appear
to be softening, part of which can be explained by seasonal
factors with the summer months traditionally slower, and part by
stock holders choosing to reduce some of their positions on the
basis of their expectations of the LME rule changes,” Steve Hodgson, director for sales and marketing at United Co.  Rusal (486) ,
said.  European Cutbacks  Moscow-based Rusal is the world’s biggest producer of
aluminum. European producers of the metal used in beverage cans
and cars will suffer the most from a drop in premiums, Barclays
said Aug. 1. A $200 drop in premiums may cut aluminum output
outside  China  by 600,000 tons within six months and by 1.8
million tons in a year, the bank said. Most cutbacks would occur
in Western Europe, it said. Global aluminum  production  will be
50.5 million tons this year, Morgan Stanley says.  Goldman Sachs offered July 31 to speed up delivery of
aluminum to users of the metal and proposed changes to industry
rules. Consumers should have priority over other clients in
getting aluminum out of LME warehouses, it said. Novelis Inc., a
maker of aluminum parts for  The Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and Ford Motor
Co., said Goldman’s offer to speed up deliveries will provide
“no benefit” to industrial users stuck paying higher premiums
because of long delays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  