-- American Eagle Tumbles as Earnings Trail Forecast
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-08-06T20:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/american-eagle-falls-after-earnings-trail-forecast.html
American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO) , a
teen-apparel chain, tumbled the most in more than three years
after saying second-quarter profit was less than it forecast
amid disappointing sales of women’s clothing.  The shares  slid  12 percent to $17.57 at the close in New
York, the most since May 26, 2010. The company said yesterday
earnings for its most recent quarter were as much as 52 percent
lower than its forecast.  Preliminary same-store sales, including online
transactions, fell 7 percent in the second quarter, compared
with an 8 percent increase a year earlier, the company said.  A
“highly promotional retail environment” that intensified last
month and weak customer traffic also affected the results,
according to a statement.  “The teen customer is still very constrained,” Pamela Quintiliano, a New York-based analyst at  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) ,
said in a phone interview. “It’s going to be a very difficult
back half of the year for all the teen retailers,” said
Quintiliano, who has the equivalent of a hold rating on the
shares.  Sales could be further affected as retailers begin stocking
fall and back-to-school products, she said.  Earnings in the quarter ended Aug. 3 were about 10 cents a
share, less than the forecast of 19 cents to 21 cents, the
company said. Revenue decreased about 2 percent.  American Eagle broadened its markdowns to clear out excess
inventory for a “clean” position in the third quarter, Chief
Executive Officer Robert Hanson said in the statement.  “Our efforts are keenly focused on strengthening our
women’s business and ensuring our assortments are compelling,
innovative and balanced across core, core fashion and fashion,”
Hanson said.  American Eagle will report full second-quarter results Aug.
21.  The shares had declined 14 percent this year, compared with
a 19 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  