-- Hamptons Scene: Perlman, Paul Schenly Keep Beach in Tune
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-08-05T19:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/hamptons-scene-vying-with-berkshires-in-piano-strings.html
A friend is telling me she can do
downward dog on her paddle board.  I tell her about the fantastic classical musicians I heard
the other night in a packed concert hall in Southampton.  She gapes, just as I had.  We are at the  Golden Pear  in Bridgehampton, a long way from
Lenox Coffee in Lenox,  Massachusetts , where the porch fills with
 Tanglewood  gossip.  In the Hamptons, there is just enough classical music for
just enough people who want it, meaning there are old people
here too, as well as music lovers who don’t want to put their
city habits on hold. There’s also history: composer, conductor
and pianist Lukas Foss, who studied conducting at Tanglewood and
was a member of the Boston Symphony Orchestra, had a home in the
Hamptons for more than 20 years and spent time here for almost
50.  Tonight at 5:30 p.m. is the final 2013 Monday-night
 Pianofest in the Hamptons  recital at the Avram Theater in
Southampton.  The musicians are at the start of their careers, selected
by audition to live and practice here for a month in a house
filled with Steinways. The tradition marks its 25th anniversary
this season.  In recitals, the musicians each play a piece, then Paul Schenly, Pianofest’s founder and director, gives feedback.  “Performers think of the melody, composers think most of
the time of the bass. Could you try?” Schenly directed a
musician at one recent installment, with more than 200 people in
the audience.  Ear Training  The exercise trains the ear of the listener as much as the
pianist.  On Schumann: “The danger in the second movement is that it
becomes a series of pretty little phrases, whereas it’s one
very, very long line,” Schenly advised. “Let’s play both
hands.”  The music on the program is not announced in advance and
tickets are $20. Candy and conversation with the musicians
follow.  On Shelter Island, violinist  Itzhak Perlman  brings together
teenage string musicians to study in a camp-like setting.
Concerts are free on Fridays and Saturdays. A music-making
workshop for families takes place at the  Ross School  in East
Hampton on Sunday, Aug. 11.  Wanting Music  Bridgehampton Chamber Music Festival  has 11 concerts this
season, featuring about 40 musicians, through Aug. 18. Most are
at the Bridgehampton Presbyterian Church and tickets start at
$35.  “When we started this 30 years ago, everyone said are you
crazy? The only thing anyone wants to do here is go to the beach
and cocktail parties,” said Marya Martin, artistic director.
“I was just adamant that there’s more to people than that, that
people want music in their lives.”  The festival commissions work, including a piece by
Pulitzer Prize-winning composer Kevin Puts, which will have its
debut on Sunday, Aug. 11. It is called “Seven Seascapes for
Flute, Horn, Violin, Viola, Cello, Double Bass and Piano.”  The festival paid to install air conditioning in the church
where the musicians rehearse and perform. The town put up a
crossing to help people navigate Route 27 on concert nights.  If  New York ’s cultural institutions have an official
outpost, it’s the John Drew Theater at  Guild Hall  in  East
Hampton . St. Luke’s Chamber Ensemble will perform there Sunday,
Aug. 11 at 8 p.m. On the program: Mozart’s Clarinet Quintet in A
Major and Beethoven’s Septet in E-flat Major. Tickets are $25-$75.  All these groups are relatively tiny compared to Yo Yo Ma
and Joshua Bell’s stomping ground in the north. The budget for
the Bridgehampton Chamber Music Festival is $650,000, Martin
said. The budget for Tanglewood is about $25 million, a part of
the Boston Symphony Orchestra’s $84 million operating budget,
said a BSO spokesman.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on  TV , Patrick Cole on
 philanthropy .  To contact the writers on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 