-- Hang Seng Bank Net Doubles to Record on Accounting Gain
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-08-06T04:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/hang-seng-bank-profit-doubles-to-record-on-accounting-gain-1-.html
Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11) , the Hong Kong
lender controlled by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , said first-half profit
doubled to a record, beating the highest estimate in a survey on
a one-time accounting gain and higher loan and fee income.  Net income  climbed to HK$18.5 billion ($2.4 billion), or
HK$9.66 a share, from a restated HK$9.25 billion, or HK$4.84, a
year earlier, as the bank changed its treatment of a 10.9% stake
in  Industrial Bank Co. (601166) , Hang Seng said in a filing to the Hong
Kong stock exchange yesterday. That exceeded the HK$16.1 billion
median of six analyst estimates surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
figures ranged from HK$12.8 billion to HK$17.4 billion as
predictions for the accounting gain varied.  Hong Kong’s second-largest local lender by assets booked a
one-time gain of HK$9.52 billion as it reclassified the stake as
a financial investment instead of an associate.  China ’s slowing
economy, funding costs in Hong Kong and on the mainland and
greater competition will contribute to a challenging operating
environment in the second half, Chief Executive Officer Rose Lee
said at a news conference yesterday.  “With a more challenging outlook in the second half and
the unlikely sale of Industrial Bank in the near term, we see a
lack of near-term positive catalysts on Hang Seng Bank,”
Sharnie Wong, a Hong Kong-based analyst of Barclays Plc, wrote
in a research report yesterday.  Shares in the bank lost 0.3 percent to HK$121.20 in Hong
Kong trading at the mid-day break, poised for the first decline
in five days. The stock has risen 2.1 percent this year,
compared with the benchmark Hang Seng Index’s 3.4 percent drop.  Bank Lending  Hang Seng joins  Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23) , the third-largest
local lender, in beating analyst estimates as Hong Kong lending
surged in June. Excluding the one-time gain on the Industrial
Bank stake, Hang Seng’s first-half net income’s increased 27
percent from a year earlier, according to yesterday’s statement.  The bank’s lending climbed 8.1 percent from the end of last
year to HK$581.1 billion as of June 30, compared with the
industry’s 9.5 percent rate and 9.3 percent at Bank of East
Asia.  “Intensifying competition for deposits will drive up the
cost of funds,” Ismael Pili, head of Asia bank research at
Macquarie Capital Securities Ltd., said in an e-mail. “Funding
cost holds the key” to Hang Seng’s lending margin.  China Earnings  Net interest income, the difference between what the bank
makes from lending and what it pays on deposits, rose 8.2
percent to HK$8.97 billion. Hang Seng’s net interest margin, a
measure of lending profitability, was unchanged at 1.84 percent
compared with the second half of last year, according to the
statement.  Net fee and commission income, from services such as credit
cards and selling mutual funds, increased 22 percent to HK$2.94
billion.  In  mainland China , Hang Seng’s operating profit declined 35
percent to HK$129 million from a year earlier as net interest
income fell. Pretax profit in China, including an accounting
gain of HK$8.45 billion from the Industrial Bank stake, jumped
250 percent to HK$8.6 billion.  The bank plans to add branches and expand existing ones in
select areas of China, without “massively” booting its
presence in the country, Lee told reporters in Hong Kong today.  The bank’s total capital adequacy ratio under the latest
Basel III rules was 15.8 percent, while core equity Tier 1
capital ratio was 13.6 percent, Hang Seng said in the statement.
It didn’t give comparative figures as this is the first year for
such disclosure.  Mortgage Lending  Hang Seng’s net interest margin on mortgages widened
slightly in the first half, Lee said, adding that she doesn’t
see much room for higher mortgage pricing as the city’s property
transactions remain low.  The bank ranked second in the city’s home loan market last
month with a 15.2 percent market share, according to Hong Kong-based  mReferral Mortgage Brokerage Services . That compared with
a 15.7 percent share at Bank of China (Hong Kong) Ltd.  While home lending will slow in the second half of the
year, mortgage pricing will remain stable, Lee said. The bank
plans to focus on middle-class home buyers and buyers who plan
to live in purchased properties.  Home  transactions  fell to the lowest since 1996 in the
first half after the government in February doubled stamp duty
taxes on property sales to quell concerns that an asset bubble
is forming. Homebuyers’ sentiment was further damped by signals
that interest rates will soon begin to increase as the U.S.
economic recovery strengthens.  Since taking office in July 2012, Hong Kong Chief Executive
Leung Chun-ying has also favored local permanent residents over
foreigners, tightened mortgages and increased land supply after
 home prices  doubled since 2009. The  value of new mortgages 
approved in June declined 26 percent to HK$15.7 billion from
HK$21.3 billion a year earlier, right before Leung’s tenure
began.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  