-- AngloGold Eyes Australian Growth on Optimism Prices Will Rebound
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-08-05T06:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/anglogold-eyes-australian-growth-on-optimism-prices-will-rebound.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s
third-biggest producer of the precious metal, is committed to
growing its operations in  Australia , betting a recovery in
bullion prices will counter rising energy costs.  The company may evaluate gold assets on offer in Australia,
including those being sold by the world’s largest  Barrick Gold
Corp. (ABX) , said Graham Ehm, executive vice president of Australasia
at AngloGold. The Johannesburg-based company will continue
exploring around its Tropicana mine in Western Australia to
identify growth opportunities, he said.  “Australia is a pretty good base,” Ehm said in an
interview in Kalgoorlie, Western Australia. “If you’ve got a
good base then you continue to invest in that base.”  The decline in the Australian dollar, which has dropped
against each of its Group of 10 currency peers in the past three
months, has pressured energy costs, particularly diesel which
the company purchases in U.S. dollars, Ehm said. While AngloGold
is working on an assumed price of less than $1,300 for next year,
it remains optimistic about the potential for gold to increase,
Ehm said, without giving a forecast.  “We are now at about $1,300, and we’ll do our plans at
probably a bit lower than that,” Ehm said. “In the long term,
we are still pretty bullish about gold. It’s still a commodity
that’s sought after by India and  China . It’s a commodity where
you can’t turn production on quickly.”  AngloGold fell 1.3 percent to $12.55 in  New York  on Aug. 2.
The shares have fallen 60 percent this year, compared with a 15
percent increase in the benchmark NYSE Composite Index.  Currency Decline  The Australian dollar fell 3.8 percent last week to 89.05
U.S. cents, the steepest slump since September 2011.  AngloGold’s Tropicana mine, 330 kilometers (205 miles)
east-northeast of Kalgoorlie, will produce its first gold in the
September quarter, earlier than planned, the company said in a
 statement  on Aug 1. The project is forecast to produce as much
as 490,000 ounces of gold a year at a cash cost of between A$590
and A$630 per ounce. That’s about half the production cost at
AngloGold’s Sunrise Dam mine, also in  Western Australia , and
below the average cash cost of $894 an ounce in the first
quarter of 2013.  “At remote operations like Sunrise Dam and Tropicana your
energy bill is something like 30 percent to 40 percent of your
total costs,” Ehm said. “Right now we are adjusting to the
drop in the gold price. How that evolves in terms of the
planning cycle, I’ve got ideas on, but no concrete plans.”  Tropicana, Sunrise  Tropicana, where AngloGold has a 70 percent stake, had
initially been forecast to begin production in the December 2013
quarter.  Independence Group NL (IGO)  holds the remaining stake in the
mine. AngloGold will this year switch its Sunrise Dam operation,
220 kilometers northeast of Kalgoorlie, to an underground
operation from a combined open-pit and underground mine.  “As the gold price comes down, AngloGold has to adjust and
our asset mix will change,” Ehm said. “With the projects
coming online it’ll look like quite a different company in the
next 12 months.”  Mark Cutifani , who ran the gold producer before he was
appointed chief executive officer at  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  in April,
believes looming cuts to production in the industry will help
 gold prices  rebound.  “I don’t see the gold price staying low for a protracted
period of time because the drop in production that will occur
will be quite significant and will surprise everybody,”
Cutifani said June 26 in an interview in Canberra.  Across its operations, AngloGold forecasts it will produce
as much as 4.1 million ounces this year, the company said in a
statement on July 16. The company had previously forecast a
range of 4.1 million ounces to 4.4 million ounces.  The producer said it would take an impairment charge of
$2.2 billion to $2.6 billion after revaluing its assets and ore
stockpiles amid gold’s 22 percent slump this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  