-- Tanker-Rate Slump Signals Retreat in U.S. Oil Imports: Freight
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-08-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/tanker-rate-slump-signals-retreat-in-u-s-oil-imports-freight.html
The biggest slump in tanker rates
since January is signaling weaker U.S. oil imports and spurring
analysts to predict a 15-year low for shares of  Frontline Ltd. (FRO) ,
whose ships haul almost enough crude to meet daily world demand.  Rates for the biggest crude carriers tumbled 68 percent in
the past two weeks, more than reversing their advance since the
end of June, according to Clarkson Plc. Earnings had risen after
oil cargoes to the U.S., the second-biggest source of demand for
supertankers, expanded for three months. Shares of Hamilton,
Bermuda-based Frontline will plunge 43 percent in a year, the
average of 13 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed.  U.S. oil imports rose as domestic prices reached a 17-month
high, narrowing the discount to foreign crude and making
shipments from abroad more attractive. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Credit Suisse Group AG say the gap will widen again as the
nation meets the highest share of its own energy needs in almost
three decades. The world’s largest economy is already importing
28 percent less oil than the peak in 2005, government data show.  “There might be a temporary blip, but imports are going to
come off in the next couple of months,” said Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo whose
recommendations on shipping-company shares returned 47 percent
in the past two years. “That’s reflected in the freight rates.
I’d advise my clients to short stocks of crude-tanker owners.”  Break Even  Rates for very large crude carriers, each hauling 2 million
barrels, fell to $7,954 a day on Aug. 2, having risen as high as
$24,493 on July 12, according to Clarkson, the biggest
shipbroker. Earnings last exceeded the $25,500 that Frontline
says it needs to break even in November. Freight swaps indicate
the vessels won’t be profitable again until at least 2015.  Frontline’s net loss will widen to $123.7 million this year
from $95.4 million in 2012, according to the mean of 19 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The shares, down 16 percent to
15.60 kroner this year in Oslo trading, will reach 8.84 kroner
in 12 months, the forecasts show. That would be the lowest price
since April 19, 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company operates 32 VLCCs and 18 Suezmaxes half the
size, with a combined carrying capacity of about 82 million
barrels. Freight rates can be an early indication of imports
because it takes about 50 days to book a cargo of Middle East
oil and deliver it to Houston.  Saudi Arabia  is the U.S.’s
biggest supplier of seaborne crude, customs data show.  Seaborne Supply  Daily U.S. imports, including by pipeline, reached 7.73
million barrels in May, up from this year’s low of 7.27 million
barrels in February, according to the most recent government
data. Seaborne supply will average 5.4 million barrels a day in
2013, from 6.1 million last year, Clarkson estimates. The U.S.
is exceeded only by  China  in demand for VLCCs, shipbroker ICAP
Shipping International Ltd. says.  China’s crude imports averaged 23.03 million metric tons a
month in the first half, down 1.3 percent from a year earlier,
customs  data  show. That was the first drop since at least 2005
in the country’s buying.  The Asian nation’s purchases will expand 8 percent to 5.4
million barrels a day this year, matching U.S. demand for the
first time, Clarkson says. China’s manufacturing unexpectedly
strengthened in July, signaling increasing demand for energy,
government data show.  North Sea  West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark U.S. oil grade, now
trades at a $1.77-a-barrel discount to Brent, which is pumped
from under the  North Sea  and used to price imports. The discount
on a closing basis narrowed to 20 cents on July 19 from as much
as $23.18 in February.  U.S. oil prices may still be high enough to draw imports to
the East Coast because of costs to transport crude internally,
according to  Omar Nokta , a New York-based analyst at Global
Hunter Securities. Delivering oil on tankers from West Africa is
about $6 a barrel cheaper than by railroad from the Bakken shale
formation in  North Dakota , he says.  Tanker rates also may get a boost because the fleet’s
biggest expansion since the 1970s is ending. VLCCs on  order  at
ship yards are equal to 5.2 percent of existing capacity, the
smallest proportion in at least eight years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg from IHS Fairplay, a Redhill, England-based maritime researcher.  Chemical Exports  While U.S. oil production is bearish for crude tankers,
it’s boosting demand for ships to export refined products,
chemicals and liquefied petroleum gas. The U.S. government
prohibits shipments of most crude grades, spurring sales of
products derived from the oil.  Earnings for chemical tankers will reach the highest since
2009 next year, according to RS Platou Markets AS, an Oslo-based
investment bank. Shares of  Scorpio Tankers Inc. (STNG) , the Monaco-based owner of refined-fuel carriers, will jump 18 percent in
the next year, the average of 11 analyst estimates showed. LPG
transportation costs are the highest for the time of year since
at least 2005, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in London.  That wasn’t enough to lift the overall profitability of the
merchant fleet after owners ordered too many new vessels just
before the start of the global recession. The ClarkSea Index, a
measure of earnings across the fleet, is on course for the
lowest annual average since at least 1990.  The VLCC fleet has about 20 percent too much capacity, the
most since the mid-1980s, according to Sverre Bjorn Svenning, an
analyst at Fearnley Consultants A/S. Overseas Shipholding Group
Inc., the largest U.S. tanker operator, sought  bankruptcy
protection  in November, about a year after second-ranking
General Maritime Corp. took the same step.  Analysts at Goldman and Credit Suisse expect WTI’s  discount 
to Brent to expand to at least $6 a barrel by the end of the
year. Futures indicate the gap will reach $3.38 by December and
$7.46 a year later.  “Buyers will import less crude as the WTI discount widens
once again,” said Simon Newman, head of tanker research at ICAP
Shipping International in London. “The narrowing spread showed
there was some potential trade for the market, but it won’t
supply the amount of cargoes needed to make a difference.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  