-- Marubeni to Buy Mainstream Renewable Stake, GDF Power Assets
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-08-05T07:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/marubeni-to-buy-mainstream-renewable-stake-gdf-s-power-assets.html
Marubeni Corp. (8002)  will pay as much as
100 million euros ($133 million) for a holding in Ireland’s
Mainstream Renewable Power Ltd. and will take a 50 percent stake
in a subsidiary of GDF Suez SA.  The Tokyo-based company will acquire about 25 percent in
Mainstream, becoming the second-largest shareholder in the
company, according to a statement today from Marubeni, Japan’s
biggest power and agriculture trading company. Mainstream, set
up in 2008, has developed more than 19,000 megawatts of solar,
and offshore and onshore, wind projects in seven countries,
according to the statement.  Marubeni also signed a strategic partnership with GDF Suez,
a French power and gas utility, for half of National Power
International Holdings B.V. National Power International holds
GDF’s thermal and renewable power projects in  Portugal .  The Japanese trading company is already partners in a
floating wind turbine project off the coast of Fukushima and is
working to revive the country’s geothermal industry.  The announcements came as Marubeni expands its portfolio in
power generation. The deals announced today will make Marubeni
the first Japanese independent power producer to have a net
generating capacity of 10,000 megawatts, according to the
company.  Globally Expand  Through the partnership with  GDF Suez (GSZ) , Marubeni will manage
 power plants  totaling 3,300 megawatts, or about 17 percent of
the power generation capacity in Portugal, the trading company
said in a separate statement today.  “Marubeni hopes to globally expand its already established
partnership with GDFS in  Asia  and the Middle East markets by
creating this new strategic partnership in the European
market,” the company said. Nikkei reported that the alliance is
intended to develop projects in Europe and Africa.  Marubeni and Innovation Network Corp. of Japan in 2012
bought Seajacks International Ltd., the North Sea operator of
self-propelled vessels used to install and maintain offshore
 wind turbines . In 2011, the company also acquired a 49.9 percent
stake in Gunfleet Sands, the U.K. offshore wind farm owned by
 Denmark ’s Dong Energy A/S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  