-- Asia Stocks Fall as Topix Drops, U.S. Jobs Miss Estimates
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-08-05T10:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/asian-stocks-fall-first-day-in-three-led-by-industrial-shares.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the benchmark
regional index on course for its first loss in three days, as
the yen’s gain weighed on Japanese exporters and U.S. jobs data
missed estimates.  Mazda Motor Corp., an automaker that gets 30 percent of its
sales in  North America , dropped 4.1 percent in Tokyo. Fonterra
Shareholders Fund tumbled 3.7 percent in Wellington after  China 
and Russia halted imports of milk powder from Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy exporter.
Tianneng Power International Ltd., a maker of storage batteries,
tumbled as much as 19 percent before it was suspended from
trading in Hong Kong.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index fell 0.2 percent to 135.3 as of
7:37 p.m. Tokyo time, with more than five stocks dropping for
every four that rose. The gauge rose 0.1 percent last week,
capping a sixth week of gains, the longest such winning streak
since the period ended Jan. 4.  “ Japan  is still very choppy for me, to be honest,”  Chris Weston , chief market strategist at IG Markets Ltd. in  Melbourne ,
said by telephone. The U.S. payrolls figures “weren’t
significantly weak enough to say we’re definitively putting
tapering off the table, but didn’t certainly suggest there’s
rampant recovery going on in the jobs market. There’s a
recovery, but it’s not enough to suspend the bond-buying
program.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 1.3 percent last month
after China pledged to do more to support a transition from
reliance on exports to domestic demand in the world’s second-largest economy. Shares on the gauge traded at 13.2 times
estimated earnings as of Aug. 2, compared with 15.5 times for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13.8 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index.  Regional Measures  Japan’s Topix index  lost 1 percent after the yen gained 0.6
percent on Aug. 2. A stronger yen cuts the value of overseas
earnings at Japanese companies. The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding
Japan Index rose 0.3 percent.  South Korea ’s Kospi Index lost 0.4 percent.  New Zealand ’s
NZX 50 Index added 0.1 percent, while  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200
fell 0.1 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index rose 0.5 percent and
 Singapore ’s Straits Times Index slid 0.4 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index, the city’s benchmark gauge,
rose 0.1 percent. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index slipped
0.1 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index added 1 percent.  China Services  An index of China’s non-manufacturing sectors rose for the
first time since March, a report Aug. 3 showed. HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics’ China services gauge was unchanged at
51.3 in July from June, data showed today.  The People’s Bank of China will appropriately fine-tune
policies and strike a balance between stable growth, structural
adjustment, reform and risk prevention, according to a statement
after a meeting of chiefs of central bank branches posted on the
PBOC’s website Aug. 4.  Futures on the  S&P 500 index  were little changed today. The
measure advanced 1.1 percent last week, its biggest gain in
three weeks, as central banks vowed to maintain stimulus and
data showed economic growth beat projections in the second
quarter. U.S. employers added 162,000 workers to payrolls in
July, the least in four months and below a median economist
estimate of 185,000, data Aug. 2 showed.  Japanese exporters to the U.S. declined, with Mazda losing
4.1 percent 423 yen. Komatsu Ltd., a construction-machinery
maker that gets about 30 percent of its sales in the Americas,
slid 0.5 percent to 2,214 yen.  Toyota Motor Corp., Asia’s biggest carmaker, dropped 1.1
percent to 6,360 yen even after saying on Aug. 2 that net income
almost doubled to 562.2 billion yen ($5.7 billion) last quarter
as U.S. sales rose and the weaker yen boosted overseas profit.  Contamination Concern  Fonterra dropped 3.7 percent to NZ$6.86 after the New
Zealand company warned of a contaminated ingredient, prompting
China and  Russia  to suspend imports of its milk powder.  Chinese dairies advanced. Biostime International Holdings
Ltd., a supplier of baby products, surged 9.8 percent to
HK$43.35 in Hong Kong. China Modern Dairy Holdings Ltd., the
nation’s largest raw-milk producer, jumped 9.8 percent to
HK$2.59.  Tianneng Power fell 13 percent to HK$3.25 when trading of
its shares was halted. The company said it was “verifying the
facts with all the relevant bodies” after unspecified reports
on one of its factories. CCTV on Aug. 2 reported pollution at a
plant in Jiangsu province.  Of the 294 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
have posted results since July 1 and for which estimates are
available, 51 percent exceeded estimates, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  