-- Assad Says Syria Crisis Will Be Resolved on the Battlefield
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-08-05T15:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/assad-says-syria-s-crisis-will-be-resolved-on-the-battlefield.html
Syria ’s President Bashar al-Assad
said the nation’s two-year civil war that has claimed more than
100,000 lives can only be decided on the battlefield.  “All routes have been tried and there is only one option
left, which is to defend ourselves and our country with our own
hands, and in this case everybody looks naturally to the armed
forces,” Assad said yesterday at a banquet with social and
political figures, according to official news agency Sana.  “It will be decided on the field,” Assad said. While a
“parallel political course” is possible, the government won’t
see any negotiations as “justification to stop combating
terrorism.” Assad’s government says the opposition is led by
Islamist extremists, while the rebels say they’re fighting to
oust a dictator.  Syria’s civil war, which began with peaceful protests in
March 2011, has engulfed the nation and brought economic growth
to a halt. Both the opposition and Assad have accused each other
of targeting civilians and using chemical weapons. The U.S.,
which is backing the rebels, and Assad ally  Russia  have so far
failed to bring the sides together for talks.  Syrian rebels today clashed with government troops in the
western province of Latakia, home to members of Assad’s minority
Alawite sect, which has largely been spared the violence that
has devastated other parts of Syria. The rebels used locally
made rockets to target troops in Nabi Younes, the Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights  said in an e-mail today.  Currency Hit  The war, coupled with international sanctions against
Syria, sent the nation’s currency on a downward spiral. The
Syrian pound depreciated to a record 300 pounds to the dollar on
the black market in early July from 47 pounds to the dollar
before the crisis began.  The central bank intervened last month and announced it
would give dollars and euros to licensed exchanges at least
twice a week, the Economist Intelligence Unit said in a July 24
report. Syria also signed a $3.6 billion credit line accord with
 Iran  last month.  Assad issued a decree yesterday banning the use of all
foreign currencies, according to a statement on state-run Sana.
Violators may face as long as three years in prison. The decree
is meant to “prevent the dollarization of the economy,”
Central Bank Governor Adib Mayala said in a statement to Sana.  ‘Economic Hardship’  “The economic hardship that we are all suffering from, the
deteriorating services and the daily issues that we as Syrians
suffer from, are all linked to the security situation, and the
only solution is to strike against terrorism,” Assad said
yesterday. Assad said Aug. 1 that he was confident he will win
the war.  The  central bank  sold enough foreign currency at an auction
today to cover demand until next week, Mayala said, according to
Sana. The auction sold the pound at 173.27 to the dollar on the
basis it will be sold at 175 pounds to the dollar, Mayala said.
He said exchange companies can submit foreign currency purchase
requests in case of increasing demand and the Central Bank
“will always be ready” to meet it, Sana said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  