-- Aussie Trades Near 3-Year Low Before RBA Decision; Kiwi Rebounds
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-08-06T01:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/aussie-trades-near-3-year-low-before-rba-decision-kiwi-rebounds.html
Australia’s dollar held near the
lowest in almost three years against the greenback before the
 Reserve Bank  decides on policy today.  The Aussie declined against all its major counterparts, as
traders and economists predicted a record low for the benchmark
 interest rate .  New Zealand ’s dollar gained against most of its
peers after the nation’s trade minister said Chinese
restrictions on dairy products from Auckland-based Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd. were less severe than initially reported.  An RBA rate reduction today “almost looks like a done
deal, so it’s all about forward guidance, and the urgency they
have in delivering another cut,” said Stan Shamu, a Melbourne-based market strategist at IG Markets. “If they do cut and come
out with a wait-and-see approach, then that might be a little
less dovish than the market expected, and could lead to a
squeeze higher for the Aussie dollar.”  The Australian currency slipped 0.1 percent to 89.24 U.S.
cents as of 11:40 a.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it touched
88.48, the least since August 2010. The  New Zealand dollar  rose
0.2 percent to 78.36 U.S. cents, rebounding from 76.93 reached
yesterday, the lowest since July 8.  Traders are signaling certainty that the RBA will reduce
its key rate from the current record low by at least 25 basis
points to 2.5 percent at its meeting today, with 8.8 percent
odds of a 50 basis-point cut, according to  interest-rate swaps 
data compiled by Bloomberg. All but one of the 27 economists
 surveyed  by  Bloomberg News  predict the RBA will lower borrowing
costs.  Easing Cycle  A cut would be the second this year and extend an  easing
cycle  that began in November 2011, when the benchmark was
lowered from 4.75 percent. The central bank is trying to
stimulate growth in manufacturing, construction and retail, as a
record mining-investment boom wanes.  Australia ’s trade surplus was A$602 million ($537 million)
in June, from a downwardly revised A$507 million the month
before, the Bureau of Statistics said today in Sydney. The
median economist estimate was for a A$804 million surplus.  The nation’s economy will expand 2.5 percent this year,
slowing from 3.6 percent growth in 2012, according to the median
estimate of economists. Analysts in a separate poll predict the
Australian dollar will end the year at 90 U.S. cents.  The Aussie has dropped 12 percent in the past three months,
the most among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The kiwi dollar is the
next-biggest decliner, falling 6.7 percent.  Record Shorts  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Australian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was a
record-high 72,573 on July 30, compared with shorts of 63,982 a
week earlier.  “It’s been a sharp sell-off in a very short period of time
for the Aussie dollar,” said Shamu of IG Markets. “Just
considering that, it looks like we might have come off too much,
and a slight reversal in the short term might be something to be
aware of.”  China stopped imports of whey protein and a dairy base
powder from Fonterra used in  infant formula , not all Fonterra
milk powder as earlier stated by the Ministry for Primary
Industries, Trade Minister Tim Groser said yesterday at a news
conference in Wellington.  Fonterra said on Aug. 3 that three batches of the product
made last year may contain bacteria that can cause botulism.
Chief Executive Office Theo Spierings apologized in Beijing
yesterday and said  China  will lift restrictions on its products
as soon as the company provides more information.  “While reputational issues will linger, if the issue
doesn’t re-escalate, markets will quickly move on,” David Croy,
a Wellington-based researcher at ANZ National Bank Ltd., wrote
in research today. “With anecdotes and leading indicators all
generally positive, and carry still attractive, NZD looks set to
hold the bid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  