-- U.S. Stocks Retreat With Treasuries, Gold as Euro Climbs
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2013-08-07T14:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/australian-futures-drop-on-fed-outlook-as-kiwi-rebounds.html
(Corrects earnings growth under ‘Earnings Watch’ subhead
of story published yesterday.)  U.S. stocks fell for a second day as
retailers posted results that disappointed investors while trade
data fueled concern the  Federal Reserve  may begin to reduce its
bond purchases this year. Treasuries slid, while the euro gained
as reports signaled European economies are recovering.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.5 percent at 12:50
p.m. in  New York  while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index erased earlier
gains to close down 0.4 percent. Ten-year U.S. note yields
increased two basis points to 2.66 percent as the Treasury
prepared to sell $72 billion of debt starting today. The euro
advanced 0.3 percent to $1.3296 while Australia’s dollar rose
0.6 percent to 89.80 U.S. cents. Oil decreased 1.1 percent,
reversing earlier gains, while gold futures lost 1.5 percent.  The  U.S. trade deficit  narrowed more than forecast in June
to the lowest level since October 2009 as crude oil imports
declined and American companies shipped more goods abroad,
causing Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Barclays Plc to raise their
estimates for second-quarter economic growth. German factory
orders and U.K. industrial production rose more than economists
forecast in June, while the recession in Italy eased, reports
showed today.  “You got the stock market back to all-time highs, so a
prudent action is you sell the highs and buy the lows, and we’re
a long way from the lows,”  Tim Hartzell , who helps manage about
$425 million as chief investment officer at Sequent Asset
Management in Houston, said by phone. “We all have a fear of
the third quarter and the third quarter could be a lot more
volatile than traditionally given the politicized job interview
for the Fed position.”  Fed Speakers  The S&P 500 extended its biggest two-day retreat since
June. The index slipped 0.1 percent from a record yesterday
after Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank
is closer to slowing $85 billion in monthly bond buying and
warned investors not to rely on that stimulus. Atlanta Fed
President  Dennis Lockhart  told Market News International that if
economic growth and  job creation  pick up as expected, the Fed
should proceed with the “removal” of its asset purchases.  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans , a voting
member of the Fed’s policy committee who has consistently
supported increased stimulus, speaks to reporters today in
remarks that will be made public later. Evans said on May 20
that he’d like to see monthly employment growth of 200,000 or
more for at least six months before judging the labor market
substantially improved. Last week’s government jobs data showed
the nation added 162,00 positions in July.  U.S. Movers  Among stocks moving today, American Eagle Outfitters Inc.
fell 16 percent after the teen apparel chain yesterday said
second-quarter profit was less than it forecast amid
disappointing sales of women’s clothing and weak shopper
traffic. Abercrombie & Fitch Co. lost more than 5 percent. CVS
Caremark Corp. slid 2.2 percent after its forecast for full-year
adjusted earning-per-share trailed analysts’ estimates.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  declined 2.2 percent
today after saying it’s requiring the majority of its U.S.
employees in the hardware unit to take a week off with reduced
pay as it cuts costs amid slowing demand for products such as
servers. Credit Suisse Group AG cut the company’s rating to the
equivalent of sell, saying IBM has fewer ways to manage its
portfolio to reach its earnings goals and has seen “gradual
decline in the company’s competitive position across its
industries.”  Washington Post Co. (WPO)  climbed 4.2 percent after agreeing to
sell the Washington Post newspaper to Amazon.com Inc. Chief
Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  for $250 million.  The S&P 500 closed at a record of 1,709.67 on Aug. 2,
pushing its  valuation  to a three-year high. The benchmark index
ended last week trading at 15.5 times estimated earnings,
compared with an average of 13.9 over the last five years, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed. The index is up 19 percent in 2013
and has rallied about 151 percent from its bear-market low in
2009.  ‘Bit Overbought’  “The U.S. market is a bit overbought at the moment,” said
Enrico Carbonelli, a Lugano, Switzerland-based associate
director of  portfolio management  at BSI SA, which oversees the
equivalent of $93 billion. “In the coming month, we may see a
little bit of a correction before going higher. There’s a bit of
concern about the Fed tapering its stimulus, but bonds will
probably suffer more than equities.”  Volume of exchange-listed stocks reached 4.65 billion
yesterday, the slowest full-day trading this year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Intraday price swings have narrowed, with
fluctuations in the  S&P 500  averaging 0.65 percent during the
past 20 days through yesterday, the smallest change over a
comparable period since Feb. 1, the data show.  Earnings Watch  Per-share adjusted earnings have increased about 3 percent
for the 419 companies in the S&P 500 that posted results so far
in the reporting season, with 73 percent beating the average
analyst estimate. Analysts project companies in the gauge will
increase their third-quarter earnings per share by 3.3 percent
from a year earlier, and their profit in the fourth quarter by
9.9 percent, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The Stoxx 600 closed at a nine-week high yesterday
following six straight days of gains. Losses today were led by
commodity, utility and insurance companies as 14 of the index’s
19 industry groups retreated.  Salzgitter AG sank 12 percent as Germany’s second-largest
steelmaker forecast a pretax loss of about 400 million euros
($530 million) this year amid a slump in demand. Lanxess AG slid
4.3 percent after the German chemical maker cut its profit
outlook. Fresnillo Plc, the biggest primary silver producer,
tumbled 11 percent in London trading as profit fell.  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
was 6.2 percent lower than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, and 11 percent lower for the S&P 500.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell for the first time in
four days, losing 0.9 percent. India’s Sensex Index dropped 2.3
percent and main gauges in Russia,  Taiwan  and the  Philippines 
slid more than 1 percent. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index
of mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong  lost 0.8 percent while
the Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.5 percent.  The Aussie gained against 14 of 16 major peers as traders
pared bets on a reduction in Australian borrowing costs after
Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered the benchmark
 interest rate  to a record and refrained from signaling there was
room for more cuts. Australian bonds slid, with the 10-year
yield rising 12 basis points to 3.71 percent.  Stevens cut the overnight cash-rate target by a quarter
percentage point to 2.5 percent and said the RBA’s board “has
previously noted that the inflation outlook could provide some
scope to ease policy further.” Last month he said the outlook
for prices “may provide some scope for further easing.”  New Zealand’s currency rose after the nation’s government
said it expects the economy will avoid any immediate harm from
the suspension of sales of some dairy products to China after
the identification of a bacterial contamination that may cause
botulism. The kiwi strengthened 1 percent to 79.01 U.S. cents
after weakening for six straight days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  