-- Australian Retail Sales Little Changed in June; Aussie Declines
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-08-05T01:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/australian-retail-sales-little-changed-in-june-aussie-declines.html
Australian retail sales were little
changed in June as consumers spent less on books and sports
equipment in an economy grappling with a weaker outlook.  Sales were flat from a month earlier at A$21.8 billion
($19.3 billion) from a month earlier, when they gained a revised
0.2 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. The
result compares with the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 21 economists for a 0.4 percent gain.  Traders are pricing in a more than 90 percent chance
 Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board
will cut rates by a quarter percentage point tomorrow to a fresh
record of 2.5 percent, after lowering borrowing costs by 2
percentage points between November 2011 and May. Prime Minister
Kevin Rudd yesterday called an election for Sept. 7, saying the
campaign against opposition leader  Tony Abbott  will center on
economic management as a China-driven resources boom wanes.  “Households aren’t responding to rate cuts the way they
traditionally have,” Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s
Analytics in Sydney, said before the report. “Retailers are
struggling as households continue to pay down debt rather than
markedly increase discretionary spending.”  Spending on other retailing that includes books fell 1.1
percent, and consumers spent 0.2 percent less on clothing and
footwear, today’s report showed. They spent 0.9 percent more at
cafes and restaurants, it showed.  The local dollar fell, trading at 88.58 U.S. cents at 11:35
a.m. in Sydney from 88.80 cents before the release.  Inflation Contained  Retail sales, adjusted to remove inflation, were little
changed in the three months through June from the previous
quarter. Economists had forecast a 0.1 percent decline.  Government data showed last month that Australia’s core
inflation remained below the midpoint of the central bank’s 2
percent to 3 percent target in the second quarter compared with
a year earlier.  “We have been saying recently that the inflation outlook
may afford some scope to ease policy further if needed to
support demand,” Stevens said in a July 30 speech. “The recent
inflation data do not appear to have shifted that assessment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  