-- Barclays Said to Have Averted Exits of Energy M&A Advisers
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-08-06T16:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/barclays-said-to-have-averted-defections-of-energy-m-a-advisers.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  almost lost several key
U.S. energy investment bankers this year after they raised
concerns about compensation and tougher regulatory scrutiny of
European lenders, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Senior members of Barclays’s U.S. oil and gas team,
including co-head Gregory Pipkin, entertained job offers from
Bank of America Corp. and  Wells Fargo & Co . in April, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the matter is private.
Hugh “Skip” McGee, who became Barclays’s chief executive
officer for the Americas in May, persuaded the group to stay,
said one of the people.  Pipkin and McGee joined Barclays in 2008 from Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. after the U.K. firm bought the bankrupt
company’s U.S. units. The loss would have dealt a blow to
Barclays in a key area, as the bank ranked first among advisers
on deals involving energy companies last year, with $116 billion
in transactions.  It isn’t clear whether McGee agreed to give them raises to
get them to stay, one person said. The thwarted defections
underscore the turmoil faced by investment banks in  Europe ,
where proposed laws to limit compensation pose a threat to the
millions of dollars top merger advisers typically get for their
work.  Barclays fell 0.4 percent to 284.50 pence by the close of
London trading today.  Other Departures  At least three senior energy bankers have separately left
Barclays since the near group-defection, according to the people
familiar with the matter. Carlos Fierro, a Lehman veteran who
ran the global natural resources investment banking business
since 2008, announced his retirement in May, said the people.
Barclays replaced him with natural-resources co-heads Jeremy
Michael and Julian Vickers, both promoted from within the firm,
the people said.  Hank Hilliard, an oil and gas banker based in Houston who
joined Barclays with the Lehman crew, left recently for Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., the people said. Russell Johnson, who joined
Barclays in 2008 from Deutsche Bank AG, also departed to join
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the people said.  Marc Hazelton, a spokesman for Barclays, declined to
comment. Representatives at Bank of America, Capital One and
Wells Fargo didn’t reply to requests for comment. A voicemail
message left for Fierro seeking comment wasn’t returned, while
Hilliard and Johnson couldn’t be reached.  Broader Shuffle  The proposed pay rules in the European Union, which would
also apply to overseas units of European banks, would cap
bonuses at no more than twice fixed pay, although there is no
limit on base salaries. That has led some banks to consider
increasing base pay: HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest bank,
said yesterday bonuses shrank during the first half, while fixed
pay rose.  The near-defection of the Barclays advisers coincided with
a broader management shuffle at the investment bank, which
accounts for more than half of London-based Barclays’s earnings.
Barclays in April said that McGee would become head of the
Americas business and that Eric Bommensath and Tom King would
become co-CEOs of corporate and investment banking as the firm’s
securities unit refocuses on the U.S.  McGee was tasked with improving relations with regulators
in the U.S., after the U.K. bank agreed to pay $450 million in
fines for rigging benchmark  interest rates . The firm has also
pledged to cut pay and embrace humility.  Some U.S. investment banks also are trimming payrolls,
putting them at risk of employee departures. Morgan Stanley,
owner of the world’s biggest brokerage, set aside 1.4 percent
less to pay people at its investment banking and trading
division in the first half even as revenue rose in the unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  