-- Bets on Europe Ending Data-Roaming Charges Exaggerated
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-08-06T09:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/bets-on-europe-ending-data-roaming-charges-are-exaggerated-tech.html
Among the dirty words in today’s
telecommunications world, few are more reviled than “roaming
charges.” In Europe, because the mobile phone industry is so
fragmented, they’re an expensive fact of life.  Neelie Kroes wants to change that. Kroes, the European
Union commissioner drafting rules to stimulate the continent’s
lagging phone networks, says roaming charges have to be
eliminated in the region.  “As a matter of principle, you just can’t have roaming,”
said Ryan Heath, a spokesman for Kroes, in charge of the digital
agenda at the European Commission, the EU’s executive arm. “We
haven’t done this to take money away from people. We’ve done
this to untangle the mess of fragmented markets.”  If a New Yorker flies to California -- about 2,500 miles --
and posts shots of celebrity sightings to her Facebook account,
chances are she’ll pay as much as at home. If someone from
Britain goes to France -- about 21 miles across the Strait of
Dover -- each patisserie photo upload will cost an extra 1.40
pounds ($2.15).  Roaming charges make accessing the Internet expensive when
traveling internationally, which can be very short distances in
Europe. That hinders consumers from using data plans, one of the
key areas of growth for the industry, and hurts businesses that
work across borders, Kroes has said in speeches this year.  Maltese Market  Europe lags behind the U.S. and Asia in developing faster
fourth-generation networks, and carriers have less money to
invest in fixing that as price wars deter them from raising
tariffs. The real barrier isn’t roaming, it’s that hundreds of
providers operate across the bloc, driving down prices and
making new customers scarce, chief executives of companies
including  Orange SA (ORA)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  have said. Malta -- just
316 square kilometers (122 square miles) -- has three mobile
operators and more than 100 percent penetration.  Kroes’ goal is to create an environment in which carriers
can build networks and sell plans across the EU without getting
tied up by conflicting regulations, and where customers can use
their phones anywhere without running up terrifying bills or
finding services like Skype blocked. Her Europe would be more
like the U.S., where networks are faster and more people use
data plans to access the Web on mobile devices.  Kroes’ proposals for a unified European telecommunications
landscape are due in September. Heath declined to comment on
specific points in the draft, which is still private. Then the
European Parliament will discuss them and decide what to adopt
as part of efforts to spur job growth and overhaul the
regulatory framework for technology companies.  Wary Carriers  Getting support from a struggling wireless industry wary of
anything that may cut off a revenue source and the dozens of
local regulators eager to keep control over their phone networks
is proving difficult. Regulations that cut the prices that
carriers can charge for roaming or the wholesale prices that
competitors have to pay to access their networks are already a
burden, the companies have said.  “Price regulations have become a permanent feature of the
market and are hampering investments,” the industry body ETNO
said to the commission in June in a letter signed by the CEOs of
Orange, Telefonica,  Telecom Italia Spa (TIT) ,  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and
others, provided to Bloomberg by a person directly involved with
the negotiations. “The current framework is not adequate to
allow operators to generate sufficient cash flows to foster
investments in new state-of-the-art network infrastructure.”  Telekom Austria lost 2 percent to 5.16 euros at 10:51 a.m.
in Vienna as Deutsche Telekom dropped 0.7 percent to 9.13 euros
in  Frankfurt . Orange fell 0.5 percent 7.37 euros in Paris.  Commissioners’ Opposition  It has also been hard to get other commissioners on board.
Cabinet advisers to EU Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding and
Algirdas Semeta, the tax commissioner, have given negative
initial opinions on Kroes’ plan, people familiar with their
thinking said, without detailing why.  Before the proposals can be submitted in September, they’ll
need sign-off by the 28 commissioners, typically reached by
consensus rather than a strict vote. Once submitted, they’ll
need the backing of lawmakers in the European Parliament and EU
nations before it’s made law across the 28-nation bloc.  Spokeswomen for Reding and Semeta declined to comment on
the consultations.  The commission has already  imposed caps  on roaming charges
that took effect July 1. Under Kroes’ new proposal, the ceiling
would drop lower as of July 2014.  Roaming Alliances  Consumers can mitigate roaming charges by signing up for
special packages, which offer roaming at a discount.  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , Europe’s biggest wireless company, based in Newbury,
 England , lets customers mitigate these charges by signing up for
special packages, which offer roaming at a discount.  Eliminating roaming completely in the EU could hurt phone
companies, encouraging users to practice phone-plan arbitrage by
buying a cheap plan in one country and then returning home to
roam permanently at no extra charge, Sanford C. Bernstein
analyst  Robin Bienenstock  said in a note to investors.  “Roaming is the most surprising and potentially the most
disruptive aspect of the draft regulation,” Bienenstock said,
calling it “highly unlikely” the plan will create the pan-European regulatory coalition that Kroes envisioned.  “Instead, the regulation seems more likely to erode high
data prices near term and cap any upside long term,” she said.  The commission will discourage arbitrage and encourage
carriers to form alliances, reducing the incentives for people
to shop around across the EU, Kroes spokesman Heath said.  Besides, Heath said, it’s not all bad news for the
carriers, pointing to Kroes’ goals to make it easier to operate
across borders and navigate local regulatory frameworks.  “Access to more and cheaper spectrum and our efforts to
make the rollout of a network simpler” will offset some of the
lost roaming revenue, Heath said. “It’s all got to be put into
that perspective. It’s not us brushing the operators away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  