-- Biggest Rupee Swings in Year Eroding Bharti Earnings: Currencies
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-08-05T20:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/biggest-rupee-swings-in-year-eroding-bharti-earnings-currencies.html
India’s attempt to boost economic
growth while supporting the rupee is causing the biggest price
swings in the currency in more than a year, increasing costs for
companies from Bharti Airtel Ltd. to  Larsen & Toubro (LT)  Ltd.  The rupee’s three-month historical volatility rose to 11.42
percent, the highest level since December 2011, from this year’s
low of 6.17 percent on June 5, while measures for stocks and
 government bonds  also surged. The rupee tumbled 11.5 percent
against the dollar in the past three months, making it the worst
performer of 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after Brazil’s real.  The  Reserve Bank  of India cut  interest rates  in May to
stoke growth, raised them in July to shore up the rupee and then
signaled another reversal in policy last week. Bharti Airtel,
India’s largest mobile-phone operator, and Larsen & Toubro, the
nation’s biggest engineering company, say currency losses eroded
the latest quarterly earnings.  “What the RBI needed to do was to drive an unequivocal
message that shoring up the rupee is the foremost policy
priority, despite the flexibility it otherwise has,”  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho Bank Ltd. in Singapore, said in
an Aug. 2 e-mailed response to questions. “Forward guidance is
at best an inexact science and at worst a stab in the dark.”  Record Low  The rupee fell to a record 61.2125 per dollar on July 8,
from 54.9850 on Dec. 31, and was at 60.9025 in Mumbai yesterday.
India’s currency will end the year at 62, according to Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Macquarie Bank Ltd.  The RBI unexpectedly reversed a bias for policy easing on
July 15 by restricting banks’ access to cash through its daily
repurchase auctions, raising two interest rates and boosting
lenders’ daily cash-reserve ratios. This drove the three-month
interbank  money-market  rate above 11 percent.  The central bank surprised markets again on July 30 by
indicating that the tightening is temporary and that it will
switch its focus back to spurring growth once the currency
stabilizes.  The RBI’s “apologetic” tone confused investors,  Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura in Mumbai, wrote in a July 30
research report. Policy makers failed to quell market volatility
because they didn’t “come out with a heavy hand,”  Benoit Anne ,
the head of emerging-markets strategy at  Societe Generale  in
London, wrote in a July 30 e-mail response to questions.  Company Borrowings  Heightened swings in the rupee threaten to increase losses
on corporate borrowings from abroad and raise the risk of
defaults. Only half of local firms’ foreign-exchange exposure,
which included $200 billion of outstanding overseas liabilities
as of March 31, is hedged, Crisil Ltd., the local unit of
 Standard & Poor’s , said in a July 10 report.  India Ratings, the local arm of Fitch Ratings, said Aug. 1
that it may downgrade 65 of 290 investment-grade Indian issuers
it tracks should the rupee remain weaker than 60 per dollar for
“a sustained period.”  Bharti Airtel (BHARTI) , based in New Delhi, reported on July 31 net
income of 6.89 billion rupees ($113 million) for the fiscal
first quarter, 9.6 percent lower than a year earlier and missing
analyst estimates. The company recorded a 5.34 billion-rupee
loss on currencies and derivatives.  Larsen & Toubro posted a foreign-exchange loss of 2 billion
rupees for the same period, Chief Financial Officer R. Shankar Raman said at a July 22 press conference. New Delhi-based  Hero
MotoCorp Ltd. (HMCL) , India’s top motorcycle maker, will see an
“adverse impact” this quarter and next due to exchange-rate
fluctuations, Chief Financial Officer Ravi Sud told analysts on
a July 24 conference call.  Import Costs  JSW Energy Ltd. (JSW) , a Mumbai-based company that mainly uses
imported coal to produce power, will now hedge the entire $300
million of credit it uses to pay for shipments, compared with
one third previously, Vice Chairman N.K. Jain told reporters on
July 26.  Deepak Morada, a Mumbai-based spokesman at Larsen & Toubro,
declined to comment. Officials at Bharti Airtel, Hero MotoCorp
and JSW Energy didn’t reply to e-mail and mobile phone messages
left after business hours yesterday.  The RBI has tried to stem the rupee’s decline to prevent
inflation in a country that imports 80 percent of its oil and
which is already running a record current-account deficit.  The shortfall in the broadest measure of trade widened to
an unprecedented 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the
year ended March 31, official data show. India’s economy
 expanded  5 percent in the 12 months ending in March, below the
10-year average of about 8 percent, the Central Statistical
Office in New Delhi said May 31.  Hedging Costs  The cost of hedging against currency swings has climbed to
a record. The price of onshore contracts that fix the conversion
rate for buying dollars with rupees in a year’s time touched an
annualized 8.84 percent over the spot rate on July 24, up from
the past year’s low of 5.36 percent on Oct. 19, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The rupee’s losses have spurred outflows of $10.2 billion
from local stocks and bonds in the last two months, according to
the market regulator, driving the benchmark S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  stock
index down by more than 2 percent. The  extra yield  on three-year
Indian company bonds over government notes jumped to 237 basis
points, or 2.37 percentage points, on Aug. 2, the highest level
since March 2009.  Delaying Recovery  The surge in funding costs will delay an economic recovery
and lead to more credit-rating cuts than upgrades for Indian
companies, Crisil said in a July 25 report.  Fifty-day volatility on the 50-share  CNX Nifty Index (NIFTY) 
touched 19.6 percent July 18, the highest since April 2012,
while a similar measure for 10-year Indian  sovereign bonds 
jumped to 21.83 percent on July 29, the most since June 2009,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Demand for protection against swings in Indian lenders’
shares is rising as investors weigh the effect of the central
bank’s new policies, according to Mirae Asset Global Investments
(India) Pvt. The CNX Bank index’s implied volatility, used to
gauge the cost of options, climbed 31 percent last month, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “If you are not optimistic on the economy then you cannot
be optimistic on banking stocks,” Anand Shah, the chief
investment officer at BNP Paribas Asset Management India, which
oversees about $650 million, said in a July 25 phone interview.  ‘Calibrated Manner’  The RBI will maintain the tightening measures and curbs on
currency trading as long as market volatility remains high,
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said July 30. The steps will be
withdrawn “in a calibrated manner” once stability is restored,
he said.  “This seems perfectly reasonable to us and, in fact, this
type of early guidance addresses some of the concerns we had
raised about their actions,”  Marc Chandler , the global head of
currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York,
wrote in an Aug. 1 research report. “Still, markets were not
happy with the trade-off in currency stability for growth.”  Volatility in the rupee and other emerging-market
currencies also worsened because of mixed messages from the
 Federal Reserve . On May 22, the Fed indicated it could pare
stimulus should the  U.S. economy  improve, and a month later
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said there’s no fixed schedule for
scaling back the program. On July 31, he said the central bank
would keep its $85 billion of monthly bond-buying.  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, has
risen 327 basis points since May 31 to 12.5 percent.  “With no clear direction from the external environment,
volatility in the markets is likely to continue,”  Indranil Pan ,
an economist at  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB)  in Mumbai, said in a
July 31 phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  