-- Billionaire Pritzker Purchases Rest of Commune Hotels
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-08-05T22:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/billionaire-pritzker-purchases-rest-of-commune-hotels.html
Billionaire John Pritzker, the son of
the late founder of the  Hyatt (H)  Hotels Corp. chain, bought the 50
percent of closely held  Commune Hotels and Resorts  that he
didn’t already own for an undisclosed amount.  Through his private-equity firm Geolo Capital, Pritzker
purchased the stake from the Pomeranc brothers -- Jason, Michael
and Lawrence -- who had formed a joint venture with Pritzker in
October 2011. The three contributed hotels from their Thompson
chain, founded by the brothers in 2001, to the partnership.  Pritzker is taking over six Thompson properties including
two in New York, the Hollywood Roosevelt in Los Angeles and the
Belgraves in  London , as well as the Thompson brand name. Not
included in the deal are 60 Thompson, Thompson LES and 6
Columbus in  New York ; Hotel Victor in  Miami Beach ; and the
Thompson Beverly Hills. Thompson LES and Thompson Beverly Hills
will change their names under the brand-acquisition agreement.  “This creates better alignment between management and
money,” Pritzker said of the buyout in a telephone interview.
“It allows us to use our own capital, to grow our three brands
in the way we want to, and have a single, focused management. We
won’t have two different points of view.”  Tommie Brand  Over the past five months, Pritzker has assembled a new
management team for Commune, which aside from the Thompson
hotels also includes 27 Joie de Vivre boutique properties and a
new “value-conscious” brand known as Tommie. Two  Tommie -
branded properties are under development in New York.  The team includes Chief Information Officer Mike Blake, who
previously held the same position at Hyatt; Phil Keb, executive
vice president of development; Rick Colangelo, executive vice
president of operations, who was formerly at Kimpton Hotel &
Restaurant Group LLC; Jorge Trevino, executive vice president of
brand operations; and  Greg Smith , an executive vice president
who will oversee human resources training and recruitment.  Pritzker in November hired Niki Leondakis, who had been at
Kimpton for 19 years, as chief executive officer of Commune
Hotels. The purchase of the Pomeranc family’s stake will make
the company more “nimble,” she said in an interview.  “This way we can make decisions more quickly,” she said.  Jason Pomeranc and his brothers “are incredibly proud to
see how Thompson Hotels has evolved into an enormously impactful
global hospitality brand,” he said in a statement today. “We
now look forward to exciting new endeavors and wish John
Pritzker and the entire Commune family well.”  Family Settlement  Pritzker founded Geolo Capital after a 2001 settlement
divvied up the family fortune. It awarded Pritzker and 10
siblings and cousins at least $1.35 billion apiece, according to
court documents. The family retains a controlling stake in
Hyatt, started by Jay Pritzker. Pritzker left the company, where
he started his hotel career as a teenager, in 1988.  Commune has 43 properties and 14 under development,
including five in New York, Pritzker said.  Through the Joie de Vivre chain, which Pritzker acquired
control of in 2010 for an undisclosed price, Commune includes
such properties as Hotel Tomo and Hotel Vitale in  San Francisco ,
Hotel Lincoln in  Chicago  and Carmel Valley Ranch, a golf-and-spa
resort with more than 400 acres (160 hectares) in  California .  The company plans to expand domestically in such markets as
Los Angeles,  Seattle  and south  Florida . Internationally, it’s
focused on  Asia ,  Europe  and  Canada , Leondakis said.  Pritzker reiterated his 2012 goal for Commune to reach $1
billion in revenue within five years. That compares with the
almost $500 million expected in 2013.  The company has been in talks with investment firms to help
expand Commune, including some it has done other deals with,
Pritzker said. A year ago, Pritzker and AJ Capital Partners
bought the Chicago Athletic Association building for $13 million
and agreed to spend $20 million to convert it to a luxury
boutique hotel.  “We’re looking to grow as long as we’re being
productive,” Pritzker said. “We have done it and continue to
do it. There’s a number of different ways to deploy our money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  