-- MBK Said in Exclusive Talks to Buy ING’s Korean Insurance Unit
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2013-08-05T08:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/mbk-said-in-exclusive-talks-to-buy-ing-s-korean-insurance-unit.html
MBK Partners Ltd., a buyout firm
formed by former Carlyle Group executives, entered exclusive
talks with  ING Groep NV (INGA)  to buy its Korean life insurance
operations, two people familiar with the matter said.  ING has ended exclusive negotiations with Seoul-based
 Tongyang Life Insurance Co. (082640) , the people said, asking not to be
identified because the discussions are confidential. Yonhap
reported yesterday that MBK offered about 1.8 trillion won ($1.6
billion) for the business.  Selling the business to MBK would bring ING, the biggest
Dutch financial-services company, closer to fulfilling its
pledge to divest assets following a 2008 government bailout. ING
failed to sell its Korean life insurance assets last year to KB
Financial Group Inc., after the KB Financial board scrapped the
plan. The Amsterdam-based firm had planned to raise about $2
billion from the sale.  Three calls to MBK Partners’ office in Seoul weren’t
connected to executives and the company didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the discussions. Raymond Vermeulen, an
Amsterdam-based spokesman for ING, declined to comment on the
sale process.  ING said last month that it would sell its South Korean
investment-management business to  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,
 Australia ’s largest investment bank. The Dutch company agreed to
sell its global insurance and investment-management operations
to win European Union approval for bailouts in 2008 and 2009 and
has since disposed of more than 25 assets for at least 20
billion euros ($26.6 billion).  MBK Partners, formed in 2005 by five former Carlyle
executives led by Michael Kim, has $6.3 billion of assets under
management and oversees 18 portfolio companies including
Universal Studios  Japan  and New China Life Insurance Co.,
according to its website. The fund is considering a Singapore
initial public offering for its holding in Taiwan’s China
Network Systems Co., people familiar with the matter said last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  