-- Blue Earth Announces Binding MOU for ~$20 Million to Build and Operate 6 Solar PV Projects in New Jersey
-- B y
-- 2013-08-05T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/blue-earth-announces-binding-mou-for-20-million-to-build-and-operate-6-solar-pv-projects-in-new-jersey.html
Blue Earth Announces Binding MOU for ~$20 Million to Build and Operate 6 Solar 
PV Projects in New Jersey  Revenue From Third Party EPC Contracts for New Jersey and Hawaii Will
Significantly Accelerate Revenue Growth From Solar PV Projects for
the Remainder of 2013 and Through the First Part of 2014 as Compared
to the Entire 2012 Fiscal Year and the First Six Months of 2013  HENDERSON, NV  -- (Marketwired) -- 08/05/13 --  Blue Earth, Inc.
(OTCQB: BBLU) a renewable energy and energy efficiency services
company, announced today that its wholly owned subsidiary, Xnergy
Inc., entered into a binding Memorandum of Understanding ("MOU") to
construct 6 solar PV projects in the State of New Jersey. The
engineering, procurement and construction ("EPC") revenue for the
Company is approximately ~$20 million.   Under the binding MOU, Xnergy will provide EPC services for the
approximate 12.6 megawatts of solar PV projects. The EPC work is
expected to commence in the third quarter of 2013 and be completed
during the first quarter of 2014.  "These six projects, combined with the previously announced 24 Hawaii
solar PV projects (~$6 million) are expected to generate over $26
million in EPC revenues for BBLU over the next nine months," stated
Dr. Johnny Thomas, CEO of BBLU. "Management anticipates concluding
negotiations for additional solar EPC contracts of similar size, and
they are expected to begin construction during this fiscal year."  In addition, BBLU expects to finish several Company owned solar PV
projects and commence construction on other BBLU owned solar PV
projects during this third quarter. It should be noted that a
significant portion of the cash used for operations in the second
quarter and the cash being used in the current quarter is for project
development, as opposed to corporate expenses. These dollars are
expected to be returned to treasury when projects are completed,
through the sale of some projects or through a combination of tax
equity investors and debt, which allows BBLU to retain ownership and
make these projects part of our IPP (independent power producer)
portfolio.   The cash position of BBLU was significantly improved during the
quarter and debt was decreased, resulting in improved shareholder
equity. BBLU's improved cash position has enabled the seven large CHP
projects to progress in a timely manner. Our goal is to quickly
become a large IPP by retaining ownership of these projects, which
will result in minimal EPC revenue recognition in the short term in
order to maximize recurring revenues over the next 20 years through
PPAs. Management expects the initial seven CHP projects to be
completed during the mid part of 2014.  Revenues from the energy efficiency division of our business are
expected to increase during the second half of 2013, as utilities
begin to deploy funds from the new three-year funding cycle for
utility rebate programs. The new three-year utility rebate programs
have more dollars available for deployment than the preceding program
cycle. Our e-commerce unit of the EE division is experiencing
significant growth on a month over month basis and we expect this
trend to continue.   Xnergy is a full-service EPC (Engineering, Procurement, Construction)
firm, which has engineered, installed, and/or commissioned over a 100
MW of traditional and alternative energy systems. Energy provides a
broad range of comprehensive energy solutions including the design
and implementation of energy savings projects, energy conservation,
energy infrastructure outsourcing, power generation and energy supply
and risk management. Xnergy currently serves private and public
clients from all industries throughout the United States and helps
them minimize their energy consumption and reduce their carbon
footprint.   About BBLU  BBLU is engaged in the clean technology industry with a primary focus
on the energy efficiency and renewable energy sectors. We strive to
participate in the global movement for a sustainable planet by
offering products and services that will optimize energy use, reduce
harmful environmental emissions and substantially reduce energy costs
to our customers. For more information about Blue Earth, Inc., please
visit www.blueearthinc.com.  Forward Looking Statements  This press release contains forward-looking statements within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than
statements of historical facts included in this press release are
forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events
or to the Company's future financial performance, and involve known
and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our
actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be
materially different from any future results, levels of activity,
performance or achievements expressed or implied by these
forward-looking statements. Investors should not place any undue
reliance on forward-looking statements since they involve known and
unknown, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases,
beyond the Company's control which could, and likely will, materially
affect actual results, levels of activity, performance or
achievements. Any forward-looking statement reflects the Company's
current views with respect to future events and is subject to these
and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to
operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could impact the
Company and the forward-looking statements contained herein are
included in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or
revise these forward-looking statements for any reason, or to update
the reasons actual results could differ materially from those
anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new
information becomes available in the future.  Investor Relations Contact:  Blue Earth, Inc.
John C. Francis
Vice President
www.blueearthinc.com
702.263.1808 Ext. 103 
 jfrancis@blueearthinc.com   Liviakis Financial Communications, Inc. 
Michael Bayes
President 
www.liviakis.com 
415.389.4670 
 Michael@Liviakis.com 
