-- Botulism Scare Halts N.Z. Milk-Powder Sales to China, Russia
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-08-05T08:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/botulism-scare-halts-fonterra-milk-powder-sales-to-china-russia.html
China and  Russia  halted imports of
some milk powder from New Zealand’s Fonterra Cooperative Group
Ltd. after the largest dairy exporter warned of a contaminated
ingredient. The kiwi dollar fell to a one-month low.  Russia temporarily suspended purchases of all New Zealand
dairy products, Trade Minister Tim Groser said today at a press
conference in Wellington. China stopped imports of whey protein
and a dairy base powder from Fonterra used in infant formula,
not all Fonterra milk powder as earlier stated by the Ministry
for Primary Industries, Groser said.  Fonterra said on Aug. 3 that three batches of the product
made last year may contain bacteria that can cause a rare
illness called botulism. The contamination affects about 38
metric tons of whey protein concentrate, the company said today.
Chief Executive Office Theo Spierings apologized in Beijing
today and said  China  will lift restrictions on its products as
soon as the company provides more information.  The bans are nevertheless a blow for New Zealand, which
counts China as its biggest trading partner. Dairy products make
up about a quarter of the South Pacific nation’s exports, which
account for about a third of economic output. Fonterra collects
89 percent of the milk produced in New Zealand.  “It’s not good,” said Stephen Toplis, head of research at
Bank of New Zealand in Wellington. “It’s reputational risk more
than anything, and that will be determined by what happens over
the coming weeks in terms of how the company responds.”  Dollar Drops  The New Zealand dollar fell to as low as 76.93 U.S. cents,
the weakest since July 8, before recouping ground to trade at
78.03 cents at 7:14 p.m. in Wellington, a loss of 0.5 percent on
the day. The Fonterra Shareholders’ Fund fell 4.4 percent to
NZ$6.03 at the close, the most since the securities that track
Fonterra’s dividends and earnings began trading last year.  The potentially contaminated whey protein was manufactured
at one New Zealand plant in May 2012 and sold to eight Fonterra
customers, the company said. It is an ingredient in products
ranging from baby formula to sports drinks. The U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention  describes  botulism as a serious
paralytic illness.  About 17 tons of the contaminated protein was used by
customers in  Australia  and New Zealand to make about 2,100 tons
of infant formula, Fonterra said today on a call. The rest was
used by other customers including Coca-Cola Co. in other
products.  There have been no reports of any illness linked to
consumption of the affected products, Fonterra said.  Economic Impact  Markets including China, Australia, Thailand,  Malaysia ,
 Vietnam  and Saudi Arabia may be affected, according to the
Ministry for Primary Industries.  It’s too soon to speculate on any economic impact on New
Zealand, Groser said, adding he’s hopeful the trade bans can be
lifted in a matter of weeks.  Coca-Cola in China said it quarantined some whey protein it
received from Fonterra. Chinese regulators said companies
including Hangzhou Wahaha Group and Danone’s Dumex brand were
among importers of the potentially tainted ingredient. The
products were recalled, the regulator said.  Wahaha hadn’t found contamination in whey protein imported
from New Zealand last year in a recent self-check, the company
said in a statement on its website. No food safety issues were
found in products already sold and the company is closely
screening inventories, it said.  Scott Gallacher, acting director-general at the Ministry
for Primary Industries, said earlier today he wasn’t aware of
any market closures other than China and Russia.  China Trade  Fonterra, which accounts for about a third of the global
trade in dairy products and collects milk from 10,500 New
Zealand farmers, has said it expects dairy demand in China to
double by 2020.  The company started offering baby formula under its own
Anmum brand in selected Chinese cities this year. None of its
own branded consumer products are affected by the quality issue,
Fonterra said.  Prime Minister John Key said today that New Zealand can’t
afford to lose the trust of Chinese consumers. “It’s not what
the government thinks, it’s what consumers think, and that’s our
risk now,” he told Television New Zealand in an interview.  Spierings, who is visiting China for scheduled meetings,
apologized for the incident in Beijing today.  “We deeply apologize to the people who have been affected
by the issue,” Spierings said. Fonterra will be transparent and
work with the Chinese authorities to restore confidence, he
said.  Recall  Coca-Cola (KO)  Greater China said in a statement that 25
kilograms of Fonterra’s whey protein were used in the production
of isolated batches of the company’s Minute Maid Pulpy Milky
product. The company said it will recall products from these
batches in China. A further 4,775 kilograms of the whey protein
have been quarantined, it said.  External and internal experts confirmed its products are
safe due to an ultra-high temperature manufacturing process and
low acidity, which sanitizes the final product, Coca-Cola said.  In Vietnam, the health ministry ordered Abbott
Laboratories’ local unit to immediately recall and stop
circulation of baby formula products imported from Fonterra,
according to an Aug. 3 statement. Dumex  Thailand  said yesterday
it was recalling five baby formula products although none had
tested positive for contamination.  In New Zealand, five batches of Nutricia Karicare follow-on
formula products for babies were identified as potentially
containing contaminated protein. Nutricia, part of the Danone
Group, recalled two infant formula products in New Zealand.  Public Safety  Australia’s Department of Agriculture said the potentially
contaminated ingredient was imported from New Zealand for
further processing and it’s investigating whether any
consignments have been shipped on from Australia.  Fonterra’s “first and foremost interest” is food safety
and the safety of people in China and globally, CEO Spierings
said in Beijing.  Fonterra drew about 14 percent of its revenue from China in
the six months ended Jan. 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Fonterra in January had to assure China that traces of an
agricultural chemical found in some milk posed no health risks.
In 2008, locally made melamine-contaminated milk powder caused
an industry wide scandal in China, prompting the collapse of
Fonterra’s partner Sanlu Group.  China is stepping up scrutiny of local and international
food companies. This year it disclosed a probe into pricing of
baby formula, prompting companies from Danone to  Nestle SA (NESN)  to
cut prices. Fonterra in July said it would cut prices in China
for Anmum supplements for pregnant women.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  