-- Brazilian Real Declines to Lowest Level in Four Years
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-08-09T16:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/brazilian-swap-rates-climb-on-inflation-outlook-real-declines.html
(Corrects Luciano Rostagno’s title in seventh paragraph of
story that originally ran Aug. 5.)  Brazil ’s real fell to a four-year
low, adding to concern that a weakening currency will further
fuel inflation.  The currency depreciated 0.8 percent to 2.3060 per  U.S.
dollar , the weakest closing level since March 2009.  The real has tumbled 13 percent in the past three months,
the most among emerging-market dollar counterparts, boosting the
price of imports and threatening to further fuel inflation,
which helped spawn street protests in June. Economists raised
their 12-month forecast for increases in consumer prices to 5.93
percent from 5.83 percent, according to the median of about 100
estimates in a weekly central bank survey published today.  “The market sees the current relief in inflation as
temporary,”  Vladimir Caramaschi , the chief strategist at Credit
Agricole Brasil in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview.  Consumer prices as measured by the  IPCA index  climbed 6.24
percent in July from a year earlier after a June increase of
6.70 percent, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before a report Aug. 7 from the national
statistics agency.  Swap rates on contracts maturing in January 2015 dropped
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 9.69 percent
after rising 10 basis points earlier today. They climbed 32
basis points last week, the most since the period ended June 21.  “The market is taking advantage of the recent increases in
swap rates to make profits in a technical adjustment,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at Banco Mizuho do Brasil in Sao
Paulo, said in a phone interview.  Inflation Outlook  Brazil’s swap rates rose earlier today after the central
bank reported that economists raised their 12-month inflation
outlook, prompting speculation that the policy makers will step
up increases in borrowing costs.  The central bank raised the  target lending rate  by a half-percentage point July 10 to 8.50 percent, the third consecutive
advance this year.  The central bank sold $1.7 billion of foreign-exchange swap
contracts on Aug. 2 to support the currency in the 21st day of
auctions since May 31. The real’s three-month historical
volatility climbed to 13.7 percent today, the highest among
major Latin American currencies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  