-- Breast Cancer Risk May Rise With Blood Pressure Medicines
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-08-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/breast-cancer-risk-may-be-increased-by-blood-pressure-drugs.html
Using a type of blood pressure drug
for more than a decade may raise  breast-cancer  risk, a study
found, the first potential link between long-term use of the
popular medicines and the most common malignancy among women.  Women who took blood pressure drugs called calcium-channel
blockers, like  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Norvasc, for 10 years or more had a
2.5 times higher risk of developing breast cancer than those who
never took the medicine or who used other blood pressure
treatments, according to research published in  JAMA Internal
Medicine.   The study released yesterday is the first to find that
long-term use of calcium-channel blockers is associated with a
higher risk of breast cancer, the authors said. More research is
needed to replicate the findings and to better understand why
the class of medicines may increase the risk of the disease,
said  Christopher Li , the lead study author.  “While this is an intriguing finding, much more work still
needs to be done,” Li, head of the Translational Research
Program at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in
 Seattle , said in an e-mail. “While we appreciate that these
results may cause concern for women currently using these
medications, we do not think that they should change current
clinical practice because they require confirmation and because
of the importance of managing hypertension effectively.”  Popular Therapies  Blood pressure drugs  are the most commonly prescribed
medicines in the U.S., the authors said. More than 678 million
blood pressure prescriptions were filled in 2010, about 98
million of which were for calcium-channel blockers. Norvasc,
which is available as a generic in the U.S., generated about
$1.35 billion in 2012 sales for New York-based Pfizer mostly on
sales outside the U.S.  Calcium-channel blockers lower  blood pressure  by relaxing
blood vessels and preventing calcium from entering cells. Other
treatments for the condition include beta blockers, which make
the heart beat slower and with less force, dropping blood
pressure; diuretics, which drain the body of excess fluid that
may increase pressure; and angiotensin-converting enzyme, or
ACE, inhibitors that prevent the body from producing
angiotensin, which can narrow blood vessels.  The study included 1,960 women with breast cancer and 891
women without the disease. They were interviewed to determine
which blood pressure treatments they used and for how long.  Study Results  The data show the current use of calcium-channel blockers
for 10 years or more increased breast cancer risk by about 2.5
times. Other blood pressure treatments used long term didn’t
have similar risks, the authors wrote.  Li said it’s unclear why calcium-channel blockers may raise
a woman’s chance of developing breast cancer. He said the
findings only apply to older women. Also, too few women stopped
using the drugs so researchers were unable to evaluate breast
cancer risk in those who were no longer using the medications.  “These findings raise a hypothesis,” said  Patricia
Coogan , a research professor of epidemiology at the Slone
Epidemiology Center at  Boston University , who wrote an
accompanying editorial. “It does not prove that using calcium-channel blockers for 10 or more years will raise your risk of
breast cancer. More observational studies need to look in more
populations. If this finding is replicated, then there needs to
be a serious discussion about long-term use of calcium-channel
blockers.”  More than 232,000 women will be diagnosed with  breast
cancer  in the U.S. this year and more than 39,600 will die of
the disease, according to the  National Cancer Institute , which
funded the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  