-- Breivik Stigma Fading Helps Norway Progress Party He Favored
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-08-06T13:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/breivik-stigma-fading-helps-norway-progress-party-he-preferred.html
Norway ’s anti-immigration Progress
Party is preparing to enter government for the first time as its
leader says voters have stopped associating the group with the
country’s worst postwar massacre.  Anders Behring Breivik, who in July 2011 killed 77 people
in two attacks that targeted members of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg’s Labor Party, was once a member of the Progress
Party, which is led by 44-year-old Siv Jensen.  The group, which has repeatedly condemned the Breivik
murders, struggled to articulate its policies in the months that
followed for fear of a backlash, Jensen said. Though support has
slipped since 2011, polls show Jensen will enter government
after Sept. 9 elections in a coalition led by Erna Solberg’s
Conservative Party. Jensen still targets curbs on the number of
immigrants entering Scandinavia’s richest nation.  “At first we all covered the subject more delicately than
we normally have, but now I think the debate climate is back to
normal,” Jensen said yesterday in an interview in Oslo. “All
political parties decided very early that we were not to be
affected by the actions of that crazy guy when it came to
fighting for democracy.”  The Progress Party, the second-biggest in Parliament, is
now backed by 14 percent of voters, according to a TNS Gallup
poll based on phone interviews on July 29 to Aug. 2. The
Conservatives lead with support from 31.6 percent of voters,
with the Labor Party at 30.1 percent.  Nordic Trend  Before Breivik’s attacks, the Progress Party had seen its
popularity soar as Norwegians -- like their Nordic neighbors in
Sweden, Denmark and  Finland  -- welcomed policies claiming to
defend local jobs from foreigners.  In 2009 parliamentary elections Jensen campaigned on
pledges to fight what she called the “sneak Islamization” of
Norway. Now, she says her party wants to work against “certain
aspects of illegal immigration.”  In a 1,500-page manifesto Breivik posted online before the
killings he said the attacks were part of a crusade against
“cultural Marxism” and the “Islamization” of Europe. He was
sentenced last year to 21 years in prison, though his term can
be extended if a court decides he still poses a threat to
society.  Breivik is now studying mathematics to gain the required
high-school course work so he can pursue a political science
degree at Oslo University, news agency NTB reported today,
citing lawyer Vibeke Hein Baera. Any studies would have to be
done from prison.  Support for the Progress Party plunged in a municipal vote
less than two months after Breivik’s attacks, delivering the
party its worst defeat in 16 years.  Not Good  “Our election result was not all that good but we’ve
recovered well and have normalized the situation,” Jensen said.
Continuing the debate is “a much better way of fighting bad
ideas than not debating at all.”  The Progress Party started as an anti-tax movement in 1973
and has largely been shunned by Norway’s other parliamentary
groups because of its anti-immigration platform.  The Conservatives have pledged to lower taxes and boost
spending on roads, railways, education and research and
development. Stoltenberg, who heads a three-party Labor-led
coalition, has argued Norway needs to extend its welfare model,
which is financed by the oil fund.  Jensen started full-time in politics in 1994 and joined
parliament in 1997. She also worked as a sales consultant at
Radio 1 after getting a degree from the Norwegian School of
Economics and Business Administration in 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  