-- Bulger Is ‘Vicious, Violent,’ Prosecutor Tells Jury
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-08-05T21:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/bulger-is-vicious-violent-prosecutor-tells-jury.html
James “Whitey” Bulger was condemned
as vicious and calculating by a U.S. prosecutor during closing
arguments at the trial of the 83-year-old accused mobster and
murderer suspected of terrorizing South  Boston .  “The evidence at this trial has convincingly proved the
defendant is one of the most vicious, violent, calculating
criminals to ever walk the streets of Boston,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Fred Wyshak told a federal jury today.  Bulger wore a long-sleeved T-shirt, jeans and high-topped
white sneakers to the packed hearing. He scribbled furiously on
his legal pad during the government’s closing arguments. He
didn’t look at the prosecutor.  Bulger, accused of participating in 19 murders and running
a racketeering scheme, was captured in 2011 in  Santa Monica ,
 California , after being at large for 16 years. The jury must
decide whether Bulger spends the rest of his life behind bars
for crimes allegedly committed while he ran a gang in South
Boston from the 1970s to the early 1990s.  During the two-month trial, jurors heard from prosecution
witnesses including John Martorano, a gunman who admitted
killing 20 people, sometimes on Bulger’s orders, and Kevin
Weeks, a former ally who testified against the defendant.  Stephen Flemmi, another ex-friend, told the jury that
Bulger conspired with him to kill people who discovered too much
about their illegal activities.  Defense Attorney  Bulger’s defense attorney, Hank Brennan, used his closing
arguments today to target top echelon informants dating back to
mob hitman Joseph Barboza in the 1960s. He urged jurors to
reject the case against Bulger because of the lenient plea
agreements the government struck with his former crime partners
in return for their testimony.  “If these men are so dangerous, why haven’t they taken
these men off the streets?” Brennan said. “You have to ask
yourself what’s going on.”  Another lawyer for Bulger, J.W. Carney, told jurors that
out of the 19 murders, Bulger specifically didn’t commit three
of them, including the two female victims, Deborah Hussey and
Deb Davis. Flemmi killed Hussey, his stepdaughter, after she
revealed to her mother that he had been sexually abusing her for
years, Carney said. He said Flemmi also killed Davis, his
girlfriend, because she was leaving him for another man.  Death Penalty  Flemmi avoided a federal death penalty by pleading guilty
in 2004 to 10 murders and is serving a life sentence.  Carney also rejected the U.S.’s claim that Bulger murdered
Roger Wheeler, a gambling executive for a Florida company called
World Jai Alai. Carney said Bulger was satisfied making millions
of dollars from cocaine and marijuana sales in South Boston and
had no reason to start operations far from home.  Bulger “didn’t need to go beyond South Boston,” Carney
said. “It would be insanity for him to try to decamp to Miami
and try to take over World Jai Alai.”  Bulger sat quietly and listened while his lawyer spoke to
the jury.  Bulger last week declined to testify in his defense,
depriving some victims’ family members of the details they
sought about FBI corruption that let crimes go unprosecuted for
decades. The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  said Bulger was a
longtime informant who corrupted three of its agents.  ‘Choked Off’  At a hearing before U.S. District Judge Denise Casper on
Aug. 2, Bulger said his decision not to take the stand was made
“involuntarily” because he had been “choked off from having
an opportunity to give an adequate defense.” Carney said at the
start of the trial that his client would testify.  “As far as I’m concerned I didn’t get a fair trial and
this is a sham,” Bulger said. “Do what you want with me.”  Bulger’s crimes raised questions about the extent to which
federal agents wrongfully protected Bulger from local and state
authorities for years before he disappeared, letting him kill
and steal in exchange for tips about a bigger FBI target that he
was associated with, the Patriarca Family organized crime group.  The relationship came to an end when Bulger vanished in
1994, tipped off about impending charges. The warning came from
his longtime FBI handler, Special Agent John Connolly, who’s now
serving 50 years in prison for crimes linked to Bulger,
including murder.  John Morris, Connolly’s supervisor at the agency, was also
implicated. He got immunity from prosecution by admitting he
accepted cash from Bulger in exchange for protecting him. Morris
testified against Connolly and was a witness against Bulger.  Special Prosecutor  In 1999, then-Attorney General Janet Reno appointed Special
Prosecutor John Durham to investigate wrongdoing involving the
FBI’s ties with Bulger. While the probe led to Connolly’s
conviction, the  Justice Department  never made the report public.  Brennan told jurors they could use their verdict to punish
the government for the FBI’s dealings with criminals.  “At what point as citizens do we say, ‘You know what?
There has to be accountability,’” Brennan said.  Wyshak, the prosecutor, said the defense team was wrong to
make the trial about government corruption.  “They’re asking you to send some message about how the big
bad government needs to learn a lesson from this case,” Wyshak
said to the jury. “That would be a violation of your oath.”  The case is U.S. v. Weeks, 99-cr-10371, U.S. District
Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  New York 
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in federal court in Boston
at   jlawrence62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 