-- Caleb Crain’s ‘Necessary Errors’ Explores 1990s Prague
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-08-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/caleb-crain-s-necessary-errors-explores-1990s-prague.html
Jacob Putnam is a sensitive young
Harvard graduate burdened with literary aspirations. Having quit
an advertising job in pursuit of artistic freedom, he’s traveled
to Prague and become the archetypal innocent abroad.  The title of  Caleb Crain ’s debut novel, “ Necessary
Errors ,” tells you plenty about what’s in store for Jacob as he
and his expatriate friends navigate the economics of ambition,
love and idealism against the backdrop of a country on the cusp
of wrenching fiscal and social change.  The book opens in October 1990. The Velvet Revolution is
less than a year old and socialism remains deeply ingrained.
“The Wild East,” Jacob discovers, is every bit as foreign as
Western Europe was to the travelers  Henry James  and  Edith
Wharton  conjured up.  There is still no real private market for apartments, so he
takes rooms in a family home, paying rent to be a guest. In a
pub, he chats with men who cannot grasp that from now on, white-collar workers will automatically earn more than those who work
with their hands.  And then there is breakfast: pastries a lot like croissants
except that they’re straight, their curve having been deemed too
frivolous under the old system.  While the Czechs try to fathom the mechanics of capitalism,
Jacob must come to terms with his own personal liberation:
Shortly before leaving America, he came out as gay and had his
heart broken by his first boyfriend.  Expat Friends  The friends he makes in Prague hail from the U.K., Ireland
and  Germany , as well as from back home. There’s glamorous
Melinda and her serious boyfriend Rafe; sharp-tongued Annie and
mournful Kaspar; beautiful Thom and childlike Carl.  He meets them through the language school where he teaches
English; together they get drunk on Czech beer and have angst-ridden conversations about philosophy and art. So far as love
goes, none of them seems particularly successful. As Jacob says,
“It sometimes felt as if, in compensation, they were all
falling in love with one another, as a group.”  Crain has a sharp ear for dialogue, meticulously capturing
verbal tics like the “Ehm”s that characterize Annie’s brogue.
When Jacob speaks Czech -- ordering at a bar, for instance --
Crain makes sure that the English translation reflects the
strangeness of life lived partly in a foreign tongue: “I’m
giving myself a soda water.”  For all their talk about life’s big questions, simply being
in  Prague  frees these 20-somethings from getting on with their
lives. As Jacob notes, being abroad becomes an end in itself:
“Being here is what you’re doing, when you’re here.”  Dumplings, Cabbage  Not that there is anything romantic about Crain’s Prague, a
city where every meal seems to feature dumplings and steamed
cabbage and whose ceaselessly gray sky is just another of its
“weapons.”  The locals aren’t exactly charming, either. At the gay club
listed in Jacob’s tourist guide, the bouncer sometimes lets him
in, sometimes doesn’t. It’s a mystery until one of the regulars
explains: “He is an old Communist. He only understands money.”  As the novel unfolds, money becomes a versatile metaphor.
Though Jacob feels as if he’s learning in Prague, he worries
that his newfound wisdom applies only to life there. “It was as
if he held a large sum in a currency that could only be
exchanged at a steep discount,” Crain writes.  More literally, Jacob learns that a mysterious older man
he’s begun a relationship with has already embraced capitalism
in ways that shock him.  Having been too precious about his writing to work an
office job in the U.S., Jacob finds that in Prague, his writing
time is consumed by everyday chores, like doing laundry, which
become Kafkaesque challenges.  In keeping with the ambiguity that defines this smart,
pensive novel, the reader is left wondering just which was the
real error: going to Prague in the first place or returning to
life among the strivers he fled.  “Necessary Errors” is published by Penguin (472 pages,
$16). To buy this book in North America, click  here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Greg Evans 
on TV.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 