-- California Sales Taxes Trail U.S. Recovery, Analyst Says
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-08-06T07:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/california-sales-taxes-trail-u-s-recovery-analyst-says.html
California  state and local sales tax
revenue is growing slower than the economy because prices for
services, which are untaxed, have risen four times as fast as
costs for goods since 1980, a  report  shows.  Services such as health care, leisure, recreation and
entertainment in the most-populous state don’t generate sales
taxes, the nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s Office in
 Sacramento  said yesterday.  “Absent further increases in the sales-tax rate or
expansion of its base, sales tax revenue for the state and local
governments are likely to grow slower than the economy for at
least the near future,”  Chas Alamo , a tax specialist in
Legislative Analyst Mac Taylor’s office, said in the report.  Governor Jerry Brown is counting on an almost 14 percent
 increase  this year from sales and use levies, the state’s
second-largest revenue source after income taxes. Brown
persuaded voters in November to raise the state rate to 7.5
percent, the highest in the U.S. The same measure also boosted
taxes on annual income starting at $250,000.  Consumer spending on taxable items peaked at 53 cents per
dollar in 1979, and has dropped to 33 cents per dollar since
then, the analyst said.  A group financed by billionaire investor  Nicolas Berggruen 
shelved plans in 2012 for a ballot initiative that would extend
California’s sales tax to services while reducing income taxes.
The Think Long Committee for California plans to reintroduce the
idea, adviser Nathan Gardels said yesterday by e-mail.  The state received $268.8 million from sales and use taxes
in June, 15 percent more than June 2012 numbers and exceeded
Brown’s budget projections by 3.5 percent,  according  to state
Controller John Chiang.  Highest Rates  The highest sales taxes in the state are paid in La Mirada,
Pico Rivera and South Gate, all cities in Los Angeles County,
where local levies bring the total rate to 10 percent,  according 
to the state Board of Equalization.  Brown’s budget assumes $23 billion of California’s $97.1
billion, or about 24 percent, in general-fund revenue will come
from sales and use levies. Income taxes account for almost 63
percent.  Sales taxes make up a smaller share of revenue for local
governments. Sales and use taxes generated $3.4 billion, or 19
percent, of total general revenue for California cities in the
year ended June 30, 2011,  according  to figures from Chiang’s
office. The numbers exclude San Francisco, which is both a city
and a county.  Sales and use taxes  accounted  for about 1 percent of
revenue to county governments excluding San Francisco, Chiang’s
office said.  Five states have no statewide sales tax:  Alaska ,  Delaware ,
 Montana , New Hampshire, and  Oregon ,  according  to the nonprofit
Tax Foundation. Alaska and Montana allow local governments to
levy sales taxes, the foundation said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story: William
Glasgall at 
   wglasgall@bloomberg.net  