-- Carney Guidance Risks Being Drowned Out by Recovery: U.K. Credit
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-08-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/carney-guidance-risks-being-drowned-out-by-recovery-u-k-credit.html
Mark Carney’s plan to guide investors
on the future cost of borrowing risks being drowned out by
Britain’s strengthening economic recovery.  The Bank of England governor will present a review tomorrow
on implementing forward guidance in the U.K. as improving
 economic data  boosts the future cost of money. He has already
taken steps to curb higher borrowing costs, saying last month
that the “implied rise in the expected future path of bank rate
was not warranted” by economic developments.  Carney faces a struggle to keep investors’ expectations in
check after indexes of services, manufacturing and construction
exceeded economists’ forecasts last month, pushing two-year gilt
yields to the highest in two weeks relative to equivalent German
notes. Deutsche Bank AG said the data are now at a level where
the BOE has previously tightened policy.  “He’s going to have to shout very loudly,” Philip Rush,
an economist at Nomura International Plc in  London , said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “But the idea we’re getting
strong data now really just confirms why you need to have some
form of forward guidance at the moment.”  In addition to the industry surveys, a revival in the
housing market and improving  consumer confidence  are providing
signs of a U.K. recovery after  economic growth  accelerated to
0.6 percent in the second quarter.  Forward Rates  The forward rates for Sterling Overnight Index Average
swaps rose as the outlook brightened. The rate at which banks
expect to charge each other by the BOE’s August 2014 policy
meeting climbed to 0.403 percent yesterday, the most since July
3. That’s up from 0.352 percent a week ago.  The BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee kept its target for
 bond purchases  at 375 billion pounds ($575 billion) last week
and left its key rate at 0.5 percent, a record low.  Carney will publish the quarterly Inflation Report at a
press conference in London at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow, his first
since becoming BOE governor. Alongside the new forecasts, he
will release a review of forward guidance requested by the
government and a view of the trade-off between growth and
 inflation .  “The problem is that the economy is improving,” said
Steve Barrow, head of Group-of-10 research at Standard Bank Plc
in London. “For all the bank might end up doing is fighting the
market, not guiding it.”  Draghi Steer  Comments by European Central Bank President Mario Draghi
last week suggest Carney may need to be more specific in his
guidance. Draghi echoed the BOE governor when he said on Aug. 1
that expectations of a rate increase in the euro area are
“unwarranted.” He also reiterated last month’s guidance that
all key ECB rates will stay at current levels or lower for an
“extended period of time,” without specifying that period.  A measure of expected overnight interbank borrowing costs
rose after Draghi’s remarks. The rate banks expect to charge
each other by the ECB’s July 2014 policy meeting climbed as high
as 0.25 percent, the most since July 26. That’s up from 0.19
percent immediately before Draghi spoke.  Austin Hughes, chief economist at KBC Bank Ireland in
Dublin, said the ECB’s guidance is a “work in progress.”  “The entire range of implications of this course of action
may not have been completely thought through,” Hughes said.  Carney introduced guidance in April 2009 while governor of
the Bank of  Canada  -- pledging to keep Canada’s key rate at a
record low until mid-2010.  Fed Alignment  He will align BOE policy closer to the Federal Reserve’s by
linking guidance on interest rates to economic developments,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of 43 economists published
last month. In the poll, 23 said the governor will opt to link a
pledge on loose policy to economic data, while 18 said he will
use a period of time.  The Fed said on June 19 that keeping its key rate between
zero and 0.25 percent “will be appropriate at least as long”
as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and the forecast for
inflation in one to two years doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent. The
same day, Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said officials may slow its
monthly bond buying later this year.  The comments sparked a jump in bond yields, prompting the
MPC to say on July 4 that the increase represented an
“unwelcome tightening in monetary conditions” that could
scupper the recovery.  Loose Policy  The pound strengthened against the dollar after a report
yesterday showed  services  expanded at the fastest pace in six
years in July. It advanced 0.3 percent to $1.5338 as of 6 p.m.
London time. Ten-year gilt yields rose, widening the premium
over similar-maturity German debt to 78.8 basis points, the most
in more than three years. The two-year yield reached 0.38
percent, the highest since July 8. The  spread  over German notes
widened to 21.5 basis points, the most since July 22.  While Britain’s economy is strengthening, the recovery may
not yet be assured. Kevin Daly, chief U.K. economist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., says that reinforces the need for continued
loose policy.  U.K. gross domestic product in the second quarter was still
3.3 percent below its peak in early 2008. The National Institute
of Economic and Social Research said last week that the outlook
is for a “gradual gain” in economic momentum even as it raised
its forecasts.  “They’ll want to maintain an accommodative stance for some
time,” Goldman’s Daly said in an interview in London. “Growth
is getting better, but it needs to be better for a long time
given how long it was weak. You don’t want the recovery to be
choked off by a premature tightening of financial conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  