-- China Overseas Land Says 1H Profit Rises as Sales Expand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-05T06:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/china-overseas-land-says-first-half-profit-rises-as-sales-expand.html
     Aug. 5 (Bloomberg) --  China  Overseas Land & Investment
Ltd., the country’s biggest developer by market value listed in
Hong Kong, said first-half profit climbed 32 percent as it sold
more properties.  Net income rose to HK$11 billion ($1.4 billion), or HK$1.34
a share, from HK$8.38 billion, or HK$1.02 a share, a year
earlier, the company said in a stock-exchange filing today.
Sales increased 27 percent to HK$32.2 billion, it said.  The developer benefited from focusing on so-called first-tier cities, including Beijing and Shanghai, where demand
remained strong even as the government stepped up a three-year
campaign to cool  home prices  in March. Home prices in Guangzhou
and Beijing rose at least 20 percent in July from last year,
according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , China’s biggest real estate
website.  “The numbers are largely in line,” said Jinsong Du, a
Hong Kong-based property analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG.
“The company will have no problem exceeding its sales target
this year,” he said, adding that he doesn’t anticipate any
major “negative” policy changes in the second half as the
government grapples with an economic slowdown.  The Hong Kong-traded stock  rose 0.4 percent to HK$23.50 as
of 2:54 p.m. local time, extending this year’s gain to 1.7
percent.  Major Cities  The company’s contracted sales of properties reached a
record high of HK$80 billion in the first half as the company
“intensified its sales effort upon seeing improvement in the
 market sentiment ,” it said in the statement. Hong Kong and
Chinese developers usually start selling properties while
they’re still under construction and book profit upon
completion.  “First-home buying is still strong in major cities and
China Overseas’ strategy of focusing on those cities fits in
very well,” Alan Jin, Hong Kong-based property analyst at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., who rated the stock a ‘buy’, said
before the announcement.  Profit excluding revaluations rose 26.7 percent from a year
ago to HK$8.06 billion. The developer raised its 2013 sales
target to HK$120 billion, which Du from Credit Suisse said is
“relatively conservative.”  Net gearing fell to 14.9 percent at the end of June, from
20.5 percent at the end of 2012, and is “relatively low at the
moment,” Chairman Kong Qingping said in the statement. Kong
will resign tomorrow as executive director and chairman,
replaced by Hao Jian Min, the company said in a separate
statement.  Strategy ‘Correct’  “The group is hence in a position to secure more funding
at suitable times,” Kong said without elaborating. “Excellent
performance of the group under such a tough market environment
confirms that the strategy of developing high quality
residential projects in the core areas of major mainland cities
is correct.”  China Overseas, which  builds  homes and offices in China,
 Hong Kong  and Macau, said operating profit rose 7.8 percent to
HK$13.2 billion. Operating profit from mainland China accounted
for 76.5 percent of the total.  The developer acquired 11 plots in China in the first half
and plans to expand its  land bank  in the second half, it said
without giving a specific target.  The company is studying the feasibility for controlling
shareholder China State Construction Engineering Corp. to inject
its property development business into China Overseas, according
to a separate statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange. No
definitive proposal or agreement has been made, it said.  The company said it will pay an interim dividend of 18 Hong
Kong cents.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net ;
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  