-- China’s Stocks Rise for Fifth Day on Services Report
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-08-05T07:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/chinese-dairy-producers-advance-as-property-developers-retreat.html
China’s (SHCOMP)  stocks rose for a fifth day,
capping their longest stretch of gains in two months, after a
services gauge accelerated for the first time since March.
Consumer, health-care and technology companies led the advance.  Shanghai Friendship Group Inc. and Chongqing Department
Store paced a rally for retailers, jumping more than 4 percent.
Dairy producer Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial Group Co. climbed
3.1 percent after the government halted imports of milk powder
from Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. Drugmaker Yunnan Baiyao
Group Co. advanced to the highest level in a week.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 1 percent to 2,050.48 at
the close.  China’s economy  is showing signs of stabilizing after
a measure of the non-manufacturing sector rose to 54.1 in July
from 53.9 in June, while a services index from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics was unchanged at 51.3. Readings above 50
indicate expansion.  “There’s less concern about economic growth after” the
services data, said Mao Sheng, an analyst for Huaxi Securities
Co. in Chengdu. “Local milk makers are benefiting from the
Fonterra import halt as earnings should get a boost.”  The CSI 300 Index advanced 1.4 percent to 2,278.33. The
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rose 0.1 percent.  A measure of commercial enterprises in the Shanghai
Composite including retailers jumped 1.7 percent for the biggest
gain among five industry groups. Shanghai Friendship rose 4.8
percent to 6.96  yuan . Chongqing Department surged 5.6 percent to
18.07 yuan.  The non-manufacturing PMI was released by the National
Bureau of Statistics and  China  Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing. The index hasn’t dropped below 50 since a new data
series started in March 2011. A gauge of business expectations
in the survey rose to 63.9, the highest since December.  ‘Good Start’  The non-manufacturing report indicates a “relatively good
start to second-half economic activities,” Cai Jin, a vice
chairman at the logistics federation, said in the Aug. 3 data
release. “The foundation and conditions to ensure stable
economic growth are there even though we continue to face
challenges.”  HSBC and Markit’s services gauge indicates “China’s
service sector has stabilized at a relatively low level of
growth,”  Qu Hongbin , HSBC chief China economist in  Hong Kong ,
said in a statement.  A gauge tracking  consumer-staples  producers on the CSI 300
advanced 2 percent. Inner Mongolia Yili added 3.1 percent to
37.09 yuan. Zhejiang Beingmate Technology Industry &
Trade Co., a milk-powder manufacturer, added 0.9 percent to
33.37 yuan. Fonterra, the world’s largest dairy exporter, said
Aug. 3 that three batches of a whey protein made at a New
Zealand plant last year may contain bacteria that can cause a
rare illness called botulism.  Drugmakers  Kangmei Pharmaceutical Co. led gains for drugmakers,
surging 6.4 percent to 21.90 yuan. Yunnan Baiyao climbed 1.8
percent to 107.70 yuan. The technology stock measure added 3
percent, gaining the most among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups
and taking its advance this year to 38 percent. Aisino Co.
climbed 2.5 percent to 16.17 yuan. Sanan Optoelectronics Co.
jumped 4.5 percent after Taiwan’s Ministry of Economic Affairs
approved its acquisition of Formosa Epitaxy Inc.  The Shanghai Composite climbed 0.9 percent last week. It
has dropped 9.6 percent this year. The measure trades at 8.3
times 12-month projected profit,  data  compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Options traders are paying the least in six weeks to
protect against drops in the largest Chinese  exchange-traded
fund  in the U.S. on prospects the government will take steps to
sustain growth in  Asia ’s biggest economy.  The cost of six-month puts on the iShares China Large-Cap
ETF had a 3.4-point spread with calls Aug. 2, the smallest gap
since June 19, options data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  