-- China’s Debt Surge Pressures Xi-Li to Avert Lost Decade
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-06T08:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/china-s-debt-surge-pressures-xi-li-to-avert-lost-decade.html
A Chinese lending spree of the
magnitude that tipped Asian nations into crisis in the late
1990s and preceded  Japan ’s lost decades is putting pressure on
top leaders to map out a strategy to tackle the threat.  Half of the economists in a Bloomberg News survey say non-performing local-government and corporate debt will probably
have a “significant impact” on  China ’s credit and  economic
growth . The central government will deal with bad loans at local
governments in the next 18 months by expanding the municipal-bond market and letting localities refinance with direct bond
sales, respondents said.  Avoiding a fate akin to Japan’s growth collapse of the
1990s hinges on Chinese officials’ ability to reduce debt and
shift policy, JPMorgan Chase & Co. says. President  Xi Jinping 
and Premier  Li Keqiang , developing a reform strategy due at a
Communist Party meeting later this year, may get input from a
State Council-ordered audit of government borrowings and a World
Bank-assisted study on urbanization.  “The debt ratio is absolutely dangerous, there is no
question,” said Yao Wei, China economist at Societe Generale SA
in Hong Kong, ranked by Bloomberg as the most accurate
forecaster of the nation’s gross domestic product. “There is a
high risk that this debt issue will have significant downside
pressure on Chinese growth in the next few years.”  Local-government debt may have surged by as much as 50
percent since the end of 2010. Borrowings as of June 30 ranged
from 15 trillion  yuan  ($2.4 trillion) to 16 trillion yuan,
according to estimates of four analysts.  Audit Estimate  That compares with the National Audit Office’s 10.7
trillion yuan estimate for the end of 2010. The agency said July
28 that the cabinet ordered a new nationwide review of
government debt.  China today and Japan in the 1980s share a buildup in broad
measures of credit to almost double the economy’s size, JPMorgan
analysts said in a July 19 report. China’s credit-to-GDP ratio
rose to 187 percent in 2012 from 105 percent in 2000, compared
with Japan’s increase to 176 percent in 1990 from 127 percent in
1980, JPMorgan said.  Investor inquiries on the similarities between China now
and Japan then prompted the report, said Grace Ng, a JPMorgan
economist in  Hong Kong . “Normally and internationally speaking,
if a country’s debt ratio increases so rapidly, its probability
of financial crisis is higher,” Ng said.  Mitigating Forces  While risks may be reduced by forces such as that the
increase is in debt held mainly by domestic investors and the
national savings rate is more than 50 percent of GDP, “these
mitigating factors also existed in Japan in the late 1980s,”
JPMorgan said in its report.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. draws a comparison to the Asian
crisis of 1997-98, saying China’s debt-to-GDP ratio has
increased by 56 percentage points in the five years through 2012.
 Thailand  had an advance of 66 percentage points and  Malaysia ’s
was 40 percentage points in the five years before  Asia ’s turmoil,
Goldman Sachs said in a July 26 report.  Nomura Holdings Inc. said earlier this year that the “5-30” rule shows rising risks of a financial crisis in China.
That’s because leverage in Japan,  Europe  and the U.S. increased
by about 30 percent of GDP in the five years before crises,
compared with Nomura’s estimate of 34 percent in the five years
through 2012 for China.  IMF Report  China’s stock of credit is among the highest in the world
at its level of per capita GDP, the  International Monetary Fund 
said last month in its annual report on the nation’s economy.  Yet comparisons with Japan are “misplaced” because Japan
also had property and stock bubbles that burst with
“debilitating consequences,” said Murtaza Syed, IMF deputy
resident representative in Beijing.  “China is still at a relatively early stage of its
development, and so with the right policies and reforms it can
look forward to many years of still relatively strong growth,”
Syed said.  Investors will see China’s progress in tackling the issue
in July credit and  lending  data due by Aug. 15, with the median
analyst estimate for money-supply growth of 13.9 percent. That’s
down from 14 percent in June, when a government-engineered cash
squeeze helped curb shadow banking.  The  Asian Development Bank  may lower its 2013 and 2014
growth forecasts for China in October, Chief Economist Rhee Chang Yong said in an e-mail yesterday. The bank in a July 16
report gave a 2013 projection for 7.7 percent expansion.  Detroit Filing  Last month’s bankruptcy filing by the U.S. city of  Detroit 
“sounded alarms for many local Chinese governments,” said Hu Yifan, chief economist at Haitong International Securities Group
in Hong Kong.  The situation is “actually not so scary if you take the
size of state-owned assets into consideration,” Hu said. Yu Yongding, a former central bank adviser, estimated the assets’
value at 100 trillion yuan, almost double GDP.  Even so, policy makers “better not fall asleep” on crisis
risks, Yu said at a July 31 forum in Beijing. “I’m suspicious
of local governments’ willingness and abilities to repay their
debts,” Yu said.  The  World Bank  said in November it’s working with the State
Council’s Development Research Center on an urbanization study,
at Premier Li’s request, after co-publishing a report last year
proposing reforms so China can become a high-income society by
2030.  Growth Impact  Concern that financial risks will harm growth has weighed
on stocks this year, with the Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  down 15
percent from its 2013 high on Feb. 6. The gauge rose 0.5 percent
today.  The Bloomberg News survey, conducted from July 24 to July
31, found three of 12 respondents expect bad debt to have a
“significant impact” on  credit  and economic growth, with two
seeing a “very significant impact” and one expecting a full-blown financial crisis. Six analysts saw a small effect on
lending and the economy.  While 11 analysts unanimously said China would expand
municipal bond sales, five respondents said China may also sell
non-performing loans to bad-debt managers or create new managers.
Three said China would allow some local-government financing
vehicles to default on debt. Respondents could choose more than
one answer.  Ding Shuang, senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in Hong
Kong, said China may slow down debt expansion and then use
measures including developing capital markets, he said.  “I don’t think it’ll be resolved easily,” said Ding, who
previously worked at the IMF. “It’s a venture the Chinese
government has never had at this scale and this
sophistication.”  --Shen Hu, Ailing Tan, with assistance from Alan Wong in Hong
Kong. Editors: Scott Lanman, James Mayger  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Shen Hu in Beijing at 
 hshen33@bloomberg.net ;
Ailing Tan in Singapore at 
 atan193@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  