-- China’s CNPC Seen Tapping Exxon-Rosneft Assets: Real M&A
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-08-06T06:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/china-s-cnpc-seen-tapping-exxon-rosneft-assets-real-m-a.html
China National Petroleum Corp.
already spent more money this year on energy assets than any
other global producer. Oil and gas fields controlled by  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Russia ’s OAO Rosneft may be next on the list.  China’s largest oil producer, known as CNPC, has made more
than $9 billion of purchases this year -- and has considered
another $4 billion, according to people familiar with the matter
-- as part of a plan to double overseas output by 2015. Spending
will likely accelerate under Zhou Jiping, who was named chairman
in April and has more than a decade of experience in
international operations, CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets said.  CNPC is ramping up deals to make up for lost ground after
Sinopec Group and  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , two other Chinese state-owned
energy companies, outspent the producer by about $50 billion on
overseas transactions in the five years through 2012, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. CNPC’s success with mature fields
makes an Exxon asset in  Iraq  a target, Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. said, while a supply agreement with Rosneft may lead to
deals with the state-controlled Russian producer, according to
UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.  “CNPC’s skill set makes it a good fit for many developed
onshore oilfields in central Asia, the Middle East and South
America,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based oil and gas analyst
at Bernstein, said by phone. “CNPC’s state-owned background is
more of a bonus rather than a burden when it seeks acquisitions
in those regions.”  Oilfield Experience  At its Daqing field,  discovered  in the Heilongjiang
province of northeastern China in 1959, CNPC has gained “world
class” experience at extending the life of oilfields, Beveridge
said. The company also drills for oil in  Syria ,  Sudan , Iraq and
several central Asian countries.  CNPC plans to increase overseas production to 200 million
tons by 2015, about twice what it produced abroad last year.
Output from fields outside China may account for 60 percent of
production by the end of the decade, former Chairman Jiang Jiemin said in January. The proportion was 37 percent in 2012.  Jiang this year became head of China’s State-owned Assets
Supervision and Administration Commission. His replacement, 61-year-old Zhou, previously led CNPC’s overseas division.  “Zhou’s expertise in international business will help
CNPC’s international expansion,” Simon Powell, an analyst at
CLSA in Hong Kong, said in a phone interview.  Liu Weijiang , CNPC’s Beijing-based spokesman, said the
company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Supply Needs  To supply the world’s largest consumer of energy, Chinese
companies announced at least $108 billion of overseas purchases
in the five years through 2012, about one fifth of the total
spent by energy companies worldwide on cross-border
acquisitions, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While CNPC spent more than $16 billion, Sinopec Group --
officially known as China Petrochemical Corp. -- and Cnooc,
China’s second- and third-biggest oil and gas producers, spent
$41 billion and $26 billion respectively, the data show. The
Cnooc total includes purchases by parent China National Offshore
Oil Corp.  This year, CNPC has struck at least $9 billion of deals,
including a $4.2 billion purchase of a stake in  Mozambique ’s
Rovuma fields, the data show. The 2013 total also includes a
stake in Kazakhstan’s biggest oil field worth about $5 billion.  The Chinese producer is considering buying Petroleo
Brasileiro SA assets in Colombia and  Peru  with a value of about
$2 billion, people with knowledge of the matter said last month.
CNPC also held talks to buy Brazilian oil startup Barra Energia
Petroleo e Gas for about $2 billion, people said in May.  Crude Prices  Crude oil prices may help, said Wu Fei, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Bocom International. Brent dropped to an average of
about $107 a barrel this year, from $111.7 in 2012.  “CNPC may want to get some deals done quickly while Brent
stays relatively stable,” Wu said by phone. “China needs to
import the fuel no matter what crude prices may change to.”  CNPC’s experience in Iraq makes the company a candidate to
buy Exxon’s 60 percent stake in the West Qurna-1 field in
southeastern Iraq, said Laban Yu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Jefferies Group LLC. CNPC produces about 1.65 million barrels of
oil a day from Iraqi projects, the company said last October.  The Exxon asset is near the Rumaila field run by CNPC and
 BP Plc (BP/) , and may produce as much as 600,000 barrels of oil per
day by the end of 2013, Exxon has estimated. Iraq’s government
has asked Exxon to abandon projects in the semi-autonomous
Kurdish region in the north, or exit projects in the south.  Other Bidders?  “CNPC could take over the operation by moving its
personnel and equipment from the nearby Rumaila site and start
commercial production right away,” Bernstein’s Beveridge said.
Exxon’s stake would cost at least $3 billion, he said.  David Eglinton, an Exxon spokesman, declined in an e-mail
to comment when asked whether the Irving, Texas-based company
has held talks with CNPC over its West Qurna-1 stake or is
trying to sell it.  There may be other bidders. PT Pertamina,  Indonesia ’s
state-owned oil company, was in talks with Exxon to buy as much
as 20 percent of the West Qurna-1 field, the Indonesian
government said in March.  Natural gas projects owned by Moscow-based Rosneft, close
to a pipeline connecting Siberia and the Pacific, may yield
targets after CNPC and Rosneft signed a $270 billion oil-supply
agreement in June, according to Shi Yan, an analyst at UOB-Kay
Hian in  Shanghai . The 25-year deal will supply about 360 million
metric tons of crude to  China , Russian President Vladimir Putin
said on June 21.  Rare Opportunity  Officials at Rosneft didn’t immediately respond to requests
for comment about a potential deal with CNPC.  Any deal with Rosneft would be “in the range of billions
of dollars” given the size of the projects, Shi said.  “A majority ownership in the resources would allow CNPC to
control some of the best upstream natural gas assets,” Shi
said. “The opportunity to buy a quality asset at a reasonable
price is rare, after most in easy-to-reach areas have long been
controlled by established oil companies in the West.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  