-- China Needs 2 Years to End Interest Rate Regulation, Lian Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-05T05:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/china-needs-2-years-to-end-interest-rate-regulation-lian-says.html
China  may need at least two years t0
end government control of  interest rates  and full deregulation
may narrow banks’ net interest margins by one-third,  Bank of
Communications Co . predicts  As their next steps, policy makers are likely to remove
restrictions on the rate banks pay for  five-year deposits  and
allow lenders to issue certificates of deposit that offer higher
rates and can be sold on a secondary market, Lian Ping,
Shanghai-based chief economist at the bank known as Bocom, said
at a briefing today. Five-year term accounts are about 3 percent
of total deposits, Lian said.  The People’s Bank of China on July 20 scrapped the floor on
the lending rates banks can charge customers, in the biggest
step to move the nation’s financial system toward rates set by
the market. The central bank left the cap on deposit rates
unchanged on concern that removing it without further
preparations could lead to financial turmoil.  The government must also make more changes before setting
up a deposit insurance system, Lian said, adding that the move
may lead savings to flow from smaller to larger lenders.  Full interest rate deregulation may reduce the industry’s
net interest margin by 100 basis points to about 2 percent, Lian
estimated. Together with other factors such as rising defaults
and competition from  non-bank financing , China’s banking
industry will face “extraordinarily severe” challenges in
years to come, he said.  The Communist Party’s Politburo Standing Committee, China’s
top decision-making body, called on authorities to be on guard
against risks from the financial sector in April as the nation
seeks to stabilize growth, which is on pace this year for the
slowest expansion in 23 years. China’s National Audit Office
announced July 28 that it was starting a nationwide review of
local government debt.  Local governments’ financing vehicles may have at least 12
trillion  yuan  ($2 trillion) of debt, with the peak of repayments
coming in the fourth quarter, Lian said today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  