-- China’s Overnight Money Rate Drops a Third Day on PBOC Signals
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-05T09:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/china-s-overnight-money-rate-drops-a-third-day-on-pboc-signals.html
China ’s overnight interbank lending
rate dropped for a third day after the central bank said it will
use a variety of tools to manage cash in the financial system,
including adjusting lenders’ reserve requirements.  The People’s Bank of China will roll over maturing three-year bills to lock up longer-term liquidity, according to a
quarterly  report  posted on its website Aug. 2. The PBOC gauged
demand for sales of 91-day securities planned for this week,
said a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions. It also asked banks to submit orders for 28-day
 repurchase agreements  and both seven- and 14-day reverse repo
contracts, the trader said.  “The central bank wants to lead money-market rates lower
to reasonable levels and not to maintain tight liquidity, or
raise money-market rates whatsoever,” Chen Jianheng and Liu Mingxi, analysts with China International Capital Corp., wrote
in a research report today.  The overnight  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, declined 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 3.11 percent as of 5:03 p.m. in Shanghai,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  The one-year interest-rate swap contract, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate,
climbed two basis points to 3.92 percent in Shanghai, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It fell 14 basis points last
week.  PBOC, Data  The PBOC rolled over 73.5 billion  yuan  ($12 billion) of
three-year bills at 3.5 percent on July 29 and 110.3 billion
yuan at 3.37 percent on July 15, Guotai Junan Securities and
China International Capital Corp. said in reports.  China’s non-manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index showed
the first acceleration since March, government data released
Aug. 3 showed. The PMI rose to 54.1 in July from 53.9 in June,
according to the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing. Fifty is the dividing
line between expansion and contraction.  The yield on the 3.38 percent government bond due May 2023
was unchanged at 3.73 percent, according to the Interbank
Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in  Shanghai  at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  