-- Citi Haunts Abu Dhabi as Fund Caught in Brazil Meltdown
-- B y   D a l e   C r o f t s   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-08-06T13:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/citigroup-haunts-abu-dhabi-as-mubadala-caught-in-brazil-meltdown.html
Mubadala Development Co., the Abu
Dhabi sovereign wealth fund, is fighting to avoid losses on its
$2 billion investment in  Eike Batista ’s companies as the former
billionaire seeks to save his commodity empire from collapse.  The fund is owed $1.5 billion after converting a preferred
equity investment in Batista’s EBX Group Co. into debt, three
people with knowledge of the matter said last month. That amount
is secured by Batista assets, one of the people said, asking not
to be named as details are private. EBX also last month agreed
to “redeem” a portion of Mubadala’s original investment.  The fund joins creditors such as billionaire  Andre Esteves 
and Brazilian development bank BNDES seeking to recover funds
after missed production targets at Batista’s oil company  OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  punctured investor confidence in
his companies. The Mubadala restructuring comes after another
fund, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, lost an appeal this year
related to losses on a $7.5 billion investment in  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “Mubadala may need to wait longer to get its money,” Amol Shitole, a credit analyst with SJS Markets Ltd. in Bangalore,
 India , said in a telephone interview. “The EBX group companies
will need to go through a debt restructuring process.”  The  Abu Dhabi Investment Authority , known as ADIA, agreed
to buy the equivalent of 4.9 percent of Citigroup in 2007,
before share issuances during the financial crisis eroded the
value of its holdings. It is also among investors in the
Norwegian gas network contesting government plans to cut
transport tariffs by 90 percent.  ‘Preferred Equity’  The original deal with Batista gave Mubadala “certain
rights and protections,” the companies said at the time,
without giving more details. EBX last month said it reached an
agreement with Mubadala to protect its remaining investment. The
wealth fund may be interested in other Batista assets after the
slump, it said in a separate response to questions on July 25.  “The agreement we now have with EBX improves security on
the remainder of our investment and EBX today remains current,”
Brian Lott, a Mubadala spokesman, said in an e-mailed response
to questions from Bloomberg. “It’s always been our expectation
that EBX will fulfill its obligations to Mubadala.”  The March 2012 deal valued Batista’s empire at $35.5
billion, including publicly traded and closely held units, and
he was rated at the time as the world’s eighth richest man. The
entrepreneur, who boasted of overtaking  Carlos Slim  as the
world’s wealthiest individual, is now worth an estimated $100
million, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  In an opinion piece for  Brazil ’s Valor Economico newspaper
last month, Batista vowed to pay ‘every cent’ of his debts.  Credit Line  “The Batista investment had strong political and strategic
dimensions,” Geoffrey Wood, a professor of international
business at Warwick Business School in the U.K., said by
telephone. “There still might be some value in the assets in
Brazil and now Abu Dhabi has got a strategic holding there.”  Esteves’s  Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11)  gave EBX a $1 billion liquidity
line in March, a person with direct knowledge of the accord said
at the time. The bank and EBX announced a so-called strategic
co-operation agreement that month that included financial
advisory, lines of credit and future long-term capital
investments in projects, with Esteves leading a strategic and
financial management committee, they said in a statement.  The credit line was later canceled, a person familiar with
the matter said last month. A BTG spokeswoman, who asked not to
be identified under corporate policy, declined to comment. EBX
didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Landmark Deal’  A group of investors hired Marcio Lobo, a corporate lawyer
at law firm Jorge Lobo, to investigate Batista, OGX and three of
its former directors, the Financial Times reported on Aug. 4,
citing Lobo. The group includes about 60 of OGX’s minority
investors, who say they have collectively lost 70 million reais
($30.4 million).  Batista championed last year’s agreement with Mubadala as a
“landmark” deal in which the fund would invest $2 billion in
return for a 5.63 percent preferred equity interest in his main
offshore holding companies, without giving more details.  The entrepreneur also pledged his personal wealth to back
2.3 billion reais in loans from development bank BNDES last
year, according to a bank statement last month.  ADIA invested in Citigroup in November 2007, just after the
bank had fired chief executive officer Charles “Chuck” O.
Prince. A year later, the bank was bailed out at the cost of $45
billion.  Citigroup fell 1 percent to $52.37 as of 9:40 a.m. in New
York and has gained about 32 percent this year.  Fund Complaint  The fund bought so-called equity units in Citigroup, a type
of convertible bond that paid a fixed annual rate of 11 percent
and which converted into ordinary shares in a staggered way
between March 2010 and September 2011. Before the conversion the
wealth fund received about $2.5 billion in coupon payments.  ADIA, which doesn’t give the value of its assets, filed a
complaint against Citigroup in 2009, saying it made “fraudulent
misrepresentations” about the deal. Earlier this year, a
Manhattan federal judge rejected a bid by ADIA to overturn an
arbitration panel’s ruling favoring Citigroup in the dispute.  Erik Portanger, a spokesman at ADIA in Abu Dhabi, declined
to comment on the lawsuit or the level of losses. A spokesman
for Citigroup who asked not to be identified declined to
comment. An EBX spokeswoman also declined to comment.  ADIA generated annualized returns of 7.6 percent over the
past two decades and 8.2 percent for the past three, according
to its annual report. The fund also invests in small cap
equities, fixed income, infrastructure, hedge funds and private
equity, developed and emerging market equities.  Other Investments  The fund, which doesn’t invest in the U.A.E. or typically
in the Gulf Arab region, had assets valued at $328 billion at
the end of 2008, according to economists at New York-based
Council on Foreign Relations, the latest available data.  To be sure, the emirate has also gained from some overseas
investments. Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed al-Nahyan, who helped
shore up Barclays Plc’s balance sheet during the financial
crisis and sold his shares as of June 20, could have made as
much as 685 million pounds ($1.05 billion) based on June 20’s
closing price of 288.1 pence a shares and a warrant price of
197.8 pence.  Mubadala’s GlobalFoundries Inc. chip manufacturer is
investing $4.4 billion this year to expand production.  Mubadala, which has about 203 billion dirhams in assets,
will “continue to seek out new regional and international
opportunities to help realize Abu Dhabi’s ambition of a
diversified, globally integrated and innovation driven
economy,” the company said in April.  Abu Dhabi’s non-oil industries grew 7.7 percent in 2012 to
325 billion dirhams ($89 billion), the most since 2007, and make
up about 48 percent of gross domestic product at constant
prices, preliminary government data on June 19 show.  The emirate’s 678 billion-dirham economy accounts for more
than half the U.A.E.’s 1.03 trillion-dirham GDP and more than
double Dubai’s. Abu Dhabi expanded 5.6 percent in 2012 compared
with 4.4 percent in Dubai, according to government data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dale Crofts in Dubai at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  