-- Codelco Gets Two-Step S&P Upgrade as Chile State Reinforces Ties
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-08-05T19:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/codelco-gets-two-step-s-p-upgrade-as-chile-state-reinforces-ties.html
Chilean state-owned copper company
Codelco had its bonds upgraded by two rungs at Standard & Poor’s
to the same AA- level as the sovereign, the highest rating of
any company bond in Latin America.  The new rating is the fourth-highest possible and means
Codelco now shares a rating with  Japan . S&P’s move comes days
after Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut its rating
because of lower copper prices and an increased need for debt
funding. Codelco, the world’s biggest copper miner, has $6.75
billion in dollar bonds outstanding and already had the highest
S&P rating of any South American industrial company.  Chile’s government, the highest-rated in the region, has
promised to maintain Codelco’s investment grade, even as it
pushes the company to seek external financing. The government’s
approval this month of $1 billion in funding, compared with a
total of $4.2 billion sought by the company, means Codelco will
either have to scale back a $27 billion investment plan or step
up bond sales.  “The standalone profile hasn’t changed but the link with
the government is stronger,” said Diego Ocampo, the Buenos
Aires-based lead analyst for Codelco at S&P. “For the last five
or six years the government has been getting increasingly
involved in the company’s strategy and financing plans.”  Codelco, based in Santiago, is engaged in an unprecedented
investment plan to revamp its aging mines, some of which are a
century old, and increase annual production to 2.2 million
metric tons from about 1.8 million tons. Without the
investments, output will slump to between 700,000 tons and
800,000 tons a year, union leader and Codelco director Raimundo Espinoza told Congress July 17.  Codelco’s press department didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment made by telephone and e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  