-- Cogemat Postpones Euro-Denominated Bond Sale as Issuance Slows
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-08-05T10:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/cogemat-postpones-euro-denominated-bond-sale-as-issuance-slows.html
Gruppo Cogemat SpA postponed its
debut sale of bonds as company borrowing in  Europe  slowed last
week to the least this year. Corporate bond risk fell to the
lowest in 10 weeks.  The Italian gaming machines operator planned to issue 165
million euros ($219 million) of five-year bonds, according to a
person with knowledge of the plan, who asked not to be
identified because the details are private. Companies sold 5.3
billion euros of bonds last week, the least this year and below
the weekly average of 13.4 billion euros for 2013, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit markets in Europe are recovering from a two-month
selloff after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signalled
the central bank may reduce stimulus measures if the  U.S.
economy  shows sustained improvement. The Markit iTraxx Europe
Index of credit-default swaps on 125 companies with investment-grade ratings dropped 0.8 basis point to 95.2 basis points, the
lowest since May 28.  “The market has slowed due to the summer lull but it does
not necessarily mean investor appetite has diminished,” said
Harpreet Parhar, a credit strategist at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in
 London . “We’ve entered August in reasonably good shape.”  Cogemat’s notes, which were expected to be rated B by
 Standard & Poor’s , five levels below investment grade, were to
be used to refinance debt, pay a dividend and for general
corporate purposes, the person said. Cogemat SpA and Cogetech
SpA were guaranteeing the bonds.  A spokeswoman for Milan-based Cogetech declined to comment
on the bond sale.  Yields Decline  The average yield investors demand to hold  high-yield  euro
bonds fell to 4.74 percent, one basis point from the lowest
since June 4, while the rate on  investment-grade  debt dropped to
1.95 percent, approaching the lowest since June 19, Bloomberg
index data show.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of default swaps on 50
high-yield companies dropped 2.2 basis points to 395.6 today,
the lowest in two weeks. A decrease signals improvement in
perceptions of  credit quality .  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  