-- Commodities Revenue of Top 10 Banks Fell 25% in First Half
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-08-05T12:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/commodities-revenue-of-top-10-banks-fell-25-in-first-half-1-.html
Commodities revenue at the 10 largest
investment banks fell 25 percent in the first half, putting
those units on pace for the worst annual performance in more
than five years, according to analytics company Coalition Ltd.  Revenue fell to about $2.7 billion in the first six months
from $3.6 billion in the same period of 2012, Coalition said
today in an e-mail. Last year’s total of $6 billion was down 24
percent from 2011 and was less than half that of 2008, when  oil
prices  climbed to a record.  “This was mainly due to lower client activity and lack of
volatility,” Coalition said. “On a relative basis, investor
products and power and gas had the largest decline.”  Regulatory scrutiny and lower revenue have banks
considering whether to exit parts of commodities trading. U.S.
lawmakers have questioned whether banks should be allowed to own
physical commodities businesses and the  Federal Reserve  said
it’s reviewing a decision it made a decade ago that allowed
commercial banks to enter the industry.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said last month that it’s considering
exiting the business of owning and trading physical commodities
ranging from metals to oil. That marks a reversal of its push
into the practice of owning raw materials with its 2010 purchase
of parts of RBS Sempra, a joint venture between  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Sempra Energy. (SRE)   Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said in
an interview last month that he’s open to different structures
in his bank’s commodities unit. The firm held talks last year
with Qatar’s sovereign-wealth fund about selling a stake in the
business.  Morgan Stanley said last week that its holdings of physical
commodities fell to $4.93 billion at June 30, the lowest level
in more than three years. The bank has cut jobs and shut
businesses including agricultural products after commodities
trading posted a return on equity of less than 5 percent in
2012, the lowest among the company’s fixed-income trading units.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which has faced criticism of its
aluminum warehousing unit Metro International Trade Services
LLC, said it is staying in its physical commodities businesses.
The New York-based firm said last week that it isn’t involved in
the daily management of Metro and owns the company as an
investment, which means it must sell the stake within the next
seven years.  Facing Lawsuit  Goldman Sachs (GS)  and the London Metal Exchange face a lawsuit
claiming they are restraining aluminum supplies and driving up
the metal’s price in violation of federal antitrust law. The
suit was filed Aug. 1 in federal court in  Detroit  with aluminum
products company Superior Extrusion seeking class-action status.  Long wait times at Metro’s aluminum warehouses are caused
by a large number of investors storing metal as they anticipate
prices will rise and requests to move that aluminum to non-LME
warehouses, where rates are lower, Goldman Sachs said last week.
The bank said Metro doesn’t own the metal it holds and only
moves it on the instruction of customers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  