-- Compugen Surges on $540 Million Bayer Cancer-Drug Accord
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-08-05T14:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/compugen-surges-on-540-million-bayer-cancer-drug-accord.html
Compugen Ltd. (CGEN)  surged to the highest
in more than nine years after the Israeli biotechnology company
agreed to cooperate with  Bayer AG (BAYN)  on cancer immunotherapy that
may yield more than $540 million in payments.  Compugen soared 41 percent to 28.45 shekels at the close in
 Tel Aviv , the highest price since May 2004, valuing the
developer of computational genomic products at 1.08 billion
shekels ($304 million). Volume was about 28 times the three-month daily average.  Bayer agreed to pay $10 million upfront in cash to Compugen
in excess of $500 million for meeting targets in researching,
developing and commercializing cancer therapies, the Tel Aviv-based company said today in a statement. Compugen is also
eligible for another $30 million in achieving goals associated
with early stage tests, it said.  Drug companies are increasingly looking at immunotherapy,
which is designed to combat cancer by stimulating the body’s own
immune cells to fight tumors, for their next products.
Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer is also seeking other technology
to combat cancer. It signed an agreement in June to use  Seattle
Genetics Inc. (SGEN) ’s antibody-drug conjugate process to develop
treatments to target tumors without affecting healthy cells.  The Compugen system is based on researchers’ discovery of
two immune checkpoint regulators, which potentially play a role
in suppressing the immune system and allowing a tumor to grow,
the Israeli company said today. Compugen is developing
therapeutic antibodies to block those targets and switch on the
patient’s antitumor immune response.  Compugen, founded by members of an Israeli army
intelligence unit that designed software to break codes, uses
computer programs to discover proteins that may have the ability
to treat diseases. It then finds partners that pay to develop
drugs. The company has  never generated a profit  since it started
trading on the  Nasdaq  in 2000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  