-- Dallas Fed’s Fisher Says U.S. Investors Can’t Rely on Fed ‘Put’
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2013-08-05T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/dallas-fed-s-fisher-says-u-s-investors-can-t-rely-on-fed-put-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President Richard Fisher, one of the most vocal critics of
quantitative easing, said the central bank is closer to slowing
$85 billion in monthly bond buying and warned investors not to
rely on that stimulus.  “Financial markets may have become too accustomed to what
some have depicted as a Fed ‘put,’” or the idea that the
central bank will loosen credit after a market decline, Fisher
said in a speech in  Portland ,  Oregon . “Some have come to expect
the Fed to keep the  markets  levitating indefinitely. This
distorts the pricing of financial assets” and can lead to
“serious misallocation of capital.”  Treasury yields have jumped in the past three months and
bond prices have fallen, as some Fed officials have said the
central bank could slow its asset purchases. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in a press conference after the Federal Open
Market Committee’s June 18-19 meeting that the Fed may trim its
bond-buying program later this year and halt it around mid-2014
if economic performance tracks the central bank’s forecast.  Fisher, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, said
in his prepared remarks that a decision to slow purchases is
“closer to execution mode” with the unemployment rate having
fallen last month to 7.4 percent.  The Dallas Fed president said that at last week’s FOMC
meeting he suggested “we should gird our loins to make our
first move this fall.”  The Fed needs to “carefully remove” its quantitative
easing and “gingerly unwind it so as not to prompt market
havoc,” Fisher told the National Association of State
Retirement Administrators today.  Fisher, a former money manager and deputy U.S. trade
representative, has been president of the Dallas Fed since 2005.
His district consists of  Texas , northern Louisiana and southern
New Mexico.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Effinger in Portland at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  