-- Don’t Let Zimbabwe’s Mugabe Get Away With Election Theft
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-05T14:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/don-t-let-zimbabwe-s-mugabe-get-away-with-election-theft.html
Describing the Zimbabwean general
election last week, Olusegun Obasanjo, the head of the African
Union observer mission, used the word “free” readily, but the
term “fair‘‘  caught in his throat . Was the voting -- based on a
roll that included 1.7 million voters who are missing or dead,
and featuring 35 percent more ballots than people casting them -
- fair? Obasanjo shrugged, turned his hands palm up, cocked his
head and uttered, ‘‘fairly.’’  The AU and the Southern African Development Community
nevertheless endorsed the election, allowing Robert Mugabe, 89,
the world’s longest-serving ruler, to declare victory in the
 presidential race , with 61 percent of the vote. His party, which
had held a  minority  of parliamentary seats, claims to have won a
two-thirds majority, enough to change the constitution on its
own.  The AU and SADC teams, the only external groups Mugabe
allowed to monitor the poll, were plainly relieved by the
absence of  violence : In the 2008 election, 200 opposition
supporters were killed. Nevertheless, they should have made more
of their  obvious (and documented) reservations  about vote-rigging.  It’s not too late. Presidential candidate Morgan Tsvangirai
of the Movement for Democratic Change has vowed to submit a
dossier of fraud allegations to the monitors. If the evidence
stands up, they should pressure the  Zimbabwe Electoral
Commission  to order a new election. The commission is widely
regarded as under the sway of Mugabe’s party, the Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriot Front. However, the resignation
of a commission member over the conduct of the election suggests
Mugabe may have pushed it too far.  Most of the complaints stem from the dodginess of the voter
roll. The commission released the list only two days before the
election, leaving no time for voters, parties and candidates to
inspect and verify it. The independent Zimbabwe Research and
Advocacy Unit reported that 1.7 million of the people listed
were either dead or had left the country.  Eligible voters, on the other hand, were left out in
constituencies likely to support Tsvangirai and his party. The
Research and Advocacy Unit calculated that almost 2 million
people younger than 30 were excluded. The  Zimbabwe  Election
Support Network, which fielded about 10 times as many observers
as the AU and SADC, estimated that 1 million people in urban
areas were kept off the roll. According to the network, 99.97
percent of rural voters were registered, versus 67.94 percent of
urban voters; 82 percent of urban polling stations turned voters
away while only 38 percent of rural stations did so. A
suspiciously large proportion of those who did vote -- as high
as 26 percent in some polling stations, according to the AU --
required ‘‘assistance.’’  Excluded from sending observers, the U.S. and its allies
had no choice but to rely on monitoring by others. To their
credit, they have chosen to look askance at the regional groups’
rubber stamp.  The U.S., U.K. and European Union, which have all imposed
sanctions on Zimbabwe for earlier assaults on human rights and
the rule of law, expressed concern about the election
 irregularities . They should go further and follow the lead of
 Australia , which called on Zimbabwe to conduct a new, legitimate
election and said it would maintain sanctions until it does.
President  Barack Obama  had said Zimbabwe’s election could create
an opening for improved relations; he should say that chance has
been squandered. The EU, which had been easing sanctions to
encourage political reform, should think again.  With this vote, Zimbabwe could have ended the isolation
that its authoritarian order and corrupt elections have provoked
for the past decade. Instead, Mugabe calculated he could
continue stealing, as long as he did so bloodlessly. He
shouldn’t be allowed to get away with it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 