-- DSV Looks Into Next Krone Bond Issue After June Debut, CEO Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-05T13:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/dsv-looks-into-next-krone-bond-issue-after-june-debut-ceo-says.html
DSV A/S (DSV) , the Nordic region’s biggest
trucking company, is looking into the possibility of selling
more bonds after it issued its first krone note in June to take
advantage of cheaper funding, its chief executive officer said.  “It’s an interesting market for us and a market we’re
tracking,” CEO Jens Bjoern Andersen said in an interview.
“Going to the  bond market  was a good experience. We’re not
ruling out that we’re going back.”  DSV, founded by 10 truckers in 1976, has expanded through
acquisitions to become  Denmark ’s fifth-biggest listed company by
revenue. Its  debt  peaked at 9.54 billion kroner ($1.7 billion)
at the end of 2008, when it bought Brussels-based ABX Logistics
Worldwide SA. The Broendby, Denmark-based company last week said
its net debt declined to 6.53 billion kroner at the end of June,
2.8 percent down from a year earlier.  DSV on June 17 issued a 3.5 percent 1 billion-krone bond
due 2020 to pay off more expensive bank loans. The bond yielded
3.7 percent today, down from a June 24 peak of 4 percent,
according to Nordea Bank AB prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The bond has extended the average maturity of DSV’s debt to
about 4.4 years, which is a “comfortable” level, Andersen
said.  “If we were to go back, it wouldn’t be to extend the
maturity of our debt, but rather to save interest costs,” he
said.  Takeover Targets  DSV, which this year has bought companies in Columbia,
Denmark and  Norway , is still pursuing acquisitions and targets
firms with annual revenue of as much as 4 billion kroner,
Andersen said. The company won’t need to tap the bond or the
stock markets to finance takeovers, he said.  “We would be able to finance such acquisitions via  cash
flow  from our revenue,” Andersen said. “It makes sense for us
to pursue acquisitions as the prices on some of our targets are
better. The asking prices are not as optimistic as they used to
be, so the multiples we would have to pay are now fairer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  