-- The Real Choice at the Fed Isn’t About Summers or Yellen
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-05T22:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/the-real-choice-at-the-fed-isn-t-about-summers-or-yellen.html
Choosing  Ben S. Bernanke ’s successor
as chairman of the  Federal Reserve  is one of President  Barack Obama ’s most important remaining jobs. Nobody questions what’s
at stake. Even so, the recent quarrel about the presumed front-runners,  Lawrence Summers  and  Janet Yellen , verges on the
ridiculous.  This is partly because both are exceptionally impressive
candidates. But it’s frustrating for another reason, too.
There’s more to setting the post-Bernanke Fed on the right
course than choosing the best person for the top job. The fuss
over Summers and Yellen is helping people to ignore this.  Obama is wise to take his time in deciding who ought to
succeed Bernanke. Others should do the same, and here’s what
they should be looking for.  Deep expertise in monetary economics goes without saying --
combined with the right ideas about what monetary policy can
rightly be asked to do. The new boss should agree with Bernanke
that the Fed’s dual mandate for  price stability  and full
employment gives equal weight to both. (If you doubt the wisdom,
take a look at  Europe .)  The next leader will be more of a financial regulator than
any previous chairman. This too calls for technical expertise
plus sound ideology. Anybody who thinks financial markets can
mostly be left to supervise themselves -- not an uncommon view
before the crash, and not extinct even now -- is instantly
disqualified.  Third, a harder thing to gauge, is ability to deal with the
unforeseen. Bernanke never imagined the challenge he has faced.
He has done well, considering. Sadly, the same might be asked of
his successor. This isn’t one skill, by the way; it’s a bundle.
Intellectual breadth, openness to unfamiliar ideas, steadiness
in a crisis, a willingness to see that new facts may call for
new thinking are all part of it.  Finally, individual excellence even of the highest order
isn’t enough -- because the Fed is no longer a one-man (or one-woman) operation. The job demands leadership skills of two
distinct kinds. In its areas of competence, the Fed should speak
with conviction and authority both to Congress and to the
country as a whole: Looking outward, in other words, the Fed
itself has to lead, and its views must carry weight. But the Fed
also needs to be led -- and that’s a harder job than it used to
be.  This is the big thing that the quarrel over Summers and
Yellen is missing: The central bank is more than its chairman.
The other policy makers are more assertive than before, and
financial markets pay much closer attention to their views.
Aside from the top job, as many as four additional slots could
open up on the Fed’s Board of Governors early next year. Getting
those appointments right matters, too.  Elizabeth Duke  has  announced  that she’ll resign at the end
of this month.  Sarah Bloom Raskin  is set to  become the next
deputy Treasury secretary , creating another vacancy. Jerome Powell’s term  ends  in January, though he could be reappointed
for another term. Yellen might leave if she’s passed over as
Bernanke’s replacement. This gives Obama a rare opportunity to
reshape the Fed. It’s a chance to widen the range of skills and
experience its policy makers bring to bear.  And that’s needed. In the mid-2000s, economists and central
bankers were too busy celebrating the “Great Moderation” to
notice the dangerous rise in private borrowing that led to the
crash. There were honorable exceptions, but the dissenting
voices weren’t heard where it mattered. The Fed failed to think
through the unintended consequences of the low  interest rates  it
engineered in the early 2000s.  As a result, it didn’t use the tools at its disposal. It
could have limited loan-to-value ratios in the mortgage market,
for example, or told banks to fund a higher proportion of their
assets with equity rather than debt. These and other measures
could have made the financial system more resilient and let some
air out of the house-price bubble.  The wisdom of hindsight is cheap, but it’s fair to ask
whether these failures weren’t due to groupthink. Today, the
dangers are better understood -- which is why the Dodd-Frank Act
and other initiatives have broadened the Fed’s regulatory
powers. Yet few of the people who’ve been suggested for the
other top jobs at the Fed have hands-on experience in evaluating
financial risks, much less managing or reducing them. The pool
of candidates for the new board positions should be widened to
include academics, financial engineers, market professionals and
others with what central bankers might see as untraditional
expertise in finance and systemic risk.  If the choice for the top spot does come down to Summers or
Yellen, Obama can’t really go wrong. He and everybody else ought
to worry a bit less about that and a lot more about the wider
range of talents that the new Fed will need in all its governors
but still lacks.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 