-- EADS Urged by Investor to Sell Dassault Aviation Holding
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-05T09:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/eads-urged-by-investor-to-sell-dassault-aviation-holding.html
European Aeronautics, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD)  should sell its holding in  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) , maker of
the Rafale combat jet, because the stake valued at about 4
billion euros ($5.3 billion) is a poor investment, the TCI fund
said.  EADS’s 46 percent non-voting stake in Dassault Aviation may
be valued at 5 billion euros in a sale, The Children’s
Investment Fund Management LLP wrote in an Aug. 2 letter to  Tom Enders , chief executive officer of the Toulouse-based company.  EADS has embarked on a major restructuring as it adopts
Airbus as the name for the group and consolidates most of its
defense and space operations amid shrinking military spending in
Europe. Enders said last week that he wants to focus in future
on “businesses that we fully control.”  “Defense budgets are likely to remain under pressure,”
Ben Walker, partner at the London-based The Children’s
Investment Fund Management also known as TCI, wrote in the
letter, calling the Dassault Aviation stake “a poor use of EADS
capital.”  French Rights  TCI, which pushed for the breakup of Amsterdam-based ABN
Amro Holding NV, said the stake sale should take place via a
public placement rather than to the French government or
Dassault Group to maximize the return EADS will receive. The
fund said it holds more than 1 percent in EADS stock.  A Dec. 5 overhaul of the EADS shareholder pact grants the
French government the right of first refusal for some or all of
the holding. EADS acquired the Dassault Aviation stake at its
formation in 2000 that combined European aerospace activities to
more effectively compete with U.S. rivals including  Boeing Co. (BA)   EADS declined as much as 23 cents, or 0.5 percent, to 44.83
euros in Paris, and traded at 44.92 euros as of 11:12 a.m.
Dassault Aviation, which is thinly traded, dropped 0.3 percent
to 920 euros.  TCI, which said EADS management is doing well and has the
fund’s “full support,” wrote that proceeds from the sale of
the Dassault stake should be used for a share repurchase or
special dividend. The move could be a test for Enders, who has
said he is trying to make EADS a “normal company” run outside
government control, according to the fund’s letter.  Rafale vs Typhoon  The French government announced Aug. 2 it plans to buy only
26 Rafale jets in the next five-year budget plan starting 2014,
as it banks on exports to sustain production of the combat
aircraft at 11 planes per year.  Dassault, founded by Marcel Dassault in 1936, has managed
to keep the company in family hands, with 50.1 percent of the
stock controlled by Serge Dassault, the 87-year-old chairman and
son of Marcel.  EADS is a partner with  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) 
in the Eurofighter joint venture that makes the Typhoon combat
jet, which competes for export orders with Rafale. The Dassault
plane beat out the Typhoon last year for a potential order of
more than 126 jets to  India .  “TCI is a shareholder and we recognize that they have
communicated their views,” EADS said in e-mailed comments
today. “We are currently focused on executing the next stage of
our strategy as communicated last week. Central to our strategy
is efficient capital allocation and creation of  shareholder
value . We will keep shareholders fully appraised of our plans
and progress.”  The fund, founded by Christopher Cooper-Hohn in 2003, has
previously pushed for changes in management and strategy at
companies including  CSX Corp. (CSX)  and  Electric Power Development Co. (9513) 
of  Japan . In October, TCI said  Safran SA (SAF) , France’s largest maker
of commercial and military aircraft engines and equipment,
should review its acquisitions policy and eschew deals outside
of civil aerospace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  