-- Hedge Fund’s Cancun Dream Explained in Junkiest Junk Deal
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-08-05T15:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/hedge-fund-cancun-dream-with-hyatt-seen-in-junkiest-junk.html
At a time when bond buyers are
shunning junk,  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  and Farallon Capital
Management LLC are trying to drum up financing for 13 all-inclusive beach resorts from  Cabo San Lucas  to Cancun with  Latin
America ’s riskiest debt in three years.  Playa Resorts Holding BV, a joint venture between Hyatt and
the $19.2 billion San Francisco-based hedge fund, is planning to
raise $300 million of seven-year bonds that Moody’s Investors
Service rates Caa1, or seven levels below investment grade. If
completed, the sale would be the first of such a low-rated
corporate dollar bond in the region since now-defunct Brazilian
meatpacker Independencia SA issued debt in 2010.  While Hyatt Chief Executive Officer Mark Hoplamazian
promised “significant renovations” to the beachfront hotels
that can charge upwards of $6,000 a night for their most
expensive rooms, Moody’s Investors Service says Playa faces
“intense competition” that could impair its ability to become
more creditworthy. With similar-rated emerging-market corporate
debt  yielding  an average 17.6 percent and junk issuers shut out
of the market since May, Playa may have to offer a 15 percent
yield to lure buyers, according to Western Asset Management Co.  “I would be surprised if they were successful at placing
the issue,” Robert Abad, who helps oversee $51 billion at
Western Asset in  Pasadena ,  California , said in an e-mail.
“There are very few single-B credits that can come to market
during boom cycles let along during periods of market duress. So
at the outset, it begs the question why a CCC rated issuer would
try to come to the market under current conditions.”  Hyatt Stake  At 15 percent, the yield would be the highest for a new
issue since Independencia’s $165 million offering three years
ago.  Standard & Poor’s  rates Playa Resorts’ notes B, two levels
higher than Moody’s rating.  Playa Resorts didn’t reply to telephone calls and e-mails
seeking comment. Katrina Allen, an external spokeswoman for
Farallon, declined to comment on the bond sale.  “Playa has been operating in the all-inclusive segment for
many years and has a strong management team,” Hyatt spokeswoman
Katie Rackoff said in an e-mail. “Hyatt is delighted to be
entering a new, rapidly growing all-inclusive segment with a
transaction that will allow us to provide Hyatt’s authentic
hospitality to a new guest base.”  Dominican Republic  Based in Amsterdam, Playa Resorts is a wholly owned
subsidiary of Playa Hotels & Resorts BV, a hotel owner and
operator that through a leveraged finance transaction is adding
hotels in  Mexico  and the Caribbean. After the transaction
closes, Playa will own 13 hotels and 5,805 rooms located in
Mexico, the  Dominican Republic  and  Jamaica .  Hyatt, controlled by the Pritzker family, will have a 42
percent stake in the company, with Farallon owning 37 percent
and other shareholders with 22 percent, according to offering
documents obtained by Bloomberg.  “Now is a good time to expand our resort presence given
limited new supply and demographic evolution that should
translate into higher levels of resort demand in the years
ahead,” Hoplamazian said on a  conference call  with investors
July 31.  Playa Resorts hired Bank of America Corp. and Deutsche Bank
AG to sell the securities, which are callable after three years,
said a person familiar with the transaction who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  Bank of America spokeswoman Kerry McHugh and Deutsche Bank
spokeswoman Mayura Hooper declined to comment on the bond sale.  Economic Cycles  “The ratings reflect the company’s small operating scale
relative to global industry peers and its low geographic and
segment diversification, which makes it vulnerable to economic
cycles,” Moody’s said in a July 24 report. “The company’s high
leverage, operation in a highly cyclical industry with intense
competition, and no track record in the proposed business
configuration could affect Playa’s ability to achieve its growth
plan and improve its margins and credit metrics.”  The company’s adjusted debt to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, is about six
times, according to Moody’s.  Playa Resorts is also raising $350 million through a
secured  term loan  and $325 million from stake sales to Hyatt to
finance the acquisitions and renovations.  “The ratings are a reflection of the high risk implied in
this deal,” Rafael Elias, a director of emerging-markets
trading at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in  New York , said in a note to
clients. “So the risks involved are way too high for me to
consider at almost any price. I can tell you that if I were to
tell granny to look at this deal and she did, she would chase me
with her walker and would throw her false teeth at me in anger.
So I won’t even mention it to her.”  Junk Sales  No junk-rated Latin American company has sold bonds since
department store operator Grupo Famsa SAB sold $250 million of
seven-year bonds to yield 7.375 percent in May. That company is
rated B+ by  Fitch Ratings , four levels below investment grade,
and B by Standard & Poor’s.  Hyatt is the latest company to try to capitalize on
Mexico’s tourism industry. Starwood Hotels, owner of the St.
Regis, Sheraton and Westin brands, plans to boost its Mexico
portfolio by 30 percent with the opening of four hotels in the
next three years, the company said in a statement July 19.  Eduardo Cortes, who helps manage $1.4 billion in debt at
GIA Partners LLC, said investors in Playa Resorts will benefit
from Mexico’s growing travel industry.  “I like Mexico and I like the sector,” Cortes said in a
telephone interview from New York. Mexico “will slowly begin to
attract international tourism and domestic travel.”  Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican  government
bonds  instead of Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 197 basis points at 11:34 a.m. in New York,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. index data.  Mexico’s five-year credit default swaps, contracts
protecting holders of the nation’s debt from non-payment,
increased one basis point to 123 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The peso slipped 0.2 percent to 12.6884
per  U.S. dollar .  S&P said its B rating reflects its assessment of Playa
Resorts’ financial risk as “highly leveraged,” according to a
July 24 report.  Emerging-market corporate bonds rated B yield 9.19 percent,
according to Credit Suisse.  “The ratings optics, bond structure, corporate metrics
don’t offer investors any comfort even at an aggressive yield,”
 Western Asset ’s Abad said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  