-- Egypt Diplomats Try to Broker Peace Amid Protests
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-08-06T14:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/egypt-says-islamist-sit-ins-must-end-soon-as-diplomats-seek-deal.html
Egypt  denounced “foreign pressure”
as U.S. and European diplomats seek to broker an end to the
deadly political crisis triggered by the military’s ouster of
President Mohamed Mursi.  Supporters of Mursi, the Islamist president toppled on July
3, have refused to end street protests demanding his
reinstatement, even as authorities threaten to disperse them. At
least 130 Mursi supporters were killed by security forces in
Cairo last month, and there have been clashes throughout the
country.  “Foreign pressure has exceeded international norms and
Egypt is capable of protecting the revolution and the state,”
Ahmed El-Meslemani, media adviser to interim President Adly
Mansour, said in an e-mailed statement.  U.S. Deputy Secretary of State  William Burns  and European
Union special envoy Bernardino Leon, along with Gulf Arab
officials, are in Cairo for a diplomatic push that reflects
growing international concern over the political deadlock.  The army-backed interim government has repeatedly warned
that time is running out for the Islamist protesters to end
their sit-ins, saying they are undermining efforts to restore
stability and rebuild the economy.  Mansour said on Aug. 4 that the protests can’t be allowed
to go on for much longer. “If it’s possible to disperse it
peacefully, we will do so,” he said. “If not, then the state
can’t watch this happen with its hands tied.”  The National Coalition for Legitimacy, an Islamist group
made up of the Muslim Brotherhood and other backers of Mursi,
said any measures to ease the crisis should begin with
reinstating the deposed president and revoking the suspension of
the constitution.  Political Detainees  The group also called in an e-mailed statement today for
the release of all political detainees, and an urgent
investigation into “massacres” of peaceful demonstrators. Some
Islamist leaders were arrested on charges of inciting violence
following Mursi’s ouster.  Vice President  Mohamed ElBaradei , the Nobel laureate and
onetime opposition leader, urged the Muslim Brotherhood to work
toward a peaceful solution. The Brotherhood shouldn’t count on
manipulating the security forces into forcibly dispersing the
sit-ins “so that a big massacre takes place, and so that you
strengthen your position in negotiations,” ElBaradei said in an
interview published in the independent al-Shorouk newspaper.
“The trick will not work.”  ‘Calm Tensions’  Burns “continued his discussions with a wide range of
Egyptians” in the past few days and will stay on for further
talks, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday. He said
the talks, which included meetings with jailed leaders of the
Brotherhood, focused on how to “calm tensions, avoid further
violence and facilitate an inclusive democratic process.”  U.S. Republican Senators  John McCain  of  Arizona  and  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  are also in Cairo, where they met
Mansour and army chief Abdelfatah al-Seesi, who led Mursi’s
overthrow.  The political turmoil since Mursi’s fall threatens to
extend an economic slump that his one-year administration failed
to reverse. Gross domestic product has been growing at the
 slowest pace  in two decades.  IMF ‘Essential’  Stocks and bonds rebounded after the army takeover, which
followed mass protests calling for Mursi’s departure, as the new
administration pledged to make the economy its priority. The
benchmark equity index is up 13 percent since then. It extended
gains today, adding 0.2. The yield on Eurobonds maturing in 2020
dropped 24 basis points to 8.41 percent at 3:30 p.m. in Cairo,
more than 2 percentage points below its July 3 peak.  A loan agreement with the  International Monetary Fund  will
be an “essential” part of efforts to revive growth, Planning
Minister Ashraf El-Arabi said in a phone interview yesterday. He
said the timing of a resumption of talks on a $4.8 billion loan,
which have been repeatedly disrupted since 2011, is still under
discussion.  The government said a day earlier it was told by Burns that
the U.S., the IMF’s largest shareholder, supports the resumption
of talks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 