-- Egypt Sees IMF Accord Crucial to Economic Rebound, Minister Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-08-05T15:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/egypt-sees-imf-accord-crucial-to-economic-rebound-minister-says.html
Egypt ’s interim government considers
a loan agreement with the  International Monetary Fund  an
“essential” part of efforts to revive economic growth,
Planning Minister Ashraf El-Arabi said.  The timing of a resumption of talks on a $4.8 billion loan
is still under discussion, El-Arabi said in a telephone
interview today. The government is assessing Egypt’s financing
needs based on the latest economic data, he said.  El-Arabi’s remarks come a day after Egypt’s government said
it was told by visiting Deputy Secretary of State  William Burns 
that the U.S., the IMF’s largest shareholder, supports the
resumption of talks. Egypt’s negotiations with the IMF have been
repeatedly disrupted since 2011, and have been on hold since the
army deposed President Mohamed Mursi on July 3 following
nationwide protests against his one-year rule.  “As an economic group within the government, there is an
agreement that reaching an IMF agreement is part of the
solution, an essential part,” El-Arabi said. “There is no
decision on when to start the talks. What’s more important is to
start fixing the structural problems in the economy.”  The interim government led by Prime Minister Hazem El Beblawi has said its priority will be to revive the economy,
stuck in the worst slowdown in two decades. The political unrest
that deterred investors and tourists has intensified since
Mursi’s overthrow, with dozens of people, mostly supporters of
the Islamist leader, killed in clashes with security forces.  Aid Pledges  Gross domestic product may have expanded about 2 percent in
the fiscal year that ended in June, El-Arabi said, basing his
estimate on data covering the first 11 months of that period.
The  budget deficit  may have widened to more than 13 percent of
economic output, he said. The median estimate of 11 analysts on
Bloomberg is for a shortfall at 12 percent of GDP.  Egypt has received at least $5 billion in aid from the
 United Arab Emirates  and  Saudi Arabia  since Mursi’s ouster, as
part of a $12 billion pledge from the two countries as well as
Kuwait. The government says it will avoid resorting to austerity
measures as it seeks to revive growth. The central bank
unexpectedly cut its benchmark  interest rate  by 50 basis points,
or 0.5 of a percentage point, last week, the first reduction
since 2009.  “They’ll save money where they can, but after years of
heavy economic losses and with the political environment still
so fraught, I don’t see there being an appetite for austerity,”
said  Simon Williams , chief  Middle East  and North Africa
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Dubai. The government’s focus
“has to be stabilization and restoring confidence,” he said.  El Beblawi discussed development projects with a visiting
delegation from the U.A.E., including low-income housing and a
tunnel under the  Suez Canal , according to a cabinet statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  