-- Telecom Italia’s Debt Near Junk After CEO Rejects Stock Sale
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-08-06T08:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/telecom-italia-s-debt-near-junk-status-as-ceo-rejects-stock-sale.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , the company
created from a merger of  Italy ’s disparate phone operators two
decades ago, risks a downgrade to junk-bond status after
rejecting calls for a stock sale and failing to win  capital  from
overseas investors.  The cost of insuring Telecom Italia’s debt using credit-default swaps rose for a third day, taking the increase since
the company’s Aug. 2 earnings report to 60 basis points to an
11-month high of 402 basis points at 9:15 a.m. in  London , data
compiled by Bloomberg showed. The swaps imply a B2 rating, five
steps below investment grade, according to Moody’s Analytics.  After Fitch Ratings’ one-step cut yesterday, all three
major credit companies rank the debt at one step above junk. A
cut to non-investment grade would be the first since ratings
started last decade on Telecom Italia’s debt -- which at 28.8
billion euros ($38 billion) on an adjusted net basis is triple
its market value -- and would put the Milan-based carrier in the
same league as Portugal Telecom SGPS SA and Greece’s  Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA. (HTO)   “In the absence of a rights issue, a cut to junk looks
highly likely and would just be a matter of time,” said  Roger Appleyard , head of global credit research at RBC Capital Markets
in London, who advises selling the company’s bonds and puts the
chances of a downgrade by Moody’s at more than 90 percent.
“Telecom Italia is not a good story.”  ‘Possible Risks’  Representatives for Moody’s and S&P declined to comment on
a potential rating cut. Moody’s outlook on Telecom Italia’s debt
is negative, while S&P’s is stable.  Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe said last week,
after reporting a first-half net loss because of a 2.2 billion-euro goodwill writedown, that a downgrade is “one of the
possible risks that the company must face.”  The yield investors demand to hold Telecom Italia’s 1
billion-euro 4 percent bond due January 2020 rose 43 basis
points to a record 5.5 percent yesterday and was little changed
at 5.45 percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Telecom Italia’s bonds yield an average 5.1 percent, 2.4
percentage points more than the 2.7 percent yield on BBB rated
company debt in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s BBB Euro
Corporate Index. The company’s borrowing costs compare with an
average 2.7 percent for  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and 2.3 percent for  Royal
KPN NV (KPN) , the data show.  Fiat Debt  Non-financial high-yield bonds yield 5.7 percent on
average, the data show. Investors demand 4.3 percent in yield to
hold Italian carmaker Fiat SpA’s speculative-grade securities,
according to the data.  Telecom Italia is among European carriers hurt most by the
region’s debt crisis as consumers cut spending. While  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  has businesses in the U.S. and  emerging markets  such
as  India  to offset revenue declines in southern Europe, and as
Telefonica operates in the U.K. and  Germany , Telecom Italia
generates almost 60 percent of its  sales  from its home market.  Last week, the carrier said revenue in Italy, where it
competes with Vodafone and  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) ’s Wind unit, slumped
10 percent as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 13 percent. Telecom Italia is relying on
growth in  Brazil  and Argentina to offset the decline.  Hutchison Talks  Last December, Telecom Italia turned down an offer from
Egyptian billionaire Naguib Sawiris to invest in the carrier.
Telecom Italia then revived discussions with tycoon  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  about a combination of their
Italian wireless assets. Those talks, which could have resulted
in fresh capital from Hong Kong-based Hutchison, collapsed
because of differences in valuation and concern about Telecom
Italia’s debt.  Speaking to analysts last week, Chief Financial Officer
Piergiorgio Peluso said there is a risk of repayment of loans
Telecom Italia owes to the European Investment Bank in the event
of a downgrade and if the carrier can’t reach an agreement on
additional guarantees or a revision of the price.  Telecom Italia’s stock is headed for its ninth consecutive
annual decline. Down 30 percent this year through yesterday, it
is the  worst performer  on the 24-company Bloomberg Europe
Telecommunication Services Index, which gained 9.4 percent.  Today, the  shares  fell as much as 1.3 percent and were down
0.7 percent to 47.7 euro cents as of 10:19 a.m. in Milan.  Telco Pact  To be sure, a debt downgrade may not be imminent.  Madeleine King, a credit sector strategist for the
telecommunications industry at Credit Suisse Group AG in London,
said Telecom Italia may hold off a rights issue until after
investors such as  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  sell their holdings.  Mediobanca,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) 
and Telefonica together  own  almost 22.5 percent of Telecom
Italia through holding company Telco SpA. The partners, which
agreed in February 2012 to renew their agreement for three years
with an exit option in September 2013 and August 2014, may use
the first window in September to revoke that accord, a person
with knowledge of the matter has said. Last week, Generali CEO
Mario Greco said the insurer would sell its stake under the
right conditions.  Bernabe told analysts last week that its shareholders would
make “a rational and orderly decision” about their holdings.
He also ruled out a capital increase by Telecom Italia.  ‘Tough Comments’  “Even though Telecom Italia is poised to face some tough
comments from S&P and Moody’s in the coming days, the chances of
a downgrade to junk are higher late this year or early next year
rather than now,” King said.  In contrast to Telefonica, Telecom Italia doesn’t have many
assets to sell in order to shore up its balance sheet, King
said.  Last year, Telefonica suspended  dividend payments  and
started selling assets including a stake in its German business,
part of its investment in  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762) , and its
call-center unit Atento. The disposals continued this year with
sales such as the treasury stock, a stake in its Central
American assets and the Irish unit.  “Telecom Italia’s leverage ratio isn’t escalating rapidly,
but the trend of the company’s debt ratings is clearly downward
as it struggles operationally,” said David Novosel, a senior
analyst at independent researcher Gimme Credit LLC in  Chicago .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  