-- Hellman & Friedman to Buy Insurance Broker Hub
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e ,   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-08-05T16:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/hellman-friedman-to-buy-hub-valuing-broker-at-4-4-billion.html
Hellman & Friedman LLC, the buyout
firm co-founded by Warren Hellman, agreed to buy Hub
International Inc. in a transaction that values the insurance
broker at about $4.4 billion.  The deal is the largest takeover of a U.S. insurance broker
on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Funds
managed by Hellman & Friedman will own a majority stake, while
management of Chicago-based Hub will maintain a “significant
equity position,” the broker said in a statement today.  Private-equity firms including  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. have been striking deals in insurance services to
benefit from steady  cash flow  and low capital expenditure. Hub
has more than 6,500 employees in the U.S.,  Canada  and Brazil,
the company said, and it’s projecting revenue this year of about
$1.2 billion. Brokers act as middlemen between commercial
insurance buyers and underwriters.  Hub’s “growing market footprint and capabilities will
allow it to capitalize on significant opportunities,” David Tunnell, a managing director at Hellman & Friedman, said in the
statement.  Hub was taken private in 2007 by London-based private-equity firm Apax Partners LLP and Morgan Stanley’s private
investment unit in a $2 billion transaction. The owners will
reap a profit of more than 200 percent on their $650 million
equity investment, according to a person familiar with the deal.  Earnings Growth  Apax and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which was a minority co-investor,
doubled Hub’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization to just under $400 million over the past six years,
said the person, who requested anonymity because the details are
private. Apax declined to comment on the firm’s profit, saying
in an e-mailed statement that the owners grew Hub through
acquisitions, making it the largest insurance brokerage in
Canada and expanding its business to Brazil.  Hellman & Friedman, based in  San Francisco , was started in
1984 and is led by Philip Hammarskjold.  The firm was founded by
Hellman, who died in 2011, and Tully Friedman, who runs Friedman
Fleischer & Lowe LLC, a San Francisco-based firm that invests
$50 million to $500 million in companies.  Hellman & Friedman is deploying its seventh fund, with more
than $8.9 billion, and has invested in more than 75 companies
over its history, according to its  website . Its insurance
transactions include reinsurer  PartnerRe Ltd. (PRE)  and Sedgwick
Claims Management Services Inc., and previous insurance deals
include reinsurers  Arch Capital Group Ltd. (ACGL)  and GeoVera Insurance
Group.  Industry Expansion  Insurance brokers will have plenty of potential to generate
cash in the coming years, with growth in the industry exceeding
the expansion in gross domestic product in some countries,
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. analysts led by  Meyer Shields  wrote
in a note to clients on July 30.  “Revenues should grow as global GDP rises and as insurance
penetration deepens, especially in  emerging markets  where
premium volume growth tends to outpace GDP growth,” the
analysts wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  