-- Emerging Stocks Advance for Third Day on Chinese Services
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-08-05T21:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/emerging-stocks-climb-as-technology-consumer-companies-advance.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced for a
third day, led by technology companies, after a report showed
that Chinese  service industries  increased for the first time
since March.  Brazil ’s real led declines in currencies.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index gained 0.1 percent to
956.40, following the first weekly retreat in a month. The
Shanghai Composite Index posted the longest rally since May as
retailers jumped, while  HTC Corp. (2498)  surged the most in more than
20 months in Taipei on plans to buy back shares. Brazil’s
 Ibovespa (IBOV)  fell as online seller B2W Cia. Digital tumbled and the
nation’s real paced losses among half of the 24 developing-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Stocks advanced as official data showed  China ’s non-manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index rose to 54.1 in July
from 53.9 in June. The gauge hasn’t dropped below 50, the
dividing line between expansion and contraction, since a new
data series started in March 2011. The measure of developing-nations trimmed this year’s  decline  to 9.4 percent, compared
with a 14 percent increase in the MSCI World Index.  “China is the big driver and has been for quite some
time,”  Peter Jankovskis , who helps oversee $3 billion as co-chief investment officer of Lisle, Illinois-based Oakbrook
Investments LLC, said in telephone interview. “The PMI number
is encouraging.”  A measure of technology shares in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index added 0.8 percent, while consumer-staple and financial
companies retreated. The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index 
exchange-traded fund lost 0.6 percent to $39.46. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, dropped 1.9 percent to 20.45.  Brazil, Russia  Brazil’s Ibovespa slid 0.1 percent as B2W led losses among
retailers. The real extended this year’s slump to 11 percent.
 Mexico ’s IPC index snapped a three-day rally as construction
company Empresas ICA SAB retreated.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  was little changed in Moscow after slumping
for two weeks. OAO Uralkali tumbled as the potash producer’s
suspension of a venture that controlled almost half of global
exports prompted Bank of America Merrill Lynch to cut the stock
to sell.  Turkey  and Poland’s shares gained.  China’s  stocks  rose for a fifth day as Shanghai Friendship
Group Inc. paced a rally for retailers. HTC rebounded from its
lowest level in almost eight years in Taipei, while  South
Korea ’s won rose the most in three weeks.  Tata Consultancy  Indian stocks climbed as investors speculated the eight-day
decline in the  benchmark index  was excessive. Sterlite
Industries ( India ) Ltd., the nation’s biggest copper producer,
jumped 4.5 percent. Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. gained for
the second day.  Zimbabwe’s main stock index plunged 11 percent, its biggest
one-day decline since 2009, after President  Robert Mugabe  won a
presidential election to extend his 33 years in power and his
main rival refused to accept the result.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries slid 0.05 percentage point to 322 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  