-- Mercedes Considering Production of Luxury Cars in Brazil
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-08-05T08:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/mercedes-considering-production-of-luxury-cars-in-brazil.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz brand is
considering building cars in  Brazil  to avoid import taxes and
serve a growing number of affluent customers in South America’s
biggest economy.  “As part of our growth strategy we are constantly
reviewing our global production network and in this context
we’re also examining the financial feasibility of a local car
production in Brazil,” Daimler spokesman Martin Steinlehner
said by phone today. No decision has been made, he said.  Local production in Brazil is becoming increasingly common
to avoid import taxes imposed by President Dilma Rousseff, who
aims to boost manufacturing in the country. An expansion by
German automakers in South America is also meant to help offset
declining demand in their home region, where sales are set to
slump for a sixth straight year.  Mercedes, the third-biggest maker of luxury cars, would be
following No. 1 luxury automaker  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  in
setting up a factory in the country. The Munich-based company
plans to start building vehicles in Brazil’s southern state of
Santa Catarina in 2014, the manufacturer announced last year.  BMW is investing 200 million euros ($266 million) to keep
ahead of Mercedes and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi unit, which is also
considering producing cars in the country. Audi, currently
second in global luxury car sales, and Mercedes have both vowed
to dethrone BMW by the end of the decade.  Brazil Expansion  Mercedes plans to start making its mid-sized C-Class model
in Brazil starting in 2015, Spiegel magazine reported yesterday
without citing where it got the information. The Stuttgart-based
carmaker is aiming for an initial annual production of 20,000
vehicles, the magazine said.  BMW is planning capacity of 30,000 vehicles in Brazil. Audi
plans to produce 150,000 cars annually at its new plant in San
Jose Chiapa,  Mexico . Demand for high-end vehicles in South
America’s biggest economy is expected to grow amid rising wages
and as the country invests to host the soccer World Cup in 2014
and the Summer Olympic Games in 2016.  Mercedes already builds heavy-duty trucks and buses in
Brazil at facilities in Sao Bernardo do Campo and Juiz de Fora,
which was converted from making cars in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  