-- Terror Threat Extends U.S. Embassy Closings Citing Yemen
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-08-05T20:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/terror-threat-extends-u-s-embassy-closings-citing-yemen.html
At least 19 U.S. embassies and
consulates in predominantly Muslim countries will remain closed
through this week as the Obama administration tied terror
threats to the Yemen-based offshoot of al-Qaeda.  That branch “has been the most operationally active
affiliate of al-Qaeda core,” State Department spokeswoman Marie
Harf told reporters today in Washington, in the government’s
most specific description of the source of the terror threats
disclosed last week.  The U.S. closed 22 outposts yesterday after the State
Department’s issued a worldwide travel alert warning of attacks
in the  Middle East , North Africa and South Asia by al-Qaeda or
its affiliates. The decision to extend the shutdown for 19 of
the facilities through Aug. 10 “is not an indication of a new
threat,”  Jen Psaki , a department spokeswoman, said yesterday in
an e-mail.  While the threat is from the branch called al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said
today the risk extends “potentially” beyond the region. He
declined to specify whether there was any direct threat to the
U.S. homeland.  “The threat from al-Qaeda and affiliated organizations to
the  United States  and to the American people has been a reality
that we’ve talked about for a long time now,” he said.  Core ‘Decimated’  Carney defended the administration’s past statements that
al-Qaeda has been on the run because of U.S. military and
intelligence action. He sought to make a distinction between the
al-Qaeda movement that was led by  Osama bin Laden  and the
splinter groups such as al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.  Obama has always “made clear that the threat from al-Qaeda
very much remains” even though the core leadership “that
attacked the United States on Sept. 11, 2001, has been
decimated,” Carney said.  While bin Laden’s core al-Qaeda group operated out of
 Afghanistan  and he was killed by U.S. special forces in
 Pakistan , he was born in the remote area of Saudi Arabia and
 Yemen  that is now the base of the AQAP offshoot.  Britain’s embassy in Yemen, which was also closed yesterday
because of heightened security concerns, will remain shut until
the end of the Muslim Eid holiday this week, the  Foreign Office
said on its website . The mission is operating with only
essential staff. The U.K. has urged all Britons to leave Yemen.  France, Germany  France  will keep its embassy in the Yemeni capital, Sanaa,
closed though Aug. 7, the Foreign Ministry in Paris said. The
German mission there remains shut as well, Foreign Ministry
spokesman Andreas Peschke told a news conference in Berlin,
though he said there’s no evidence of specific terror threats.  “High-level people from al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula
are talking about a major attack,” U.S. Representative C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of Maryland, the top Democrat on the
House Intelligence committee, said on ABC’s “This Week”
program that aired yesterday. “The good news is that we’ve
picked up intelligence.”  The information includes communications among known
terrorists intercepted by the National Security Agency in recent
days, according to two U.S. officials who asked not to be
identified discussing classified intelligence matters. They
declined to offer specifics about the exchanges, only saying the
content is credible and disturbing.  “This threat was so specific as to how enormous it was
going to be and also certain dates were given,” Representative
 Peter King , a  New York  Republican who serves on both the House
Intelligence and Homeland Security committees, said on “This
Week.” While an attempted attack is most likely to happen in
the Middle East, “It could be in  Europe , it could be in the
United States.”  ‘Most Serious’  “This is the most serious threat that I’ve seen in the
last several years,” Senator  Saxby Chambliss  of  Georgia , the
top Republican on the chamber’s Intelligence Committee, said on
NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “There’s been an awful lot of
chatter out there” among terrorists, Chambliss said, noting
it’s “reminiscent of what we saw pre-9/11.”  Twenty-two embassies and other diplomatic posts were closed
yesterday, including in  Libya ,  Egypt , Yemen and Jordan. Some of
them were removed from the list of closures for the week, while
others were added.  ‘End of August’  “Current information suggests that al-Qaeda and affiliated
organizations continue to plan terrorist attacks both in the
region and beyond, and that they may focus efforts to conduct
attacks in the period between now and the end of August,” the
department said last week. The attacks “may involve public
transportation systems and other tourist infrastructure.”  The warning of a potential attack by al-Qaeda and other
terrorist organizations is unusual this time partly because the
groups are so “widely dispersed,” said  Michael Chertoff , who
was homeland security secretary under President  George W. Bush .  “It’s actually quite rare to have this broad and yet so
alarming and specific a warning be publicly disseminated,”
Chertoff, who founded a security consulting company in
Washington, told “This Week.”  Benghazi Attack  The State Department pledged to increase security at
embassies and consulates after the attack on a U.S. mission in
Benghazi, Libya, on Sept. 11, 2012, led to the death of U.S.
Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans. The Central
Intelligence Agency said it had warned the State Department
repeatedly of terrorist threats in Benghazi before the attack,
according to e-mails released later by the White House.  The State Department had issued a similar warning of
possible attacks before that.  The latest alert and embassy closures may be an effort to
disrupt al-Qaeda operations, according to  Michael Hayden , who
served as CIA director under the George W. Bush administration.  The announcements may be designed to put al-Qaeda “on the
back foot, to let them know that we’re alert and we’re on to at
least a portion of this plot line,” Hayden said yesterday on
“Fox News Sunday.”  Too Ambitious  The scale of the attacks discussed in the intercepted al-Qaeda communications, coupled with the fact that the messages
violated the terrorist group’s known rules about avoiding mobile
and satellite phones and online conversations in favor of
couriers, made some intelligence officials suspicious about the
group’s intent, the two U.S. officials said.  The attacks the terrorists discussed were too ambitious in
size and scope to ignore, both officials said, and that may have
been deliberate. It’s also possible the discussions were
intended to put al-Qaeda back in the headlines after years of
foiled plots. The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity
because they aren’t authorized to speak publicly.  At the same time, said both officials, it’s not time to
exhale because the list of targets and the timing in the
intercepted communications may have been deliberately
misleading, or the planners may have gone back to the drawing
board after they learned that their plans had been discovered.  The U.S. warning came days after al-Qaeda’s leader,  Ayman al-Zawahiri , urged his followers in a speech posted on jihadist
websites to attack U.S. sites as a response to American drone
strikes in Pakistan and Yemen, according to the SITE
Intelligence Group, which monitors terrorist groups.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net  