-- EU Bank Calculations of Capital Vary Widely, EBA Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-08-05T14:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/eu-bank-calculations-of-capital-vary-widely-eba-says.html
The European Union’s top banking
regulator said it found inconsistencies in the way lenders
calculate how much capital to hold on their balance sheets
against potential losses, adding to the clamor from global
supervisors to increase transparency.  Banks may face requirements to publish more information on
what’s in their portfolios, how they calculate the risk of a
borrower defaulting and how much they could lose as a result,
the  European Banking Authority  said in a report today. The EBA,
set up in 2011 to harmonize banking rules across the 28-member
bloc, surveyed 35 banks from 13 EU countries for the review.  “This is an important step in a series of exercises the
EBA is conducting with the aim of ensuring consistency in the
calculation of risk-weighted assets across the EU,” Andrea Enria, chairman of the EBA, said in a statement.  Concerns about banks’ ability to reduce their capital
requirements by changing how they measure the risk of losses on
their assets have prompted investigations by regulators and
calls from some supervisors for more reliance on simpler, non-risk-sensitive capital rules, known as leverage ratios.  The EBA found that the definition of default varied between
banks. Two-thirds of the lenders classified a defaulting
borrower as one who fails to repay a loan 90 days after it is
due, whereas the rest use different calculations.  ‘Additional Clarity’  The regulator said it may use its powers to harmonize the
definition of default across the EU bloc to provide “additional
clarity.”  The EBA asked the banks it surveyed to apply their risk
models to a hypothetical portfolio of the debt of 46
governments, 91 other banks and 856 of the largest companies
with a low probability of default. The lenders surveyed include
Deutsche Bank AG, Banco Santander SA and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest state-owned lender.  Last month, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, a
group that brings together global banking regulators, said that
a study of 32 global banks had found “material” differences in
how much capital lenders thought was needed to guard against
possible losses on assets such as corporate and household debt.
The variations meant that some lenders were backing investments
with as much as 20 percent more capital than other banks, the
group said.  Information that is currently public is “insufficient to
allow investors and other interested parties to assess how much
of the variation reflects differing levels of actual risk,” the
Basel committee said in a report earlier this year.  U.S. bankers including Jamie Dimon, chief executive officer
of JPMorgan Chase & Co., have said that flexible implementation
of previous versions of Basel capital rules in the EU has
allowed European lenders to hold less capital against some
assets than their U.S. counterparts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lindsay Fortado at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net  