-- Euro-Area July Services Output Contracts Less Than Estimated
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-08-05T09:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/euro-area-july-services-output-contracts-less-than-estimated.html
Euro-area services  output shrank at a
slower pace than initially estimated in July, adding to evidence
the economy is gathering strength to pull out of a record-long
recession.  An index of activity in the services industry based on a
survey of  purchasing managers  rose to 49.8 from 48.3 in June,
London-based Markit Economics said in a report today. That’s
above an initial estimate of 49.6 on July 24. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  Manufacturing in the 17-nation economy expanded at a faster
pace than initially estimated last month as the industry resumed
growth after two years of contraction. European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said last week that recent indicators
signal the  euro zone  is past the worst of the slump and data
“tentatively confirm the expectation of a stabilization in
economic activity.”  Today’s report “fuels hope that euro-zone GDP has finally
stopped contracting and is on course to eke out marginal growth
over the second half of the year,” said  Howard Archer , chief
European economist at IHS Global Insight in London. “The hope
for the euro zone is that current rising confidence encourages
businesses to increasingly pare back their job cutting and
become more prepared to invest, and also encourages consumers to
spend more.”  Factory Gauge  The euro was higher against the  U.S. dollar , trading at
$1.3292 at 11:06 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.1 percent on the day.
The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gained 0.5 percent.  The euro-area factory gauge increased to 50.3 last month
from 48.8 in June, Markit said on Aug. 1. That exceeded the
estimate of 50.1 published on July 24. A composite index of both
manufacturing and services rose to 50.5 in July from 48.7 in the
prior month, topping the 50 mark for the first time since
January 2012, Markit said today.  The report “confirms a welcome return to growth for the
euro-zone economy at the start of the  third quarter , raising
hopes that the region can finally claw its way out of its
longest-running recession,” Rob Dobson, senior economist at
Markit, said in the report. “ Manufacturing (PMITMEZ)  is leading the way
out of contraction, with some nations benefitting from improved
export demand.”  China’s Economy  In  Asia ,  China’s economy  is showing signs of stabilizing
after slowing for two quarters, with official manufacturing and
services indexes rising and gains in gauges of business
expectations. The  non-manufacturing  Purchasing Managers’ Index
increased to 54.1 in July from 53.9, the first acceleration
since March, government data showed on Aug. 3, following last
week’s unexpected gain in a manufacturing PMI.  Europe’s economy, which has contracted for six straight
quarters, probably stagnated in the three months through June
and will return to growth this quarter, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists on July 11. A separate report today showed
that euro-area retail sales declined 0.5 percent in June, the
first drop in three months.  Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s largest insurer, posted second-quarter
profit on Aug. 2 that beat analyst estimates after higher
earnings at its non-life and asset-management units. Net income
rose 27 percent to 1.59 billion euros ($2.1 billion) from a year
earlier, the Munich-based company said.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (AF) , Europe’s second-largest airline,
said on Aug. 2 that second-quarter operating profit rose to 438
million euros from 269 million euros a year earlier, when
adjusted for restructuring costs and one-time items.  “Euro-area economic activity should stabilize and recover
at a slow pace,” Draghi said on Aug. 1. “The risks surrounding
the economic outlook for the euro area continue to be on the
downside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in  London  at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  