-- Euro-Area Investor Sentiment Rises on Central Bank Boost
-- B y   P a u l   G o r d o n
-- 2013-08-05T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/euro-area-investor-sentiment-rises-on-central-bank-boost.html
Euro-area  investor confidence 
improved in August, adding to signs that the 17-nation currency
bloc may be emerging from its longest-ever recession, according
to the Sentix research institute.  An index measuring sentiment in the region rose to minus
4.9 from minus 12.6 in July, Limburg, Germany-based Sentix said
today in an e-mailed statement. Economists predicted a figure of
minus 10, according to the median of 17  estimates  in a Bloomberg
News survey. Gauges of economic expectations and current
conditions also improved.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said last week
that economic indicators signal the euro area is past the worst
after at least six quarters of contraction. Manufacturing
expanded for the first time in two years in July and business
confidence improved for a third month. Draghi reiterated that
risks remain weighted toward the downside and interest rates
will stay low for the foreseeable future.  “Central banks are once again the engine of the economy,
through liquidity measures and easier refinancing conditions,”
Sentix said in the report. “It is essential for further
economic advancement that the central bank-induced recovery
develops its own momentum.”  More than half of the companies in the benchmark Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index that have reported  second-quarter sales  so far
have topped analyst estimates. That’s up from about 40 percent
in the prior quarter. While much of that was down to sales
growth in  North America  and  Asia , this time the fallout from
Europe’s debt crisis didn’t overshadow those gains.  Sentix’ measure of investor expectations for the euro area
climbed to 14.3 in August from 7.3 in the prior month. The gauge
of current conditions advanced to minus 22.3 from minus 30.5.
Investor confidence in  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, rose
to 20.3 from 18.4 in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Gordon  in Frankfurt at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  