-- Europe June Airport Traffic Rises in Second Monthly Gain
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-05T10:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/europe-june-airport-traffic-rises-in-second-monthly-gain.html
European airport passenger figures
rose a second consecutive month in June in a sign the region’s
aviation-industry traffic decline may have bottomed out.  The number of travelers passing through air terminals in
the European Union rose 1.8 percent from a year earlier,
Airports Council International Europe said in a statement today.
That narrowed the traffic decline in the first six months of the
year to 0.2 percent.  Europe’s prolonged debt crisis and unemployment have
prompted businesses and individuals to curb travel. Airlines
including  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , the
region’s biggest, are responding with reorganizations that
include bundling short-haul routes into new divisions and
eliminating jobs.  “Our traffic figures are pointing to a rather weak and
gradual recovery for EU airports,” Olivier Jankovec, director
general for the European arm of ACI, said in the statement.
“This is consistent with the fact that economic sentiment
across the euro-zone is generally improving.”  British Airways parent  International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA (IAG)  said on Aug. 2 that revenue per passenger on its intra-European network advanced 8 percent in the first six months.
Performance in the region was “a little bit of a surprise,”
Chief Financial Officer Enrique Dupuy told analysts. The London-based company, which also owns Spanish carrier Iberia, reported
second-quarter operating profit 245 million euros ($324 million)
versus a year-earlier loss of 4 million euros  ‘Solid Performance’  Lufthansa saw “very solid performance in Europe,” CFO
Simone Menne told analysts Aug. 2 as the Cologne, Germany-based
airline posted a 27 percent drop in operating profit to 431
million euros on stagnant sales of 7.89 billion euros. Bookings
have been “very satisfying” as Lufthansa has shifted short-haul activity to its discount unit Germanwings, she said.  First-half traffic at airports tracked by ACI Europe rose
1.8 percent, driven by 9.8 percent growth at airports in non-EU
countries. The June figure increased 3.4 percent.  Even so, “airlines are still not adding much capacity to
the market, and freight traffic remains in recession, ”
Jankovec said. Air-cargo tonnage in Europe fell 0.9 percent
during the period, the trade group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  