-- Evolution Seeking Gold Acquisitions After Slump in Prices
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-08-05T04:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/evolution-seeking-gold-acquisitions-after-slump-in-prices.html
Evolution Mining Ltd. (EVN) , partly owned
by Australia’s largest gold producer, is looking to seize on the
slump in the metal’s price to make acquisitions as competitors
struggle and major producers exit.  “If you look at the industry in two years time you will
have had the majors exit and some mines close,” Chairman Jake Klein said today in an interview in Kalgoorlie, Western
Australia. “To me this is the period when the leaders into the
next cycle are going to be created.”  Gold-mining companies have announced at least $21 billion
of writedowns in the past two months after the metal’s steepest
quarterly drop in  London  in more than nine decades. Evolution,
almost a third owned by  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , is likely to look
for acquisition opportunities with a focus now on “distressed
juniors,” Credit Suisse Group AG said last month.  “Firepower is limited in reality, but we are in a market
where you don’t need a lot of firepower,” Klein said in the
interview. “If you’re just standing and you have a cheque book,
I think you are in the game.”  Evolution Mining rose 4.3 percent to 85 cents at 1:28 p.m.
Sydney time. It’s dropped 50 percent this year.  Evolution, which said last month it expected to write down
the value of its assets and goodwill by A$350 million ($310
million) to A$400 million, had A$13.7 million in cash at June 30
and available credit of A$73.2 million, the company said today
in a presentation to the Diggers and Dealers forum in Kalgoorlie.  About 30 percent to 40 percent of gold production in
 Australia  is likely to change ownership as major producers sell
assets, while 10 percent to 20 percent of production will be
lost as mines close, Klein said. “This phase of writedowns is a
step towards getting the buyer and seller closer,” he said.  While the focus for potential acquisitions will be on
Australia, Evolution could also look at projects in another
country, Klein said. The producer doesn’t envisage operating in
a large number of countries, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  