-- Facebook Hires Google Executive Gary Briggs as First CMO
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-08-05T20:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/facebook-hires-google-executive-gary-briggs-as-first-cmo.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  hired Gary Briggs, a
veteran of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , to be its first chief
marketing officer as the world’s largest social network seeks to
expand its global brand.  Briggs, who most recently served as an adviser to the head
of Google’s Motorola Mobility division, starts today, Facebook
said in an e-mailed statement. While he’s the first CMO, Briggs
is taking on duties formerly handled by Eric Antonow, who is
leaving product marketing to pursue a project in education.  As the first CMO, Briggs will be responsible for building
Facebook’s appeal among its 1.15 billion members and promoting
new products. Since holding its initial public offering in May
2012, the company has invested in high-production advertisements
including a promotional video shot by Academy Award-nominated
director Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu and a series of clips
showing off its Home application for Android phones.  “Telling the story of such an important and still very
young brand is an incredible opportunity, and I cannot wait to
get started,” Briggs wrote in an e-mailed statement.  Briggs began at Google in 2010, and served as a vice
president of consumer marketing at the search giant before
shifting to Motorola last year when it was acquired by Google.
Previously, he held vice president roles at EBay and its
payments unit, PayPal, as well as running the gift-card startup
Plastic Jungle. The new CMO will report to Chris Cox, the
Facebook’s vice president of product.  Facebook rose 3 percent to $39.19 at the close in  New York .
On Aug. 2, the shares closed above $38, a price not seen since
its IPO in May 2012. The company has a market capitalization of
$95.4 billion, compared with $301.6 billion for Google and  Intel
Corp. (INTC) ’s $114.2 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  