-- Fed Loan Survey Shows Easier Lending for Mortgages, Businesses
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-08-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/fed-loan-survey-shows-easier-lending-for-mortgages-businesses.html
U.S. banks are seeing an increase in
demand for credit and are providing loans more readily to home
buyers and businesses, according to a Federal Reserve survey.  “Domestic banks, on balance, reported having eased their
lending standards and having experienced stronger demand in most
loan categories over the past three months,” the  central bank 
said in its quarterly survey of senior loan officers released in
Washington today.  The report adds to evidence that credit conditions are
contributing support to an economy beset by  federal budget  cuts.
The  Federal Open Market Committee  reviewed the report at a
meeting last week at which it concluded that “economic growth
will pick up from its recent pace.”  Banks reported easing lending terms to businesses of all
sizes as demand picked up and competition increased. The Fed
described the fraction of domestic banks easing their terms on
commercial and industrial lending as “moderate to large.”  A “modest” group reported easing standards on prime
residential and non-traditional mortgage loans while a “large”
fraction of banks in the survey saw increased demand for
mortgages.  Banks in the U.S. have boosted lending as the economy gains
strength. The total  value of loans  at U.S. banks climbed 2.9
percent in the past year to $7.3 trillion in June, according to
a Fed report last week. Lending to businesses led the way, with
commercial and industrial loans climbing to $1.56 trillion in
June, an increase of 8.5 percent from a year earlier.  Economic Growth  The improvement in lending hasn’t translated to broad-based
economic growth. The economy grew 1.7 percent in the second
quarter of 2013 and employers added 162,000 jobs in July, the
fewest since March, according to a Labor Department report.  Banks are seeing improved conditions across a range of
loans. A “moderate”-sized group of banks reported easing their
standards on auto loans while a “small” group eased  credit
card  and consumer loans, the survey showed.  “Demand for all three types of consumer loans asked about
in the survey had reportedly strengthened, on balance,” the Fed
said.  The survey was conducted from July 2 to July 16 and
garnered responses from 73 domestic banks and 22 U.S. branches
and agencies of foreign banks. The Fed doesn’t identify the
banks that were surveyed.  The central bank has tried to improve the flow of credit by
holding its target interest rate near zero since 2008,
undertaking three rounds of bond purchases and increasing its
surveillance to ensure banks could lend during a severe
downturn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  