-- Fed Should Reverse Commodity Policy, CFTC’s Chilton Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-08-05T16:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/fed-should-reverse-commodity-trading-policy-cftc-s-chilton-says.html
The  Federal Reserve  should reverse a
decade-old ruling that lets banks trade physical commodities,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission member Bart Chilton said.  “I don’t want a bank owning an electric service, or
cotton, corn or feedlots,” Chilton, a Democrat, said in remarks
prepared for delivery today at a conference of U.S. cotton
growers in Lake Tahoe, California. “I don’t want banks owning
warehouses, whether they have aluminum, gold, silver or anything
else in them.” The Fed “can and should reverse” the policy,
he said.  Banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , all based in New York, have been permitted to
expand into  commodities markets  under a 2003 Fed decision and
subsequent ones. The central bank said last month that it’s
reviewing the policy amid Senate scrutiny of whether such
involvement allows Wall Street firms to control prices.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, said days after
a congressional hearing on the matter last month that it’s
weighing whether to sell or spin off holdings in physical
commodities. The 10 largest Wall Street firms reaped about $6
billion in revenue from commodities in 2012, including dealings
in physical materials as well as related financial products,
analytics company Coalition Ltd. said in a Feb. 15 report.  Falling Revenue  Commodities revenue at the 10 largest investment banks fell
25 percent in the first half of this year, putting those units
on pace for the worst annual performance in more than five
years, Coalition said today. Revenue fell to about $2.7 billion
in the first six months from $3.6 billion in the same period of
2012, Coalition said today in an e-mail.  “The Federal Reserve regularly monitors the commodity
activities of supervised firms and is reviewing the 2003
determination that certain commodity activities are
complementary to financial activities and thus permissible for
bank holding companies,”  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed spokeswoman,
said on July 19. She declined to elaborate.  Banks’ ownership of commodity interests already has drawn
scrutiny from the CFTC and the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and Senate Democrats are planning additional
hearings on the issue.  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler , declining to comment on
specific investigations, said at a Senate hearing on July 29
that his agency has legal authority to pursue manipulation of
markets for metals and other commodities. The CFTC has sent
letters to companies asking them not to destroy documents
relating to warehouses registered by exchanges such as the
London Metal Exchange or Chicago Mercantile Exchange, according
to a copy of the letter obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Volcker Rule  In a letter to Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  dated Aug. 2,
Chilton urged additional restrictions as part of a proposed ban
on proprietary trading. The rule named for former Fed Chairman
 Paul Volcker , who championed it as an adviser to President
 Barack Obama , should have a narrow definition of banks’ hedging
activities that takes account for their ownership of physical
commodities.  “Without clear prohibitory guidelines, if a bank owns
physical commodities, it could contend (with a certain degree of
justification) that the Volcker rule and position limits simply
aren’t applicable to them, as the commodity ownership and
trading pertains to ‘hedging’ their physical business risks,”
Chilton said in the letter.  Regulators have said they are seeking to complete the
Volcker rule by the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  