-- Fitch Raises California to A on Brown’s ‘Sound’ Budgeting
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-08-06T07:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/fitch-raises-california-to-a-on-brown-s-sound-budgeting.html
Fitch Ratings raised its grade for
 California ’s bonds, citing its economic recovery and “timely,
more structurally sound” budgets, leaving Illinois the lowest-scored by all three major ratings companies.  Fitch boosted the most-populous state debt one step to A,
sixth-highest level, yesterday. It was the company’s first
upgrade of California since 2010 and the state’s highest score
from Fitch since 2009.  GovernorJerry Brown, 75, persuaded voters in November to
boost income and sales taxes to end deficits that cumulatively
exceeded $100 billion since 2007. He built into his plan an $850
million surplus, California’s first in about a decade.  Fitch was the last of the three biggest rating companies to
grade California and Illinois at the same level. Fitch cut
 Illinois  in June to A-, four levels above junk. Moody’s
Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s have the fifth-most-populous state at an equivalent level.  Fitch cited Brown’s efforts to erase recurring budget
deficits, pass budgets on time and ease California’s reliance on
borrowing for operating expenditures.  “Fitch believes that these gains provide the state with a
greater capacity to address future fiscal and budgetary
cyclicality,” according to a report. “However, California’s
credit standing is likely to remain lower than most states for
the foreseeable future given the magnitude of the state’s
budgetary and financial challenges.”  The action came as California plans to  sell  $5.5 billion in
revenue-anticipation notes Aug. 15. Fitch rated the notes F1,
its second-highest for short-term debt.  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market demand
about 1.52 percentage points of extra yield above benchmark AAA
munis to own Illinois general-obligation debt maturing in 10
years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Buyers require only 0.36
percentage point above top-graded munis to own similar-maturity
California securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at +1-323-782-4234 or
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at +1-212-617-0698 or
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: William
Glasgall at 
   wglasgall@bloomberg.net  