-- Fonterra Tainted Items Add to Woes of Consumers in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-06T03:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/fonterra-tainted-items-add-to-woes-of-consumers-in-china.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.’s
warnings of tainted ingredients in some products of the world’s
largest dairy exporter is the latest blow to baby formula
sellers amid Chinese consumers’ concerns about food safety.  The Auckland-based company found bacteria causing a rare
illness called botulism in about 38 metric tons of whey protein
concentrate it produced, Fonterra said yesterday. Baby formula
makers Danone and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , which either used
Fonterra ingredients or packaged their milk at the company’s
production lines, said they took precautionary recalls.  The possible threat of some baby formula with the
contaminated ingredients stocked on shop shelves comes as
Chinese consumers are still reeling from the milk powder
adulterated with melamine that killed six babies in 2008. This
adds to the woes of consumers in China’s almost $16 billion
infant formula market where foreign manufacturers have faced
allegations of charging high prices.  “The whole industry is racked with systemic problems,”
said Matthew Crabbe, head of Asia Pacific research at Mintel
Group. “This is a further dent in  consumer confidence .”  Fonterra said 90 percent of affected products are in
warehouses and the company is working to take back the rest from
retail stores in the next “24 to 48 hours,” Chief Executive
Officer Theo Spierings told reporters in Beijing yesterday. “We
deeply apologize to the people who have been affected by the
issue,” he said.  Import Restrictions  In a commentary titled “Remembering the Fonterra lesson,”
by the official People’s Daily, the publication wrote that China
needs more foreign milk imports supervision and should strictly
check all milk imports, regardless of the brand.  “There is a belief among some Chinese consumers that
foreign brands are absolutely safe, yet, as one incident after
another indicates, even well known brands may not always be the
most reliable,” it wrote.  China  stopped imports of whey protein and a dairy base
powder from Fonterra used in infant formula, New Zealand’s Trade
Minister Tim Groser said yesterday. Russia temporarily suspended
purchases of all New Zealand dairy products, he said.  About 17 tons of the contaminated protein was used by
customers in  Australia  and New Zealand to make about 2,100 tons
of baby milk powder, Fonterra said yesterday. The rest was used
by other customers including  Coca-Cola (KO)  in other products.  New Zealand Prime Minister John Key said yesterday there is
no question the incident has done damage to the country and that
there will be an inquiry into the incident.  There have been no reports of any illness linked to
consumption of the affected goods, Fonterra said.  Botulism  is a
serious paralytic illness, according to the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.  Pre-emptive Recalls  Danone (BN)  was informed about the contaminated Fonterra whey
protein on Aug. 2 and started pre-emptive recalls of affected
milk powder products in China on Aug. 4, it said in an e-mailed
statement. Twelve batches of milk powder products from its  Dumex 
unit might have been affected, the Paris-based company said.  Some of these products had already entered the market, said
Danone which advised consumers who have purchased them to
refrain from using it immediately.  A total of 140,000 tins of its Cow and Gate infant formula
will be recalled in Hong Kong, of which about 80,000 tins were
sold to retailers in the city and Macau, Lee Siu-Yuen, assistant
director of the Center for Food Safety, told reporters
yesterday. About 50,000 tins are still in the warehouse, she
said.  Abbott Recall  Abbott, the maker of Similac Gain milk formula, said it was
recalling two batches of infant milk powder in China after the
products were packed using Fonterra’s production line, which was
not cleaned after using the contaminated ingredients.  None of its products sold on the mainland contained the
tainted whey protein, and the recall was precautionary, Pamela
Harrison, the Abbott Park, Illinois-based company’s spokeswoman
said today.  Fonterra’s announcement is the latest in a string of
incidents plaguing China’s milk industry. The New Zealand dairy
company in January had to assure China that traces of an
agricultural chemical found in some milk posed no health risks.  In 2008, locally made melamine-contaminated milk powder
caused an industry-wide scandal in China, prompting the collapse
of Fonterra’s partner Sanlu Group. The tainted milk killed six
infants after 22 companies including Sanlu sold formula made
from tainted milk.  Coca-Cola, Wahaha  China is stepping up scrutiny of local and international
food companies. This year it disclosed a probe into pricing of
baby formula, prompting companies from Danone to  Nestle SA (NESN)  to
cut prices. Fonterra in July said it would cut prices in China
for Anmum supplements for pregnant women.  “There is only going to be increased scrutiny on foreign
milk powder brands from now on,” said James Roy, senior analyst
at China Market Research Group in Shanghai. “You see a renewed
push by the government to crack down on safety issues, and there
is an impetus to show that these issues are not solely linked to
domestic brands.”  Shanghai Tangjiu Group Co. and two units of Wahaha, the
beverage-maker owned by China’s richest man  Zong Qinghou , were
the other companies named by the General Administration of
Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine as likely having
imported the tainted goods.  Coca-Cola, which received the problem whey protein from
Shanghai Tangjiu, said it quarantined some whey protein it
received from Fonterra and will recall all affected products in
China.  Wahaha, which sells products ranging from bottled water to
baby formula, did not find the bacteria in self checks, it said.
No food safety issues were found in the products already sold,
the company said.  Fonterra, which said none of its own branded consumer
products are affected by the quality issue, drew about 14
percent of its revenue from China in the six months ended Jan.
31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in  Shanghai  at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  