-- France Should Ease Deficit Reduction to Sustain Growth, IMF Says
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-08-05T14:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/france-should-ease-deficit-reduction-to-sustain-growth-imf-says.html
The French government needs to
continue freeing up its labor market and avoid new taxes to
sustain recent signs of economic recovery, an International
Monetary Fund staff report said.  The government will have completed two-thirds of the effort
needed to bring its deficit to a stable position by the end of
this year and it “should ease the pace of adjustment,” the IMF
said in the report today. “The government needs to rebalance
efforts and reduce spending rather than increase taxes.”  The Washington-based IMF said the French economy will
contract 0.1 percent this year and rebound 0.8 percent next
year. The 2013 prediction is a return to what the IMF forecast
in April. In June, the IMF forecast a decline of 0.2 percent.  President Francois Hollande’s government needs to build on
its recent steps to cut payroll taxes, allow companies more
flexibility in setting wages and improve job training.  “The slow pace of reforms needed to make the labor and
product markets more competitive have also undermined the
economy’s potential to grow,” the IMF said.  In a written response attached to the report,  France ’s
representative to the IMF, Herve de Villeroche, said the
government’s deficit cutting plans comply with the IMF’s
recommendation and cited talks about cutting losses at the
pension system.  He rejected the IMF’s recommendation to freeze the minimum
wage and said his government expects higher growth than the IMF,
which he said hadn’t taken into account recent European Union
programs to boost jobs. The French government will announce its
latest growth forecasts when it presents its 2014 budget later
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  