-- German Capacity Power Market Should Be Last Resort, EEX Says
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-08-05T16:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/german-capacity-power-market-should-be-last-resort-eex-says.html
The German power market is flexible
enough to secure the nation’s power without the introduction of
a mechanism that steers the availability of generation capacity,
according to the European Energy Exchange AG.  European market integration, higher efficiency and more
flexibility from consumers are measures that would help to
ensure electricity supply in  Europe ’s biggest market, Leipzig,
Germany-based EEX said today in an e-mailed statement. A
capacity market, where utilities get fixed prices for
guaranteeing backup power in advance, should only be considered
after that, the bourse said.  German is rebuilding its energy system and gives priority
grid access to renewable energy. A surge in supplies has pushed
electricity prices to record-low levels and the number of hours
thermal generation is needed to meet demand has shrunk.  “The turnaround in the energy sector is too complex to be
controlled by central guidelines and with a limited, national
focus,” Peter Reitz, EEX’s chief executive officer said.  Germany  targets 35 percent of  energy supply  to come from
renewables by 2020, from about 22 percent at the end of last
year.  EON SE, Germany’s biggest utility, says a capacity market
needs existing plants to stay open and new power stations built
in the future, Markus Nitschke, a spokesman for Dusseldorf-based
EON, said in an e-mail today. Such a mechanism should also be
integrated into neighboring regional and European markets, he
said.  German economic minister Philipp Roesler wants to rework
the nation’s energy law that grants subsidies and priority grid
access to renewables, he said in a July 24 interview with
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  