-- Germany Opens Airwave Review on Telefonica-KPN Mobile Merger
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-08-05T10:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/germany-opens-airwave-review-on-telefonica-kpn-wireless-merger.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Royal KPN NV (KPN) , which
have proposed to merge their German mobile-phone assets, could
be forced to give up some wireless frequencies, according to the
country’s telecommunications regulator.  The airwaves for carrying signals based on GSM and UMTS
standards were granted under the condition that their users
remain independent,  Iris Henseler-Unger , vice president of the
Federal Network Agency, wrote in a letter to Thorsten Dirks,
chief executive officer of KPN’s E-Plus unit, and his
counterpart at  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG (O2D) , Rene Schuster,
after a conference call on July 23.  “As a rule, the Federal Network Agency must guard the
competitive independence of owners of frequency rights in an
area of scarce resources,” Henseler-Unger wrote. “Ultimately,
the Federal Network Agency can enforce this by withdrawing the
frequency assignment.”  By agreeing to combine their German wireless assets in the
8.1 billion-euro ($10.8 billion) deal, Telefonica and KPN are
laying down a challenge for European regulators, which in the
past have blocked some telecommunications mergers or have
required concessions that reduced projected cost savings.  The German transaction, which the companies plan to
complete in mid-2014, will result in cost savings and revenue
synergies of 5 billion euros to 5.5 billion euros, the carriers
said last month.  Two Weeks  The Bonn-based telecommunications regulator will examine
the proposal and has asked the companies to provide information
within two weeks, according to the letter dated July 25. The
agency will have to review whether the frequencies will still be
“efficiently used” and whether the combination would hamper
competition, Henseler-Unger wrote. The agency also plans to seek
comments from competitors, she said.  KPN  fell  0.9 percent to 1.98 euros at 12:33 p.m. Amsterdam
time. Telefonica gained 0.1 percent to 10.87 euros in  Madrid ,
while shares of the German unit  added  0.3 percent in  Frankfurt .  Telefonica Deutschland has “always said it seeks a swift
clearance” of the deal from the relevant regulators, company
spokesman Albert Fetsch said by telephone. The unit expects to
successfully conclude talks with the Federal Network Agency in
the next months, he said.  Antitrust Scrutiny  “We have immediately started talks with the relevant
authorities as soon as the plan became public, but at this stage
it is way too early to comment on who might do what under which
circumstances,” Guido Heitmann, a spokesman for E-Plus, said by
telephone. “The talks are only at the beginning.”  E-Plus and Telefonica Deutschland together would have a
customer base of more than 43 million as of March 31, surpassing
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 32.4 million and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s 37
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.
Counting wireless-service revenue, Telefonica Deutschland and E-Plus together remained smaller than Vodafone and T-Mobile.  In 2010, Telefonica, Deutsche Telekom and Vodafone bought
800 megahertz spectrum in an auction to cover rural areas with
faster long-term evolution, or LTE, connections. E-Plus didn’t
purchase that spectrum during the auction.  Telefonica and KPN also have to file for separate antitrust
approval for the merger. Both the European Commission and the
German Federal Cartel Office would be interested in reviewing a
potential merger of Telefonica Deutschland and E-Plus, a person
familiar with the matter said last year.  Germany ’s antitrust
regulator won’t in principle rule out a reduction in market
participants, another person said at the time, when KPN and
Telefonica were holding talks about a merger of the assets.  In December,  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s 1.3 billion-euro
purchase of wireless carrier Orange Austria won European Union
approval after the Hong Kong company agreed to divest spectrum
and offer network access to new rivals.  Germany’s Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung reported the
letter earlier today.  -- Editors:  Kenneth Wong , Ville Heiskanen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  