-- Global Banks in Japan Boost Profit on Abenomics, Job Cuts
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-08-05T08:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/global-banks-in-japan-boost-profit-on-abe-market-rally-job-cuts.html
Bank of America Corp.  led a fivefold
increase in profit at foreign banks’ Japan securities units last
fiscal year as they accelerated job cuts and increased fees and
commissions during the country’s stock-market rebound.  Combined net income at the Japanese units of 10 global
banks rose to 32.8 billion yen ($332 million) for the year ended
March 31 from 5.7 billion yen a year earlier, according to
regulatory filings obtained by Bloomberg News. The banks
eliminated about 1,000 Japan jobs in total over the period.  In Tokyo, the resurgence in fee income at global firms from
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is stretching into
the current year as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic
policies stimulate trading and prompt companies to raise funds.
At the same time, the world’s biggest banks have been cutting
staff to sustain profits amid stricter regulations following the
2008 global financial crisis.  “The business environment is still active, and bankers are
getting busier because their firms have reduced headcount,”
said Katsunobu Komizo, 68, president at Executive Search
Partners Co., Japan’s biggest recruiter focusing on banks.
“Foreign firms can make the most of their global presence for
equity underwriting and advising on cross-border acquisitions.
There’s more room for growth.”  Job Cuts  Combined headcount at the Japanese brokerage units of Bank
of America, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  fell to 6,551 from 7,564,
according to their statements filed to the Financial Services
Agency by July 31. That’s a 13 percent reduction, steeper than
the previous year’s 7.8 percent cut.  Net income at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch Japan
Securities Co. unit climbed to 44.8 billion yen from 5.1 billion
yen a year earlier, its FSA filing showed. That made it the
biggest earner among the 10 firms. Trading profit increased 68
percent and fees from investment banking, including mergers
advisory, rose 58 percent.  Personnel costs at the unit fell 23 percent. It employed
842 staff as of March, down 186 from a year earlier, according
to the filing. Merrill Lynch Japan also earned about 35 billion
yen from the sale of a stake in its private banking business to
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)   Topix Rally  Japan’s benchmark  Topix Index (TPX)  climbed 21 percent last
fiscal year and has gained another 15 percent since March as
unprecedented monetary easing weakens the yen, boosting
exporters’ profits.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  said last week that
quarterly net income almost doubled and it plans to increase
capital spending and research and development by 10 percent.  “It’s clear that Japanese companies’ earnings are
recovering, thanks to the weaker yen and broader market
upturn,” Takeo Kusunose, head of investment banking in Japan at
Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch, said in an interview in Tokyo
today. “But some uncertainty remains as to whether this
recovery will be sustained over the medium to long term.”  Revenue at Goldman Sachs’s  Japan  brokerage rose 5 percent
to 77.7 billion yen last year, while net income slipped 11
percent to 4.2 billion yen. The U.S. bank’s ranking for managing
Japanese share sales has climbed from eighth last year to No. 3
in 2013, trailing only  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  and  Daiwa Securities
Group Inc. (8601) , Japan’s two biggest securities firms, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Solid Growth  “Our businesses in Japan are continuing to show solid
growth on the back of a pickup in corporate financing demand and
the sharp increase in client trading activity we’ve been seeing
since last year,” Masanori Mochida, president of Goldman Sachs
in Japan, said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News.  Profit at  Deutsche Bank ’s local securities unit climbed 39
percent to 6.4 billion yen.  JPMorgan (JPM)  posted net income of 4.7
billion yen, compared with a loss of 8.8 billion yen a year
earlier. Barclays’s profit rose 5.5 percent to 5.8 billion yen.  “In the first half, we have exceeded all our targets and
expectations across all of our markets businesses,” Tamio Honma, head of the institutional client group at Deutsche
Securities Inc. in Tokyo, said in an e-mail. “Equities
performance has been particularly strong.”  Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.’s profit declined 4
percent to 33.2 billion yen from a year earlier. Revenue fell 13
percent to 106.2 billion yen, which is still the biggest amount
among the 10 overseas banks.  Not all the banks were profitable last year. UBS had a loss
of 55.9 billion yen, compared with a 2.8 billion yen profit a
year earlier. BNP Paribas’s loss narrowed to 8.2 billion yen
from 8.8 billion yen, while Credit Suisse’s loss widened to 3.2
billion yen from 219 million yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  