-- GM to Toyota Win A$200 Million in Australia Pre-Poll Funds
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-08-05T08:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/gm-to-toyota-win-a-200-million-in-australia-pre-election-funding.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s Australian units will be able to tap a A$200 million
($178 million) state fund as the country’s government heads into
a Sept. 7 election amid  rising unemployment .  New measures will increase fleet sales to Australian
federal and local governments of about 18,000 vehicles a year,
industry minister  Kim Carr  said in an interview today on  Sky
News .  Australia ’s Labor government, counting on support from
unionized car workers, wants to highlight its differences with
an opposition that plans to  cut funding  for the industry.  “We need to take steps to stimulate demand for Australian-made cars,” Carr said today. “This election is the year in
which we decide, ‘Do we want an automotive industry in
Australia’.”  Toyota, the country’s largest car exporter, said in a
statement it will spend  A$123 million  on its own plant and
suppliers thanks to A$29 million of funding from Australia’s
federal government and an unspecified amount from Victoria
state. The company and GM’s Holden unit have cut jobs over the
past two years amid export pressure from a strong Australian
dollar, the reduction of import tariffs and declining demand for
the large cars in which local carmakers specialize.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , which will also be eligible for the funding
along with Toyota, GM and suppliers to the three local car
manufacturers, said in May that it would stop making cars in
Australia in 2016 after nine decades as it was no longer viable
to manufacture in the country.  Industry production numbers were the lowest since 1957,
Carr said today, adding that the measures could increase
business fleet sales by as many as 66,000 cars over two years.  Sales of locally-produced cars in the first seven months of
the year fell 21 percent from a year earlier to 62,825 vehicles,
just 9.5 percent of the market, according to data released today
by the country’s Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  