-- Goldman Loses Top Brazil Executives as Growth Plan Halted
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-08-05T15:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/goldman-loses-top-brazil-executives-as-growth-plan-halted.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the U.S.
bank that announced plans in April to hire 50 people in Brazil,
has reversed course after the economy expanded less than
analysts estimated and top executives left the company.  “The outlook for the economy and equity and merger-and-acquisition deal volumes are worse than we expected,”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for the New York-based bank, said in an
interview on Aug. 2.  Brazil’s benchmark  Ibovespa index  has lost 13 percent since
the start of April and more than 20 percent this year. Foreign
banks from Zurich-based UBS AG to London-based Barclays Plc have
been reducing staff in Brazil as the  investment-banking  business
shrinks and competition from local lenders intensifies. Merger
volume fell to a six-year low this year through July.  About a quarter of Goldman Sachs’s roughly 45-person Brazil
investment-banking division have left, people familiar with the
matter said, asking not to be identified because the bank hasn’t
announced the departures. Five managing directors, four from the
eight-person executive committee, are no longer at the firm, the
people said. All of the executive-committee members have been
replaced, one of the people said.  DuVally, who said he couldn’t comment on individuals who
have left the firm, said Goldman Sachs reduced its workforce in
Brazil by about 2 percent by not replacing some employees who
departed. The bank is also subleasing one of the four floors of
a  Sao Paulo  office building it moved into in April, he said.  Changing Markets  “It would be irresponsible not to take account of changing
market conditions in assessing appropriate staffing levels,”
DuVally said in an e-mailed statement.  Goldman Sachs President  Gary Cohn  said in an interview on
April 3 that the bank would hire 50 people this year in Brazil,
boosting the workforce that totaled more than 300 at the time.
Cohn said the bank would also increase investment-banking
coverage of companies there to 300 from 200.  “While overall headcount will remain modestly down from
the beginning of the year, we continue to work with executive
search firms to identify top talent in Brazil for key seats
across the business,” DuVally said.  Executive committee members who left were Adriano Piccinin,
managing director and head of fixed income; Roberto Belchior,
managing director and head of the legal department; and
Gabriella Antici, managing director, chief investment officer
and head of international asset management, the people said.
Belchior is now legal director for  BM&FBovespa SA. (BVMF3)   Wainstein’s Departure  Goldman Sachs, which doesn’t disclose Brazil revenue or
profit, said in March that Fabio Bicudo and Antonio Pereira
would become co-heads of investment banking for the country
after Daniel Wainstein, one of only two Goldman Sachs partners
who are Brazilian, had left. Wainstein was also on the executive
committee.  Cassius Leal, managing director and head of equity
derivatives trading, also departed as did his team, the people
said. Santiago Rubin, a managing director in investment banking,
was transfered to  New York , two of the people said.  None of the people immediately returned e-mails seeking
comment on their departures.  Cohn, 52, also said in April that Goldman Sachs would
aggressively hire employees for the  Brazil  private-wealth
business. The bank said in October it would double capital in
Brazil to 800 million reais ($348 million) while closing its
local asset-management business in the country.  Goldman Sachs ranks seventh among M&A advisers this year in
Brazil and 13th among equity underwriters, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil Strategy  Goldman Sachs completed its strategy to become a full-service bank in Brazil in 2009, after two failed attempts to buy
local firms. In 1998, Goldman Sachs tried to buy Banco de
Investimentos Garantia SA, which was acquired by Credit Suisse
Group AG.  Seven years later it sought to purchase Banco Pactual SA,
an investment bank eventually acquired by UBS AG. Pactual was
sold back to BTG Partners in 2009 and is now  Banco BTG Pactual
SA. (BPAC3)  BTG went public last year in a $1.94 billion initial
offering that Goldman Sachs helped underwrite.  UBS, the biggest Swiss bank, fired as many as 60 employees
in Brazil, three people with direct knowledge of the matter said
in April. Barclays, Britain’s second-largest bank, closed its
Brazil equity-research unit and cut staff there, two people
familiar with the matter said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  