-- Greek Government Focused on Surplus, Stournaras Says
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-08-05T09:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/greek-government-focused-on-surplus-stournaras-says.html
The Greek government is more
concerned with producing a primary budget surplus this year and
returning to growth from the beginning of 2014 than on how to
fill holes in its financing over the next years, Finance
Minister Yannis Stournaras said.  Achieving these targets will be the “catalyst” to solve
the problem of  Greece ’s financing gap, Stournaras said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with Francine Lacqua and Guy Johnson today. He reiterated that according to a
November agreement of euro area finance chiefs, Greece’s
creditors would address the issue of its funding needs as long
as Greece achieves a budget surplus before interest payments.  “There is no Plan B, everything has been agreed with the
euro group,” Stournaras said. “What we’re trying to do now is
to produce a primary surplus this year, complete these
structural reforms and come back to positive growth rates. If we
achieve these, then the rest of our problems will be solved.”  Greece is in the sixth year of a recession deepened by
spending cuts and tax increases linked to a 240 billion-euro
($319 billion) bailout from the euro area and International
Monetary Fund. The unemployment rate reached a record 27.4
percent in the first quarter. Joblessness has more than doubled
since bailout funds started flowing in May 2010.  Funding Gap  IMF staff said in a report last week that Greece will
probably need more money and debt relief to meet the aid
program’s targets. The fund’s staff said 4.4 billion euros of
financing has yet to be identified next year under the rescue
package.  “Up to August 2014 Greece is fully covered,” Stournaras
said. “For the remaining period the understanding is that if
Greece satisfies all the preconditions then our partners will
agree to cover the financing gap, so this is not a great concern
to us.”  While Stournaras ruled out closing the gap through further
budget tightening, he said the government is focusing on
improving tax collection mechanisms. Implementation of the terms
of the bailout program is priority and the government will meet
its revised 1.6 billion-euro target for state-asset sales, he
said.  “Further austerity is not a solution to the problem,”
Stournaras said. “Now our concern is how to combine further
fiscal adjustment with a return to growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  