-- Green Mountain, CME, Apple, P&G, Trucking: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-08-05T12:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/green-mountain-cme-apple-p-g-trucking-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued a former  Green Mountain  Coffee Roasters
employee, claiming he repeatedly obtained quarterly earnings
data and traded in advance of its public release.  Chad McGinnis, who worked as a systems administrator at
Vermont-based Green Mountain, bought the company’s securities --
typically out-of-the-money options -- shortly before earnings
announcements, the SEC said in a statement Aug. 2. He also
tipped Sergey Pugach, a longtime friend and business associate,
who was also accused of illegal trading, the SEC said.  The two men reaped $7 million in illegal profit by using
the inside information from earnings announcements since 2010,
according to the complaint filed in federal court in
Connecticut.  “McGinnis and Pugach exploited confidential company
financial data to conduct their insider trading scheme to the
detriment of Green Mountain Coffee and its shareholders,” said
Donald Hoerl, director of the SEC’s Denver office. “The timing
of their trades was consistently and exceptionally successful,
but their scheme ultimately was not.”  In a statement, Brian Kelley, Green Mountain’s president
and chief executive officer, said the company is “appalled at
the alleged actions of this individual.” He said Green Mountain
had “no reason to believe anyone else associated with the
company was involved.”  The SEC complaint was filed under seal on July 24, when the
court granted a motion seeking a temporary restraining order and
an asset freeze, the agency said.  McGinnis is represented by Michael English, an attorney at
Finn Dixon & Herling LLP in Stamford, Connecticut, who declined
to comment.  Pugach is represented by Alan Sobol of Pullman & Comley LLC
in Hartford, Connecticut. When reached by phone Aug. 2, Sobol
said because the complaint had just been unsealed, he wanted to
“review the pleadings before” before making a statement.  A hearing is set for Aug. 7.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. McGinnis,
13-cv-01047, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut (New
Haven).  Compliance Action  CME Must Improve Surveillance of Derivatives Trades, CFTC Says  CME Group (CME)  Inc., owner of the world’s largest futures
exchange, must improve surveillance of transactions on its
systems and require traders to keep better records, the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission said.  CME, which is also a self-regulatory organization, had
inadequate systems to oversee trades that result in an exchange
for a related cash or derivative position, the Washington-based
CFTC said in a 75-page enforcement review released Aug. 2.  “An improved and robust program is necessary,” the agency
said. Chicago-based CME should require all firms that clear the
trades to have a “more robust audit process,” it said.  Many of the CFTC’s recommendations have already been
implemented, according to Laurie Bischel, a spokeswoman for CME.  “We are committed to ensuring fair, well-regulated markets
for all of our customers and are continually working to enhance
the oversight of our markets,” Bischel said in an e-mail
statement.  For more, click here.  Issa Subpoenas Treasury for IRS Documents in Tea Party Probe  House Oversight Committee Chairman  Darrell Issa  sent a
subpoena for U.S. Internal Revenue Service documents to the
Treasury secretary, saying he thinks the agency’s chief
counsel’s office is compromised.  The IRS hasn’t been forthcoming in responding to committee
requests for documents related to the agency’s scrutiny of Tea
Party groups seeking tax exemptions, Issa, a California
Republican, said Aug. 2. He spoke at a hearing of a subcommittee
of his panel in Washington and issued  the subpoena  afterward.  “You are slow-rolling us,” Issa told acting IRS
Commissioner Danny Werfel.  “That’s not true,” Werfel responded.  Issa’s move escalates the confrontation between Republicans
and the administration over the IRS, which apologized in May for
applying tougher scrutiny to Tea Party groups applying for tax-exempt status.  At least four IRS officials have lost their positions.
Seven congressional committees have opened inquiries into the
IRS, requesting internal documents that would help explain how
and why the agency scrutinized Tea Party groups.  For more, click here.  Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Cooperate With DOJ Derivatives Inquiry  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said they’re cooperating
with the U.S. Justice Department’s four-year-old antitrust probe
into the credit-default swaps market.  The two firms were among more than a dozen financial
institutions accused by the European Union last month of
colluding to curb competition in credit derivatives.  “The company and others have also responded to an ongoing
investigation by the antitrust division of the United States
Department of Justice related to the CDS market,” Morgan
Stanley, owner of the world’s largest brokerage, said Aug. 2 in
a quarterly  filing .  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said in a
quarterly  filing  that it had responded to civil investigative
demands from the DOJ’s antitrust division “concerning potential
anticompetitive conduct in the CDS industry” in July 2009 and
in September 2011. Spokesmen for both New York-based companies
declined to comment.  The Justice Department sent civil investigative notices in
July 2009 to banks that own London-based Markit Group Ltd., a
provider of data on derivatives and bonds, to find out if they
had unfair access to price information, three people familiar
with the matter said at the time. Bloomberg LP, the owner of
Bloomberg News, competes with Markit in selling information to
the financial-services industry.  Markit’s shareholders included JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank
of America Corp., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , according to filings with the U.K.’s Companies
House at the time.  The investigation widened last year to include other
companies in the credit-default swap market, people familiar
with the matter said in May 2012.  In the Courts  Apple Calls U.S. Proposal for E-Books Court Order Draconian  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  called a U.S. Justice Department proposal for a
court order regulating the company’s sales of electronic books
“draconian and punitive.”  The federal government and 33 states submitted the proposal
Aug. 2 in U.S. District Court in Manhattan. They asked the judge
who ruled that Apple conspired to fix prices of e-books to order
the company to cancel existing agreements with five publishers.
The proposal also called for the court to appoint someone to
monitor antitrust compliance at Apple.  “Plaintiffs’ proposed injunction is a draconian and
punitive intrusion into Apple’s business, wildly out of
proportion to any adjudicated wrongdoing or potential harm,”
Apple responded in a court filing hours after the government’s.  The proposal would require Apple to find a new way to do
business with publishers, and may affect its sale of music and
filmed media as well.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote, after a nonjury trial in
Manhattan, ruled July 10 against Apple. The company, based in
Cupertino, California, now faces another trial on damages.  The proposal submitted on Friday needs court approval to
become effective. A hearing is scheduled for Aug. 9.  “Under the department’s proposed order, Apple’s illegal
conduct will cease and Apple and its senior executives will be
prevented from conspiring to thwart competition in the future,”
Bill Baer, the assistant attorney general in charge of the
antitrust division, said in a statement.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Trucking Industry Loses Challenge to U.S. Drive-Time Limits  U.S. Transportation Department regulations meant to ensure
truck drivers get more rest were mostly upheld by a federal
appeals court, a defeat for companies that said the rules would
add cost without improving highway safety.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Washington on Aug. 2  rejected  most arguments made by the
American Trucking Associations Inc. as “highly technical points
best left to the agency.” The court, however, vacated a 30-minute rest requirement for short-haul truck drivers.  The ruling caps 14 years of wrangling among the trucking
industry, safety advocates and regulators over drive-time
restrictions that led to two previous challenges before the
appellate court. The court also ruled against groups including
Public Citizen and the Truck Safety Coalition that said the
rules didn’t go far enough.  Longer rest breaks and the need to redesign routes may
reduce productivity by 3 percent, translating into $18 billion
in additional costs to the trucking industry annually, according
to freight data and forecasting firm FTR Associates.  Regulators said they weighed industry costs against
billions of dollars in health-care savings and reduced accidents
in a profession that has more on-the-job deaths than any other
in the U.S.  The Arlington, Virginia-based American Trucking
Associations is disappointed in the court’s “unlimited
deference” to the administration’s analysis in supporting the
regulation, Dave Osiecki, the group’s senior vice president of
policy and regulatory affairs, said in a statement.  The court’s decision will allow the industry to improve
safety by reducing driver fatigue, a leading factor in truck
crashes, said Duane DeBruyne, a FMCSA spokesman, in a statement.  The case is American Trucking Associations Inc. v. FMCSA,
12-01092, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
(Washington).  For more, click here.  P&G Pampers Class-Action Settlement Undone by Appeals Court  A  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  settlement of a consumer lawsuit
over its Pampers “Dry Max” diapers was overturned by a U.S.
appeals court that called the relief afforded to most customers
“illusory.”  The Cincinnati-based panel’s 2-1 ruling Aug. 2 canceled a
2011 agreement it said gave named plaintiffs $1,000 per affected
child, class counsel $2.73 million, “and provides the unnamed
class members with nothing but nearly worthless injunctive
relief.”  The litigation began in 2010 after complaints that the
diapers tended to cause a severe rash. The U.S. Consumer Product
Safety Commission and a Canadian agency found no connection
between the product and the rash after reviewing 4,700 cases,
the appeals court said.  The litigants still fashioned a settlement that barred
class members from opting out or from being able to participate
in any future group suit against Procter & Gamble, entitled them
to a one-box purchase price refund provided they could produce
an original receipt and required the company to make temporary
changes to its product packaging and website.  An objector, Daniel Greenberg, appealed.  “The relief that this settlement provides to unnamed class
members is illusory,” U.S. Circuit Judge Raymond Kethledge
said. “But one fact about this settlement is concrete and
indisputable: $2.73 million is $2.73 million.”  U.S. Circuit Judge R. Guy Cole dissented, saying that while
the consumers’ recovery may not have been worth much, their
claims were worth even less.  “In the absence of this settlement, class members would
have almost certainly gotten nothing,” Cole said.  Greenberg’s attorney, Adam Schulman of the Washington-based
Center for Class Action Fairness LLC, didn’t immediately reply
to a voice-mail message seeking comment. Plaintiffs’ attorney
Lynn Sarko, of Seattle-based Keller Rohrback LLP, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  Paul Fox, a spokesman for Cincinnati-based P&G, said he
couldn’t immediately comment on the court’s decision.  The case is In re Dry Max Pampers Litigation, 11-4156, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit (Cincinnati).  Tourre Juror Says SEC’s Evidence Held Sway With Panel  Former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Vice President  Fabrice
Tourre  was seen as likable, unbelievable and “a bit shady,”
said one of the jurors who found him liable for fraud in a
failed $1 billion investment.  Beverly Rhett, a retired special-education teacher who
lives in the Bronx, New York, said the panel quickly agreed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission that Tourre should have
disclosed Paulson & Co., the hedge fund owned by billionaire
 John Paulson , helped structure the “Abacus” deal with the
intention that the assets behind it would fail.  Tourre was found liable Aug. 1 in Manhattan federal court
on six of seven claims filed against him by the SEC, and faces
unspecified penalties and disgorgement that U.S. District Judge
Katherine Forrest said will be determined later, with filings
due later this month.  The key to the verdict, the juror said, was the government
evidence, including documents and e-mails, that showed Tourre’s
alleged duplicity. The nine jurors delivered their verdict on
the second day of deliberations, giving a victory to the SEC in
one of the most prominent trials to grow out of the 2007-2008
financial crisis.  Tourre, 34, also faces a possible ban from the securities
industry.  Rhett said she and the others had a hard time at first
following some of the specialized Wall Street language that the
lawyers and witnesses were using. At times, some of the jurors
looked bored, distracted and drowsy.  “I think it was too much information -- information
overload for someone that’s not in that field,” she said.  That changed over the course of the two-week trial.  “By the end, we had people who sounded like experts” on
the transaction, she said of her fellow jurors.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Halliburton, Schlumberger Sued Over Fracking Price-Fixing Claims  Halliburton Co. (HAL) ,  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) 
were sued over claims they conspired to raise prices and crush
oilfield service competitors in the booming U.S. market for
hydraulic fracturing services.  The allegations against units of the companies are pegged
to the U.S. Justice Department’s July 25 announcement that it’s
investigating the “possibility of anticompetitive practices”
in the hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, sector of the oilfield
services industry, according to the proposed class-action, or
group suit, filed in federal court in Corpus Christi, Texas.  The suit, filed on July 31, seeks unspecified damages.  The three companies jointly control about 60 percent of the
U.S. market, according to the suit. Cherry Canyon Resources LP,
a Texas oil and gas partnership, sued on behalf of all customers
who bought fracking services from the defendants since May 29,
2011.  Halliburton and Baker Hughes, both based in Houston,
disclosed they are targets of the federal investigation within
hours of the Justice Department’s announcement. Schlumberger,
based in Houston and Paris, hasn’t publicly disclosed whether
it’s a target.  The case is Cherry Canyon Resources LP v. Halliburton Co.,
2:13-cv-00238, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Corpus Christi).  Goldman Sachs, London Exchange Sued Over Aluminum Supply Claims  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and the London Metal Exchange are
restraining aluminum supplies and driving up the metal’s price
in violation of federal antitrust law, according to a lawsuit.  The suit, for which the aluminum products company  Superior
Extrusion  seeks class-action status, was filed Aug. 1 in federal
court in Detroit.  “Through an interconnected series of agreements in
unreasonable restraint of trade, Goldman and LME restrained
approximately 1.5 million tons of aluminum in LME Detroit
warehousing,” causing delays of as long as 16 months between
customer orders and corresponding deliveries, Gwinn, Michigan-based Superior alleged.  Buyers in Michigan, Ohio, Illinois and elsewhere in the
U.S. Midwest suffered harm in the form of inflated prices,
according to the complaint. The plaintiffs asked for an order
barring the practice and money damages tripled under U.S.
antitrust law.  “We believe the suit is without merit and will contest it
vigorously,”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based
Goldman, said Aug. 2 in a phone interview. The market price for
the metal has fallen about 40 percent since 2006, he said.  Chris Evans , a spokesman for the LME in London, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail after regular business hours
seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Superior Extrusion Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., 13-cv-13315, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Michigan (Detroit).  For more, click here.  News  Apple Can Keep Selling IPhone 4 After Reprieve From U.S.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s patent-infringement victory over
Apple Inc. turned hollow after President Barack Obama’s
administration overturned an order barring shipments of some
older iPhone models into the U.S.  U.S. Trade Representative  Michael Froman , designated by
Obama to review the case, on Aug. 3 said a ban on versions of
the iPhone 4 and iPad 2 3G was unwarranted, based on his
consideration of public-policy issues regarding patents on
fundamental technology for mobile devices.  It was the first time the executive branch has overturned
an import ban ordered by the U.S. International Trade Commission
since 1987, when President  Ronald Reagan  did so in a case
involving Samsung computer-memory chips. The dispute is the
latest in a series of spats between the world’s two biggest
smartphone vendors, underscoring their battle for dominance of a
market that was worth $293.9 billion last year  “We applaud the administration for standing up for
innovation in this landmark case,” Apple spokeswoman  Kristin Huguet  said in an interview. “Samsung was wrong to abuse the
patent system in this way.”  Samsung is “disappointed” the ITC decision was
overturned, Nam Ki Yung, a spokesman at the company’s
headquarters in Seoul, said yesterday in a mobile-phone text
message. “The ITC’s decision correctly recognized that Samsung
has been negotiating a license in good faith and that Apple
remains unwilling to take a license.”  The Apple case against Samsung is In the Matter of
Electronic Digital Media Devices, 337-796, and Samsung’s case is
In the Matter of Electronic Devices, Including Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, and Tablet Computers, 337-794, both U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York
at   erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 