-- GSK, Urban Outfitters, Craigslist: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-08-05T10:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/gsk-urban-outfitters-craigslist-intellectual-property.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  lost Indian
patent protection for its Tykerb cancer drug, the International
Business Times reported.  India ’s Intellectual Property Appellate Board did uphold a
patent on lapatinib, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in the
drug, the newspaper reported.  The pharmaceutical company said in a statement it was
“disappointed in the ruling, which does not affect patents
covering the product in other countries, according to the Times.  A spokesman for GlaxoSmithKline told the newspaper that
while the company is evaluating the ruling, it will consider
taking additional steps in India in efforts to validate the
patent.  Senate Confirms F. Scott Kieff for U.S. Trade Commission Seat  The U.S. Senate has  confirmed  the appointment of F. Scott
Kieff to the U.S. International Trade Commission, the
Washington-based agency with the power to exclude imports that
infringe U.S. intellectual property rights.  Kieff was nominated by President  Barack Obama  in February.
He will be bringing a level of patent expertise to a body that
has been growing in importance in the battles over such high-technology products as mobile telephones.  In recent months the ITC has been asked to consider
disputes over smartphones, laundry and cleaning products, heavy
cranes, tablet computers, toner cartridges, miniature
microphones, polymers used in paint, and video game systems.
While in most cases those who go to the ITC have claimed their
patents are infringed, in June a petitioner sought to have a
children’s television program excluded on the grounds that it
infringed his copyrights.  Kieff is presently a professor at George Washington
University and a fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover
Institution, where he directs the Project on Commercializing
Innovation and served on the Property Rights Task Force. He is
also a faculty member at the Munich Intellectual Property Law
Center at  Germany ’s Max Planck Institute, and previously was a
faculty fellow Olin Program on Law and Economics at Harvard
University.  Additionally he was a professor at the Washington
University in Saint Louis School of Law with a secondary
appointment in the School of Medicine’s Department of
Neurological Surgery.  Kieff was a judicial clerk to Judge Giles S. Rich of the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, the Washington-based case that hears appeals of patent dispute. Kieff has also
served as a mediator in that court’s appellate mediation
program. Additionally, he was a member of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office’s Patent Public Advisory Committee from 2009 to
2010.  Before he became a professor, Kieff practiced at  Chicago ’s
Jenner & Block LLP and at New York’s now defunct Pennie &
Edmonds.  Kieff has an undergraduate degree from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and a law degree from the University of
 Pennsylvania .  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Urban Outfitters, Navajo Nation Say Trademark Mediation Failed  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN) , the lifestyle specialty retailer
based in Philadelphia, and the  Navajo Nation  failed to resolve
their trademark dispute that was sent out for mediation by a
federal court in New Mexico.  The retailer was sued in March 2012 by the Navajo nation,
the  largest Native American tribe  in the U.S. The suit was
related to the retailer’s use of ‘‘Navajo” in connection with
products it sold.  The Navajo Nation sent Urban Outfitters a cease-and-desist
letter objecting to the use of the word “Navajo” on underwear
and the sale of a flask wrapped in what was described as
“Navajo Print Fabric.” The nation complained that the use of
the word on underwear offended the tribe’s spiritual beliefs
about modesty, and calling a flask “Navajo” was insensitive,
given the ban on the sale and consumption of alcohol on the
reservation.  Other items to which the Navajo Nation objected included an
“Unknown Techno Navajo Quilt Oversized Crop Tee” and a “Truly
Madly Deeply Navajo Print Tunic,” according to court papers.  In September 2012 Urban Outfitters sought, unsuccessfully,
to have the case moved from federal court in New Mexico to
Philadelphia. The retailer argued that the New Mexico court was
inconvenient for everyone, including the Navajo Nation, which is
headquartered in Window Rock,  Arizona .  Additionally, Urban Outfitters had argued that the
Philadelphia court was “particularly well-versed in
intellectual property matters,” and that the case would be
disposed of more expeditiously in Pennsylvania.  In January, U.S. District Judge C. LeRoy Hansen rejected
Urban Outfitters’ arguments, saying the transfer would only
shift the inconvenience from the Urban Outfitters to the Navajo
Nation. He also took exception to the retailer’s argument that
the Philadelphia court was more experienced in IP disputes,
saying “all federal courts are presumed to be equally
competent” in federal-question cases.  The case was then sent out for mediation. According to a
joint filing by the Navajo Nation and Urban Outfitters, the
parties participated in a mediation July 17 conducted by
Professor Eric D. Green of Resolutions LLC.  The mediation was unsuccessful and no further sessions were
scheduled, according to the filing.  As a result, pretrial events are scheduled throughout 2014,
with the trial set for some time after May 1 2015, according to
an Aug. 2 joint filing.  The case is Navajo Nation v. Urban Outfitters Inc., 1:12-cv-00195-LH-WDS, U.S. District Court, District of New Mexico
( Albuquerque ).  Craigslist Can’t Register Peace Sign as Trademark, Board Says  Craigslist, the San Francisco-based company offering a free
online classified-advertising service, has lost its bid to
register the peace sign as a trademark, according to the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office.  The San Francisco company had filed three applications in
March 2010 to register the peace sign for use with its ad
services, online computer databases and interactive bulletin
boards.  The  symbol  they sought to register was created in 1958 by
British designer Gerald Holtom, for use by the  Campaign for
Nuclear Disarmament . The symbol -- a circle containing a
vertical element bisected by an inverted letter V -- was based
on the semaphore symbols for the letters N and D, standing for
nuclear disarmament.  In subsequent years it has been used in the U.S. by those
opposed to the wars in Vietnam, Iraq and  Afghanistan .  Patent Office officials rejected the registration, and
issued a second rejection after closely held Craigslist tried to
limit its application to cover only purple-colored
representations of the peace sign.  In an opinion by the patent office’s Trademark and Trial
Appeal Board, the board said that adding the color purple did
nothing to render the mark distinctive.  “We find that the purple color claim is not sufficiently
distinctive to transform the universal peace symbol into an
inherently distinctive mark, even as to the applicant’s specific
services,” the board said.  The board found that the peace sign is a “universal symbol
that retains its message in all context.” As a result, it
“fails to function as a mark.”  Time Square’s ‘Naked Cowgirl’ Says She’ll Seek to Register Mark  A former stripper who appears in a bikini in New York’s
Times Square says she will apply to register “Naked Cowgirl”
as a U.S. trademark, the New York Post  reports .  Sandy Kane , who had previously been sued for trademark
infringement by her fellow Times Square performer,  Naked Cowboy
Robert Burck , told the Post that Burck’s use of bikini-clad
women in his act is confusing the public.  Although Burck eventually authorized Kane to use “Naked
Cowgirl” in connection with her own name, the performer says
she thinks the women performing with him are “an insult to the
guitar,” according to the newspaper.  Both performers are having to deal with a newcomer, “Naked
Indian” Adam David, who first showed up in Times Square in
2012, the Post reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Fox News Network Sued TVEyes for Infringing Programs’ Copyrights  Fox News Network LLC sued a television subscription service
for copyright infringement.  According to the complaint filed July 39 in federal court
in New York, TVEyes Inc. is accused of copying the networks
proprietary programming and making it available for a fee to
Internet users.  Fairfield, Connecticut-based TVEyes’ Media Monitoring Suit
service is sold in a subscription basis, according to court
papers. This is the service that Fox claims is giving Internet
users unlicensed access to its news programming.  The news service claims that it was contacted by TVEyes
seeking a license for Fox content. After Fox News Network
refused to grant the license, TVEyes used the content without
permission, the company said in its pleadings.  Because Fox has demanded “on multiple occasions” that
TVEyes cease its unauthorized use of the programming, the news
network says the alleged infringement is knowing, intentional
and willful.  In court papers, Fox listed the outlets to which it does
offer limited access to some of its programming, including Hulu,
Google Inc.’s YouTube, and ITN Source. The news network says it
receives revenue from each authorized website.  Fox claims TVEyes “is engaged in the parasitic business of
offering and providing to the public for a fee copies of
television programming and content created by others” for a
subscription fee of $500 a month per user.  The network also objects to the downloading of its content
TVEyes permits, and the service’s “clip editor that allows
users to create derivative works” based on the unauthorized
content.  TVEyes didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
seeking comment.  Fox asked the court to bar TVEyes’ unauthorized use of the
news network’s content, and for awards of money damages,
including extra damages to punish the Connecticut-based company
for its actions, and for attorney fees and litigation costs.  The case is Fox News Network LLC v. TVEyes Inc., 1:13-cv-05315-AKH, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  Apple Calls U.S. Proposal for E-Book Court Order Draconian  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  called the U.S. Justice Department’s proposal
for a court order regulating the company’s sale of electronic
books “draconian and punitive.”  The federal government and 33 states submitted the proposal
to in U.S. District Court in Manhattan Aug. 2. They asked the
judge who ruled that Apple conspired to fix prices of e-books to
order the company to cancel existing agreements with five
publishers.  “Plaintiffs’ proposed injunction is a draconian and
punitive intrusion into Apple’s business,” the company
responded in a court filing.  The government’s proposal would require Apple to find a new
way to do business with publishers, and might affect its sale of
music and other media as well.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote, after a nonjury trial in
Manhattan, ruled July 10 against Apple. The company, based in
Cupertino,  California , now faces another trial on damages.  The proposal submitted Aug 2 needs court approval to become
effective. A hearing is scheduled for Aug. 9.  “Under the department’s proposed order, Apple’s illegal
conduct will cease and Apple and its senior executives will be
prevented from conspiring to thwart competition in the future,”
Bill Baer, the assistant attorney general in charge of the
antitrust division, said in a statement.  The U.S. sued Apple and five of the biggest publishers in
April 2012, claiming that the technology company pushed them to
allow it to sell digital copies of their books under a model
that raised prices and harmed consumers.  The publishers -- Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck
GmbH’s  Macmillan  unit,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s  Simon & Schuster ,  Lagardere
SCA (MMB) ’s  Hachette Book Group ,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit and News
Corp.’s  HarperCollins  -- settled with the government.  Apple said in its filing that the government’s proposal to
regulate the company’s business with publishers is unnecessary
because antitrust concerns were “already remedied” by consent
decrees the publishers agreed to as part of their settlements.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  