-- Libya Es Sider Terminal Can Store Oil 20 Days Before Full
-- B y   M a r i a m   S a m i
-- 2013-08-05T16:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/libya-es-sider-terminal-can-store-oil-20-days-before-full.html
Libya’s biggest oil export terminal,
 Es Sider , can store crude for 20 more days before filling up
with production from some fields feeding storage tanks at the
port already pumping at less than a 10th of previous levels.  The port remains shut, having closed July 28 amid protests
by staff and armed guards, Ibrahim Al Awami, director of the
inspection and measurement department of the oil ministry, told
reporters at Es Sider today.  Production from Waha Oil Co., one of the companies
supplying crude to Es Sider, has dropped to 30,000 barrels a
day, from 360,000 barrels a day previously, and some wells will
need to be shut if the sit-in protest continues beyond 20 days,
Al Awami said.  Interruptions at ports and other installations across Libya
lowered  nationwide oil production  to 800,000 barrels day last
month, the least since December 2011, according to a Bloomberg
survey of output from OPEC members. The monthly average is half
of the post-revolution peak of 1.6 million barrels a day reached
exactly a year earlier, the data show.  Es Sider’s crude oil storage tank capacity has been reduced
to 4.5 million barrels, with some of that still unused. The
original capacity of 6 million barrels at 19 tanks has shrunk
because three tanks are undergoing maintenance and another was
burned down during the 2011 uprising that ousted Muammar Qaddafi.  Tankers Moored  Four  oil tankers  are moored at Es Sider, waiting to load,
Al Awami said. Three of them arrived July 31 and the fourth on
Aug. 3, according to data in the port’s control room.  Waha is 59 percent owned by Libya’s state-run National
Oil Corp., with the rest held by  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Marathon Oil
Corp. (MRO)  and  Hess Corp. (HES)  Other producers supplying crude to the port
last month were  Total SA (FP) ,  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ’s Petro-Canada and
Libya’s state-owned Arabian Gulf Oil Co.  Negotiations are underway to resolve protests at Es Sider
and two other ports, Ras Lanuf and Zueitina, Oil Minister
Abdulbari Al-Arusi said at a press conference in Tripoli earlier
today. National production was currently 700,000 barrels a day,
with an increased to 800,000 expected within the next month, the
minister said. All  oil fields  in Libya’s western region have
returned to normal, allowing an improvement in exports, Al-Arusi
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Sami in Es Sider, Libya at 
 msami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  