-- IC Gains as Nordea Says CEO to Boost Dividend: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-05T08:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/ic-gains-as-nordea-says-ceo-to-boost-dividend-copenhagen-mover.html
IC Companys A/S (IC) , Denmark’s largest
listed clothing retailer, rose in Copenhagen trading after
Nordea Bank AB said changes to IC’s top management will boost
the  dividend  yield and recommended that investors buy the stock.  IC rose as much as 2.1 percent to 145 kroner and traded at
that price at 10:32 a.m. in the Danish capital, heading for its
highest closing price since Oct. 28, 2011. Trading volume was at
78 percent of the three-month daily average.  IC’s board on July 30 said Mads Ryder will replace Chief
Executive Officer Niels Mikkelsen as the Copenhagen-based
company needs more focus on execution. Nordea today repeated a
recommendation that investors buy IC stock and increased its
share price estimate to 160 kroner from 140 kroner.  “The CEO change and better markets should enable the share
to trade more in line with its fundamental value,” Dan Kirk Wejse, a Copenhagen-based analyst at Nordea, said in a note to
clients, adding that net debt is “very low” at IC.  “Combined
with earnings growth and good  cash flow  this sets the scene for
solid cash returns in the coming years.”  IC’s dividend yield has been below the average of the
Copenhagen all-share index of 158 companies since September last
year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The company will
on Aug. 22 report fourth-quarter earnings and provide a
financial outlook for the 12 months ending June 30, 2014.  “We are convinced that underlying earnings will improve,
but new restructuring and the new CEO possibly being cautious at
first bring uncertainty to guidance,” Nordea said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  