-- Michigan Hometown to Kellogg Plans $16 Million Muni Bond Sale
-- B y   E m i l y   F r e e m a n
-- 2013-08-05T16:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/michigan-hometown-to-kellogg-plans-16-million-muni-bond-sale.html
Battle Creek ,  Michigan , home of the
world’s largest cereal-maker, plans to sell $16 million in
general-obligation bonds after at least one issuer in the state
delayed an offer following  Detroit ’s record bankruptcy filing.  The city about 120 miles (193 kilometers) west of Detroit
plans to sell the debt on Aug. 14, Moody’s Investors Service
said in a report today. Linda Morrison, the city’s finance
director, didn’t immediately return a telephone call seeking
comment.  After Detroit filed on July 18, Genesee County delayed a
$54.2 million offering last week, a sign that issuers in the
state were being penalized.  Battle Creek’s bonds have an Aa3 rating from Moody’s, the
fourth-highest level. The company revised the Cereal City’s
outlook to negative, based on the expectation that “the local
economy will continue to be relatively challenged” amid
declining property values and elevated unemployment.  Moody’s also cited stable reserve levels as a strength for
the municipality of 52,000, where  Kellogg Co. (K)  has its
headquarters.  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market have
speculated Detroit’s treatment of its general-obligation debt
could set a precedent in Michigan and nationwide. The June plan
from Detroit Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr to avoid bankruptcy
proposed imposing losses on holders of some Detroit general
obligations.  Investors have demanded higher  interest rates  to own
Michigan debt in the past month.  The extra yield buyers require to own 10-year general-obligation securities sold by Michigan rather than top-rated
debt rose to 0.44 percentage point on Aug. 2, the most since
July 12, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Battle Creek general obligations maturing in September 2021
yielded about 3.11 percent on average in trading July 31, or
about 0.64 percentage point more than benchmark debt, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the slimmest gap since March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Freeman in  New York  at 
 efreeman14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  