-- Higher Interest Rates to Follow Fed Taper, SocGen’s Juckes Says
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-08-05T15:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/higher-interest-rates-to-follow-fed-taper-socgen-s-juckes-says.html
Interest rates  will move higher later
this year as the  Federal Reserve  initiates an end to five years
of bond buying, according to Kit Juckes of  Societe Generale  SA.  “We can see what happens when we get the next labor market
report, what happens when the Fed announces it is doing
tapering, and then we can move to another higher range through
the fall,” Juckes, a global strategist at Societe Generale,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Surveillance” with
 Tom Keene .  Societe Generale forecasts a fourth-quarter 10-year note
yield of 3.25 percent, a level not seen since May 2011. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  will begin a two-day meeting on
Sept. 17, when economists predict the Fed will announce the
dialing back of its record bond-buying program, known as
quantitative easing.  Benchmark Treasury 10-year note yields rose four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.64 percent in New York,
Bloomberg Bond Trader data show. The yield will end the year at
2.63 percent, according to the median in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. It has averaged 3.55 percent during the past decade.  The yield on 10-year notes, a benchmark for  mortgage rates 
and company borrowing costs, has risen 46 basis points since Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 the central bank may
start dialing back its bond-buying program this year if the
economy achieves sustainable growth. Yield increases will be
limited amid a lack of inflation and Fed caution about raising
rates too quickly, Juckes said  “The markets have gotten used to the idea we’re not staying
at zero rates forever with QE forever, but we’re not going to
start even thinking about rate hikes on a one- to two-year
horizon unless the economy sees a faster pace of economic
growth,” London-based Jukes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Marshall at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  