-- Time Warner Cable Makes a-la-Carte Proposal in CBS Dispute
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-08-05T21:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/time-warner-cable-ceo-offers-a-la-carte-proposal-in-cbs-dispute.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , which blacked
out  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s networks on its cable system last week after a
breakdown in negotiations, said it’s willing to resolve the
dispute by offering CBS’s channels on an a-la-carte basis.  Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said in a letter to CBS
CEO Les Moonves that he would resume carriage of the
broadcaster’s programming if stations are made available
individually to customers. Subscribers could then choose which
channels they wanted at a separate price for each, and the money
would go directly to CBS, Britt said.  “This way, rather than our debating the point, we would
allow customers to decide for themselves how much value they
ascribe to CBS programming,” Britt said in the letter.  Time Warner Cable stopped broadcasting CBS to more than 3
million viewers in  New York ,  Los Angeles ,  Dallas  and other
markets on Aug. 2. The two sides have sparred over the fees that
CBS charges to retransmit shows over Time Warner Cable’s system,
as well as other issues, such as how content can be streamed
over the Internet.  Britt’s proposal is a “sham,” CBS said in an e-mailed
statement. “Anyone familiar with the entertainment business
knows that the economics and structure of the cable industry
doesn’t work that way and isn’t likely to for quite some time.”  CBS’s networks include the Showtime and TMC premium
channels, as well as Flix and Smithsonian, which are blocked
from Time Warner Cable customers. Time Warner Cable is still
airing the programming in parts of the country where it has
agreements with the network’s affiliated stations. CBS said it
had received Britt’s proposal today and was formulating a
response.  ‘Under the Dome’  The blackout is the first of its kind for CBS and is
expected to become more noticeable this evening during the first
prime-time weeknight. The popular “ Under the Dome ” series airs
tonight, though the potential loss of CBS’s football lineup next
month is a bigger threat, said  Brad Adgate , director of research
for media-buying agency Horizon Media Inc. in New York.  “They could ride this out for a few more weeks, but with
the start of the football and broadcast seasons, there will be
an outcry from subscribers to make a deal,” Adgate said in an
interview.  The showdown pits the most-watched network against the
second-largest cable company in the U.S. CBS is demanding $2 in
fees per subscriber per month, up from about $1, according to
two people familiar with the negotiations.  Seeking Compensation  Broadcast networks such as CBS, which offer programming
free over the air, didn’t traditionally ask for fees to transmit
their signals over cable networks. That changed in 1992 when the
Cable Television Protection and Competition Act gave the
networks the right to seek compensation from pay-TV providers.  Retransmission fees have steadily climbed since then,
though they remain lower than those for popular cable channels.
ESPN, owned by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , gets an average of $5.54 per
subscriber each month from pay-TV systems and is attracting an
average audience of 2.1 million this season, according to
Nielsen. CBS, meanwhile, is drawing 10.6 million people over the
same time period.  The talks also involve whether Time Warner Cable can
deliver CBS content online both inside and outside the home --
for instance, via tablet computers -- said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the discussions are private. Time
Warner Cable and CBS have declined to comment on the revenue at
stake in the negotiations.  Tiger Woods  Time Warner Cable subscribers affected by the blackout
missed  Tiger Woods  winning the Bridgestone Invitational by seven
strokes yesterday. The  PGA Championship , the last major
tournament of the golf season, begins in three days on CBS.
“Under the Dome,” a series based on a Stephen King book about
a mysterious force field that cuts off a small town from the
rest of the world, airs tonight at 10 p.m. New York time.  CBS has said that Time Warner Cable cut off service to gain
leverage at the bargaining table.  “There are no negotiations taking place at this time
between CBS and Time Warner Cable,” the New York-based
broadcaster said yesterday in a statement. “We remain ready to
negotiate in good faith when they are.”  Rising Costs  Britt has been a critic of rising programming costs paid by
TV distributors, and he’s attracted industry allies to his
crusade. DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite-television
provider, said this weekend it supported Time Warner Cable
“fighting back against exorbitant programming cost increases.”
DirecTV had its own standoff last year, when it dropped Viacom
Inc. networks for 10 days before reaching a $600 million deal.  “If there was ever a retrans battle for the distributor to
fight, this is the one,” said  Rich Greenfield , an analyst with
BTIG LLC in New York. “This is a unique opportunity to push
back for the subscribers.”  The two companies had extended their negotiating deadline
several times before the blackout started. Programming in some
areas was temporarily blocked on July 30 and restored about 30
minutes later after the companies agreed to keep talking.  The blackout is the first of a top broadcaster by a major
pay-TV carrier in New York, the largest U.S. TV market, since
Cablevision Systems Corp. shut down Fox for two weeks in 2010.  “We agreed to an extension on Tuesday morning with the
expectation that we would engage in a meaningful negotiation
with CBS,” Time Warner Cable said in an earlier statement.
“Since then, CBS has refused to have a productive discussion.”  Highest Price  Shares of CBS, controlled by  Sumner Redstone , fell 1.2
percent to $53.86 at the close in New York. The stock had
reached its highest price in 13 years on Aug. 1 after the
company reported an 11 percent increase in second-quarter
profit. Time Warner Cable, which has about 12 million video
customers, fell 0.6 percent to $116.42. The stock is up 20
percent this year.  As the most-watched television network, CBS ranks ahead of
Comcast Corp.’s NBC, Disney’s ABC and 21st Century Fox Inc.’s
Fox.  Time Warner Cable, based in New York, has encouraged
customers to sign up with Aereo Inc. to watch CBS. Aereo is a
startup service, backed by billionaire  Barry Diller , that sells
access to the broadcast networks online for $8 a month. Aereo,
which pays no retransmission fees to broadcasters, is currently
being sued by CBS.  Retransmission fees have become a frequent sticking point
in negotiations between pay-TV providers and broadcasters, which
historically provided their signals for free. Pay-TV operators
will spend more than $3 billion in retransmission fees this
year, according to data compiled by research firm SNL Kagan.  “CBS wants to be paid like a cable network,” Greenfield
said. “Yet you don’t see ESPN putting their content over the
air for free or on the Internet for free. They were looking for
a big step up from Time Warner Cable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  