-- Iran Proposed Oil Chief Attacked by Newspaper Close to Khamenei
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-08-05T14:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/iran-proposed-oil-chief-attacked-by-newspaper-close-to-khamenei.html
The head of an Iranian newspaper
appointed by the country’s supreme leader attacked President
Hassan Rohani’s choice of oil minister, citing “dark spots” in
his record.  Hossein Shariatmadari, who oversees the Tehran-based  Kayhan 
newspaper, accused Bijan Namdar Zanganeh of concluding a
“shameful” deal to “supply Iran’s natural gas 14 times below
current prices to foreigners.”  “Can such a person be trusted with safeguarding people’s
interest in the sensitive Ministry of Oil?” Shariatmadari wrote
in an editorial today. Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei has the final
say on all state matters in Iran.  Zanganeh served as oil minister under former president
Mohammad Khatami until 2005. In an interview with news website
Khabaronline two years ago, he denied allegations the contract
referred to by Kayhan was against national interests.  Rohani took the oath of office in parliament yesterday and
named his proposed ministers at the end of his inauguration
ceremony. His cabinet appointments must be approved by
lawmakers.  Rohani is faced with “a significant challenge” in forming
his cabinet, said Mehdi Khalaji, an  Iran  analyst at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy, a research group.  Background Checks  Rohani will attempt not to “destroy the moderate, open-minded, pro-Western image he created for himself during the
campaign,” Khalaji wrote in an emailed note on July 30. “At
the same time, he must respond to the demands of conservatives,
who control parliament, state media, and all other government
bodies” as well as Khamenei, he said.  Parliament members are reviewing the backgrounds and
qualifications of the proposed cabinet members and plan to vote
on their appointments next week, Iran’s state television
reported on its  website  today, citing Hossein Sobhaninia a
member of the legislature’s board of directors.  “People’s representatives are faced with a fateful test,”
Shariatmadari wrote. “They should show that they protect the
interests of the Islamic regime and the people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  