-- Services Expansion Points to Pickup in U.S. Growth: Economy
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-08-05T20:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/ism-non-manufacturing-index-increased-to-56-in-july-from-52-2.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
expanded in July at the fastest pace in five months,
complementing a rebound at the nation’s factories and showing
the economy is gaining traction.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
 index  increased to 56, exceeding all forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey of economists, from a more than three-year low of 52.2 in
June, a report from the Tempe, Arizona-based group showed today.  Enterprises ranging from construction companies to
retailers to financial firms reported a pickup in business that
signals the expansion is broadening. The figures follow the
group’s report last week that showed  manufacturing  advanced at
the fastest rate in more than two years and underscore the
 Federal Reserve ’s forecast for a stronger economy through year-end.  “The pickup in July wasn’t limited to the manufacturing
sector,” said  Brian Jones , senior U.S. economist at  Societe
Generale  in New York, whose forecast of 55 was the highest in
the Bloomberg survey. “We do expect growth to accelerate in the
second half of the year. We do think it’s for real.”  Readings above 50 indicate growth in the industries that
make up almost 90 percent of the economy. The  median  forecast of
the 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 53.1. Estimates
ranged from 51.5 to 55. The non-manufacturing gauge’s 3.8-point
gain from June was the biggest since February 2008.  Shares Fall  Stocks fell from record highs as investors weighed the
data. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.1 percent to
1,707.14 at the close in New York.  Treasury securities  also
dropped, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to
2.64 percent from 2.60 percent late on Aug. 2.  Another report showed a measure of job prospects climbed in
July by the most in five months. The Conference Board’s
Employment Trends Index increased 0.4 percent, the biggest gain
since February, the New York-based private research group said
today. At 112.2, the gauge reached the highest level since June
2008 and was up 4.1 percent from a year earlier.  “With economic activity remaining weak through the second
quarter, solid employment growth continues to be a positive
surprise,”  Gad Levanon , director of macroeconomic research at
the Conference Board, said in a statement. “Jobs may grow
faster in the coming quarters as the  U.S. economy  is likely to
get stronger towards the end of 2014.”  Service industries in the rest of the world are showing
signs of stabilizing. In the U.K., services growth accelerated
in July at the fastest pace in more than six years, according to
figures today from Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute
of Purchasing and Supply .  Services Globally  Euro-area services output shrank at a slower pace than
initially estimated, data from Markit Economics showed, while in
 China , an index of non-manufacturing  purchasing managers 
increased for the first time since March.  Figures last week from the ISM showed manufacturing grew in
July as orders and production surged, a sign that companies are
growing more optimistic about the economy’s prospects. The index
of manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, jumped to 55.4 from 50.9 in the prior month.  Taken together, the figures underscore the Fed’s takeaway
on the world’s largest economy. A  composite index  of the ISM’s
factory and non-manufacturing gauges rose in July to the highest
level since February 2011.  Pickup Materializing  “It’s one of the early signs that the pickup in growth
that the Fed is expecting in the second half of the year is
finally starting to materialize,” said Gennadiy Goldberg, a
U.S. strategist at TD Securities Inc. in  New York . “It suggests
to the Fed that it’s no longer just expectations, that some of
these expectations are translating into actual economic
activity.”  Policy makers said last week at the conclusion of their
two-day meeting that “economic growth will pick up from its
recent pace and the  unemployment rate  will gradually decline.”
The  Federal Open Market Committee  also said it will maintain its
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases aimed at stoking the
expansion and boosting employment.  Payrolls increased 162,000 in July, while the  unemployment
rate  declined to 7.4 percent, the lowest since December 2008,
the Labor Department reported last week.  The ISM non-manufacturing survey’s measure of new orders
increased to a five-month high, while its reading of  business
activity  was the strongest this year.  More Positive  Comments from respondents are “definitely leaning more
positive than what we’ve seen in the past few months, so it
leads me to believe that we’ll continue to see sustainable
growth,”  Anthony Nieves , chairman of ISM’s non-manufacturing
survey committee, said on a call today with reporters.  Stronger demand is helping push up  prices (SPCS20Y%)  as well. The
index of  prices paid  climbed to 60.1 from 52.5.  The rebound in home sales and residential construction is
feeding through into other parts of the economy. Sales of new
homes climbed in June to the highest level in five years. Prices
increased in May from a year earlier by the most in more than
seven years.  That’s boosting the prospects of companies such as  Caesars
Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , which has been coping with gaming industry
trends like lower visitation and casino revenues in the second
quarter.  ‘Sustained Improvement’  “With housing values rebounding, a relatively strong stock
market and a modestly improving labor market, we hope to benefit
from improving macro trends and consumer sentiment,” Chief
Executive Officer Gary Loveman, said in a July 29 conference
call. “We believe sustained improvement in the economy, of
course, has the potential to translate into higher cap spending
at our properties.”  Consumer spending  increased in June by the most in four
months, Commerce Department data last week showed. After
adjusting for inflation, purchases rose 0.1 percent, the same as
in the previous month.  Automakers are on pace for their best showing in six years
as job gains boost confidence and consumers replace older
vehicles. Cars and light trucks  sold  at a 15.6 million
annualized rate in July and 15.9 million the prior month, the
strongest back-to-back readings since late 2007, according to
figures from Ward’s Automotive Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  