-- Israel’s Gronau Needs Convincing for Another Interest Rate Cut
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-08-05T13:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/israel-s-gronau-needs-convincing-for-another-interest-rate-cut.html
 Bank of Israel Monetary Policy
Committee member Reuben Gronau said he’s skeptical that another
interest rate cut would help the economy after a series of
reductions took the measure to the lowest level since 2010.  The committee’s decision to hold the base rate in July for
a second month at 1.25 percent after two cuts in May was
unanimous, Gronau said in an interview yesterday in  Jerusalem .
It’s doubtful that the decision would have been any different
had Stanley Fischer still been governor, he said.  “I’d have to be convinced that it would really help the
economy,” Gronau said, responding to a question on the
possibility of another cut. “I’m sure other people on the
committee will tell you other things.”  Gronau is the first MPC member to signal publicly that the
time was right to put an end to the series of interest-rate cuts
that started in 2011 in a bid to moderate shekel gains and
propel the export-driven economy. The committee is headed by
Acting Governor Karnit Flug after two candidates nominated by
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to succeed Fischer pulled out
last week.  The Israeli economy may expand 3.5 percent next year from
3.2 percent in 2013, according to economists’ estimates on
Bloomberg, compared with 1 percent for the euro area. The U.S.
economy may grow 2.7 percent in 2014.  The economy is doing “quite well,” Gronau said. If the
U.S. economy improves, and Europe recovers, growth in  Israel 
will “do better,” he said.  Strongest Performer  The effect of another rate cut may be overshadowed by
investors expecting the shekel to gain as economic growth
accelerates, Gronau said. The currency has more than regained
all its losses since the central bank announced in May plans to
buy $2.1 billion in dollars by the end of the year. The shekel
has climbed 5 percent in 2013, making it the strongest performer
among the 31 leading currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Right now it’s not so clear how forex markets act,” said
Gronau. “We know there is a sentiment for an increase, for the
strengthening of the shekel because the economy is doing well
and because people believe that our foreign exchange needs are
going to diminish or have already diminished because of the
gas.”  Gronau, professor emeritus at the Hebrew University in
Jerusalem, said that the committee didn’t hold the rate at the
end of July in order to maintain “ammunition” for the next
governor. The decision was based on a continued “balancing
act” between the currency and the housing market, he said.  Fischer, 69, a former No. 2 at the International Monetary
Fund, stepped down midway through his second five-year term,
citing personal reasons.  “Most probably, if Stan Fischer had sat at the head of the
table, we would have made the same decision,” said Gronau. “I
would say a 99 percent chance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  