-- Israeli Regulation at Fault as Volumes Drop, Bronfeld Says
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-08-05T15:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/israeli-regulation-at-fault-as-volumes-drop-bronfeld-says-2-.html
Israeli regulations and slowing
economic growth are responsible for a decline in volumes and
listings on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, outgoing Chairman Saul Bronfeld said.  Bronfeld, who resigned last month, said he was forced out
of his role along with Chief Executive Officer Ester Levanon in
a move akin to a “hostile takeover.” The former chairman
called on the Finance Minister to consult with companies, banks
and investors on the reasons for the retreat in flows at the
TASE, as the bourse is known.  “The decline in volume and prices on the Tel Aviv bourse
is due to excessive regulation and the change in the pace of
economic growth, not the operations of the bourse,” Bronfeld
said in an interview at the Tel Aviv bourse’s office today. “My
resignation is a wake-up call for  Jerusalem ,” he said,
referring to the government’s headquarters.  Trading volume on the benchmark TA-25 Index has plunged
since May 2010 when  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  raised Israel’s stock market to
developed-market status from its earlier emerging-market rank.
Volume dropped 44 percent from the start of 2010 to the end
2012, compared with an 18 percent average global retreat, the
Bank of Israel said in a March 12 report. Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu’s government has initiated reforms in the
telecommunications, banking, gas and chemical industries to
boost competition in the market.  Excess Regulation  The Tel Aviv bourse has been struggling to lure Israeli
companies listed on  Nasdaq , including  SodaStream International
Ltd. (SODA)  and  Caesarstone Sdot-Yam Ltd. (CSTE) , to list in  Israel  due to the
excess regulation they would be facing, according to Bronfeld.  Sharona Mazalian Levi, a spokeswoman for the Israel
Securities Authority declined to comment. New management will
“strengthen the bourse,” the regulator’s Chairman Shmuel Hauser said last month in in response to Bronfeld’s resignation.  The benchmark TA-25 Index has gained 1.5 percent this year,
compared with a 20 percent advance for the  Standard and Poor’s
500 Index . The Tel Aviv gauge dropped for the first time in four
days, losing 0.4 percent to 1,203.65 at the close in Israel. The
Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of the largest U.S.-traded
Israeli stocks rose for a fourth day, increasing 0.2 percent to
98.06 at 10:59 a.m. in New York.  “There is no immediate danger to the Tel Aviv bourse today
but this is the time to make changes to regulation,” said
Bronfeld. “My worry is not about the coming months or year but
where the bourse will be in five to 10 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  