-- Lithuanian Lenders Shed Crisis-Era Loan Woes, Central Bank Says
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-08-05T15:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/lithuanian-lenders-shed-crisis-era-loan-woes-central-bank-says.html
Lithuania ’s banks are at the end of a
five-year effort to clean their books of bad debts and may be
set to accelerate lending again, the central bank said, citing
loan-quality statistics.  “Banks, completing recovery processes begun during the
crisis, are eliminating remaining bad loans from their financial
documents,” the Bank of Lithuania in the the capital Vilnius
said today in a report on its website. “The uncertainty about
the outlook for various sectors and lenders that arose with the
economic downturn has essentially ended.”  Since suffering the European Union’s second-worst recession
in 2009 and 2010, when output plunged by almost a quarter,
Lithuania has closed two insolvent lenders. Standard & Poor’s
Rating Services earlier this year praised the  central bank  for
the orderly shutdowns and for its work to tighten credit rules.
The Baltic nation’s economy expanded 3.6 percent in the first
half of this year.  The share of non-loans fell to 12.2 percent at July 1, from
13.1 percent at the start of the year and 19.6 percent in 2010,
according to the report on Lithuania’s seven banks and nine
branches of foreign banks. Special loan provisions shrank by 2
percent in the first quarter and a another 7 percent in the
second quarter.  With bank assets of 75.6 billion litai ($29 billion) again
approaching the pre-crisis level, the loan-deposit ratio is just
119 percent, compared with more than 200 percent in 2007, the
central bank said.  It said that during the second quarter housing loans
increased for the first time in several years and banks
increased their commitments to credit clients, “showing
potential for further growth of the loan portfolio.”  Local units of Nordic lenders SEB AB,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) ,  DNB ASA (DNB) ,
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  account for more than 80
percent of bank assets in Lithuania, a fact that S&P said in its
February report had aided the industry’s stability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  