-- Liu Is Denied Public Matching Funds in New York Mayoral Race
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-08-05T21:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/liu-is-denied-public-matching-funds-in-race-for-new-york-mayor.html
New York  City Comptroller  John Liu 
was denied more than $3 million in public matching funds in his
bid for the Democratic mayoral nomination after the Campaign
Finance Board said it found evidence of possible “serious and
pervasive” fundraising violations.  The board disqualified Liu from receiving a 6-to-1 match on
city residents’ donations up to $175, dealing a setback to a
campaign that has struggled in the polls. At a news conference
this afternoon, Liu told a crowd of supporters that he would
appeal the decision and said he plans to stay in the race.  “I utterly dispute and repudiate” the board’s findings,
Liu said. “There’s no question this weakens my campaign. For
the last couple of years I’ve taken body blow after body blow
after body blow, but there’s not going to a knock down here.”  Liu’s campaign has been the subject of a federal
investigation for at least two years. In May, the  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney’s office obtained convictions against his former
campaign treasurer and a fundraiser, who were charged separately
for trying to subvert the city’s campaign-finance system with
straw donors to obtain matching funds.  “The evidence suggests that the potential violations are
serious and pervasive across the campaign’s fundraising,” board
Chairman Joseph Parkes, a Catholic priest, said in a statement.  Board Appointees  The five-member board has two appointees of Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and two selected by City Council Speaker Christine Quinn, one of Liu’s six Democratic rivals for the party’s
mayoral nomination in a Sept. 10 primary. The mayor appoints the
chairman after consultation with the speaker.  Bloomberg is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP. Liu has been a frequent critic of his
mayoral administration.  At a hearing before the board this morning, Liu attorney
 Martin Connor  said the candidate and his campaign shouldn’t be
held responsible for actions of two subordinates. They each told
federal authorities Liu hadn’t been involved in their
fundraising efforts, Connor said.  Connor told the board that while the jury’s guilty verdicts
against the two Liu aides for  wire fraud  had to be respected
pending an appeal, the jury found no evidence of conspiracy
involving Liu or other top aides in his campaign, he said. The
board reached its decision based on evidence revealed during the
prosecution and through its own investigation, Parkes said.  ‘Ultimately Responsible’  “The candidate is ultimately responsible for the
campaign’s compliance with the law,” Parkes said in the
statement. “The choice to withhold payment does not require a
finding that the candidate has personally engaged in
misconduct.” Actions of a campaign treasurer or “other agents
are legally indistinguishable from the campaign,” he said.  Liu, 46, was five years old when his parents arrived in the
U.S. from  Taiwan  and settled in Flushing, Queens, where more
Chinese live than in Manhattan’s Chinatown. After serving two
terms in the City Council, he became the first Asian elected
citywide.  As comptroller, he’s New York’s chief financial officer,
responsible for overseeing $140 billion in pension assets and
auditing city agency spending. In a July 29 Quinnipiac
University poll, he came in fifth, with 6 percent support among
likely Democratic voters, in a field of seven candidates
competing in a Sept. 10 primary.  Union Support  Last month Liu reported he’s raised almost $3.4 million
from 5,800 donors and spent about $1.9 million in the mayoral
race, giving his campaign treasury a balance of about $1.5
million. Liu expected to receive about $3.5 million, campaign
spokeswoman Sharon Lee said.  Lillian Roberts, president of District Council 37 of the
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees,
the city’s largest public-workers union, pledged to step up its
support of Liu.  “What we have to do now to show our resentment is put
boots on the ground every-damn-where,” she said.  The board disbursed a total of almost $9.9 million to five
candidates participating in the public-financing system, with
Quinn receiving $3.4 million; Public Advocate Bill de Blasio,
$2.2 million; former U.S. Representative Anthony Weiner, $1.5
million; and former city Comptroller  William Thompson , $1.4
million. Former Metropolitan Transportation Authority Chairman
Joseph Lhota, the lone Republican participating, received $1.4
million.  Liu backers demonstrated in support of the candidate in
front of the board’s Lower Manhattan offices Aug. 2, and again
today before the board approved the staff recommendation.  Under city law, a candidate who collects $250,000 in
donations of $175 or less qualifies for 6-to-1 matching funds in
a mayor’s race, on the condition that the candidate limit
spending to $6.4 million the primary and again in the general
election, and adheres to rules governing how the money may be
spent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  