-- J.C. Penney Hires Kraft Marketing Executive to Revive Brand
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-08-05T20:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/j-c-penney-hires-kraft-marketing-executive-to-revitalize-brand.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , the department-store
chain seeking to rebound from its worst sales year in more than
two decades, hired Debra Berman from  Kraft (KRFT)  Foods Group Inc. as
senior vice president of marketing.  Berman will be responsible for revitalizing the retailer’s
brand and will report directly to Chief Executive Officer Mike Ullman, according to a statement from the Plano, Texas-based
company today. Berman, who joined J.C. Penney on Aug. 2,
previously directed global brand strategy and customer
engagement at Kraft, where she was employed since 2009.  “There is huge opportunity to remind America’s families
why it is so great to shop at J.C. Penney while attracting new
customers to the brand,” Berman said in the statement.  J.C. Penney is working to improve sales following a 25
percent drop in revenue last year to $13 billion after former
CEO Ron Johnson’s failed attempt to remake the retailer. The
chain ousted Johnson, a former Apple Inc. executive, in April
just 17 months after he took the job. Several marketing
executives hired during Johnson’s tenure from Apple and  Target
Corp. (TGT) , where he had also worked, have also left the company.  Michael Francis, who helped cultivate the “cheap chic”
brand of Target, was named head of J.C. Penney’s marketing
efforts in October 2011 by incoming CEO Johnson. He was fired in
June 2012.  In April, the retailer confirmed that Sissie Twiggs, a vice
president of media in digital marketing and a former Apple
employee, had left. Her departure followed the exit of Nick
Wooster, senior vice president of design and trends. In March,
Lisa DeStefano-Orebaugh left her post as vice president of
strategic marketing for a job at Home Depot Inc.  The shares fell 3.2 percent to $13.82 at the close in New
York. The stock has dropped 30 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  