-- Japan Sales Tax Increase Plan Triggers Some Concern in IMF
-- B y   J a m e s   M a y g e r
-- 2013-08-05T14:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/japan-sales-tax-increase-plan-triggers-some-concern-within-imf.html
Japan’s plan to double a  sales tax  by
2015 to improve its finances has triggered some concern within
the International Monetary Fund’s board.  While IMF directors “generally” supported the plan, “a
few” expressed concern over a possible hit to growth, the fund
said today in a statement summarizing the view of its executive
board. The term “a few” is used by the IMF to mean between two
and four. It urged the country to gradually increase the levy to
“at least 15 percent” to bring down its public debt over the
medium term, according the IMF’s staff report of its annual
review of Japan.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will decide within the next two
months whether to increase the tax to 8 percent in April from 5
percent now and risk damaging a recovery from  Japan ’s  third
recession since 2008 . While Finance Minister Taro Aso has said
he doesn’t understand opposition to the tax increase, adviser
Koichi Hamada said he is cautious on an immediate increase, a
delay that HSBC Holdings Plc warns would rattle bond markets.  Japan’s gross public debt could reach almost 248 percent of
annual gross domestic product next year, the fund projected, an
increase of 10 percent from 2012. Japan should adopt “a
credible medium-term fiscal plan” as quickly as possible, and
needs “growth-friendly revenue and expenditure measures” in
the medium term to bring down its debt-to-GDP ratio, the fund
wrote in the report.  Sales Tax  Under current legislation, the sales tax will rise to 10
percent in October 2015 after next year’s increase, subject to a
final call by the government. Hamada said last month one option
could be to raise it by 1 percentage point at a time, according
to  Kyodo News .  Increasing the sales tax would “knock back growth,”
 Frederic Neumann , HSBC’s co-head of Asian economics research,
wrote in a research report today. “The temptation is thus to
back off  tax reform . That would be a mistake. Markets need
reassurance that the government is set on long-term fixes,” he
said.  Fiscal stimulus and the BOJ’s easing introduced in April --
two “arrows” of Abe’s economic policies aimed at ending 15
years of deflation and reviving growth -- have led to a pickup
in domestic demand, the IMF said. Real GDP growth will rise to 2
percent this year from 1.9 percent in 2012 before slowing next
year to 1.2 percent, the fund forecast.  Strong Growth  “An incomplete version of Abenomics would be unlikely to
sustain the current strong growth,” Jerry Schiff, IMF mission
chief for Japan, said during a conference call today. “In such
a case, over-reliance on fiscal and monetary stimulus could also
generate important costs for the rest of the world.”  Schiff said the IMF supports the plan to increase the
 consumption tax .  “We think this approach balances in an appropriate way the
desire to have fiscal adjustment be gradual and the need for the
government to establish credibility now in its efforts to bring
the debt burden down,” the IMF official said.  A two-step increase in the sales tax won’t cause “major
damage” to the economy, BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said in a
speech last month in Tokyo, referring to the BOJ’s growth
projections. The BOJ forecast 2.8 percent expansion in the
fiscal year started in April, and 1.3 percent growth the
following year, according to the median estimate of policy board
members released last month.  Credibility  The BOJ’s board forecast last month prices would rise 1.9
percent in the fiscal year starting April 2015, without the
effect of the tax rise. The BOJ’s key price gauge excludes fresh
food.  Excluding the effect of the two planned tax increases,
Japan’s won’t see gains in overall prices of 2 percent until
2017, said the IMF.  The risk of Abe altering the timetable for the tax increase
is “low” because a change would undermine the government’s
credibility,  Masamichi Adachi , senior economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Tokyo and a former central bank official, said by
e-mail today.  Japan’s GDP will contract for three months starting April
next year if the tax is introduced as planned, and then return
to expansion, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Wages (JNLSUCTL)  have not kept pace with the growing economy,
only rising in two of the 12 months through June.  Moderately Undervalued  The IMF urged Japan to press ahead with reforms to its
economy, the “third arrow” of Abe’s reflationary policies.  “To generate growth synergies, measures should include
deregulation in agriculture and domestic services, lifting
constraints to the provision of risk capital, reducing Japan’s
excessive labor market duality, reforming the tax system to
stimulate investment, and further relaxing immigration
requirements to areas with labor shortages,” the IMF said.  The yen appears to be “moderately undervalued” following
its recent slide, “although as long as a full package of
reforms is implemented, this would not be seen as problematic,”
the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Mayger in  Tokyo  at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  