-- Jazz Seen Next Target Amid Irish Deal Frenzy: Real M&A
-- B y   C h e l s e y   D u l a n e y
-- 2013-08-05T20:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/jazz-seen-next-target-amid-irish-deal-frenzy-real-m-a.html
After two drug industry suitors
already won lower tax rates through Irish acquisitions,
investors are speculating  Jazz Pharmaceuticals Plc (JAZZ)  and  Alkermes
Plc (ALKS)  may draw the next bids.  Elan Corp. and  Warner Chilcott Plc (WCRX) , drug companies both
domiciled in Ireland, this year found buyers motivated in part
to cut their tax bill. The latest agreement,  Perrigo Co. (PRGO) ’s
purchase of Elan announced July 29, helped drive shares of Jazz
and Alkermes to a  record  and  12-year high , respectively,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With Ireland, where the corporate tax rate is 12.5 percent,
emerging as a favorite base of operations for drug companies,
narcolepsy medication producer Jazz looks like it has takeover
potential, Brean Capital LLC said. Leerink Swann LLC sees
Alkermes, a maker of treatments for nervous system disorders,
possibly luring suitors after Elan and  Warner Chilcott  agreed to
sell for a combined $17 billion.  “It’s been sort of a feeding frenzy,” Timothy Chiang, a
 Stamford , Connecticut-based analyst at CRT Capital Group, said
in a phone interview. “I think some companies have just been
screening for anything that has an Irish corporate tax
structure. It’s been front and center on investors’ minds.”  Laurie Hurley, a spokeswoman for Jazz, declined to comment
on the company’s takeover prospects. Representatives for
Alkermes didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Prior Deals  Elan, based in Dublin, became a target after  Biogen Idec
Inc. (BIIB)  bought the company’s stake in multiple sclerosis drug
Tysabri for $3.25 billion in cash plus future royalties. Less
than three weeks after that Feb. 6 agreement, Royalty Pharma
started an unsuccessful campaign to purchase Elan.  While Perrigo won, Elan lured suitors such as Allergan
Inc., Mylan Inc. and  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) , people with
knowledge of the matter told  Bloomberg News  last month. Perrigo
of Allegan, Michigan, will save more than $150 million a year
from lower taxes and other expense cuts due to the purchase.  Actavis Inc. (ACT)  agreed to buy Dublin-based Warner Chilcott in
May, letting the company shift its domicile to Ireland from the
U.S. and reduce its tax rate to about 17 percent. The deal also
helps Parsippany, New Jersey-based Actavis expand in women’s
health and urology.  The same motivation that drove buyers to Elan and Warner
Chilcott could also spark interest in other Irish pharmaceutical
companies, said Annabel Samimy, a New York-based analyst at
Stifel Financial Corp.  Attracting Attention  “It’s definitely something that’s gotten people’s
attention in pharma,” she said in a phone interview.
“Everyone’s trying to find these strategies to lower these tax
rates,” she added. The trend will continue “as long as there
are assets.”  There are 23 Irish-domiciled corporations valued at more
than $1 billion that trade in the U.S., data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Eight are health-care companies, the data show.
Besides Jazz, Alkermes, Elan and Warner Chilcott, the group
includes  Covidien Plc (COV) ,  Icon Plc (ICLR) ,  Mallinckrodt Plc (MNK)  and  Shire Plc. (SHP)   Both Jazz, which is now  valued  at $4.6 billion, and
Alkermes, with a market capitalization of $4.7 billion, have
rallied after Elan’s takeover was announced on July 29. Today,
Jazz surged 2.6 percent to a record high of $78.18, while
Alkermes advanced 3.1 percent to a 12-year high of $34.66.  Jazz won its Irish domicile through a takeover, buying Azur
Pharma Ltd. last year. Azur was founded by Seamus Mulligan, a
former Elan executive.  Difficult Fight  Jazz may fetch $100 a share in a sale, said Gene Mack, a
New York-based analyst at Brean Capital. That’s 31 percent more
than last week’s close.  “It could get very difficult for them to fight off an
acquisition,” Mack said in a phone interview. Not only could
the tax rate lure suitors, Jazz’s narcolepsy drug, Xyrem, also
has value, he said.  A Jazz takeover might be delayed until after its patent
lawsuit against generic drugmaker Roxane Laboratories Inc. over
Xyrem wraps up, Mack said. While Jazz will probably win the
case, “it would be very unusual for an acquirer to step in
front of that litigation,” he said. The analyst estimates the
case will end in late 2014.  Alkermes also gained its Irish domicile through an
acquisition: buying Elan’s drug technology and formulation unit
in 2011. Alkermes’s pipeline and tax rate could prompt takeover
interest, said Michael Schmidt, a Boston-based analyst at
Leerink Swann.  An impediment to more bids for Irish drugmakers is finding
reasons beyond the low tax rate to justify offers, said  David Amsellem , a New York-based analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.  “A deal that is solely driven by tax purposes could be a
slippery slope,” he said in a phone interview.  To Mack of Brean Capital, the tax rate provides a strong
incentive for more takeovers.  “You’ve got a classic inefficiency in the tax rate
market,” Mack said. “I think everybody is trying to find a
synergy in the Irish tax rate right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chelsey Dulaney in  New York  at 
 cdulaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  