-- JetBlue Seeks First-Class Boost to Trim Gap on Rivals
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-08-06T14:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/jetblue-seeks-cross-country-revenue-boost-to-close-gap-on-rivals.html
(Corrects gender reference in 15th paragraph of story
published Aug. 5.)  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) , trailing its
peers in shareholder returns and profit-margin growth, is
betting on new first-class offerings to boost revenue in cross-country business travel.  Eleven of its new Airbus SAS A321 aircraft will be
outfitted with lie-flat seats and several “private suites”
with closable doors in hopes of gaining more of the $1.43
billion generated annually on New York-Los Angeles routes, the
carrier said today in a statement. That service, debuting in
2014, also will be offered on New York-San Francisco flights.  The first-class options are the initial departure from an
all-coach model for JetBlue, which began flights in 2000 with
seat-back televisions and leather seats. It’s only the start of
needed changes, said David Fintzen, a Barclays Plc analyst. New
York-based JetBlue fell short of  forecasts  for second-quarter
profit and has struggled with aircraft maintenance costs.  “Is it the only thing JetBlue needs to do? No,” Fintzen,
who rates its stock the equivalent of hold, said in an
interview. “It speaks to what is JetBlue’s major problem. Their
costs are not where we would like to see them, but the bigger
problem at JetBlue is a revenue problem.”  JetBlue shares have climbed 14 percent this year, the
lowest among the 10 carriers in the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines
Index, which increased 54 percent. JetBlue also trailed the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 20 percent gain.  The stock rose 0.2 percent to $6.51 at the close today in
 New York .  Customer Request  The first-class offering responds to feedback from regular
customers who said they wouldn’t fly JetBlue on cross-country
flights because of its all-coach service, and from the addition
of the Airbus A321 to the airline’s fleet, Chief Executive
Officer Dave Barger said in an interview.  “The A321, with its real estate, created a much better
platform for us to offer these 16 seats” in first class, he
said. “We feel really good about it. The competitive dynamics
of the marketplace are going to play out.”  The premium seats will offer a better product at a lower
cost, Barger said, without being specific on fares. The service
will start in the second quarter of 2014 and should add to
earnings in those cross-country markets by the second half of
that year, he said.  Boston Flights  The airline may consider later adding the premium cabin on
some flights out of  Boston , where it offers the most daily
departures, Barger said. The A321s with first class will offer
143 coach seats, while those in regular service will have 190.
JetBlue’s existing A320s have 150 seats.  JetBlue joins larger carriers such as AMR Corp.’s  American
Airlines  and Delta Air Lines Inc. that are improving cross-country premium seats in a battle for fares that can top $6,500.  JetBlue’s second-quarter  operating margin  decline of 250
basis points, or 2.5 percentage points, from a year earlier was
the worst among major U.S. carriers, said  Jamie Baker , a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst in New York. He rates its shares
the equivalent of sell. JetBlue Chief Financial Officer Mark Powers called the quarter’s margin contraction “highly
disappointing.”  Maintenance costs at JetBlue, with one of the industry’s
younger aircraft fleets, have climbed an average 49 percent
annually since 2002,  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Research analyst, said
in a report. Keay, based in New York, rates the stock the
equivalent of hold.  Maintenance Agreement  Higher expenses for engine work on its Embraer SA E190
planes this year followed JetBlue’s struggles with a maintenance
provider that unexpectedly liquidated last year. The carrier
recently signed a maintenance accord with a General Electric Co.
unit that JetBlue said should prevent major changes in engine
repair costs going forward.  “It’s definitely something they talk about and say they
are focused on,” Savanthi Syth, a Raymond James Financial
analyst in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , said about escalating
operating costs. “It obviously doesn’t show through.” She
rates the shares underperform.  The delivery of JetBlue’s first A321s next year is expected
to help lower unit cost, or the expense to fly each seat a mile,
along with new technology at the airline’s flight operations
center that should boost efficiency, Powers and Barger said last
month.  “We get it and we know that this is really probably the
one challenge where we have to nail it,” Barger said on a July
30 conference call. JetBlue executives on the call forecast
higher unit costs and improved margins in 2013’s second half.  Low-Cost Rivals  Fintzen, the Barclays analyst, said the carrier must find
more ways to boost revenue from each seat flown a mile to close
the gap with competitors such as  Spirit Airlines Inc. (SAVE) , which
generates more revenue per plane and operates at lower costs.
Spirit offers lower fares, with fees for anything beyond the
base ticket price.  “Analysts are forcing investors to look at the stock in a
new way and pressuring the company to change or face the
consequences of not changing,” said  Jim Corridore , an analyst
at S&P Capital IQ in New York who recommends selling JetBlue
shares. “It’s no longer the fast-growing company that’s the
darling of the Street.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  