-- JPMorgan Buys UBS’s OTC Commodity Derivatives Portfolio
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-08-05T15:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/jpmorgan-buys-ubs-s-otc-commodity-derivatives-portfolio.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which said last
month it plans to get out of the business of owning and trading
physical commodities from metals to oil, bought the over-the-counter commodity derivatives portfolio of  UBS AG (UBSN) , which is
exiting most of its raw-materials trading.  The transaction includes on-exchange hedge positions and
excludes precious metals and index-based products, UBS said in
an e-mailed statement today. JPMorgan assumed market risk on the
portfolio and the two banks “will work together in the coming
months with their clients to fully assign contracts for
individual trades to JPMorgan,” according to the statement.
JPMorgan spokesman Patrick Burton declined to comment.  Banks are scaling back or exiting their commodities
operations amid regulatory scrutiny and lower profits from raw
materials. Revenue in commodities at the 10 largest investment
banks fell 25 percent in the first half of the year, analytics
company Coalition said today.  JPMorgan said last month that it’s considering an exit from
the business of trading physical commodities, marking a reversal
of its push into raw materials with its 2010 purchase of parts
of RBS Sempra, a joint venture between Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and  Sempra Energy. (SRE)  UBS and JPMorgan didn't report the
price of the transaction reported today.  Zurich-based UBS, Switzerland’s biggest lender, last year
decided to close its oil, base metals and agriculture trading
desks, a person with direct knowledge of the decision said Oct.
31. The bank is keeping its index-investor products and precious
metals trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  