-- Kiwi Slides to Month Low as China Bans Milk Powder; Aussie Drops
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-08-05T06:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/kiwi-drops-to-one-month-low-as-china-bans-fonterra-milk-powder.html
New Zealand’s dollar dropped to the
lowest in almost a month against its U.S. counterpart after
 China  banned imports of milk powder from Auckland-based Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd.  The Australian dollar slid to the lowest in almost three
years against the greenback after growth in the nation’s retail
sales unexpectedly stalled, boosting odds for interest-rate cuts
by the Reserve Bank, which meets on policy tomorrow. The yield
on  Australia ’s one-year government note fell to a record low.  “Dairy exports are a big deal, and exports to China are a
big deal for dairy exports,” said  Imre Speizer , a markets
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Auckland. “If China puts
a ban on officially and it lasts for some significant period of
time, you’ll probably see further negative reaction in the
kiwi.”  New Zealand’s currency fell 0.6 percent to 77.90 U.S. cents
as of 4:40 p.m. in Sydney, after touching 76.93, the lowest
since July 8. It dropped 0.5 percent to NZ$1.1421 per Australian
dollar, after reaching NZ$1.1588, the weakest since July 24. The
Aussie lost 0.1 percent to 88.96 U.S. cents, after touching
88.48, the least since August 2010.  Australia’s  one-year  note yield fell as much as 17 basis
points, or 0.17 percentage point, to a record 2.14 percent. The
 10-year (GACGB10)  yield slumped as much as 22 basis points to 3.57
percent, the least since June 19.  Fonterra Ban  Fonterra, the world’s biggest dairy exporter, said Aug. 3
that three batches of a whey protein made at a New Zealand plant
last year may contain bacteria that can cause botulism. There
have been no reports of any illness, the company said.  “We understand that China has suspended imports of all
whey protein and milk-based powder sourced from Fonterra,” the
Ministry for Primary Industries said in an e-mailed statement in
Wellington yesterday. Russia has imposed a temporary ban on all
New Zealand dairy goods, a ministry spokesman said on a
conference call. Milk products account for about a quarter of
New Zealand’s overseas shipments, which comprise about a third
of the nation’s economic output.  “We sell NZ$13.5 billion ($10.5 billion) of dairy products
around the world,” Trade Minister Tim Groser told Radio New
Zealand. “Is all of this at risk? In some purely theoretical
sense, yes.”  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates that is sensitive to expectations about
central bank policy, fell 9 basis points to 3.3 percent.  Rate Bets  Traders reduced bets to 16 percent that the Reserve Bank of
New Zealand will lift interest rates from a record 2.5 percent
by year-end, compared with 28 percent odds on Aug. 2,  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The swaps market is signaling certainty that the RBA will
reduce its key rate by at least 25 basis points to a new all-time low 2.5 percent at its meeting tomorrow, with 2 percent
odds for a 50 basis-point cut. All but one of the 27 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News predict the RBA will lower borrowing
costs.  A report today showed Australia’s  retail sales  were flat in
June from a month earlier, after rising a revised 0.2 percent in
May. Economists in a Bloomberg poll forecast a 0.4 percent gain.  “Retail spending remains one of the weaker parts of the
Australian economic story,” Michael Blythe, the chief economist
in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s
largest lender, wrote in an e-mailed research note.  Australia’s dollar has dropped 13 percent in the past three
months, the most among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The kiwi dollar is the
next biggest decliner, falling 6.9 percent.  Record Shorts  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the Australian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was a
record-high 72,573 on July 30, compared with shorts of 63,982 a
week earlier.  “The market has fully priced an RBA cut tomorrow, and it’s
expecting further cuts after that,” said Westpac’s Speizer. The
Aussie “has got a little bit of room to price in some more
easing, but not a lot.”  A rate reduction tomorrow would be the second this year and
extend an  easing cycle  that began in November 2011, when the
benchmark was lowered from 4.75 percent. The central bank is
trying to stimulate growth in manufacturing, construction and
retail, as a record mining-investment boom wanes.  The Australian economy will expand 2.5 percent this year,
slowing from 3.6 percent growth in 2012, according to the median
estimate of economists. Analysts in a separate poll predict the
Australian dollar will end the year at 90 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  