-- Koruna Retreats as Czech Retail Sales Disappoint: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-08-05T10:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/koruna-retreats-as-czech-retail-sales-disappoint-prague-mover.html
The Czech koruna slid as a bigger-than-expected decline in retail sales added to the case for the
central bank to sell the currency.  The koruna depreciated 0.3 percent to 25.909 per euro by
10:53 a.m. in  Prague , the largest retreat after  New Zealand ’s
dollar today among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Czech retail sales shrank 2.7 in June from a year earlier,
compared with the median estimate of 13 analysts for a 0.5
percent contraction, data published today by the Statistics
Office showed. The likelihood of the first koruna sales in more
than a decade is increasing, the Czech National Bank said on
Aug. 1 after reducing its 2013 gross domestic product forecast.  “Demand is weak” and this “should translate into looser
policy via koruna sales,”  Martin Lobotka , an economist at the
Prague unit of Erste Group Bank AG, wrote in e-mailed comments
on the retail data. “The crucial thing to see before the next
CNB meeting in September is inflation for July and August.”  While the CNB’s board rejected a proposal to start currency
interventions in the first formal vote on the unconventional
monetary-easing tool on Aug. 1, some opposing rate setters are
softening their resistance, Governor Miroslav Singer said the
same day.  Zero rates have prompted policy makers to debate if koruna
sales are needed to battle the longest Czech recession on
record, which pushed inflation below the bank’s target. The
koruna is 5.2 percent weaker than on Sept. 17, a day before
Singer first signaled readiness to sell the currency.  Inflation data for July to be released on Aug. 9 may show
prices grew 1.6 percent from a year earlier, the same pace as in
June and compared with a three-year low of 1.3 percent in May,
according to the median estimate of 15 analysts.  Czech  government bonds  gained today, lowering the  yield  on
10-year notes by three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 2.22 percent. The rate jumped 10 basis points last week to a
month high, according to generic indexes compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  