-- Krona Jumps as Services Unexpectedly Expand: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-08-05T08:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/krona-jumps-as-services-unexpectedly-expand-stockholm-mover.html
Sweden’s krona jumped after an index
showed the services industry unexpectedly expanded in July,
signaling an accelerating recovery in the largest Nordic
economy.  The krona gained as much as 0.5 percent against the euro,
its steepest intraday gain since July 31, and was up 0.2 percent
at 8.7559 as of 10:18 a.m. local time. It climbed as much as 0.4
percent against the dollar to 6.5768.  An index based on responses from about 200 purchasing
managers in the Swedish services industry surged to a seasonally
adjusted 56.6 in July from 44.9 the previous month. The reading
was the highest since May 2011 and beat the median 46.7 estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of three economists.  “This means that the total index is back in the growth-zone after having showed a weakening within the services sector
during the entire second quarter,” Swedbank said. “The big
increase, of more than 11 index points, should be analyzed with
significant caution though, as July is a holiday month.”  The central bank last month kept its main rate unchanged
and said it will probably start raising rates in the second half
of next year as the growth improves. The export-reliant
economy’s recovery has been hampered by weak demand from euro-area nations that are struggling to emerge from the bloc’s
longest recession since the introduction of the single currency.  While preliminary data released on July 30 showed that the
economy shrank a quarterly 0.1 percent in the second quarter,
after expanding 0.6 percent in the first three months,  consumer
confidence  rose to a two-year high in July and retail sales
accelerated more than estimated in June.  A separate report from  Statistics Sweden  today showed
service production shrank an annual 0.2 percent in June, missing
the median estimate of 0.5 percent growth. Service production
fell 0.4 percent in June from May, Statistics Sweden said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  