-- N.Y. City Asks Top State Court to Review Large-Soda Ban
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-08-05T17:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/n-y-city-asks-top-state-court-to-review-large-soda-ban.html
New York City  asked the state’s
 highest court  to review a decision striking down a local ban on
sales of large-sized sugary soft drinks.  The city today urged the Court of Appeals in  Albany  to
expedite consideration of its request, citing a recent American
Medical Association study showing the health effects of obesity
and  Type 2 diabetes , conditions city officials claim are linked
to soda consumption, according to a Law Department statement.  “This is a pressing public health matter that deserves
careful review by the state’s highest court,” the city’s
corporation counsel, Michael A. Cardozo, said in the statement.
“The Board of Health must be able to combat the growing obesity
epidemic, and there is clear precedent for the board to have
that authority.”  In September, the board approved Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s
plan to cap the size of sugary drinks sold in restaurants, movie
theaters, stadiums and arenas at 16 ounces a cup. Groups
representing beverage makers, restaurants and theaters sued to
block the limit a month later, calling it “unprecedented
interference” with consumer choice.  Exceeded Authority  A unanimous panel of the New York State Supreme Court’s
Appellate Division,  First Department , on July 30 upheld Justice
Milton Tingling’s ruling striking down the plan, saying the
Board of Health exceeded its authority when it approved the
restrictions.  Tingling issued a permanent injunction in March, calling
the ban “arbitrary and capricious” because it applies only to
some food establishments in the city and excludes other
beverages with high concentrations of sugar and calories.  “We are pleased that the lower court’s decision was
recently upheld by the appellate division, and we are confident
in the ruling,” Christopher Gindlesperger, a spokesman for the
American Beverage Association, a Washington-based group of non-alcoholic beverage makers and a plaintiff in the suit against
the city, said in an e-mail. “We look forward to a final
resolution of this issue.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News . The appeal couldn’t be
immediately confirmed in court records.  The case is  New York  Statewide Coalition of Hispanic
Chambers of Commerce v. New York City Department of Health and
Mental Hygiene, 653584-2012, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  