-- N.Y. Port Gridlock Eases as Freight Computers Modified
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   S u r a n e
-- 2013-08-05T22:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/n-y-port-gridlock-eases-as-freight-computers-modified.html
Cargo bottlenecks are easing at the
Port of  New York  and New Jersey, the busiest  container port  on
the U.S. East Coast, as Maher Terminals LLC scales back a new
computer system blamed for snarling freight shipments.  Service at Maher’s facility in Elizabeth, New Jersey, has
“returned to acceptable levels,” according to a  statement  from
Maher and Navis LLC, the technology company responsible for the
cargo-handling system. Some of the automated elements of the
system now on hold will be added back later, the companies said.  Maher, which handles a third of the  port ’s volume,
introduced the system in June to boost efficiency. Instead, the
computers often shut down, forcing the terminal to close for
hours at a time,  Jeff Bader , president of the  Association of Bi-State Motor Carriers  trade group, said today by telephone.  “The worst days were in the early part of June when they
turned the system over,” said Bader, who is also chief
executive officer of Golden Carriers Inc. in New York. “The
truck lines were four to six hours on a good day and the drivers
just waited in line. It was a nightmare. It was a horror show.”  A phone message left with Maher’s offices in Elizabeth for
comment beyond the July 31 joint statement on port gridlock
wasn’t returned. Andy Barrons, chief marketing officer for
Oakland, California-based Navis, said “software was not
identified as the root cause of the issues.”  Peak Season  The congestion began as retailers entered the peak shipping
season spanning back-to-school sales to the holiday rush at
year’s end, said Jonathan Gold, vice president of supply chain
and customs for the  National Retail Federation . In a July 30
letter, the group urged the  Port Authority  of New York and  New
Jersey  and the New York Shipping Association to work with
terminal operators to resolve the congestion.  New York backlogs forced many retailers to consider other
ports and shipping methods to ensure their goods made it to
stores in time, Gold said today by telephone. He said Baltimore
and Norfolk,  Virginia , were the other destinations of choice.  “They’re looking at using other ports on the East Coast,”
Gold said. “Or air cargo from other distribution centers to
make sure they have products on the store shelves so a consumer
doesn’t walk in the door and see an empty shelf.”  Maher shifted volume from its Elizabeth terminal to the
other five terminals at the port while it worked through the
computer issues, said John Nardi, president of the shipping
association, which represents terminal operators including
Maher.  Terminal Tie-Ups  While Maher’s operations are improving, the other terminals
are still struggling with road congestion and cargo backlogs,
Nardi said.  “When Maher sneezes, the port catches a cold,” Nardi
said. “When they have a problem it tends to impact everybody
because of their size.”  Maher was acquired by Deutsche Bank AG in 2007, while Navis
is a unit of Helsinki-based  Cargotec Oyj. (CGCBV)   The Port of New York and New Jersey ranked No. 24 in global
container volumes in 2012 and No. 3 in the U.S. behind  Los
Angeles  and  Long Beach ,  California , according to the World
Shipping Council trade group. A telephone message left today
with the Port Authority for comment about Maher’s setbacks
wasn’t returned.  The Wall Street Journal reported on the port bottlenecks
earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Surane in New York at 
 jsurane1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  