-- Netanyahu Bank Succession Bungle Stokes Shekel Surge
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-08-06T15:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/netanyahu-bank-succession-bungle-stokes-shekel-surge.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s botched efforts to replace  Stanley Fischer  have
fueled concerns the Bank of Israel won’t keep the shekel in
check, hurting the country’s export-driven economy.  The currency is trading near its strongest in three months,
and has gained 2.5 percent since the June departure of Governor
Fischer, who cut rates and more than doubled reserves while
buying foreign currency to moderate shekel gains. Last week, two
nominees to replace him withdrew their candidacies.  “Investors are looking at the Bank of Israel with more
uncertainty,”  Daniel Hewitt , senior economist at  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
in  London , said yesterday. “Previously we had Fischer in charge
and now we have a group of people sitting there that implemented
his policies. One wonders how much vigor they’re going to put
into this when they don’t know what’s coming next.”  Fischer’s handpicked deputy, Karnit Flug, is acting as a
caretaker until the situation is resolved. The Manufacturers
Association of Israel, whose exports are being hurt by the
strong shekel, warned that the succession fiasco is preventing
the central bank from dealing with the “exchange rate crisis.”  “Any delay in appointing a governor is a strategic threat
to the economy of Israel,” Zvi Oren, president of the
manufacturers group, said in an e-mailed statement. “The  Bank
of Israel  must immediately increase its exchange rate
involvement, in order to moderate the trend of shekel
appreciation.”  Hurts Exports  The strong shekel makes exports, which account for about 40
percent of gross domestic product, more expensive and less
competitive.  Rony Gitlin, head of spot trading for Tel Aviv-based  Bank
Leumi Le-Israel (LUMI) , said markets see the limbo at the central bank
boosting the shekel.  “The market doesn’t expect any drastic intervention in the
market in the interim period until a new governor is in place,”
Gitlin said by phone yesterday. “This gives support for the
shekel to extend gains.”  The currency strengthened 0.2 percent to 3.5464 per dollar
at 5:59 p.m. in  Tel Aviv , headed for the highest close since
August 2011. TheMarker reported that the Bank of Israel bought
between $100 million to $150 million in the course of trading
today. The central bank declined to comment.  Caretaker Governor  Netanyahu and Finance Minister Yair Lapid waited until days
before Fischer’s June 30 departure before appointing Frenkel,
the first of their nominees, to replace him. He announced last
week that he no longer wanted the job, saying he suffered an
“avalanche” of media abuse after his nomination.  Candidate No. 2,  Bank Hapoalim (POLI)  Ltd. chief economist
Leonardo Leiderman, pulled out Aug. 2, just two days after he
was nominated. Flug, who announced she would leave the bank
after being passed over a second time, has agreed to stay on
until a new governor is installed.  Potential alternatives mentioned by the media include
Eugene Kandel, the head of the National Economic Council,  Manuel Trajtenberg , a former head of the National Economic Council, and
Zvi Eckstein, a former deputy governor.  Lapid has said the next nominee will be chosen after a
“slow” and “deliberate” process, while the Ha’aretz
newspaper reported yesterday that Netanyahu was considering
changing the way in which nominations are made to try to avoid
another debacle.  ‘Added Uncertainty’  While the central bank is “functioning normally” under
Flug’s leadership, the question of who the next governor will be
is adding “uncertainty” to the foreign  currency market , said
Reuben Gronau, central bank monetary policy committee member.
Frenkel said in February that intervening to weaken currencies
“leads nowhere.”  “Forex markets are by nature uncertain,” Gronau said.
“So here is an added uncertainty: how forceful will the next
governor be on the forex front?”  Fischer, 69, who left the bank after eight years as
governor, has been credited with helping the nation weather the
global economic crisis better than most developed countries. In
October 2008, he beat the Fed and the  European Central Bank  by a
day in cutting  interest rates  following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. He also bought foreign currency in
unprecedented amounts.  Best Performer  The shekel advanced by about 5 percent against the dollar
this year, making it the best performer of 31 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The currency has been buoyed by the start in March of
natural gas production from the Tamar field, off Israel’s
Mediterranean Coast. Israel’s gas discoveries are leading the
country to energy independence and are set to improve its
current-account balance by as much as $3 billion this year,
according to the central bank.  For every $1 billion improvement in the current account,
which makes the nation less dependent on foreign capital, the
shekel strengthens about 1 percent, according to a Bank of
 Israel  estimate.  Currency Purchases  In April, the Bank of Israel began buying foreign currency
for the first time in almost two years after the shekel rallied
to an 18-month high. In May, Fischer announced a foreign
currency purchase program of $2.1 billion for the year to
counteract the effect of natural gas production.  Since then, the shekel has more than regained losses
triggered by the purchases and by the double rate cut in May.  While Netanyahu and Lapid consider their next step, some
analysts are still rooting for Flug, considered by markets as
“the one candidate committed to continuing the policy line
introduced by Fischer,” according to Rafael Gozlan, chief
economist at I.B.I. - Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd.  “The crisis will probably generate further upward pressure
on the shekel, unless Prime Minister Netanyahu and Finance
Minister Lapid finally relent and appoint acting governor Dr.
Karnit Flug,” Gozlan said.  Nir Omid, chief investment officer at Tamir Fishman, urged
Flug to surprise the market with an unscheduled, mid-month rate
cut of 25 or 50 basis points, in order to maximize the effect
and weaken the shekel.  “This could be Karnit Flug’s finest hour,” Omid said
today. “In the meantime, there is no leadership, and no one
holding the reins.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  