-- New York City’s Prevailing Wage Law Struck Down by Judge
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-08-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/new-york-city-s-prevailing-wage-law-struck-down-by-judge.html
A  New York City  requirement for
landlords and companies receiving economic aid from the city to
pay workers a prevailing wage was struck down by a judge who
said it was preempted by the state’s minimum wage law.  New York Supreme Court Justice Geoffrey D. Wright in
 Manhattan  said the measure, in effect, would have raised the
minimum wage for some private employees. Wright, saying he
recognized the potential benefits of the ordinance, said he made
the decision “with great compunction” in the lawsuit filed by
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg .  “This court believes that the Prevailing Wage Law could
benefit the people of New York and does not see wisdom in the
mayor’s zeal for the possibility of welcoming to New York City a
business that would pay its building service employees less than
the prevailing wage,” Wright said in the ruling dated Aug. 2
and posted on the court’s docket yesterday.  The bill passed by the 51-member City Council, overriding
the mayor’s veto, would have mandated the payment of a
prevailing wage to service employees in commercial or
residential buildings whose employers receive at least $1
million in economic development aid from the city.  Employers would have been required to maintain records and
to report hours and wage and benefit information for those
workers. The requirement also would have applied to all
buildings in which the city leases space, which the mayor said
would increase its costs.  Law’s Requirements  The law required that the prevailing wage calculated
annually by the city comptroller be paid to workers in
businesses that receive more than $1 million in city tax
abatements or low-interest financing and in buildings leased by
the city. The law exempted small and nonprofit businesses, ,
manufacturing plants and facilities of the city’s Health and
Hospitals Corp.  The bill was adopted by the council 44-4 in May 2012 and
took effect in November. The mayor, the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , sued the
council in July 2012.  “This ill-conceived legislation threatened some of the
most important job-creating projects in the city,”  Julie Wood ,
a spokeswoman for the mayor, said yesterday in a statement.
“Legislation like this makes it harder for companies to invest
in New York City, at a time when we need to be making it
easier.”  The city council disagrees with Wright’s decision and will
take appropriate legal steps to overturn the ruling, Jamie
McShane, a spokesman for the council, said in an e-mail.  The case is Mayor of the City of New York v. New York City
Council, 451369/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  