-- Nigerian Army Says 35 Killed in Clashes With Islamists
-- B y   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2013-08-05T16:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/nigerian-army-says-35-killed-in-clashes-with-islamists.html
Nigerian security forces repelled two
attacks by suspected Boko Haram Islamist militants in the
northeast that left 35 people dead, the army said.  Among those killed in the fighting yesterday in the towns
of Bama and Mallam Fatori in Borno state were 32 militants, two
soldiers and a policeman, Sagir Musa, a regional spokesman, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  In Bama 17 militants were killed after they attacked a
police base using weapons including improvised explosive
devices, said Musa. One policeman was killed in the clash and
two soldiers were wounded. In Mallam Fatori 15 suspected Boko
Haram members and two soldiers were killed in the clash that
followed an attack on a military location.  Boko Haram, whose name means “Western education is a sin”
in the Hausa language, has killed thousands of people in gun and
bomb attacks since 2009 in the mainly Muslim north and the
capital, Abuja, in its campaign to establish an Islamic state in
 Africa ’s largest oil producer. Nigeria’s more than 160 million
people are roughly split between Christians, predominant in the
south, and Muslims, mostly in the north.  Nigerian troops began an air and ground offensive against
the militants on May 16, two days after President Goodluck Jonathan imposed emergency rule in the northeastern states of
Borno, Yobe and Adamawa to step up the fight against the
Islamists. The insurgents were taking over parts of Borno state,
according to Jonathan.  In Bama troops recovered four Toyota Hilux pickup trucks
and weapons including rocket propelled grenade tubes, 10 AK-47
rifles and assorted ammunition, Musa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  