-- Norway Banks Need More Freedom to Lend Says Solberg
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n   a n d   J o n a s   B e r g m a n
-- 2013-08-06T14:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/norway-banks-need-more-freedom-to-lend-says-solberg.html
In  Norway , where property prices have
doubled in about 10 years sending household debt to a record,
the country’s financial regulator and central bank governor have
warned of an overheated property market. The top candidate to
become prime minister in elections next month says otherwise.  Erna Solberg, who most polls show will oust Prime Minister
Jens Stoltenberg in Sept. 9 elections, says western Europe’s
biggest oil producer needs to remove lending limits for its
mortgage industry to further support the housing market.  Regulators “should be more focused on bankers’ ability in
knowing who can repay their loans,” the 52-year-old
Conservative Party leader said in an interview in Oslo last
week. “We’re not the U.S.; in Norway, people don’t get away
from paying their loans -- we don’t have that type of
dysfunctional system.”  The debate over whether Norway’s housing market is in the
grip of a bubble is now splitting the nation as a rally in home
prices has ebbed. While Solberg rejects any signs of a bubble,
Morten Baltzersen, who heads the Financial Supervisory
Authority, has backed measures designed to curb mortgage
lending. Central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen has warned on
housing imbalances, even as low rates abroad have forced him to
keep  interest rates  near a record low to avoid spurring gains in
the krone.  In Norway, where unemployment slipped to 3.4 percent in May
and public finances are backed by a $740 billion sovereign
wealth fund, household debt has surged to about 200 percent of
disposable income, according to the central bank. The average
home price in Oslo has more than doubled since 2000 to about
4.55 million kroner ($770,000), according to Norwegian Real
Estate Agents Association.  Bankruptcy Laws  Norwegians can’t escape their mortgage obligations by
declaring bankruptcy, which can act as a ceiling on how much
debt people amass. In the U.S., it is sometimes possible to
escape mortgage debt through bankruptcy, though ordinarily you
can’t if you keep the home.  The world’s richest economies, such as Norway, Switzerland
and  Canada , have tried to gauge the extent to which
unprecedented monetary easing in the U.S. and Europe is fueling
asset bubbles. Robert Shiller, the co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index, said at the beginning of last year
that Norway was already in a housing bubble.  Lending Limits  In response to the concerns, Norway’s financial regulator
has set a guideline urging banks to cap mortgages at 85 percent
of a property’s value, where before many borrowers were getting
loans of 100 percent. The Finance Ministry has proposed tripling
risk weights on mortgage assets and also wants to limit issuance
of covered bonds backed by home loans.  A rally in Norway’s covered bond market also has come to a
halt as fissures start to show in the housing market.  The Iboxx Norwegian  covered bond total return index  has
risen 1 percent over the past 12 months, compared with an
annualized 5.7 percent gain since mid-2008.  As Norway’s election campaign heats up, concerns over
housing prices are giving way to promises to pad voters’
wallets. Stoltenberg, who has served two four-year terms, is
promising to extend the nation’s welfare services while Solberg
wants to cut taxes. She also argues that instead of worrying
about regulating mortgages, Norway needs to make sure citizens
can get the credit they need to buy homes.  “A lot of young people who are finishing university and
getting well-paid jobs still have a problem getting a bank loan
for a house,” she said. “We think that’s too strict.”  Her main ally in trying to unseat the premier, Progress
Party leader Siv Jensen, agrees.  Long Term  “The banks say that when they evaluate whether or not to
give a loan, they will see it in a long-term perspective,” she
said in an Aug. 5 interview. “The new rules make it harder for
the banks to have that flexibility. We need to change that back
to what it was.”  As life in Norway grows more expensive, wages are rising,
reducing competitiveness. Manufacturing labor costs in the $480
billion economy are almost 70 percent higher than the average in
the European Union. Norway, like Switzerland, has opted to
remain outside the 28-nation EU.  While central bank rates have stayed on hold since March
2011, banks including  DNB ASA (DNB)  have raised mortgage rates this
year, increasing revenue and helping cool the housing market.
House prices slid a seasonally adjusted 1.2 percent in July,
trimming the annual increase to 3.9 percent from 8.5 percent at
the start of the year, according to data from the Norwegian Real
Estate Agents Association.  Capital Requirements  Norway, like Sweden, plans to impose core capital
requirements on banks that exceed those set by European and
international regulators. It is targeting core capital
requirements for its banks of 10 percent of risk-weighted assets
by July next year, up from 9 percent. For systemically important
banks, the target will rise to 11 percent in 2015 and 12 percent
in 2016. The country is also preparing to roll out a counter-cyclical buffer of as much as 2.5 percentage points, to be
imposed according to central bank guidance.  Banks in neighboring  Sweden  must hold at least 10 percent
core Tier 1 capital of risk-weighted assets this year, with the
minimum requirement rising to 12 percent in 2015.  The regulator said in April that strong credit growth was
mostly demand driven, and warned that optimism gripping Norway
can easily evaporate. Solberg said the government has gone too
far in clamping down on banks.  No Bubble?  “The capital regulations should go in the same tempo as
the Scandinavian countries,” Solberg said. “Even if the aim
has been to tighten capital requirements for housing, housing is
the safest area of lending in the Norwegian economy, when the
bank capitals get tighter, they will start cutting back on small
businesses instead of cutting back on housing.”  Solberg is leading in most opinion polls as Stoltenberg’s
Labor-led coalition loses support. She had her best poll result
last month with 41 percent of Norwegians saying they want her to
lead the nation. Stoltenberg’s support was 29.2 percent in the
same poll.  He’s likely to be voted out because people want a change,
rather than Norwegians being unhappy with his policies, said
Johannes Bergh, an election researcher at the Institute for
Social Research in Oslo, said last month  Solberg argues measures affecting credit markets are
misguided because the main cause of imbalance in Norway’s
housing market is a lack of supply.  “Our biggest problem now is that in the four largest
cities of Norway, population growth is outpacing the building of
houses, and that leads to an increase in house prices,” she
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 