-- Old Professors Never Quit, They Just Hang Around
-- B y   M a r k   B a u e r l e i n
-- 2013-08-05T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/old-professors-never-quit-they-just-hang-around.html
Millions of 18-year-olds are excited
about heading to college this month -- leaving home, making
friends and taking courses that meet only a few hours a week. On
the first day of classes, however, they may be startled to find
that the professor who enters Calculus I or Intro to Philosophy
is more than a  half-century  older than they are.  The phenomenon of the teacher who sticks around well past
age 70 has been widely noted, yet colleges have had little
success in mitigating its impact. A survey commissioned by
Fidelity Investments and  reported  at Inside Higher Ed in June
 found  that “some 74 percent of professors aged 49-67 plan to
delay retirement past age 65 or never retire at all.”  Never retire at all? Another study cited in the article,
this one using National Science Foundation data, calculated that
since the 1970s only 28 percent of higher education faculty had
retired by age 65.  Think of this from an employer’s point of view. In today’s
economy, is there any worse policy than guaranteeing an employee
the same job for 40-plus years, even if he or she meets few of
the organization’s needs and costs a lot in the bargain?  That’s what tenure ensures. An assistant professor comes up
for promotion at about age 35, and if the candidate qualifies,
the school maintains him or her until the professor (or death)
decides otherwise. Granting tenure in 2010 commits the school to
that employee until 2050 or beyond.  No Flexibility  If a major was popular in the 1980s, and a school hired and
tenured professors in response, the school keeps them regardless
of how many majors the field has in 2010. The college not only
has no flexibility to shift the workforce when demand goes down
-- a professor of sociology can’t shift to chemistry -- but also
has to pay a higher cost for the employee every year (because of
ordinary salary adjustments, pension contributions and medical
coverage).  Take the case of French professors. According to the  Modern
Language Association , the discipline recorded 248,000 course
enrollments in 1980 in accredited, not-for-profit institutions
(including two-year schools). In 1990, the number rose to
272,000, and in those heady years a certain number of faculty
members hired to teach those courses won tenure. Since then,
enrollments have dipped more than 20 percent, averaging about
207,000 for the last 10 years. For German, the drop is worse:
133,000 in 1990 to 95,000 today.  Obviously, some of these professors aren’t needed now. But
ever since 1994, when mandatory retirement rules were ended,
administrators can’t make them leave. As Columbia professor Mark
Taylor  put it  in 2010, “Tenure decisions render illiquid a
significant percentage of endowments at the precise moment when
more flexibility is required.”  The only way to force a tenured professor out is to close
an entire department, a step a few schools have taken. But no
ambitious dean likes to face the fracas that ensues. When the
State University of  New York  at  Albany , for example, cut five
low-enrollment humanities programs, an NPR story on it
 highlighted  the “outcry” that followed which “resonated with
the public and the press.”  Most professors in slipping fields don’t notice the effects
much. Tenure frees them from worrying about student interest.
They love having smaller classes and fewer papers to grade.  The standard course universities have taken is to offer
buyout packages to accelerate retirements. But that old tactic
may no longer work. It’s not just the bad job market.  In the Fidelity survey, professors ranked personal reasons
more often than financial concerns for continuing to work. Only
55 percent declared that uncertainty over having enough money to
retire comfortably was their main reason for staying, while 89
percent said they “want to stay busy and productive” and 64
percent said they “love the work too much to give it up.”  Hiring Changes  What’s a manager to do when an expensive and not-so-productive 73-year-old worker can’t be released or reassigned?
The obvious answer is to stop the process before it starts, and
use more nontenured instructors.  In 1969, tenured and tenure-track faculty  amounted  to 78
percent of the higher education workforce. By 2009, that rate
had slipped to 33 percent, even as the number of professors over
65 doubled from 2000 to 2011, the Bureau of Labor Statistics
reports. Faculty leaders complain about the trend, citing the
bad wages and benefits in nontenured employment. But the
Fidelity survey explains why administrators have no choice.  Tenure started 100 years ago as a way to preserve academic
freedom, not to keep employees in place 10 years past customary
retirement age. The continued resistance to reform shows
arrogant disregard for rising college costs for students, for
meritocratic decision-making and for academic innovation.  The current method of converting tenured slots to
nontenured ones is too slow. We need another incentive, and
there is none more powerful among selective institutions than
the U.S. News  rankings , which scare administrators every year.
What if the rankings included another variable, “Percentage of
professors over age 65”? No university wants to top that list,
and we can be sure that once it appears, a whole new set of
creative solutions to the never-retiring professor will be
found.  (Mark Bauerlein is a  professor  of English at Emory
University and the author of “ The Dumbest Generation .”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Bauerlein at  engmb@emory.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 