-- Pacific Rubiales to Gain From Drilling Permits, Citigroup Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-08-05T17:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/pacific-rubiales-to-gain-from-drilling-permits-citigroup-says.html
Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE)  shares
are poised to return 33 percent in the next year as the
Colombian driller wins environmental permits to boost output and
lowers operating costs, Citigroup Inc. analysts said.  Pending permits for the company’s CPE-6 block and Rubiales
field will probably be granted in the second half of the year,
and the opening of the Bicentenario pipeline will help lower
operating costs, analysts Pedro Medeiros and Fernando Valle
wrote in an e-mailed report. Bogota-based Pacific Rubiales is
poised for an “earnings growth story in the next six months,”
they wrote in the report yesterday.  Pacific Rubiales’s  second-quarter profit  will drop by 22
percent to $174 million as drilling matures in the Rubiales
field, the country’s largest, according to the report. Cost
reductions in the quarter will probably help to offset lower oil
prices, according to the report. The company is scheduled to
announce earnings Aug. 8 after the close of markets.  Citigroup’s target price is C$27 for the Toronto-traded
shares over the next 12 months, which would imply a 33 percent
return including dividends, according to the report. Canadian
markets were closed today for a holiday.  The  Bogota-traded shares  fell 0.5 percent to 37,460 pesos
at 11:25 a.m. local time.  The Bicentenario pipeline is expected to start up this
quarter and will provide Pacific Rubiales with about 37,000
barrels a day of transportation capacity, which will reduce the
use of more expensive trucks, according to a company report in
July.  -- Editors: Bradley Keoun, Dennis Fitzgerald  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  