-- Parcells Praises Team Owners on Entry to Football Hall of Fame
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-08-05T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/parcells-praises-team-owners-on-entry-to-football-hall-of-fame.html
Bill Parcells  said he couldn’t have
become the only coach to guide four different teams to the
postseason without the backing of the owners of the  New York
Giants ,  New York Jets ,  New England Patriots  and  Dallas Cowboys .  Parcells, 71, was enshrined in the Pro Football Hall of
Fame two days ago after being voted in by the 46-member
selection committee in February on his third attempt.  “Every organization that I worked for supported me to the
fullest,” Parcells said in his induction speech in Canton,
Ohio. “I’m grateful to the ownership of those places because
that’s what allows you, and the players, to succeed and go
forward and become champions and, without that, you’ve got no
shot.”  Parcells coached the Giants to  Super Bowl  titles after the
1986 and 1990 seasons; took the Patriots to the Super Bowl five
years later, where they lost to the Green Bay Packers; guided
the Jets to the American Football Conference title game in
January 1999; and led the Cowboys to two playoff appearances.  Parcells, the 22nd coach to reach the Hall of Fame, is one
of 13 National Football League head coaches with more than one
Super Bowl victory and one of five who has led two franchises to
the NFL title game.  Former wide receiver Cris Carter was also among the seven-member class inducted Aug. 3, along with offensive linemen  Larry Allen  and Jonathan Ogden, and defensive tackle Warren Sapp.
Completing this year’s class were senior candidates Curley Culp
and Dave Robinson, who played in the 1960s and 1970s.  Parcells had a 172-130-1 regular-season record with the
Giants, Patriots, Jets and Cowboys. He had an 11-8 playoff
record, including 8-3 with the Giants.  “I found out over the years that commitment has varying
degrees in the NFL,” said Parcells. “I’ve seen coaches go to
these franchises and get fired very quickly because the
situation would not allow them to succeed. Fortunately for Bill
Parcells, I was never in one of those situations.”  Vital Information  In 19 years as a head coach, Parcells had five losing
seasons and his teams finished first or second in their division
11 times. He turned around four teams, including the Giants, who
had one winning season in the 10 years before he took over in
1983, a stretch in which co-owner  John Mara  called the team a
“laughingstock.”  Parcells said Dean Pryor, who gave him his first coaching
job at Hastings College, gave him an important lesson.  “He taught me one vital piece of information when he said,
‘Bill, the players deserve a chance to win and you as an
organization, a university, coaching staff, individual coach, or
head coach have an obligatory responsibility to give it to
them,’” Parcells said. “I preached it all my life.”  After a 3-12-1 record in Parcells’s first year, the Giants
made the postseason as a wild-card team the next two years. In
1986, the Giants went 14-2 and finished with a Super Bowl
victory over the  Denver Broncos . Four years later, the Giants
beat the  Buffalo Bills  20-19 for their second Super Bowl title
under Parcells.  ‘Right Players’  Parcells said those early years were pivotal for his
career.  “It was touch and go, another loss or two and it could
have gone either way,” he said. “I had the exact right kind of
players.”  Parcells spent two years out of the NFL before returning to
coach the Patriots.  New England  was 2-14 the year prior to his
arrival and went 10-6 in his second season, with their first
playoff appearance in eight years. The Patriots won the American
Football Conference championship two years later.  Parcells performed a similar turnaround with the Jets,
where he started in 1997. Two years after going 1-15 in 1996,
the Jets went 12-4 and reached the AFC title game.  Parcells took the Cowboys to the playoffs after the 2003
and 2006 seasons before taking front-office roles with the Jets
and Miami Dolphins. Among his former assistants who are now NFL
head coaches are the Patriots’  Bill Belichick , the Giants’  Tom Coughlin  and the New Orleans Saints’  Sean Payton .  Human Lab  Parcells recalled Hall of Fame quarterback  Steve Young 
describing the locker room as “a great laboratory for human
behavior.”  “Talent aside, the only prerequisite for getting
acceptance is you have to be willing to contribute to the
greater good,” Parcells said. “And if you are willing to do
that, you are readily accepted; and if you’re not, you’re pretty
much quickly rejected. If you’re willing to help, ‘Come on in;’
if you’re not, ‘Get out of here.’”  Carter, 47, had 1,101 receptions and 130 touchdown catches
over his 16-year NFL career, ranking fourth in both categories.
He led the  Minnesota Vikings  in receptions from 1991 to 2000,
including an eight-year stretch in which he had 1,000 yards
receiving each season.  Ogden, 39, was the fourth pick in the 1996 draft and voted
to the Pro Bowl 11 times in a 12-year career with the Baltimore
Ravens. He won a Super Bowl title after the 2000 season and in
2003 anchored an offensive line that helped Jamal Lewis become
the fifth player in NFL history to rush for more than 2,000
yards.  ‘Striving for Perfection’  “Talent isn’t enough,” Ogden said. “A lot of people have
talent, they don’t always live up to it. For me it is about
maximizing, striving for perfection.”  Sapp, 40, had 96 1/2 quarterback sacks over 13 seasons with
the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers  and  Oakland Raiders . A seven-time Pro
Bowl selection, Sapp won a Super Bowl title with the Buccaneers
after the 2002 season.  Allen, 41, made the Pro Bowl 11 times over his 14-year NFL
career and won a Super Bowl title with the Cowboys after the
1995 season.  “I just knew I had to win every play,” said Allen,
wearing sunglasses as he sniffled through his speech. “That’s
the reason I am here. I knew if I lost a play, I had 45 seconds
to get even.”  Culp, 67, was a pro lineman for 14 seasons and played for
the  Kansas City Chiefs ’ Super Bowl-winning team after the 1969
season. The six-time Pro Bowl selection also played in the AFC
Championship Game after the 1978 and 1979 seasons with the
Houston Oilers.  Robinson, 72, spent 10 of his 12 NFL seasons with the Green
Bay Packers and had 27 career interceptions from his linebacker
position.  “The Hall of Fame is the closest thing a football player
can get to immortality,” Robinson said. “Now I am
immortalized.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  