-- PKK Peace Talks Threat Seen Passing as CDS Climb: Turkey
-- B y   O n u r   A n t
-- 2013-08-05T08:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/pkk-peace-talks-threat-seen-passing-as-cds-climb-turkey.html
Investor concern that peace talks
between Turkey’s government and the Kurds risk failing will
probably fade, helping to boost sentiment toward the nation’s
assets, according to Odea Bank AS and  Standard Bank  Plc.  Credit-default swaps on Turkey, contracts insuring the
country’s debt against non-payment, climbed 92 basis points in
the past three months, the fourth-biggest increase among
 emerging markets  in  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg as of last week’s close.
They fell to the lowest level on record of 112 on May 9, a day
after militants from the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, began
withdrawing from Turkey following a call for peace by their
imprisoned leader  Abdullah Ocalan .  While HT newspaper reported July 30 that Ocalan may end his
support for talks amid frustration over the “lack of peace,”
the process will probably continue and help Turkish assets, said
Inanc Sozer, an economic-research manager at Odea in Istanbul.
Peace talks helped investor sentiment earlier this year amid the
promise of an end to the fighting between Turkey and the PKK
that has cost hundreds of billions of dollars and seen tens of
thousands of lives lost since 1984.  “The likelihood of a positive outcome from the ongoing
 peace process  may help Turkey drive down the  risk premium  in
assets,” Sozer said by phone on Aug. 2. “The fact that talks
are ongoing is positive.”  Credit Positive  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told lawmakers in
February that he was ready to sacrifice popularity in search of
a solution to the 30-year conflict. Ocalan called for militants
to cease their armed conflict the following month. Moody’s
Investors Service said in April that Turkey’s peace process with
the Kurds was a “credit-positive step,” before raising the
country to investment grade on May 16.  Kurdish militants have started to withdraw from Turkey and
the number that have left may be a little above 15 percent to 20
percent of the total, Bulent Arinc, deputy prime minister, said
in a televised interview on state-run TRT Haber TV on July 29.  “The prime minister and we as the government are going to
pursue the resolution process until its end,” he said. “We see
this as  Turkey ’s last, big chance.”  The government needs to push through parliament a series of
changes by November to keep talks intact, Hasip Kaplan, a
legislator with the pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party, said
by telephone on July 31. Those changes include an amnesty for
PKK fighters allowing them to return after laying down arms in
northern  Iraq , and abolition of a 10 percent election threshold
needed to gain seats in parliament, he said.  Tricky Commitments  HT newspaper’s report cited Ocalan’s relatives who visited
him in prison on July 29. Members of PKK may begin to return
unarmed from Oct. 15, Hurriyet newspaper reported two days
later, citing Ocalan, without revealing how it got the
information.  Erdogan’s ruling  Justice and Development Party  may find it
“tricky” to make such political commitments in the wake of
anti-government protests that roiled the country in June, Tim Ash, chief emerging-market strategist at Standard Bank in
 London , said in an e-mail on Aug. 1.  “The Kurds will now be somewhat loathe to go back to
fighting, Ash said. “This is still the best chance they have of
a lasting agreement.”  Yields Fall  The  yield  on two-year notes fell 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 8.73 percent at 11:07 a.m. in Istanbul.
That pared an increase since the yield fell to a record low on
May 17 to 394 basis points as demonstrations spread across
Turkey and speculation grew the  Federal Reserve  will scale back
stimulus measures that fueled a rally in emerging-market assets.  The lira fell less than 0.1 percent to 1.9263 per dollar.
The currency has slumped 6.9 percent in the past three months,
the most after  South Africa ’s rand among emerging-market
currencies in Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa.  Default swaps on Turkey were little changed at 206 basis
points after rising three basis points to 205 on Aug. 2. The
contracts, which increase as perceptions of creditworthiness
deteriorate, pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  “If there is a positive outcome to the peace talks, then
Turkish assets will see significant revaluation,” Sozer said.
“But this won’t happen overnight. It will take years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Onur Ant in Ankara at 
 oant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  