-- Pro Football Hall of Fame Lineman Donovan Dies at 88
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-05T17:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/pro-football-hall-of-fame-lineman-art-donovan-dies-at-88.html
(Corrects final score in last paragraph)  Art Donovan, who won back-to-back
National Football League championships with the  Baltimore Colts 
in 1958-59 and was the franchise’s first player to enter the Pro
Football Hall of Fame, has died. He was 88.  Donovan, a defensive tackle, was selected to the All-NFL
team five times during his 12-year playing career. He was a
member of the Hall of Fame’s sixth class in 1968, elected in his
second year of eligibility. In addition to his contributions on
the field, Donovan was known as a morale builder with his sharp
wit and contagious laughter, according to his biography on the
 Hall of Fame’s website .  “Art was a true legend of professional football and he
will be deeply missed,” Hall of Fame President Steve Perry said
in a statement a day after this year’s class was inducted into
the Canton, Ohio, shrine.  Donovan grew up in the Bronx,  New York , and began his NFL
career with the Colts in 1950 as a 26-year-old rookie after
serving in World War II. After winning a total of three games
over his first three NFL seasons with the Colts, New York Yanks
and Dallas Texans, Donovan returned to Baltimore and helped the
franchise develop into a championship team.  Led by quarterback Johnny Unitas and coach Weeb Ewbank, the
Colts in 1958 beat the New York Giants 23-17 in overtime for the
NFL championship, a nationally televised matchup the Hall of
Fame said became known as “The Greatest Game Ever Played” and
helped spread professional football’s popularity across the U.S.
The Colts won the title again the following season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  