-- Rain to Rupee Boost Steel as Festivals Approach: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-08-06T04:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/rain-to-rupee-boost-steel-as-festivals-approach-corporate-india.html
Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) ,  Steel Authority of
India Ltd.  and  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL)  may raise prices by 3 percent this
quarter as monsoon rains, festivals, and expensive imports stoke
domestic demand, a Bloomberg News survey found.  The nation received the best start to  monsoon  rainfall this
year since 1994, Indian Meteorological Department data show. The
rains, the main source of irrigation for the nation’s 235
million farmers, help drive rural spending on cars,  consumer
goods  and construction. A festive season considered auspicious
for purchases starts next month with a celebration for the
elephant-headed Hindu god of wisdom, Ganesha, and culminates
with Diwali, the festival of lights.  “The automotive firms are low on inventory and we expect
them to start restocking anytime from the second week of August,
if they want to target sales during the festivals,” Jayant Acharya, director at JSW Steel,  India ’s third-biggest producer,
said in an interview. “The alloy prices have bottomed out and
we expect it will be ably supported by higher demand and the
steep fall in the rupee.”  Higher demand and firmer prices will help Indian
steelmakers recover from the slowest sales growth in at least
five years in the quarter ended June 30. Steel Authority, the
country’s second-biggest maker, is forecast to report its lowest
quarterly net income in nine years, while Tata Steel’s profit
may decline by more than 50 percent, according to analysts’
estimates. JSW Steel swung to  a loss  in the three months to June
30 from a profit a year earlier.  Rupee’s Decline  The rupee has lost 11.7 percent against the dollar since
March 31 in  Asia ’s worst performance. The rupee weakened 1
percent to a record 61.47 per dollar as of 9:58 a.m. in Mumbai,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  “India will benefit from a falling rupee that will make
imports expensive,” said Giriraj Daga, an analyst at Nirmal
Bang Equities Pvt. in Mumbai. “Good monsoon will also push up
farm income, which will reflect in higher spending on automobile
purchases and housing activity, though with a lag.”  An increase in prices will be the first quarterly gain
since June 2012, the survey of seven industry participants
including steelmakers, traders, analysts and a government
official showed.  Following Peers  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP) , the nation’s second biggest
producer by market value, raised spot prices of steel plates by
1,500 rupees ($25) a ton, or 4.3 percent, while keeping contract
prices unchanged, Deputy Managing Director V.R. Sharma said in
 New Delhi  yesterday, citing the rupee’s decline and demand
improvement as reasons.  Tata Steel  shares  fell as much as 3.7 percent to 200.20
rupees in Mumbai trading today, the lowest since March 20, 2009,
while Steel Authority, declined 2.9 percent to 38.80 rupees. The
stock has fallen 57 percent this year. Smaller rival JSW Steel
dropped 3.6 percent to 508.55 rupees. The benchmark BSE S&P
Sensex slid 1.1 percent as of 10:06 a.m. local time.  Indian steelmakers will follow their counterparts in  China ,
the world’s biggest consumer, and  Japan  in raising prices. Hebei
Iron & Steel Group Co. and Jiangsu Shagang Group Co. increased
prices last month.  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp. (5401) , the
world’s second-largest steelmaker, settled with Toyota Motor
Corp. to raise steel sheet prices by 10,000 yen ($102) per ton,
or 10 percent, for the six months ending Sept. 30, the Nikkei
newspaper reported on July 23.  Softening Demand  “Steel prices have fallen 30 percent in two years as
 Europe  went into recession and on uncertain demand in China,”
said Rahul Jain an analyst at CIMB Securities India Pvt. in
Mumbai. “Indian prices also fell tracking world prices. Going
forward, prices can rise about 3 percent.”  In Europe, steelmakers are able to produce about 210
million metric tons a year, as much as 60 million tons more than
needed in a “normal market,” according to industry lobby group
Eurofer. In China steel demand appeared to be “softening” with
mills and traders reporting order declines, Macquarie Group Ltd.
wrote in a report July 4.  Monsoon-sown grain production in India this year may exceed
the all-time high of 131.3 million metric tons in the 2011-2012
season, Tariq Anwar, junior agriculture minister, said on July
30. As of Aug. 2, farmers planted rice, oilseeds and cotton in
about 12 percent more area than last year, according to
Agriculture Ministry data. A bigger harvest may help tame
inflation and revive the nation’s economic growth from a decade
low.  India’s economy  expanded less than 5 percent for a second
straight quarter as investments slowed, according to a May 31
government report.  The nation’s steel consumption rose 0.2 percent in the
three months ended June 30, the slowest pace in at least five
years, as demand for automobiles waned amid an economic
slowdown. Demand rose to 17.8 million metric tons in the three
months ended June 30 from a year earlier, according to initial
data from the steel ministry.  “Demand will pick up,” JSW Steel’s Acharya said. “Good
monsoon is already shaping up positive sentiment, helping in
reviving economic growth and spending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  