-- Rand Gains Second Day as Metals Rise on China Growth Prospects
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-08-05T08:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/rand-gains-second-day-as-metals-rise-on-china-growth-prospects.html
The rand advanced for a second day as
commodity prices rallied amid signs the economy of  China , the
biggest buyer of South African  raw materials , is stabilizing
after slowing for two straight quarters.  An increase in official manufacturing and services indexes
and gains in gauges of business expectations may bolster
confidence that Chinese Premier Li Keqiang’s policies are
helping prevent a deeper slowdown in growth. Mining production
in  South Africa  rebounded in June from a contraction the
previous month, while manufacturing output accelerated, reports
may show this week.  Data “suggests that the likelihood of a sharp slowdown in
Chinese economic activity over the next few months has reduced
somewhat,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand Merchant
Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “This should
be another factor providing support to risky assets” including
the rand, he said.  South Africa’s currency appreciated 0.3 percent o 9.8053
per dollar as of 10:27 a.m. in Johannesburg, extending Friday’s
1.4 percent gain. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due
December 2026 dropped nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, to 8.08 percent.  Mining production in Africa’s biggest economy probably
expanded 0.5 percent in June after a contraction of 0.7 percent
in May, a  report  may show on Thursday, according to the median
estimate of four economists in a Bloomberg survey. Manufacturing
growth  accelerated  to 4.3 percent from 2.2 percent, a separate
report may show the same day.  Raw Materials  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of raw materials gained as
much as 0.4 percent as prices of metals including copper and
platinum rose. Commodities account for more than 50 percent of
South Africa’s exports, according to government data. China
accounted for 14 percent of all exports in the five months
through May, according to the South African Revenue Service.  China’s non-manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index rose
to 54.1 in July from 53.9, the first acceleration since March,
government data showed on Aug. 3, following an unexpected gain
last week in a manufacturing PMI. Readings above 50 indicate
expansion. A services index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics was unchanged at 51.3, a separate report showed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  