-- Treasuries Fall as Report Shows Services Expansion Tops Estimate
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-08-05T21:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/treasuries-are-world-s-worst-performing-bonds-before-services.html
Treasuries fell as a report showed
 service industries  expanded more than forecast in July, adding
to signs the  U.S. economy  is improving and boosting speculation
the  Federal Reserve  may reduce its stimulus program by year-end.  Benchmark 10-year notes  slid  for the past two weeks as
traders bet growth is fast enough to allow the Fed to trim bond
buying, even after data showed employers added fewer jobs than
economists forecast last month. The unemployment rate dropped to
the lowest level since 2008. Fed Bank of Dallas President
 Richard Fisher  said the central bank is closer to slowing its
purchase program. The U.S. is scheduled to sell $72 billion of
three-, 10- and 30-year securities this week.  “The data continues to be supportive,” said  Sean Murphy ,
a trader in New York at Societe Generale SA, one of the 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “The drop in the
unemployment rate keeps the tapering hopes alive for the
September meeting.”  The benchmark  10-year yield  rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.63 percent at 4:59 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note
maturing in May 2023 fell 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000 face
amount, to 92 14/32.  Investors in U.S. government securities have lost 2.6
percent this year, according to the  Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond
Index. (BUSY)   U.S. debt  gained 2 percent in 2012.  Services Expand  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
index increased to 56 July from 52.2 the prior month, a report
from the Tempe, Arizona-based group showed today. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists called for a gain
to 53.1.  “It’s really strong data,” said Thomas Simons, a
government-debt economist in New York at Jefferies LLC, one of
the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “The ISM
suggests the economy in general is doing well. We’ll be setting
up for the auctions this week. It probably will dictate we go a
little bit higher from here.”  The U.S. is scheduled to sell $32 billion of three-year
notes tomorrow, $24 billion of 10-year debt the next day and $16
billion of 30-year bonds on Aug. 8, raising $2.4 billion of new
cash as investors will redeem $69.6 billion of securities.  “It’s all about the supply,” said  Thomas Roth , senior
Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA
Inc. “Will people view this as a buying opportunity or will
they be concerned that we’re moving to higher rates?”  Fed Tapering  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage
debt each month to put downward pressure on  interest rates . The
central bank today purchased $1.5 billion in Treasuries maturing
between February 2036 and November 2042. Policy makers are
discussing whether the economy has improved enough for them to
start reducing the purchases.  The Fed’s Fisher, one of the most vocal critics of the
central bank’s purchase program, known as quantitative easing,
warned investors not to rely on that stimulus.  “Financial markets may have become too accustomed to what
some have depicted as a Fed ‘put,’” or the idea that the
central bank will loosen credit after a market decline, Fisher
said in a speech in Portland, Oregon. “Some have come to expect
the Fed to keep the  markets  levitating indefinitely. This
distorts the pricing of financial assets” and can lead to
“serious misallocation of capital.”  Fisher, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, said
in his prepared remarks that a decision to slow purchases is
“closer to execution mode” with the  unemployment rate  having
fallen last month to 7.4 percent.  The U.S. 10-year yield slid 11 basis points on Aug. 2 after
the Labor Department said nonfarm payrolls increased 162,000
last month, compared with a median forecast for 185,000. The
unemployment rate dropped from 7.6 percent.  Yield Curve  Two years after  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of its
top rating, gross domestic product is forecast to grow 2.7
percent in 2014, the fastest of any Group-of-10 nation, surveys
of economists by Bloomberg show. The  budget deficit  is the
narrowest since 2008.  The  spread  between Treasury five- and 10-year yields was
1.24 percentage points, wider than that of higher-rated
sovereigns, showing fixed-income investors anticipate the U.S.
will grow faster than its peers, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  While an S&P managing director said in March other credit
raters would “catch up” to its downgrade, the company and
Moody’s Investors Service have since changed their outlooks to
“stable” from “negative.”  “The U.S. is really leading the way in the developed world
for recovery,” Kathleen Gaffney, a  money manager  in Boston for
 Eaton Vance Corp. (EV) , which oversees $261 billion, said on Aug. 2
in a telephone interview. “We’re at an important inflection
point where the economy really has the potential to pick up some
steam.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  