-- Revlon to Acquire Colomer Group for $660 Million
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-08-05T20:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/revlon-to-acquire-colomer-group-for-660-million.html
Revlon Inc. (REV) , the maker of cosmetics
under its namesake and Almay brands, agreed to buy the Colomer
Group for about $660 million in cash from  CVC Capital Partners 
to bolster its offerings to professional salon customers.  The acquisition is expected to close in the fourth quarter,
New York-based Revlon said today in a statement. The takeover
will be financed using funds underwritten by Citigroup Inc.  Revlon, which has been introducing new products and buying
brands as sales in some of its larger lines slow, is following
rivals such as  Procter & Gamble Co . and Unilever in adding
salon-focused businesses. The takeover announced today gives
Revlon the Creative Nail professional and Shellac nail polishes
as well as American Crew men’s haircare products.  “The acquisition does provide Revlon with access to a new
channel of distribution as well as new customers,” said David Wu, an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in  New York .  The profitability of professional cosmetics is among the
highest in the makeup industry, and sales to salons may improve
during the next year as the economy rebounds, Wu Said.  Revlon rose 6.8 percent to $26.16 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 80 percent this year,  compared  with a 20
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Other cosmetics companies have added products and services
aimed at salon customers. Unilever in 2011 bought Alberto-Culver
Co. for about $3.7 billion, giving it the Nexxus haircare brand.
P&G, the world’s largest consumer-products company, has added
salon brands such as Wella Illumina hair coloring.  The Colomer Group acquisition also will give Revlon some
geographic diversity. The company gets about half of its sales
from  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa  and about 40 percent
from the U.S., while Revlon got 56 percent of its sales from the
U.S. last year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  