-- Romania Unexpectedly Speeds Up Rate Cuts to Record-Low 4.5%
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-08-05T14:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/romania-lowers-main-rate-more-than-forecast-to-record-low-4-5-.html
Romania cut its main  interest rate 
more than economists forecast and central bank Governor Mugur
Isarescu indicated further easing, a sign policy makers are
growing more confident of meeting their inflation target.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  cut its benchmark rate today
by half a point to a record-low 4.5 percent from 5 percent,
according to an e-mailed statement from the Bucharest-based
regulator. Thirteen of 14 economists in a  Bloomberg survey 
predicted a reduction to 4.75 percent, while one expected
borrowing costs to stay unchanged.  Policy makers are accelerating monetary easing after
cutting rates a quarter point in July as inflation is set to
slow, making room for monetary stimulus. The nation is seeking
to build investor confidence further after agreeing with
international lenders last week on a new 4 billion-euro ($5.3
billion) precautionary loan as protection from turmoil on global
financial markets.  “There’s more room to reduce rates,” Isarescu told
reporters in Bucharest today. “We mostly focused on the general
inflation trend. The inflation rate will post a significant
downward move in the next two month because of the base
effect.”  The central bank also has “reasons to proceed with”
reducing reserve ratios in a “gradual” way to avoid an
“unpleasant moment,” Isarescu says.  Leu Rally  The Romanian leu has strengthened 0.9 percent against the
euro this year, the third-best performance among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Chinese  yuan 
and the Mexican peso. It traded 0.3 percent stronger at 4.4110
per euro as of 5:01 p.m. in Bucharest.  Romanian policy makers, who restarted easing last month
after a pause of more than a year, are accelerating rate cuts
just as other countries in the region are nearing the end of
their cycles.  Poland’s central bank ended its monetary easing last month,
Governor  Marek Belka  said after the Narodowy Bank Polski trimmed
its benchmark rate to a record 2.5 percent on July 3.  Hungary ’s
policy makers indicated they would slow the pace of reductions
to fine-tune policy after quarter-point cuts in each of the past
12 months, bringing their benchmark to an all-time low of 4
percent on July 23.  ‘Bold Move’  “This is a bold move by the” Romanian “central bank in
an environment in which other regional central banks have opted
to keep rates unchanged --  Poland  -- or to possibly reduce the
pace of easing -- Hungary,” Abbas Ameli-Renani, an economist at
 Royal Bank of Scotland  Group in  London , said in an e-mail.  Inflation accelerated to 5.4 percent in June from 5.3
percent in May. Price growth will probably slow more quickly
than earlier expected because of “the strong downward
pressure” stemming from the reduction of the value-added tax
for some food items including bread to 9 percent from 24 percent
from September, Ameli-Renani said.  The central bank’s quarterly inflation report, to be
released Aug. 7, “foresees faster disinflation in the period
ahead, along with a pick-up in economic growth,” Isarescu said.  The consumer-price index may have been less than 4.5
percent last month as changes in inflation are bigger than the
central bank’s previous forecast, Isarescu said.  Further Cuts  The rate decision “reflects several factors, including a
growing conviction that inflation will fall back by the end of
this year and the insurance offered by a new precautionary
stand-by arrangement with the IMF,”  Neil Shearing , chief
emerging-markets economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London,
said by e-mail. “Further cuts may now be likely and are nudging
down our end-year forecast for rates to 4 percent.”  The IMF and the European Union said on July 31 that they
reached a staff-level agreement with Romania on the
precautionary facility, the country’s third loan accord in five
years. The fund predicts the economy will grow about 2 percent
this year and 2.25 percent in 2014, spurred by rising exports
and recovering domestic demand next year, according to Andrea
Schaechter, the lender’s mission chief to the country.  Economic growth may exceed 2 percent this year, according
to the central bank’s projection, Isarescu said.  Romania  stopped an easing cycle with a rate cut in March
2012 after a drought stoked food prices and utility bills rose
following a pledge to the IMF to free energy prices.  Gross domestic product  advanced 2.2 percent from a year
earlier in the first quarter, accelerating from a 1.1 percent
pace in the previous three months. The economy will grow 1.9
percent this year, exceeding the previous forecast of 1.6
percent because of a pickup in export demand, Budget Minister
Liviu Voinea said on July 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  