-- Rusal Says Aluminum Costs to Stay High as LME Tackles Waits
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-08-05T15:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/rusal-says-aluminum-premiums-to-stay-high-as-lme-tackles-backlog.html
United Co. Rusal, the world’s biggest
aluminum producer, said elevated premiums are supported by
demand and financing deals as the London Metal Exchange tries to
ease backlogs in its warehouses that drew complaints from users
including MillerCoors LLC.  The LME, which oversees more than 700  warehouses  worldwide,
proposed rules last month to cut waiting times for withdrawals
at some sites. Premiums paid by aluminum users rose in recent
months as warehouse operators offered incentives to attract the
metal into storage, forcing consumers of the lightweight metal
to compete. Analysts from Barclays Plc to Macquarie Group Ltd.
and Credit Suisse Group AG have forecast premiums to drop if the
LME implements proposed changes.  “Apart from the implied role of warehouse practices
driving up premiums, Rusal firmly believes that the broader
industry context is greatly supportive of the premiums paid in
the market today,” Steve Hodgson, Rusal’s director for sales
and marketing, said in an e-mailed comment to Bloomberg.
“Aluminum premiums are high because there are alternative
buyers for the metal other than Western world consumers.”  Financing arrangements are yielding a profit of 4 percent
to 5 percent a year and and may remain at current levels,
Hodgson said. As much as 80 percent of aluminum tracked by the
LME is tied up in financing deals, according to Societe Generale
SA. Financing typically involves the purchase of metal for
nearby delivery and a forward sale to take advantage of a market
in contango, where prices rise into the future. The transactions
are being helped by record-low borrowing costs after central
banks cut  interest rates  to boost economic growth.  Low-Cost Storage  “As long as cash-and-carry deals remain attractive,
aluminum will continue to be drawn into low-cost storage
locations and locked for as long as the contango supports the
trade,” Hodgson said. Contango is currently providing
sufficient incentive to enter new financing deals through to
December 2014, he said.  Aluminum for three-month delivery fell 0.6 percent to
$1,798 a ton by 4:25 p.m. on the LME, down 13 percent for the
year. Metal for immediate delivery traded as much as $47.75 a
ton lower than the contract for delivery in three months on July
31, the widest contango since 2008.  Premiums in  Europe  and  North America  have been falling in
recent weeks because of seasonally slower demand and because
some stock holders started to reduce positions on expectations
of changes in the LME rules, Hodgson said. The LME proposed
obliging warehouses where withdrawals take more than 100 days to
deliver out more metal than they take in. The proposed rules
will take effect April 1 if they’re approved by the exchange’s
board.  Realized Premium  The surcharge, added to the price of immediate-delivery
aluminum on the LME, fell to $250 to $275 a ton in the past week
in Rotterdam from $270 to $295 in June, the London-based
researcher CRU said last week. The premium last touched $250 in
July 2012. Rusal achieved a record-high realized premium on its
metal in the first quarter of $264 a ton, according to a
presentation on its website. Premiums may decline another 25
percent by year-end, Barclays said in an Aug. 1 report.  While some analysts have forecast a drop in premiums,
drawing an analogy with 2010, when waits in Detroit and
Vlissingen warehouses were 100 days, it would be “misleading”
to make such a parallel, Hodgson said. The aluminum market,
excluding  China , will have a deficit of 200,000 metric tons,
compared with a 660,000-ton surplus in 2010, Hodgson said. About
800,000 tons of aluminum capacity closed or was disrupted since
the start of the year, and the number will rise to almost 1
million tons by the end of 2013, he said.  ‘Tight’ Market  “The market will remain very tight for the foreseeable
future, with additional uncontracted fresh production likely to
be sold directly to consumers who have continued to purchase
directly from smelters throughout the period of time that queues
have formed,” he said.  Consumers led by brewer MillerCoors told a U.S. Senate
hearing last month that banks and other warehouse owners are
using “unfair” LME rules to slow deliveries. Rusal is still
preparing its submission to the LME regarding the proposed
change and will share it with the exchange in “due course,”
Hodgson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  