-- SAC Manager Steinberg Seeks to Question Some Witnesses
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-08-05T18:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/sac-manager-steinberg-seeks-to-question-some-witnesses.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio
manager Michael Steinberg, who faces a criminal insider-trading
trial in November, wants to question witnesses in a related
civil lawsuit by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Steinberg is defending both a criminal case brought by the
U.S. Attorney in New York and a civil lawsuit by the SEC. In a
court filing today in the SEC case, Steinberg asked a judge for
permission to question witnesses and review documents. Gaining
access to witnesses and evidence in the SEC’s case may help
Steinberg defend himself against criminal charges.  “The U.S. Attorney’s Office and the SEC chose to
simultaneously charge Mr. Steinberg with serious criminal and
civil violations of the federal securities law,” his lawyer,
Barry Berke, said in a filing today in the SEC’s lawsuit.  Steinberg, a long-serving SAC portfolio manager, is accused
of trading in shares of  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  based on
illegal inside tips. He denies wrongdoing.  Prosecutors previously asked U.S. District Judge Harold Baer in Manhattan, who is presiding over the SEC suit, to halt
proceedings in that case until after the criminal trial is
concluded.  Lawyers for Steinberg, whose conspiracy and securities
fraud trial is scheduled for Nov. 18, said they want to question
certain witnesses under oath. The witnesses include individuals
who have testified for the government at other insider-trading
trials and current and former employees of Dell and Nvidia.  Steinberg did not ask to question former SAC analyst Jon
Horvath, who is cooperating with prosecutors and who allegedly
leaked him the tips.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Steinberg, 12-cr-00121, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  