-- San Francisco Gasoline Falls With Shell Plant at Planned Rates
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-08-05T21:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/san-francisco-gasoline-falls-with-shell-plant-at-planned-rates.html
Spot gasoline in  San Francisco 
weakened for the first time in three days as  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  said the Martinez refinery in Northern  California  was
running at planned rates.  The 165,000-barrel-a-day refinery, northeast of San
Francisco, reported an unscheduled unit shutdown early yesterday
because of a lack of nitrogen at the site, a notice to Contra
Costa County regulators shows. Destin Singleton, a Shell
spokeswoman in Houston, declined to comment on the unit shut and
said the refinery is “operating as planned.”  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in the Northern
California area dropped 3.5 cents to a discount of 10.5 cents a
gallon versus gasoline contracts traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , data compiled by Bloomberg at 4:14 p.m. New
York time show. Prompt-delivery tumbled 7.91 cents to $2.8456 a
gallon.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ’s 170,000-barrel-a-day Golden Eagle refinery
reported unit startups on July 19 and July 20, separate notices
to Contra Costa County show.  Carbob in Los Angeles slipped 2.5 cents to a discount of
9.5 cents a gallon.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s El Segundo refinery, the largest in the
state, plans to flare gases through Aug. 7, a notice to the
South Coast Air Quality Management District shows. The flaring
isn’t due to a breakdown, according to the notice. The plant was
scheduled to shut the No. 2 crude unit this month for
maintenance, a person familiar with the work said June 13.  Wilmington Hydrogen  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD) ’s Wilmington plant, which
supplies hydrogen to refineries in the  Los Angeles  area, plans
to perform a valve replacement tomorrow that may cause flaring,
Art George, a spokesman at the company’s headquarters in
Allentown,  Pennsylvania , said by e-mail today. The plant will
continue to supply customers during the work and return to
normal rates the following day, he said.  Retail gasoline  in California dropped 0.4 cent to $3.953 a
gallon, Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the nation’s largest
motoring organization, said today on its website.  California-grade, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles slipped
0.25 cent against ultra-low-sulfur diesel futures on the Nymex
to a premium of 4.50 cents a gallon. The same fuel in San
Francisco was unchanged at 4 cents a gallon above futures.  Low-sulfur diesel in  Portland ,  Oregon , a benchmark for the
U.S. Pacific Northwest, was also unchanged at 3 cents a gallon
over futures.  Conventional gasoline in Portland weakened for a third day,
losing 2.5 cents to a discount of 4.5 cents a gallon below Nymex
futures, a two-week low.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles narrowed for a
fourth day, losing $2.07 to $11.51 a barrel at 4:16 p.m.  New
York  time. The spread, a rough indicator of refining profits, is
the smallest since January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  