-- Sebelius Hits Critics of Health Law for Misstating Costs
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-08-05T21:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/sebelius-hits-critics-of-health-law-for-misstating-costs.html
U.S. Health Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  criticized Republican state leaders warning of big
premium increases due to the Affordable Care Act, saying today
that their numbers are “just factually incorrect.”  Republican officials in Georgia,  Indiana  and  Ohio  have
predicted premium increases of as much as 200 percent as one of
the law’s chief components, online insurance marketplaces, take
effect. Leaders in Democratic-led states including  New York  and
 California  have said smaller increases or savings will occur
when subsidies accompanying the law are included.  Sebelius also said her department wasn’t worrying about a
“pretty dismal” effort by conservative groups to discourage
young people from signing up for the health law’s new insurance
plans. Two months before enrollment begins for the online
exchanges, the project is on schedule, the secretary said in a
conference call with reporters.  “We are on target and ready to flip the switch on Oct.
1,” Sebelius, secretary of the U.S. Department of  Health and
Human Services , told reporters. The markets “are already
increasing competition and giving consumers a better deal.”  Congressional analysts project the online markets will
attract about 7 million people in their debut next year, when
the law bans insurers from rejecting consumers with medical
conditions. To keep the system financially stable, the White
House has said it needs about 2.7 million of the new enrollees
to be young, healthy customers.  Burning Cards  That sales pitch is running into warnings from Republicans
that younger customers will see premiums  soar . FreedomWorks, a
group tied to the Tea Party movement, is campaigning to
discourage people from signing up, with rallies to burn
“Obamacare  draft cards ,” evoking campus protests in the 1960s
against the  Vietnam War .  Sebelius said she has no idea how the opposition may affect
her effort and isn’t spending time trying to figure it out.
Without naming specific states, she said some had issued
misleading numbers -- for example, presenting an average premium
increase as the raise every customer would face.  “We’re just going to continue to proceed and talk to
people about the benefits of health insurance, the fact that
they’ll have very affordable insurance in every market,” she
said.  September Premiums  Premiums for all the states will be available in September,
an administration official said on the call. The official spoke
on condition of anonymity because only the secretary was
authorized to make public statements.  Messages weren’t immediately returned by Glenn Allen, a
spokesman for  Georgia ’s insurance commissioner and Dennis
Rosebrough, a spokesman for  Indiana ’s insurance department.
Robert Denhard, a spokesman for the Ohio insurance department,
declined to comment on the remarks by Sebelius.  Georgia consumers will see “massive increases” of as much
as 198 percent, Insurance Commissioner Ralph Hudgens said in a
 statement  July 30.  “I was always skeptical of Obamacare” Hudgens said. “But
I never imagined that it would lead to rates being doubled or
tripled. Increases of this magnitude will make coverage less
affordable and increase the number of uninsured in Georgia.”  Sebelius said the department was moving ahead with plans to
build and publicize the exchanges, even as it struggles with
 federal budget  cuts and congressional Republicans’ refusal to
provide additional money for the program.  The administration today unveiled a feature on its website
that will help consumers start filling out the application for
coverage immediately. It also announced a call center devoted to
helping small businesses use the markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  