-- South Africa Power Plants Seen at Risk of Coal Shortfall by 2015
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-08-05T08:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/south-africa-power-plants-seen-at-risk-of-coal-shortfall-by-2015.html
South Africa  needs to invest as much
as 90 billion rand ($9 billion) in new coal mines to supply
power plants that are at risk of running short of the fuel as
soon as 2015, an industry study found.  While some of the growing demand from power stations can be
satisfied by extending current coal projects, “the majority
will need to be met from new mines,” the  Green House , a Cape
Town-based consultant, said in its Coal Roadmap report obtained
by Bloomberg.  Disagreement between mining companies and state utility
Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. over returns on investment has delayed
new coal ventures. The fuel is needed to feed new plants being
developed by Eskom, which generates almost all the nation’s
electricity, and a shortage would raise the risk of power cuts.  Eskom participated in the Green House study, along with
 Anglo American Plc (AGL) ,  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) ,  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) ,  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and the government departments of mineral
resources and energy. Industries are seeking to avoid a repeat
of power shortages that halted mines and factories in 2008.  Eskom is spending about $50 billion revamping old plants
and building new generators including Kusile and Medupi, set to
be the world’s third- and fourth-largest coal-fired stations.  Based on Eskom’s projections that it will need an
additional 60 million metric tons of coal a year by 2020, the
study estimates five to 10 new mines will have to be built at a
total cost of 60 billion rand to 90 billion rand.  Plant Operations  While Eskom expected most of its power stations to run for
40 years and signed corresponding coal-supply deals, many have
run at higher capacity and for longer than planned, according to
the study. The utility has also resumed output at three
mothballed plants whose coal supplies had been reallocated.  “Eskom’s originally contracted coal mines are consequently
insufficient for its planned consumption of coal,” the study
showed. The utility “still needs to secure, contract and build
the mines to provide about 2 billion tons of the estimated 4
billion tons it requires to supply its current power stations.”  The study outlined four scenarios, two of which envisioned
increased use of coal and two outlining a greater role for
nuclear and renewable energy. All options see coal being part of
the energy mix beyond 2040.  South Africa’s installed power capacity is likely to
increase to 88,070 megawatts to 124,725 megawatts by 2040 from
about 40,000 megawatts now, depending on how the country
responds to  climate change , the study found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  