-- SRA International Gets Investor’s Suit Over Buyout Tossed
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-08-05T21:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/sra-international-gets-investor-s-suit-over-buyout-tossed.html
SRA International Inc. persuaded a
judge to throw out an investor’s lawsuit challenging Providence
Equity Partners LLC’s $1.88 billion buyout of the provider of
computer services to the U.S. government.  SRA directors, including company founder Ernst Volgenau,
acted properly in accepting the private-equity firm’s
$31.25-per-share offer for the  defense contractor  as part of a
leveraged buyout, Delaware Chancery Court Judge John Noble in
Wilmington concluded today.  “The board’s decisions were rational and reasonable and
made in good faith,” Noble said. He threw out claims by the
 Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority  that it
didn’t receive enough for its SRA shares in the 2001 deal.  The decision comes as government contractors such as SRA
and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  are dealing with budget cuts tied to
the sequestration law’s mandates. Pentagon officials were forced
to make $37 billion in reductions this year. SRA officials said
in May that the cuts “adversely affected” the company’s fiscal
2013 financial performance.  Andrew Cole, an outside spokesman for Providence, declined
to comment on Noble’s decision. Cole is a managing director with
 Sard Verbinnen  & Co. in  New York .  Directors of Fairfax, Virginia-based SRA agreed in 2011 to
accept Providence’s $1.88 billion bid, amounting to a 10 percent
premium over the computer firm’s share price. As part of the
deal, SRA was slated to be led by its existing management, which
included Volgenau.  Opportunistic Sale?  Volgenau, who founded SRA in 1978 and held 21 percent of
its outstanding shares, stayed on as the company’s chairman. SRA
provides computer-networking and cyber-security services to the
U.S. Defense Department and other government agencies.  Philadelphia-based SEPTA, the nation’s fifth-largest public
transportation system by ridership, filed suit over the deal in
2011 arguing Volgenau “opportunistically” sought to take the
company private at a bargain price.  In his ruling, Noble concluded Volgenau’s push to sell the
company didn’t create conflicts of interest that tainted the
deal. SEPTA’s allegations that “Volgenau stood on both sides of
the transactions is not supported” by the evidence in the case,
the judge said.  SRA directors also were “fully informed” about the terms
of Providence’s bid and “exercised due care” in approving it,
he added.  Spending Cuts  Despite the mandated spending cuts, SRA officials said in a
May 9 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
they expect the U.S. government to continue funding cyber-security programs. In December, SRA bought MorganFranklin
Corp.’s National Security Solutions division, which provides
computer security, for about $34.2 million.  Last month, SRA agreed to  move  its headquarters to
Chantilly, Virginia as part of a cost-cutting effort. Chief
Executive Officer William Ballhaus has led a restructuring
effort at the company to focus more on cloud computing and cyber
security lines of business.  The case is Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation
Authority v. Volgenau, CA6354, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  