-- Stagnant South Korea Property Drags on Growth Rebound: Economy
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-08-05T01:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/stagnant-south-korea-property-drags-on-growth-rebound-economy.html
South Korea ’s worst  property-market 
slowdown since 2004 threatens to limit the economy’s rebound, as
the government’s stop-go policies to stimulate the housing
market fail to secure any sustained revival.  Apartment transactions in  Seoul  plunged 80 percent in July
from June, when temporary acquisition tax cuts expired,
according to data on the city’s website. National home prices
were flat or fell for 14 straight months through July, according
to Kookmin Bank, the nation’s largest mortgage lender.  Injecting life into the real-estate market was a key goal
for President Park Geun Hye when she took office in February,
rolling out on April 1 tax breaks to spur demand and supply-control measures to support prices. Now, a construction downturn
is adding to the risk of the nation missing the government’s 2.7
percent growth forecast for this year amid patchy demand for
exports and near-record  household debt .  “South  Korea ’s property market is sinking slowly, sapping
the growth potential of the economy,” said Oh Suk Tae, a Seoul-based economist at SG Securities. “Given the large share of
household wealth in real estate and the heavy reliance on
mortgages, consumers will continue to scrimp on spending unless
property prices make a sustained upswing.”  The weak housing market adds to the challenges for  Asia ’s
fourth-biggest economy. The Bank of Korea forecast on July 11
that growth will pick up from 2.8 percent this year to 4 percent
in 2014, the fastest since 2010.  Steps Planned  Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said in April when the
government unveiled its property-boosting measures that a
prolonged slump “can weigh on the entire economy.” In addition
to the acquisition tax cut that expired in June, the government
introduced tax breaks for first-time home-buyers with low
incomes and for multiple-home owners subject to  capital gains ,
both of which are set to expire at the end of the year.  The government is discussing how to cut housing purchase
tax to “normalize” the property market, and will prepare steps
by the end of August to be submitted to parliament, according to
a joint statement by the finance, land and public administration
ministries on July 22.  “Seoul’s housing transaction volume plunged in July and I
expect almost the same across the country,” said Lee Mi Yun, a
researcher at RealEstate 114, a Seoul-based real-estate
information company.  No Home Run  South Koreans aren’t buying homes because they don’t expect
prices to rise, said Lee at RealEstate 114. Lowering purchasing
costs through tax breaks in such an environment will likely
increase transactions but won’t lead to a dramatic rise in
trading, she said.  “We’ve watched repeated minor measures to spur housing
markets from the government. It’s like lots of bunts, but no
home run,” said Stephen Lee, an economist at Samsung Securities
Co.  Month-on-month  house prices  were unchanged across the
nation in July, while falling in cities including Seoul,
according to Kookmin Bank. Nationwide prices were down 0.9
percent from a peak in May last year after registering average
annualized gains of nearly 5 percent over the prior 13 years.  The biggest problem facing the housing market is declining
demand and “more than enough” properties, especially in the
Seoul metropolitan area, said Wayne Lee, a property market
analyst at Woori Investment & Securities.  Household Debt  South Korea’s property market is undergoing a transition
from emerging-market type that experienced an investment boom
for decades to a more mature market, said Woori’s Lee. To pick
up again,  interest rates  must decline and returns from renting
out properties must rise, he said.  “Unless these two conditions are met, buying a home won’t
be an attractive option,” Woori’s Lee said.  The government is balancing efforts to revive the property
market with concerns about rising household debt, which  Bank of
Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo said last week restricts growth
potential of the economy.  The impact of falling housing transactions will be larger
in the third quarter, as deals then won’t be subject to lower
acquisition taxes while the National Assembly won’t discuss
property measures that require its approval until September,
said Lee at Samsung Securities.  Growth in construction investment, which helped to drive an
expansion in second-quarter GDP, is set to slow, partly due to
slowing growth in housing completions, Samsung’s Lee said.  Construction Sputters  “The economy can’t grow up to 4-5 percent, its potential
growth rate before the global financial crisis, as long as the
property market remains sluggish,” said Oh at SG Securities.  Construction in South Korea has sputtered. Residential
building permits fell 24.4 percent in the first half of 2013
from a year earlier while housing starts dropped 19.2 percent,
according to land ministry data released July 28.  The KOSPI 200 Construction sub-index has lost 22 percent
this year, steeper than a 3.7 percent slide in the Kospi Index.  South Korea’s sagging property market contrasts with  Hong
Kong , where the government has taken steps to cool overheating,
and  China , where officials are trying to limit price gains and
the risk of asset bubbles. The cost of a new apartment in
Beijing jumped about 13 percent in June from a year earlier,
according to the statistics bureau. Singapore home prices
climbed to a record in the second quarter.  South Korea faces a slowdown in China, its biggest foreign
market, and a 28 percent jump in the won against the Japanese
yen over the past year that hurts its export competitiveness.  PMI Falls  South Korea’s exports increased 2.6 percent in July on year
after a 1.0 percent decline in June, the Ministry of Trade,
Industry and Energy said last week. A  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economic fell to 47.2 from
49.4 in June, indicating contraction.  In economic data around the world today, services
industries gauges will be released across  Europe  and in the U.S.
after an Aug. 3 release showed that China’s official measure
rose. Growth in U.S. service industries probably picked up in
July, indicating the biggest part of the economy is benefiting
from gains in hiring and a rebound in the housing industry.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
index will rise to 53.1 from June’s 52.2, the lowest level since
February 2010, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  