-- Suzano Keeps Rallying on Profit-Surge Forecast: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-08-05T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/suzano-keeps-rallying-on-profit-surge-forecast-corporate-brazil.html
Suzano Papel & Celulose SA is poised
to extend Brazil’s biggest rally on forecasts the pulpmaker’s
earnings growth will outpace the industry as a weaker currency
fuels an export boom.  The stock is likely to rise 18 percent in the next 12
months after surging 103 percent in the past year, according to
19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Salvador , Brazil-based Suzano
will post a sevenfold increase in earnings per share in 2014,
the most among the world’s 50 most-valuable pulp and paper
companies, the data show. That compares with estimated profit
growth of 150 percent for Johannesburg-based  Sappi Ltd. (SAP)   “Pulp prices are more stable than most people thought they
would be, and a weaker currency is a big help for an exporter,”
Mathias Wagner, who helps manage 430 million reais ($188
million), including Suzano shares, as a partner at Sao Paulo-based Orbe Investimentos, said in a telephone interview.  The Brazilian real lost 10 percent against the dollar this
year, the worst performance after  Argentina ’s peso and  South
Africa ’s rand among emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Prices for pulp, the paper-making raw material, rose
3.8 percent as plant closures from Brazil to  Norway  scrapped
900,000 tons of production capacity.  Maranhao Mill  Suzano’s profit is expected by analysts to increase as the
company starts a pulp mill in Maranhao,  Brazil , in the next
quarter. Sales from the $2.9 billion plant will help the  company
lower debt , which is at a 10-year high, Alan Glezer, an analyst
at Banco Bradesco SA, said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo. He rates the stock the equivalent of buy.  “The new plant sits in a place that is two days closer to
 Europe  than the existing one in Mucuri,” Glezer said. “It has
more efficient logistics, pushing Suzano into a deleverage cycle
that will be beneficial on many fronts.”  The Maranhao mill, along with two new plants in  Latin
America , will add about 8 percent to global capacity, which
should put pressure on pulp prices, said Alvaro Marangoni, who
helps manage 1 billion reais at Quadrante Investimentos Ltda.  He also said there is a risk of delay for the start of
Suzano’s plant, which is still under construction.  “The risk of this plant not coming online in the fourth
quarter is too high to be ignored,” Marangoni said in a
telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “Valuations for Suzano are
high and in the commodities sector I’d prefer to be more exposed
to Vale,” referring to Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale SA (VALE) , the
world’s largest iron-ore producer.  Debt Reduction  Suzano’s  stock is rated  a buy by nine analysts, eight say
hold and two recommend selling it, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Suzano trades at 23.8 times estimated 2014 earnings,
compared with a ratio of 6.1 for Vale and an average of 9.6 for
the stocks on Brazil’s benchmark Ibovespa index, the data show.  Suzano has gained 14 percent in Sao Paulo this year,
matching the advance of bigger competitor  Fibria Celulose SA. (FIBR3) 
Chile-based  Empresas CMPC SA (CMPC)  dropped 8.6 percent in Santiago.  Suzano declined to comment in an e-mailed statement to
 Bloomberg News . The company is in the quiet period and is slated
to report earnings Aug. 13 before market opens.  The pulp producer postponed plans to build the Piaui pulp
mill and a project to produce wood pellets to be used to produce
electricity as it focuses on  cutting debt , Chief Executive
Officer Walter Schalka said March 12 on an earnings conference
call.  Earnings before  interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization increased 40 percent to 327.3 million reais from
January through March, the first three-month period with Schalka
as head of Suzano.  Pulp Glut  “The new management seems to be committed to making
operations more efficient, with a focus on cost cutting,”
Orbe’s Wagner said. Orbe’s Value Master equity fund, in which
Suzano is the fifth-biggest holding, gained 6.6 percent in the
past year, beating 73 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Even with the ramp-up of new plants, average pulp prices
shouldn’t slump next year, as it takes time for new mills to
reach full capacity, Bradesco’s Glezer said. He estimates that
prices will drop to an average $750 a ton next year, from this
year’s $775 a ton.  “Suzano has new capacity coming online amid a weak real
that will boost shipments,” Glezer said. “They are well
positioned to profit the most from this scenario.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  