-- Swiss House Market Risks Increased in Second Quarter: UBS
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-08-05T06:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/swiss-house-market-risks-increased-in-second-quarter-ubs.html
Risks to the Swiss real estate market
intensified in the second quarter, raising questions as to
whether authorities have done enough to prevent an overheating
of the country’s property market.  The UBS Swiss Real Estate Bubble Index rose to 1.20 points
in the second quarter, from 1.17 points in the first, according
to a statement from  UBS AG (UBSN)  today. A reading above 2 would
indicate a bubble.  “The risks have again increased,” Matthias Holzhey and
Claudio Saputelli at UBS in Zurich said, adding that the
leveling off of the index’s rise meant that the probability of
“a speculative real estate bubble” had fallen. Even so, “the
risk of a price bubble is likely to increase again in the coming
quarters,” they said.  Swiss house and apartment prices have soared in recent
years, with mortgages kept cheap by the  Swiss National Bank ’s
loose policy. The central bank has held its benchmark  interest
rate  at zero since August 2011 and in September of that year
capped the franc at 1.20 per euro to shield the economy from the
crisis in the neighboring euro region.  Strong demand for housing, stemming in part from a high
number of skilled immigrants from neighboring European Union
countries, has helped the  construction industry  grow faster than
the economy as a whole in the past year,  government data  show.
Thanks to robust  consumer spending , Swiss growth outpaced
 Germany ’s in the first quarter.  Crisis Repeat  The KOF barometer, which seeks to predict the strength of
the economy in six months’ time, indicated that construction was
the main driver of the economy in July. According to the UBS
statement, second-quarter mortgage volume increased 4.3 percent
from a year earlier, exceeding a rise in disposable  household
income  of just 1.4 percent.  The regions considered particularly risky included Zurich,
Geneva, Lausanne, Lucerne, and Zug, according to the statement.  Keen to prevent a repeat of the property market crisis of
the 1990s, which hobbled economic growth for years, the SNB has
sounded the alarm about overheating and was behind the
introduction of a capital buffer for banks in February.  In June, SNB Vice President Jean-Pierre Danthine said he
hoped the economy would manage a soft landing and that a further
build-up of property risks could prompt the SNB to take further
regulatory measures. The SNB was regularly assessing whether an
adjustment of the capital buffer would be needed, Danthine also
said.  Mortgage Costs  The central bank may well ask the government to increase
the buffer this year, the newspaper Schweiz am Sonntag reported
yesterday, citing unidentified people familiar with the SNB’s
thinking.  Currently, the buffer of additional capital is set at 1
percent of risk-weighted assets tied to residential mortgages to
guard against losses on loans; it can be increase to as much as
2.5 percent. The rules, with which banks must comply by October,
follow guidelines set out a year ago to discourage risky
lending.  In a sign banks may be starting to pass on the higher costs
to clients, the cost of a 10-yr fixed-rate mortgage rose to 2.6
percent at end of the second quarter, compared with 2.2 percent
three months earlier, comparis.ch said on July 16.  In the 1990s, a collapse in  house prices  tipped the economy
into recession and caused the failures of banks including Spar-und Leihkasse Thun and Solothurner Kantonalbank.  The UBS real estate index comprises six sub-indicators
tracking the relationships between purchase and rental prices,
house prices and household income, house prices and inflation,
mortgage debt and income, construction and gross domestic
product, and the proportion of credit applications by UBS
clients for residential property not intended for owner
occupancy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  