-- U.K. Services Surge to Fastest in More Than Six Years
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-08-05T10:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/u-k-services-surge-to-fastest-growth-in-more-than-six-years.html
U.K.  services growth  accelerated more
than economists forecast last month to the fastest pace in more
than six years, adding to evidence Britain’s  economic recovery 
is gathering momentum.  A gauge of activity rose to 60.2 from 56.9 in June, the
highest since December 2006, Markit Economics and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said today in  London .
Economists forecast 57.4, according to the median of 30
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings above 50 indicate
expansion. A separate report showed  euro-area services  shrank
less than initially estimated.  Today’s report, the latest to suggest the economy continued
to strengthen at the start of the third quarter, comes two days
before  Mark Carney  is due to publish the  Bank of England ’s
latest economic forecasts. He’ll also release a report on the
implementation of forward guidance in the U.K. after the central
bank left its  quantitative-easing program  on hold last week.  “The U.K. economy is gaining momentum and therefore there
is little need for any further direct stimulus in the form of
rate cuts or QE,” said  James Knightley , an economist at ING
Bank NV in London. “Instead, it is about maintaining the
current accommodative monetary-policy environment to ensure the
recovery continues. This means of course forward guidance.”  The pound extended its advance against the dollar after the
report and traded at $1.5375 as of 10:29 a.m. London time, up
0.5 percent from Aug. 2.  Composite Index  Reports from Markit last week showed  U.K. manufacturing
growth  accelerated more than economists forecast in July, while
construction expanded the most in three years. Markit said a
composite index of its three surveys is now at a record high.  Signs of a strengthening economy may benefit Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party , which is trailing Labour in
polls. A  YouGov Plc (YOU)  survey for the Sunday Times newspaper
yesterday showed support for the Tories at 32 percent, with
Labour at 38 percent. The next election is due to be held in May
2015.  The BOE kept its target for bond purchases at 375 billion
pounds ($576 billion) last week and left its  benchmark interest
rate  at 0.5 percent. Carney, who joined the BOE last month from
the  Bank of Canada , will publish the U.K. central bank’s
quarterly Inflation Report at 10:30 a.m. on Aug. 7. In addition
to new forecasts, the report will include a review of forward
guidance after a request from the government on using the policy
tool in the U.K.  ‘Genuine Momentum’  Within services, sales rose last month at the strongest
rate since November 2006, while confidence jumped to a 15-month
high and payrolls increased, Markit said today.  “Although an early call on one month’s data, the forward-looking elements from the survey point to a further
strengthening of GDP,” said  Paul Smith , an economist at Markit
in London. “The service sector appears to have genuine momentum
with underlying economic conditions and business confidence
rising.”  In the U.S., the biggest part of the economy probably also
strengthened last month, economists said before a report today.
The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing index 
will rise to 53.1 from June’s 52.2, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Markit’s  services index  for the euro region rose to 49.8 in
July from 48.3 in June, exceeding an initial estimate of 49.6 on
July 24, it said today. A composite index of both manufacturing
and services rose to 50.5 from 48.7, topping the 50 mark for the
first time since January 2012.  China’s economy  is showing signs of stabilizing after
slowing for two straight quarters, with official manufacturing
and services indexes rising.  The  non-manufacturing   Purchasing Managers ’ Index increased
to 54.1 in July from 53.9, the first acceleration since March,
government data showed Aug. 3, following last week’s unexpected
gain in a manufacturing PMI. A  services index  from HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit was unchanged at 51.3, a separate report showed
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  