-- U.K. Seeks Answer From Spain Over Gibraltar Border Dispute
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-08-05T19:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/u-k-seeks-answer-from-spain-over-gibraltar-border-dispute-1-.html
Britain is seeking an explanation
from  Spain  after its foreign minister suggested a fee could be
imposed on travelers crossing the border with the U.K. territory
of Gibraltar, escalating a dispute between the two countries.  “The Spanish have not raised the prospect of border fees
with us,” Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman, Christian
Cubitt, told reporters in  London  today, declining to comment
directly on remarks made in the media yesterday by Jose Manuel
Garcia-Margallo.  Cubitt said U.K. officials are in “close contact” with
the Spanish authorities and are seeking a “political dialog”
on the issue. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told Gibraltar’s
Chief Minister Fabian Picardo today that the U.K. will
“continue to raise our concerns with Spain,” according to an
e-mailed statement.  Garcia-Margallo said yesterday Spain will step up controls
on Gibraltar following a dispute over fishing rights. Spain
would be entitled to impose controls as long as they are
“proportionate,” the European Commission said today.  Spokesman  Frederic Vincent  told reporters in Brussels that
the commission wrote to Spain about Gibraltar in the spring and
will “raise the issue with the Spanish authorities probably via
a meeting here in Brussels in September or October.”  Gibraltar, like the U.K., isn’t part of the European
passport-free travel zone, meaning that “controls of the border
of Gibraltar can happen, but they have to be proportionate,”
Vincent said.  Asked about Vincent’s comments, Cameron’s spokesman
declined to comment.  ‘Seriously Concerned’  Spanish tax authorities will investigate 6,000 people
domiciled in Gibraltar but living in Spain and a 50-euro
($66.38) levy may be imposed to cross the border, Garcia-Margallo told the ABC newspaper in an interview.  “Clearly we remain seriously concerned by events on the
Spanish-Gibraltar border,” Cubitt said. Cameron returns from
vacation later today as Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , who is
married to Spanish lawyer Miriam Gonzalez Durantez, begins his
holiday in Spain.  Hague said he urged Picardo “to avoid actions which could
increase tension further.”  “We discussed the need for a political solution to the
current tension with Spain, which would be firmly in the
interests of communities on both sides of Gibraltar’s border
with Spain,” he said. “We agreed that it was important to
respond to actions, not rhetoric.”  Spanish Politics  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has been trying to
change the subject after a month in which he’s been bombarded
with allegations he accepted illegal payments from a secret
party slush fund. Rajoy, who denies the claims, announced a
decline in jobless claims a day ahead of the official release
during his parliamentary testimony over the reports of
corruption and approved more than 20 decrees at his last Cabinet
before the summer break, most of them concerning employment.  Spain’s opposition Socialist Party attributed the move by
Rajoy’s ruling  People’s Party  to political swagger.  “The escalation of braggadocio over Gibraltar only leads
down a dead end,” Juan Moscoso, head of EU policy for the
socialists, said in a statement on his party’s website. “It
will only have very negative effects for the people, the workers
and the fisherman.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  