-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Hold; DreamWorks Plans First Bond Sale
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-05T21:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/u-s-company-credit-swaps-hold-dreamworks-plans-first-bond-sale.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
held at about a two-week low as a report showed  service
industries  in the U.S. expanded in July.  DreamWorks (DWA)  Animation
SKG Inc. plans to issue $300 million in seven-year bonds.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.1 basis point to a mid-price of 72.8 basis points as of 5:02
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure ended Aug. 2 at 72.7, the lowest since July 22.  Economic data is giving investors a mixed picture on when
to expect the  Federal Reserve  to begin tapering its $85 billion
in monthly bond buying that has bolstered credit markets, said
Dorian Garay, a  money manager  at ING Investment Management in
New York.  “We’re at a point where uncertainties about the timing of
tapering are high,” Garay said in a telephone interview. “The
market is still trying to find the right level in many
indicators” that may lead the central bank to reduce asset
purchases.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  DreamWorks Bonds  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
index increased to 56 in July, the fastest pace in five months,
from 52.2 in June, a report from the Tempe, Arizona-based group
showed today. Readings higher than 50 indicate growth in the
industries that make up almost 90 percent of the economy.  DreamWorks, the independent film studio and producer of
“Shrek” films, is planning to sell $300 million of debt in
seven-year notes in its first bond offering.  Proceeds from the sale will be used to repay loans under
its revolving credit facility, according to a company statement
today. Additional proceeds may be used for share buybacks and
acquisitions.  The new bonds may be rated Ba3 by Moody’s Investors
Service, according to a person with knowledge of the offering
who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Total Bonds  Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-largest oil producer, sold $3
billion of dollar-denominated bonds in four parts, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company issued $500 million of 1 percent debt due 2016
to yield 50 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
$1 billion of 2.125 percent, five-year notes at a relative yield
of 75 basis points and $1 billion of 3.7 percent securities
maturing in 2024 at a 110 basis-point spread, the data show. It
also sold $500 million of five-year floating rate notes to yield
57 basis points more than the three-month London interbank
offered rate.  The average extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade debt instead of similar-maturity Treasuries tightened 1
basis point to 127.8 basis points, Bloomberg data show. The
measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, securities
tightened 0.3 to 561.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 1.2 basis points to 363.5, Bloomberg data show.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  Moody’s Liquidity-Stress Index for U.S. speculative-grade
companies, which declines when corporate liquidity improves,
fell to 3.4 percent in July from 3.7 percent the month prior,
analysts led by John Puchalla wrote in an Aug. 2 report.  The gauge reached a record low of 2.8 percent in April, and
remains below its historical average of 7.2 percent.  “Liquidity conditions remain healthy with modest corporate
earnings growth and the recent favorable improvement in credit
markets,” the analysts wrote. The index “continues to reflect
a lack of widespread liquidity problems for U.S. speculative-grade companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in  New York  at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  