-- U.S. Fight Against Terror Must Evolve with Al-Qaeda
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-05T23:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/u-s-fight-against-terror-must-evolve-with-al-qaeda.html
Suicide bombers attack Turkish
embassy staff in Somalia. A rocket-propelled grenade slams into
the  United Arab Emirates ’s embassy in  Libya . Nine people are
killed when three men try to storm an Indian consulate in
Afghanistan.  Those recent incidents didn’t make nearly as much news as
this weekend’s pre-emptive U.S. response to intelligence reports
of a planned al-Qaeda attack: a wide-ranging travel warning and
the closing of 19 U.S. diplomatic facilities through Aug. 10.
Yet they still offer a useful lens on the best way to counter a
changing terrorist threat.  The first thing they tell us is that while the U.S. may be
an exceptional, if not  “indispensable,”  nation, it has plenty of
company as a terrorist target. In Yemen, for instance,  France ,
 Germany  and  the U.K.  also decided to close their embassies. And
for diplomats from other nations, the threat of mayhem has
become just another day in the office.  The second thing these attacks bring to mind is that it’s a
mistake to define “al-Qaeda” as a single entity directed from
above; it’s long been a collection of loose networks with a
shared ideology and a willingness to exchange “best practices.”
The recent  prison breaks  that led to the freeing of hundreds of
militants in  Pakistan ,  Iraq  and Libya are cases in point: They
may not have been coordinated, but they did follow similar
tactics and have similar goals.  Finally, these attacks and prison raids point as much to
the weakness of states as the strength of terrorists. Even if
countries such as Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Pakistan and Yemen
were more committed to protecting diplomatic facilities and
stopping prison raids, in many cases they lack the wherewithal
to do so. For the foreseeable future, the West will be dealing
with a bloc of weak states. The Long War will slide into the
Long Unease.  It’s worth remembering that the security of diplomatic
facilities ultimately rests with their host countries. If they
can’t or won’t provide it, then curtailing diplomatic
representation seems like a prudent option -- in the latter
case, with the pressure of reciprocal cuts imposed on their own
representation.  Likewise, outsiders can’t do much to prevent prison breaks
-- especially in the case of U.S. relations with  Afghanistan ,
Iraq and Pakistan. For all the strengths of the U.S.’s Supermax
prisons, exporting them probably won’t win many hearts and
minds. One thing the U.S. can do is continue holding off on
sending back to Yemen any of the 56 Yemeni detainees at Cuba’s
Guantanamo Bay camp who are now eligible for transfer or
release.  More broadly, al-Qaeda’s evolution will call for a more
discerning effort on the part of the U.S. and its allies. Not
every group that claims al-Qaeda’s mantle is worthy of
attention. And very few of the hundreds of prisoners set loose
recently from  Abu Ghraib  (now known as Baghdad Central Prison),
or the 1,000-plus from Benghazi’s Al-Kufiya prison, will ever
directly threaten the U.S. or its allies.  On the other hand, continued turmoil in Iraq, Syria and
Libya, let alone Afghanistan, Pakistan and Yemen, serves no
one’s interests but the militants’. The challenge ahead is to
engage the attention and effort of more countries -- an energy-hungry  China , for instance -- to promote regional stability. The
U.S. can’t close up diplomatic shop and walk away from the
 Middle East ’s trouble spots. But it also can’t stay there alone.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 