-- U.S. Milk Climbs as Fonterra Halt Seen Spurring Demand Elsewhere
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-08-05T10:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/u-s-milk-climbs-as-fonterra-halt-seen-spurring-demand-elsewhere.html
Milk rose the most in almost three
weeks in Chicago after an import ban by  China  and  Russia  on New
Zealand’s largest dairy exporter, Fonterra Cooperative Ltd.,
stoked speculation buyers will seek limited supplies elsewhere.  The ban was imposed on some milk powder after Fonterra said
the product may contain a bacterium that causes botulism. Global
milk supplies will remain tight until New Zealand’s production
rebounds in October, farm organization LTO-Nederland said in a
report on its website last week.  “This will probably drive prices higher”, said Alicia Forry, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in London. “In the
short term it will cause demand to shift to other areas around
the globe that might be able to step in and provide product.”  Class III milk futures for September delivery rose 37
cents, or 2 percent, to $18.79 per 100 pounds by 4:43 a.m. on
the  Chicago  Mercantile Exchange, the biggest gain for that
contract since July 16. Class III milk, which is used to make
cheese, climbed 1 percent this year. Trading was 88 percent of
the three-month average.  China is New Zealand’s largest export market for dairy and
a temporary blockage may see European and American companies
plug the shortfall, Forry said. The New Zealand dollar weakened
to as low as 76.93 U.S. cents, the lowest since July 8.  Fonterra Chief Executive Office Theo Spierings apologized
in Beijing today and said China will lift restrictions on its
products as soon as the company provides more information. The
ban currently affects whey protein for milk formula and not all
milk products.  “If China isn’t buying New Zealand’s milk, it’s still on
the market” and could depress the price, said Nicola Mallard,
analyst at Investec Securities Ltd. in  London .  There are no reports of illness related to consumption of
the affected products, Fonterra said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  