-- U.S. July ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-08-05T14:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/u-s-july-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. non-manufacturing conditions from the Institute for Supply
Management.  Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in July
for the 43rd consecutive month, say the nation’s purchasing and
supply executives in the latest Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business.  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M., CFPM,
chair of the Institute for Supply Management Non-Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The NMI registered 56 percent in
July, 3.8 percentage points higher than the 52.2 percent
registered in June. This indicates continued growth at a faster
rate in the non-manufacturing sector. The Non-Manufacturing
Business Activity Index increased substantially to 60.4 percent,
which is 8.7 percentage points higher than the 51.7 percent
reported in June, reflecting growth for the 48th consecutive
month. The New Orders Index increased significantly by 6.9
percentage points to 57.7 percent, and the Employment Index
decreased 1.5 percentage points to 53.2 percent, indicating
growth in employment for the 12th consecutive month. The Prices
Index increased 7.6 percentage points to 60.1 percent,
indicating prices increased at a significantly faster rate in
July when compared to June. According to the NMI, 16 non-manufacturing industries reported growth in July. Respondents’
comments are mostly positive about business conditions and the
overall economy.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE  The 16 non-manufacturing industries reporting growth in July --
listed in order -- are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Construction; Information;  Wholesale Trade ; Retail Trade;
Finance & Insurance; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Utilities; Educational Services;
Other Services; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Accommodation &
Food Services; Public Administration; and Transportation &
Warehousing. The two industries reporting contraction in July
are: Mining; and Health Care & Social Assistance.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING  “The economy seems to be getting stronger with commodity prices
increasing.” (Information) “Sequestration and healthcare reform
causing uncertainty and lower revenues.” (Health Care & Social
Assistance) “Business orders continue to grow, but at a slow
pace. We are seeing growth in areas where we have been flat for
many months. Economy seems to be stabilizing in some areas and
heating up in others.” (Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services) “The  auto industry  continues to be strong, and we
expect it to continue throughout 2013.” (Retail Trade)
“Competitive environment remains challenging.” (Accommodation &
Food Services) “Local business continues at same pace as last
year.  Capital investment  continues to be positive.” (Wholesale
Trade)  * Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business data is seasonally
adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices and
Employment. Manufacturing ISM Report On Business data is
seasonally adjusted for New Orders, Production, Employment and
Supplier Deliveries.
** Number of months moving in current direction  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price Airfares (3); Beef (8); Corrugated Boxes
(2); Corrugated Packaging; #1  Diesel Fuel  (3); Fuel (7);
Gasoline (3); Hotel Rates; Insurance; Paper Products; Pharmacy
Drugs (2); Pharmacy Supplies (2); Procurement Personnel; and
Software Maintenance.  Commodities Down in Price Computers and Peripherals is the only
commodity reported down in price.  Commodities in Short Supply Helium (2) is the only commodity
reported in short supply.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  JULY 2013 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  NMI  In July, the NMI registered 56 percent, indicating continued
growth in the non-manufacturing sector for the 43rd consecutive
month. A reading above 50 percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector economy is generally expanding; below 50
percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector is generally
contracting.  Business Activity  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index in July
registered 60.4 percent, 8.7 percentage points higher than the
51.7 percent registered in June. This month’s reading reflects
the highest reading for the index since December 2012, when the
index registered 60.8 percent. Twelve industries reported
increased business activity, and four industries reported
decreased activity for the month of July. Comments from
respondents include: “Large projects starting” and “Volumes are
slightly higher, mostly due to housing.”  The industries reporting growth of business activity in July --
listed in order -- are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Information; Utilities; Retail Trade; Construction; Wholesale
Trade; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Finance & Insurance;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; Accommodation & Food Services;
and Public Administration. The industries reporting decreased
business activity in July are: Educational Services; Health Care
& Social Assistance; Transportation & Warehousing; and Mining.  New Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in July for the
48th consecutive month. The index registered 57.7 percent, an
increase of 6.9 percentage points from the 50.8 percent reported
in June. Comments from respondents include: “Fiscal year-end
purchases are being executed based on forecasted budgets” and
“Increase in orders coming in.”  The nine industries reporting growth of new orders in July --
listed in order -- are: Retail Trade; Information; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Utilities; Management of Companies &
Support Services; and Finance & Insurance. The six industries
reporting contraction of new orders in July -- listed in order -
- are: Mining; Educational Services; Health Care & Social
Assistance; Public Administration; Accommodation & Food
Services; and Transportation & Warehousing.  Employment  Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in July
for the 12th consecutive month. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing
Employment Index registered 53.2 percent, which reflects a
decrease of 1.5 percentage points when compared to the 54.7
percent registered in June. Twelve industries reported increased
employment, and four industries reported decreased employment.
Comments from respondents include: “Employment ramp up” and
“Adding staff in anticipation of new store openings.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in July --
listed in order -- are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Construction;
Wholesale Trade; Finance & Insurance; Information; Educational
Services; Other Services; Transportation & Warehousing;
Accommodation & Food Services; Health Care & Social Assistance;
and Public Administration. The industries reporting a reduction
in employment in July are: Utilities; Management of Companies &
Support Services; Retail Trade; and Mining.  Supplier Deliveries  The Supplier Deliveries Index registered 52.5 percent in July,
indicating that supplier deliveries were slower in July for the
seventh consecutive month. A reading above 50 percent indicates
slower deliveries, while a reading below 50 percent indicates
faster deliveries.  The eight industries reporting slower deliveries in July --
listed in order -- are: Educational Services; Construction;
Information; Wholesale Trade; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Finance & Insurance; Public Administration;
and Health Care & Social Assistance. The two industries
reporting faster deliveries in July are: Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; and Mining. Eight industries reported no change in
supplier deliveries in July compared to June.  Inventories  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index grew in July for the
sixth consecutive month. The index registered 53.5 percent,
which is 1 percentage point lower than the 54.5 percent reported
in June. Of the total respondents in July, 27 percent indicated
they do not have inventories or do not measure them. Comments
from respondents include: “Supporting specific business needs”
and “Increased inventory to support additional new stores.”  The 10 industries reporting an increase in inventories in July -
- listed in order -- are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Mining; Accommodation & Food Services; Real Estate, Rental &
Leasing; Management of Companies & Support Services; Finance &
Insurance; Wholesale Trade; Transportation & Warehousing;
Utilities; and Construction. The five industries reporting
decreases in inventories in July are: Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing & Hunting; Public Administration; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; Health Care & Social
Assistance; and Information.  Prices  Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for purchased
materials and services increased in July for the 46th
consecutive month. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Prices Index for July
registered 60.1 percent, 7.6 percentage points higher than the
52.5 percent reported in June. In July, the percentage of
respondents reporting higher prices is 21 percent, the
percentage indicating no change in prices paid is 72 percent,
and 7 percent of the respondents reported lower prices.  Thirteen non-manufacturing industries reported an increase in
prices paid during the month of July, in the following order:
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Educational Services;
Accommodation & Food Services; Utilities; Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Retail Trade; Management of Companies & Support
Services; Transportation & Warehousing; Public Administration;
Wholesale Trade; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Finance & Insurance; and Health Care & Social Assistance. The
three industries reporting a decrease in prices paid during July
are: Mining; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; and Information.  Backlog of Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders contracted in July
after five consecutive months of growth. The index registered
46.5 percent, which is 5.5 percentage points lower than the 52
percent that was reported in June. Of the total respondents in
July, 35 percent indicated they do not measure backlog of
orders.  The two industries reporting an increase in order backlogs in
July are: Construction; and Transportation & Warehousing. The
nine industries reporting a decrease in order backlogs -- listed
in order -- are: Other Services; Mining; Public Administration;
Health Care & Social Assistance; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Information; Accommodation & Food Services;
Finance & Insurance; and Wholesale Trade. Seven industries
reported no change in order backlogs in July compared to June.  New Export Orders  Orders and requests for services and other non-manufacturing
activities to be provided outside of the  United States  by
domestically based personnel contracted for the second
consecutive month in July. The New Export Orders Index for July
registered 49.5 percent, which is 2 percentage points higher
than the 47.5 percent reported in June. Of the total respondents
in July, 59 percent indicated they either do not perform, or do
not separately measure, orders for work outside of the United
States.  The seven industries reporting an increase in new export orders
in July -- listed in order -- are: Utilities; Construction;
Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Retail Trade; Transportation &
Warehousing; Management of Companies & Support Services; and
Information. The seven industries reporting a decrease in export
orders in July -- listed in order -- are: Educational Services;
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Finance & Insurance;
Other Services; Wholesale Trade; Accommodation & Food Services;
and Professional, Scientific & Technical Services.  Imports  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index grew in July for the
second consecutive month. This month’s reading at 50.5 percent
is 3 percentage points lower than the 53.5 percent reported in
June. Fifty-five percent of respondents reported that they do
not use, or do not track the use of, imported materials.  The six industries reporting an increase in imports for the
month of July -- listed in order -- are: Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Utilities; Transportation & Warehousing; Management
of Companies & Support Services; Other Services; and Retail
Trade. The five industries reporting a decrease in imports for
the month of July are: Mining; Finance & Insurance; Information;
Accommodation & Food Services; and Wholesale Trade. Seven
industries reported no change in imports for the month of July
compared to June.  Inventory Sentiment  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in July
registered 64 percent, which is 2.5 percentage points higher
than the 61.5 percent reported in June. This indicates that
respondents believe their inventories are still too high at this
time. In July, 32 percent of respondents said their inventories
were too high, 4 percent said their inventories were too low,
and 64 percent said their inventories were about right.  The 12 industries reporting a feeling that their inventories are
too high in July -- listed in order -- are: Arts, Entertainment
& Recreation; Information; Mining; Utilities; Management of
Companies & Support Services; Retail Trade; Finance & Insurance;
Wholesale Trade; Health Care & Social Assistance; Public
Administration; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
and Accommodation & Food Services. No industry reported a
feeling that its inventories are too low in July.  About this Report  The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of non-manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). The Non-Manufacturing Business
Survey Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS
code categories: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Mining; Utilities; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Educational Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services;
Public Administration; and Other Services (services such as
Equipment & Machinery Repairing; Promoting or Administering
Religious Activities; Grantmaking; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-Cleaning & Laundry Services, Personal Care Services, Death Care
Services, Pet Care Services, Photofinishing Services, Temporary
Parking Services, and Dating Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New
Export Orders,  Inventory Change , Inventory Sentiment, Imports,
Prices, Employment and Supplier Deliveries), this report shows
the percentage reporting each response, and the diffusion index.
Responses represent raw data and are never changed. Data is
seasonally adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices
and Employment. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by
the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The
remaining indexes have not indicated significant seasonality.  The NMI (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index based on
the diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with equal
weights: Business Activity (seasonally adjusted), New Orders
(seasonally adjusted), Employment (seasonally adjusted) and
Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion indexes have the properties of
leading indicators and are convenient summary measures showing
the prevailing direction of change and the scope of change. An
index reading above 50 percent indicates that the non-manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining.
Supplier Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50
percent indicates faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business survey is sent out
to Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents the
first part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY report
on information for the current month. ISM receives survey
responses throughout most of any given month, with the majority
of respondents generally waiting until late in the month to
submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture of
current business activity. ISM then compiles the report for
release on the third business day of the following month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business monthly report, are listed
in the order of most growth to least growth. For the industries
reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed in the
order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the least
level of contraction/decrease.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the  Institute for Supply Management , the first supply
institute in the world. Founded in 1915, ISM exists to lead and
serve the supply management profession and is a highly
influential and respected association in the global marketplace.
ISM’s mission is to enhance the value and performance of
procurement and supply chain management practitioners and their
organizations worldwide.  The full text version of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business is posted on ISM’s website at www.ism.ws on the third
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the
August 2013 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on
Thursday, September 5, 2013.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  