-- Ultra Electronics Targets China Airliner by Adapting Weapons Kit
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-05T10:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/ultra-electronics-targets-china-airliner-by-adapting-weapons-kit.html
Ultra Electronics Holdings Plc (ULE) , a
maker of submarine-hunting equipment, is seeking work on the
Chinese Comac C919 airliner as it looks to expand its non-military business to about 50 percent of total sales.  The company is seeking to provide landing-gear controls and
fuel-tank safety systems through a joint venture with China
Merchants Group, Rakesh Sharma, chief executive officer at
Greenford, England-based Ultra, said in a phone interview today.  Ultra has been looking at commercial aerospace and other
civil activities to help drive growth as  defense spending  has
fallen in the U.S. and U.K. The company expects to reach about
50 percent of revenue from non-defense activities within the
next three years, based on existing contracts, Sharma said.  The project to provide a system to suppress fires in
aircraft fuel tanks would be a new business for Ultra, Sharma
said.  “What we anticipate is this year we will get a small study
contract and hopefully that will turn into a development
contract,” he said.  The technology is derived from equipment Ultra provides to
the military to eject bombs and missiles from combat planes
using compressed air, Sharma said. That can be adapted to deploy
nitrogen to stop a fire, he said.  Large Contracts  Ultra is also targeting work on an update that  Embraer SA (EMBR3) 
plans for its regional jets, building on ties in providing
equipment for the Brazilian planemaker’s KC-390 military
transport.  Brazil  may become a foothold for Ultra to increase
sales in South America, where Sharma said the company is trying
to expand.  Ultra today reported a 4.8 percent increase in first-half
pre-tax profit to 39.6 million pounds ($61 million) as revenue
retreated 0.7 percent to 367.7 million pounds. The company said
it is confident of meeting its expectations for the year.  The outlook for 2014 is showing signs of improving, Sharma
said, with several large contracts in the pipeline. The company
has moved to bid on larger deals by pooling resources more
effectively, he said.  Ultra continues to pursue acquisitions and is performing
due diligence on a target Sharma wouldn’t identify. Four more
possible deals are being looked at amid a pipeline of about 40
targets. The possible purchases are mainly in the range of 5
million pounds to 80 million pounds, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  