-- UnitedHealth Finds Savings With Employee Health Incentive
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-08-05T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/unitedhealth-finds-savings-with-employee-health-incentive.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest
U.S. health insurer, said it saved $107 million in medical costs
over three years by using incentives to persuade its employees
to lose weight, make healthier lifestyle choices and get
checkups.  In the program’s first year in 2010, 76 percent of
employees reduced their family insurance premiums by meeting
certain health goals, according to an  article  published today in
the journal Health Affairs. Twenty-seven percent achieved the
highest possible savings, cutting their premiums by $1,200, the
company said in the report.  The findings show that encouraging employees to become more
involved in their health can help reduce medical costs, the
UnitedHealth authors said. Such incentive-based programs have
been increasing in popularity, due partly to the new health-care
law. In May, the Obama administration gave businesses more power
to increase premiums for workers who fail to meet health goals.  “I think we are seeing greater and greater interest in
aligning interests in health care, to offer consumers incentives
to actually do what it is that will improve their health,”
Lewis Sandy, UnitedHealth’s senior vice president for clinical
advancement, said in a telephone interview.  UnitedHealth’s employees were rewarded for getting weight
blood pressure, cholesterol, and blood sugar into healthy
ranges. While rewards were given for getting screenings, the
company’s program emphasized results, Sandy said.  Improved Results  In the first two years of the program, 82 percent of the
employees of the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based insurer covered by
the incentive program earned rewards toward reducing their
premiums, with 36 percent achieving the highest level.  “When we first rolled this out you could wonder if people
thought it would be challenging or difficult,” Sandy said.
“They were things people wanted to do but didn’t have the
activation to actually do them.”  Conditions such as obesity and diabetes account for three-quarters of U.S. health spending. UnitedHealth, which employs
133,000 workers, said the program identified 7,200 people who
were at high risk for diseases, including diabetes, yet hadn’t
been diagnosed.  Skeptics of incentive-based wellness programs worry that
many of the cost reductions merely shift expenses to the
premiums for unhealthy enrollees. While the employer’s bottom
line improves, the employee’s burden may increase, said  JoAnn
Volk  of the Georgetown University Health Policy Institute.  “Behavior modification is a tough thing and not all these
things employers target are in these people’s control,” Volk
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  