-- Turkish Army Chief Jailed for Terrorism in Coup-Plot Trial
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   O n u r   A n t
-- 2013-08-05T15:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/turkey-court-jails-ex-generals-for-plotting-coup-against-erdogan.html
A Turkish court labeled the country’s
former army chief a terrorist who plotted to oust Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government, and sentenced him to life in
prison alongside dozens of generals, journalists and academics.  Ilker Basbug, who led the army’s fight against Kurdish
militants in coordination with Erdogan until his retirement in
2010, walked out of the courtroom near Istanbul in reaction to
today’s verdict, the state-run Anatolia news agency said. About
275 people were charged in the case and most were convicted,
though full details of the verdict haven’t been disclosed.  The conviction of Basbug and several other top generals,
who also received life in prison, marked the biggest crackdown
on Turkey’s secular military since it established the republic
in 1923, and the ascendance of Erdogan’s Islamist-rooted
government, which has eroded the army’s powers during its decade
in office. The verdict came at the end of a six-year probe and
less than a year after 330 officers were jailed on charges
related to a separate coup plot.  The defendants in the Ergenekon case, named after the
alleged terrorist group that they were linked to, included
journalists, lawyers, trade unionists, politicians and mobsters.
Three lawmakers from the main opposition secular  Republican
People’s Party , including journalist-turned-politician Mustafa
Balbay and surgeon Mehmet Haberal, were sentenced to between 12
and 35 years in prison  ‘Consolidated Power’  “The Ergenekon case confirms that civilian authority has
effectively consolidated power and influence over the military
establishment in Turkey,” Fadi Hakura, a Turkey analyst at the
Chatham House think-tank in  London , said by phone after the
verdict.  The verdict may not have much impact on financial markets
because “Turkey’s business environment depends now much more on
the style of governance by Prime Minister Erdogan rather than
any verdict relating to military coups,” Hakura said.  The lira weakened 0.4 percent against the dollar at 5:30
p.m. in Istanbul. Yields on two-year benchmark notes dropped 7
basis points to 8.77 percent, and the benchmark  stock index 
closed up 0.2 percent from yesterday, though it pared gains
after the verdicts were announced.  Defendants in the Ergenekon case and the earlier
Sledgehammer trial denied the charges, and many of them claimed
the evidence against them were forged. Erdogan’s party has
denied allegations of political interference in the coup plot
cases, and says the trials are part of the democratization of a
country where the generals have pushed four elected governments
from power since 1960.  Judicial Independence  Basbug said on his website that the public will have the
“final say” about the verdicts. “If society questions the
independence of judges and doubts the legality of their
decisions, then the rule of law can’t be said to exist,” NTV
television reported him as saying.  Outside the court, police used tear gas against supporters
of the defendants, including Dogu Perincek, head of the left-wing  Turkey  Workers’ Party, who also received life in prison.
Paramilitary police blocked roads leading to the court, and
officials prevented families of defendants from attending the
hearing, citing a terror threat to justify the tight security.  ‘Let’s See’  “The existence of an organization called Ergenekon, and
the fact that it planned a coup to overthrow the legitimate
government, has been documented,” Ertan Aydin, an adviser to
Erdogan, said on Twitter after the verdict. “Now let’s see who
defends it.”  The army’s waning power has been welcomed by international
organizations including the European Union. Questions have been
raised, though, by the EU and rights groups about the fairness
of the trials and the range of people implicated in a case which
has polarized Turkey.  The United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention
said last month that the detentions in the Sledgehammer case
violated international law. It cited lengthy pre-trial
detentions, lack of presumption of innocence, failure to present
exculpatory evidence to the defense or to allow it to call
witnesses, and the court’s refusal to appoint experts to assess
the validity of evidence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Onur Ant in Ankara at 
 oant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  