-- US Airways-AMR Wins EU Nod to Create World’s Largest Airline
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   G a s p a r d   S e b a g
-- 2013-08-05T16:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/us-airways-american-deal-wins-conditional-eu-antitrust-approval.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  and  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  won European Union approval for their merger
creating the world’s largest carrier after they allayed concerns
they would monopolize the London-Philadelphia route.  The duo agreed to give up the right to a daily round trip
between London’s Heathrow, the EU’s busiest hub, and the U.S.
city, the European Commission said in an e-mailed  statement .  “In light of these comprehensive commitments, the
commission concluded that the transaction would not raise
competition concerns,” according to the statement. US Airways
and American didn’t immediately comment.  The all-stock tie-up will have the heft to compete with
United Continental Holdings Inc. and Delta Air Lines Inc., which
also were created in a wave of consolidation that began in 2005
and swept up five of the 10 biggest U.S. carriers. American and
 US Airways  expect to complete their merger this quarter, in
conjunction with AMR’s exit from  bankruptcy protection .  The two carriers agreed to merge in February, and will keep
American’s name and headquarters, while US Airways Chief
Executive Officer Doug Parker will run the company.  The initial proposed deal would have created a monopoly
through the joint venture between American, US Airways, British
Airways and Iberia on the London-Philadelphia route, the
commission said.  The combination still must be approved by the court
overseeing AMR’s bankruptcy and U.S. antitrust regulators.  US Airways shareholders and creditors in AMR’s bankruptcy
earlier endorsed the merger.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Gaspard Sebag in Brussels at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  