-- Vegas Sportsbook Pulls A&M Games Amid NCAA’s Manziel Probe
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-05T16:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/vegas-sportsbook-pulls-a-m-games-amid-manziel-eligibility-probe.html
The Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book
stopped taking bets on Texas A&M University football games after
ESPN reported the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  is
investigating potential rules violations by Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback Johnny Manziel.  The LVH Super Book took down the five Texas A&M games it
had offered point spreads on, including the Aggies’ Sept. 14
home date against two-time defending national champion  Alabama .
Oddsmakers also aren’t currently taking bets on Texas A&M’s win
total, which had been listed at 9 1/2 at the Super Book.  Texas A&M had been the most popular college football team
with bettors at the casino’s future book, according to LVH Super
Book assistant manager  Jeff Sherman .  RJ Bell, founder of the handicapping information website
Pregame.com, said other Las Vegas sports books were doing the
same, with some leaving futures bets open at a very low payout.
He called it a “very common” practice for books to take
precautions against a dramatic swing in odds.  “Vegas does a good job of defining what a certain factor
means to a team’s chances,” Bell said in an e-mail. “But when
there’s uncertainty about the factor itself, Vegas prefers to
pull odds off the board until the factor is known.”  NCAA Rules  The NCAA is trying to determine whether Manziel was paid at
least $10,000 for signing photographs and sports memorabilia
while attending college football’s national championship game in
Miami in January, ESPN reported yesterday, citing two
unidentified people who witnessed the signing but not the
exchange of money. Many of those items were later sold online by
a memorabilia dealer, ESPN said.  Manziel, 20, could be ruled ineligible to play college
football if the investigation determines he violated NCAA rules
by accepting money for promoting or advertising the sale of a
product or service.  Texas A&M  athletic department spokesman
Jason Cook told ESPN the school wouldn’t comment on the report.  Aggies coach Kevin Sumlin said today that he found out
about the ESPN report yesterday and wouldn’t change his approach
to the season.  “Our university is doing its due diligence to find out the
facts,” Sumlin said in a televised news conference. “We’re
going to practice and go ahead as normal and adjust as the facts
are related to me.”  NCAA spokeswoman Emily Potter declined in an e-mail to
comment on the ESPN report.  First Freshman  Manziel last year became the first freshman winner in the
78-year history of the Heisman Trophy, college football’s top
individual award. He led Texas A&M to a 10-2 record in its debut
season in the  Southeastern Conference , passing for 3,419 yards
and 24 touchdowns while rushing for 1,181 yards and 19 scores.  Junior Matt Joeckel is the only other quarterback on the
roster who’s thrown a pass for the Aggies, connecting on five of
11 attempts last season.  Texas A&M opens its regular season schedule on Aug. 31
against  Rice University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  