-- Veolia Profit Almost Wiped Out on Waste-Handling Impairments
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-08-05T16:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/veolia-profit-almost-wiped-out-on-impairment-charges-in-germany.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) ,  Europe ’s
biggest water company, said profit was almost wiped out in the
first half because of impairments on waste services in Germany.  Net income slumped to 3.6 million euros ($4.8 million) from
162 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
today in a statement. Adjusted operating income rose 28 percent
to 539 million euros.  “A strong deterioration in the German market” led to the
depreciation, Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Francois Riolacci
said on a conference call. Waste volumes fell most in Germany,
while competition for municipal service contracts rose, he said.  Veolia, which owns German trash-handler Sulo Group, has
suffered a decline in prices for recycled materials such as
paper and metals, hurting its waste-management division. Since
former Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio ’s expansion spree
around the world, current CEO Antoine Frerot has narrowed the
company’s global reach to reduce debt and improve profitability.  Waste volumes shrank 3.5 percent in the first quarter and
increased in the second, resulting in a 1.1 percent decline for
the first half, the utility said in a presentation.  “We had a difficult first quarter but the situation
stabilized in the second,” Riolacci said. “The economy in
Europe isn’t expected to pick up; it won’t decline either.”  Stock Performance  Water and waste utilities in Europe have seen their market
values drop as factories halt to survive the slowdown, curbing
demand for industrial garbage collection. Veolia has dropped 84
percent in Paris trading since its 2007 high. The  stock  rose 3.4
percent to close at 10.62 euros today.  “The waste division showed a significant sequential
improvement,” Julien Desmaretz, analyst at Bryan, Garnier & Co
who has a buy rating on the shares, wrote in a note. “Cost-cutting is filtering through.”  Net income was “impacted by goodwill impairments in the
Environmental Services division in  Germany ,” the company said
in the statement. Veolia maintained full-year earnings targets.  The company has a goal to sell 6 billion euros of assets in
2012 and 2013, and plans a dividend of 70 euro cents a share for
each year. It intends to lower costs by 170 million euros this
year as part of a plan to save 750 million euros by 2015.  “Cost-cutting is moving ahead as we forecast,” Frerot
said on the call. Cost reductions were 74 million euros in the
first half.  The utility has started talks to sell its stake in
Germany’s Berlinwasser to the Berlin state and may agree on a
deal “within months,” Frerot said. The utility also plans to
close an agreement for asset sales in  Morocco .  Borrowings Decline  Net financial  debt  was 10 billion euros at the end of June
compared with a restated 10.8 billion euros at the end of
December. Veolia has said it expects net borrowing of 8 billion
euros to 9 billion euros by the end of this year.  Frerot is increasing Veolia’s reliance on industrial
contracts and focusing on “high-growth” economies such as
 China  to counter weakening demand in Europe. Since the start of
the year he has unveiled plans to expand in nuclear dismantling,
hazardous-waste cleanup and shale-drilling water treatment.  Proglio, who now heads Electricite de France SA, took the
water utility into 77 countries. The company intends to scale
back to about 40 by year-end from 48 at the close of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  