-- Virgin Australia Sees A$110 Million Loss on Ticket System
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-08-05T09:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/virgin-australia-sees-a-110-million-loss-on-ticket-system.html
Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  cut
its full-year earnings forecast for the second time since May
and predicted a loss of as much as A$110 million ($98 million)
on costs from a new ticket-booking system.  Costs including moving to the Sabre ticketing system will
total A$100 million, including A$36 million already announced at
first-half results in February, the Brisbane-based company said
in a statement today. Shares of  Australia ’s second-largest
carrier fell the most in six weeks.  The carrier has been adding flights and keeping ticket
prices low as it attempts to take on  Qantas (QAN)  Airways Ltd.’s 65
percent share of Australia’s domestic market through takeovers
of smaller airlines. Virgin was projected to post net income of
A$21 million in the year ended June, according to the average of
eight analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg before today’s
announcement.  “Aviation’s a tough game,”  Chief Executive Officer John Borghetti said on a conference call. The market was “soft”
from April through June, he said. “Leisure, in particular,
needed a lot of stimulating to get people to put their hands in
their pocket” because of the weak economic conditions.  Virgin fell 4.4 percent, the most since June 24, to 43.5
Australian cents at the close in Sydney trading. The stock has
advanced 3.6 percent this year, lagging behind the 9.9 percent
climb of the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index  Net Loss  Virgin’s net loss will be in the range of A$95 million to
A$110 million, while the loss before tax and one-time items will
be A$30 million to A$50 million, the company said.  Backed by major shareholders  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , Air
New Zealand Ltd., and Etihad Airways PJSC, the airline has
bought rural carrier Skywest and a 60 percent stake in  Tiger
Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR) ’s loss-making  local unit  to compete with
Qantas’s presence in the regional and budget markets.  Yield, a measure of ticket prices, increased in June
compared to a year earlier, and the proportion of seats filled
rose to 74 percent from 69 percent the previous month, the
carrier said. Local capacity growth in the six months through
December will be in the range of 3 percent to 4 percent.  Carbon pricing probably also cost as much as A$50 million,
which the airline wasn’t able to recover in higher ticket prices
because of competition and weak demand, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  