-- WaveRunner Targeted as Florida Leads U.S. in Boat Thefts
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2013-08-05T15:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/waverunner-targeted-as-florida-leads-u-s-in-boat-thefts.html
Yamaha Motor Co. (7272) ’s WaveRunner was the
most sought-after watercraft among U.S. thieves in 2012 as
 Florida  had the highest number of stolen boats, an insurance-industry group said.  A total of 538 WaveRunners were stolen last year, the
National Insurance Crime Bureau said today in a report. Personal
watercraft were the No. 1 boat stolen at 1,373 thefts, followed
by runabouts at 937, utility boats at 360, cruisers at 251 and
sailboats at 42.  “It’s a lot easier to rip jet skis off and hide them
someplace,” Frank Scafidi, a spokesman for the Des Plaines,
Illinois-based NICB, said in a telephone interview before the
release. “If you have a large sailboat, there are only so many
places you can put that.”  Florida reported 1,408 thefts in the period, about 24
percent of the U.S. total of 5,870, the NICB said, citing data
from the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation.  California  was No. 2
with about 10 percent, followed by Texas with about 7 percent.  The top four cities based on the total number of thefts
were in Florida: Miami was first, followed by Tampa, Hialeah and
 Fort Lauderdale . Marathon, Florida, had the highest theft rate,
with about 64 incidents per 10,000 people, followed by Martinez,
California, with about 11.  “We’re a boating community,” said  Becky Herrin , a
spokeswoman at the Sheriff’s Office of Monroe County, which
includes Marathon. “The sheer number of boats that are in our
county would most likely be a big reason for us ranking highly.
Boats are often out in the open and relatively easy to steal if
people don’t take appropriate steps.”  Selling Motors  Boats are sometimes stolen for the motor, which can be
worth more than the craft itself, Herrin said. Owners leaving
keys or valuable equipment on their boats can encourage thieves,
she said.  The second-most stolen boat was  BRP Inc.’s (DOO)  Sea-Doo personal
watercraft, followed by  Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd.’s (7012)  Jet
Ski, the NICB said.  “Sea-Doo is the sales leader in  North America ,”  Tim
McKercher , an outside spokesman for BRP at Look Marketing, said
in a telephone interview. “Anything that’s popular would be
popular to the wrong people. They’re very modern, very
attractive and they look cool. It’s like a MacBook Pro if you’re
an Apple person.”  Bob Gonsalves , a Yamaha spokesman at ICBM Media Inc.,
declined to comment.  The number of boat thefts last year fell by about 3 percent
from 2011, the study found. Watercraft thefts plummeted 74
percent from 2009 to 2011. More thefts occurred during July than
any other month of 2012, the NICB said. Friday is the day of the
week with the most theft, while the fewest were reported on
Thursdays, according to the statement.  The recovery rate of all boats reported stolen in the
period was about 39 percent, the study found. The watercraft
with the highest recovery rate among the top five most-stolen
boats was the Sea-Doo at about 42 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in  San Francisco  at 
 kchaykowski2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  