-- Will Republicans Blow It Again in 2014?
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-08-05T18:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/will-republicans-blow-it-again-in-2014-.html
In the past few weeks, the U.S.
Senate races of 2014 have started to take shape.  Elizabeth Cheney, daughter of the former vice president,
announced that she would take on Senator  Mike Enzi  of Wyoming in
a Republican primary. Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell 
of  Kentucky  got a challenger, too, in businessman Matt Bevin.
And Representative Tom Cotton, an Arkansas Republican,  has
decided to run  against incumbent Democratic Senator  Mark Pryor .  What’s going to get the most attention, appropriately, is
whether Republicans can retake the Senate. (More on that in a
bit.) But there are other questions at stake in the election,
and we’ll find out some answers as the races develop.  First, is President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law going to
be a hit or a flop? And will Republicans finally offer an
alternative? Liberals think that as the law is put in place,
people will appreciate their new benefits and support for it
will rise. Conservatives think the start of the Affordable Care
Act will be something between a disappointment and a disaster.
If they’re right, the best bet for Democrats will be to change
the subject to the Republicans’ lack of a plan.  If red-state Democrats such as Pryor and  Mary Landrieu  of
Louisiana start running away from the law -- declaring their
support for delaying some of its provisions, for example --
we’ll know conservatives are winning the argument.  Second, is there going to be a resurgence of hawks in the
 Republican Party ? Senator  Rand Paul  of Kentucky has pulled the
party in his direction; it’s more skeptical of foreign
interventions and worried about civil liberties than it was
during  George W. Bush ’s presidency. Cotton and Cheney are as
youthful and energetic as Paul but on the other side of these
debates -- and they could start pulling the party back toward
its Bush-era views.  Worthless Sellouts  Third, how do conservatives really feel about Republican
leaders? A vocal contingent of them considers McConnell, House
Speaker  John Boehner  and the rest worthless sellouts who are at
odds with grass-roots sentiment. This group is backing Bevin.
The Kentucky primary will give us a chance to see how many
troops each side of this bitter intraparty feud really commands.  Fourth, have Republicans learned from the races they threw
away in 2010 and 2012? They could have won several Senate seats
had they nominated merely mediocre candidates rather than
disastrous ones. Representative Paul Broun, who is running for
the Senate in Georgia, has  a habit of mentioning Obama  in close
proximity to words like “Hitler” and “Soviet,” and he  says 
that the Big Bang theory, embryology and evolution are “lies
straight from the pit of hell.” If Republicans pick him, they
will show that they’ve learned nothing -- and that they no
longer have any truly safe Senate seats.  Fifth, will there be a “wave” in which most of the
competitive races break to one party or the other? Republicans
are placing their hopes in the  dubious theory  that the public
gets a “six-year itch” during a two-term presidency. It may
also be that Republicans now have a strong advantage in midterm
elections, in which a lot fewer Americans vote than presidential
elections. If the Democrats can bring their edge in turning out
voters from 2012 to the midterms, on the other hand, we could
see a wave for them.  Sixth -- the big one -- will control of the Senate flip to
the Republicans? The map favors them: Twenty-one Democratic
seats will be up for election in 2014, compared with 14
Republican ones, and Republicans need a net gain of only six to
get a majority. But the map favored Republicans in 2006 and
2012, too, and they managed to lose ground both times.  Some Opportunities  Republicans are well positioned to win seats from Democrats
who are retiring in  West Virginia ,  South Dakota  and Montana. But
they aren’t running heavyweight candidates in Iowa or Michigan,
where Democratic retirements have also created opportunities.
It’s true that Republicans haven’t won a Senate seat in Michigan
since 1994, but they did very well there in the last midterm
elections -- picking up the governorship and both houses of the
state legislature.  Republicans also have no strong candidate yet in Minnesota,
where Senator  Al Franken  is nearing the end of a first term  he
barely won  in the 2008 Democratic landslide. Alaska Democrat
 Mark Begich , another bare winner in 2008, doesn’t have a
challenger worth sweating over yet, either.  Based on the way the races look now, then, a Republican
takeover of the Senate is unlikely. Too much would have to go
just right for it to happen. But that assessment is subject to
revision -- especially if Obamacare stays unpopular and the
Republicans get their act together.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at the National Review.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 