-- WTI Crude Advances Amid Signs China Slowdown Stabilizing
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-08-05T12:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/wti-drops-a-second-day-on-weaker-than-forecast-u-s-economy-data.html
Brent crude  declined for a second day
as  Libya  reopened a terminal closed by protests, while Iranian
President Hassan Rohani pledged in his inaugural speech to shun
extremism and take a moderate approach.  Futures dropped as much as 1.1 percent. Libya’s Marsa el
Hrega port reopened and the first crude cargo was exported Aug.
1, according to Naji Mokhtar, the head of the parliamentary
energy committee. In  Iran , Rohani took his oath of office
yesterday, saying the U.S. and the European Union should end
sanctions aimed at stopping the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear
enrichment program, which have curbed its oil exports.  “Some rapprochement between Iran and the U.S.” could
weigh on prices, said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at
Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London. “Brent dropped below $106 last
week and could head there again soon.”  Brent for September settlement lost as much as $1.22 to
$107.73 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange
and traded at $107.80 as of 1:02 p.m. London time. The European
benchmark was at a premium of $1.91 a barrel to WTI. The spread
was at $2.01 on Aug. 2, widening for the first time in three
days.  WTI for September delivery was at $105.93 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, down
$1.01. It earlier gained as much as 0.7 percent. The volume of
all futures traded was 13 percent below the 100-day average.  China Confidence  Oil advanced earlier after  China ’s non-manufacturing
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index showed the first acceleration since
March, according to government data on Aug. 3. The index rose to
54.1 in July from 53.9. The advance follows an unexpected
increase in a factory index last week and may bolster confidence
that Premier  Li Keqiang ’s policies are helping to prevent a
deeper slowdown.  “China has been engaged on a deliberate slow-down policy,
seeking to engineer a soft landing,” said Guy Wolf, global head
of market analytics at Marex Spectron Group in London. “What is
helping is that the U.S. is growing and Europe is bouncing off
the bottom.”  Libyan Exports  All but one of Libya’s terminals were shut in July because
of a labor disputes. A member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, Libya has lost an estimated 4.5 million
barrels of crude and 190,000 barrels of condensate shipments,
analysts at Goldman said in an e-mailed report on Aug. 2.  The Es Sider, Ras Lanuf, Marsa Brega and Zueitina terminals
remain closed, Mokhtar, the head of the parliamentary energy
committee, said on Aug. 3.  Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest crude reserves, is
currently pumping 700,000 barrels a day, then rising to 800,000
barrels next month, Oil Minister Abdulbari Al-Arusi said today
at a press conference in Tripoli. The nation has output capacity
of about 1.6 million barrels, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Iran’s government will take “fundamental steps to elevate
Iran’s position based on national interest and the lifting of
the oppressive sanctions,” Rohani said in his speech. The U.S.
said it will be “a willing partner” if Iran chooses to work
toward a peaceful solution to the nuclear issue.  Hedge funds  reduced net-long positions on WTI by 15,275
futures and options combined, or 4.6 percent, to 318,819 in the
seven days ended July 30, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s weekly report on Aug. 2. That was the first
decline in five weeks.  Money managers reduced  bullish bets  on Brent for the first
time in five weeks, data from ICE Futures Europe show.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 181,335 lots in
the week ended July 30, the London-based exchange said today in
its weekly Commitments of Traders report. That amounts to a
reduction of 10,098 lots, or 5.3 percent, from the five-month
high reached last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  