-- WTI Crude Falls for Second Day on Libyan Output Plans
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-08-05T19:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/wti-crude-falls-for-second-day-after-libya-reopens-port.html
West Texas Intermediate crude dropped
for a second day on Libyan plans for production to increase next
month, while Iranian President Hassan Rohani pledged in his
inaugural speech to shun extremism and take a moderate approach.  Futures fell 0.4 percent as Libyan Oil Minister Abdulbari Al-Arusi said today in Tripoli that the country will probably
pump 800,000 barrels a day next month, up from 700,000. Another
official said the Marsa el Hrega crude-export terminal has
reopened. WTI rose 2.1 percent last week as Libyan exports were
cut. Rohani said the U.S. and the European Union should end
sanctions that have curbed  Iran ’s oil exports.  “The Libyan oil minister’s statements about the rise in
oil production promptly sent the market about $1 lower,” said
 John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York hedge
fund that focuses on energy. “This helped alleviate concerns
about Libyan production that underpinned last week’s rally.”  WTI crude for September delivery declined 38 cents to
settle at $106.56 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Prices dropped as much as $1.24 in intraday trading. The volume
of all futures traded was 33 percent below the 100-day average
at 3:30 p.m.  Brent oil for September settlement decreased 25 cents to
end the session at $108.70 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark traded at a
$2.14 premium to WTI, down from $2.01 on Aug. 2.  Libyan Production  Libyan  crude output  tumbled 330,000 barrels to 800,000
barrels a day in July, a Bloomberg survey showed. It was the
fourth straight decline and sent production to the lowest level
since December 2011. Two years after the 2011 war that swept the
late  Muammar Qaddafi  from power, efforts to revive the oil
industry are being stymied by feuding militias and protests.  The North African country reopened an oil port closed by
protests last week. All but one of  Libya ’s oil-export harbors
was shut last week because of a labor dispute. The Marsa el
Hrega and Zawiya ports are operating while Es Sider, Ras Lanuf,
Marsa Brega and Zueitina remain closed, Naji Mokhtar, head of
the parliamentary energy committee, said Aug. 3 in a telephone
interview from Tripoli.  “Some Libyan barrels are back on board and it looks like
there is more to come,” said Bob Yawger, director of the
futures division at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York. “It
looks like we’ll need a geopolitical event or positive economic
indicator to make the market move higher.”  Libya, a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, has lost an estimated 4.5 million barrels of crude
and 190,000 barrels of condensate shipments, Goldman Sachs
analysts including  Jeffrey Currie  said in a research note dated
Aug. 2.  ‘Fundamental Steps’  Iran’s government will take “fundamental steps to elevate
Iran’s position based on national interest and the lifting of
the oppressive sanctions,” Rohani said in his speech. The U.S.
said it will be “a willing partner” if Iran chooses to work
toward a peaceful solution to the nuclear issue.  “Some rapprochement between Iran and the U.S.” could
weigh on prices, said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at
Jefferies Bache Ltd. in  London . “Brent dropped below $106 last
week and could head there again soon.”  Commodities trimmed losses after the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s U.S. non-manufacturing  index  increased to 56 July
from 52.2 the prior month, a report from the Tempe, Arizona-based group showed today. The  median  forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of economists called for a gain to 53.1.  Economic Reports  “The market rebounded after the better-than-expected ISM
number,” Kilduff said. “Anything that points to a stronger
 U.S. economy  is good for oil demand.”  Oil rose earlier after  China ’s non-manufacturing  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index showed the first gain since March, according to
government data on Aug. 3. The index climbed to 54.1 in July
from 53.9. The increase follows an unexpected advance in a
factory index last week and may boost confidence that Premier  Li Keqiang ’s policies are helping to prevent a deeper slowdown.  “This is the second positive number out of China in less
than a week and seems to have put a bottom in the market,”
Yawger said.  The U.S. and China are the world’s two biggest oil-consuming countries, accounting for about a third of global
demand in 2012, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of
World Energy.  Speculator Wagers  Hedge funds  reduced net-long positions on WTI by 15,275
futures and options combined, or 4.6 percent, to 318,819 in the
seven days ended July 30, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s weekly report on Aug. 2.  Money managers cut  bullish bets  on Brent for the first time
in five weeks, data from ICE Futures Europe show. Speculative
bets that prices will rise, in both futures and options,
outnumbered short positions by 181,335 lots in the week ended
July 30, the exchange said. That is a 5.3 percent reduction from
the five-month high reached a week earlier.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
September was 21.9 percent, up from 20.8 percent Aug. 2, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 371,101
contracts as of 3:32 p.m. It totaled 523,952 contracts Aug. 2,
20 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was 1.86
million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  