-- Yorkshire Water Undervalued by Goldman’s Reported Bid, RBC Says
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-08-05T16:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/yorkshire-water-undervalued-by-goldman-s-reported-bid-rbc-says.html
Yorkshire Water Services Ltd., a
supplier to more than 1.9 million households in northern
 England , is undervalued by a 2 billion-pound ($3 billion) bid
reported in the Sunday Times, RBC Capital Markets LLC said.  The offer from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Allianz SE (ALV)  for
a 30 percent stake would represent only a 13 percent premium on
the utility’s regulatory capital value, John Musk, an analyst at
RBC in London, said today in a note. That “would appear to be
low for an M&A transaction.”  Goldman Sachs plans to make a joint bid with German insurer
Allianz, the London-based Times reported yesterday, without
saying where it got the information. Citigroup Inc. will sell a
17 percent stake and M&G Investments will divest its 13 percent
holding, the newspaper said.  Goldman Sachs and Allianz declined to comment when
 Bloomberg News  called.  “In the absence of any concrete details of the bid
package, the implied premium to Yorkshire Water’s regulated
asset value looks at first glance to be slightly on the thin
side,” said Ian Elkins, editor of Oxford, England-based
publication Global Water Intelligence.  While investors are attracted to the steady revenues that
water assets bring, U.K. utilities are undergoing a regulatory
shift. Industry watchdog Ofwat last month published changes to
the way they can charge customers from 2015 to 2020. These
include separate price controls for wholesale and retail arms to
spur competition in the retail market by allowing non-household
customers to choose suppliers.  Lower Offer  Pressure on the selling shareholders to offload their
stakes before the price review may prompt the prospective buyers
to offer a lower valuation multiple, Elkins said by e-mail. “We
expect this deal to be the last sizeable deal in the regulated
water utilities space in the U.K. until after the results of the
next price review are known,” he said.  Utilities have until Dec. 2 to submit their business plans
and Ofwat will make final decisions on prices in 2015.  Other U.K. water companies have been subject to takeover
talk. The  Daily Mail  in April said state-owned Abu Dhabi
Investment Authority was considering a bid for  Pennon Group Plc (PNN) ,
while the Times said  United Utilities Group Plc (UU/)  hired Goldman
Sachs amid speculation of a possible takeover.  Severn Trent Plc (SVT) 
rejected a takeover offer in June, saying it was too low.  “The few expected changes to the regulatory regime over
the next few years do not seem to detract from the
attractiveness of stable, long-term returns that water
investments offer investors,” Andrew Cox, KPMG LLP’s global
head of energy and natural resources for transactions and
restructuring, said today by e-mail. “There are a limited
number of such investment opportunities available.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in  London  at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  