-- Zimbabwe Stock Exchange Plunges 11% After Mugabe Victory
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 2013-08-05T15:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/zimbabwe-stock-exchange-plunges-11-after-mugabe-victory.html
Zimbabwe ’s main stock index plunged
11 percent, its biggest one-day decline since 2009, after
President  Robert Mugabe  won a presidential election to extend
his 33 years in power and his main rival refused to accept the
result.  The benchmark Zimbabwe Stock Exchange Industrial Index fell
to 205.6 points from 231.21 by the close of trade in Harare, the
capital, paring its rise this year to 35 percent.  Mugabe, 89, won 61 percent of the presidential vote in
results released by the Zimbabwe  Electoral Commission  on Aug. 3
while his Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front won a
two thirds majority in parliament. Mugabe’s party, accused by
the rival Movement for Democratic Change of rigging the
election, is pushing policies including a law that compels
foreign-owned companies to cede 51 percent of their assets to
black Zimbabweans or the government.  “It’s the post election panic,” Carla Simleit, an analyst
at Harare-based IH Securities said in an interview. “It’s
reflective of the uncertainty thats around the elections.”  Delta Corp. the biggest Zimbabwean company by market value,
fell 20 percent to $1.20, giving it a market value of $1.48
billion. The brewing company is 21 percent owned by  SABMiller
Plc (SAB) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Edgars Stores Zimbabwe Ltd., the local unit of a South
African clothing retailer, fell 29 percent while Truworths
Zimbabwe Ltd., another local unit of a South African clothing
seller, fell 17 percent. The local unit of Barclays Plc fell 15
percent. Only two stocks on the 73-member index gained. It was
the biggest decline since Nov. 2, 2009.  No Loans  The mining stocks index fell 2 percent.  Most banks in Zimbabwe have stopped making new loans
because of concern about economic policy under the new
government, two chief executive officers of lenders said,
declining to be identified because they didn’t want to anger the
government.  “People are watching Zimbabwe with their finger on the
trigger,” said Francois Conradie, an analyst at NKC Independent
Economists in Paarl, near  Cape Town , said by phone. “The
business environment is completely unpredictable. The government
that is coming isn’t embarrassed with their indigenization
drive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  