-- Zimbabwe Banks Said to Stop New Loans on Policy Concern
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-08-05T14:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-05/zimbabwe-banks-said-to-stop-new-loans-on-policy-concern.html
Most Zimbabwean banks stopped making
new loans because of concern over the policies President  Robert Mugabe  will pursue after he won an election described by his
main rival as a “sham,” the chief executive officers of two
lenders said.  The banks are concerned that Mugabe, who last month
described the lenders as “shylocks” and said they should stop
“robbing” Zimbabweans, may press ahead with plans to force
foreign-owned lenders to cede 51 percent stakes to black
Zimbabweans or the government, the CEOs said, declining to be
identified because they don’t want to offend the government.  “Individual banks made decisions that they would not lend
during this time, elections,” Sij Biyam, CEO of the  Bankers
Association of Zimbabwe , said in an interview today from the
capital, Harare. The decisions may also be due to funding issues
unrelated to the elections, he said, declining to be more
specific.  The CEO of a third bank. who declined to be identified,
said the institution had stopped lending several weeks ago
because it couldn’t secure funding because of concern about the
election.  Mugabe, 89, won 61 percent of the presidential vote in
results released by the  Zimbabwe   Electoral Commission  on Aug. 3,
while his Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front won a
two-thirds majority in parliament, defeating the Movement for
Democratic Change, which said thousands of its supporters were
excluded from the voters’ roll. A four-year coalition between
Zanu-PF and the MDC had pulled the country out of a decade-long
recession, with Zimbabwe posting four consecutive years of
growth.  Banks operating in Zimbabwe include units of  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Standard Bank Group. CBZ
Holdings Ltd. also operates in the country. The Bankers
Association of Zimbabwe has 23 affiliated institutions.  The  Reserve Bank  of Zimbabwe declined to comment
immediately when called.  The week before the elections also saw unusually high
withdrawals from banks, the CEOs said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  