-- 
Hrvatski Telekom 2010 Net Income Falls 9.5% on Year

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-02-14T15:37:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/t-hrvatski-telekom-to-pay-1-9-billion-kuna-dividend-update1-.html
T-Hrvatski Telekom d.d.,  Croatia ’s
main phone company, reported profit fell more than expected in
2010, as the country’s recession and higher taxes hurt business.  Net income fell 9.5 percent to 1.83 billion kuna ($332
million), below the 1.85 billion-kuna mean estimate by seven
analysts. Revenue fell 1.7 percent to 8.375 billion kuna.
Capital investments fell 25.8 percent from 2009. The shares lost
as much as 5.22 percent as Concorde Securities Rt. downgraded
the stock.  “We continue to be under the effect of recession, as well
as a special 6 percent tax on mobile phone services,” Chief
Executive Officer Ivica Mudrinic said in a press conference
today.  The phone company, which is 51 percent-owned by  Deutsche
Telekom AG , is looking beyond its traditional business to
Internet, Pay television, and mobile-phone services to shore up
its business, as the recession in the former Yugoslav republic
struggles to emerge from recession. The company was downgraded
to “underweight” from “equal-weight” at Concorde Securities
Rt. today by equity analyst Attila Gyurcsik.  Ebitda, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization for the company’s mobile services was
“disappointing,” said Vera Sutedja, an analyst at  Erste Group
Bank AG , probably because of lower national roaming revenue.  Revenue this year will about the same as reported for 2010,
while Ebitda will be “moderately higher,” Mudrinic said.  Mudrinic also said the management board will buy as much as
10 percent of the company’s own shares this year, and the
results were “solid in the current economic situation.”  The company’s application in September to take part in the
planned sale of  Kosovo ’s state-run telecommunications business
was put on hold after the change of government in the former
Yugoslav province, he said.  The shares closed at 300.67 kuna in Zagreb today, down 4
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  