-- 
`Jeopardy' Champion Jennings Senses Target on Back in IBM Match

-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 
2011-02-14T21:06:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/-jeopardy-champion-jennings-senses-target-on-back-in-ibm-match.html
This “Jeopardy!” champion, more
than any other, helped  International Business Machines Corp .
develop a computer capable of playing the television quiz show.  Who is Ken Jennings?  As IBM’s “Watson,” named after company founder Thomas J. Watson, begins a man versus machine battle on Jeopardy tonight,
the computer will square off against the player whose track
record played a central role in shaping it. IBM scientists mined
troves of data from past winners to develop the computer’s
capabilities, and Jennings, as winner of a record 74 games in
2004, generated more statistics than any other.  “I felt like I had a target painted on me,” the 36-year-
old said in a phone interview last week.  Jennings and Brad Rutter, another former champion, face
Watson in a three-day competition that runs through Feb. 16,
with a $1 million first-place prize on the line. The shows will
be broadcast from IBM’s lab in Yorktown Heights, New York, and
air during the regular “Jeopardy” time slot.  IBM built Watson, after creating the computer that defeated
champion Gary Kasparov in chess, to tackle another challenge:
make a machine that could understand natural human language, as
opposed to the keyword searches used in the search engines of  Google Inc . or  Microsoft Corp . IBM wanted the effort to have
real-world applications. “Jeopardy,” with its word plays,
innuendos and penalties for inaccuracy, proved a good test.  As Dave Ferrucci, IBM’s lead scientist on the project, and
his team developed Watson, they used Jennings’s data to create
the “Jennings Arc,” according to  Stephen Baker , who has
written a book about Watson. The measure tracked how often
Jennings was first to hit the buzzer to answer questions and how
often he answered correctly, Baker said.  Jennings’s Precision  “Jennings represented the statistical performance of a
‘Jeopardy’ superstar,” Baker, whose book is  “Final Jeopardy:
Man vs. Machine and the Quest to Know Everything,”  said in an
interview.  Jennings, a computer science major at  Brigham Young
University  and former computer programmer, was skeptical at
first that IBM could make a computer to play “Jeopardy.” That
changed when he saw tapes of Watson “demolishing” championship
level players, he said.  While having Watson compete was one thing for Ferrucci and
his team, playing at Jennings’s level represented the highest
standard for “Jeopardy.” In his stretch of games, Jennings
answered questions correctly about 92 percent of the time and
was first to the buzzer more than half the time, Baker wrote.  Watson  IBM researchers deduced that, to play at his level, Watson
would have to get to the buzzer half the time, answer correctly
nine out of 10 times and win a decent amount of the Daily
Doubles, questions randomly sprinkled among clues that let
contestants bet money on whether they’ll get it right, he wrote.  Jennings first saw the charts about his performance that
IBM was using in Watson’s development in a research paper.  “I sort of jumped up a little in my seat, like somebody
was watching me,” he said.  Watson, who appears on film as a round avatar on a screen,
has a custom-made database created from journals, newspapers and
other resources. Watson receives each question through a typed
entry at the same time queries are read to the other
contestants. The computer then scans the database with
algorithms and calculates its degree of confidence in an answer.
If its confidence crosses a certain threshold, a mechanical
thumb buzzes in and Watson speaks the answer out loud.  Business Applications  The project builds on IBM’s work in artificial
intelligence, including the Deep Blue supercomputer that
defeated world champion Kasparov in a 1997 match. IBM, the
world’s largest computer-services provider, decided to try
another challenge that would pique the public’s interest -- and
this time with commercial applications.  The machine has been generating interest from businesses in
various sectors, especially customer support and health care,
Ferrucci said in an interview last year. The computer runs on
IBM’s Power 7 server system.  “To make good decisions in health care, it involves
looking at databases of information, but also journals,
reference materials, textbooks, blogs, doctors’ notes,” he
said. “There is tremendous potential for the technology.”  The company, based in Armonk, New York, fell 63 cents to
$163.22 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares have gained 11 percent this year.  Sparring Matches  Watson ran into some snags through development, confusing
meanings of “cushion,” and answering, with confidence, that
the eighth wonder of the world was King Kong.  “Natural language is ambiguous,” Ferrucci said in the
interview last year. “Everything you need to understand in that
sentence isn’t necessarily in that sentence.”  After four years of development, Watson was further tweaked
during more than 50 games against former “Jeopardy” champions.  IBM and Jeopardy executives announced last year that Watson
would square off with Jennings and Rutter, who has won more
money than any player on Jeopardy and beat Jennings in a
tournament in 2005.  IBM will donate the $1 million to charity if Watson wins.
Jennings and Rutter plan to give half of the proceeds to charity
if they win.  Jennings pushed himself to prepare for the match.  “I used this online application that let me play every
Final Jeopardy going back to 1984,” he said. “It’s the geek
equivalent of Rocky Balboa training.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 