-- 
‘Swipe’ Fee Cap May Force Fees, Job Cuts, Bankers Say

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-02-14T21:03:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/-swipe-fee-cap-would-force-new-fees-job-cuts-bank-group-says.html
U.S. community banks may eliminate
free products, fire workers and shelve expansion plans if the  Federal Reserve  imposes proposed debit-card “swipe” fee caps,
according to a survey conducted by a trade group.  The caps, required by the Dodd-Frank Act, are “deeply
flawed,” and an exemption for firms with less than $10 billion
in assets won’t shield smaller banks from its negative effects,
 Independent Community Bankers of America  President Camden Fine
said in a statement.  To back up its case, the group released results of a survey
today highlighting steps it says bankers would have to take in
response to the new rule. Of the bankers surveyed, 93 percent
said they would be required to charge customers for services
that are currently free. Another 50 percent said they would
charge customers a fee each time they use a debit card.  The Fed  proposed  capping debit interchange fees charged to
merchants at 12 cents for each transaction, replacing a formula
that averages about 1 percent of the purchase price. The cap
rule must be completed by April 21 and in effect by July 21 to
comply the regulatory-overhaul law. Credit-card interchange
fees, which average about 2 percent, remain untouched.  Unified Opposition  The ICBA, which represents nearly 5,000 community lenders,
joins large banks, electronic-payment networks and credit unions
in seeking changes to the rules proposed by the Fed in December.  “It’s our sincere hope that this is the catalyst that
allows Congress to take the steps necessary to stop this rule,”
Jason Kratovil, the ICBA’s vice president of congressional
relations, said of the survey results.  The Washington-based industry group is among the top
contributors to members of Congress, spending more than $4.5
million in 2010 as lawmakers debated Dodd-Frank financial
legislation, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Some of Wall Street’s top executives have gone directly to
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , urging him to withdraw the central
bank’s proposal to cap swipe fees.  The  Federal Advisory Council , a group of 12 bankers who
consult and advise the Fed, told Bernanke and his fellow
governors that the proposal “misinterprets and misapplies” the
Dodd-Frank provision requiring the rule.  ‘Extremely Damaging’  “If enacted as proposed, the results would be extremely
damaging to consumers, the U.S. payment systems and financial
institutions of all sizes,” the council, which includes  Bank of
New York Mellon Corp . Chief Executive Officer Robert Kelly and  State Street Corp . CEO Joseph “Jay” Hooley, told governors at
a Feb. 4 meeting, according to a summary posted on the Fed’s
website today.  Fee limits proposed by the central bank may reduce annual
revenue for U.S. banks by more than $12 billion.  Visa Inc . and  MasterCard Inc ., which set the fees and pass the money to card-
issuing banks, tumbled more than 10 percent after the proposed
rules were made public on Dec. 16, amid investor concern that
the caps will damage their business model.  “Regardless of the size, from the largest bank to the
smallest corner institution, debit-card customers will pay more,
have less convenience or watch their cards disappear
altogether,” said Trish Wexler, a spokeswoman for the
Electronic Payments Coalition, which represents payment networks
and card issuers.  MasterCard, based in Purchase, New York, rose 0.6 percent
to $254.96 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. San Francisco-based Visa gained 1.1 percent to $75.74.  Bank of America  Some of the largest banks have already begun shelving free
services in anticipation of the interchange rule.    Bank of America Corp ., the biggest debit-card issuer, said
it will begin charging retail customers checking-account fees
unless they maintain minimum balances, make regular deposits,
use credit cards or take advantage of online services.  Even with the exemption for lenders with assets under $10
billion, groups representing smaller banks say members could
lose revenue if networks offer separate fee levels that prompt
merchants to favor debit cards issued by bigger companies.  Senator  Richard Durbin , the Illinois Democrat who crafted
the provision and the exemption for smaller lenders, has
criticized Washington trade groups such as the ICBA and the  Credit Union National Association  for trying to scare members.  Time and Money  “These associations have expended so much time and money
lobbying against reform over the past year that unfortunately I
do not expect them to ever reconsider their position,” Durbin
wrote in a Jan. 18  letter  to the Illinois Bankers Association,
Illinois Credit Union League and the Community Bankers
Association of  Illinois .  Durbin, the second-ranked Democrat in the Senate, has said
he will work to stop any legislative effort to change the
provisions. In a letter to the  American Bankers Association 
dated today, Durbin said he would “vigorously oppose efforts to
block the implementation of this needed reform.”  “Congress has now recognized that interchange reform is
necessary and has passed a reform law that should be given time
to work,” Durbin wrote to the Washington-based trade group.  House lawmakers will get their first update on its effects
this week when the House Financial Services Committee holds a
Feb. 17 subcommittee  hearing  on the issue.  Sarah Bloom Raskin , a
Federal Reserve governor, will testify.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  