-- 
Abbas Asks Salam Fayyad to Form Palestinian Government as Cabinet Resigns

-- B y   T a n y a   H a b j o u q a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-02-14T12:07:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/abbas-asks-salam-fayyad-to-form-palestinian-government-as-cabinet-resigns.html
The  Palestinian Authority  Cabinet
resigned today and President Mahmoud Abbas called on the prime
minister to form a more inclusive government in advance of
elections, spokesman  Ghassan Khatib  said.  Prime Minister Salam Fayyad presented the Cabinet’s
resignation to Abbas today at his office in the  West Bank  city
of Ramallah. The authority announced Feb. 12 that it was
preparing to hold presidential and legislative elections, the
first polling in more than five years, by September.  The moves follow mass protests that led to the overthrow of
the presidents of Egypt and Tunisia and have inspired pro-
democracy demonstrations across the Middle East.  Abbas, popularly known as Abu Mazen, is reshuffling his
government because of a lack of progress on some of the most
pressing issues facing Palestinians, including peace talks with  Israel  and reconciliation with the Islamic Hamas movement, said
Mkhaimar Abusada, a political scientist at al-Azhar University
in the Gaza Strip.  “This move is in part to get out of the stalemate,”
Abusada said in a telephone interview. “Keeping the situation
as it is isn’t good for Abu Mazen, it isn’t good for the
Palestinian Authority and it isn’t good for Palestine.”  Khatib said Abbas “hopes the new Cabinet will be more
inclusive.”  The next Cabinet is likely to include a broader range of
voices, Abusada said.  Hamas Participation  The term of the existing parliament and president ended
more than a year ago. New balloting hasn’t been held because
Hamas has said it won’t participate in elections until Hamas and
the Palestinian Authority reconcile their split.  Hamas seized control of the  Gaza Strip  in 2007, ending a
partnership government with Fatah after winning parliamentary
elections.  The split in the two Palestinian factions, which has left
Abbas in control of the West Bank only, has been cited by Israel
as an obstacle in reaching any peace agreement that would
establish an independent state.  Chief Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat  resigned last week
saying he was taking responsibility for the leak of confidential
documents from his office to al-Jazeera television.  Al-Jazeera last month released memos and e-mails from
meetings that showed that Palestinian negotiators were prepared
to give up claims to parts of east Jerusalem and swap some
Jewish settlements in the West Bank for territory within Israel
in 2008 talks. The television station didn’t say how it obtained
the documents. Erakat has said the reports were “taken out of
context.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Habjouqa in  Ramallah  through the Tel Aviv newsroom at  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  