-- 
Labor Budget Cut 5%, Safety Spending Up in 2012 Plan

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-02-14T17:55:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/labor-budget-cut-5-safety-spending-to-rise-in-obama-2012-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  proposed
cutting the Labor Department’s budget 5.4 percent to $12.8
billion, cutting some job creation programs deemed redundant and
adding support for mine safety and worker protection efforts.  Labor Department discretionary spending for the fiscal year
beginning Oct. 1 would drop from $13.6 billion in 2010, the last
time agencies had an enacted budget, according to Obama’s budget
outline released today.  The savings reflect a shift in funding away from job-
training programs that are “underutilized,” the administration
said in its budget proposal.  The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , the nation’s largest business
group and frequent critic of department initiatives from the
Obama administration, said the proposed reduction was
inadequate.  “Given the significant increases since 2008, five percent
should just be the starting point,” said Glenn Spencer,
executive director of the Chamber’s Workforce Freedom
Initiative.  A program called Job Corps, which helps train low-income
young people, gets a proposed 25 percent cut in its construction
budget.  “Job Corps provides valuable education and career training
for many disadvantaged young people, but as all agencies are
working to identify savings, the budget reduces the program’s
construction budget by 25 percent,” according to the budget.  Underfunded Programs  The budget proposes a boost in spending on “worker
protection and mine safety programs that were underfunded in the
previous administration.” Funding for the  Mine Safety and
Health Administration  is increased to $384 million from $365
million, and funding for the  Occupational Safety and Health
Administration  is increased to $583 million from $559 million.
The agencies, known as MSHA and OSHA, are charged with
penalizing companies that violate worker safety laws.  Increased MSHA and OSHA funding may lead to “much needed
safety and health regulations,” said Peg Seminario, director of
worker safety issues at the AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest union
group. The budget shows “protecting the safety and health of
Americans workers is a priority for the administration.”  The budget proposes raising premiums charged to employers
by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., which backstops private
pension plans, by $16 billion for 10 years, and levy higher
premiums on the riskiest companies. The proposal, which would
have to be approved by Congress, wouldn’t take effect for at
least two years.  The budget also boosts funding for programs that ensure
“integrity” in the unemployment insurance program and avoid
improper payments to unemployed workers. The budget proposal
said that employers have faced higher taxes because states have
had to finance high levels of improper payments.  The proposal also calls for helping states launch paid
leave programs for workers who need to take time off to care for
a child or other relatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in  Washington  at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  