-- 
Abu Dhabi Says Occidental’s Shah Gas Terms Differ From Conoco’s

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-02-14T15:22:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/abu-dhabi-says-occidental-s-shah-gas-terms-differ-from-conoco-s.html
  Occidental Petroleum Corp .’s
contract terms to develop the $10 billion Shah natural-gas field
in partnership with  Abu Dhabi  are different than those held by a
predecessor, an executive with the state oil company said.  State-run Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. awarded Occidental a
contract to help develop the deposit last month. The Los
Angeles-based company replaced U.S. crude producer
ConocoPhillips, which withdrew from the project in April.  “There are some differences,” Saif Ahmed Al Ghafli, chief
executive officer of the joint venture that will develop the
field, said in the United Arab Emirates capital of the
contracts, declining to give details.  Abu Dhabi holds the world’s seventh-largest reserves of oil
and gas, according to U.S.  Energy Information Administration 
data. The emirate, the largest in the U.A.E., wants to develop
more of its gas supplies to meet domestic demand for the fuel
used to generate electricity.  An Abu Dhabi-based Occidental official declined to comment,
asking not to be identified in line with company policy.  ConocoPhillips pulled out of the partnership last year,
saying it wanted to concentrate on oil production and amid
reports that compensation agreed for gas and associated products
to be produced wasn’t enough to make the project profitable.  Producing fuel from Shah may cost more than $5 a million
British thermal units, more than five times the price Persian
Gulf countries have traditionally paid for gas, Samuel Ciszuk, a
senior Middle East energy analyst at IHS Global Insight, said
when the award was announced.  Already Started Work  Adnoc owns 60 percent of Abu Dhabi Gas Development, the
Shah field’s operating company. Occidental beat out  Exxon Mobil
Corp . and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  in the running to hold the
remaining stake.  Occidental engineers have already started work on the
project, Al Ghafli said. Adnoc awarded construction contracts
for Shah after ConocoPhillips pulled out. Not having a partner
for several months won’t delay the project, Al Ghafli said.  Shah, about 180 kilometers (112 miles) from the city of Abu
Dhabi, poses a technical challenge because it contains gas that
is mostly sour, or high in hazardous hydrogen sulfide. The
hydrogen sulfide must be stripped from the gas before the fuel
can be used. The sulfur must then be converted into a solid and
transported 250 kilometers to be loaded on ships and exported.  Shah, scheduled for completion by the third quarter of
2014, will process 1 billion cubic feet a day of sour gas into
about 500 million cubic feet of fuel daily. It may also process
4,400 tons of natural-gas liquids a day, 35,000 barrels a day of
condensates and 9,200 metric tons a day of sulfur.  Adnoc, as the emirate’s state-run crude producer is known,
announced it had awarded the contract for the project to
Occidental on Jan. 20. Occidental said in a separate statement
the same day that its stake would last for 30 years and
estimated capital spending at about $10 billion, with its share
proportional to its ownership.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Abu Dhabi at  adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 