-- 
Laffer Curve Pays Billions If Obama Just Asks: Kevin Hassett

-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 
2011-02-14T00:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/laffer-curve-pays-billions-if-obama-just-asks-commentary-by-kevin-hassett.html
The U.S. is about to have the
highest corporate  tax rate  in the developed world because our
competitors have noticed that revenue goes up as rates go down.
Multinational corporations today nimbly move their profits to
the friendliest environment, rewarding  tax havens  like never
before.  It looks as if President  Barack Obama  and congressional
Democrats are going to miss out on the single biggest policy
opportunity for the U.S. this year because of their ideological
resistance to the idea that lower rates can increase revenue,
also known as the Laffer curve.  The devil, as so often happens, was in the details of what
Obama said in his State of the Union address: “I’m asking
Democrats and Republicans to simplify the system. Get rid of the
loopholes. Level the playing field. And use the savings to lower
the corporate tax rate for the first time in 25 years -- without
adding to our deficit.”  A careful reading shows that Obama conditioned his support
for  tax reform  on revenue neutrality -- that is, no net loss or
gain in what the federal government collects in taxes. The usual
referee in such matters, Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation,
doesn’t fully incorporate what’s known as  dynamic scoring , or
anticipating higher growth from lower taxes. So legislation that
meets Obama’s prerequisite probably won’t lower corporate taxes
significantly.  Message Received  If there were any doubts about the administration’s
position, they were put to rest last week by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , who said, “We’re not going to ask Americans
to pay higher taxes so we can lower taxes on businesses.”  Obama and Geithner must not understand the fix our country
is in.  Corporate taxes “are the most harmful type of tax for
economic growth,” according to a November 2010  report  by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  In the World Bank-supported “ Doing Business 2011 ” report,
the U.S.’s worst ranking by far was in the category called
“paying taxes” -- 62nd out of 183 economies, tied with  Uganda .
That needs to be fixed, whether or not the budget experts on  Capitol Hill  say the repair costs too much.  The U.S. top corporate tax rate of 35 percent in 2010 was
higher than all other OECD nations except Japan, which has
embarked on a 5 percentage-point cut. The average rate in the
OECD is 23.5 percent. Ireland’s rate is only 10.9 percent;  Turkey ’s is 13.1 percent.  If the high rate in the U.S. raised lots of revenue,
cutting it might be bad news for the federal budget. But that’s
not a problem.  Below Average  The U.S. earns less federal corporate tax revenue, as a
percentage of gross domestic product, than the average OECD
country. Higher rates, lower revenue.  From 2000 through 2009, the U.S. average corporate  tax
revenue  as a percentage of GDP was 2.06 percent, according to
OECD data. The average for the rest of the OECD was almost a
percentage point higher, at 3 percent.  In 2009, the U.S. ratio dropped to 1.64 percent. That year,
the U.K., with a tax rate of 28 percent, raised 2.8 percent of
GDP.  South Korea  raised 3.4 percent of GDP with a rate of 22
percent.  Belgium  raised 2.5 percent of GDP with a rate of 34
percent.  A number of studies have indicated that a Laffer curve
exists for corporate taxes. One  study I did  with Alex Brill,
looking at data for OECD countries from 2000 to 2005, found that
the U.S. could maximize its tax revenue by cutting the top
corporate rate 8.6 percentage points, to 26.4 percent.  Money Rolls In  If the average OECD country set its rate at 26.4 percent,
it would raise 3.8 percent of GDP from corporate tax revenue,
according to my analysis of historical correlations. If the U.S.
managed to increase its corporate revenue as a share of GDP to
3.8 percent, it would yield a startling $2.8 trillion during the
next decade above what the  Congressional Budget Office  now
projects.  Even less-rosy assumptions can’t spoil the fun. Let’s say
the U.S. achieves merely the average improvement of an OECD
country that reduces its corporate tax rate to 26.4 percent from
35 percent. The improvement would still generate an impressive
$748 billion in additional tax revenue over the next 10 years.  All of this might force Obama to reconsider his obeisance
to revenue neutrality, since under these models, tax revenue
doesn’t remain neutral -- it soars. (If he really wants to
deprive his supporters of billions to spend, he could lower the
corporate tax rate all the way to 17.4 percent. By the rules of
the  Laffer curve , that rate generates the same revenue as 35
percent.)  Republicans have asserted for years that just about all tax
cuts pay for themselves. They’ve almost always been wrong about
that. But with regard to corporate taxes, it’s true. Laffer
prevails.  Political reflex might lead Democrats to ignore the
evidence that lowering the corporate tax rate increases revenue.
If so, too bad, because we’ll leave free money on the table.    Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the  American Enterprise Institute , is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  