-- 
AGRI Liquefied Gas Project May Cost 5 Billion Euros

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-02-14T15:09:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/agri-liquefied-gas-project-may-cost-5-billion-euros-update1-.html
The Azerbaijan-Georgia-Romania-
Interconnection liquefied natural gas project will cost 2
billion euros ($2.69 billion) to 5 billion euros, said Natig Aliyev,  Azerbaijan ’s energy minister.  The two LNG terminals planned for the project could supply
as much as 8 billion cubic meters of gas, Aliyev said today
after a meeting in Bucharest with shareholders of the project
known as AGRI.  MVM Rt.,  Hungary ’s electricity producer and
distributor, will enter the project by the end of the month,
AGRI Chairman Corneliu Condrea also said.  The three countries in the project, as well as Hungary,
agreed in September to form the venture to secure LNG supplies
to central European customers from the  Caspian Sea . The accord
bolsters the drive in the European Union to diversify energy
supplies and ease dependence on Russian gas.  “The final cost of the project will depend on the volumes
of gas transported,” Aliyev said. “We need one year to prepare
all the works including the feasibility study and if we combine
the financing scheme, then the construction of the elements
could take from 1 year to 2 years.”  The study for the project may cost 15 million euros,
according to Aliyev.  AGRI’s shareholders are analyzing possible financing
sources, including private banks and international institutions
such as the  European Investment Bank  and the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, Condrea said.  Aliyev said that Azerbaijan plans to increase its gas
output to 60 billion cubic meters from 30 billion cubic meters,
enabling it to supply both AGRI and the planned Nabucco
pipeline. Nabucco, in planning since at least 2004, would supply
gas from the Caspian and Middle East region to  Austria  via  Turkey .  “Azerbaijan supports all southern gas corridors, including
AGRI, and that’s why we are now in a position to provide these
projects with natural gas,” Aliyev said. “We are looking for
new markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  