-- 
All Nippon’s A&F Aviation to Lease 10 Airbus A320s

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-02-14T07:49:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/all-nippon-s-a-f-aviation-to-lease-10-airbus-a320s-update1-.html
All Nippon Airways Co.’s low-cost
affiliate will lease 10 Airbus SAS A320 aircraft to tap
regional demand for leisure travel including in  China , the
world’s fastest-growing major economy.  A&F Aviation Co., which aims to start flights this year,
plans to serve 6 million passengers within five years on
international and domestic routes at about half the cost of
legacy airlines, Chief Executive Officer Shinichi Inoue told
reporters today in Osaka. The aircraft will be leased from GE
Capital Aviation Services, according to an A&F statement.  A&F will take delivery of the single-aisle planes over
two years and may fly to China,  South Korea ,  Taiwan ,  Hong
Kong  and  Philippines  as economic growth and rising wages
boosts travel demand. Skymark Airlines Inc., Japan’s biggest
low-cost carrier, plans to triple its fleet in four years and
to add as many as 15 Airbus A380s and to start offering
international services.  “We want to tap into  Asia ’s growing demand,” Inoue
said. “Our strength as a low-cost carrier, relative to
overseas airlines, is that we can fly domestically as well as
internationally.”  A&F chose Kansai International Airport, which serves
Japan’s second-largest metropolitan area including the cities
of Osaka, Kyoto and Kobe, as a 24-hour hub. The airport, on a
manmade island off Osaka, is about one hour closer by air
than Tokyo is to mainland Asian destinations, Inoue said.  China will be the biggest contributor of new passengers
to global air traffic over the next five years, adding 181
million on domestic routes and 33 million on international
services, according to International Air Transport
Association estimates released today.  China’s forecast growth rate of 11 percent a year on
international routes is more than double the pace for  Europe 
and  North America .  The ANA affiliate chose the name A&F to include an
initial for All Nippon and one for Hong Kong-based investor
Victor Chu’s First Eastern Investment Group, which will own
as much as 33.3 percent of the carrier.  A new name will be chosen next month, Inoue said today.  All Nippon gained 1.3 percent to 305 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of trade in Tokyo today. The shares are up 19 percent
in the past 12 months, compared with a 6.3 percent advance
for the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  