-- 
Amtrak May Lose Money in Obama Transportation Plan

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-02-14T22:19:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/amtrak-would-have-to-compete-for-grants-in-obama-transport-plan.html
Rail users said they are concerned
that  Amtrak , the U.S. passenger railroad, and high-speed rail
projects would lose federal money under President Barack Obama’s
proposal to create a rail account in a new transportation trust
fund.  The proposal for funding a new six-year surface
transportation law would end direct operating subsidies to
Amtrak and for the first time include rail programs in what has
been called the “highway bill.”  Amtrak received $1.57 billion
in capital and debt service grants, and operating subsidies, in
fiscal 2010.  Getting rail funding “on the table where it’s harder to
forget is a good thing, but it will be interesting to see where
the funding comes from,” said Ross Capon, president of the
National Association of Railroad Passengers, based in  Washington . “If the implication here is we’re going to try to
shoehorn a size-26 foot into a size-16 shoe, it’s not going to
work.”  He was referring to the current shortfall in the highway
trust fund, which relies on revenue from the 18.4-cent-a-gallon
federal fuels tax.  The administration proposes devoting $53 billion, including
$8 billion in fiscal 2012, to its high-speed and intercity
passenger rail initiative. Congress appropriated $2.5 billion to
the program for fiscal 2010. Republican House leaders are
proposing to eliminate high-speed funding in the continuing
resolution to fund the government through the remainder of
fiscal 2011, which ends Sept. 30.  Amtrak Funding  Under the proposal, Amtrak’s budget would increase  41
percent to $2.22 billion in fiscal 2012. The request to Congress
today includes funds to buy 40 Acela Express coach cars to add
seating on the high-speed rail line from Washington to  Boston .  The proposal comprises $1.29 billion for capital
investments to improve existing lines, including in the
Northeast Corridor; $616 million to operate more than 300 daily
trains nationwide, and $271 million for debt service.  Amtrak covers 85 percent of its operating costs with ticket
sales and other revenue, leaving about 15 percent for the
federal government to make up.  Northeast Corridor  The high-speed rail account would be divided into $4.05
billion for “system preservation and renewal” in fiscal 2012
and $4 billion for network development. The Northeast Corridor
Improvement program, which provides capital funding for
passenger rail service between Washington and Boston, would have
to compete for money beginning in fiscal 2012.  Rail projects may also get funding from a $30 billion
National Infrastructure Bank the president would create in his
reauthorization proposal.  The fiscal 2012 budget proposes $22.4 billion for the
Federal Transit Administration and calls for spending $119
billion over six years on transit programs.  The administration also establish a grant program for
projects that increase  energy efficiency  and decrease greenhouse
gas emissions. It would continue the New Starts grant program,
the primary source of federal capital investment in transit
infrastructure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  