-- 
Andritz Rises After Announcing Talks for Biggest-Ever Order

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-02-14T11:06:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/andritz-rises-after-announcing-talks-for-biggest-ever-order.html
  Andritz AG , the world’s biggest
maker of machinery for pulp producers, rose in Vienna trading
after the company said it’s in talks to supply a $1.9 billion
pulp mill in Uruguay, in what would be its biggest order ever.  The shares rose as much as 3.7 percent to 65.60 euros, the
biggest increase in three weeks, and were at 65.52 euros, up 3.6
percent, at 12:02 p.m. local time. Andritz is trading at 17
times next year’s estimated per-share earnings, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, compared with 12 times for  Metso
Oyj , its closest competitor in pulp technology.  Andritz, based in Graz, Austria, said in a statement today
that it may supply technology and equipment to a pulp mill built
by the Montes del Plata joint venture of Finland’s  Stora Enso
Oyj  and Celulosa Arauco y Constitucion SA. Order values for
comparable projects have been between 750 million euros ($1
billion) and 800 million euros, Andritz said, which would make
this its biggest order ever. The companies agreed not to
disclose the order value.  “While we were aware of this project in general, we would
have only assumed a value of 375 million euros,” said Sven Weier, an analyst at UBS AG, in an e-mailed note. He added that
he may raise his estimates for Andritz’s 2011 order intake of 5
billion euros by as much as 18 percent.  The Punta Pereira mill, near the Rio de la Plata river and
opposite the Argentine capital of  Buenos Aires , will have annual
capacity of 1.3 million metric tons. It’s scheduled to start
production in the first half of 2013. Stora Enso’s partner in
the joint venture is the pulp unit of Chile’s  Empresas Copec SA .    Brazil  Order  Andritz also confirmed in a separate statement that it won
a 330 million-euro share of an order to supply turbines,
generators and other equipment for the Belo Monte hydropower
plant in Brazil.  A Uruguayan pulp mill built in the town of Fray Bentos
prompted four years of environmental protests by Argentines who
said it violated a treaty governing the Uruguay River, which
divides the two countries. The  International Court of Justice 
last year ruled in favor of  Uruguay  on the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  