-- 
Aperam CEO Would Consider Stainless Steel Mergers

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 
2011-02-17T14:44:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/arcelormittal-s-aperam-would-consider-stainless-steel-mergers.html
(Corrects 10th paragraph of story originally published Feb.
14 to show Mittal family owns 41 percent of Aperam.)  Aperam, the stainless-steel producer
spun off by  ArcelorMittal , would consider mergers in an industry
that’s beset by overcapacity and surging costs.  “We’re open to change,” Chief Executive Officer Bernard Fontana said, when asked whether he would consider a merger.
“There are things we can do by ourselves, and they deserve to
be done, and if an opportunity comes, then we are open.”  The spinoff of Aperam last month followed years of talks
among  Europe ’s steelmakers on merging their stainless operations
that came to nothing. Lakshmi Mittal, CEO of ArcelorMittal, the
world’s biggest steelmaker, said in July such negotiations had
failed, while  ThyssenKrupp AG  in 2009 abandoned its own plans to
tackle overcapacity as it couldn’t achieve an acceptable price.  “There were many talks in the past to build a stronger
player with better utilization in Europe but they were not
successful,” Fontana said in an interview in London on Feb. 11.
The spinoff “may make it easier, in case it may happen, because
people get a better understanding of the operations,” he said.  European stainless steel producers used about 70 percent of
their capacity in 2010, according to Fontana.    Spain ’s  Acerinox SA  was Europe’s largest producer of the
alloy in 2009, according to Nomura Holdings Inc., followed by
Aperam.  Outokumpu Oyj , a Finnish maker of stainless steel, said
this month the industry would benefit from combining assets.  “The spinoff of Aperam refocuses attention on an unloved
sector and helps to ultimately set the stage for consolidation
within the European stainless sector and the creation of a
market-stabilizing pan-European stainless leader,” Jeffrey Largey, a Nomura analyst, wrote in a note on Jan. 25.  Stainless Recovery  Producers are struggling with higher raw-material costs at
the same time as demand and prices for their products fall.
Outokumpu this month said stainless steel base prices slid 6.5
percent last quarter from a year earlier, while ingredient costs
for nickel, ferrochrome and recycled steel all gained.  Stainless steel prices have declined for the past two
quarters and were at 1,190 euros ($1,604) a metric ton on Feb.
11, according to data compiled by  Metal Bulletin .  Aperam, 41 percent owned by the Mittal family, according to
Bloomberg data, sees stainless demand growth of about 6 percent
a year in the medium term, with emerging markets averaging 7 to
8 percent and Europe about 3 to 4 percent, Fontana said.  The potential for demand growth is greater in stainless
than carbon steel, he said, with consumption likely to return to
levels seen before the global economic slump by 2013 or 2014.  The company, which used 65 percent to 70 percent of its
capacity in 2010, was operating at a “much higher rate” in the
first quarter, Fontana said. Aperam said last week it suspended
output at its French Isbergues plant, or about 7 percent of
total capacity, to switch to more efficient sites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  