-- 
Italian Energy Trader Sues EU Commission Over Carbon Thefts

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-02-14T18:46:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/arnauts-law-firm-seeks-payout-from-eu-over-carbon-permit-thefts.html
The Cube Srl , a Milan-based energy
trader with missing carbon allowances, started legal action
seeking penalty payments from the European Commission.  Cube, trying to recover more than 200,000 allowances that
were stolen in November, asked for as much as 100,000 euros
($135,000) a day from the commission, regulator of the European
Union, Laurent Arnauts, head of the law firm representing the
trader, said today by phone.  Arnauts, based in Brussels, asked the commission to ease
recovery of stolen allowances by publishing a list of national
registries holding them and blocking trades. The firm summoned
the commission last month in the Brussels Civil Court, according
to a statement on  Arnauts’ website.  Another hearing is planned
for Feb. 21, he said.  “We are confident that the court will side with the
European Commission,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, a Brussels-based
spokesman for the commission, said today by e-mail. He declined
to elaborate.  The commission has refused to disclose information on the
stolen allowances, which is “untenable,” Arnauts said in a
statement. Other victims of carbon thefts have contacted him,
Arnauts said, declining to name them.  EU carbon for December closed unchanged today at 14.89
euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in  London .  RWE AG, Europe’s biggest emitter, is investigating a
“small quantity” of carbon permits that it received before
learning of thefts in the EU market.  The company has not sold the suspect permits, which were
purchased for compliance in the EU cap-and-trade system, Mats Ahl, head of carbon trading at the Essen, Germany-based utility,
said today in response to questions from Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  