-- 
Marriott Climbs to Three-Year High After Planned Spinoff of Timeshare Unit

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-02-15T21:35:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/marriott-international-to-spin-off-timeshare-business-into-public-company.html
Marriott International Inc., owner
of the JW Marriott and Ritz-Carlton brands, rose in New York
trading after saying it would spin off its timeshare operations.  The company’s shares climbed 1.1 percent to $41.46 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They earlier
rose to $42.78, the highest intraday price since October 2007.
The stock has gained 54 percent in the past year.  The spinoff will allow investors to choose between
Marriott’s hotel management and property development businesses.
It will likely give the hotel company a higher valuation after
separating from the slower-growth timeshare business, according
to Joseph Greff, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “Marriott’s lodging fee business needs little  capital
investment , while timeshare needs some level of investment, so
this spin could be accretive to free  cash flow ,” Greff wrote in
a research note yesterday. “Our initial take on the spinoff is
that this is likely going to be well received by investors.”  The company has pursued an asset-light strategy, divesting
most of its hotel real estate and concentrating on operating
properties rather than building and owning them. The timeshare
business, hurt by a slump in demand during the recession, is
focused more on development, said  Patrick Scholes , a New York-
based analyst with FBR Capital Markets.  ‘Investor Pressure’  “There has been investor pressure for many years to sell
that business,” he said. “If you want to grow the timeshare
business, you have to invest heavily in real estate and
development and build things from the ground up. Marriott
shareholders aren’t keen on that.”  Stock in the timeshare business, which had revenue of about
$1.5 billion last year, will be distributed to Marriott
shareholders as a tax-free dividend by the end of this year, the
Bethesda, Maryland-based company said yesterday in a statement.
The spinoff is likely to trade on the New York Stock Exchange,
Marriott said.  The timeshare business, which Marriott started in 1984, has
been slow to recover from a decline in  consumer spending . In the
fourth quarter, Marriott’s timeshare sales fell to $201 million
from $203 million a year earlier.  “This had nothing to do with how the timeshare business
has been impacted,” Arne Sorenson, Marriott’s president and
chief operating officer, said of the planned spinoff in a
telephone interview. “It obviously has been impacted by the
downturn. Compared to the recession earlier this decade, it was
hit harder this time. It’s more about that investors prefer one
or the other.”  Separate Boards  Marriott and the new company will have separate boards.
J.W. Marriott Jr. will remain chairman and CEO of Marriott
International. Stephen Weisz, president of the timeshare
business, will become CEO of the new company. William Shaw, who
recently announced his retirement as Marriott’s vice chairman,
will become chairman of the timeshare company.  After the special dividend, the Marriott family probably
will hold about 21 percent of the common stock of each company.
The new company is unlikely to pay a quarterly cash dividend or
be investment grade “in the near term,” Marriott said.  The timeshare unit accounts for about 13 percent of
Marriott’s total revenue. Marriott will continue to receive
franchise fees from the timeshare company’s use of the Marriott
and Ritz-Carlton brands, the hotelier said.  “The timeshare business is a very capital intensive real
estate business,” Scholes said. “The rest is a global
management and franchise business with minimal  capital
expenditures  and minimal ownership.”  Marriott yesterday also reported fourth-quarter earnings
that beat analysts’ estimates. Net income climbed to $173
million, or 46 cents a share, from $106 million, or 28 cents, a
year earlier, the company said. Adjusted earnings, which exclude
an $84 million impairment for revenue-management software and
other costs, totaled 39 cents a share, more than the 37-cent
average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of five analysts.  Revenue climbed to $3.64 billion in the fourth quarter from
$3.38 billion a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  