-- 
Arsenal to Get `Nasty' Against Barcelona, Wilshere Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-02-14T09:16:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/arsenal-to-get-nasty-against-barcelona-wilshere-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Arsenal Plan  Arsenal’s  Jack Wilshere  said the London team needs to be
“a bit nasty” and “get in the faces” of Barcelona’s players
in their Champions League game in two days,  the Guardian 
reported.  The first game of the two-part round-of-16 games is at the
Gunners’ Emirates stadium.  Bale Out  Tottenham coach Harry Redknapp said  Gareth Bale  won’t be
fit for the Champions League game at AC Milan because of a back
injury, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Bale sustained the injury on Jan. 22 and hasn’t recovered
enough to play, the Mail said.  West Ham Approval  West Ham is expected to get final approval from government
ministers this week to take over the Olympic stadium after the
2012 Games,  the Telegraph said .  Tottenham, which lost its effort to get the facility, may
take legal action because executives don’t think due process was
followed, but U.K. Sports Minister Hugh Robertson said he was
satisfied the award to West Ham was independent, the newspaper
said.  Everton Slump  Everton coach David Moyes said a 2-0 loss at Bolton was the
worst he can remember in his nine-year stint managing the team,
 the Sun  reported.  The Merseyside team, which lacked “toughness,” according
to Moyes, is three points off the three-team relegation zone.  Drop Drogba  Chelsea coach  Carlo Ancelotti  may drop striker Didier Drogba for tonight’s Premier League game at Fulham, the  Daily
Mail  reported.  Ancelotti wants to give record signing  Fernando Torres  the
best chance to succeed, the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 