-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks, Commodities Climb on China Exports; Euro Weakens

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 
2011-02-14T14:42:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/asia-stocks-rebound-from-worst-week-since-august-on-japan-gdp-euro-falls.html
Emerging market stocks rallied the
most in a month and commodities gained following  China ’s bigger-
than-forecast growth in exports and Egypt’s plan to hand power
to a democratically elected government. The euro weakened and
Spanish bonds fell, while U.S. equities fluctuated.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 1.3 percent at
9:41 a.m. in  New York  after the Shanghai Composite Index closed
up 2.5 percent. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.4 percent,
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index drifted between gains and
losses. Wheat climbed as much as 1.8 percent and copper topped
$10,000 a metric ton. The euro depreciated against its 16 major
peers and the Spanish 10-year bond yield rose four basis points.  The advance in the Shanghai Composite was its biggest of
the year after China’s exports jumped 38 percent in January.  Egypt ’s ruling army council said it aims to transfer power
within six months after almost three weeks of unrest ended the
30-year rule of President  Hosni Mubarak . European finance
ministers meet today and tomorrow in Brussels to review debt-
reduction targets.  “The global recovery based on consumption is now better
placed to continue on its trajectory,” said  Vishnu Varathan , a
Singapore-based economist at Capital Economics Asia Pte. “With
Mubarak stepping down, there’s greater hope the region will find
its way to a sustainable path to democracy.”  The MSCI gauge of 21 emerging markets recovered more than
one-third of last week’s 3.4 percent drop that left the index
trading at 13.8 times earnings, the lowest level since August,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s
Sensitive Index rallied 2.7 percent, led by Tata Motors Ltd.,
the nation’s biggest truckmaker, after profit more than tripled.  Wal-Mart Downgrade  The  S&P 500  slipped after closing last week at the highest
level since June 2008 and a valuation of about 15.9 times its
companies reported operating earnings, the most-expensive in
almost eight months. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world’s biggest
retailer, lost 0.9 percent as JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its
recommendation to “neutral” from “overweight.”  Three stocks gained for every one fell in Europe’s Stoxx
600. John Wood Group Plc rallied 14 percent after General
Electric Co. agreed to buy its well-support division for about
$2.8 billion. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 1.5 percent,
with Japan’s Topix index advancing for a sixth day as the
country’s gross domestic product shrank less than expected.    Orascom Construction Industries , Egypt’s biggest publicly
traded builder, rose 4.5 percent in London trading. Commercial
International Bank, the largest lender, jumped 5.6 percent.
Egypt’s stock exchange has been closed since the end of trading
on Jan. 27. Trading, which was due to reopen on Feb. 16, may now
start Feb. 20, according to the bourse. The government’s dollar
bonds and credit-default swaps were little changed today.  Wheat, Copper  Wheat futures surged to $9.15 a bushel on the Chicago Board
of Trade, the highest price since Aug. 22, 2008. Egypt is the
world’s biggest wheat importer. Copper jumped 1.5 percent on
increased imports in China, the world’s largest buyer of
industrial metals.  The euro depreciated 0.9 percent versus the dollar and 0.8
percent against the yen. The  New Zealand dollar  slid 0.8 percent
versus the U.S. currency after a report showed retail sales fell
in December from a month earlier.  Australia ’s currency advanced
against most of its major counterparts after government data
showed home loans climbed more than economists forecast.    Europe , U.S. Bonds  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds rose four basis points.
The yield on the equivalent-maturity Italian security climbed
two basis points.  The yield on the two-year Treasury note was within three
basis points of an eight-month high before reports this week
forecast to show that the U.S. recovery is taking hold. The  Federal Reserve  is scheduled to buy $1-$2 billion of Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities today as part of its so-called
quantitative-easing program.  The cost of insuring against losses on European bank bonds
rose, with the Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default
swaps rising 6 basis points to 166, the highest since Jan. 31,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Ireland’s opposition party
said before a meeting of European finance ministers that senior
bank bondholders should share the cost of bailing out the
country’s financial system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at   jcarrigan@bloomberg.net . 