-- 
Asian Stocks Rebound as Japan's GDP Beats Estimates, Egypt's Mubarak Quits

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-02-14T10:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/asian-stocks-rebound-from-worst-week-since-august-on-mubarak-s-resignation.html
Asian stocks advanced, rebounding
from the biggest weekly decline since August, after Japan’s
economy shrank less than estimated and Egyptian President  Hosni
Mubarak  resigned.  Toyota Motor Corp. the world’s largest automaker, rallied
2.5 percent in Tokyo amid plans to reorganize management and as
the yen depreciated against the dollar. Rio Tinto Group and BHP
Billiton Ltd. advanced at least 1.4 percent in Sydney after  Rio
Tinto  forecast higher copper prices and base metals rose in  London . Chinese stocks advanced on speculation the rate of
inflation will be slower than estimated.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rallied 1.5 percent to 137.85
at 7:29 p.m. in Tokyo, set for its biggest advance since
December. The benchmark gauge last week sank 2.7 percent after
China raised borrowing costs and anti-government protests
intensified in Egypt as Mubarak defied calls for his resignation
following protests in Cairo.  “There’s been concern that an escalation of tension in
Egypt could disrupt oil supplies,” said Sydney-based  Shane Oliver , head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors
Ltd., which manages about $93 billion. Mubarak’s resignation
“has substantially eased these concerns. Despite the potential
for a short-term bounce in Asian markets they remain vulnerable
to worries about rising inflation.”  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.8 percent as the
economy shrank less than forecast in the three months to Dec. 31.
It was the first decline in five quarters as exports slowed.  Japan GDP  Gross domestic product contracted at an annualized 1.1
percent, following a revised 3.3 percent expansion in the
previous quarter, the Cabinet Office said today in Tokyo. That
compares with the median economist forecast for a 2 percent drop,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.    China ’s Shanghai Composite Index jumped 2.5 percent to a
two-month high and the  Hang Seng Index  increased 1.3 percent in  Hong Kong  amid speculation January inflation data will be lower
than expected, reducing the need to raise  interest rates .  In Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 1.1 percent,  South Korea ’s Kospi Index rose 1.9 percent and  Taiwan ’s Taiex
Index gained 0.9 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The gauge rallied 0.6 percent on Feb. 11, boosted
by Mubarak’s resignation after 30 years at the helm and a jump
in U.S. consumer confidence.  Crude oil traded near a 10-week low as Egypt’s resolution
eased concern that crude shipments from the Middle East will be
disrupted. Oil futures slipped 1.3 percent after  Egypt ’s Vice
President  Omar Suleiman  made the announcement on state
television, handing power to the military.  Toyota Shake-Up  Toyota increased 2.5 percent to 3,870 yen after two people
familiar with the company’s plan said the carmaker is planning
to cut its board to at least 17 members from the current 27 to
improve decision making after a series of product recalls. It is
the biggest management reorganization in eight years.  Nissan Motor Co. which receives more than 75 percent of its
revenue abroad, gained 1.4 percent to 880 yen as the decline in
the yen boosted the value of overseas income at Japanese
companies. Honda Motor Corp. increased 2.8 percent to 3,640 yen.  The yen depreciated to as low as 83.57 against the dollar,
compared with 82.57 at the close of  stock trading  in Tokyo on
Feb. 10.  Rio increased 1.4 percent to A$88.50 in Sydney as the
world’s third-largest mining company forecast copper prices to
continue to climb amid rising demand. BHP, the world’s biggest
mining company, jumped 1.9 percent to A$47.28.  ‘Strong’ Copper Price  “We will see a continued period of strong copper pricing,
largely because many of the large mines, including our own, are
seeing declining grades, deepening pits,” Tom Albanese, chief
executive officer of London-based Rio Tinto, told Australian
Broadcasting Corp.’s Inside Business television program.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum rose 0.1 percent
on Feb. 11.    Whitehaven Coal Ltd . climbed 2 percent to A$7.24 after
Korea Resources Corp. and Daewoo International Corp. submitted a
joint bid for the Australian coal miner. Preliminary offers for
the company were due this month.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s
biggest lender by market value, rose 1.9 percent to HK$5.79 in
Hong Kong and Anhui Conch Cement Co., China’s biggest cement
maker, rose 8.6 percent to HK$37.30. China Vanke Co., the
country’s biggest developer, gained 4.1 percent to 8.60 yuan in
Shenzhen.  China Inflation Slowing?  China’s statistics bureau is due to release January
economic data tomorrow, including consumer prices. Inflation
last month may have accelerated to 5.4 percent, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, from 4.6
percent in December.  “There’s speculation that China may report slower
inflation,” said  Castor Pang , Hong Kong-based research director
at Cinda International Holdings Ltd. “Hence tightening concern
may ease in the short term.”  Chinese cement makers also advanced after the Shanghai
Securities News said the nation’s demand may increase this year.  Nippon Yusen K.K., Japan’s biggest shipping line by sales,
advanced 1.3 percent to 378 yen after a gauge of cargo tariffs
increased. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., the second-largest, rallied
3.8 percent to 579 yen.  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of shipping costs for
commodities, rose for a fifth consecutive day on Feb. 11.  Insurance  Australia  Group Ltd. dropped 4 percent to A$3.63
in Sydney after the company cut its insurance margin forecast.  IAG reported a 3.7 percent drop in first-half insurance
profit to A$470 million ($471 million) amid rising claims for
injuries in the U.K. and damage caused by natural disasters.  STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. tumbled 11 percent to
27,100 won in  Seoul  after the builder of the world’s largest
cruise ship missed out on a Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in Sydney at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 