-- 
Asian Thermal Coal Contracts May Rise 36% to Record After Rains

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-02-14T23:29:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/asian-power-station-coal-contracts-may-increase-36-to-record-after-rains.html
Asian utilities begin negotiations
with coal producers this week and may be forced to pay as much
as 36 percent more for their fuel after heavy rain in  Australia ,
Indonesia, South Africa and Colombia disrupted output.  Prices for the year starting April 1 may increase to
between $125 and $133 a metric ton, analysts from Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, UOB-Kay Hian Ltd., Citigroup Inc. and
National Australia Bank Ltd. said. Japanese utilities agreed to
pay  Xstrata Plc  $98 a ton for the 12 months starting April 1,
2010, the company said in August.  “There are still lingering supply concerns around the
place, not just in Australia,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity
research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Melbourne, said by telephone. The bank has forecast contract
prices may rise to $125 a ton.  Heavy rain has crimped output in  Colombia , Indonesia and
Australia, where flooding in December and January shut mines
and damaged rail lines in Queensland, the nation’s biggest
coal-producing state. Prices more than doubled to a record $125
a ton in 2008 after floods disrupted supply from the state.
Contract negotiations start this week, according to Citigroup.  While prices of the fuel for immediate delivery “have
eased back” after increasing to a two-year high last month,
“the focus will be on the longer-term outlook,” Citigroup
analysts said in a Feb. 11 note. “We still see strong demand
growth and expect contract prices to be settled at record
highs.” The bank forecast contract prices at $130 a ton.  Newcastle Price  The price for thermal coal at the port of Newcastle in New
South Wales, the benchmark for  Asia , rose to $138.50 a metric
ton in the week ended Jan. 14, the highest since September 2008,
according to IHS McCloskey, a Petersfield, U.K.-based provider
of data. It was at $120.75 in the week ended Feb. 11.  Queensland exports about 50 million tons of thermal coal
each year, according to Macquarie Group Ltd. Shipments of the
power station variety may be reduced by more than 5 million tons
after a landslide shut a rail network that serves mines operated
by  Peabody Energy Corp . and New Hope Corp., Citigroup analysts, 
led by Daniel Hynes, said in the Feb. 11 report.  Merrill Lynch analysts led by Sydney-based Alex Tonks said
contract prices may rise to $125 a ton, and National Australia
Bank Ltd. minerals and energy economist,  Ben Westmore , said they
may increase to $130 a ton. UOB-Kay Hian Hong Kong-based analyst  Helen Lau  said they may reach $133 a ton.  Annual accords between mining companies and customers may
be agreed “by mid-to-late March,” Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group’s Pervan said. “Xstrata has become the number one
player in the market. It’s their deal with a Japanese utility,
usually Tokyo Electric,” that sets the benchmark for prices.    James Rickards , Sydney-based spokesman for Xstrata, didn’t
return two voicemails left at his office and his mobile phone.
The Zug, Switzerland-based company is the largest exporter of
thermal coal. Tokyo Electric Power Co. is Asia’s biggest
utility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  