-- 
Assange Attack on Sweden, Prosecutor May Give Appearance of `Mud Slinging'

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-14T01:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/assange-attack-on-sweden-prosecutor-may-give-appearance-of-mud-slinging-.html
Julian Assange’s U.K. lawyers,
seeking to block the WikiLeaks founder’s extradition to  Sweden 
on rape claims, may have chosen the wrong tactic by criticizing
Swedish justice and labeling the prosecutor behind the case as a
“radical feminist,” lawyers say.  Witnesses at hearings last week in London said Swedish rape
trials are secretive and portrayed prosecutor Marianne Ny as a
“crusader” on gender issues who had a hand in shaping Sweden’s
“harsh” rape laws. The tactic may be a sign of desperation and
is unlikely to stop Assange’s extradition, said Neill Blundell,
a lawyer with Eversheds LLP in London.  Bashing Sweden could be “an attempt to deflect attention”
from  Europe ’s  cross-border arrest process , which is difficult to
avoid when warrants are issued from stable countries, Blundell
said in an interview. “We’re not dealing with some dictatorship
in an African state; we’re talking about Sweden, which has a
highly respected judicial system.”  Assange, 39, is fighting extradition after being arrested
and released on bail in  London  in December. The allegations,
made by two Swedish women who each hosted Assange overnight at
their homes in August, were revealed as WikiLeaks drew
condemnation for posting thousands of classified U.S. military
and diplomatic documents on its website.  District Judge Howard Riddle said he may take two weeks to
make a decision. Another hearing is set for Feb. 24. Assange
remains free on bail.  Swedish Prime Minister  During three days of hearings last week, Assange’s lawyer,
Geoffrey Robertson, introduced evidence of repeated mistakes by
Ny in the arrest process and questioned the political motivation
of her and other prosecutors on the case.  On the last day of the hearing, Robertson expanded his
attack to include the country’s prime minister, Fredrik Reinfeldt, saying he had used a speech to turn Assange into
“public enemy number one.”  Brita Sundberg-Weitman, a Swedish lawyer and former judge,
testified that Ny prefers to throw male abusers in prison before
their alleged victims determine whether they had been
mistreated. She also called another Swedish lawyer in the case,
Claes Borgstrom, an “ultra-radical feminist” and said both
lawyers played an active role in amending Swedish law to make it
more favorable toward women.  “Although some reforms have been welcome, there is concern
that others are actually producing unfairness and discrimination
against men,” Sundberg-Weitman said.  Criminal Acts?  Another of Assange’s lawyers,  Mark Stephens , said after the
hearing that Ny should come to London herself and testify. Ny’s
office has declined to comment on the claims made about her in
witness statements. Stephens regularly represents media 
organizations including Bloomberg News.  Robertson has also said that the acts Assange is accused of
wouldn’t be considered crimes in Britain. The Swedish warrant
covers one count of unlawful coercion, two counts of sexual
molestation and one count of rape, including claims that Assange
in August failed to use a condom after being asked to do so. In
a separate incident, he is accused of engaging in sex while
another woman was asleep.  While such an approach may be “tactically astute” if it
damages a prosecutor’s credibility, Robertson may have gone too
far by attacking Borgstrom, a politician with the Social
Democrat party, said Dan Hyde, a lawyer with Cubism Law in
London.  “Credibility attacks have to be selective and cautious,”
Hyde said. “The danger in launching a similar attack on the
other lawyer is that unless it’s utterly convincing, it gives
the appearance of a mud-slinging strategy.”  ‘Extreme Feminism’  Swedish lawyers said the country’s rape laws are
increasingly designed to protect women.  “Extreme feminism has taken over more and more” in
Swedish society, said Peter Haglund, a defense lawyer who has
represented more than 150 accused rapists since 1985. “Men are
seen as fundamentally evil.”  The claims likely will not convince a judge to go against a
well-established procedure like the European arrest warrant,
said Peter Watson, a lawyer with Allen & Overy LLP in London.  “If there are underlying facts warranting a prosecution,
it matters not to the English courts if the prosecutor is a
crusader, man-hater or from Mars,” Watson said in an interview.  Claiming Assange won’t get a fair trial in Sweden “is
really the least promising line of attack,” said Dan Hooper, a
lawyer with Reynolds Porter Chamberlain in London. Certain
attacks on Ny were also undermined on cross-examination by the
U.K. prosecutor, he said.  Fair Trial  “It’s unlikely that this case is going to be resolved in
favor of Mr. Assange, either on the basis that he doesn’t have a
chance of getting a fair trial or that the prosecution is in the
hands of a mad woman,” Hyde said. “The judge will be inclined
to think that she wouldn’t be in the position if she wasn’t
competent.”  Even if the attack on Swedish justice fails to block the
extradition, Assange’s legal team still shed light on potential
problems with the European arrest warrant, Blundell said,
including its use to arrest someone for questioning.  “The lawyers have been effective in bringing to the
court’s attention some discrepancies in the European arrest
warrant,” Blundell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  