-- 
Aussie Appreciates Versus the Yen as Inflation Concern About China Eases

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-02-15T16:58:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/aussie-trades-near-month-s-low-versus-dollar-before-china-inflation-data.html
The Australian dollar strengthened
to a nine-month high against the yen after a Chinese report
showed consumer prices rose less than economists forecast,
boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie earlier gained against the  U.S. dollar  after the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said in minutes of its February
meeting that a “slightly restrictive” policy stance was
appropriate as a resources boom boosts incomes. New Zealand’s
dollar fell for a fifth day against the U.S. currency as Asian
stocks advanced.  The  China  “outcome is slightly bullish for the commodity
currencies as it’s likely to, on the margin, support the view
that some of the fears on the pick-up in Chinese and Asian
inflation are perhaps overplayed,” said  Todd Elmer , the
Singapore-based head of Group-of-10 currency strategy for Asia
ex-Japan at Citigroup Inc. “The Aussie is a buy on dips.”  Australia’s dollar advanced 0.1 percent to 83.69 yen at
11:56 a.m. in  New York  from 83.57 yen yesterday, and earlier
touched 83.90, the strongest since May 13. It traded at 99.89
U.S. cents from $1.0029 yesterday. New Zealand’s currency traded
at 63.02 yen and fetched 75.20 U.S. cents from 75.67 cents.  China’s consumer prices rose 4.9 percent last month from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau said, compared with a 4.6
percent gain in December and a median forecast for 5.4 percent
in a Bloomberg survey. China is Australia’s largest trading
partner and New Zealand’s second-biggest export market.  Minutes of the RBA’s Feb. 1 meeting showed policy makers
said “there had been a stronger tone to the data on the global
economy” since they gathered in December. Restraint in  consumer
spending  was slowing inflation and offsetting stronger demand
for resources, they said.  “The tone of the minutes is consistent with an overall
tightening bias,”  Michael Turner , a fixed-income strategist at
Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney, wrote
in a note to clients.  The RBA will increase its benchmark rate by 33 basis points
over the next 12 months, according to a Credit Suisse AG index
based on swaps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  