-- 
Australian Home-Loan Approvals Rose 2.1% in December

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-02-14T01:43:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/australian-home-loan-approvals-rose-twice-economists-forecast-in-december.html
Australian home-loan approvals rose
by more than twice the amount economists forecast in December as
the nation ended a record year for job growth with unemployment
near a two-year low.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments climbed 2.1 percent from November, when they
increased 2.5 percent, the statistics bureau said in Sydney
today. That compares with the median estimate for approvals to
rise 1 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 13 economists.    Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens held the
benchmark rate at 4.75 percent for a second meeting this month
after a quarter percentage-point rise in November. Demand for
home loans, which tumbled for seven straight months through
April last year as the RBA embarked on the most aggressive round
of rate rises by a Group of 20 member, may increase as the
central bank forecasts the economy will accelerate this year.  The figures “continue to suggest a midyear pick-up in
residential construction through mid-2011,”  Michael Turner , an
economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney, wrote in a
report.
“The resilience of the broader residential sector will
encourage the RBA that its November hike -- and the additional
tightening done by local lenders -- has not choked off
confidence.”  RBA Forecast  Turner said he predicts the RBA to increase rates by half a
percentage point this year.    Australia ’s dollar ended three days of declines after the
release, trading at $1.0027 at 12:08 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0021
before the data. The so-called Aussie has closed above $1 for
the past nine trading days, matching the longest streak above
parity in the post-float era that began in 1983.  The value of loans to investors who plan to rent or resell
homes advanced 3 percent, today’s report showed. The value of
lending to owner-occupiers gained 2.3 percent.  The total value of loans rose 2.5 percent to A$21.6 billion
($21.7 billion) in December, the report showed.  First-time home buyers accounted for 15.8 percent of
dwellings that were financed in December, up from 15.6 percent
in November and lower than 21.5 percent a year earlier, the
report showed today.  GDP Forecast  The RBA this month raised its forecast for 2011 growth to
4.25 percent, from a November prediction of 3.75 percent.
Consumer prices will rise 3 percent, from a previous estimate of
2.75 percent, it said.  Australian  house prices  unexpectedly rose in the three
months through December, a government report showed this month.  An index measuring the weighted average of prices for
established houses in eight major cities climbed 0.7 percent
last quarter from the previous three months, the  Australian
Bureau of Statistics  said Feb. 1. They gained 5.8 percent from a
year earlier.  Australian employers added a revised 1,800 jobs in
December, capping a record year of job growth. The  unemployment
rate  dropped to 5 percent in December, the lowest level since
January 2009.  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  