-- 
Australia Blocked Rare Earth Deal on Supply Concerns

-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 
2011-02-15T05:51:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/australia-blocked-china-rare-earth-takeover-on-concern-of-threat-to-supply.html
China’s bid to gain control of the
world’s richest rare earth deposit in 2009 was blocked by  Australia ’s Foreign Investment Review Board on concern it would
threaten supply to non-Chinese buyers.  State-owned China Non-Ferrous Metal Mining (Group) Co. in
May 2009 offered A$252 million for a 51.6 percent stake in Lynas
Corp., which needed cash to resume development of the Mount Weld
rare earth mine in  Western Australia .  Minutes of a meeting by the review board on Sept. 23, 2009,
obtained by Bloomberg News through an Australia Freedom of
Information Act request, show a concern the deal could undermine
Australia as a reliable trading partner.  “We have concluded that they would not be able to exclude
the possibility that Lynas’ production could be controlled to
the detriment of non-Chinese end users,” the minutes show. That
would have been “inconsistent with the government’s policy of
maintaining Australia’s position as a reliable supplier to all
our trading partners and hence potentially contrary to national
interest.”  Even without Lynas, China controls more than 95 percent of
the world’s supply of rare earths, used in Research in Motion
Ltd.’s BlackBerrys, Apple Inc.’s iPods and General Dynamics
Corp. tanks. In 2010,  China  said it would slash exports of the
metals, souring ties with major users including the U.S. and
Japan and causing prices to surge.  Rare earths are 17 chemically similar elements, including
neodymium and dysprosium. Prices of neodymium oxide, which is
used in mini hard drives in laptops and headphones in iPods,
have doubled since the start of the December quarter, according
to information on Lynas’ website.  China Owned  The review board, known as the FIRB, ordered China Non-
Ferrous to limit its Lynas stake to less than 50 percent even
after both companies agreed independent directors would control
all marketing of rare earths products, the Australian company
said in a Sept. 24, 2009, statement.  The review board said it was aware of international concern
regarding access to rare earths and that there were limited new
suppliers. Concerns also were raised by rare earth users outside
of China, it said. The reasons for those concerns were redacted
in the minutes.  Wang Changming, a spokesman for Beijing-based China Non-
Ferrous, declined to comment. Lynas’ Executive Vice President of
Strategy and Corporate Communications Matthew James declined to
comment as he hadn’t seen the minutes.  Welcome Investment  After the China Non-Ferrous deal was scrapped, Lynas raised
A$450 million in a share sale to fund its A$550 million ($553
million) Mount Weld mine, which the company says has the richest
grades of ore for rare earth metals in the world.  Australia “will continue to welcome equity investment in
Australia’s rare earth producers by foreign investors, including
Chinese enterprises,” the board minutes show. Bloomberg News
applied for the information on Nov. 23 to the nation’s Treasury,
which advised by FIRB.  China invested $26.6 billion in Australia in 2008-09,
according to the review board’s annual report, the most recent
available. That put China second only to the U.S. as the largest
source of foreign investment in Australia.  Shares in Sydney-based Lynas have gained more than
threefold in the past year, compared with an 8.1 percent gain in
Australia’s benchmark index. The stock last traded at A$1.965 at
the 4:10 p.m. Sydney close on the Australian stock exchange
today.  Slash Exports  The Bloomberg Rare Earth Mineral Resources Index of 14
companies that have rare-earth deposits more than doubled in the
past 12 months, and has risen 3.3 percent this year.  China, the biggest buyer of Australia’s mineral exports,
introduced its export quota system for rare earths in 1999 and
first reduced them in 2001. It cut exports by 8.1 percent in
2009 to 119,500 metric tons.  Last July, the country said it would slash exports 72
percent to meet domestic demand and preserve reserves. That was
followed in December by a 35 percent cut in quotas to 14,446
tons for the first half of 2011.  Consumers have been struggling to secure alternate supply.
Lynas and U.S.-based  Molycorp Inc ., owner of the world’s largest
non-Chinese deposits of rare-earth metals, are the only
“genuine companies coming on-stream that can offer a meaningful
level of production,” Investec Bank Australia Ltd. said Oct.
21.  U.S. Lawmakers  Lynas will start output from the first stage of its mine in
the September quarter at a capacity of 11,000 tons a year, it
said this month in a statement to the Australian stock exchange.  Japanese trading house  Sojitz Corp . and Lynas agreed in
November to seek as much as $250 million to double the capacity
of the Mount Weld mine, Lynas said. Sojitz will request
financing from the Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corp., a
government agency.  Lynas will allocate at least 8,500 tons a year to the
Japanese market for 10 years, once the funding is secured. Japan
is the world’s biggest consumer of rare earths and the second-
biggest buyer of Australia’s commodity exports.  U.S. officials and lawmakers began calling for development
of domestic rare-earth supplies after China’s July announcement.  Supplies are “at risk” of being disrupted, the U.S.
Energy Department said in a report last year. The price for rare
earth carbonate has gained almost threefold from a low in
January 2009, according to Steelhome prices on Bloomberg, which
began compiling data in January 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  