-- 
European Stocks Rebound; Basic-Resource, Real Estate Companies Lead Gains

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-05-18T16:16:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/european-stock-futures-gain-as-commodities-climb-enrc-xstrata-may-rise.html
European stocks climbed, snapping the
longest losing streak in two months, as  Land Securities Group
Plc (LAND)  led gains in property companies and basic-resource producers
rallied with commodities.  Land Securities surged the most in almost two years after
the U.K.’s largest real-estate investment trust reported
earnings that topped estimates.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  climbed as
copper jumped the most in two months in London.  Ageas (AGS)  led
declining shares as benchmark gauges in the euro region’s
peripheral countries fell.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 0.3 percent to 278.17 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The measure, which fell for the
previous four days, is still down 4.5 percent from this year’s
high on Feb. 17 as a selloff in commodities and concern the debt
crisis will derail the economic recovery overshadowed company
profits and government stimulus measures.  “Equities will continue to grind higher, but there will be
pockets of volatility with geopolitical news flow,” said Kevin Lilley, a London-based  fund manager  who helps oversee about $2
billion at Royal London Asset Management. “Companies have got
strong balance sheets and policy stimulus will only get removed
when it’s clear that there is sufficient growth.”  National benchmark indexes gained in 12 of the 18 western
European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 rallied 1.1 percent
and  Germany ’s DAX advanced 0.7 percent.  Portugal ’s PSI-20 fell
0.4 percent and Greece’s ASE dropped 1.4 percent as Alpha Bank
SA slid 3.6 percent to 3.52 euros.  Greek Debt  European Central Bank officials today ruled out a Greek
debt restructuring, clashing with political leaders over a
solution to the sovereign financial crisis. Ministers earlier in
the week floated the idea of extending  Greece ’s debt-repayment
schedule as it struggles to meet the terms of its 110 billion-
euro ($156 billion) bailout.  Bank of England  policy makers voted 6-3 to keep  interest
rates  on hold this month as the majority warned that tightening
policy now could damp  consumer spending  and harm the recovery.
The U.S. Federal Reserve was due to release minutes from last
month’s policy meeting after the close of European trading.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said in a
Bloomberg Television interview that the central bank is in a
“fairly good position” to pause in its stimulus and that “it
is reasonable” to expect policy tightening by the end of 2011.  Land Securities Soars  Land Securities surged 6.4 percent to 795.5 pence, its
biggest gain since August 2009, after reporting a 14 percent
increase in annual net income to 1.24 billion pounds ($2
billion) as the value of its properties increased. That beat
analysts’ projected profit of about 979 million pounds,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  British Land Co., the U.K.’s second-biggest REIT, advanced
4.6 percent to 604.5 pence and  Hammerson Plc (HMSO) , the third-largest,
rallied 3.2 percent to 479.2 pence. A gauge of real-estate
companies in the Stoxx 600 had the biggest gain in two months.  Antofagasta, the copper producer controlled by Chile’s
Luksic family, rose 2.9 percent to 1,208 pence as base metals
advanced on the London Metal Exchange. Copper had the biggest
increase since March 17.  Kazakhmys,  Kazakhstan ’s biggest copper company, gained 3.2
percent to 1,256 pence and Vedanta Resources Plc increased 1.8
percent to 2,135 pence.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. rallied 4.3 percent to 841
pence after Citigroup Inc. upgraded the producer of metals in
Kazakhstan to “buy” from “hold.”  Yara, SGL  Yara International ASA (YAR)  rose 2 percent to 305.4 kroner after
the price of corn rose for a fifth day in  Chicago , the longest
winning streak since December. The world’s biggest publicly
traded nitrogen-fertilizer maker also announced new season
nitrate prices in Europe.  SGL Carbon SE (SGL)  jumped 6 percent to 35.77 euros after the
company’s biggest shareholder, Susanne Klatten, increased her
 voting rights  in the world’s biggest maker of carbon and
graphite products to 26.98 percent last week. The German
billionaire is the owner of investment company Skion GmBH.  Ageas dropped 3.6 percent to 1.95 euros after the majority
owner of Belgium’s biggest life insurer said rising bond yields
depleted the value of the cushion available to absorb losses in
its insurance business. The market value of government and
corporate bonds held by Ageas subsidiaries fell about 1.2
billion euros in the quarter, reducing  shareholders’ equity  by
0.7 percent.  Storebrand ASA (STB) , Norway’s largest publicly traded insurer,
lost 2.8 percent to 49.42 kroner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  