-- 
Bahrain Protests Swell With Second Death, Tear Gas at Funeral

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-02-15T11:42:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/bahrain-deploys-police-officers-as-opposition-calls-for-day-of-protests.html
Protests against  Bahrain ’s
government escalated today as a second demonstrator was killed
and in Yemen anti-government marchers clashed with police as
unrest spreads through the Middle East.  Thousands of Bahrainis joined a procession near the
capital, Manama, carrying the coffin of Ali Abdul Hadi Mushaima
in the biggest demonstration so far in the  Persian Gulf  kingdom.
Mushaima was killed during clashes yesterday with police, who
fired bird-shot and rubber bullets and used tear gas. A second
protester died today in fighting at the funeral, the official
Bahrain News Agency said. The Shiite Muslim Al-Wefaq group
suspended participation in parliament to protest the violence.  In Yemen, stone-throwing protesters clashed with police as
they marched toward the presidential palace, the fifth day of
demonstrations calling for an end to President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s rule. Iranian security forces yesterday used tear gas to
break up the biggest anti-government protests since the
aftermath of the disputed presidential election in June 2009.  Popular demands for democracy and civil rights, invigorated
by the mass protests that toppled Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak  last
week, are rattling the autocratic rulers of a region that holds
about three-fifths of the world’s oil reserves. Brent crude
futures rose for a second day after closing yesterday at the
highest level since September 2008.  Gulf Regimes  The protests in Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth
Fleet, and  Iran  mark the spread of unrest into the Persian Gulf,
the area where most Middle Eastern oil is produced. Many Gulf
states including Saudi Arabia and the  United Arab Emirates  are
U.S. allies. All of the region’s governments are classified as
autocratic regimes in the Economist Intelligence Unit’s  2010
Democracy Index .  Shiites who represent as much as 70 percent of Bahrain’s
population say they face job and housing discrimination. King
Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa, a  Sunni Muslim , has ordered an
increase in food subsidies and social welfare payments, and a
grant of 1,000 dinars ($2,653) to each Bahraini family.  Mushaima’s funeral cortege was carrying the coffin, draped
with Shiite flags, to the dead man’s village as demonstrators
shouted “Down with Khalifa.” They were referring to Prime
Minister Sheikh Khalifa bin Salman al-Khalifa, who has held the
premiership for four decades.  “Clearly events are spiraling downwards as violence
mounts,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the
Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis.
“ More people may be killed and this will likely bring more
protesters onto to the streets. If pressure mounts too much and
the Kingdom is in danger, there may be outside intervention.”  ‘Sanctioned by Law’  Foreign Minister Khalid bin Ahmed bin Mohammed al-Khalifa
said in an interview yesterday that protests are “sanctioned by
the law” in Bahrain and won’t have the same effect as the
popular movements in Egypt and  Tunisia .  Bahrain’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell, sending yields up
6 basis points to 6.21 percent, the highest level since the debt
was issued in March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The cost of insuring Bahrain’s bonds against default jumped 10
basis points to 253, the highest in a week, according to CMA
prices for credit-default swaps.    Brent crude  for April settlement climbed as much as 96
cents, or 0.9 percent, to $104.04 a barrel in  London .  “Fear that civil unrest could spread into oil-producing
states in the Middle East is keeping investors nervous,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst with VTB Capital in London.  Iran Output  Iran is the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum-Exporting Countries, producing about 3.7 million
barrels a day, according to Bloomberg data. Bahrain pumped about
32,000 barrels a day of crude in 2009 and 1.49 billion cubic
feet of gas, according to the  national oil and gas authority .  Bahrain experienced clashes between Shiites and police
before parliamentary elections in October. The royal family has
close ties with Sunni-ruled Saudi Arabia, the largest Arab
economy. Many among Bahrain’s populace retain cultural and
family links with Shiite-dominated Iran,  Saudi Arabia ’s main
regional rival.  Al-Wefaq won 18 of 40 parliament seats in an October
election. The assembly can only pass laws with the consent of an
upper chamber whose members are chosen by the king.  The group will suspend its parliamentary role until the
protesters’ demands are met, senior lawmaker Abduljalil Khalil,
said in an interview today. “No one will accept cosmetic
changes,” he said, adding that al-Wefaq’s demands aren’t
influenced by Iran.  Protesters in Yemen are demanding that Saleh quit after
32 years in power. The president said on Feb. 2 that he won’t
seek to extend his term when it expires in 2013 and that his son
wouldn’t succeed him as president. At least 17 people were
injured and 165 detained in the capital, Sanaa, Xinhua news
agency reported yesterday, citing witnesses.  $2 a Day  Unlike Bahrain, the Yemen government -- which is struggling
to quell separatist movements and halt al-Qaeda operations based
in the country -- can’t afford to try to buy calm by offering
economic benefits. Yemen faces serious water shortages,
declining oil output and a society where more than half the
population of 23 million is under 20 years old. About 40 percent
of Yemen’s population lives on less than $2 a day.  Petroleum production and refining account for 60 percent of
Bahrain’s export receipts, 70 percent of government revenue and
11 percent of gross domestic product, which was about $22
billion last year, according to the CIA World Factbook.  Iran’s opposition movement says it has drawn inspiration
from the Arab revolts that removed Mubarak and Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. It accuses Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  of meeting popular demands for
change with violent repression.  Tear Gas, Batons  Yesterday’s demonstration in Tehran was backed by
opposition leaders including Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karrubi who challenged Ahmadinejad in the 2009 election and said
the result was rigged. Tens of thousands of protesters were
dispersed by security forces using tear gas and baton charges,
al-Jazeera television said. Iranian officials said one person, a
government supporter, was killed, the  Associated Press  reported.  In  Egypt , the army took control after Mubarak’s resignation
on Feb. 11 and has pledged to oversee a rewriting of the
constitution to prepare the ground for free elections. Tunisia
is also preparing for elections under an interim government
after Ben Ali’s Jan. 14 ouster, and opposition groups including
the main Islamist movement are competing with representatives of
the former ruling party to steer the transition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Bahrain at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 