-- 
Bank Fees to Shrink in Obama's Budget Proposal as TARP Program Costs Slide

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-02-14T21:43:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/bank-fees-shrink-in-obama-budget-proposal-as-tarp-costs-slide.html
President Barack Obama’s proposed
budget includes a smaller version of a fee he proposed last year
that would be paid by U.S. financial institutions, including  Bank of America Corp . and  JPMorgan Chase & Co .  Under the budget plan released today in Washington, the fee
would raise $30 billion over 10 years, down from $90 billion
when it was first proposed last year.  Like last year’s proposal, the fee would apply to bank
holding companies, thrift holding companies and broker-dealers
with more than $50 billion in assets.  Even the smaller fee may face obstacles in Congress. The
banking industry opposed the initial fee, which was introduced
in January 2010. Steve Bartlett, president of the Financial
Services Roundtable, a Washington-based trade group that
represents the nation’s largest banks, said at the time the
administration proposal was “strictly political.”  Recouping Costs  The administration initially proposed the fee to recoup the
costs of the 2008 Troubled Asset Relief Program, as required
under the law establishing the program. As many banks have paid
back the money they received from the government, the estimated
cost of the program has shrunk.  The  Congressional Budget Office , which at one time
estimated the program would cost $350 billion, has lowered its
projection to as little as $25 billion. Of the $700 billion
Congress authorized for TARP in 2008, $410 billion was
disbursed.  Under the proposal released today, “covered liabilities”
would be taxed at 7.5 basis points, with more stable sources of
capital taxed at a discounted rate. The fee could be deducted
for corporate income tax purposes and would be structured in a
way that is “broadly consistent with the principles” agreed
upon by leaders of other large economies, according to the plan.  One basis point is equivalent to 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  