-- 
Batista Bid Has Brazil’s Richest Make Explorers Cheap: Real M&A

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-02-14T03:25:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/batista-gold-bid-has-brazil-s-richest-man-making-explorers-cheap-real-m-a.html
If Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista  gets his way by acquiring Vancouver-based  Ventana Gold
Corp . for about C$1 billion ($1 billion), he will make other
North American companies that develop the metal’s deposits look
cheap for would-be acquirers.  The bid from  Brazil ’s richest man values Ventana at about
$434 for each of the estimated 3.5 million ounces of gold at its
La Bodega project in Colombia, the second-highest among 68 U.S.
and Canadian exploration companies tracked by  RBC Capital
Markets . Batista is offering 8.3 times the value of Ventana’s
assets, the most expensive cash deal of $1 billion or more for a
gold company in the past decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Batista is betting the quality of La Bodega’s ore will set
it apart from rival projects after bullion’s surge to a record
drove acquisitions in the industry to the highest level since at
least 1998 last year.  Osisko Mining Corp ., the developer of a
Quebec mine, and  Detour Gold Corp ., seeking to build a project
in Ontario, are trading at as much as 81 percent less than
Ventana per ounce of gold and 67 percent cheaper based on total
assets, data compiled by RBC and Bloomberg show.  “Pretty much every gold company that we have a
relationship with is thinking about M&A,” said Jason Neal,
Toronto-based co-head of metals and mining at BMO Capital
Markets, an adviser on $27 billion of gold-mining deals in the
past year. “There’s a very high level of evaluation going on.”  Third Parties  Batista, 53, who bought his first gold mine at age 24,
already controls about  20 percent  of Ventana. His AUX  Canada 
Acquisition Inc. bid C$12.63 for the rest of the company on Nov.
17. Ventana rejected it on Dec. 23, saying the offer was
“inadequate and opportunistic and fails to recognize the full
value of Ventana.” The Canadian company said Feb. 8 it was in
talks with “third parties” to find a higher bid.  The offer expires tomorrow at 8 p.m. Toronto time.  At C$12.63, the bid valued Ventana at a 32 percent premium
to its average price during the previous 20 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s less than the average 39
percent for completed or pending gold takeovers of more than $1
billion in the past decade and in line with the 33 percent
premium for terminated deals, the data show.  Ventana rose 7 cents to C$12.28 on the Toronto Stock
Exchange on Feb. 11, extending its advance during the past year
to 42 percent, more than double the 20 percent gain in Canada’s
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index. Batista’s offer price is
2.9 percent above Ventana’s current level, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  World’s Richest Man  La Bodega, located 400 kilometers (249 miles) northeast of
Bogota, may generate 301,000 ounces of gold a year for its first
six years of production, according to the company’s website.  Mexico ’s  Carlos Slim , named the world’s richest man by Forbes
Magazine, said in an interview at Bloomberg News headquarters in  New York  last week he’s seeking to boost his investments in  Colombia  because of the country’s mineral assets.  Batista is betting on La Bodega after his Rio de Janeiro-
based shipbuilder OSX Brasil SA sank 45 percent since its March
initial public offering. He shelved plans for an IPO of his Rio
de Janeiro-based EBX Group Ltd. investment company in April.  “On a per-ounce basis the bid seems high, but there’s
likely more gold in the ground,” said Michael Fowler, a
Toronto-based analyst at Loewen, Ondaatje, McCutcheon Ltd. who
has a “speculative buy” on Ventana shares. “The grade is good
and overall it seems to be a quality project.”  Best Choice  The offer from Batista’s AUX remains the “best choice”
for Ventana shareholders as “no alternative transactions have
materialized,” AUX said in a statement on Feb. 11. His EBX said
in an e-mail to Bloomberg News yesterday that it would not have
any further comments until the expiration of the bid.  Richard Warke, Ventana’s chairman, didn’t return a call to
his office outside of normal business hours.  Batista’s offer values Ventana at 8.3 times total assets,
the second-highest among 20 deals for gold miners worth more
than $1 billion during the past decade and the most expensive
all-cash acquisition, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The bid
is 12.6 times Ventana’s book value, the third-highest level of
the past 10 years, the data show.    Goldcorp Inc . of  Vancouver , the second-biggest Canadian
gold producer, offered 21 times assets and 23 times book value
for  Andean Resources Ltd . The A$3.6 billion ($3.6 billion) deal
last month was the most expensive of the past decade on both
measures, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Shrewd and Capable’  “Eike’s a shrewd and capable businessman,” Don Poirier, a
Vancouver-based vice-president of corporate development at Hecla
Mining Co., said yesterday in a telephone interview. His bid for
Ventana “may influence how much investors are willing to pay
for other high-quality assets,” he said. “He’s created
significant wealth over decades and I’m sure he’s acutely aware
of this project’s potential.”  Osisko and Detour are both trading at cheaper levels than
Ventana. Montreal-based Osisko is valued at $205 an ounce, while
Detour of Toronto trades at $81 an ounce. The average of the 68
companies RBC tracks is $71 an ounce.  RBC said Osisko and Detour are among its favorite picks
from the group. Both have “large” deposits that have attracted
investors’ attention, Michael Curran, an analyst at Toronto-
based RBC, said in a Jan. 27 note. Osisko is trading at 2.7
times its total assets and Detour at 3.5 times, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  John Burzynski, Osisko’s vice-president of corporate
Development, and Gerald Panneton, Detour’s chief executive
officer, could not be reached for comment.  Higher Premiums  The value of gold-mining deals has surged with the metal’s
price. There were 91 takeovers of bullion companies worth $26.9
billion last year, compared with 96 deals for $5.7 billion in
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average
premium paid rose to 50 percent, the highest level since at
least 1998, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gold reached an all-time high $1,431.25 an ounce in London
trading on Dec. 7 and closed at $1,357.05 on Feb. 11.  A lack of supply growth may affect gold more than
industrial metals including copper and zinc, said David Garofalo, chief executive officer of Toronto-based  HudBay
Minerals Inc ., which produces all three. Exploration companies -
- known in the industry as junior miners -- raise funds to
locate and evaluate deposits and typically seek a takeover or
equity investment by a larger company with experience in
operating a mine.  ‘The Juniors’  “The senior gold producers have largely co-opted their
grass-roots exploration efforts to the juniors,” Garofalo said
in an interview on Jan. 25. “So they have to take out the
juniors to fill their development pipelines.”    Newmont Mining Corp ., the largest U.S. gold producer, said
Feb. 3 it agreed to buy Vancouver-based  Fronteer Gold Inc . for
C$2 billion, including net debt, to gain exploration and
development projects in  Nevada . Newmont of  Greenwood Village ,
Colorado, is paying 4.3 times Fronteer’s book value, 3.9 times
its assets and a premium of 41 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.    Kinross Gold Corp . of Toronto, which bought Red Back Mining
Inc. for C$8 billion in September, offered 5 times Vancouver-
based Red Back’s book value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Fastest Growth’  That purchase was criticized for being too expensive.
RiskMetrics Group Inc., an adviser to investors, said Kinross
shareholders should vote against the deal because the company
would have to achieve “significantly higher” output at Red
Back’s Tasiast project in Mauritania compared with the market
consensus to break even. Kinross may update investors on the
gold at Tasiast when it reports fourth-quarter earnings Feb. 16.  Tasiast “gives us the fastest growth profile in the
industry today,” Kinross CEO Tye Burt said Jan. 26 in an
interview at a TD Newcrest mining conference in Toronto. “The
other majors are going to look at that and say gee, perhaps we
need to do some things as well. That will put a little pressure
on them.”  There have been 2,769 deals announced globally in all
industries this year, totaling $229.5 billion, a 9.5 percent
increase from the $209.6 billion in the same period in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 