-- 
Beer Buyer Has More Smarts Than Goldman Banker: Scott Soshnick

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-02-14T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/beer-buyer-has-more-smarts-than-goldman-banker-scott-soshnick.html
If anyone in the wake of the  National Football League ’s Super Bowl seating fiasco can
reaffirm a sports fans belief that the paying customers matter,
it’s Mike Rupp of the Pittsburgh Penguins.  Rupp isn’t a SportsCenter staple, though he should be.
Every fan in every sport would be lucky to have a player like
Rupp on their favorite team. Every owner would be lucky to have
him, too. Great players win games. Players like Rupp win hearts
and minds.  Rupp might not possess the uncommon scoring touch of, say,
teammate and former Most Valuable Player  Sidney Crosby . He has,
however, showcased something even more rare: an everyman’s
appreciation for those who pay to sit and cheer.  It’s a lesson that still hasn’t reached the executive
suites at the NFL, where Commissioner Roger Goodell and
Executive Vice President Eric Grubman, a former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . investment banker, ought to telephone Rupp for a
little conversation about their duds and his suds, which we’ll
get to in a minute.  “It’s just a matter of every once in a while it’s good to
put yourself in someone else’s shoes,” Rupp, who will make
about $800,000 this season, said over the telephone the other
day.  Had Goodell or Grubman lived that mantra on Super Bowl
Sunday there’s no way that Green Bay fan Kim Beiser would have
labeled the day the Packers won the Super Bowl the worst
experience of her life.  ‘Never Forget’  “I’ll never forget the look of disappointment on my 16-
year-old son’s face,” she said. “I don’t want any million-
dollar lawsuit. I wanted to see the Packers beat the Steelers
with my son.”  Just to recap, the NFL in an attempt to set a  Super Bowl 
attendance record added temporary seats inside Cowboys Stadium.
Only the fire marshal deemed them unsafe, leaving about 400 fans
without an assigned seat. The NFL’s solution was to stick the
displaced fans in a field-level club where they could watch on
television.  Even worse, once there, Beiser ordered a vodka tonic for
herself and a Coke for her son. “Not only did my drink come in
a Dixie Cup, but the woman said she had to charge me. It was
$21.”  Let’s contrast the NFL’s behavior with that of Rupp, whose
pre-game routine includes a whirl around the goal and a leap
into the boards as a means of testing how forgiving the glass is
on that particular night.  Beer Bust  Only this time Rupp at the last second noticed a fan had
placed his beer on the lip on the other side of the glass. The
beer didn’t survive.  “Aw, man,” Rupp recalled saying to himself. “I felt
pretty bad.”  Feeling wasn’t enough for Rupp, who learned the value and
necessity of catering to the customer as a 15-year-old working
as a produce clerk in a Cleveland-area supermarket.  Rupp skated to the Penguins bench, where he asked the
trainer to retrieve a puck, a piece of paper, a pen and a $10
bill from his wallet. Rupp wrote, “Here’s for your beer.
Sorry,” on the paper, which he wrapped around the money and
taped to the puck.  The 31-year-old returned to the scene of the spill, tapped
on the glass, got the soggy fan’s attention and tossed the puck
to him. The fan read the note, smiled and offered a two-thumbs-
up response.  Digital Age  The NFL obviously forgot that it’s doing business in a
digital age, when an unhappy customer with only a few clicks of
a computer mouse can tell not only 10 or 100 friends but the
world.  Rupp chuckled at the NFL’s initial response, which was to
offer a refund of up to three times the ticket’s face value and
a trip to next season’s Super Bowl. The league subsequently
sweetened the offer, saying affected fans could choose any Super
Bowl. No after-the-fact tokens of apology can make up for not
treating displaced fans like they mattered on game day.  “The beer probably didn’t mean as much to the fan as the
gesture of my being sincerely sorry,” Rupp said. “If you’re a
father, and you got your kid tickets to the Super Bowl, how do
you explain that one?”  What Rupp understood, and Goodell didn’t, is that memories,
not money, are what matter to die-hard sports fans. Beiser said
she spent $15,000 on what was supposed to be the trip of a
lifetime.  NFL executives, including Goodell, have taken to Twitter
with messages of how much the paying customers matter.  Getting It  And then a league that generates more than $8 billion a
year in revenue thinks nothing of telling its most loyal fans --
the ones who pay ungodly sums and travel for the chance to see
their team win it all -- to watch on TV.  Beiser isn’t familiar with the  Pittsburgh Penguins . And
she’d never heard of Rupp until told of what he did.  “This guy gets it,” she said over the telephone from
Appleton,  Wisconsin . “It gives me hope.”  Hope. Still. Now there’s something for every sports league,
especially the NFL, to think about when it’s time to pick an
MVP.    Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  