-- 
Boehringer Blood Thinner Added to Heart Groups' Cardiac Treatment Guides

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-02-14T19:37:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/boehringer-blood-thinner-added-to-heart-groups-cardiac-treatment-guides.html
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s Pradaxa,
the first drug cleared in the U.S. as an alternative to the
blood thinner warfarin, is now recommended by the  American
College of Cardiology  for patients with an  irregular heartbeat .  Inclusion in treatment guidelines may help expand sales of
Pradaxa, which was approved in the U.S. in October. While
doctors aren’t obligated to follow today’s advice, the opinion
may influence prescriptions, said Craig January, a professor of
medicine and physiology at the  University of Wisconsin-Madison ,
who headed the writing subcommittee for the drug.  “This is actually a very impressive roll-out for a new
drug,” January said today in a telephone interview. Doctors are
just beginning to gain experience with Pradaxa, and some may opt
to wait before prescribing the medicine widely, he said.  The updated treatment guidelines were issued by the
Washington-based cardiologists’ group, the Dallas-based  American
Heart Association  and the Washington-based Heart Rhythm Society,
according to a statement today.  Pradaxa, or dabigatran, is the first new blood thinner to
win Food and Drug Administration approval in a market that  Bayer
AG  estimates may surpass $14 billion in sales. Bayer, based in
Leverkusen, Germany, and  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson
& Johnson  have developed a competing drug called Xarelto.  Demand for Boehringer’s new pill shows there is likely to
be room in the market for experimental rivals such as apixaban,
from  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co . and  Pfizer Inc ., and betrixaban,
from Merck & Co. and Portola Pharmaceuticals Inc., Chris Schott,
a New York-based analyst for JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a
note today to investors.  Warfarin History  Bristol-Myers and Pfizer are based in New York, while
closely held Boehringer has its headquarters in Ingelheim,  Germany . Warfarin has been used as a blood thinner for more than
50 years. Now a generic drug, warfarin also is still sold by
Bristol-Myers as Coumadin.  Doctors have sought an alternative to warfarin that is
safer and doesn’t require blood tests to monitor levels of the
drug. Patients taking warfarin are vulnerable to uncontrollable
bleeding or deadly clots at too high or low a dose.  More than half the cardiologists that Boehringer is
targeting have written at least one prescription for Pradaxa,
said Wa’el Hashad, the company’s vice president of
cardiovascular and metabolic disorders marketing, in a telephone
interview.  “We expect this year to be a significant year of growth,”
Hashad said. He declined to give a sales projection.  Pradaxa and Xarelto, Bayer and J&J’s pill, “will alter
care significantly,” Douglas Zipes, a professor emeritus at the
Indiana University School of Medicine, in Indianapolis, said in
a telephone interview.  “I personally have started switching my patients” to
Pradaxa, Zipes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in  New York  at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  