-- 
World Cup Record Scorer Ronaldo Quits Soccer After Losing Health Battle

-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   J o a o   O l i v e i r a
-- 
2011-02-14T18:45:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/brazil-world-cup-record-holder-ronaldo-announces-retirement-from-soccer.html
Ronaldo, who holds the career record
for World Cup goals, said he’s retiring from soccer because of
health problems.  Ronaldo Luis Nazario played in three World Cups, scoring 15
times, including both goals in the 2-0 victory over  Germany  that
gave  Brazil  the 2002 trophy. The 34-year-old was named the FIFA
World  Player of the Year  in 1996, 1997 and 2002. He announced
his retirement today at a news conference in Sao Paulo.  Ronaldo said he was diagnosed four years ago with
hypothyroidism, which slows metabolism. That’s hurt his play and
caused him to gain weight, he said.  “My career was beautiful,” he told reporters. “It was
wonderful. I had many victories. I made a lot of friends. I have
to accept my defeats and I’ve lost to my body.”  Ronaldo said the pain he’s suffering from soccer-related
injuries made him bring forward his retirement.  “I have pain while climbing the stairs,” he said.  Ronaldo moved from his native country to  PSV Eindhoven  in
the Netherlands after being a non-playing member of Brazil’s
1994 World Cup-winning squad. In 1996 he switched to Barcelona,
where he scored 47 goals in 49 matches, and was sold to Inter
Milan for a then-record $27.6 million transfer fee after one
season.  Leading Scorer  He was named the tournament’s best player at the 1998 World
Cup, where Brazil lost in the final to France, before missing
several seasons with a knee injury. After the 2002 victory in
the global tournament, he joined Real Madrid, winning the 2003
Spanish league title with the “Galacticos” team featuring Luis Figo and Zinedine Zidane.  Ronaldo scored three times at the 2006 World Cup to reach
15 goals, making him the all-time leading scorer. Brazil was
defeated by  France  in the quarterfinals, and he retired from
international soccer, having scored 62 goals in 97 games.  He moved to AC Milan in January 2007, but couldn’t stay
fit, and returned to play for Corinthians in his homeland in
December 2008.  Ronaldo said he will dedicate himself to his sports
marketing company 9ine, which he created with  WPP Plc , and a
foundation he plans to create.  Corinthians financial vice-president Raul Correa da Silva
said Ronaldo’s retirement won’t affect team revenue this year as
the club’s current contracts expire Dec. 31, according to an e-
mailed response to Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Oliveira in  Sao Paulo  at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net ; 