-- 
Berkshire Divests Stakes in Bank of America, Nike

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-02-14T23:19:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/buffett-s-berkshire-hathaway-divests-bank-of-america-stake-filing-shows.html
  Berkshire Hathaway Inc . divested its
stake in Bank of America Corp., the largest U.S. lender by
assets, as Chairman Warren Buffett took control of the portfolio
previously run by his backup stock picker, Lou Simpson.  Buffett’s firm had no shares in the bank at the end of 
2010, compared with 5 million shares three months earlier, Omaha, 
Nebraska- based Berkshire said today in a regulatory filing that 
lists the company’s U.S. stockholdings. Berkshire also eliminated 
its stakes in Nike Inc.,  Comcast Corp ., Nalco Holding Co., Fiserv
Inc., Lowe’s Cos. and Becton, Dickinson & Co.  Buffett, 80, is reshaping Berkshire’s stock portfolio amid
changes in the company’s investment managers. Simpson, once
identified by Buffett as his emergency stand in, retired late
last year. Berkshire, the biggest shareholder of  Coca-Cola Co .
and Wells Fargo & Co., hired former hedge fund manager Todd Combs to help Buffett with equity investments.  “Any position that Buffett was uncomfortable holding on
his own will have been sold in the fourth quarter” as Simpson
left, said David Kass, a professor at the University of
Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of Business.  Berkshire added to its Wells Fargo holding in the fourth
quarter.  Buffett, also Berkshire’s chief executive officer, has
trimmed the stock portfolio since the 2008 financial crisis and
focused on buying whole companies. In the third quarter,
Berkshire eliminated stakes in  Home Depot Inc ., trash hauler  Republic Services Inc . and  Iron Mountain Inc ., a provider of
records management.  Railroad Investment  Buffett acquired Burlington Northern Santa Fe last year for
$26.5 billion to add a railroad to Berkshire’s collection of
more than 70 subsidiaries in industries spanning insurance,
energy and ice cream. In the last two years, the firm has cut
its stockholding of  Moody’s Corp . by more than a third and
divested a stake in SunTrust Banks Inc.  Buffett has said Berkshire will divide his roles as head of
investments and operations among more than one successor. Combs
specialized in financial-services investments at hedge fund
Castle Point Capital Management LLC.  Buffett has said he built his equity portfolio by buying
and holding stocks of companies that he believes have durable
competitive advantages. He’s held the stake in Atlanta-based
Coca-Cola for more than two decades. Berkshire’s stake in San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S. home lender, was
worth more than $8 billion at the end of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 