-- 
Build America Bond Program Would Be Revived Under Obama Spending Proposals

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-02-14T17:16:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/build-america-bond-program-would-be-revived-under-obama-spending-proposals.html
The Build America Bonds program, a
boon to state and local governments that lapsed last year in the
face of Republican opposition in Congress, would be revived
under President Barack Obama’s proposed budget.  The administration, in the $3.7 trillion budget unveiled
today, said it wants to make Build Americas permanent. It would
cut the subsidy the  U.S. Treasury  pays to states and cities so
that the securities cost about the same as the tax break for
buyers of traditional tax-exempts. The proposal also recommends
expanding their use beyond public works to endeavors that can
now be financed in the tax-exempt market.  Republicans last year blocked Democrats’ efforts to extend
the program. Now in control of the U.S. House of
Representatives, they have criticized Build Americas for
encouraging state and local governments to pile on debt while
generating fees for Wall Street underwriters.  The taxable bonds were created under Obama’s economic
stimulus program in 2009 to drive down borrowing costs for
municipalities as banks remained leery of extending credit in
the wake of the financial crisis. The Treasury paid 35 percent
of the interest on the securities, instead of the income-tax
exemption for buyers of traditional municipal bonds. The program
expired on Dec. 31.  ‘Reckless Course’  Reviving the program would “encourage states to continue
on a reckless course of irresponsible spending and further fuel
the unfettered spending agenda of the Obama administration,”
Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican on the Senate
Finance Committee, said in a statement.  State and local governments sold $187 billion of the bonds
as the subsidized interest payments allowed them to borrow more
cheaply than in the tax-exempt market. Build Americas also
diminished the supply of tax-exempt bonds, fueling a rally in
the securities that reversed last year when the taxable
program’s end approached.  There was little immediate reaction in the municipal bond
market, said  Tom Kozlik , municipal credit analyst for the
brokerage Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia.  “The president’s budget is the first step in a long
process that will involve maneuvering, compromise and a dash of
theater,” he said in an e-mail. The market is “watching its
progress closely but will not likely react forcefully until
there is something more substantial to react to,” he said.  Responding to Critics  The president’s proposal seeks to address criticism among
Republicans by reducing the direct subsidy on the bonds to a
“level designed to be approximately revenue-neutral in
comparison to the federal tax losses from traditional tax-exempt
bonds.” It pegs the cost at $28 million from 2012 through 2021.  “Their approach in terms of revenue-neutrality is their
key argument,” Oregon Senator Ron Wyden, a Democrat who has
championed the program, said in an interview.  The lower subsidy would also reduce the incentive for
public officials to use the securities, potentially muting their
impact on the $2.9 trillion municipal  bond market .  Before the program expired, it expanded the market for
state and local government bonds to international investors and
other non-traditional buyers of municipal debt who had no need
for the tax breaks they provide. The failure to extend the
program helped send municipal bonds to their worst quarterly
drop since 1994.  Pelosi Backing  A separate effort to revive the bonds has run into
obstacles. Last week, Democratic Representative Gerald Connolly,
with backing from Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , introduced a
bill to revive Build Americas until 2012, with the federal
subsidy eventually pared to 31 percent.  Republicans blocked the measure from going straight to the
House for a vote, forcing it to go through committees.
Republican House Ways and Means Committee Chairman David Camp of  Michigan  last year criticized Build Americas as a relic of the
“failed stimulus bill” that “subsidized state and local
governments going deeper into debt.”  Wyden, the Oregon senator, said he plans to work to drum up
a bipartisan plan to revive Build America-style bonds. He said
any proposal to expand the program beyond construction projects
to other uses could run afoul of Republicans who want to block
any aid to cash-strapped localities.  “It will obviously be more likely to attract Republicans
if they’re dedicated to keeping their focus on transportation
and infrastructure,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  