-- 
Cable Operators in Europe Eye IPOs, Deals as Digital Homes Ring in Profits

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-02-14T23:05:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/cable-operators-in-europe-eye-ipos-m-a-as-digital-homes-boom.html
Owners of European cable companies
haven’t had it this good for years.  Marred before by debt and losses, European cable operators,
many of whose executives will gather today at  Cable Congress  in
Lucerne,  Switzerland , face an industry set to grow more than 30
percent by 2014 from about 19 billion euros ($25.6 billion) now.
That may spur owners to sell part or all of their holdings or
ride the growth of digitization of European homes, which is
ringing in profits for operators with high-speed technologies.  “This year will be the acid test as to whether they can
monetize those advantages,” said Mark Chapman, an analyst with
researcher CreditSights in  London .  An exploding appetite for high-definition content and
broadband Internet is allowing cable companies with fast triple-
play services -- television, Internet and phones -- to boost
growth, making them attractive investments. Shares of  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG , Germany’s largest cable-TV operator,
have risen 73 percent since investors, led by  Providence Equity
Partners , sold a stake on the stock market in March last year.  In 2010, the European cable industry had revenue of about
18.8 billion euros, up 6 percent from 2009 and 38 percent from
2005, according to data provided by IHS Screen Digest analyst
Guy Bisson. Digital TV subscription revenue more than tripled in
those five years, while Internet revenue nearly doubled. Digital
TV revenue for the first time exceeded that of analogue TV.  “The business model of cable operators has stabilized,”
said Andreas Gentner, head of  Deloitte Consulting GmbH’s 
technology, media and telecommunications practice in Dusseldorf.
“By entering the triple-play business, they are generating huge
operating profits.”  ‘More Attractive’    Spain ’s Grupo Corporativo Ono SA returned to profit in
2009, the latest figure available, after a net loss in 2008 of
26.3 million euros. Operating profit at  Liberty Global Inc .,
controlled by U.S. billionaire  John Malone , rose 8.9 percent in
2009 to 4.75 billion euros, while that of  Kabel Deutschland  rose
16 percent last year to 659.2 million euros from the year ago.  “Cable multiples are becoming more attractive from a
sellers’ perspective, so now you have the possibility of some
relatively significant players coming to market,” Chapman said.  Companies that may come to market this year include Cinven
Ltd. and Warburg Pincus LLC’s Dutch cable operator  Ziggo B.V. ;
EQT Partners AG’s German cable operator Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg
GmbH & Co KG.; The  Carlyle Group  and Providence Equity’s Swedish
cable firm Com Hem AB; and Ono, owned by investors and lenders
including Providence Equity,  GE Capital  and Grupo Santander.  “Piece by piece initial public offerings are definitely
likely to be a consideration and I wouldn’t be surprised to see
three or four players come to market, half of them doing IPOs,
half of them doing trade sales,” Chapman said.  Technology Lead  Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg spokesman Martin Herkommer
declined to comment as did Com Hem spokeswoman Jessica Sjoeberg.  “The only thing one can say about that is an IPO is one of
the possibilities to finance our company in the future,” Ziggo
spokesman Erik van Doeselaar said in an e-mail. “There are no
concrete actions planned and we don’t have a time schedule.”  Ono spokeswoman Estefania Somoza said the company has no
timeline for a sale or a listing on the stock exchange. “We
will do it when market conditions are good,” she said.  Cable operators have benefited from a technology called
 Docsis 3.0 , which allows high-speed data transfer on a cable TV
system and carries download speeds of up to 160 megabits a
second. Phone operators currently offer digital subscriber
lines, or DSL, and very high speed digital subscriber lines, or
VDSL in some areas, with download speeds up to 50 megabits.  ‘Holy Grail’  “Looking into 2011, we are fundamental bulls on the global
cable industry from an operating perspective,” CreditSights
analysts Chris Ucko and Mark Chapman wrote in a report published
Feb. 13. “A relatively small investment in Docsis 3.0 proved to
be the industry’s Holy Grail.”  German cable operators offering superior speeds compared
with  Deutsche Telekom AG , the country’s biggest phone company,
are grabbing about half of all new broadband subscriptions.  “Cable is currently in the sweet spot,” Gentner said.  In its  “Digital Agenda,”  the European Commission calls
for a download speed of 30 megabits per second for all citizens
and above 100 mbps for at least 50 percent of European
households subscribing to internet connections by 2020. Many
cable providers in  Europe  are already at 100 mbps.  At the cable conference, participants are likely to brag
about their technological lead while calling for consolidation
in Europe to gain ground from telecommunications operators.  Stay Ahead  Both Kabel Deutschland and Liberty Global have said they’re
interested in Kabel BW, while Nordic telecom operators may be
interested in Com Hem, according to a report in  Dagens Industri .  In  Germany , attempts to consolidate have failed in the past
because of antitrust concerns. Cable companies argue that their
push into broadband and telephony means that they should be
regulated as telecommunications companies rather than as
television distributors.  “Antitrust authorities have to make a judgment whether
this will lead to diminished competition in the cable sector, or
whether they see the markets of telecommunication and cable as
more or less integrated,” said Gentner.  If it is the latter, the authorities are likely to be less
resistant to a merger between Kabel BW and either Liberty
Global’s Unitymedia in Cologne or Kabel Deutschland, based on
the outskirts of Munich.  Apart from consolidation, it is technology that cable
companies will need to stay ahead, Gentner said.  “When every household is using video on demand, live
stream, doing video chatting at the same time and is running not
one but three high-definition flatscreens in various rooms, we
quickly move out of this 100-megabit area and the cable
operators will lose their competitive advantage,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Ragnhild Kjetland in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Vidya Root at
   vroot@bloomberg.net  