-- 
Cable Sides With BOE `Doves' on Inflation, Calls Rate Increase `Difficult'

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   L i n d a   Y u e h
-- 
2011-02-14T08:53:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/cable-sides-with-boe-doves-on-inflation-calls-rate-increase-difficult-.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
said he shares the analysis of the “doves” on the  Bank of
England ’s Monetary Policy Committee, saying an interest-rate
increase is “potentially very difficult.”  “As an outsider looking in, I take the view of the
doves,” Cable said in a Bloomberg Television interview airing
today. “Although you have inflation, it’s almost entirely
imported. There’s not very much evidence of British inflation
taking place. It’s virtually deflation.”  Cable, a Liberal Democrat member of the Conservative-led
coalition, spoke before January inflation figures that probably
showed consumer prices rising 4 percent, the most since November
2008, according to the median forecast of 30 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The  Office for National Statistics  in  London 
will publish the data at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.  The comments by Cable reflect the risks the government is
taking by enacting the biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II
with inflation holding above the Bank of England’s 2 percent
target for 14 months. Tightening monetary policy to contain
prices could push the country back into recession after the
economy contracted in the final quarter of 2010.  “You would normally expect it to be offset by loose
monetary policy,” Cable said of the government’s plan to narrow
the deficit. Tightening both sides at once was “potentially
very difficult.”  The pound rose as much as 0.4 percent to $1.6078 and was
little changed at $1.6008 as of 8:49 a.m. in London.  The bank left its key interest rate at a record low of 0.5
percent last week and its bond-purchase plan at 200 billion
pounds ($320 billion). Governor  Mervyn King  will present new
quarterly economic forecasts Feb. 16.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said Jan. 10 that King had “a
difficult task” in judging how much inflation was internal and
how much was external. He added that the current level was
“concerning.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Yueh in London at 
 lyueh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  