-- 
Calpers Plans More Investments in Commercial Property

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-02-14T22:14:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/calpers-plans-commercial-property-investments-in-shift-from-higher-risk-.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the largest U.S. public pension, will shift
about half of its real-estate investments into commercial
property from “higher-risk” assets such as housing.  The investment committee of the fund known as Calpers voted
today to change the emphasis to help guard against boom-and-bust
cycles in real-estate markets. Calpers, with assets valued at
about $228 billion last week, lost 11 percent on its property
portfolio in the past fiscal year.  The new real-estate  policy  requires 75 percent of its
holdings to be in so-called core investments such as rental
apartments, industrial parks, offices and retail space. Almost
64 percent of Calpers’s property holdings were in higher-risk
investments such as single-family homes and undeveloped land as
of September 2009, according to the fund’s website.  “We are recognizing the key role of real estate in a
defined-benefit plan,” said Tony Oliveira, vice chairman of the
investment committee. He said that compared with slumps that
affect residential property, declines in commercial real-estate
values tend to be less pronounced. “They’re not busts, they’re
adjustments,” he said at a board meeting in  Sacramento .  The committee’s vote on the issue was unanimous. The full
board doesn’t need to ratify the decision.  Long Transition  Ted Eliopoulos, senior investment officer in the Calpers
real-estate unit, said the system will sell higher-risk assets
while acquiring commercial property and other comparatively
stable investments. The change in allocations is expected to
occur over the next five to seven years.  “There clearly is a shift in the real-estate strategy
which we are presenting to you today, which has the effect of
lowering the risk profile of the portfolio,” Eliopoulos said.  “It’s been a pretty stable net 7 to 8 percent return with
very low volatility,” Eliopoulos said. “It’s a very attractive
asset class for a pension fund.”  Property accounted for $16.6 billion, or 7.3 percent, of
Calpers’s assets as of the end of December, according to the
fund’s website.  The Sacramento-based  pension plan  provides retirement
benefits to about 1.6 million people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  