-- 
Canadian Natural Says Horizon May Resume Operations

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-02-14T23:49:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/canadian-natural-says-horizon-may-resume-operations-update1-.html
  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd . said
it plans to restart two coker drums at its Horizon oil-sands
project in the second quarter, bringing the mine and refinery to
about half of its capacity after being idled by a Jan. 6 fire.  A second set of coker drums will resume operation in the
third quarter, the Calgary-based company said in a statement.
Cold weather at the northeastern Alberta facility has hampered
efforts to access the damaged part of the coker unit.  “Preliminary target time lines at this early stage
indicate that the first set of coke drums, 2A and 2B, are
targeted to resume production in the second quarter of 2011,
enabling onstream production of about half plant capacity, or
55,000 barrels a day of synthetic  crude oil ,” Real Doucet,
senior vice president of the Horizon project, said in a
statement.  The two remaining coke drums, 1A and 1B, are targeted to
restart production in the third quarter. The fire at the
facility was caused by opening the top unheading valve on an
active low-pressure coke drum, the company said. An
investigation into how the incident occurred is expected to be
completed in March.  Production had been shut at the oil-sands mine and
upgrader, 750 kilometers (470 miles) northeast of Calgary, since
a fire at the top of coke drum 1B burned for almost four hours
Jan. 6. Five workers were injured. The workers are making
excellent recoveries and three have returned to work, Canadian
Natural said.    Cash Flow   Canadian Natural has the capacity to absorb any reduced
cash flow from the project and hasn’t changed its  capital budget 
for 2011 as a result of the shutdown, Chief Financial Officer
Doug Proll said in the statement. The company will require
approval from Alberta government regulators to restart the
facility.  The company didn’t give an estimate of the costs of
rebuilding or repairing the damaged components of the plant,
although it said costs aren’t expected to exceed C$250 million
($252.7 million). Canadian Natural earlier said it had $2
billion in insurance to cover damage.  Canadian Natural said it will bring forward maintenance
that was planned for a five-day outage in April and do about 25
percent of the work in a turnaround scheduled for 2012.  The facility’s open-pit mine and upgrader can produce
110,000 barrels of synthetic crude a day. Horizon’s December
production averaged 83,700 barrels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 