-- 
Canada Will Review LSE’s Bid for Toronto Exchange

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-02-14T21:59:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/canada-to-review-lse-s-bid-for-tmx-under-investment-canada-act.html
Canadian Industry Minister Tony Clement said he will review  London Stock Exchange Group Plc ’s
C$3.2 billion ($3.2 billion) bid for TMX Group Inc., owner of
the Toronto Stock Exchange, to determine whether the transaction
is beneficial to the country’s economy.  Clement announced the review under the Investment Canada
Act at a press conference today in Ottawa. The federal
government will look at the transaction’s impact on innovation,
jobs and competitiveness, Clement told reporters.  “We’re going to be reviewing all aspects of this,”
Clement told reporters. Ontario,  Quebec , British Columbia and
Alberta can conduct their own reviews if they wish, he said.  Clement may have had little choice but to review the
transaction after Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan called
the Toronto Stock Exchange a “strategic asset,” said Louis Gagnon, a business professor at Queen’s University in Kingston.
The two companies had billed the transaction as a “merger of
equals” in order to avoid a review, Gagnon said.  “Now that the picture has been muddled a bit, I don’t
think he had any choice,” Gagnon said in a telephone interview.    London  Stock Exchange’s bid comes less than four months
after Clement rejected a hostile takeover of Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. by BHP Billiton Ltd., another transaction that
faced local opposition. That decision raised concerns the
government’s policy on major foreign takeovers has hardened,
according to Mark Nicholson, a lawyer with Cassels Brock &
Blackwell in Toronto.  Foreign Approvals  Up until the Potash takeover, Canada had accepted all but
one takeover reviewed by the government over the past 25 years.
While Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper promised more
clarity on foreign ownership restrictions after the BHP
rejection, the government has delayed new guidelines until
lawmakers in Parliament first make recommendations.  “There is nothing that has cleared up the situation that
explained what it was about Potash that was different from the
others,” Nicholson said.  Canadian law allows the government to reject foreign
takeovers that don’t provide a “net benefit” to the country.  TMX Group Inc . and the London Stock Exchange Group Plc have
“prepared carefully” for the Canadian government’s review of
their proposed merger and have developed “undertakings” that
deliver benefits to the country, the owner of the Toronto Stock
Exchange said in a statement today.  Provincial Reviews  The federal government’s review will be separate from any
others planned by Canadian provinces, Clement said today. The
Ontario and Quebec securities regulators have to approve any
sale of more than 10 percent of the voting shares of TMX Group,
which also runs the Montreal derivatives exchange.  Quebec Finance Minister Raymond Bachand said Feb. 9 the
transaction raises “important issues” for the province, and
that public hearings will be held. His Ontario colleague,
Duncan, called the Toronto Stock Exchange a “strategic asset in
a strategic industry,” according to the Globe and Mail.  LSE shareholders will own 55 percent of the combined
company, while TMX investors will hold the rest, the exchanges
said in a Feb. 9 statement.  A sale to the London exchange would be the largest foreign
takeover of a financial services company in  Canada , where banks
and insurers are protected by ownership limits.  The government has 45 days to complete its review once it
receives a formal proposal from LSE. That review period can be
extended for another 30 days if needed, Clement said.  Canada reviews any foreign takeover worth about C$312
million or more to determine whether it provides a net benefit
to the country in terms of employment, investment, competition
and other factors.  TMX Group declined 86 cents, or 2 percent, to C$41.29 at
the 4 p.m. close of trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the
biggest decline in six months. LSE fell 3 pence to 930 pence in
London.  To contact the reporters on this story;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 