-- 
Chelsea's Premier League Title Defense Fades Further With Draw at Fulham

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-02-15T00:25:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/chelsea-fulham-draw-0-0-in-league-as-dempsey-misses-injury-time-penalty.html
Chelsea slipped 12 points off the
lead in English soccer’s Premier League as  Petr Cech ’s last-
minute penalty save helped the defending champion salvage a 0-0
draw at west  London  rival Fulham.  Goalkeeper Cech saved Clint Dempsey’s spot kick last night
after David Luiz, making his first start since joining Chelsea
last month, was ruled to have tripped the U.S. forward in the
third minute of added time at Craven Cottage in west London.  The result leaves defending champion Chelsea in fifth place
with 45 points, 12 behind leader  Manchester United , which has a
four-point advantage over second-place Arsenal with 12 games
remaining. United and Arsenal both won at the weekend.  “For the title, this point is too little,” Cech told Sky
Sports. “Mathematically it’s not over, but obviously we are
quite far now because they won their games and we lost two
points tonight.”  Cech guessed correctly with his dive to keep out Dempsey’s
penalty kick and deny Fulham -- which stays in 12th place with
31 points -- the chance to secure a fourth straight home win in
the league.  Following a 1-0 home defeat to Liverpool in its last match,
Chelsea left  Didier Drogba  out of its starting lineup as coach  Carlo Ancelotti  played  Fernando Torres  up front ahead of  Nicolas Anelka  and Florent Malouda.  Torres, who joined the Blues from Liverpool on Jan. 31 for
50 million pounds ($80 million), a record fee between U.K.
clubs, wasted chances either side of halftime as Chelsea had 60
percent of the possession.  Torres Substituted  The Spanish striker lost control of the ball after being
put through on goal by Luiz in the first half and headed over
from Ramirez’s cross in the second half. He was replaced by
Drogba with 20 minutes left.  “He has to know our kind of play, I think his performance
for 60 minutes was good,” Ancelotti said of Torres. “He had
two opportunities to score and was not lucky. He was better
compared to his last performance against Liverpool.”  Chelsea’s next league match is March 1 against Manchester
United at Stamford Bridge. The 12-point gap between the teams
may be too much to make up, Ancelotti said.  “It’s very difficult,” he told  Sky Sports . “Obviously we
have to try to do our best, game by game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  