-- 
Chevron's $17 Billion Ecuador Judgment May Be Unenforceable, Analysts Say

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-02-15T19:29:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/chevron-to-appeal-adverse-judgment-in-ecuador-pollution-case.html
  Chevron Corp ., the second-largest
U.S. oil company, may never pay a cent of the award of more than
$18 billion levied by an Ecuadorean court for environmental
damage dating back to the 1960s.  Chevron doesn’t have any refineries, storage terminals,  oil
wells  or other properties in Ecuador that could be seized to
pressure the company to pay, said Mark Gilman, an analyst at
Benchmark Co. in New York. In anticipation of an adverse ruling,
Chevron went to court in  New York  last week to obtain an order
temporarily shielding the company anywhere in the world from
collection efforts related to the case.  The judgment handed down yesterday by a judge in Lago
Agrio, a provincial capital near the Colombian border, ordered
Chevron to pay $8.6 billion and an equal amount in punitive
damages, according to the ruling obtained by Bloomberg. The
judgment stemmed from an 18-year-old lawsuit that alleged Texaco
Inc. dumped chemical-laden wastewater in the Amazon River basin
from 1964 to 1992. Chevron acquired Texaco in 2001.  “It’s probably unenforceable,” Gilman said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “I wouldn’t want to say $8 billion is
insignificant in any way, shape or form for Chevron, because
it’s not, but given the lack of local assets,  Ecuador  is going
to have difficulty enforcing this.”  Luis Yanza, co-founder of the Amazon Defense Front, a group
representing the Ecuadoreans who sued Chevron, said today the
damage award should be higher and the plaintiffs will appeal the
decision. He spoke on a conference call that was held by the
plaintiffs’ lawyers in Spanish and translated into English.  ‘Every Strategy’  If the judgment is upheld after the appeals process in
Ecuador, the plaintiffs will “use every strategy and manner at
our disposal” to enforce the damage award in the U.S. and
elsewhere, Pablo Fajardo, their lead lawyer in Ecuador, said on
the call.  International energy producers have been squeezed by
Ecuadorean President  Rafael Correa ’s push to assert more control
over natural resources, the U.S. Energy Department said in a
 report  on its website. Correa is emulating  Venezuela ’s  Hugo
Chavez  in seeking redress for decades of dominance by foreign  oil companies  that reaped huge profits and paid little in
return, said  William Adams , a portfolio manager at Resilience AG
in Zurich.  ‘Business Case’  “It’s cheaper for Chevron to pay the lawyers than to pay
for the lawsuit,” Adams said today in a telephone interview.
“It’s a simple business case for them.”  The company, based in  San Ramon ,  California , will be
pardoned from paying the punitive damages if it issues a public
apology in major newspapers within 15 days of the court’s
decision, according to the ruling.  The court ordered the company to pay an additional
10 percent of the value of the compensatory damages, or about
$860 million, to the Amazon Defense Front, according to the
ruling. The organization is also the beneficiary of the  trust
fund  that the court wants created to pay the damages.  Kent Robertson, a Chevron spokesman, said the company will
appeal the judgment. Chevron attorneys were still poring over
the document late yesterday to calculate the amount of damages
imposed by the judge, he said.  ‘Product of Fraud’  “One thing we do know is that this ruling was the product
of fraud and is contrary to the legitimate scientific
evidence,” Robertson said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Chevron had $17.1 billion in cash and near-cash equivalents
at the end of December, according to a Jan. 28 statement. The
company’s $195 billion market valuation is more than three times
the size of Ecuador’s annual economic output.  Ecuador pumped an average of 470,000 barrels of crude a day
last year, the lowest production among Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries members, International Energy Agency figures
showed. Crude accounts for about 50 percent of the nation’s
export earnings, according the U.S. Energy Department.  Ecuador ranked 127th out of 178 nations in  Transparency
International ’s 2010  corruption-perception index . Ethiopia,
Indonesia and  Armenia  were perceived as less corrupt, according
to the index.  The ruling held Chevron responsible for water and soil
contamination that a court-ordered assessment estimated caused
Amazon residents $27 billion in damages from illness, deaths and
economic loss.  PetroEcuador Release  Chevron argued that it cleaned up its portion of the  oil
fields  and was released from pollution claims in an agreement
with Ecuador and state-owned oil company PetroEcuador, which
took control of the Texaco operations in 1992.  “The case really sends a message that companies operating
in the undeveloped world cannot rely on a compliant government
or lax environmental rules as a way of permanently insulating
themselves from liability,” said Robert Percival, a law
professor and director of the environmental law program at the  University of Maryland  School of Law in Baltimore.  The ruling may have prompted concern among some investors
yesterday and served as a drag on Chevron’s stock price, Gilman
said. Chevron’s 1.3 percent increase lagged behind peer
companies such as ConocoPhillips and  Exxon Mobil Corp ., which
rose 3.1 percent and 2.5 percent, respectively.  Shares Underperform  “There was some degree of underperformance,” said Gilman,
who has a “buy” rating on Chevron shares.  Chevron rose 33 percent in the past year. The stock has 18
buy ratings and seven holds.  The judgment ranks second in environmental damage cases
behind the $20 billion Gulf Coast Claims Facility, a settlement
fund set up for BP Plc’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill, said
Percival.  “Today’s judgment affirms what the plaintiffs have
contended for the past 18 years about Chevron’s intentional and
unlawful contamination of Ecuador’s rainforest,” Fajardo said
in an e-mailed statement.  Chevron accused the Ecuadorean government of unfairly
influencing the court proceedings and alleged that a
$27 billion damage assessment provided by a court-appointed
expert was ghostwritten by consultants and lawyers hired by the
plaintiffs.  Documentary Film  The company won U.S. court orders last year that forced
attorneys and consultants for the Ecuadoreans to answer
questions under oath about the case and gave Chevron access to
outtakes of a documentary film about the lawsuit.  Chevron in February filed a racketeering lawsuit against
the lawyers and the plaintiffs in federal court in  Manhattan  for
“leading a fraudulent litigation and  PR campaign  against the
company.” The company filed a claim in 2009 against Ecuador in
the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague seeking orders
that it has no liability for the environmental pollution and
PetroEcuador should pay the damage award.  The case is Maria Aguinda v Chevron, 002-2003, Superior
Court of Nueva Loja, Lago Agrio, Ecuador.  Exxon Mobil, based in Irving,  Texas , is the biggest U.S.
oil company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 