-- 
China Milk Imports Forecast Strong, Dairy Group Says

-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 
2011-02-14T05:51:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/china-milk-imports-forecast-strong-dairy-group-says-update1-.html
  China ’s whole milk powder imports
are likely to “remain strong” this year, after surging in
2010, helping to underpin global prices, Dairy  Australia  said.  Domestic dairy production in China was struggling to keep
pace with demand growth and there was a preference for imported
product that’s considered safer, Joanne Bills, strategy and
knowledge manager at the Melbourne-based industry group, said.  Whole milk powder prices rose to an eight-month high this
month, according to auction results published Feb. 2 by Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy exporter. New
Zealand is the biggest supplier to China, where economic growth
and rising incomes are boosting consumption of agricultural
commodities including dairy products.  “That sort of demand, even though we are not servicing it
directly, does keep the international market in tight balance,”
Bills said by phone after the group released a report on the
industry outlook today. Australia, the second-largest dairy
exporter after  New Zealand , ships infant milk formula to China.  Average milk powder prices for delivery in April rose to
$3,794 a metric ton, according to the results published earlier
this month from Auckland-based Fonterra’s  GlobalDairyTrade 
auction. Prices have risen 13 percent since Dec. 1.  Buyer Resistance  “Global market prices are firming, driven by steady global
demand and limited global supplies,” Dairy Australia said.
“However prices are approaching buyer resistance levels.”  China’s imports of whole milk powder increased to 414,000
tons last year, up 68 percent on 2009, Dairy Australia said,
citing data from China’s customs authority.  Milk powder produced in China has previously been found
tainted with melamine, a toxic chemical, killing at least six
infants in the country in 2008.  “In other key markets in  Asia  we’re also expecting import
demand to be fairly strong given that internal production is
down and they need to import more product just to maintain
consumption,” Bills said.  Australia may produce 9 billion to 9.1 billion liters of
milk in 2010-2011, Dairy Australia forecast, down from a
September outlook of 9.1 billion to 9.2 billion liters and
little changed from 9 billion liters a year earlier. Limited
cattle supply may curb expansion next year even after improved
conditions in some regions because of rain, Bills said.  Cuts to milk prices by Australian supermarket operators
were a “disappointing signal given the strength of the
international market,” Bills said. Drinking milk sales through
Australian supermarkets account for around 13 percent of
national output, according to the industry group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Poole  at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 