-- 
China Reports Smaller-Than-Forecast Trade Surplus as Imports Increase 51%

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-14T05:39:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/china-reports-smalller-than-forecast-trade-surplus-as-imports-increase-51-.html
  China  reported a smaller-than-
forecast trade surplus of about $6.5 billion in January as
a rebounding economy and rising commodity costs helped drive
a 51 percent gain in imports.  The gap, the smallest in nine months, was less than the
$11.3 billion median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists and a $13 billion excess in December. Exports rose
38 percent from a year earlier, the customs bureau said on its
website today. January data is distorted by the timing of
Chinese New Year.  A smaller surplus may not ease tensions over the value of
the nation’s currency after China was confirmed today to have
overtaken Japan as the world’s second-biggest economy. Finance
chiefs from the Group of 20 nations are likely to discuss the
yuan’s value in Paris this week, U.S. lawmakers are
reintroducing legislation targeting China, and Brazil may
discuss its concerns with President  Barack Obama  next month.  China “will return to large monthly trade surpluses in the
coming months,” said Liu Li-gang, an economist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group in Hong Kong, adding that January’s
pace of import growth can’t be sustained.  Japan’s government said today that China became the world’s
No. 2 economy in 2010.  Holiday Distortions  The yuan traded little changed at 6.5948 per dollar as of
1:28 p.m. in Shanghai. The  Shanghai  Composite Index climbed 2
percent amid speculation that the government may tomorrow
announce a slower-than-forecast inflation rate for January.  Consumer prices may have climbed 4.9 percent, Central China
Securities Co. said in Shanghai today, citing speculation.
Deutsche Bank AG economist  Ma Jun  said any such slowdown may
only reflect a reweighting of the nation’s price index away from
food.  The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists was for inflation to jump to a 30-month high of 5.4
percent.  Trade data from China, the world’s biggest exporter, is
difficult to interpret in the first two months due to
distortions caused by the timing of the Lunar New Year holiday.
The week-long break started on Feb. 2 this year, almost two
weeks earlier than last year. The value of exports was $150.7
billion and imports were $144.3 billion.  “There has been a concentrated rush of imports and exports
before the holiday, resulting in rapid growth in January’s
foreign trade,” the customs bureau said in a statement.  Rising Import Prices  Rising prices also boosted the value of imports, with the
average cost of shipments of  iron ore  surging 66 percent from a
year earlier, the bureau said.  “A more reliable gauge of China’s import momentum and
global trade may have to wait till March,” said  Li Wei , a
Shanghai-based economist with Standard Chartered Plc.  The growth in exports was higher than all 22 economists’
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey and compared with the
median estimate of 23 percent. The gain in imports, the biggest
in 10 months, compared with the 27 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  A customs bureau statement put the trade surplus at $6.45
billion, while a table released by the same organization said
$6.46 billion.  While the  U.S. Treasury  refrained this month from labeling
China a currency manipulator, the Obama administration isn’t
satisfied with the yuan’s gains and is seeking to address the
“remaining substantial undervaluation,”  Lael Brainard , the
Treasury Department’s undersecretary for international affairs,
said in  Washington  on Feb. 10.  U.S. Legislation  U.S. lawmakers the same day introduced legislation aimed at
pushing China to let its currency strengthen faster. A bill
passed by the  House of Representatives  last year that would
allow U.S. companies to petition for duties on imports from
China to compensate for the effect of a weak yuan died when the
Senate didn’t vote before the end of the year.    Brazil  will discuss the threat from cheap Chinese imports
when Obama visits next month, a Brazilian official said this
month.  The yuan has gained about 3.5 percent against the dollar
since June, when the central bank scrapped a peg to the U.S.
currency, in place during the global financial crisis.  The Chinese currency’s real rate against the dollar is
rising at an annual rate of 10 to 12 percent, boosted by
accelerating inflation in China, Fred Bergsten, director of the
Peterson Institute for International Economics,  wrote  on the
organization’s website on Feb. 8.  Bernanke’s Argument  The currency will appreciate to 6.29 per dollar by the end
of 2011, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers on
Feb. 9 that allowing the yuan to strengthen would be a better
way of helping China’s policy makers control inflation than
raising  interest rates  to curb demand.  China raised borrowing costs and savings rates on Feb. 8
for the third time since mid-October ahead of a government
report tomorrow forecast to show consumer prices jumped 5.4
percent in January, the most in 30 months.  The trade surplus shrank to $183 billion in 2010, dropping
for the second straight year from a record $295 billion in 2008.
The gap will continue to narrow this year as the nation expands
imports, Ministry of Commerce spokesman Yao Jian said last month.  China’s export growth may cool this year to 18 percent from
31 percent last year, according to Moody’s Economy.com.  “A moderate recovery in the U.S. and continued sovereign
debt strains in  Europe  mean that exports are not likely to
repeat their 2010 performance,”  Alaistair Chan, a Sydney-based
economist for Moody’s Economy.com, wrote in a Feb.9 report.
“Further yuan appreciation this year will hamper Chinese
exports and result in slower export and GDP growth.”  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Li Yanping, Huang Zhe and
Sonja Cheung in Beijing.  Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  