-- 
China’s Railway Minister Under Investigation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-14T02:41:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/china-s-railway-minister-under-investigation-correct-.html
(Corrects name in second paragraph in a story
published Feb. 13.)    China ’s Railways Minister Liu
Zhijun is under investigation for “severe” disciplinary
violations, the official Xinhua News Agency said, citing
the Communist Party’s discipline watchdog bodies.  Liu is accused of abusing his position and receiving
“a large amount of money” in bribes, Xinhua said late
yesterday, citing the Central Commission for Discipline
Inspection and the Ministry of Supervision.  Liu has been China’s railway minister since 2003, and
led China’s investment boom in the industry. China is
undertaking an investment program to build a faster and
bigger railway network and plans to spend 800 billion yuan
($121 billion) in the coming years on high-speed rail
projects.  Liu, 58, was removed from his post as communist party
chief at the ministry and replaced by Sheng Guangzu, 62,
the head of customs administration, Xinhua said.  Liu has become the latest senior official to be
investigated as part of China’s battle against corruption,
Xinhua said.  About a month ago, Zhang Jingli, former deputy
director of the State Food and Drug Administration, was
removed from the post and expelled from the party for
serious violations, the news agency said.  A total of 146,517 officials across China were
punished for disciplinary violations in 2010, according to
the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, Xinhua
said.  Among the officials, 5,098 had leadership posts at the
county level or above and 804 were prosecuted, the report
said.  --Xiao Yu and Dick Schumacher. Editors: Paul Tighe, Joe
Schneider  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  