-- 
China Rail Stocks Fall on Minister Investigation; Air, Road Shares Rally

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-14T03:54:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/china-rail-stocks-fall-on-minister-investigation-air-road-shares-rally.html
China rail-related stocks fell after
Xinhua News Agency said Railways Minister Liu Zhijun is under
investigation for “severe” disciplinary violations. Airlines and
expressway operators surged.  Liu is accused of abusing his position and receiving “a
large amount of money” in bribes, the official Xinhua agency
said Feb. 12, citing the Central Commission for Discipline
Inspection and the Ministry of Supervision. An official from the
Railways Ministry’s international cooperation department, who
gave her surname as Yang, declined to comment.  “The investigation has created doubt among investors about
the investment boom on high-speed rail, given the huge amount of
spending,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Airlines and toll-road operators
would benefit from any reduction in rail spending because the
market has been worried about the threat of high-speed railways
to their passenger volumes.”  CSR Corp., the nation’s biggest train maker, tumbled 4.8
percent at 11:36 a.m. in Hong Kong trading. China CNR Corp., the
second largest, dropped 0.7 percent at the 11:30 a.m. trading
break in Shanghai.  Anhui Expressway Co . and Shenzhen Expressway
Co. both gained by the 10 percent daily limit in Shanghai, while  Air China Ltd . rallied 3.5 percent.  The minister, who has held the post since 2003, has
overseen plans to build a 16,000-kilometer high-speed passenger
 network  by 2020. The country’s planned 2 trillion yuan ($300
billion) in spending will give it almost as much track by next
year as the entire rest of the world, even before the network is
completed.  Liu, 58, was also removed from his post as communist party
chief, according to the report.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from Tian Ying in Beijing.
Editor: Richard Frost, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai  at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  