-- 
China Profits From Solar Policy as Europe Backpedals

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-14T12:29:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/china-profits-from-solar-power-strategy-as-europe-backpedals-on-subsidies.html
  China , the world’s biggest
electricity consumer, is figuring out how to capture a larger
share of the solar-energy market without losing money.  The government will spend at least a year studying Europe’s
system of paying above-market prices for solar power before
deciding if there’s a better way to spur clean-energy plants
across China, said Wu Dacheng, an adviser to national power
regulators. The delay has stalled projects planned on Chinese
soil by developers such as  First Solar Inc . of the U.S.  “We need to learn from European countries like Germany”
that pay subsidized rates to spark solar-panel installations,
Wu, vice chairman of the Solar Photovoltaic Committee of China’s
Renewable Energy Society, said in an interview.  Europe, which attracted more than $65 billion in solar
plant investment in 2010, is providing lessons for China.  Germany , the largest panel market, together with  Spain  and
France carried out four unscheduled subsidy cuts in 2010, trying
to slow a torrent of projects by developers and speculators.  China’s wait-and-see strategy on projects is part of a
broader industrial plan to take a leading global role in
harnessing energy from the sun. China is first focusing state
support on its own equipment manufacturers. That helps them gain
market share and cut prices, lowering the eventual cost of a
nationwide solar construction program China plans for itself.  “China is definitely playing a longer game in solar,”
Daniel Guttmann, head of renewable energy strategy at the
consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in  London , said by
telephone. “It has done a lot to subsidize its manufacturers.”  Polysilicon to Panels  The government’s  China Development Bank  alone approved more
than 126 billion yuan ($19 billion) in credit facilities in the
second half of last year for makers of everything from the raw
material of polysilicon to the finished solar panel, including
Baoding-based Yingli Green Energy Holding Co., according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  China this year will increase its share of the global solar
photovoltaic panel market by about 10 percentage points and for
the first time supply a majority of the devices that turn
sunlight into power, according to London-based Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. In contrast, China bought less than 3 percent of
the 18.5 gigawatts in estimated worldwide panel sales last year
for its domestic projects.  Chinese manufacturers outperformed most U.S. and European
competitors in stock markets in the 12 months through Feb. 11.
The top three, led by LDK Solar Co., gained about 65 percent on
average in the period, compared with 58 percent for the top
three based in the U.S. and 8.8 percent for the Europeans.  U.S. Incentives  In the U.S., solar project developers have relied on a
different incentive system. They may earn a federal investment
tax credit that pays for as much as a third of the initial cost,
as well as renewable energy mandates in 29 states that require
utilities to buy an increasing portion of their power supplies
from solar and wind plants.  The incentives are less than in many European countries,
where U.S. manufacturers make most of their sales.  As panel prices drop, China plans to boost its own solar
power installations by more than 60-fold to 20 gigawatts, or the
equivalent of about 18 new nuclear plants, by 2020 from 2009. A
nationwide subsidy or auction program is needed, though not a
direct copy of the European or U.S. model, which is based on tax
breaks, Wu said.  China is concerned that  Europe ’s subsidized rates, or feed-
in tariffs, were so large that governments had to slash them
earlier than planned to not strain government finances, Wu said.
Spain alone spent 5.3 billion euros ($7.3 billion) subsidizing
renewable power generation last year.  ‘Bubbles, Super-profits’  “China has seen that many European countries did not quite
get the right feed-in tariff levels, with bubbles and super-
profits for investors in some cases, and might want to give
careful thought to set the right levels,” Guttman said.  European nations are trimming subsidies and studying limits
on permits. The moves respond to a plunge in solar panel prices
and are aimed at keeping plant operators from earning too much
at the expense of consumers who must pay the above-market rates.  Germany has reduced incentives four times since January
2009 and  France  lowered rates twice last year and imposed a
three-month freeze on projects in December after receiving as
many as 3,000 applications a day from developers.  In China, several demonstration projects weren’t developed
because companies were deterred by the absence of a subsidized
power purchase price, Wu said in the interview last month.  Arizona’s First Solar  Arizona-based First Solar, the largest maker of thin-film
solar modules, agreed in 2009 to set up a 2,000-megawatt plant
in China, billed as the world’s biggest. On Jan. 5, it settled
instead for a 30-megawatt plant in  Ordos  and to take state-owned
China Guangdong Nuclear Solar Energy Development Co. as a
partner. First Solar said it may expand the project in stages
until it reaches the original size proposed.  China began offering subsidies in 2009 to a limited number
of solar power projects using bidding rounds. However, in
November the government canceled 39 solar projects under the
program, known as Golden Sun, citing “inability to implement.”
State-owned Huanghe Hydropower Development Co. also canceled a
5-megawatt project in Geermu,  Qinghai province .  A second round of bids for 280 megawatts in solar
concessions was held on Aug. 10 and a third one for 500
megawatts is due this year.  China’s regulator, the National Energy Administration,
hasn’t started studying the solar premium prices yet, said Ren
Dongming, deputy director of the Centre for Renewable Energy
Development. The Centre, which is administered by the National
Development and Reform Commission, had previously participated
in drafting wind-energy prices.  China is currently applying the model used to determine
wind tariffs for solar projects. The country has issued six
national tenders for wind projects to set different levels of
tariffs depending on wind resource levels.  “China may follow a pricing model for solar projects that
is similar to how wind projects are paid,” said Na An, a New
Energy Finance analyst.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 