-- 
Citigroup Plans to Hire 20 Bankers for European Team

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-02-14T09:55:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/citigroup-plans-to-hire-20-additional-bankers-to-rebuild-its-european-team.html
  Citigroup Inc ., the third-largest  U.S. bank , plans to hire as many as 20 senior corporate and
investment bankers in Europe in the first-half of 2011 as it
rebuilds a team weakened by departures.  The lender will add managing directors and executive
directors in London as well as bankers in Russia,  Turkey  and the
Middle East, Manuel Falco and James Bardrick, Citigroup’s joint
heads of banking in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, said in
an interview. The New York-based firm has about 1,000 investment
and corporate bankers in Europe, the Middle East and  Africa .  “We are clearly looking for talent,” Falco, 46, said in
the interview at the firm’s  Canary Wharf  office in  London . “We
are going to hire a lot more in countries and regions where
activity is likely to grow quickly, including Russia, Turkey and
the Middle East.”  Citigroup, overseen by Vikram Pandit, 54, is overhauling
its investment bank after revenue at the division declined and
it suffered a series of departures over the past two years.
James Forese, co-head of global markets, became chief executive
officer of securities and banking last month. The bank, which
received a $45 billion taxpayer rescue in late 2008 when it
nearly collapsed, repaid the last of its bailout last year.  “Our balance sheet has been recapitalized, and we are in a
position to deploy capital to our core clients to support their
businesses and growth,” said Bardrick, 48. The “banking
business is now in the best position it’s been in for years.”  Employee Turnover  The firm is among three working on this year’s $10 billion
initial public offering of  Switzerland ’s Glencore International
AG, the world’s largest commodities trader, people familiar with
the matter said last month. Tom Reid and Auke Leenstra are
leading Citigroup’s team on the IPO. Citigroup also advised
General Electric Co. on its $2.8 billion purchase of the well-
support unit of the U.K.’s John Wood Group Plc yesterday.  Citigroup “had two or more difficult years that have
caused it to lose league table positions across the board,”
said Philip Keevil, partner at Compass Advisers LLC and a former
head of European mergers at Citigroup. “It has also experienced
a great deal of turnover in corporate finance and corporate
banking.”  The departures started in 2009 in Europe when  Barclays
Capital  hired Citigroup executives in London, including Thomas King, head of banking for  Europe , Middle East and Africa, as
well as mergers bankers Matthew Ponsonby and Jim Peterkin.
Automotives banker Reid Marsh and financial institutions banker
Thomas Demeure were also among those leaving in 2010. Julian Mylchreest, former co-head of the energy banking team, moved to
Bank of America Corp. in July.  Vimpelcom Purchase  Citigroup, which was the second-placed adviser on European
mergers in 2009, fell to sixth in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It trailed its U.S. competitors Morgan
Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  In the fourth quarter, the bank rose to eighth in M&A
rankings, from 12th in the previous three months, helped by its
role in advising Russian telecommunications provider VimpelCom
Ltd. on its purchase of Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA in October.
The firm is also advising on sales of government state assets in
Turkey, including gas provider Istanbul Gaz Dagitim AS.  “There is strong evidence that the tide is turning,” said
Keevil. “Citigroup remains strong in syndicated lending, which
is critical in this credit-sensitive environment. It’s made some
good decisions in promoting the right people and stabilizing the
ship.”  Costly Moscow  The firm has started replacing senior bankers across some
industries in Europe. It hired former  UBS AG  adviser Steve Conway to head its team advising private equity firms. Former
HSBC Holdings Plc banker Charles-Henri Filippi also joined as
chairman of Citigroup’s French unit in November.  The bank is also planning to expand in Russia, which it
acknowledges may be costly.  “Russia is one of the hottest markets in the world in
terms of cost,” said Citigroup’s Falco. “If you want to hire
and if you want to hire a top quality managing director, that’s
going to cost you, so you need to make sure that an enlarged
team can really deliver for clients.”  Hiring in cities such as Moscow could cost securities firms
$1.8 million to $3 million for a sales trader at the managing
director level, according to  Jason Kennedy , chief executive
officer of Kennedy Group, a London-based recruiter. That
compares to about $1.3 million to $2 million in London, he said.  Transactions involving companies from the so-called BRIC
countries --  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China  -- climbed almost
80 percent last year and accounted for a record 22 percent of
the $2.23 trillion of global takeovers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Acquirers from BRIC nations announced
$402 billion of takeovers, up 74 percent from 2009 and more than
quadruple the level of five years ago, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  