-- 
Clinton Urges Egypt to Lift Emergency Law, Focus Ahead

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-02-15T01:10:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/clinton-urges-egypt-to-lift-emergency-law-focus-on-work-ahead.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
urged  Egypt ’s military to lift the country’s emergency decree,
which suspends constitutional rights and circumscribes political
activity outside the government.  “One of the demands which we have supported for a long
time is to lift the emergency decree,” Clinton said in an
interview today with Al  Jazeera  television. “There has been an
announcement that will be done and we hope that it will be.”  In a second interview with a Middle Eastern network,  Al
Hurra  television, which is financed by the U.S. government,
Clinton repeated her call to rulers in the region to open their
economies and allow greater political freedoms.  “With our friends, we have a very consistent message:
There has to be change,” Clinton said. “It is still very
possible, in fact desirable, for that change to proceed in an
orderly way, a peaceful way, but it has to produce results,
particularly for young people.”  Asked about Syrian President Bashar Assad’s promises of
political reform, she said “a commitment in word only won’t
produce the changes that people are looking for.”  “So I hope that what he has said will be followed up on,”
Clinton said.   Lebanon Tribunal  The top U.S. diplomat also reiterated the U.S. commitment
to the independent tribunal investigating the assassination of
former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri. The tribunal’s
initial work pointed to Syria as responsible for the killing.  Syria  has repeatedly denied the accusation.  On  Al Jazeera , Clinton praised the Egyptian military as
“absolutely essential” since street protests broke out Jan. 25
in Cairo’s Tahrir Square. She also cautioned that focused effort
would be needed after the euphoria of President  Hosni Mubarak ’s
resignation and the installation of a military council to run
affairs until elections in September.  “You have to rewrite a constitution, you have to pass new
laws, you have to help form political parties, there is a long
‘to do’ list and everybody needs to be sort of focused on the
task at hand,” Clinton said. “That’s going to take an enormous
amount of energy from everybody involved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  