-- 
Coffee to Remain ‘Very Tight’ as Stockpiles Stay Low

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-02-14T20:55:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/coffee-to-remain-very-tight-as-stockpiles-hold-at-40-year-low.html
Global coffee supplies will likely
be “tight” through the rest of the year as stockpiles held by
exporting nations such as Colombia stay near a 40-year low,
according to the head of the  International Coffee Organization .  Stockpiles of the bean are set to hold or rise “a little”
from about 13 million bags, the lowest level since the  ICO  began
keeping records in the 1960s, ICO Executive Director Jose Sette
said in a Feb. 11 telephone interview from  London . Consumption
may rise this year from about 131 million bags in 2010, he said.  “There is simply not enough coffee in the world,” Sette
said. There are “very sound fundamental reasons for coffee
being high,” he said.  Coffee futures rallied 95 percent in the past 12 months in  New York , the third-best performance among 22 commodities
tracked by the Bloomberg CRR Futures List. Prices have surged on
speculation supply won’t be enough to meet demand, as countries
such as  Brazil  struggle to maintain output at last year’s level.  Coffee extended a rally to the highest since June 1997
after his comments. Arabica coffee for May delivery advanced
6.75 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $2.617 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York. Earlier, the price reached $2.6225,
the highest for a most-active contract since June 1997.  A sustained recovery in production in Colombia will depend
on whether rainfall last year delayed the mitaca, as the Andean
nation’s April-May harvest is known, Sette said.  Rising Production  There are signs of a recovery. In January, production in
Colombia climbed to 908,000 bags from 515,000 bags a year
earlier.  Colombia  is the world’s largest producer after Brazil
of arabica, used for specialty coffee.  “People are worried about the mitaca crop,” Sette said.
“We have to wait and see if this recovery will extend” itself.  Importers worldwide hold about 20 million bags, or about
three months of consumption, he said. Inventories in exporting
nations have declined to “negligible” levels from between 40
million and 50 million bags a decade ago, Sette said.  “It’s what you need to get by -- your working stocks,” he
said.  Output in Indonesia is set to decline this season because
of adverse weather, before a likely recovery next season, Sette
said.  Indonesia  is the world’s third-largest coffee producer
after Brazil and  Vietnam .  ‘Bullish Market’  There is a lack of “high-quality” arabica beans from
Brazil at a time when crop disease in Colombia may hamper a
production recovery, said Mu Li, a commodity analyst at CPM
Group in New York. Global demand also is gaining, partly as
consumers in producing nations such as Brazil drink more coffee,
she said.  “It’s generally a very bullish market,” she said in a
telephone interview from New York.  In Colombia, last year’s output of 8.9 million bags fell
short of the 9.5 million bags forecast by Colombia’s National
Federation of Coffee Growers, as above-average rainfall and
disease curbed production of arabica beans. Exports slid in 2010
by 78,000 bags to 7.82 million bags.  Coffee growing regions in Colombia’s Andes mountains may
have above-average rainfall this month because of the La Nina
weather event, and there may be heavier precipitation in the
Andes after mid-March, the state-run Institute of Hydrology,
Meteorology and Environmental Studies said on Feb. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  