-- 
Colombia Bank May Boost Rate If CPI Expectations Climb

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-02-14T16:38:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/colombia-bank-may-boost-rate-if-cpi-expectations-climb-update1-.html
Colombian policy makers said they
may raise the country’s benchmark rate if inflation expectations
rise above the target, according to  minutes  of the central
bank’s Jan. 31 meeting published today.  If  Colombia ’s economy continues to grow, or inflation
expectations deviate from the bank’s target, the central bank
would gradually remove monetary stimulus, the minutes said.
Policy makers, who expect inflation this year between 2 percent
and 4 percent, kept the benchmark interest rate at a record low
3 percent for a ninth straight meeting last month.  “The board analyzed the conditions in which, given the
probable scenarios in the months ahead, it might be necessary to
change the stance of the bank’s monetary policy by making it
less expansive,” the bank said.  Inflation expectations have risen because of supply
disruptions caused by rains last year that were the heaviest in
three decades, the bank said. Inflation will likely end 2011 at
3.61 percent, according to 42 economists in a central bank
 survey . Consumer prices rose 3.4 percent in January from a year
ago, while monthly prices rose 0.91 percent.  Inflation, which ended 2010 at 3.17 percent, faster than
economists’ expectations, may end both 2011 and 2012 at less
than 3 percent, Central Bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said Feb. 4.  Colombia’s economy may have expanded about 4 percent last
year, less than previously anticipated, and may grow 4.5 percent
in 2011, Uribe said. Spending to repair infrastructure damaged
by flooding will cause growth in the $231 billion economy to
pick up in the second half of this year, he said.  The board, in deciding to maintain the overnight rate at
its current level, said  core inflation  remains at “low” levels
and the recent increase in food prices may be “temporary.” The
fallout from  Europe ’s debt crisis, and uncertainty over
economists’ estimates for inflation and economic growth,
underscore the need to leave borrowing costs unchanged, the bank
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  