-- 
Connecticut Asks Facebook About Anti-Fraud Controls

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-02-14T23:58:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/connecticut-asks-facebook-about-anti-fraud-controls-update1-.html
  Connecticut  asked Facebook Inc. how
it detects and disables fraudulent accounts as part of a probe
into claims that a state legislator’s identity was misused in a
scam that solicited people for money.  The lawmaker, Representative Kim Rose, a Democrat, said in
a telephone interview today that someone had created a Facebook
page using her name and photograph without her permission and
then requested money from her “friends.” She said she tried
dozens of times to report the fraud to the company.  Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen said in an e-
mailed statement that he wrote a letter to the closely held  Palo
Alto , California-based company asking how many complaints it
received in the last 18 months about fraudulent or “hacked”
accounts, how it responded and what safeguards were in place to
detect or disable fake or “hacked” Facebook accounts. The
company was asked to provide the information by Feb. 22.  “My hope is to work cooperatively with Facebook to ensure
that its users in Connecticut and elsewhere are provided
adequate security and receive quick and effective responses when
security breaches occur,” Jepsen said in the statement.  Rose said someone created a page using her name and began
“friending” her “friends.” The person told her “friends”
she put them in for a poverty grant and, if they sent $650, that
would cover the taxes. She said one acquaintance fell for the
scam.  She said the only way to contact Facebook was to go on the
fraudulent page and report it as such. She said she’s
investigating how to make Facebook accountable after it failed
to respond to her complaints.  ‘60 Times’  “I must have reported it 60 times,” Rose said.  Simon Axten, a spokesman for Facebook, the most popular
social network, said the company takes security seriously and
works to protect people from scams.  “This includes developing complex technical systems to
flag and block suspicious behavior, including the creation of
phony accounts, providing easy reporting channels for people to
let us know when something is wrong, and educating people on how
to protect themselves through our Facebook Security Page and
concerted campaigns,” he said in an e-mail. “We’re always
working to improve our systems and processes to better support
the over 500 million people who use Facebook.”  -0-Editors: Peter Blumberg, Glenn Holdcraft  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in  New York  at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   Jpickering@bloomberg.net  