-- 
Copper Imports by China Climb 5.7% on Stockpiling

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-14T06:52:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/copper-imports-by-china-rebound-on-stockpiling-before-a-ramp-up-in-output.html
Copper imports by  China , the world’s
largest consumer, rebounded 5.7 percent in January from the
previous month as fabricators increased stockpiles ahead of a
seasonal ramp up in production after the Lunar New Year break.  Inbound shipments of copper and its products were 364,240
metric tons last month, according to a  statement  on the customs
agency website today. That represents a 25 percent jump from the
same time last year, it said. Imports dropped 2 percent in
December from November.  Copper reached a record $10,160 a ton on Feb. 7 on concern
supplies may lag behind demand this year. Stockpiles in  Shanghai 
reached an eight-month high last week. March to May is usually
peak production season in China, according to Wu Tianmin,
analyst at BOC International (China) Ltd.  “There was very little stockpiling activity among
fabricators at the end of last year,” Liang Lijuan, an analyst
at Cofco Futures Co., said from Beijing. “As they ramp up
production after the Lunar New Year, they don’t have much choice
except to re-stock.” The nations financial markets were closed
for the holiday from Feb. 2 to Feb. 8.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., the world’s largest
publicly traded producer, said last week that the constrained
supplies that drove prices to a record will persist for the
“foreseeable future.”  Chinese copper imports also gained as arbitrage activity
returned in late January, BOC’s Wu said. Arbitrage traders and
importers profit by buying metal in  London  and selling it in
Shanghai, exploiting the gap in prices. The trade had been
mostly unprofitable since July, according to Bloomberg data.  Price Gains  Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange gained 0.7
percent to $10,035 by 2:17 p.m. in Shanghai. It gained 30
percent in 2010. Stockpiles at the Shanghai Futures Exchange
warehouses expanded to the highest level since June, adding
9,899 tons to 144,197 tons last week, according to the bourse.  Global demand will exceed mine output by 822,000 metric
tons in 2011, more than double last year’s shortfall,  Barclays
Capital  said on Jan. 20. JPMorgan Securities Ltd. and Macquarie
Bank Ltd. also predicted a deficit, and Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. and Morgan Stanley have boosted their price
forecasts.    Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s third-largest mining company,
forecast that high copper prices will continue amid rising
demand and before output from new projects eases a supply
shortfall.  “We will see a continued period of strong copper pricing,
largely because many of the large mines, including our own, are
seeing declining grades, deepening pits,” Tom Albanese, chief
executive officer of London-based Rio Tinto, told Australian
Broadcasting Corp.’s “Inside Business” television program.  China also imported 360,000 tons of scrap copper last
month, data from the Beijing-based customs showed. Imports of
aluminum and the metal’s products were 96,283 tons in December.  --Feiwen Rong and Glenys Sim. Editors:  Richard Dobson , Ravil
Shirodkar  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  