-- 
Coq d’Argent Restaurant Owner D&D Slashes Prices for Fine Wines

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-02-14T11:24:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/coq-d-argent-restaurant-owner-d-d-slashes-prices-for-fine-wines-in-london.html
D&D London Ltd.,  the former Conran
Restaurants, whose venues include Coq d’Argent, Paternoster Chop
House and Quaglino’s, is today cutting the amount it charges for
fine wines, with some prices dropping 300 pounds ($480) or more.  While 2,000 or so wines across D&D’s 20 London properties
will be affected, the company is promoting a Top 100 for the
next four weeks, with the particular focus on four restaurants:
Le Pont de la Tour, Orrery, Coq d’Argent and Launceston Place.  “Instead of having some wines that look very grand on our
wine list and occasionally selling a few bottles, we want to
make them more affordable so people can taste them,” D&D Chief
Executive Des Gunewardena said today in a telephone interview.
“It’s not entirely altruistic: We’re hoping that by cutting our
profit per bottle we’ll sell more and profit will grow.”  The reductions, applying to wines costing about 50 pounds
or more, will vary between venues. At Launceston Place, Dom
Perignon 2002 falls to 118 pounds from 185 pounds. At Le Pont de
la Tour, Chateau Haut Brion, 1er Cru Classe, Pessac Leognan,
Bordeaux, 1985 is cut to 500 pounds from 838 pounds.  The biggest differences are with Mayfair restaurants and
hotels, where bottles may cost hundreds of pounds more. Bob Bob
Ricard, a Soho venue that has slashed the prices of its fine
wines, makes specific comparisons on its website, showing a
saving of more than 1,000 pounds in the case of Echezeaux Grand
Cru, Domaine de la Romanee Conti, Burgundy, 1996.  Gunewardena said he hadn’t been influenced by Bob Bob
Ricard because that is a single restaurant. Cynics might assume
that D&D is simply trying to shift stock or to revive spending
on wine, which fell in the recession. Gunewardena denied this.  “If we’d launched this in 2008, we would have been doing
it for those reasons,” he said. “But we’re investing in stock,
and wine spending has been growing for the past 18 months.
Coming out of recession, there is a lot more interest in wine.
This is a long-term initiative, not a short-term promotion.”  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 