-- 
Credit Suisse Raises $6.2 Billion From Qatar Holding, Olayan

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   M a t t h i a s   W a b l
-- 
2011-02-14T09:22:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/credit-suisse-places-sf6-billion-in-tier-1-buffer-capital-notes.html
  Credit Suisse Group AG ,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, agreed to sell about 6
billion Swiss francs ($6.17 billion) of contingent convertible
bonds to shareholders in Qatar and  Saudi Arabia .  The notes will be issued to Qatar Holding LLC and The
Olayan Group no earlier than October 2013, in exchange for cash
or  Tier 1 capital  notes the bank sold to the investors in 2008,
the Zurich-based company said in an e-mailed  statement  today.
Credit Suisse rose as much as 2.9 percent in Swiss trading.  A Swiss government-appointed committee proposed in October
that Credit Suisse and  UBS AG  should hold almost double the
capital required under the Basel III rules and use contingent
convertible bonds to satisfy part of the requirement. The so-
called CoCos automatically become equity when certain triggers,
such as preset capital levels, are breached.  “It’s certainly positive to see that there is a market for
these bonds, which has been put in doubt before,” said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets.
“It is strange, though, that Credit Suisse felt the need to do
this now, before any guidelines about these instruments have
been finalized. It looks like they came under time pressure.”  Banks may struggle to raise the more than $1 trillion in
contingent convertible bonds needed to replace existing capital
securities over the next five to 10 years,  Standard & Poor’s 
said in a Dec. 9 report. Some investors have said CoCos won’t
sell because they inflict losses on holders in a crisis.  Dividend, Target Cut  Credit Suisse cut its 2010 dividend 35 percent last week
and lowered its target for return on equity in the next three to
five years to more than 15 percent from more than 18 percent
previously in response to stricter capital rules, which take
effect in 2019.  Credit Suisse climbed 1.04 francs, or 2.5 percent, to 42.64
francs by 9:41 a.m. in Zurich, after dropping 5.4 percent last
week. The stock is up 13 percent this year, compared with a 22
percent gain in UBS and a 12 percent increase in the 48-company
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  “We have worked in close cooperation with our primary
regulator, Finma, to ensure that the buffer capital notes will
qualify under the future Swiss capital rules as contingent
capital,” Chief Executive Officer Brady Dougan said in the
statement.  Coupons  “This announcement may well give the market some confidence
that contingent capital, or CoCos, will become a substantial
part of bank capital and that there will be sufficient demand
for the product from investors,”  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed
income at Evolution Securities Ltd. in  London , wrote in a client
note today. “If it does develop into a proper market then it
would be good news for senior debt as clearly it would offer a
further level of protection against losses.”  The bank agreed to sell $3.5 billion of contingent
convertibles with a coupon of 9.5 percent, and 2.5 billion
francs with a coupon of 9 percent, it said. The sale will happen
no earlier than October 2013, which is the first call date on
$3.5 billion of 11 percent and 2.5 billion francs of 10 percent
Tier 1 capital notes the bank sold in 2008.  The notes will convert into shares if the bank’s Basel III
common equity Tier 1 ratio falls below 7 percent. The conversion
price will be the higher of the floor price of $20 or 20 francs
per share or the daily weighted average sale price of ordinary
shares over the trading period preceding the notice of
conversion, the bank said.  High Trigger  The transaction is subject to the implementation of Swiss
regulations and the approval of shareholders, the bank said. The
Swiss committee proposed that the country’s two biggest banks
should hold common equity equal to at least 10 percent of their
assets, weighted according to risks. In addition, the companies
may hold up to 3 percent in so-called high-trigger CoCos that
would convert into shares if the bank’s common equity ratio
falls below 7 percent, plus 6 percent in CoCos that would
convert at a 5 percent trigger.  Credit Suisse said the 6 billion-franc sale would satisfy
about 50 percent of the high-trigger requirement. The bank said
it would like to see the market for contingent convertible bonds
expand to a wider group of buyers and is pursuing an additional
offering of such notes to potential investors outside the U.S.
and certain other countries.    Qatar   Qatar and Olayan of Saudi Arabia were among investors that
Credit Suisse tapped for 10 billion francs in October 2008.
Qatar Investment Authority, an affiliate of Qatar Holding, has a
6.17 percent stake in Credit Suisse, while Olayan owns 6.61
percent through Crescent Holding GmbH, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Qatar Holding sees this transaction as an enhancement to
our existing investment, and we believe it will support our
objective of generating long-term stable returns,” CEO Ahmad Al-Sayed said in the statement.  Credit Suisse may reach a Basel III common equity capital
ratio of 11.5 percent by January of 2013 if its earnings and
dividend payments are in line with analysts’ expectations, Chief
Financial Officer  David Mathers  said on a conference call today.
That ratio may rise to 13 percent by the end of 2013, he said.  UBS has said it won’t issue contingent convertible bonds
until it “significantly” builds up capital. The bank may also
consider creating other instruments to satisfy regulator’s
requirements to have contingency plans for increasing capital in
times of need that would not dilute shareholders further, CEO
Oswald Gruebel said last week.  UBS’s core capital ratio under Basel III may rise to 13
percent in 2013, excluding planned actions to reduce risk-
weighted assets and assuming earnings will be accumulated in
line with analysts’ estimates, the bank said in September. The
bank has said it won’t be paying dividends while it builds up
reserves.  The Swiss regulatory proposals are currently under
discussion and could be approved, at the earliest, during
parliament’s three-week autumn session, which starts on Sept.
12, Swiss parliament spokesman Mark Stucki said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthias Wabl in Zurich at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  