-- 
Cyber-Intelligence Gathering Would Get More Funding in Obama Budget Plan

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-02-14T21:34:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/cyber-intelligence-gathering-would-get-more-funding-in-obama-budget-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  proposed
increasing the U.S.  Justice Department ’s spending by 2 percent,
calling for an expansion of cyber investigations and new prison
beds.  The budget calls for spending $28.2 billion for the fiscal
year that begins Oct. 1, compared with $27.6 billion for the
fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, 2010, the last year in which
Congress enacted a 12-month spending plan. The government is
operating under temporary spending authority that expires March
4.  The spending blueprint calls for the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , part of the Justice Department, to hire 42 people
to investigate computer intrusions, including those by cyber-
terrorists and nation states, and 73 new positions to expand
national security investigations, according to budget documents.  “The president’s budget request demonstrates a dedication
to protecting our national security and a commitment to using
every instrument of power to fight terrorism and keep America
safe,” Attorney General  Eric Holder  said in a statement.  New Prison Beds  Funding would be provided for 7,200 new prison beds and the
operation of three new prisons in Alabama,  New Hampshire  and
Illinois to accommodate an increasing inmate population. The
Justice Department would hire six more attorneys to fight
counterfeiting and international trade in illegitimate goods.  Budget cuts include reducing funding for a  drug
intelligence center  in  Pennsylvania .  The budget doesn’t include any funding for relocating
terrorism suspects from Guantanamo Bay in Cuba to the U.S., one
of Obama’s priorities. Congress limited the administration’s
ability to relocate the prisoners to the U.S. The Obama
administration is discussing the restrictions with lawmakers.  The budget also would continue funding for financial fraud
task forces and attorneys handling litigation stemming from last
year’s BP Plc oil spill in the  Gulf of Mexico .  The administration’s proposal for $28.2 billion in spending
includes $7.26 billion from seized assets and fines and
penalties paid by convicted federal defendants. Using those
funds to offset spending, the administration is asking Congress
to approve $20.9 billion for the department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Meszoly at   rmeszoly@bloomberg.net  