-- 
Dodd-Frank May Cost $6.5 Billion and 5,000 Workers

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-02-14T21:22:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/dodd-frank-s-implementation-calls-for-6-5-billion-5-000-staff-in-budget.html
President  Barack Obama  proposed
adding about $6.5 billion to financial regulators’ spending as
they try to implement new mandates ranging from policing
derivatives to unwinding collapsed firms deemed too big to fail.  The $3.7 trillion federal spending plan calls for eight
agencies to hire more than 5,000 people as they implement the
2010 Dodd-Frank Act, according to the budget proposal Obama sent
to Congress today and data compiled by Bloomberg. That includes
1,225 hires at the new  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ,
which is scheduled to formally begin work July 21.  The Dodd-Frank Act has become central to the spending and
regulation debate in Congress. Republicans, who almost
unanimously opposed the law, have said regulatory budgets are
ripe for cuts.  “These funds will provide the SEC with the resources
needed to carry out both our longstanding core mission as well
as our new responsibilities for derivatives, hedge fund advisers
and credit rating agencies,” Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in a statement today, adding that
the agency’s spending is offset by transaction fees and doesn’t
add to the deficit.  Overall, Obama’s plan for implementing the rules would add
about $4.8 billion from taxpayers and another $1.7 billion at
agencies that are self-funded through fees, according to a
preliminary analysis by Bloomberg Government analyst Cady North.
The cost would be roughly equivalent to adding another  Army
Corps  of Engineers to the federal budget.  Core Mission  Agencies including the SEC and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission have been warning lawmakers that budget
constraints could prevent them from implementing Dodd-Frank
provisions. Schapiro said this month that tighter spending was
already having an impact on the agency’s core mission of
investor protection “separate and apart from the new
responsibilities” under Dodd-Frank.  Obama’s proposal falls short of spending levels authorized
for the SEC in Dodd-Frank by about $100 million. The law
authorized an allocation of $1.5 billion for the SEC in fiscal
2012, with subsequent increases that would double the agency’s
budget by 2015. Under Obama’s proposal, the SEC’s budget would
increase 28 percent to $1.4 billion.  Today’s budget proposal would authorize the agency to add
more than 600 new employees, a staffing increase of about 16
percent. Under Obama’s plan, SEC enforcement -- the agency’s
chief cost -- would rise 27 percent to $460 million.  The president’s proposal for a budget beginning Oct. 1 sets
apart $50 million for an SEC reserve fund to be used for
spending “necessary to carry out the functions of the
commission.”  User Fees    Barbara Roper , director of investor protection for the
Washington-based  Consumer Federation of America , said she was
pleased to see the president’s proposal reflect the agency’s
increased workload. “I think the SEC has been grossly
underfunded for decades,” Roper said.  For the CFTC, the budget would jump to $308 million -- an
increase of more than 80 percent over Congress’s 2010
allocation. Obama proposed that the agency introduce user fees
on the derivatives industry to raise as much as $117 million in
the 2012 fiscal year and $588 million through 2016.  House Republicans, who took power after the November
elections, have pointed specifically to the CFTC’s derivatives
rules as being too onerous and, in some cases, without merit.  ‘Micro-Managing’  “The commission is currently headed down a path that
extends well beyond the statutory requirements of Dodd-Frank and
is attempting, at the request of no one, to micro-manage
individual risk across all industries and sectors,”
Representative Michael Conaway of  Texas , a House Agriculture
panel subcommittee chairman, said last week.  Representative  Scott Garrett , a Republican from  New Jersey ,
said the user fee proposal is “an off-budget accounting gimmick
that will hide the true cost and scope of the federal
government.”  Democrats, led by Representative  Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts , the senior Democrat on the House Financial
Services Committee, have said the Republicans are using cuts as
a way to strangle the regulations before they go into place.  The CFPB, which will oversee consumer finance products
offered by firms from large banks to small payday lenders,
indicated in the budget request that it will spend $329 million
for fiscal year 2012. That will allow it to hire as many as
1,225 people, according to the president’s budget request.  Fed Funding  The consumer bureau’s funding comes directly from the  Federal Reserve ’s own independent income stream, and Dodd-Frank
authorizes it to spend as much as 11 percent of Fed operating
expenses in 2012. That would allow the bureau to spend as much
as $550 million in 2012.  Some banking regulators, including the Fed and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., set their own budgets and fund them
through fees. The FDIC, which is required by Dodd-Frank to boost
the fund that insures deposits, would add more than 1,700 staff
under the president’s proposal.  The spending plan includes $19.5 billion to cover the
FDIC’s new authority to unwind systemically significant
financial institutions when they fail through 2021. While the
total costs of any liquidation are supposed to be recovered in
full, that recovery happens during the years following the
liquidation, making the budget allocation necessary, the
spending plan said.  The Financial Services Oversight Council and Office of
Financial Research, which will hire an estimated 192 people
combined, will be funded through transfers from the Federal
Reserve, creating “no net taxpayer cost” for their operation,
according to the proposal.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which
oversees nationally chartered financial institutions, would hire
875 new staff under the proposal. The Office of Thrift
Supervision is being merged with the OCC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 