-- 
Dougan Lowers Returns Goal as Blankfein Clings to 20%

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-02-15T10:35:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/dougan-lowers-return-on-equity-target-as-goldman-s-blankfein-clings-to-20-.html
By cutting  Credit Suisse Group AG ’s
profitability target last week, Brady Dougan acknowledged what
some Wall Street bankers and investors are loath to concede:
Tougher capital rules will mean lower returns.  Dougan, the Zurich-based bank’s chief executive officer,
lowered the goal for return on equity, a measure of
profitability, to more than 15 percent from more than 18
percent.  Barclays Plc  said today it will aim for a 13 percent
ROE, down from an average of 18 percent over the past 30 years.
By contrast,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., the bank that makes the
most revenue from trading, insists its target of a 20 percent
return on tangible equity doesn’t need to be moved.  Profitability soared in the middle of the last decade as
banks increased leverage, using borrowed money to bulk up on
assets. The credit crisis exposed the risks of that strategy and
resulted in $1.48 trillion of writedowns and losses worldwide.
To generate the same returns while holding more capital, Wall
Street firms can either discover fresh profit opportunities or
reduce costs, including pay, analysts said.  “If the margins stay the same and the balance-sheet
leverage drops, as we know it has, ROEs go down,” said Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York .
“Your choice is pretty simple then: You cut compensation to
your employees or you ask your clients to pay more. If that’s
impossible, well then your targets are going to go down.”  Tougher Swiss Rules  New rules drawn up by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  and endorsed by Group of 20 leaders last year will
require lenders to more than triple the highest-quality capital
they hold to cushion against losses by 2019. The regulations may
trim the return on equity of European banks, on average, by 4
percentage points, and U.S. banks by 3 percentage points,
according to estimates by McKinsey & Co. consultants.  Switzerland may ask  UBS AG  and Credit Suisse, the country’s
largest banks, to raise capital to almost twice the new Basel
levels while allowing them to make up for part of the difference
by selling bonds designed to convert into equity when a lender’s
reserves drop below an agreed-upon threshold. Credit Suisse said
yesterday it agreed to sell about 6 billion Swiss francs ($6.18
billion) of contingent convertible bonds to shareholders in
Qatar and Saudi Arabia in October 2013 at the earliest.  Dougan, 51, said on Feb. 10 that Credit Suisse looked at
the rules and decided the bank’s old target was unrealistic. The
company reported a 2010 return on equity of 14.4 percent. He
also cut the dividend by 35 percent to build up reserves.
Investors punished the stock, sending it to the biggest decline
in nine months.  ‘Among the Best’  “I think, over the next three to five years, we can make
more than 15 percent,” the Credit Suisse CEO said in an
interview last week. “If we do that, you and I will be standing
here in five years time and you’ll say that was a very, very
good performance, among the best in the industry. But a lot of
people don’t think longer term like that.”  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-largest U.S. bank by assets, says
its target for returns is still in reach. Chief Financial
Officer David Viniar told investors at a conference in  Florida 
last week that higher  capital requirements  won’t necessarily
lead to lower returns because other circumstances can change,
such as the rapid growth of emerging markets.  “We’re going to be Goldman Sachs in more places than we
are now,” Viniar, 55, said. “And so hopefully there will be
revenue opportunities that will rise along with our capital
requirements.”  Goldman Returns  In its 12 years as a public company, Goldman Sachs has
generated an average return of 23.9 percent on tangible common
shareholders’ equity. Tangible common equity is total  shareholders’ equity  excluding preferred stock, goodwill and
identifiable intangible assets. The firm has achieved its goal
of attaining a 20 percent return on tangible equity over a
business cycle, even though returns have zigzagged from a high
of 39.8 percent in 2006 to a low of 5.5 percent in 2008.  “We’re not in a position now to say we have to adjust
that,” CEO  Lloyd Blankfein , 56, said of the New York-based
bank’s profitability goal at a Nov. 16 investors’ conference.  While Goldman Sachs sets its return targets based on
tangible common equity, the firm also reports a regular return
on common shareholders’ equity. Over the last 12 years, the
average for that measure was 20.2 percent, with a peak of 32.8
percent in 2006 and a trough of 4.9 percent in 2008.  Charles Peabody, a bank analyst at Portales Partners LLC in
New York, said Goldman Sachs eventually will have to lower its
targets, something shareholders already are anticipating.  Reasonableness a ‘Crime’  “The valuations for the investment banks and money-center
banks have not been very high, and that’s because of this
regulatory override that in many respects caps ROEs,” Peabody
said. “The marketplace understands ROEs are coming down, even
if managements haven’t admitted it yet.”  After the response by investors to Credit Suisse’s revised
target, Dougan’s CEO counterparts may decide it’s best to leave
their goals where they are, at least for now, said Dirk Hoffmann-Becking, a London-based analyst with  Sanford Bernstein .  “Credit Suisse’s reasonableness seems to be a crime,”
said Hoffmann-Becking, who described the new goal as
“sensible.” His research shows that Credit Suisse’s average
return on equity in the 40 years through 2000 was 8 percent,
before rising to 27.5 percent in 2006.  Other banks have indicated they may need to cut targets or
reorganize businesses because of higher capital requirements.  Michael Geoghegan , CEO of London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc  at the
time, said in August that the bank will “aspire” to achieve a
return on equity at the lower end of between 15 percent and 19
percent and will review the goal “when the regulatory framework
becomes clearer.”  Gruebel’s UBS  UBS had an average return on equity of 9.2 percent in the
40 years through 2000, before that ratio rose to an average of
19.4 percent in the following six years, according to data
compiled by Hoffmann-Becking.  While the Swiss bank set a target of between 15 percent and
20 percent in 2009 and hasn’t changed that range, CFO John Cryan
said in November that returns in the industry will fall “unless
we do something about revenue rates.”  Oswald Gruebel, UBS’s 67-year-old CEO, told reporters last
week that the Zurich-based bank won’t shy away from slashing
costs should it fail to boost revenue at its investment bank and
may consider reorganizing to place businesses that use a lot of
capital in locations with lower requirements. Cryan, 50, said
the company will be more selective about which businesses to
keep, based on their profitability and capital needs.  Ackermann’s Target    Deutsche Bank AG ,  Europe ’s biggest investment bank by
revenue, is sticking to a goal of 25 percent pretax return on
average active equity and plans to boost earnings at the
securities unit by reaping cost and revenue benefits from closer
integration, CEO Josef Ackermann, 63, said at press conference
on Feb. 3. The Frankfurt-based bank doesn’t plan to increase
capital levels as much as some competitors because it doesn’t
want to dilute returns, he said.  “It will only be maybe six months from now where you will
start focusing more on the return on equity again,” Ackermann
said. “We want to be well-capitalized, but we would like to
meet the financial markets’ requirements in terms of return on
equity.”  Diamond’s Challenge  Robert Diamond, Barclays’s former  investment-banking  chief
who replaced John Varley as CEO last month, is reviewing
operations to see which units are generating insufficient
returns. The strategic challenge for Barclays is that businesses
consuming about 35 percent of group equity will probably be
making returns in 2013 lower than the 11.5 percent cost of
equity, the return shareholders expect from dividends and the
stock price, according to the bank’s forecasts.  The London-based bank’s 13 percent ROE target is based on a
core Tier 1 capital ratio of 9 percent, Barclays said, adding
that there is “no certainty” that this level of capital will
be enough in the future.  “The new environment will necessitate lower returns than
the period just preceding the recent crisis,” Diamond, 59, said
in remarks posted on Barclays’ website today. “We have already
undertaken a strategic review of our operating model that should
take out considerable running costs over the medium-term, and
you should expect us to continue to act to adjust our business
and asset portfolio mix as required to achieve our return
goals.”  Basel Requirements  New Basel rules will hurt returns at banks’ fixed-income
units the most, Morgan Stanley analysts led by Huw van Steenis
wrote in a note last month. The stricter requirements would have
cut the average return on equity by 5.7 percentage points to 8.3
percent in fixed-income businesses in 2010, they estimated. That
would have compared with a 2.6 percentage point decline to 16.5
percent in equities, they wrote.  “We have been encouraged by UBS and Barclays’ decision to
re-assess critically their portfolio, whilst Deutsche is also
addressing costs in earnest,” Morgan Stanley analysts said in a
separate note on Feb. 11.    JPMorgan Chase & Co . is sticking to a target of 17 percent
ROE at its investment bank, which it met in 2010, CFO Douglas Braunstein said at an investors’ conference in November. The New
York-based firm is expanding in emerging markets, including
Brazil and  China , and in commodities to help boost revenue after
increasing equity allocation to the unit by 21 percent, he said.  Jes Staley, CEO of JPMorgan’s investment bank, cut the
unit’s ROE target to 17 percent from 20 percent in February
2010. While the investment bank posted a 21 percent return in
2009, Staley, 54, said the unit’s average over the previous five
years was about 12 percent.  Capital ‘Hog’  The cut came one year after Steven Black, then co-head of
investment banking, said he wasn’t ready “to throw in the
towel” on the target. The bank, which also has retail, asset-
management and credit-card businesses, reported an overall
 return on equity  of 10 percent last year.    Morgan Stanley  CEO  James Gorman , 52, said in October he
expects return on equity to be in the “mid to high teens”
through a business cycle. That’s higher than the 12 percent to
15 percent target the New York-based firm set in 2008.  The company will improve returns by investing in businesses
that don’t require much capital, including its retail brokerage
and asset management, while moving funds away from “capital
hog” units, Gorman said at an investor conference this month.
Gorman also said he hopes to improve returns from the firm’s
fixed-income trading business after increasing headcount in its
rates and foreign-exchange groups by more than 20 percent.  ‘Very Creative’  The bank posted ROE of 9 percent last year. Morgan
Stanley’s return on equity averaged 19.7 percent from 2000 to
2006, before falling to 8.9 percent in 2007 and 4.9 percent in
2008. The firm posted its first per-share loss in 2009.  Banks have proven adept in the past at responding to
regulatory pressures and are likely to do so again, said Jordan Posner, senior portfolio manager at New York-based Matrix Asset
Advisors Inc., which oversees more than $1 billion.  “Over time, the investment banks have been very
creative,” Posner said in an interview. “The expectations have
come down. The performance will rise faster than the targets do
as the banks figure it out more quickly.”  Posner said he doesn’t expect returns to regain the heights
attained before the financial crisis, when markets were
“ebullient” and capital requirements were lower.  Banks unwilling to accept lower returns on equity that
result from higher capital requirements may fuel new bubbles by
chasing returns in commodities or emerging markets, consulting
firm  Oliver Wyman  warned in a  report  published last month titled
“The Financial Crisis of 2015: An Avoidable History.” It urges
executives and shareholders to accept that returns of the past
are unsustainable and says banks need to do a better job
monitoring risks, especially in areas that produce high profits.  “Banks need to be less leveraged,” Barrie Wilkinson, a
London-based partner at the firm who wrote the report, said last
month. “The true test for me of whether they’ve deleveraged is
if the industrywide ROEs come down. If they don’t, I’m very
suspicious that there are hidden risks in the system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 