-- 
Technology Firms Mute `Earnings Noise' as Adjusted Numbers Fade

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-02-14T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/technology-firms-mute-earnings-noise-as-adjusted-numbers-fade.html
Technology companies are
spotlighting earnings that more closely comply with accounting
rules, a turnaround from a decade ago, after  Apple Inc . and its
peers stopped excluding certain costs from profit.  The industry’s average “earnings noise” score fell to 43
last quarter from 61 at the start of 2009, based on Bloomberg
data showing the spread between earnings before abnormal items
and net income under generally accepted accounting principles.
Larger nonoperating items lead to a higher score, and the drop
for technology was the most among nine sectors studied.  During the Internet bubble, technology companies earned a
reputation for reporting “earnings before bad things,” said
 Shiva Rajgopal , professor of accounting at Emory University’s
Goizueta Business School in Atlanta.  Regulation G , a 2003
Securities and Exchange Commission rule, helped end those
practices, he said.  “After Regulation G a lot of abuse came down,” he said.
“Companies started putting fewer recurring expenses into
exclusions. They started highlighting pro forma earnings less in
press releases, the magnitude of exclusions declined and fewer
losses have been changed into pro forma profits.”  A shift away from  stock options  for employee pay and the
collapse of some of the worst adjusted-earnings offenders also
mean that more companies are showcasing their GAAP results,
Rajgopal said.  Masking Performance?  A decade ago, companies often played down nonoperating
expenses such as costs for acquisitions or stock options.
Regulators and investors fretted that by focusing on numbers
without these exclusions, companies could mask operating
performance and hide costs.  Through 2006, Apple gave GAAP earnings forecasts as well as
projections stripping out certain costs. That changed in 2007,
and the Cupertino, California-based maker of computers and iPads
now reports only GAAP-compliant numbers. A spokesman, Steve
Dowling, declined to comment.  The “earnings noise” data compiled by Bloomberg covered
790 nonfinancial companies from the  Russell 1000 Index , in
industries ranging from health care to energy. Eight quarters,
spanning 2009 and 2010, were reviewed.  The earlier quarters, just after one of the greatest
declines in asset values in recent history, were marred with
writedowns of acquisitions, severance charges and corporate
restructurings.  Adjusted Results    Seagate Technology Plc , the biggest maker of computer disk-
drives, had a loss of $6.17 a share in 2009’s first three
months, including a $2.3 billion charge related to writing off
goodwill and other assets. Last quarter, GAAP and non-GAAP
results differed by only $9 million.    International Rectifier Corp ., a maker of semiconductors,
reported a loss of $1.13 a share that same 2009 quarter,
including $23.9 million for impairment of goodwill, $11.7
million for investment impairment and $7.1 million in
restructuring costs. The most-recent quarter had no charges.  Seagate and International Rectifier didn’t return telephone
messages left for comment on Feb. 11.  While last quarter’s earnings noise was the lowest for
technology companies in the two years of data, materials
companies posted their highest average as they excluded more
costs. For utilities, the three worst quarters for earnings
noise came in the last nine months of 2010, the data show.  In some cases, adjusted earnings may be a more accurate
gauge of a company’s results, Rajgopal said.    United Airlines ’ former parent UAL Corp. posted net income
of $23 billion in the first quarter of 2006, when the company
left bankruptcy. Excluding benefits from restructuring in court,
UAL had a $306 million loss as its fuel bill soared 33 percent.  Recent adherence to accounting rules and companies’ retreat
from other measures of earnings may stem from poor investor
sentiment in the past several years, not a permanent shift in
corporate attitudes, Rajgopal said.  “Managers use pro forma more in a boom time,” he said.
“When sentiment is high, stock prices are high and if your
economic performance doesn’t quite justify your stock price,
spin kind of takes over,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  