-- 
EchoStar Rises on $1.32 Billion Deal to Buy Hughes in Satellite Expansion

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 
2011-02-14T21:22:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/echostar-rises-on-1-32-billion-deal-to-buy-hughes-in-satellite-expansion.html
  EchoStar Corp ., a provider of
television set-top boxes and satellite services, climbed in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading after agreeing to buy  Hughes
Communications Inc . for about $1.32 billion.  Hughes shareholders will receive $60.70 a share without
interest, a 31 percent premium over its closing share price of
$46.43 on Jan. 19, the companies said today in a statement.
Reuters reported Jan. 20 that Hughes was looking for a buyer.  The deal adds broadband data services to EchoStar, which
gets most of its revenue from  Dish Network Corp ., the second-
largest U.S. satellite-TV provider. Hughes, based in Germantown,  Maryland , runs broadband satellite networks for businesses,
governments and consumers. The total value of the deal,
including debt, is $2 billion.  EchoStar, based in Englewood,  Colorado , gained 96 cents, or
3.2 percent, to $30.84 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. Hughes fell $2.31, or 3.7 percent, to $59.47.  The purchase “brings together the two premier providers of
satellite communications services and delivers substantial value
to our shareholders,” Pradman Kaul, chief executive officer of
Hughes said in the statement.  The deal, expected to close this year, was approved by
investment funds affiliated with Apollo Management IV, LP, which
own a majority of Hughes outstanding stock, the statement said.
It also has the approval of the companies’ boards, it said.  It’s the second satellite deal for EchoStar Chairman
Charlie Ergen this month. On Feb. 1, Dish, where Ergen is also
chairman, agreed to buy DBSD North America Inc. for about $1
billion.  Deal Valuation  The Hughes acquisition values the company at 8.9 times the
company’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization during the past year. In 10 similar deals in the
past decade, acquirers paid a median of 6.2 times trailing
Ebitda, according to Bloomberg data.  Deutsche Bank Securities served as financial adviser to
EchoStar, while  Barclays Capital  advised Hughes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  