-- 
Hedge Funds Increase Bullish Wheat Bets to Highest Since 2007

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-02-14T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/hedge-funds-boost-bullish-wheat-bets-to-highest-in-more-than-three-years.html
  Hedge funds  increased their bullish
bets on wheat to the highest in more than three years amid
shrinking global supplies and mounting concern that food
inflation will accelerate.  In the week ended Feb. 8 on the Chicago Board of Trade, the
funds and money managers increased net-long positions, or wagers
on rising prices, by 19 percent to 51,787 contracts, the highest
since August 2007, government data showed on Feb. 11. On Feb. 9,
wheat prices reached a 29-month peak of $8.9325 a bushel.  Last week, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  lowered its
forecast for global inventories. Futures have jumped 77 percent
in the past year after drought slashed crops in  Russia  and
floods in Canada and  Australia  reduced output. Surging food
costs have triggered riots in North  Africa  and the Middle East.
Egypt’s Hosni Mubarak ceded power on Feb. 11.  “The sensitivity of the world’s populace to food
inflation, the cost of a loaf of bread, is a concern and may
actually be one of the catalysts for the groundswell of support
for changing existing regimes around the world,” John Thorpe, a
senior broker at Cannon Trading Co. in Beverly Hills,  California , said in a telephone interview on Feb. 11. “Just
from a macroeconomic view, that’s probably why hedge funds may
be jumping on here.”  An index of global food rose to a record in January as
dairy, sugar and cereal costs increased, and high prices may
persist for the next several months, the  United Nations  said
this month. Countries have stepped up grain purchases to boost
inventories.    China , the largest wheat consumer, may have a prolonged
drought in its main growing region, Han Changfu, the minister of
agriculture, said last week. The U.S. is the leading exporter.  ‘Food Security’  The grain rally has been fueled by the “the continued
focus on food security around the world, the drought in China,
and unrest in Africa,” said Diana Klemme, the director of the
grain division for Grain Service Corp. in Atlanta. “Wheat is
the staff of life.”  On Feb. 11, wheat futures for March delivery rose 4.25
cents, or 0.5 percent, to $8.67 a bushel on the CBOT. The
contract for May, the most-active based on open interest, gained
0.5 percent to $8.9875.  Wheat climbed to a record of $13.495 on Feb. 27, 2008. Last
week, corn and soybeans rose to the highest since July 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  