-- 
Hedge Funds ‘Bearish With a Capital B’ in Gas: Energy Markets

-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 
2011-02-14T19:59:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/hedge-funds-turn-bearish-with-a-capital-b-on-natural-gas-energy-markets.html
  Hedge funds  raised bearish bets on
natural gas to the highest level since December 2008 as the fuel
plunged on speculation that seasonal inventories will reach
near-record levels at the end of March.  The funds and other large speculators increased net-short
positions, or wagers on falling prices, in futures on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  by 27 percent in the seven days ended
Feb. 8, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
weekly Commitments of Traders report.  Warming weather coupled with rising production has
heightened concern that inventories will end the heating season
with a surplus again this year. Natural gas declined 9.3 percent
last week on forecasts for higher-than-normal temperatures.  “This great thaw is thawing out the bulls that thought
they could run this market,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of
research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “Even with the last freeze, we
couldn’t get above $5. We’re certainly not going to do it now.”  Natural gas for March delivery declined 30.7 cents, or 7.1
percent, in the week covered by the report. The fuel rose 1.5
cents, or 0.4 percent, to settle at $3.925 per million British
thermal units today on the Nymex.  Higher-than-average temperatures will reduce heating
consumption this week, said  David Salmon , a meteorologist with
Weather Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri , in a report today.
Demand through Feb. 18 will be 3 percent to 38 percent below
normal, he said.  New York Highs    New York City  will see high temperatures of 55 degrees
Fahrenheit (13 degrees Celsius) today, 14 degrees above normal,
and will reach a high of 63 degrees on Feb. 18, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania.  Chicago  will
reach 55 degrees on Feb. 17, 18 degrees higher than average.  The U.S. is approaching the end of a colder-than-normal
winter that boosted heating demand and eroded stockpiles by 30
percent since the start of the year. Since November, heating
degree days have been 8 percent above year-ago levels and 12
percent above the long-term average, analysts including  Cameron Horwitz  at Canaccord Genuity in Houston said in a note to
clients Feb. 10.  Traders are closing bets that gas prices will rise before
the so-called injection season from April through October, when
production usually outpaces demand and inventories rise, Flynn
said.  Net Shorts  The net-short position rose to 112,081, the highest since
the week ended Dec. 19, 2008. Most of the increase came from the
short side of the market, with traders adding 20,123 bets that
prices will fall, an increase of 8.4 percent to 259,699, the
highest level since Oct. 21, 2008.  Natural gas marketed production in 2011 will average 62.32
billion cubic feet a day in 2011, up from 61.38 billion
estimated in January, the Energy Department said Feb. 8 in its
monthly  Short-Term Energy Outlook .  “It’s bearish with a capital B,” said  Hamza Khan , an
analyst with the Schork Group Inc., a consulting company in
Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “Everyone is looking for heavy
production to continue.”  Inventories may total 1.651 trillion cubic feet by the end
of March, the Energy Department estimated Feb. 8 in its Short-
Term Energy Outlook. Last year’s total as of March 31 was 1.662
trillion, a record for the end of the heating season.  Near Records  The Energy Department “expects near-record high
inventories to continue through most of 2011,” with prices
averaging $4.16 for the year, 22 cents less than 2010, according
to DOE’s monthly outlook.  While warmer weather may leave inventories near a record,
colder-than-normal temperatures initially eroded the surplus.
Natural gas stockpiles declined by 209 billion cubic feet the
week ended Feb. 4 to 2.144 trillion, the Energy Department said
Feb. 10. The storage level was 2.1 percent below the five-year
average, dropping to a deficit for the first time since Jan. 15,
2010.  Frigid weather throughout the U.S. slowed natural
production and transportation during the week covered by the
inventory report, leading to a larger-than-expected drop in
stockpiles, Khan said.  New Mexico Governor Susana Martinez, a Republican, declared
a state of emergency on Feb. 4 due to gas shortages, closing
government offices not providing essential services. New Mexico
Gas Co. said rolling blackouts in West  Texas  had cut gas
deliveries to the state, forcing interruptions to customers in
several towns. Gas shortages were also reported in  Arizona  and  Southern California .  El Paso Cuts    El Paso Corp . reduced flows because of the cold, limiting
supplies to utilities from Texas to  California , the company said
Feb. 3. The El Paso said  Feb. 5  that pipeline pressure had
returned to normal operating levels.  Service interruptions have been resolved, and the dip in
inventories below the five-year average is likely to be short-
lived, Khan said.  Net-long positions in natural gas held by managed money,
including hedge funds, commodity pools and commodity-trading
advisers, in futures and options combined in four natural-gas
contracts declined for a second week, falling by 35,374 futures
equivalents, or 33 percent, to 71,625 in the week ended Feb. 8.
It was the largest drop in seven weeks.  The measure of net longs includes an index of four
contracts adjusted to futures equivalents: Nymex natural gas
futures, Nymex Henry Hub Swaps, Nymex Henry Hub Penultimate
Swaps and ICE Henry Hub Swaps.  Henry Hub , in Erath,  Louisiana ,
is the delivery point for Nymex futures, a benchmark price for
the fuel.  In other markets, bullish, or long, bets on gasoline fell
8.3 percent to 59,913 futures and options combined, the CFTC
data showed. Net-long bets on heating oil declined by 2.4
percent to 36,443. Net-long positions in oil increased by 442
futures and options combined, or 0.2 percent, to 202,383,
according to the CFTC report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in  New York  at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 