-- 
Egyptian GDRs Gain as Army Vows to Hold Elections

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-02-14T16:51:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/egyptian-gdrs-advance-after-army-pledges-to-hold-elections-in-six-months.html
Global depositary receipts of
Egyptian companies rose, led by  Commercial International Bank
Egypt SAE , after the North African country’s army dissolved
parliament and vowed to hold elections in six months.  Commercial International, the nation’s biggest publicly
traded lender, jumped 7.8 percent in London. The Market Vectors
Egypt Index ETF, an exchange traded fund that holds Egyptian
shares, climbed 2.8 percent at 11:29 a.m. in  New York . The local
bourse, shut for more than two weeks, extended a trading
suspension by at least two days. Egypt’s dollar bonds due 2020
were little changed with the yield at 6.37 percent. The
country’s default risk rose from the lowest since Jan. 24.  Egypt’s army said yesterday it will rule for six months or
until general elections are held after a popular uprising led to
the toppling of President  Hosni Mubarak ’s 30-year-old regime.
The military promised to honor all international and regional
treaties signed by the nation.  “Egypt’s heading toward political stability is driving
positive investor sentiment,” said Omar Taha, equity analyst at
Cairo-based Beltone Securities Brokerage.  Trading Suspension  GDRs of Commercial International climbed the most since
Feb. 1 to $6.325 and Orascom Construction Industries, the
country’s biggest builder, advanced 4 percent to $39.  Egypt’s bourse will be closed until “banks return to
normal operation,” exchange spokesman Hisham Turk said in a
telephone interview today. Trading was scheduled to resume Feb.
16 and now may start Feb. 20. Banks were shut today after
protests by some employees and will be closed for a public
holiday tomorrow.  “Some investors are growing frustrated because they want
access to their money,” said Hazem Choucri, a foreign
institutional trader at Cairo-based AlembicHC. “But this is the
right move because it gives us time to see what happens. No one
wants to see the market plummet.”  Egypt ’s benchmark stock index
lost 16 percent in the week before the suspension.  GDRs of EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, the country’s biggest
publicly traded investment bank, lost 2.1 percent to $8.80. The
company yesterday said its relationship with Mubarak’s son,
Gamal, is limited to his 18 percent stake in one of its
subsidiaries.  Naguib Sawiris, the chairman of Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television he is
concerned about capital outflows. The central bank intervened to
support the Egyptian pound last week. The pound was little
changed at 5.8780 today.  Swaps Rise  Egypt’s Minister of Finance Samir Radwan said today the
budget deficit will widen to as much as 8.4 percent from an
earlier forecast of 7.9 percent of gross domestic product as
spending increases and economic growth slows. He said in a Feb.
12 interview economic growth may drop to 4 percent in the fiscal
year through June from 5.1 percent in the previous 12 months.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bond due 2020 rose
3 basis points after tumbling 15 basis points on Feb. 11,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of insuring
government debt against default rose 8 basis points to 330 from
the close in  London  on Feb. 11, according to CMA prices for
credit-default swaps.  The country auctioned 6.5 billion pounds ($1.1 billion) in
treasury bills yesterday, all the funds it sought after it
failed to sell the total amount in a sale the previous week. The
Ministry of Finance’s three-month bills yielded an average 10.95
percent compared with 10.97 percent at last week’s sale, the
highest since February 2009. The yield on the 266-day bills rose
to 11.68 percent, also the highest in two years, from 11.66
percent.  “The yields will stabilize or reverse direction to become
a little lower” in the short- and medium-term, said Walaa Hazem, who helps run about $1 billion in equity and fixed-income
as vice president for asset management at Cairo-based investment
bank HC Security & Investment Co. A widening  budget deficit  and
the likelihood of a drop in economic growth will prevent yields
from falling “significantly,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  