-- 
Egyptian Women Silently Endure Sexual Harassment, Movie Reveals

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-02-14T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/egyptian-women-battle-sexual-abuse-after-decades-of-silence-movie-reveals.html
A man on a crammed public bus
presses his pelvis against the body of a veiled woman. Another
grabs her bottom as she walks on the street in broad daylight.  Compared to the deadly clashes that have erupted in  Egypt ’s
streets and the change of government, these episodes may seem
secondary. Yet they have been commonplace for decades. Director
Mohamed Diab has chosen to include them in a movie that portrays
three women enduring sexual harassment, with the social pressure
and silence that go with it.  “What we want to say through this movie is that you should
speak out and hold your head up high,” Diab said in an
interview in Cairo. “There’s nothing to be ashamed of, so do
say that you have been sexually harassed.”  Titled “ 678 ” -- the Cairo bus line that one of the female
protagonists rides every day -- the film is showing in theaters
at a time when attention is elsewhere. An increasing number of
women joined protests in recent weeks.  “I was convinced that it should be a man who talks about
this subject,” said the director. “Women’s organizations in
the Arab world do not have credibility, and are believed to be
biased.”  Even so, Diab met with objections from both men and women
each time he showed the script to potential production partners
-- until he spoke to the actress and singer  Boshra . When he told
her that he had written a short movie about sexual harassment,
she suggested that he turn it into a full-length feature film
that she would produce.  Harassment Sympathy  “I knew that the women who are being written about will be
happier,” Diab said, “while the men will take offense, as if I
am telling each one of them that he is a harasser. For almost 25
percent of the men, this movie was science fiction. They told me
I was exaggerating. There was a lot of sympathy from those who
believe in the cause of the movie.”  Actress Yara Goubran -- the veiled government clerk who was
sexually harassed on public transport in the film -- said she
was not deterred by the subject. The reaction she got was “very
positive.”  “I knew it would be shocking because of the fact that
sexual harassment is being talked about so openly,” Goubran
said in an interview. “But when we have a problem in society,
we have to talk about it in public. Women should know that
sexual harassment must not be tolerated.”  The movie comes as a report by the  Egyptian Center for
Women’s Rights  says 83 percent of Egyptian women and 98 percent
of foreign women are being exposed to harassment on the street
and public transport.  “One of the best reactions I encountered was at the movie
theater,” said Diab. “When the film screening ended, men made
space for women to let them pass -- whether out of fear or
respect -- instead of going out in a stampede.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at   ogalal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 