-- 
Egypt Army May Answer Demands This Week, Group Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-02-14T20:45:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/egypt-army-may-answer-demands-this-week-group-says-update1-.html
The Egyptian army, which assumed
power following President  Hosni Mubarak ’s resignation on Feb.
11, told protesters it will respond to their demands by the end
of the week, Ahmed Maher, a co-founder of the Six of April
movement said today.  The Six of April movement is part of the Revolution’s Youth
Coalition, the group that helped to organize the street protests
that started Jan. 25 and ended with Mubarak’s ouster. Maher, who
attended yesterday’s meeting, declined to say who represented
the military at the talks.  “We told them that if by Friday our demands were not met,
we will resume the revolution,” Maher said today in a telephone
interview from Cairo.  The coalition called for the suspension of the
demonstrations, and threatened to ask people to re-occupy Tahrir
Square, the center of the anti-government demonstrations, where
protesters were camping for two weeks, and resume the
demonstrations if their demands aren’t met by Feb. 18.  In the meeting with The Supreme Council of the Armed
Forces, the youth representatives said a timeline must be
provided by the military for the steps it will take in the
transitional period toward democratic transformation, Maher
said.  Transitional Government  The youths demanded a presidential council which would
consist of four civilians and two people from the army to
oversee a new transitional government, which would be formed
within “a few weeks,” to run the country until elections are
held in six months, Maher said.  The military council had said Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik’s
government, which Mubarak formed, would continue to run the
affairs of the government until a new one is formed, without
elaborating.  The military promised the youth coalition to release all
political prisoners before Feb. 18, after they separate people
held for political reasons from those who have criminal charges.  The military also promised to set a date for lifting the
state of emergency, in place since 1981, and allow for freedom
of the press, formation of political parties, freedom of
expression and the right of assembly, he said.    Google Inc . executive Wael Ghonim, whose detention made him
one of the faces of the protesters, said on Facebook Inc.’s site
that he was “very optimistic” after the meeting, in which he
also took part. Generals Mahmoud Hegazy and Abdel Fattah
attended the meeting for the army, he said.  ‘Friday of Victory’  The coalition called for a “Friday of Victory”
demonstration in Tahrir Square on Feb. 18 to commemorate the
people who were killed in the protests in clashes between anti-
Mubarak protesters and pro-Mubarak supporters and authorities.
About 300 people died, according to the  United Nations .  Some protesters are still camping in Tahrir Square, saying
they will not leave until the army provides a clear timeline for
implementing their demands. As the army was trying to empty the
square of protesters today, others joined, including a protest
by policemen who demanded former interior minister Habib El-Adli
to stand trial for the protesters’ killings.  To contact the reporters on this story: Maram Mazen in Cairo at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  