-- 
Obama Budget Shows Hunter S. Thompson Was Right: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-02-14T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/egypt-protests-hold-lesson-for-u-s-wastrels-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
The unveiling of the president’s
2012 budget today will show just how serious  Barack Obama  is
about  deficit reduction .  Freezing domestic discretionary spending for five years, as
Obama proposed in his State of the Union address last month,
isn’t going to cut it.  Non-security discretionary spending ,
which is subject to annual congressional appropriation, accounts
for a scant 13.9 percent-and-shrinking share of federal outlays.
The president and Congress are going to have to look elsewhere
and dig deeper if they want to put the U.S. on a sound fiscal
course.  The American public is all for smaller government -- as
long as it doesn’t affect their specific benefit. This
conflicted sentiment is borne out in various opinion polls.  Someone  once said  -- the quote is variously attributed to
Shakespeare, Jefferson, Hunter S. Thompson, among others --
people get the government they deserve. They were right. If the
public doesn’t demand a fix to the country’s long-term problems,
lawmakers aren’t about to make the tough decisions on their own
and threaten their chance of re-election.  In a Jan. 15-19  New York Times/CBS poll , 75 percent of the
1,036 randomly selected adults throughout the U.S. said the
federal deficit was a very serious problem. Twenty percent said
it was somewhat serious.  An excellent start.  Not My Benefit  Should we do something about it? More than half (56
percent) of the respondents said we need to take action
immediately. (Enthusiasm starts to wane when esoteric concept
meets reality.)  Next comes the “how to” question. Americans
overwhelmingly favor a reduction in  government spending  (62
percent) to an increase in taxes (29 percent).  Here comes the catch. Everyone knows that to cut spending
you have to cut where the spending is. Given a choice of
reducing federal outlays for Social Security, Medicare or the
military, the budget’s Big Three, guess which one Americans
prefer?  Bingo. The military (55 percent). We are all affected, now
or in the future, by reductions in retirement and medical
benefits for the elderly. Unless you happen to be one of the 2.2
million people who are on active military duty, in the reserves
or in the national guard, or are among the 545,500 civilian
workers that supported the Defense Department last year, or work
for the myriad of defense contractors and parts suppliers, you
are less apt to be concerned by cuts in military spending, even
if they threaten national security.  Punting on Proposals  Late last week,  news  started to trickle out (or, more
likely, was planted) about what would and wouldn’t be included
in the president’s 2012 budget. It won’t include any specific
proposals to fix Social Security, which paid out more in
benefits last year than it collected in taxes. (Thank goodness
the government has all that money stashed away in what  Al Gore 
called a lockbox to make up the difference!)  Social Security’s problem is one of demographics: an
increasingly large number of retirees have to be supported by a
relatively smaller base of workers.  Easy fixes for Social Security -- and they are easy,
according to experts -- include indexing initial benefits to
prices instead of wages; raising the  retirement age  to reflect
longer  life expectancy ; and means-testing benefits. But hey, why
stick your neck out when the Republicans haven’t shown their
hand yet?  “If Republicans explained that cuts are inevitable once
discretionary spending is squeezed out by entitlements, people
would understand,” says Veronique De Rugy, senior research
fellow at George Mason University’s Mercatus Center in
Arlington, Virginia.  Ours to Lose  I suspect people already “understand.” What they don’t
get, or aren’t willing to accept, is that the only solution
short of crushing the economy with confiscatory tax rates is
benefit cuts.  There was a time when Americans accepted the idea of shared
sacrifice for the greater good of the nation. The government
didn’t fight wars and lower  taxes  at the same time. It didn’t
waste money on programs whose cost exceeded the benefit. And it
didn’t grant a tax break to any special interest group willing
to pay for it.  Ninety-five percent of Americans in the  New York  Times/CBS
News poll said the federal deficit is a problem. Parents readily
concede they don’t want to saddle their children with a legacy
of debt.  Yet when it comes to what each of us is willing to do to
fix what most of us admit is a problem, we look the other way.  In  Egypt , it took 18 days of mostly peaceful protests to
bring about the end to a 30-year autocratic regime. Surely the
American public, under no threat of torture, imprisonment or
death, can assert itself to get our government to crunch some
budget numbers and get them to balance.  One of the authors of the above-cited quote said it best.
(Hint: It wasn’t Hunter Thompson.)  “The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars but in
ourselves.”    Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  