-- 
Egypt-Inspired Protesters Battle Security Forces in Bahrain, Yemen, Iran

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 
2011-02-15T00:05:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/egypt-inspired-protesters-battle-police-in-bahrain-yemen-iran.html
Demonstrators clashed with security
forces in Bahrain, Yemen and  Iran  yesterday, emboldened to
challenge ruling regimes by the success of Egypt’s populist
uprising against President  Hosni Mubarak .  Bahraini riot police fired tear gas to break up protests
across the island nation, and one man reportedly was shot dead
by police, as demonstrators demanded more political freedom and
jobs. Yemeni protesters announced plans for a fifth day of
demonstrations after thousands gathered yesterday at Yemen’s
Sanaa University to demand President Ali Abdullah Saleh step
down, clashing with police and pro-government demonstrators who
hurled stones and wielded clubs.  In Tehran, thousands of security officers were deployed to
stop separate groups of demonstrators, rallying throughout the
city, from converging on the central Azadi Square, al-Jazeera
said. The Iranian authorities have cheered the downfall of
Mubarak, who positioned  Egypt  as a political and military
counter-balance to Tehran’s influence, while at the same time
cracking down on domestic opponents inspired by events in Cairo.  “Each country has its own unique circumstances,” said
Alireza Nader, an international policy analyst at the Rand
Corporation’s Washington office and a former Middle East
specialist at the U.S. Treasury Department. “But whether it’s
Persian Iran or Arab Yemen or Bahrain, all those countries are
vulnerable to social unrest.”  Oil Region  The anti-regime turmoil is entering a new stage as it moves
from the Arab world’s most populous nation to the Persian Gulf
region, an area of vital importance to the U.S. and other
industrialized nations because it holds more than 50 percent of
the world’s oil reserves.  The regional uncertainties were reflected in the cost of
insuring debt sold by the government of Bahrain, which rose 11
basis points yesterday to 248, the highest since Feb. 4,
according to CMA prices for credit-default swaps. Still, oil
tumbled in New York to the lowest level since November amid an
abundance of fuel in the U.S. and as tensions eased in Egypt.
Crude oil for March delivery fell 77 cents to settle at $84.81 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the lowest level
since Nov. 30.  Shock Waves  The Arab world has been shaken over the past two months by
anti-government demonstrations over economic hardship and
corruption that drove Tunisian President Zine el Abidine Ben Ali
from office on Jan. 14 and forced Mubarak to resign and cede his
presidential powers to Egypt’s armed forces on Feb. 11.  “The one I’d be focusing the most on is Iran,” Stephen
Hadley, who was President  George W. Bush ’s national security
adviser, said on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.”  “They made a run at getting more freedom in 2009; it was
brutally put down. I think the Iranians are thinking that if the
Egyptian people can have more say in their future, why not we
the great Iranian people,” he said.  In Algeria, where opposition leaders are planning further
protests after violent clashes Feb. 12 in Algiers, Minister of
Foreign Affairs Mourad Medelci told Europe 1 the government may
lift a 19-year-old state of emergency in the next few days.
President Abdelaziz Bouteflika said on Feb. 3 that
demonstrations, banned under the state of emergency since 1992,
would be permitted, except in the capital, according to the
state-run  Algeria  Presse Service.  Facebook Protests  A group called “the Revolution of 14th February in
Bahrain” used Facebook to promote the protests yesterday and
has more than 13,400 followers on the social-networking website.
The date marks the anniversary of the establishment in 2002 of a
second constitution, which provided an elected parliament in
Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, and made the
kingdom a constitutional monarchy.  “Bahrain, of any Gulf state, is the most susceptible
because of the deep grievances of the majority Shiite
population” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the
Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis.
“The Shiite population is excluded from many types of
government employment and municipal services in Shiite villages
are below standards in other Sunni neighborhoods.”  Protesters and police battled into the night in the alleys
of Diraz, on the northwest coast. Shiite Muslim protesters threw
rocks and built barricades of wood and cement blocks, while
police fired tear gas and sound grenades.  Tear Gas  “We were starting our peaceful protests when riot police
attacked us with tear gas,” Nabeel Rajab, head of the Bahrain
Center for Human Rights, said in an interview after the protest
in Bani Jamrah was dispersed. “We will continue our protests
until the government hears our demand.”  A man was shot dead by police during the protests, said
Matar Ebrahim Ali Matar, an al-Wefaq party member on the Council
of Representatives. Earlier yesterday, residents of the Shiite
Muslim village of Nuweidrat said clashes broke out between
activists and police after morning prayers.  Bahraini Shiites, who represent between 60 and 70 percent
of the population, say they face job and housing discrimination
by the government. Bahrain’s royal family has close ties with
Sunni-ruled Saudi Arabia, the largest Arab economy. Many among
Bahrain’s populace retain cultural and family links with Shiite-
dominated Iran,  Saudi Arabia ’s main regional rival.  Deep Pockets  King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa, who is Sunni, ordered an
increase in food subsidies and social welfare payments as the
government sought to ease the burden of rising food prices, the
Bahrain News Agency said Feb. 3. He also ordered the payment of
1,000 dinars ($2,653) to each Bahraini family.  In Yemen, an impoverished nation at the southern tip the
Arabian Peninsula, protesters yesterday continued to press their
demand that Saleh, 68, who has ruled for 32 years, step down.
His recent promise not to run for re-election when his term is
up in 2013 has not slowed the opposition.  They chanted “Down, down with Ali, long live Yemen” as
police formed a human shield to keep crowds from spreading. At
least 17 people were injured and 165 detained in Sanaa, Xinhua
news agency reported, citing witnesses. Ghazi al-Samee, 31, one
of the protesters in the southwestern city of Taiz, said eight
people were injured yesterday and that more than 30 people were
arrested.  Unlike Bahrain, the Yemen government can’t afford to try to
buy calm by offering economic benefits. Yemen faces serious
water shortages, declining oil output and a society where more
than half the population of 23 million is under 20 years old.
About 40 percent of Yemen’s population lives on less than $2 a
day.  Iran Crackdown  Iran’s Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  ordered a crackdown on the 2009 protests that left
dozens dead and thousands in jail.  Iranian opposition groups, who accuse Khamenei and
Ahmadinejad of resembling the ousted Arab leaders in their
defiance of popular demands, were met yesterday with tear gas
and baton charges when they held a rally in Tehran yesterday in
solidarity with the regime-changers in Egypt, al-Jazeera
television said. There were tens of thousands of protesters, the
first major show of strength by the opposition in a year,
according to the  Associated Press .  Mir Hossein Mousavi, a candidate beaten by Ahmadinejad in
the 2009 presidential election who then backed mass protests
against the result, has had his phone lines cut and police
vehicles blocking his street in the past two days, opposition
website Kaleme said.  Solidarity  While Iran’s state television broadcast historical footage
from the Islamic revolution intercut with scenes from the Cairo
protests, opposition leaders saw an opportunity to renew their
attack on Ahmadinejad and Khamenei. They applied to hold a rally
“to express solidarity with the people’s movement in the region
against their oppressive regimes.”  Iran’s judiciary warned that such a demonstration would be
seen as a “political act” requiring counter-measures by
authorities. Mousavi and Mehdi Karrubi, another leader of the
2009 protests, have underlined a parallel between the Egyptian
uprising and the one they led.  It’s clear the government hasn’t been able to quell the
opposition, said Nader, a former research analyst at the Center
for Naval Analyses.  “The protests in Iran definitely show that the Green
Movement is not dead yet,” Nader said. “There’s still a lot of
pent-up frustration and demands in Iran.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  