-- 
Microsoft Egypt Head Says IT Can Be ‘Powerful Force’ for Change

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-02-14T13:32:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/egypt-should-embrace-internet-savvy-youth-for-change-microsoft-head-says.html
Egypt’s transitional government
should exploit its “Internet savvy” youth who helped spearhead
the country’s popular revolution to foster economic and social
reforms, the head of  Microsoft Corp .  Egypt  said.  “The past couple of weeks showed the power” of
information and communications technologies, Ayman Abdellatif,
general manager for Microsoft Egypt, said in an interview today.
“We need to ask how we can leverage ICT to create dialogue
between the government and the people.”  Pro-democracy groups used social networking sites such as
 Facebook  and  Twitter  to help mobilize mass protests, leading to
the toppling of  Hosni Mubarak , Egypt’s president of 30 years, on
Feb. 11. The government had blocked  Internet service  for almost
a week and mobile-phone services run by local units of  Vodafone
Group Plc  and  France Telecom SA  were also temporarily halted in
the early days of the revolt.  “You have a huge portion of the population that is
Internet savvy,” said Abdellatif. “That’s a powerful force.”  Abdellatif said there is potential for  job creation  by
making many government services, including elections, available
online. Egypt plans to enact a “massive and realistic”
employment program that will aim to create as many as 700,000
jobs a year, Finance Minister Samir Radwan said today.  The Mubarak-appointed government, now running the country
under military oversight pending elections, is forecasting
slower growth and promising a stimulus plan to address the
economic complaints of the demonstrators, such as high
unemployment.  Slowdown  Microsoft Egypt doesn’t expect any layoffs as a result of
the economic slowdown, Abdellatif said. The company employs 250
people at its office in Smart Village, a park outside of Cairo
that’s dedicated to ICT industries. He expects revenue to take a
hit in the first and second quarters.  “We have been negatively impacted as far as revenue goes
in Q1 and we expect to be negatively impacted in Q2,” he said,
saying the situation is too unclear to provide specific figures.
“It will take some time for the economy to pick up. It won’t be
overnight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivian Salama in Dubai at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 