-- 
Egypt Constitution Suspended, Parliament Dissolved, Military Council Says

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m ,   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   A h m e d   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-02-14T17:03:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/egyptian-military-says-protests-harming-the-economy-may-threaten-security.html
Egypt’s army urged people to return
to daily life, saying protests that have persisted after the
resignation of President  Hosni Mubarak  last week are hurting the
economy and threaten to weaken security.  “Some sectors of the state have been organizing protests
despite the return of normalcy,” the military said in a
statement read on state-run television. “Honorable Egyptians
see that these protests at such a critical time lead to negative
implications.”  The army yesterday dissolved parliament and suspended the
constitution, meeting demands made by the opposition movement
that forced Mubarak from office, and said it will rule Egypt
until elections are held. Finance Minister Samir Radwan said
yesterday that more than two weeks of unrest cost the economy
$310 million a day, as tourists shunned the country and
borrowing costs rose.  The departure of Mubarak, whose ruling party banned strikes
unless approved by the official labor federation it dominated,
has unleashed a wave of worker demands for higher pay and
measures to counter corruption.  The central bank ordered banks to shut today due to
protests by employees at lenders including the Principal Bank
for Development and Agricultural Credit. Workers at the Public
Transport Authority have been on strike since Wednesday,
demanding pay rises.  ‘Where’s the Money?’  Five buses drove past Tahrir square to the state-television
building, with transport workers inside chanting “Where is the
authority’s money?”  Mohamed Abdel-Megeed, 58 and a father of ten, said he makes
538.5 Egyptian pounds ($92) a month, and has to work two jobs to
make ends meet. “How can I feed my children, pay rent and all
my other expenses with this salary?” he said in front of the
state television building, where hundreds of drivers were
protesting.  The army blocked people from joining the remaining
protesters in Tahrir this morning, and said in the statement
that it is urging “citizens, professional and labor unions to
play their roles” in allowing business life to resume.  Yields on  Egypt ’s dollar bonds maturing in 2020 rose 3
basis points to 6.37 percent at 5:30 p.m. in Cairo. While that’s
below last month’s record peak of 7.2 percent, it’s more than 1
percentage point higher than the start of the year, on concern
that  government spending  to placate protesters will strain
public finances.  ‘Massive and Realistic’  Finance Minister Samir Radwan today promised a “massive
and realistic” unemployment program, aiming to create as many
as 700,000 jobs a year, to address the scarcity of jobs that is
one of the main economic complaints voiced by the opposition.  Radwan, speaking in an interview with Bloomberg television,
said the measures may add to Egypt’s budget deficit. He
predicted a gap of 8.4 percent of economic output this year,
compared with the 7.9 percent forecast before the crisis.  Standard & Poor’s  said in a Feb. 1 report that spending to
alleviate unrest may push the deficit above 10 percent.  Egypt has paid the highest borrowing cost for two years in
debt auctions this month, with three-month bills auctioned
yesterday at an average yield of 10.95 percent.  Egypt’s benchmark stock index tumbled 16 percent in the
week through Jan. 27, before the bourse suspended trading. The
stock market, which was scheduled to reopen Feb. 16, will now
remain closed for the rest of this week and resume “when banks
return to normal operation,” said Hisham Turk, a spokesman for
the exchange, in a telephone interview today.  Foreign companies in Egypt shut down operations during the
protests, and the visitors who represent one of the country’s
key sources of foreign currency stayed away. That cost Egypt
about $1.5 billion of tourism revenue, according to Central Bank
Governor Farouk El-Okdah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net . 