-- 
Elop, Ballmer Give Nokia-Microsoft Accord Hard Sell in Barcelona

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-02-14T23:10:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/elop-ballmer-give-nokia-microsoft-accord-hard-sell-in-barcelona.html
  Nokia Oyj  Chief Executive Stephen Elop tried yesterday in Barcelona to defend his decision to join
forces with  Microsoft Corp ., a move that’s wiped 5.7 billion
euros ($7.7 billion) off the company’s market value in two days.  Making a surprise appearance during a presentation by
Microsoft CEO  Steve Ballmer  at the Mobile World Congress, Elop
sought to portray the challenge of winning back ground lost by
the Finnish company to  Apple Inc .’s iPhone and handsets based on  Google Inc .’s Android software as “a war of ecosystems.” Elop
announced on Feb. 11 that Nokia would make Windows Phone 7 its
primary mobile-phone platform, replacing its home-grown Symbian.  Elop’s claim on the previous day that the company will get
“billions ” in benefits from its partnership with Microsoft did
little to stem the slide in Nokia’s stock. He and Ballmer
yesterday tried to show they would be the “the most operator-
friendly” choice. Analysts remain skeptical.  “The decision to transition its smartphone portfolio to
Microsoft Windows Phone is a risky one for Nokia,” said Alex
Spektor, an analyst at Strategy Analytics Inc. “As Nokia
transitions its smartphone portfolio to an entirely different
platform, there is a risk that previously loyal Nokia consumers
might abandon the vendor, hurting Nokia’s previously colossal
smartphone volumes in the long term.”  Nokia’s shares, which fell 14 percent on Feb. 11, tumbled
5.3 percent in Helsinki yesterday, closing at 6.63 euros, the
lowest level in seven months.  First Device  Delivery of “even a single Windows Phone 7 device” in
time for the Christmas shopping season will be difficult for
Nokia, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst Rod Hall wrote in a report.
“For a substantial change like this, it’s imperative that the
first device is declared a success in the marketplace.”  Elop promised to listen to mobile operators’ concern about
the growing dominance of Apple and Google mobile platforms.
Mobile operators’ discontent with Google and Apple, whose
software accounted for about 53 percent of smartphone sales
worldwide last year, is rising.  France Telecom SA,  Telecom Italia SpA , and Telefonica SA
executives have complained that traffic generated by the U.S.
companies is overwhelming their networks, and are looking for
ways to increase revenue with their own applications. Creating
“the best place for operators to add value” will be a priority
for the Microsoft-Nokia alliance, Ballmer said.  ‘Non-Event’  Since Elop, a former Microsoft executive, took over as CEO
in September, Google’s Android software has passed Nokia’s
Symbian as the most popular smartphone operating system,
according to analysis of shipments by research firm IDC.  While the Microsoft software offers many features, selling
the phone frequently means overcoming initial consumer
skepticism, Telstra Corp. Ltd. CEO  David Thodey  said in an
interview in Barcelona.  Windows Phone 7 devices have accounted for about 7 to 8
percent of new sales at  Australia ’s largest phone company since
they were introduced late last year, he said.  Windows Phone also lags far behind Apple and Google’s
respective operating systems in the number of mobile
applications available, limiting its exposure to what Booz & Co.
estimates will be a $40 billion market by 2014.  About 8,000 apps are currently available for Windows Phone
7, which began sales late last year, Ballmer said yesterday. By
comparison, about 130,000 apps are available for Android and
more than 300,000 for Apple’s iOS.  Other device-makers, who apart from Apple are
overwhelmingly choosing Google’s Android for new devices, are
downplaying the significance of the Nokia-Microsoft deal.  The alliance is “almost a non-event” for Motorola
Mobility Inc., which is unveiling new devices based on Android,
senior vice-president Alain Mutricy said in an interview. “It
sends a very strong signal to the market that Nokia doesn’t
expect to have very competitive products in the short term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in  Barcelona  via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  