-- 
Telstra CEO Says 4G Plan Won’t Conflict With Australian Network

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-02-14T18:10:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/telstra-ceo-says-4g-plan-won-t-conflict-with-australian-network.html
Telstra Corp.’s plans for a fourth-
generation wireless broadband system don’t conflict with the
rollout of Australia’s fixed-line National Broadband Network,
Chief Executive Officer  David Thodey  said.  Telstra, Australia’s largest phone company, announced plans
yesterday to build the 4G network with Ericsson AB. It sees the
two plans “as truly complementary, and we’re going to keep
pushing it that way,” Thodey said in an interview in Barcelona
today. “We’re more focused on driving both wireless takeup and
fixed takeup; we really do honestly believe they can co-exist.”  Telstra reached a preliminary agreement with the government
in June to hand over its fixed-line network to the state-backed
NBN in exchange for A$11 billion ($11 billion) in compensation.
The planned A$43 billion government-owned network is a source of
political disagreement, with the opposition Liberal-National
coalition pledging in last year’s parliamentary elections to
scrap the plan in favor of a scaled-down version.  The spread of increasingly rapid mobile connections --
which could reach 42 megabits per second in some areas under
Telstra’s 4G plan -- could have “significant long-term
implications” for the success of the NBN if large numbers of
users forgo fixed connections, consulting company Greenhill
Caliburn said in a report for the government published
yesterday.  Still, even the fastest wireless networks “will never be
the speed of fiber,” which will limit the number of mobile-only
households, Thodey said.  Telstra will have to join rivals in leasing access to
infrastructure from the NBN once it transfers control of its
fixed-line network to the government. The national network plans
to connect to 93 percent of  Australia ’s population by 2018.  Melbourne-based Telstra has been cutting prices for
wireless broadband to tap demand for  Internet access  through
Apple Inc. iPads and other tablet computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Barcelona via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 