-- 
Energy Drink Ingredients Provide No Health Benefit and Make Children Sick

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-02-14T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/energy-drink-ingredients-may-pose-risk-to-children-study-says.html
Energy drinks  like Red Bull and
Monster Energy have levels of caffeine that may be harmful to
children who consume them often, a study showed.  Some of the ingredients in the drinks are understudied and
not regulated, according to a review of previous research and
surveys in the March issue of the journal  Pediatrics . Children
with diabetes, mood disorders and heart, kidney or liver
diseases may have reactions including heart palpitations,
seizures, cardiac arrest or even death, the authors said.  Nearly one-third of kids 12 to 14 years old regularly
consume these beverages, which contain caffeine, sugar and other
additives, said study author  Judith Schaechter , associate
professor of pediatrics at the  University of Miami . Of the 5,448
U.S. caffeine overdoses reported in 2007, 46 percent occurred in
those younger than 19, Schaechter and her co-authors said.  “Pediatricians need to be aware of the possible effects of
energy drinks,” said  Steven Lipshultz , a professor and chairman
of the Department of Pediatrics at the University of Miami
School of Medicines and a study author, in a Feb. 11 e-mail.
“Toxicity surveillance should be improved and regulations of
energy-drink sales and consumption should be based on
appropriate research assessing energy drink safety.”  Sales of energy drinks were $6.9 billion in 2009 compared
with $6.5 billion in 2008, according to John Sicher, publisher
and editor of  Beverage Digest . Sales for 2010 aren’t yet
available and are expected to be even higher, he said.  ‘Safe to Consume’  “Red Bull Energy Drink is available in over 160 countries
because health authorities across the world have concluded that
Red Bull Energy Drink is safe to consume,” said Patrice Radden,
a spokeswoman in  Santa Monica ,  California , for closely held Red
Bull GmbH based in Fuschl am See,  Austria . “Last year alone,
over 4 billion cans and bottles were consumed across the
world.”  Energy drinks and their ingredients are regulated by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration, she said in an e-mail.  A telephone call to  Hansen Natural Corp . in Corona,
California, which makes Monster Energy, was answered by a person
who declined to be identified and said she couldn’t comment on
the study.  Some energy drinks contain ingredients, such as cocoa and
 guarana , that may add caffeine beyond what’s labeled on the
drinks, wrote the authors of today’s study. Each gram of guarana
contains 40 milligrams to 80 milligrams of caffeine, they said.  Perpetuates Misinformation  Maureen Storey, senior vice president of science policy for
the Washington-based  American Beverage Association , said today’s
review perpetuates misinformation about energy drinks.  “When it comes to caffeine, it’s important to put the
facts in perspective,” she said in an e-mail. “Most mainstream
energy drinks actually contain about half the caffeine of a
similar size cup of coffeehouse coffee. In fact, young adults
getting coffee from popular coffeehouses are getting about twice
as much caffeine as they would from a similar size energy
drink.”  An 8.5-ounce can, or 250 milliliters, of energy drink may
contain from 50 milligrams to 160 milligrams of caffeine,
according to the  International Food Information Council
Foundation .  An 8-ounce cup of coffee has about 100 milligrams of
 caffeine , the Washington-based group said, while a 16-ounce cup
of Starbucks “Bold Pick of the Day” coffee contains 330
milligrams of caffeine, according to the company website. Eight
ounces of  Coca-Cola Co .’s Coke soft drink contains 23 milligrams
of caffeine, according to the company Web site.  ‘Increasingly Popular’  The researchers, led by University of Miami medical student
Sara Seifert, looked at scientific literature and reports by
government agencies and interest groups on energy drink use in
children and adolescents. They found that U.S. teens consume an
average of about 60 milligrams to 70 milligrams of caffeine each
day and some drink as much as 800 milligrams a day. Most of the
caffeine comes from soda, although energy drinks are “becoming
increasingly popular,” they said.  Caffeine, which can improve attention, also increases  blood
pressure  and causes sleep disturbances in children, the authors
wrote. It is unclear how caffeine and other additives in energy
drinks may interact with antidepressants and medicines that kids
take for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, they said.  A 2007 study presented at the American Heart Association
meeting found that energy drinks can raise blood pressure and
heart rate and probably shouldn’t be used by those with  heart
disease . Healthy young adults saw their blood pressure rise 5 to
10 points and  heart rate  levels increase 5 to 7 beats per minute
after consuming energy drinks, the study by researchers from
Henry Ford Hospital in  Detroit  found.  Late last year, the  American Association of Poison Control
Centers  began tracking energy drinks as a separate category of
caffeinated products, said spokeswoman Jessica Wehrman. So far
this year, U.S. poison control centers have received 331 calls
about energy drinks, with rapid heartbeat the most common
complaint. About one-quarter pertained to children ages 5 and
younger and another quarter involved those ages 13 to 19,
according to the data from the centers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  