-- 
Epic Seeks to Close $1.3 Billion Ukrtelecom Financing

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-02-14T10:54:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/epic-seeks-to-close-1-3-billion-ukrtelecom-financing-update1-.html
Epic Financial Consulting
Gesellschaft , the private equity group that helped  George Soros ’
Quantum Fund in eastern Europe, wants to complete financing for
its $1.33 billion acquisition of VAT  Ukrtelecom  by the second
week of March.  “It’s a full price and the banks are giving it a very hard
look,” Managing Partner Peter Goldscheider said today in an
interview from Vienna. “This is by far the largest challenge
we’ve ever had.”  Epic is currently in discussions with banks, said
Goldscheider, who declined to say which financial institutions
may provide funding. The European bank for Reconstruction and
Development, which said it might help with financing, has not
been contacted by Epic, the spokesman for the EBRD, Anton Usov,
said by phone from Kiev.  Ukraine’s sale of Ukrtelecom will be the largest state
asset deal since 2005, when the former Soviet republic sold its
biggest steel mill to  ArcelorMittal  for $4.8 billion.
Ukrtelecom’s sale has been put off for more than a decade
because of disputes between state agencies.  The government, which owns almost 93 percent of Ukrtelecom,
initially planned to sell the phone company in a Dec. 28
auction. Since Epic was the only bidder, Ukraine hired an
independent company to value Ukrtelecom. The proposed price for
Epic exceeded the minimum auction price by 75 million hryvnia,
according to the state fund.  ‘Adequate’ Pricing  “The price was Ukrtelecom is adequate, given the company’s
situation,” said Alexander Paraschiy, an analyst at Kiev-based
BG Capital investment bank. “The open question is financing but
I think that the deal will be completed. Since Epic is reported
to be close to Ukraine’s top political officials and
businessman, the current Ukrtelecom management will probably
stay in place.”  Epic said the Ukrtelecom takeover would amount to a
“landmark deal” for the group, which currently employs around
3,000 people in eastern  Europe . Shares in the Ukrainian network
operator, with 82,000 employees, may be listed or sold to
another investor, Goldscheider said.  “We’re looking at a three-year plan to take the company
forward under various scenarios,” Goldscheider said. ESU LLC,
Epic’s Kiev-based telecom services company, will help oversee
Ukrtelecom’s transformation, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  