-- 
Merck Wins First Fosamax ‘Jaw Death’ State-Court Trial

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-02-14T21:18:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/merck-wins-first-fosamax-jaw-death-state-court-trial-in-atlantic-city.html
Merck & Co. won the first of
hundreds of state-court lawsuits in which its Fosamax
osteoporosis drug is blamed for causing so-called jaw death.  Fosamax didn’t cause Alison Rosenberg, 67, of  Pennsylvania 
to develop  osteonecrosis  of the jaw, or ONJ, a jury in Atlantic
City,  New Jersey , found today. Merck previously won two of three
cases that went to jury verdicts in Manhattan federal court.  The jury answered “no” to the first question on the
verdict form: Was it more likely than not that Rosenberg had the
condition she claimed? The vote was 9 to 1. Because the first
answer meant victory for the company, the panel didn’t have to
answer three other questions.  Rosenberg had medical conditions that cause jaw problems
and took other medications that suppress immune systems, Merck
maintained.  “There’s no evidence of eight weeks of exposed, necrotic,
dead bone,” company attorney Christy D. Jones said Feb. 9 in
her closing arguments to the jury. “Ms. Rosenberg didn’t meet
the definition.”  People can develop ONJ “regardless of whether they were
taking Fosamax,” Jones said today after the verdict  “The evidence showed the company acted properly and that
Fosamax did not cause the plaintiff’s dental and jaw problems,”
she said in a statement.  Rosenberg’s lawyers said they were “deeply disappointed”
in the outcome and will decide whether to appeal.  ‘Hiding the Risks’  “We would have liked for the jury to find for Mrs.
Rosenberg so Merck would know that they can’t keep getting away
with hiding the risks of their drugs,”  Marc D. Grossman  of the
firm Sanders Viener Grossman LLP in Mineola,  New York , said in a
statement.  “We’re here because Fosamax killed part of Mrs.
Rosenberg’s jaw,”  J. Paul Sizemore  of El Segundo,  California ,
another of her lawyers, told the jury last week in his
summation.  As of Sept. 30, Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station , New
Jersey, faced about 1,180 Fosamax cases, including suits with
multiple patients, the company said in a November regulatory
filing. About 300 cases filed in New Jersey are before Superior
Court Judge Carol E. Higbee in Atlantic City.  In the one federal case Merck lost, a New York jury awarded
$8 million to the plaintiff. U.S. District Judge  John Keenan 
later reduced the award to $1.5 million. About 850 Fosamax cases
are before Keenan.  Seven Hours  The  Atlantic City  jury deliberated about seven hours over
two days, ending a trial that started Jan. 24.  Rosenberg used Fosamax for four years before developing the
condition in which bone tissue in the jaw is killed, according
to an earlier  statement  by her attorneys. Her husband, Herbert
Rosenberg, 69, also sued, for loss of consortium.  Merck had Fosamax sales of $691.5 million for the first
nine months of 2010, down from $814.9 million in the same period
the previous year, according to the regulatory filing. The drug
first faced generic competition in 2008.  Merck fell 25 cents to $32.82 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped
13 percent in the past year.  Two more so-called bellwether trials, which may point the
way to out-of-court settlements and will show each side the
other’s litigation strategy, are scheduled for this year in
federal court in  Manhattan . On Feb. 4, Keenan ordered the
parties to pick two additional cases for trial.  The case is Rosenberg v. Merck & Co., ATL-L-3644-08,
Superior Court of New Jersey (Atlantic City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Atlantic City, New Jersey, Superior Court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 