-- 
Merkel’s Permanent Euro-Rescue Plan Needs Opposition Backing

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-02-14T11:47:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/merkel-s-permanent-euro-rescue-plan-needs-opposition-backing.html
  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will need
opposition support in Germany for a planned permanent euro-area
rescue mechanism that aims to enroll private investors in future
sovereign debt crises, a parliamentary report showed.  As European Union governments work on the post-2013
successor to the 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) rescue fund,
constitutional lawyers in Germany’s lower house of parliament
have concluded that Merkel needs a two-thirds majority for the
measure to pass in a vote. The threshold is higher than the
simple majority in regular votes because it risks breaching
constitutional budget rules.  “The implications are massive for Frau Merkel -- I see a
huge wall to climb to get a majority and it may be one that is
just too high,”  Frank Schaeffler , a lawmaker with Merkel’s Free
Democratic Party coalition partner who commissioned the report,
said today in an interview.  The study “is explicit: beware
eroding parliament’s fundamental right to control the budget and
try to do so at your own peril.”  The report adds to Merkel’s headaches three days after she
lost Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  as the German front-runner
to become the next head of the  European Central Bank , and as she
prepares for two March EU summits that will determine  Europe ’s
response to the debt crisis that threatens Portugal and  Spain .  Facing elections in seven of Germany’s 16 states beginning
on Feb. 20, Merkel is already hemmed in by voter resistance to
further aid for indebted nations and a Free Democratic coalition
partner that refuses to contemplate changes to existing crisis-
fighting tools.  Germany , as Europe’s biggest economy, is the
largest country contributor to the rescue fund.  ‘Hardly Possible’  Amending the rescue fund’s remit means the parliament
ceding fiscal powers on a scale that it is “hardly possible to
foresee,” said the report. “Democratic legitimacy” for German
support “is that much higher the graver the risks for future
generations beyond the current legislative period.”  Merkel secured a commitment from fellow EU leaders in
December for a change to the EU treaty to provide for a
permanent rescue facility, known as the European Stability
Mechanism. She won a concession that investors will be made to
share in the cost of any future crisis on a case-by-case basis.  The government controls 332 seats in the 622-seat lower
house,  the Bundestag , enough to ensure legislation passes by a
simple majority. Yet a two-thirds requirement would need 83
opposition lawmakers to come on board to achieve the 415 votes
necessary to pass the law. The ESM would also need to be put to
the upper house, the Bundesrat, where Merkel lacks a majority,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  