-- 
Merkel May Stick With Bundesbank Tradition in Choosing Weber Replacement

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-02-14T08:03:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/merkel-may-stick-with-bundesbank-tradition-in-choosing-weber-replacement.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  may
stick with tradition and tap someone with Bundesbank experience
such as Jens Weidmann or Juergen Stark to run the central bank
after Axel Weber’s surprise departure, economists say.  Merkel’s office has said she will nominate a Bundesbank
president this week to replace Weber when he steps down on April
30. The search may focus on Weidmann, Merkel’s top economic
adviser, and European Central Bank Executive Board member Stark,
according to economists including Citigroup Inc.’s Juergen Michels and Holger Schmieding of Berenberg Bank. Merkel and
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  will make an announcement on
the post by Feb. 16,  Die Welt  newspaper reported.  Weber’s exit from the top job at the central bank of  Europe ’s largest economy may feature in euro-region finance
ministers’ discussions at a meeting in Brussels today as the
prospects recede of a German securing the ECB presidency after
Jean-Claude Trichet’s October departure. Unlike Weber, all
previous presidents held senior posts with the Bundesbank, its
predecessors, or one of the country’s state central banks.  “Merkel hasn’t had much luck with outsiders like Weber,”
said Michels, Citigroup’s London-based chief euro-area
economist. “Certainly Weidmann is on top of the agenda but I
also wouldn’t rule out Stark.”  Leading Candidate  Weidmann, 42, a former head of the German central bank’s
monetary policy analysis department, is a leading candidate to
replace Weber, Bild newspaper reported Feb. 9. Weidmann’s
closeness to Merkel is unlikely to compromise the Bundesbank’s
treasured independence, said Schmieding, London-based chief
economist at Berenberg Bank.    Germany  has a tradition of appointing officials to the
Bundesbank, including Karl Otto Poehl and Hans Tietmeyer, and
neither had difficulty defending the independence of the
Bundesbank,” Schmieding said. “Both Stark and Weidmann would
be excellent candidates.”  Poehl, a former finance ministry official, led the
Bundesbank from 1980 to 1991. Tietmeyer, an official in the same
department, was the bank’s president from 1993 until 1999.  Weber, 53, was a surprise choice when appointed by then
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder to replace Ernst Welteke, following
two decades in academia and a stint as one of the government’s
economic advisers. He will return to his professorship at
Cologne University by the end of this year, Bundesbank spokesman
Benedikt Fehr said on Feb. 12.  ‘Excellent Economist’  Weber said that a lack of “acceptance” among euro-area
leaders for his monetary policy views caused him to give up on
becoming the next ECB chief, according to an interview in  Der
Spiegel  published Feb. 12. He described Weidmann, one of his
former students, as an “absolute professional”  “Weidmann is an excellent economist,” Weber said. “In
any new office, he would live the job from the first day.”  Stark, 62, is in charge of the ECB’s economics department.
He has experience at the top of the Bundesbank which he headed
temporarily when Weber’s predecessor Welteke resigned in 2004
after accepting hospitality from Dresdner Bank AG and Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG. Stark is known as one of Europe’s most ardent
inflation fighters and as a finance ministry official he was one
of the architects of the rules designed to protect the euro.  “My money is on Stark as president and Weidmann may become
vice president,” when the current holder of that post, Franz- Christoph Zeitler, steps down in April, said Stefan Bielmeier,
chief economist at  DZ Bank  in Frankfurt. “Merkel will want
someone who can uphold the strong standing of the Bundesbank and
Stark has that.”  ECB Board  The Bundesbank’s traditional role is as a guardian of  price
stability . Runaway inflation gripped Germany in the early 1920s
after the government printed bank notes to finance crippling
World War I reparation payments imposed by the Allies. The West
German government created the institution in 1957 with the prime
responsibility of safeguarding the deutsche mark as the bedrock
of the country’s post-World War II recovery.  A move by Stark to the Bundesbank may hurt German
expectations for a post on the ECB’s executive board. The nation
could be left without any representation in the day-to-day
running of the institution should Merkel fail to push through a
German president.  That is unlikely to happen though “as Merkel would ensure
that Germany gets a seat on the board, either the presidency or
Stark’s current post,” Schmieding said.  Germany’s opposition Social  Democratic Party  wants former
Finance Minister Peer Steinbrueck to replace Trichet at the ECB,
Spiegel Online reported on Feb. 12, citing the party’s
parliamentary leader, Frank-Walter Steinmeier.  Sueddeutsche
Zeitung  said yesterday that Steinbrueck doesn’t want the job.  Klaus Regling, head of the euro area’s bailout fund, wants
to become president of the region’s new rescue mechanism and has
expressed his desire to the German government, Der Spiegel
reported yesterday, without saying where it got the information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net  