-- 
Heston Blumenthal’s Dinner Has Top London Chefs Abuzz: Review

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-02-14T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/heston-blumenthal-s-dinner-brasserie-has-london-chefs-abuzz-richard-vines.html
Dinner by  Heston Blumenthal  was
booked solid for three months before it opened on Jan. 31.  The Times of London asked the next day if it was the best
new restaurant in the world. On EBay, a reservation for
Valentine’s Day lunch drew a bid of 175 pounds ($280) for the
booking slot, not including food.  Chef Mark Hix said in  the Independent , “It was the best
meal I’ve had for at least two years.” The Sun, a newspaper not
noted for its coverage of fine dining,  carried a review  by Alex
James. “It’s the greatest show on earth,” the rock musician
wrote.  Don’t think I’m accusing others of over-egging the pudding:
I interviewed Blumenthal twice in the weeks before the opening.
You’d think once would be enough. After sampling dishes with him
and Ashley Palmer-Watts, who’s in charge in the kitchen -- I’ve
been back four times, dining with chefs Pierre Koffmann,
 Lorraine Pascale  and Mark Sargeant among others.  To say Dinner is the talk of the London restaurant business
would be an understatement. Chef Jason Atherton said that he
couldn’t remember a similar buzz and that he was glad he had a
gap before March 27, when he plans to open his own Pollen Street
Social. The question for the rest of us is: Should we believe
the hype?  No Tricks  The answer is yes, though if you go expecting a life-
changing culinary experience, you might be disappointed. Dinner
is not the Fat Duck, a restaurant where the creativity of the
dishes is matched only by the theatricality of the presentation:
One course comes with a magic trick, another with headphones.  Dinner, by contrast, is an up-market brasserie serving
historically inspired British dishes. Blumenthal introduced me
to a woman sitting at the chef’s table working on a laptop,
Camilla Stoddart. She’s his historical researcher. (That’s a
first.) Each dish is accompanied by the date of its invention
and a footnote detailing the source of the inspiration.  All this would just be a gimmick if the food weren’t so
good. You don’t need to know that Meat Fruit can be traced back
to about 1500 to realize that this is an exceptional starter.
It’s a boozy chicken-liver parfait encased in a mandarin jelly
that looks like a tangerine on your plate. The skin is slightly
mottled and the visual trick is completed with fake leaves.  Other standout starters include Rice & Flesh, a rich
saffron neo-risotto, with calf tail and red wine; and Broth of
Lamb, whose meaty aroma reaches you before you investigate the
slow-cooked hen’s egg, celery, radish, turnip and sweetbread
within. (Koffmann’s favorite, after Meat Fruit, was Salamugundy:
chicken with bone marrow and horseradish cream.)  Black Angus  Among the main courses, the meat dishes such as Black Foot
Pork Chop, Beef Royal and Wing Rib of Black Angus, pack the
biggest punch in terms of flavor: great produce expertly
seasoned. Sirloin of Black Angus comes with mushroom ketchup,
red-wine juice and triple-cooked fries. (Blumenthal is
developing a line of ketchups for Waitrose Ltd.: Historically, a
ketchup is a sweet-and-sour condiment that isn’t synonymous with
tomato sauce.)  The other dish not to miss is Tipsy Cake, a creamy brioche-
type dessert served with pineapples roasted on a spit driven by
a giant Ebel clock mechanism that’s a design feature of the
restaurant. (New York-based Adam Tihany, who also designed Bar
Boulud, has done a good job here, using natural materials such
as wood and leather to reflect the venue’s historical theme,
while adding quirks such as jelly-mold lampshades.)  Taming Madness  Some of Dinner’s dishes have been in development for years
but time and effort don’t necessarily result in great food.
Palmer-Watts has a lightness of touch and a technician’s skill
in harnessing Blumenthal’s wilder inspirations and translating
them into something that can be reproduced in a restaurant.  Service is noticeably fine -- good humored and efficient --
and Dinner has a real buzz, particularly in the evening, while
the daytime views of Hyde Park are a draw at lunchtime. The wine
list offers little choice at the low end, so it’s fortunate the
house option at 29 pounds is drinkable. Head sommelier Joao
Pires says he is adding lower-priced options.  Blumenthal and Palmer-Watts aren’t wacky scientists
experimenting for the sake of novelty or to shock. They’re
creative chefs who are expanding the boundaries of British
cuisine, in this case by digging deep into the past.  With the opening of Bar Boulud last year and the addition
of Dinner, the Mandarin Oriental is on a culinary roll. Don’t be
put off by the hype about Dinner. It’s worth the wait.  Dinner by Heston Blumenthal, Mandarin Oriental Hyde Park,
66 Knightsbridge,  London , SW1X 7LA. Information:
 http://www.dinnerbyheston.com/  or +44- 20-7201-3833.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? The set lunch is 28 pounds.  Sound level? Buzzy, 75-80 decibels.  Inside tip? Book early.  Special feature? Liquid-nitrogen ice-cream machine.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Ideal.  Rating? ****  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 