-- 
EU Delays on Bailout Blueprint Pose Euro Risk, Portugal Says

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-02-15T09:31:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/eu-to-double-rescue-aid-in-2013-sees-no-need-for-immediate-portugal-steps.html
Portuguese Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos criticized his euro-area counterparts’ foot-
dragging on a plan to end the debt crisis, saying delays risked
a new round of market turmoil.  “The discussions are taking longer than desirable and
delays and hesitations affect the  euro zone  and the
stabilization on the euro,” Teixeira dos Santos said in
Brussels today before a meeting of European Union finance
ministers. “Each country by itself cannot alone face the
challenges of this crisis. We need to do our job, but we also
need the community instruments for stabilizing the euro.”  The Portuguese official’s comments came after euro finance
ministers yesterday said they saw no need for immediate steps to
shield Portugal from the fiscal crisis and instead focused talks
on a plan that takes effect in two years. They decided that the
aid mechanism opening in 2013 will be able to lend 500 billion
euros ($675 billion), twice the amount in the fund set up in the
wake of  Greece ’s near-default last year.  “They only want to talk about the future, and not the
present,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group NV in
Brussels. “EU leaders seem to be trying to ring-fence the
current crisis and not address its pressing issues.”  Bonds in Portugal, Greece and  Italy  slipped for a second
day as Germany opposed a stepped up rescue effort until European
governments take fresh measures to bolster the competitiveness
of the 17-nation economy. The maneuvering pushed the near-term  crisis management  into the background.  Portugal’s 10-year yield rose 4 basis points to 7.46
percent today. The extra yield over benchmark German bonds, a
measure of investors’ doubts about  Portugal ’s fiscal health,
widened to 415 basis points, the highest since Jan. 7.  ‘Worrying’ Situation  “The situation on the sovereign-debt markets remains
worrying,” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said
after leading the meeting of European ministers yesterday. “The
Portuguese authorities did take effective actions. If this
action would reveal itself as not having been sufficient, other
measures will have to be taken, but I have no indications that
this has to be done in the short term.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the
“stable” situation in the markets enabled the EU to play for
time, sticking to a late-March timetable for measures to bolster
the current rescue fund and prevent future deficit overruns.  “The markets are so stable right now that it’s better not
to unsettle them with superfluous discussions,” Schaeuble said.  German Politics  Germany, the biggest contributor to last year’s 110
billion-euro rescue of Greece and 67.5 billion-euro aid for
Ireland, is under domestic pressure to hitch the rest of Europe
to Germany’s low-inflation, low-deficit orthodoxy.  With her party facing elections in seven of Germany’s 16
states this year,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is seeking to
reassure voters that Europe’s largest economy is getting
something in return for handouts to debt-strapped governments.  Merkel’s coalition allies, the Free Democrats, are trying
to counter a slump in the polls by opposing more generous
bailout terms or using the fund to enable distressed countries
to retire debt at a discount.  Backed by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , Merkel struck a
blow for German-style economic management with a Feb. 4 proposal
for a “competitiveness pact” including caps on wages and
spending as well as a extending the  retirement age . The
proposal, one of Germany’s conditions for expanding the euro-
support operations, was criticized for overlapping with policies
already pursued at the European level.  ‘I’m Not Sure’  “Almost everybody is in favor to improve competitiveness,
but what’s the way to do it? I’m not sure the Franco-German
proposal is the best way,” Finnish Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen said.  The pact will be aired at a special March 11 summit called
at Merkel’s bidding. Finance ministers may hold an extra meeting
on March 21 to prepare for a March 24-25 summit designed to
unveil a “global response” to the debt crisis, Juncker said.    Germany  has put the focus on getting the full potential out
of the temporary fund, known as the  European Financial Stability
Facility . While nominally worth 440 billion euros, collateral
rules that underpin its AAA credit rating limit the fund’s
lending capacity to about 250 billion euros.  The permanent fund will take effect in mid-2013, with its
size adjustable at two-year intervals. While there was no word
on how the EU will achieve the higher lending capacity,
Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said more of the burden
will fall on the bloc’s six AAA states.  AAA ‘Solidarity’  “All member states will be called on to make a
contribution out of solidarity,” Frieden said as the meetings
resumed today with all 27 EU finance chiefs.  As with the current mechanism, the  International Monetary
Fund  will kick in 50 cents for every euro from European
governments, under what EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  called an “unwritten understanding.”  German politics will complicate the permanent rescue
facility as well, after legal experts in the lower house of
parliament concluded yesterday that it will require a two-thirds
majority to win Germany’s endorsement. Merkel would have to fall
back on opposition support.  Finland’s politics also intruded. Katainen, a candidate in  Finland ’s April 17 elections, invited  Europe ’s conservative
prime ministers to a March 4 meeting in Helsinki to prep next
month’s summits. The socialist leaders of Greece,  Spain  and
Portugal were left out.  While European officials have said direct purchases of
struggling countries’ bonds in the primary market are likely to
be part of the current fund’s upgraded toolkit, other pieces --
such as Ireland’s plea for lower  interest rates  on aid -- have
yet to fall into place.  Rate Struggles  “The interest-rate facility is higher, is designed to give
a profit to other member states, and there is an issue about
whether the interest rate should be reduced to reflect the need
to have sustainability,” Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
said in Brussels.  The opposition in Ireland’s Feb. 25 election has made the
average 5.8 percent rate a campaign issue, promising to cut it
in case of victory. The EU might approve lower rates starting
next year, not for 2011, Rehn said.  It is “essential to respect” the arrangements for this
year, Rehn said. “Concerning outer years, there is more room
for maneuver.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Brussels at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  