-- 
Euro Drops Against Peers as Finance Ministers Rule Out Quick Steps on Debt

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-02-14T22:05:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/euro-falls-versus-yen-before-finance-ministers-meet-south-korean-won-gain.html
The euro dropped versus most of its
major counterparts, reaching the lowest level in more than three
weeks against the dollar, as European finance ministers ruled
out immediate steps to tackle the region’s debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency fell for the first time in more than
a week against the Swiss franc on speculation an attempt to
restructure WestLB AG, the German state-owned bank bailed out
during the financial crisis, is faltering.  South Korea ’s won was
the best performer among major currencies as Japan’s gross
domestic product fell less than forecast.  “It was a European-dominated news day, and the market is
second-guessing the amount of optimism it had priced in to the
euro,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at Schneider
Foreign Exchange in  London . “Germany’s WestLB is a big deal
because it could be indicative of what we may be dealing with in
banks across the  euro zone .”  The euro fell 0.6 percent to 112.40 yen at 5 p.m. in New
York, from 113.06 on Feb. 11. The shared currency depreciated
0.5 percent to $1.3489, from $1.3554, and touched $1.3428, the
weakest level since Jan. 20. The yen gained 0.1 percent to 83.32
per dollar, from 83.43. The euro slid 0.8 percent to 1.3084
francs in its first decline since Feb. 3.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters
today “stable” financial markets ease pressure for a boost in
the  Europe ’s 440 billion-euro ($594 billion) rescue fund.  “The markets are so stable right now that it’s better not
to unsettle them with superfluous discussions,” Schaeuble said
before European finance ministers met in Brussels.  Permanent Mechanism  The officials emerged from today’s session without
announcing immediate steps on the debt crisis. Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, said at a press conference the lending capacity for
the permanent stability mechanism to be established in 2013 will
be 500 billion euros and will be regularly monitored. European
leaders are scheduled to meet next month.  “They keep talking about the March summit, and that is
where things are going to get done, so no one is expecting
much,” said  Win Thin , head of emerging-market strategy at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York.  South Korea’s won gained as Japan’s gross domestic product
fell at an annual rate of 1.1 percent in the fourth quarter,
compared with a median forecast of for a 2 percent drop in a
Bloomberg News survey of 26 economists.  The won appreciated 0.5 percent against the dollar to
1,122.88, from 1,128.47.  India ’s rupee advanced 0.4 percent to
45.5050, from 45.6850.  Sterling Gains  The pound gained 0.7 percent to 84.10 pence per euro before
a report tomorrow forecast to show inflation accelerated,
reinforcing expectations the  Bank of England  will raise  interest
rates . Sterling rose 0.2 percent to $1.6039.  Chile’s peso gained for a fourth day after central bank
President Jose De Gregorio said his priority was fighting
inflation, rather than weakening the peso. The peso gained 0.7
percent to 469.45 per  U.S. dollar . The central bank said last
month it would buy $50 million a day to stem the peso’s gain.  The central bank probably will increase its benchmark
interest rate by a quarter-percentage point to 3.5 percent on
Feb. 17, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The euro declined earlier as Reuters, citing a person who
attended a meeting about WestLB, reported a German committee
failed yesterday to agree on a restructuring for the lender.  Not Just Periphery  “All of a sudden it looks like it’s not just Ireland and
the periphery that’s having issues, it’s  Germany  as well, though
it’s just one bank,” said David Watt, senior currency
strategist at Royal Bank of  Canada ’s RBC Capital unit in
Toronto. “People have this underlying sense that euro rallies
are to be traded and we’re seeing that play out today.”  The euro has gained 0.9 percent this year in a basket of 10
developed-nation currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. The best performer has been the
Swedish krona, which has appreciated 4 percent, and the worst
has been the Swiss franc, which has lost 3.9 percent.  Enda Kenny, leader of Ireland’s largest opposition party,
Fine Gael, said yesterday in an interview with the Dublin-based
broadcaster RTE that senior bank bondholders should share the
cost of bailing out the country’s financial system. He said a
new government would seek to renegotiate details of the
international bailout after national elections this month.  Greek government spokesman  George Petalotis  said in a
statement on Feb. 12 that demands for asset sales to raise as
much as 50 billion euros by 2015 to pay down debt were
“unacceptable.”  The nation joined  Italy  last week in opposing annual
numerical debt-reduction targets.  ‘Not All Well’  “Any time you have that type of stuff running across the
tape, the market takes that into consideration,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency sales desk at
Societe Generale SA in  New York . “They know that things are not
all well in the euro land.”  Canada’s dollar advanced against the euro for a third day
on speculation the Bank of Canada may raise interest rates
sooner than the  European Central Bank . The Canadian currency
gained 0.3 percent to C$1.3342 per euro, from C$1.3386.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  