-- 
Evergreen Falls After Investors Avoid Bond Exchange

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 
2011-02-14T23:09:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/evergreen-solar-disappointed-most-bond-investors-reject-exchange-offer.html
  Evergreen Solar Inc ., a U.S. maker
of solar wafers, reached its lowest price in more than a decade
after investors shunned a bond exchange offer.  Evergreen shares fell 5 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $2.15 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Earlier they dropped to $2.09, the
lowest intra-day price since November 2000.  Investors agreed to exchange $45.4 million of the Marlboro,
Massachusetts-based company’s notes maturing in 2013 for new
notes due seven years later, a “disappointing” 23 percent of
the $200 million sought, Evergreen said today in a statement.  Evergreen canceled another exchange offer for $165 million
of a different series of bonds due in 2015 because investors did
not agree to tender more than the minimum of $50 million before
the deadline expired on Feb. 11.  The company is shifting its focus, from making solar panels
in the U.S. to making polysilicon wafers in  China  that are then
used to make panels. It announced in January plans to close its
Massachusetts manufacturing plant this quarter because its
production costs are higher than its Chinese competitors.  Christine Hersey, an analyst at Los Angeles-based Wedbush
Securities Inc., said that declining prices for wafers will be a
challenge for Evergreen, and that the unenthusiastic response to
the bond exchange may hinder the company’s plans.  “It’s not clear to me how they’re going to raise the money
they need to become a competitive wafer supplier,” she said
today in an interview. Hersey has had an “underperform”
recommendation on the stock since September 2009.  Low-cost Wafers  “We are obviously disappointed that we were not able to
convince a larger number of our note-holders to accept our
offer, but we are still well-positioned to execute our strategy
of supplying the lowest-cost, industry standard-sized wafers to
the world’s leading solar module manufacturers,” Evergreen’s
Chief Executive Officer Michael El-Hillow said in the statement.  The company said in a presentation to investors in January
that it will be able to produce wafers at an average cost of 40
cents a watt this year, 27 percent less than the 55 cents a watt
it estimates for Chinese makers of conventional wafers.  “Instead of being on the nominal end as a panel supplier,
Evergreen is becoming a strategic supplier at the very front end
of the panel manufacturing process,” Michael McCarthy,
Evergreen’s director of  investor relations  and government
affairs, said in an interview today.  Focusing on lower-cost wafers may help the company end
almost three years of losses.  “For a company with extremely limited capital resources,
they were spread way too thin,” Timothy Arcuri, an analyst at
Citigroup Global Markets in  San Francisco , said in an interview
today. Arcuri upgraded Evergreen from “sell” to “hold” on
Jan. 12.  “The reason I upgraded is that now they are strategically
focused on the one area they have a competitive advantage,”
Arcuri said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Todd White in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  