-- 
Hewlett-Packard Acquires Vertica; Terms Undisclosed

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-02-14T21:31:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/hewlett-packard-to-acquire-vertica-terms-undisclosed.html
  Hewlett-Packard Co . agreed to buy
Vertica, adding technology that will help customers analyze
large and growing quantities of digital data.  The transaction is expected to close in the second fiscal
quarter, which ends around the last day of April, Palo Alto,
California-based HP said today in a statement. Terms of the deal
weren’t disclosed.  Vertica, based in Billerica, Massachusetts, provides
software that helps businesses pore through massive amounts of
information, said Shane Robison, HP’s chief strategy and
technology officer. Under Chief Executive Officer Leo Apotheker
and Chairman Ray Lane, HP aims to capitalize on the explosion of
data delivered via the Internet and data centers.  Under former CEO  Mark Hurd , HP had developed its own data-
analysis software, called NeoView. It never caught on. The
company informed customers Jan. 24 that it’s no longer actively
selling the software, said Michael Thacker, an HP spokesman.  The Vertica deal is important to HP in light of its lack of
success with NeoView, said  Jayson Noland , an analyst at  Robert
W. Baird  in San Francisco.  “This is a financially small acquisition, but
strategically meaningful,” Noland said today in a report. He
has an “outperform” rating on HP shares.  Groupon, Twitter  Vertica is used by more than 300 customers, including
Groupon Inc., Twitter Inc.,  Verizon Communications Inc . and  Bank
of America Corp . Founded in 2005 by CEO Andrew Palmer and Chief
Technology Officer Michael Stonebraker, Vertica had raised $23.5
million in financing as of Feb. 14, 2007.  Lane, then a general partner at Vertica investor Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers, served as a special adviser to
Vertica, the company said at the time.  In 2007 and 2008, HP sat on the sidelines during a wave of
acquisitions of data-analysis software makers that saw  Oracle
Corp ., SAP AG and International Business Machines Corp. make
multibillion-dollar deals. Oracle bought Hyperion Solutions in
2007 for $3.3 billion, while IBM bought Cognos in 2008 for $4.9
billion and SPSS the following year for $1.2 billion. SAP bought
Business Objects in 2008 for $6.8 billion.  Several companies in the industry remain independent,
including Teradata Corp.,  Informatica Corp ., MicroStrategy Inc.,
Tibco Software Inc. and closely held SAS Institute Inc.  HP fell 33 cents to $48.31 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have risen 15 percent
this year.  Cisco Systems Inc., the world’s largest network-equipment
company,  projects  that global Internet traffic will increase
fourfold through 2014 from 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 