-- 
Goldman’s Tourre Shouldn’t Face SEC Lawsuit, His Lawyers Say

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-02-15T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/fabrice-tourre-s-lawyers-say-sec-suit-should-be-dismissed.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s lawsuit against Fabrice Tourre should be thrown
out, lawyers for the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . trader accused of
misleading investors in a product linked to subprime mortgages
told a federal judge.  Andrew Rhys Davies, Tourre’s lawyer, said yesterday that
the SEC is trying to circumvent a U.S. Supreme Court ruling
issued in June, Morrison v. National Australia Bank, that limits
the reach of civil claims for acts occurring outside the U.S.  “The SEC is attempting to do an end run around Morrison,”
Rhys Davies told U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in Manhattan.  Rhys Davies said the amended lawsuit, filed by the SEC on
Nov. 22, should be dismissed because the transactions involving
collateralized debt obligations called Abacus 2007-AC1 occurred
outside the U.S. He argued that Tourre can’t be held liable
under U.S. securities law for such foreign transactions.  The SEC initially sued the London-based trader in April and
accused him of defrauding investors by not disclosing that hedge
fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the underlying securities for the
CDO and planned to bet against them.  After reaching a $550 million settlement with Goldman Sachs
in July, the SEC filed a new claim against Tourre in November
alleging that he gave the company “substantial assistance” as
it misled investors in a product linked to subprime mortgages.  Tourre’s lawyer said the transactions with the CDOs at
issue in the SEC’s complaint were overseas transactions with a
German bank and a Dutch bank.  ‘Private Contract’  “Here we have a private contract between English and Dutch
parties and under no interpretation of Morrison can that be a
domestic transaction,” Rhys Davies argued.  Lorin Reisner, a lawyer with the SEC, argued that the
transactions that are at the heart of the case occurred in  New
York , not overseas.  “Abacus was conceived, structured and marketed by Goldman
Sachs in New York,” he said. “Fabrice Tourre was sitting at
that desk in New York was primarily responsible for that
transaction.”  “Tourre and his Goldman Sachs colleagues sent out false
and misleading materials from his office in New York,” Reisner
said. “It does reflect the domestic nature of the
transaction.”  Tourre, who was in court, declined to comment after the
hearing, as did his lawyers and lawyers for the SEC.  Jones said she would issue a ruling at a later date.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-03229, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 