-- 
Fairholme Executives Resign From St. Joe Board on Governance Disagreements

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-02-14T21:56:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/fairholme-executives-resign-from-st-joe-board-on-governance-disagreements.html
  Bruce Berkowitz  and Charles M. Fernandez of Fairholme Capital Management LLC, St. Joe Co.’s
biggest shareholder, resigned from the developer’s board because
of disagreements over its nominating and governance process.  Berkowitz and Fernandez also withdrew their names from
consideration for election at St. Joe’s next annual meeting,
according to a regulatory filing today. They were named
directors of the Watersound, Florida-based company in December.  “It was clear to us we weren’t going to be able to achieve
anything further as directors,” Berkowitz said today in a
telephone interview from Miami.  “The only way we can be
effective is as shareholders.”  The resignation comes less than a week after St. Joe said
it hired  Morgan Stanley  to explore options to boost  shareholder
value , including a merger or sale. Fairholme, based in Miami,
owns about 29 percent of the developer and last week proposed
former  Florida  Governor  Charlie Crist  as a director.  The Fairholme executives said they would only be part of a
board “where the majority of the directors are committed to
shareholder value, pay for performance and effective corporate
governance,” according to an e-mail to the board included in
the filing. “We have concluded that the current board is not in
a position to propose such a slate of directors.”  Shareholders’ Best Interest  The resignations “are not in the best interest of all  St.
Joe  shareholders,” the company said in a statement today.
Berkowitz and Fernandez “substantially agreed” with the
business plan and approved the exploration of alternatives,
according to the statement.  “While there can be no assurance that any changes or
transaction will result from this process, we believe it is an
important step for the company,” the developer said. “The St.
Joe board has always been committed to strong corporate
governance, to protecting shareholders’ interests and to
creating superior results for the long term.”  The resignations were announced while St. Joe’s governance
and nominating committee was reviewing Fairholme’s proposed
nominees for the board, the company said.  St. Joe, northern Florida’s largest private landholder, has
been criticized by hedge fund manager  David Einhorn , who has
said the company needs to take “substantial” asset-impairment
charges. Einhorn declined to comment for this story.  In October, Einhorn said he had taken a short position in
the stock. Short sellers sell borrowed shares, hoping to profit
by repurchasing them later at a lower price and returning them
to the holder.  ‘Tremendous Value’  “I still believe St. Joe has tremendous value to unlock,
but you have to have the right people to unlock it,” Berkowitz
said. “I do not regret our St. Joe investment. I’m still quite
optimistic.”  St. Joe, which reports fourth-quarter earnings on Feb. 24,
has lost money for 10 consecutive quarters.  “You’ve got to stop the bleeding,” Berkowitz said, citing
executive compensation costs.  William Britton Greene, St. Joe’s chief executive officer,
had total compensation of $2.8 million in 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That year, the company reported a
loss of $130 million on revenue of $138.3 million.  As a shareholder, Berkowitz has the right to nominate
alternative board candidates in advance of St. Joe’s annual
meeting, as long as he agrees to pay the cost of publicizing the
slate, said  Nell Minow , editor for GovernanceMetrics
International, a corporate governance research firm in New York.  “He could also go to the annual meeting and nominate
someone,” she said in a telephone interview.  St. Joe’s annual meeting is scheduled for May 17 in Santa
Rosa Beach, Florida.  St. Joe fell 2.4 percent to $26.06 as of 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has gained 19
percent this year, compared with a 1.4 percent decline in the
36-member Bloomberg Americas Real Estate Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in  New York  at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  