-- 
FARC Frees One Hostage as Release of 2 Others Delayed

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-02-14T01:27:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/farc-frees-one-hostage-as-release-of-2-others-delayed-update2-.html
  Colombia ’s biggest rebel group freed
one policeman held captive in a jungle hideout while the release
of two other hostages also planned for today was delayed.  A Brazilian military helicopter bearing the  International
Red Cross  emblem arrived in Ibague airport in central Tolima
province after the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, known
as FARC, handed over policeman Carlos Ocampo in a secret
location. The plan to release Ocampo, who was kidnapped in
December 2010, was announced yesterday.  The release of Mayor Guillermo Solorzano, held since 2007
and soldier Salin Sanmiguel, seized in 2008, also planned for
yesterday and announced since December was “not possible” Red
Cross spokeswoman Maria Cristina Rivera said. Eduardo Pizarro,
the official that represents the government in the release
negotiation process, said that the FARC gave the wrong
coordinates of where the other hostages were located. Two
councilmen and a navy marine were freed last week.  The liberations come as the FARC, whose numbers have been
whittled by eight years of military attacks, called for talks
with the government. President Juan Manuel Santos earlier this
week criticized the FARC’s “double standards” after the rebel
group kidnapped two employees of  Smurfit Kappa Group Plc ’s
Colombia unit on Feb. 8, one day prior to the release of
councilman Marcos Baquero.  Unilateral Effort  “The FARC is sending a clear message it wants to start
moving toward peace talks with the government,” said Juan
Carlos Palou, an analyst at Bogota-based think-tank Fundacion
Ideas Para la Paz. “These releases are viewed not as an act of
generosity but as something the FARC has to do in order for the
possibility of a dialogue to even exist.”  The handovers, brokered by former Senator Piedad Cordoba,
who is banned from holding office because of alleged FARC ties,
are part of a unilateral effort by the FARC announced Dec. 8.
Two councilmen and a navy marine were freed last week. The drug-
funded group has said the releases are evidence it’s serious
about seeking a political end to almost five decades of armed
conflict. Cordoba today said she is seeking authorization from
the government to head out tomorrow at 6 a.m. New York time to
bring back Solorzano and Sanmiguel.  “To even consider the possibility of dialogue we require
decisive actions,” Santos said  on Feb. 7 . “They must stop
terrorism, kidnapping, drug trafficking, extortion and
intimidation. Colombians call for, demand, the immediate release
of all hostages.”  New Rescue  The FARC hold an additional  16 captives  -- including Jose
Martinez, kidnapped more than 13 years ago -- that it considers
bargaining chips to pressure the government into releasing as
many as 500 jailed FARC fighters.  The rebel group sometimes kidnaps for ransom and kills
hostages if troops approach their camps or attempt to rescue
captives.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  yesterday said the piecemeal
liberations have become an “absurd media show.”  His administration will “revise the policy of allowing
these drop-by-drop liberations,” said Santos. “The country
doesn’t want that and neither does the government.”  Colombia’s army yesterday rescued one of the two Smurfit
Kappa Group workers kidnapped earlier this week, Bogota-based El
Tiempo daily said, citing General Edgar Cely, head of the
nation’s armed forces.  More Attacks  The government’s policy of stepped-up attacks on the rebels
and paying informants has been central to challenging the FARC,
whose numbers have been reduced by more than half to about 8,000
since 2002, when former President  Alvaro Uribe  took office,
according to Defense Ministry data.  The FARC’s ability to maintain dozens of captives in jungle
camps has been hindered by the attacks, according to testimony
from former hostages including  Ingrid Betancourt , who was
kidnapped while campaigning for president in 2002 and rescued
along with 14 others in 2008.  The FARC, which is considered a terrorist organization by
the U.S. and the European Union, was founded in 1964 as a rural,
peasant, Marxist insurgency. Its founder, Manuel Marulanda, died
in 2008 of a heart attack.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  