-- 
Fed's Dudley Says Central Bank Stimulus Is Helping to Spur Economic Growth

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-02-14T17:11:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/fed-s-dudley-says-asset-purchases-are-helping-to-spur-u-s-economic-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President  William Dudley  said the central bank’s purchases of
bonds have made the outlook for the economy “considerably
brighter,” with growth likely to quicken this year and next.  “Several notable forces combined to encourage the
resumption of stronger growth,” including plans to purchase
$600 billion in bonds through June and “the lagged effects of
its previous measures,” Dudley said today in a New York speech.
Banks also “did begin to ease standards somewhat in the second
half of 2010,” he said.  Dudley, who said the central bank’s plan to buy $600
billion of bonds through June has “helped to ease financial
conditions,” is among Fed officials defending the central
bank’s decision last month to press ahead with its second round
of asset purchases in an effort to create jobs.  The so-called quantitative easing program, dubbed “QE2”
by analysts and investors, sparked the harshest political
backlash in three decades. Republican Representative  Paul Ryan 
of  Wisconsin , chairman of the House Budget Committee, last week
repeated his criticism of the purchases, saying they risk
creating asset-price bubbles and fueling inflation.  Quantitative easing was expected to work by improving
financial market conditions, not by creating more bank reserves,
Dudley said in response to audience questions. “Financial
conditions are much more accommodative than they were six months
ago,” Dudley said. The bond purchases seem to have been more
“helpful” than “harmful,” he said.  ‘Not Yet Well’  Dudley said that, while the economy is “healthier,” it’s
“not yet well” and needs to “grow at a considerably faster
rate than we have seen so far in this recovery” to bring down
the jobless rate.  “The economy is now cycling up in a pretty significant
way,” Dudley said in response to questions. “It’s important
for the economy to get a little more forward momentum” to have
businesses gain confidence about the economic outlook and
increase hiring, he said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in testimony before the
House budget panel last week that the  unemployment rate  is
likely to remain high “for some time” even after its biggest
two-month drop since 1958, to 9 percent in January. Joblessness
rose above 9 percent in May 2009, beginning the longest period
of unemployment at that level or higher since monthly records
began in 1948.  Conditions ‘In Place’  “I am happy to say that we believe the conditions are in
place for such higher growth in 2011 and 2012,” Dudley said.
Spending by businesses and consumers has increased, reflecting
increased optimism about the economy, and the extension of the
Bush-era tax cuts will also help support growth, he said.  “While the soft patch is over and the risk of a double dip
has subsided, the economy still faces headwinds as a result of
the aftermath of the financial crisis, the housing bust and the
high level of unemployment that still prevails,” Dudley said.
Banks may also keep credit conditions “tighter than normal” as
they try to improve their balance sheets and avoid credit
losses, he said.  “In short, viewed through the lens of the  Federal
Reserve ’s dual mandate -- the pursuit of the highest level of
employment consistent with  price stability  -- the current
situation remains unsatisfactory. However, we appear now to be
moving in the right direction,” he said.  By contrast to the national picture, the regional economy
“appears to have paused” in the fourth quarter, which was
“disappointing,” Dudley said. “Both nationally and
regionally, unemployment remains stubbornly high, but many
indicators suggest that conditions are in place for stronger
growth in the coming months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  