-- 
U.S. Banks Say Fed Should Scrap Proposed Debit Caps

-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-02-14T21:59:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/fed-draws-broad-and-deep-bank-opposition-on-durbin-debit-card-fee-rules.html
The Federal Reserve Board’s proposed
caps on debit-card transaction fees have drawn “broad and deep
opposition” from U.S. banks and payment networks and should be
withdrawn, according to an industry panel.  The Fed’s approach “misinterprets and misapplies the
Durbin amendment,” said a summary of a meeting between the
Board of Governors and the Federal Advisory Council dated Feb. 4
and released today by the central bank. “The results would be
extremely damaging to consumers, the U.S. payment systems and
financial institutions of all sizes.”  The Fed has proposed capping debit-card interchange fees
charged to merchants at 12 cents for each transaction, replacing
a formula that averages about 1 percent of the purchase price.  Visa Inc . and  MasterCard Inc ., the world’s biggest payment
networks, currently set interchange rates and pass the money to
card-issuing banks. The changes may cost U.S. lenders more than
$12 billion in annual revenue.  The council said the proposed rules would amount to
government-imposed “price controls” and discourage the use of
debit cards, the fastest-growing form of payment among U.S.
consumers. The Fed’s interpretation “goes well beyond the
requirements of the Durbin amendment,” it said.  Shares of San Francisco-based Visa climbed 1.1 percent to
$75.74 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. MasterCard, based in Purchase, New York, advanced 0.6
percent to $254.96.  ‘Market Forces’  U.S. Senator Richard Durbin, an Illinois Democrat who
pushed for the debit-fee limits as part of the Dodd-Frank Act,
defended the caps today in a letter to the  American Bankers
Association .  “It’s easy to see why banks and card networks set up this
interchange scheme,” Durbin’s letter said. “It is lucrative
for the banks, who receive tens of billions per year in high
fees that are not tempered by competitive market forces.”  A survey by the  Independent Community Bankers of America 
found that 93 percent of its members said they would be forced
to charge customers for services that are now free, the trade
group said today. Almost 20 percent of banks surveyed said they
would eliminate jobs or halt plans to open new branches, the
ICBA said.  The Federal Advisory Council is composed of 12 banking
industry chief executive officers, one from each Fed district.  Members include Joseph "Jay" Hooley of  State Street Corp .;
James Rohr of  PNC Financial Services Group Inc .; Richard Fairbank of  Capital One Financial Corp .; Richard Davis of  US
Bancorp ; David Nelms of  Discover Financial Services ; and Robert Kelly of Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  