-- 
Foster's Will Spin Off Wine Business as First-Half Profit Declines by 12%

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-02-15T06:45:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/foster-s-to-spin-off-wine-unit-as-earnings-drops-12-.html
  Foster’s Group Ltd .,  Australia ’s
biggest brewer, will spin off the world’s second-largest wine
business as it focuses on reviving beer earnings after first-
half profit fell 12 percent.  Shareholders will vote on the split in April to receive one
share in the new Treasury Wine Estates for every three Foster’s
shares they currently own, the Melbourne-based company said
today in a statement. Net income decreased to A$312.1 million
($313 million) in the six months ended December from A$355.7
million a year earlier, the Melbourne-based company said.  Foster’s is giving up on wine after a decade-long expansion
marred by more than A$2.5 billion of writedowns as competition,
a glut of grapes and a stronger Australian dollar hurt
profitability at the maker of Penfolds, Lindemans and Beringer.
The company, which rejected an offer worth as much as A$2.7
billion for Treasury in September, may attract takeover offers
once the breakup is complete, analysts at Citigroup Inc. said.  “The split is the easiest way of making sure that each
side is focused on their own business,” said  Theo Maas , who
helps manage about $5 billion at Arnhem Investment Management in
Sydney. “We are looking at a complete new team on both sides of
the business to take this forward.”    John Pollaers  will become chief executive officer of the
beer unit while David Dearie will lead Treasury after running
its Australian operations. Current CEO  Ian Johnston  will leave
the company.  Foster’s, whose brews include Victoria Bitter, was
unchanged at A$5.74 at the 4:10 p.m. close of Sydney trading.
The stock has risen 1.1 percent this year, compared with a 3.9
percent advance in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Sales Decline  First-half sales fell 6.7 percent to A$2.2 billion. The
company was expected to post first-half net income of A$353
million, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of six analysts. Sales were projected at A$2.2 billion, based on
three estimates.  Carlton & United Breweries, the domestic beer unit, posted
a 6.8 percent decline in earnings before interest and taxes to
A$453.1 million after cooler summer weather damped demand.  Carlton & United’s profit margin, which measures earnings
as a proportion of sales, narrowed to 37.8 percent from 38.5
percent a year earlier, the first decline in profitability since
2001.  Johnston, who will leave the company when the split takes
effect, said on a conference call today that Foster’s has no
intention of putting itself up for sale amid reports of
potential bids. The Times and Sunday Times last year reported
Foster’s may attract offers from international rivals such as  SABMiller Plc  and Asahi Breweries Ltd.  S&P Affirms Rating  The spinoff is likely to be completed in May, with Treasury
to have about A$200 million of debt and A$60 million of cash.
The rest of its liabilities will stay with the brewing business,
which will result in Foster’s having “negative net assets” as
the debt will be more than the value of its brands and goodwill.    Standard & Poor’s  affirmed its BBB rating on Foster’s, the
second-lowest investment grade, and said in a statement the
split won’t have an impact on its credit assessment.  Pollaers, who has run the beer unit since April, has
accelerated the rollout of new brews such as Fat Yak to offset
declining sales of Victoria Bitter, the nation’s top-selling
beer, with a goal of stabilizing Foster’s share of Australian
sales at about 50 percent.  The company is battling competition from smaller rivals
such as  Lion Nathan , a unit of Tokyo-based Kirin Holdings Co.
and Australia’s second-largest brewer, as well as a shift in
consumer tastes to sweeter, pre-mixed drinks.  Wine Profit  “The demerger confirmation opens the door to M&A, yet the
current macro and operational environment is not conducive to
bids,” Citigroup analysts led by Andy Bowley said in a note to
clients.  Wine profit from sales in Australia and  New Zealand  rose 7
percent to A$39.6 million. Profit from wine in  North America  and  South America  gained 24 percent to A$54.2 million while in  Europe , the Middle East and Africa wine turned to a loss of
A$500,000 from profit of A$12 million a year earlier.  Currency movements cut A$19 million off wine earnings. The
Australian dollar has advanced 13 percent against the U.S.
currency in the past year, the best performer among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Cost Cutting  Dearie aims to cut A$100 million of annual costs from
Treasury by the end of June by reducing expenses for packaging,
warehousing and bottling. He’s also targeting shorter production
runs for brands such as Wolf Blass to enable it to trim
inventory holding costs.  “Neither division seems to offer a huge amount of upside
in the short term,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional dealer
at IG Markets Ltd. in  Melbourne . “Beer volumes are and will be
under pressure and the wine business is being aided by stringent
cost-cutting measures.”  The Foster’s wine unit trails only  Constellation Brands
Inc . in revenue. Victor, New York-based Constellation agreed in
December to sell its Australian and U.K. operations to Champ
Private Equity of Sydney in a transaction valued at about A$290
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  