-- 
Freezing Mubarak Assets Shows How Switzerland Fights Image of Dirty Money

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-02-14T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/frozen-mubarak-assets-show-swiss-fighting-taint-of-dirty-money.html
Switzerland’s decision to freeze any
assets of former Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  was made
faster than anywhere else as the nation no longer wants to be
perceived as a place where dictators can stash money.  Less than two hours after Mubarak’s resignation was
announced on Feb. 11, the Swiss government said it blocked any
funds belonging to him and his immediate entourage to avoid
“possible misappropriation” of Egyptian state property.  “The old days are over,” said Theodore Greenberg, former
chief of the money laundering section of the  U.S. Department of
Justice . “No despot, no dictator or other kleptocrat will
easily be able to deposit dirty money. Switzerland as a favorite
place for criminal or blood money should be a thing of the past,
a topic for novels on  money laundering  or  James Bond movies .”  Switzerland, where about 27 percent of the world’s
privately held offshore wealth is managed, has tightened money-
laundering rules to curb the inflow of illicit funds. The nation
has returned about 1.7 billion francs ($1.8 billion) of
dictators’ assets to their countries of origin, more than any
other financial center of a comparable size, according to the
government’s  website .  The Mubarak decision follows the Jan. 19 move by the Swiss
government to block “tens of millions” of funds held by former
Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. The same day,
Switzerland seized the funds of Ivory Coast leader  Laurent Gbagbo  who refuses to cede power to  Alassane Ouattara , the
internationally recognized winner of elections.  “It can’t be that right on our doorstep certain people
misappropriate and pocket state funds,” Swiss foreign minister
Micheline Calmy-Rey told  NZZ am Sonntag  newspaper on Feb. 13.
“We need to make sure that no dirty money is being deposited.”  What Assets  The Swiss government is waiting for information from banks
on whether 82-year-old Mubarak has assets in the country,
according to spokesman Andre Simonazzi.  One third of the $1.5 trillion of assets held offshore by
Middle Eastern and African elites is in Switzerland, according
to research firm  MyPrivateBanking  in Kreuzlingen, Switzerland.
About $225 billion of the total has been illegally obtained,
said Steffen Binder, managing director at  MyPrivateBanking . He
declined to say what proportion of the illicit funds may be held
in Switzerland.  Swiss banking secrecy rules “essentially place a higher
value on the relation between bank and client than on
morality,” according to historian Peter Hug. The initial laws
that prohibited bankers from disclosing client information were
enacted in 1934. They have been weakened over the past two years
as countries, including  Germany  and the U.K., crack down on  tax
evasion  among their citizens.  Stolen Property  The Feb. 1 introduction of a law easing the rules on the
confiscation of dictators’ illegal possessions is a further sign
of Switzerland’s efforts, according to  Mark Vlasic , a professor
of law at  Georgetown University  in  Washington  and a former
member of the  World Bank’s  Stolen Asset Recovery Secretariat.  A day after the new regulation went into effect, the
government started a procedure to seize the assets of former
Haitian ruler Jean-Claude Duvalier. The legislation allows
countries to obtain the restitution of a despot’s funds even
without a conviction in a court of the home country.  Swiss money-laundering rules, revised in 1998, require
money managers to clearly identify clients and those who might
benefit from a transaction. Any suspicious transfer must be
reported to authorities, and the funds must be blocked.  Open Door  The legislation is stricter than in many countries,
according to Daniel Thelesklaf, the executive director at the
Basel, Switzerland-based Basel Institute on Governance. In the
U.S., the beneficial owner is often not known to the banks,
leaving the door open for money laundering, he said.  “France and Britain have done much less than  Switzerland ”
to get hold of assets from African and Middle Eastern dictators,
said Mark Pieth, a  professor of criminal  law at Basel University
and chairman of the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  Working Group on Bribery in International Business
Transactions.  Illicit assets of former leaders that were returned during
the past 20 years include $683 million from the  Philippines ’  Ferdinand Marcos , $93 million form  Peru ’s Vladimiro Montesinos
and $700 million from  Nigeria ’s Sani Abacha.  Even with the stricter rules, it’s often difficult to prove
that money in Swiss banks is of illegal origin, said Christof
Mueller, a St.Gallen, Switzerland-based lawyer, who specializes
in money laundering cases.  ‘Hotel Chain’  “Imagine an Arab leader’s brother-in-law who wants to
deposit $100 million in a Swiss bank and says he has earned the
money through his legally obtained stake in a hotel chain,” he
said. “If his papers are watertight, it’s next to impossible to
prove that he might have got the money through nepotism.”  It would have been difficult for Mubarak and his circle to
withdraw funds from Switzerland as the so-called country risk
rose immediately in  Egypt  with the mass protests, Mueller said.  “From that moment on, there was an automatic suspicion
that someone could try to flee Egypt,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  