-- 
LG Electronics Aims to Turn Mobile Business Profitable in 2011, CEO Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-02-14T12:31:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/lg-mobile-business-aiming-for-2011-return-to-profit-ceo-says.html
  LG Electronics Inc .’s troubled
handset division is targeting a return to profit this year as it
rolls out new products including smartphones capable of
recording 3-D images.  The mobile-phone unit is “doing our work, reducing costs
and raising revenue, and so we hope to accomplish that this
year,” division Chief Executive Officer Jong-Seok Park said on
the sidelines of a press conference in Barcelona. The world’s
third-largest handset maker today unveiled new designs for
tablet computers and high-end phones, including an update to its
flagship Optimus smartphone.  LG’s mobile-phone division last month reported a loss for a
third straight quarter after smartphone sales lagged behind
those of rivals  Apple Inc . and Samsung Electronics Co. The
company is betting on the Optimus devices, powered by  Google
Inc ’s Android software, to revive earnings.  The Seoul-based company is among a slew of device-makers
vying for attention in Barcelona, where competitors including
Samsung and ZTE Corp. are revealing new devices. Samsung last
night gave reporters a first look at updated versions of its
Galaxy S smartphone and Galaxy Tab tablet, both aimed at
rivaling offerings from Apple.  The Optimus One became LG’s first smartphone to sell more
than 1 million units in November, about 40 days after its debut,
according to the company. LG has also introduced a smartphone
equipped with a dual-core processor, which makes Web browsing
and gaming faster.  LG replaced its chief executive officer and overhauled
management last year after it posted a record loss at its
handset business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in  Barcelona  via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  