-- 
General Electric Is to Purchase John Wood Extraction Unit for $2.8 Billion

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-02-14T03:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/ge-agrees-to-buy-john-wood-group-well-support-unit-for-about-2-8-billion.html
  General Electric Co . agreed to buy
the well-support division of  John Wood Group Plc  for about $2.8
billion, adding equipment that helps extract more oil and gas
from mature fields to round out its offerings.  The transaction may close later this year, with the approval
of John Wood holders, GE said in a statement today. The
business, which also helps extract gas from shale, had sales of
$947 million and earnings of $166 million before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization last year.  GE has spent about $5 billion in the past five months on
purchases tied to the energy segment, including those like
Wellstream Holdings Plc to expand the oil and gas division. The
purchase largely completes acquisitions at the unit by giving it
submersible pumps, an area where the Fairfield, Connecticut-
based company expects growth, Vice Chairman John Krenicki said
in an interview.  “If you can get a percent or two more out of these giant
brownfields,” it can mean more from existing resources,
Krenicki said.  The key technology is pumps, such as the ones made by the
division, which have “changed the game,” he said. “We had an
opportunity and we jumped on it.”  GE Oil & Gas more than doubled revenue in five years to
$7.6 billion last year as Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt 
looks to faster growing and emerging markets to boost revenue
and earnings.  Energy Acquisitions  Wood Group plans to return $1.7 billion in cash to
shareholders, a regulatory filing said.  Krenicki, who oversees the  GE Energy  businesses, said
the company plans to “stick to our knitting” in acquisitions,
adding so-called bolt-on acquisitions in the $1 billion to $3
billion range.  The purchase today, if completed, follows the acquisition
of Wellstream Holdings Plc, the Hydril unit of Tenaris SA
purchased in 2008, and Vetco Gray Inc. in 2007.  GE Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt is spending a
discretionary cash pile of more than $20 billion annually,
increasing the dividend last year, adding buybacks and
restarting acquisitions including October’s $3 billion purchase
of Dresser Inc.  Acquiring the unit, which has about 3,800 employees, is
expected to bolster sales and earnings “significantly,” GE
said in the statement.  Gas-Turbine Discussion  John Wood, based in Aberdeen,  Scotland , bought PSN Ltd. in
December to create the world’s leading brownfield production-
services provider. Selling the support unit would help the
company pay down debt, Todd Scholl, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in  London , said Feb. 3.  GE and Wood Group have agreed to discuss an
arrangement within the gas-turbine sector, a Wood  statement 
said. If an agreement isn’t reached in 90 days or by the
time the acquisition closes, GE will pay Wood Group $50
million.  GE Energy Infrastructure provided $37.5 billion of the
parent company’s $150 billion in sales last year.  Last month, GE Energy bought Lineage Power Holdings Inc. to
tap demand for electricity management from a surge in mobile
computing as it expands alternative-energy offerings including
smart grid, wind and solar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne at   rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Joi Preciphs at 
 jpreciphs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  