-- 
GE Agrees to Buy $2.8 Billion Oil-Service Unit; Shares Surge

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-02-14T22:57:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/ge-spending-spree-adds-2-8-billion-john-wood-oil-service-unit.html
  General Electric Co . agreed to buy
the well-support division of  John Wood Group Plc  for about $2.8
billion, adding equipment that helps extract more oil and gas
from mature fields. Shares of both companies climbed.  The transaction may close later this year, with the
approval of John Wood holders, GE said in a statement yesterday.
The business, which also helps extract gas from shale, had sales
of $947 million and earnings of $166 million before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization last year.  GE had already invested about $5 billion in the past five
months on energy-related acquisitions, such as the agreement to
buy Wellstream Holdings Plc to expand the oil and gas division.
GE Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is spending a
discretionary cash pile of more than $20 billion annually,
increasing the dividend last year and restarting acquisitions.  “This is a nice bolt-on deal for GE that adds product
breadth in its oil and gas unit,” said  Joel Levington , who
follows GE for Brookfield Investment Management in  New York .
“GE’s recent deals, which have focused mainly on fold-in
transactions into the core infrastructure units is a reasonable
strategic component to its capital allocation plans.”  GE climbed 17 cents to $21.50 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. John Wood climbed 14 percent
to 652 pence in  London  trading, the biggest gain since November
2008 and the highest price since shares were offered for sale in
May 2002.  GE’s purchase price is about 17 times the well-support
unit’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, John Wood CEO Allister Langlands said on a
conference call today.  ‘Full Price’  That compares with a median multiple of 6.6 times ebitda in
21 global oil-field services acquisitions in the past two years,
according to Bloomberg data.  “GE will be seen as having paid a full price here, but
with this deal financed in cash, the deal will be accretive in
year one,” Nigel Coe, a New York-based analyst with Deutsche
Bank AG, wrote in a note to investors.  Revenue and cost synergies might add 1 to 2 cents per share
to GE earnings over a two- to three-year period, Coe said. He
has a “hold” rating on the shares.  The purchase largely completes acquisitions at the oil and
gas unit by giving it submersible electric pumps, which help
companies extract more from existing projects, an area where the
Fairfield, Connecticut-based company expects growth, Vice
Chairman John Krenicki said in an interview.  “If you can get a percent or two more out of these giant
brownfields,” it can mean more from existing resources,
Krenicki said.  ‘Jumped on It’  Technology like that of the Wood unit has “changed the
game,” he said, pushing GE to pursue the purchase. “We had an
opportunity and we jumped on it.”  GE Oil & Gas more than doubled revenue in five years to
$7.6 billion last year as Immelt looks to faster-growing and
emerging markets to boost revenue and earnings. John Wood, based
in Aberdeen,  Scotland , plans to return $1.7 billion in cash to
shareholders, a regulatory filing said.  GE’s acquisition is the largest of an oil-services unit
worldwide in the past year, according to Bloomberg data. The
average purchase among almost 40 was valued at $230.7 million.  Krenicki, who oversees the  GE Energy  businesses, said the
company plans to “stick to our knitting” in acquisitions,
adding so-called bolt-on purchases in the $1 billion to $3
billion range across the other portions of his businesses, which
include the world’s biggest provider of power-generation
equipment and services including gas and wind turbines, water
treatment and solar panels.  John Wood’s Debt  GE Energy Infrastructure provided $37.5 billion of the
parent company’s $150 billion in sales last year.  The purchase today, if completed, would follow Wellstream,
and the acquisitions of the Hydril unit of Tenaris SA in 2008
and Vetco Gray Inc. in 2007.  Acquiring the unit, which has about 3,800 employees, is
expected to bolster sales and earnings “significantly,” GE
said in the statement.  John Wood agreed to buy PSN Ltd. in December to create the
world’s leading brownfield production-services provider. Selling
the support unit would help pay down debt, Todd Scholl, an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in London, said Feb. 3.  John Wood was pleased with the price GE agreed to pay,
Langlands said.  ‘Strong Interest’  “There was very strong interest from a number of parties
on the business,” he said on the call, without identifying
them.    Halliburton Co . and  Weatherford International Ltd . both
expressed an interest in the unit, according to a person
familiar with the bidding process.  GE and John Wood agreed to discuss an arrangement within
the gas-turbine sector, according to a John Wood statement. If
an agreement isn’t reached in 90 days or by the time the
acquisition closes, GE will pay John Wood $50 million.  Last month, GE Energy agreed to buy Lineage Power Holdings
Inc. to tap demand for electricity management from a surge in
mobile computing as it expands alternative-energy offerings
including smart grid, wind and solar.  Credit Suisse Group AG and JP Morgan Chase & Co. advised
John Wood, while Citigroup Inc. advised General Electric in the
acquisition, according to the companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne at   rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Joi Preciphs at 
 jpreciphs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  