-- 
Geithner Tells Obama Debt Expense to Rise to Record

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-02-14T12:51:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/geithner-quietly-tells-obama-debt-to-gnp-cost-poised-to-increase-to-record.html
  Barack Obama  may lose the advantage
of low borrowing costs as the U.S. Treasury Department says what
it pays to service the national debt is poised to triple amid
record budget deficits.  Interest expense will rise to 3.1 percent of gross domestic
product by 2016, from 1.3 percent in 2010 with the government
forecast to run cumulative deficits of more than $4 trillion
through the end of 2015, according to page 23 of a 24-page
 presentation  made to a 13-member committee of bond dealers and
investors that meet quarterly with Treasury officials.  While some of the lowest borrowing costs on record have
helped the economy recover from its worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression, bond yields are now rising as growth
resumes. Net interest expense will triple to an all-time high of
$554 billion in 2015 from $185 billion in 2010, according to the
Obama administration’s adjusted 2011 budget.  “It’s a slow train wreck coming and we all know it’s going
to happen,” said Bret Barker, an interest-rate analyst at Los
Angeles-based TCW Group Inc., which manages about $115 billion
in assets. “It’s just a question of whether we want to deal
with it. There are huge structural changes that have to go on
with this economy.”  The amount of marketable  U.S. government debt  outstanding
has risen to $8.96 trillion from $5.8 trillion at the end of
2008, according to the Treasury Department. Debt-service costs
will climb to 82 percent of the $757 billion shortfall projected
for 2016 from about 12 percent in last year’s deficit, according
to the budget projections.  Budget Proposal  That compares with 69 percent for  Portugal , whose bonds
have plummeted on speculation it may need to be bailed out by
the European Union and  International Monetary Fund .  Forecasts of higher interest expenses raises the pressure
on Obama to plan for trimming the deficit. The President, who
has called for a five-year freeze on discretionary spending
other than national security, is scheduled to release his
proposed fiscal 2012 budget today as his administration and
Congress negotiate boosting the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  “If government debt and deficits were actually to grow at
the pace envisioned, the economic and financial effects would be
severe,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the
House Budget Committee Feb. 9. “Sustained high rates of
government borrowing would both drain funds away from private
investment and increase our debt to foreigners, with adverse
long-run effects on U.S. output, incomes, and standards of
living.”  Yield Forecasts  Treasuries lost 2.67 percent last quarter, even after
reinvested interest, and are down 1.54 percent this year, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Yields rose last week
to an average of 2.19 percent for all maturities from 2010’s low
of 1.30 percent on Nov. 4.  The yield on benchmark 10-year Treasury note will climb to
4.25 by the end of the second quarter of 2012, from 3.63 percent
last week, according to the median estimate of 51 economists and
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The rate was 3.64
percent at 7:50 a.m. today in New York. The economy will grow
3.2 percent in 2011, the fastest pace since 2004, according to
another poll.  “People are starting to come to the conclusion that you’ve
got a self-sustaining recovery going on here,” said Thomas Girard who helps manage $133 billion in fixed income at New York
Life Investment Management in New York. “When  interest rates 
start to go back up because of the normal business cycle, debt
service costs have the potential to just skyrocket. Every day
that we don’t address this in a meaningful way it gets more and
more dangerous.”  ‘Kind of Disruption’  While yields on the benchmark 10-year note are up, they
remain below the average of 4.14 percent over the past decade as  Europe ’s debt crisis bolsters investor demand for safer assets,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “The market is still giving the U.S. government the
benefit of the doubt,” said Eric Pellicciaro, New York-based
head of global rates investments at BlackRock Inc., which
manages about $3.56 trillion in assets. “What we’re concerned
with is whether the budget will only be corrected after the
market has tested them. Will we need some kind of disruption
within the  bond market  before they’ll actually do anything.”  Still, U.S. spending on debt service accounts for 1.7
percent of its GDP compared with 2.5 percent for  Germany , 2.6
percent for the United Kingdom and a median of 1.2 percent for
AAA rated sovereign issuers, according to a study by  Standard &
Poor’s  published Dec. 24. Among AA rated nations,  China ’s ratio
is 0.4 percent, while Japan’s is 2.9 percent, and for BBB rated
countries,  Mexico  devotes 1.7 percent of its output to debt
service and Brazil 5.2 percent, the report shows.  Auction Demand  Demand for Treasuries remains close to record levels at
government debt auctions. Investors bid $3.04 for each dollar of
bonds sold in the government’s $178 billion of auctions last
month, the most since September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Indirect bidders, a group that includes foreign
central banks, bought a record 71 percent, or $17 billion of the
$24 billion in 10-year notes offered on Feb. 9.  Foreign holdings of Treasuries have increased 18 percent to
$4.35 trillion through November. China, the largest overseas
holder, has increased its stake by 0.1 percent to $895.6
billion, and Japan, the second largest, boosted its by 14.6
percent to $877.2 billion.  ‘Killing Itself’  “China cannot dump Treasuries without killing itself,”
said  Michael Cheah , who oversees $2 billion in bonds at
SunAmerica Asset Management in Jersey City,  New Jersey .
“They’re holding Treasuries as a means to an end,” said Cheah,
who worked at the Singapore Monetary Authority from 1982 through
1999, and now teaches finance classes at  New York  University and
at Chinese universities. “It’s part of what’s needed to promote
exports.”  At least some of the increase in interest expense is
related to an effort by the Treasury to extend the average
maturity of its debt when rates are relatively low by selling
more long-term bonds, which have higher yields than short-term
notes. The average life of the  U.S. debt  is 59 months, up from
49.4 months in March 2009. That was the lowest since 1984.  The U.S. produced four budget surpluses from 1998 through
2001, the first since 1969, as the expanding economy, declining
rates and a boom in stock prices combined to swell tax receipts.  Tax cuts in 2001 and 2003, the strain of the Sept. 11
terror attacks, the cost of funding wars in Afghanistan and
Iraq, the collapse in  home prices  and the subsequent recession
and financial crisis has led to the three largest deficits in
dollar terms on record, totaling $3.17 trillion the past three
years.  ‘Demonstrates Confidence’  The U.S. needs to manage its spending decisions “in a way
that demonstrates confidence to investors so we can bring down
our long-term fiscal deficits, because if we don’t do that, it’s
going to hurt future growth,” Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in  Washington  on Feb. 9.  The Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee, which includes
representatives from firms ranging from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
to Soros Fund Management LLC, expressed concern in the Feb. 1
report that the U.S. is exposing itself to the risk that demand
erodes unless it cultivates more domestic demand.  “A more diversified debt holder base would prepare the
Treasury for a potential decline in foreign participation,” the
report said.  Foreign investors held 49.7 percent of the $8.75 trillion
of public Treasury debt outstanding as of November, down from as
high as 55.7 percent in April 2008 after the collapse of Bear
Stearns Cos., according to Treasury data.  Potential Demand  The committee projects there may be $2.4 trillion in latent
demand for Treasuries from banks, insurance companies and
pension funds as well as individual investors. New securities
with maturities as long as 100 years, as well as callable
Treasuries or bonds whose principal is linked to the growth of
the economy might entice potential lenders, the report said.  “They are opening up a can of worms with the idea of all
these other instruments,” said Tom di Galoma, head of U.S.
rates trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based
brokerage for institutional investors. “They should try to keep
the Treasury issuance as simple as possible. The more issuance
you have in particular issue, the more people will trade them --
whether it be domestic or foreign investors.”  White House Budget Director  Jacob Lew  said the Obama
administration’s 2012 budget would save $1.1 trillion over the
next 10 years by cutting programs to rein in a deficit that may
reach a record $1.5 trillion this year.  ‘Roll-Over Risk’  “We have to start living within our means,” Lew said
yesterday on CNN’s “State of the Union” program.  Still, about $4.5 trillion, or 63 percent of the $7.2
trillion in public Treasury coupon debt, needs to be refinanced
by 2016. That gives the government a narrowing window as growing
interest expense will curtail its ability to spend.  “There is roll-over risk,” said James Caron, head of U.S.
interest-rate strategy at Morgan Stanley in New York, one of 20
primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “It’s a vicious
cycle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  