-- 
Genetically Modified Prairie Grass Yields Cheaper, More Abundant Ethanol

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-02-14T21:22:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/genetically-modified-prairie-grass-yields-cheaper-more-abundant-ethanol.html
Switchgrass, the prairie plant that
once fueled the buffalo herds of the American Great Plains, may
one day fill automobile tanks in a bioengineered form that’s
cheaper and yields more ethanol than the original variety.  Researchers showed that by manipulating  lignin , a compound
that stiffens plants, they were able to produce a variety that
resulted in 38 percent more biofuel with lower pretreatment
costs. Modified switchgrass required 4 to 5 times less
cellulase, an enzyme used to break down fiber, according to a
report in the  Proceedings of the  National Academy of Sciences .  Switchgrass can grow 10 feet high with pencil-thick stems,
and has the potential to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil,
according to the  Department of Energy . The grass grows quickly
and captures solar energy, using water “very efficiently,”
according to the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, a U.S. facility
based in Oak Ridge,  Tennessee . It lives for more than 10 years
and allows for multiple harvests, the study authors wrote.  “The transgenic plant materials require less severe
pretreatment and much lower cellulase dosages to obtain ethanol
yields equivalent to yields in controls,” wrote lead author
Chunxiang Fu, a scientist at the  Samuel Roberts Noble Foundation 
in Ardmore,  Oklahoma . “These transgenic switchgrass lines and
the approach are valuable for developing improved cultivars of
biofuel crops.”  Ethanol is  mixed  now with gasoline to make auto fuel.
Nearly half of U.S. gasoline contains up to 10 percent ethanol
to boost octane or meet air quality requirements, according to
the Department of Energy.  13 Billion Gallons  The U.S. will produce almost 14 billion gallons of ethanol
from corn in 2011,  according to  the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. That is based on a calculation of 0.9 million
barrels of ethanol produced daily in the U.S., according to the
Energy Department. Prices of ethanol have gained 44 percent in
the past year. Denatured ethanol for March delivery fell 1.2
cents, or 0.5 percent, to $2.453 a gallon on the Chicago Board
of Trade.  Switchgrass once stretched across tens of millions of acres
of the American plains before settlers, farming and other
development confined the prairie grass to parks and nature
preserves. Some farmers today grow it for livestock or ground
cover to control erosion. Cultivating switchgrass as a fuel crop
would require minor changes, according to the  Department of
Energy .  The improved switchgrass may help more than just ethanol,
the authors wrote. It may help with newly emerging biofuels such
as butanol, isobutene, and “ green gasoline ,” made from the
cellulose in plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 