-- 
German Top Carmakers Set for Record Profit as Value Swells by $90 Billion

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-02-14T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/german-automakers-profits-may-beat-pre-financial-crisis-levels.html
Germany’s big three carmakers, which
have added about 67 billion euros ($90 billion) in market value
since the end of the 2009, are poised for 2011 profits exceeding
pre-financial crisis highs amid U.S. and Chinese demand.    Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and  Volkswagen AG  will probably
post earnings before interest and taxes for this year beating
records set in 2007 and 2008, respectively, while  Daimler AG ’s
Ebit is expected to rise to the highest level since 1999, when
Chrysler was still part of the company, according to analysts.  Daimler Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche, the first
of the German auto CEOs to discuss 2011 targets when he reports
fourth-quarter earnings tomorrow, said in January that growth
this year will be constrained by factory limits rather than
customer demand. Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz, BMW and VW all
reported record deliveries last month.  “Mercedes and BMW have an order book that they’ve never
had before in their history,” said  Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-
based Credit Suisse analyst with “outperform” ratings on all
three manufacturers. “They’re looking at peak profits, and it’s
hard for investors not to get excited.”  The three carmakers have a combined market value of 157
billion euros, up 75 percent from the end of 2009, buoyed by
sales advances in  China  and the U.S., the world’s two largest
auto markets.  Toyota Motor Corp ., the biggest automaker, was
almost unchanged in the period, while  Ford Motor Co . was up
about 61 percent.  Tight Supply  Daimler, the world’s second-largest luxury-car maker, is
set to achieve the highest 2011 operating profit of the three,
reaching 8.79 billion euros, according to the average estimate
of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  BMW will probably report Ebit for this year of 5.59 billion
euros, besting the 2007 record of 4.21 billion euros, according
to the survey. VW’s Ebit in 2011 is expected to rise to 8.03
billion euros, surpassing the 2008 peak of 6.33 billion euros,
on rising demand at its Audi luxury brand.  The tight vehicle supply is causing delivery delays in
Germany, as manufacturers shift cars to the U.S. and Chinese
markets, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in a study released
Feb. 4. Delivery times for build-to-order cars in Germany have
climbed to 12.9 weeks on average compared with a typical waiting
period of eight weeks, the consulting firm said.  Audi buyers worldwide wait an average of three to four
months for a car because of an order backlog, rather than the
typical eight to 10 weeks,  Peter Schwarzenbauer , Audi’s sales
chief, said in an interview on Feb. 9.  Daimler Profit   Daimler is expected to report fourth-quarter net income
tomorrow of 1.28 billion euros, according to the average
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The Stuttgart,
Germany-based company, also the world’s largest truckmaker,
posted a loss of 348 million euros a year earlier.  Revenue in the quarter probably rose 21 percent to 25.8
billion euros, according to nine analysts.  The Munich-based manufacturer of BMW, Mini, and Rolls-Royce
vehicles, which is due to report 2010 earnings on March 15, is
targeting record sales of 1.4 million vehicles this year,
boosted by demand for the revamped 5-Series introduced in 2010.  “BMW is very well positioned on the product side with the
ramp up of the 5-Series,” said  Daniel Schwarz , an analyst with
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Daimler has the potential to
surprise people with a stronger sales mix,” as many investors
anticipate declining demand for the aging current versions of
the high-end E- and S-Class models.  EADS Stake  New vehicles may also fuel additional demand. BMW is
introducing a revamped X3 sport-utility vehicle and debuted the
convertible version of its 6-Series coupe earlier this year.
Mercedes overhauled the SLK hard-top roadster and is upgrading
the C-Class, its best-selling model, with a new interior. Audi
is introducing the next generation of the A6 sedan in March.  Investors are also looking tomorrow for comments from
Daimler regarding its 15 percent stake in European Aeronautic
Defence & Space Co. German politicians have been debating
whether the government should buy the stake if Daimler decides
to sell prior to the end of an investor agreement in 2012.  Daimler has fended off speculation over a quick sale of the
holding in the owner of Airbus, which it helped establish by
contributing its Dasa unit.   Daimler may also appoint the first woman to its management
board as early as this week. The company is considering naming
Christine Hohmann-Dennhardt, 60, to its management board to
oversee legal and compliance issues, two people familiar with
the situation said Feb. 9. Hohmann-Dennhardt stepped down this
month from  Germany ’s constitutional court after 11 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 