-- 
German Stocks Rise to Three-Year High; BASF, ThyssenKrupp Gain

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-02-14T16:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/german-stocks-advance-to-three-year-high-bilfinger-berger-rises.html
German stocks advanced, sending the  DAX Index  to its highest level in three years, as the Japanese
economy shrank less than forecast, spurring speculation that the
global recovery will continue.    BASF SE , the world’s biggest chemical company, rose after
Citigroup Inc. named it among the most preferred shares.
ThyssenKrupp AG rose with metal prices.  Roth & Rau AG  surged as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended buying the shares.  The benchmark DAX gained 0.3 percent to 7,396.63 at the
5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt . The gauge has rallied 7 percent
this year, reaching the highest level since January 2008, amid
optimism that the global economic recovery is gathering
strength. The broader HDAX Index advanced 0.4 percent today.  While Japan’s economy shrank for the first time in five
quarters, the 1.1 percent contraction beat economists’ estimates
for gross domestic product to drop 2 percent. Overseas demand
may revive production, making the decrease in the size of the
economy temporary as world trade improves.  European stocks recovered their losses on Feb. 11 as
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  stepped down and handed power
to the military, bowing to the demands of protesters who have
occupied Tahrir Square in central Cairo for the past few weeks.  Egypt’s Supreme Council of the Armed Forces yesterday
dissolved parliament, suspended the constitution and said it
would rule until general elections take place.  Next Step  “Friday’s news from Egypt served up the catalyst to push
what was already a relatively solid market to take the next step
forward,” Cameron Peacock, a market analyst IG Markets in  Melbourne , wrote in a note. “The news is continuing to buoy
sentiment in equity markets globally.”  BASF rose 2.5 percent to 59.49 euros, the highest price in
more than a month. Citigroup included the stock among its most
preferred shares.  ThyssenKrupp,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker, added 1 percent
to 30.60 euros. Copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc all rose on
the London Metal Exchange today.  Roth & Rau surged 7.1 percent to 17.08 euros, the highest
price since October. The stock was raised to “buy” from
“neutral” at Goldman Sachs.  The following stocks rose or fell in Frankfurt. Stock
symbols are in parentheses.    Centrotherm Photovoltaics AG  (CTN GY) jumped 6.1 percent to
34.60 euros, the highest price since August. The German solar-
equipment maker may increase sales by as much as 15 percent this
year after beating profit and revenue goals in 2010, Frankfurter
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung reported, citing Chief Executive
Officer Robert Hartung.    Gerresheimer AG  (GXI GY) surged 3.4 percent to 31.53 euros
after the maker of medical packaging was raised to
“accumulate” from “hold” at Equinet AG.  Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG (HDD GY) slipped 2.4 percent
to 3.73 euros as the maker of printing presses was cut to
“add” from “buy” at Commerzbank AG.    Hochtief AG  (HOT GY) rose 3.1 percent to 68.43 euros, a
seventh day of gains for the longest winning streak in five
months. The German company that controls  Australia ’s biggest
builder Leighton Holdings Ltd. forecast profit for the 2010
fiscal year to be “well above” a year earlier because of
strength in nearly all its divisions and a strong Australian
dollar.    MTU Aero Engines Holding AG  (MTX GY) climbed 2 percent to
52.37 euros. The company will earn about 12 billion euros in
revenue over the next 15 years out of a grop the German company
is a partner in to build parts for the Airbus SAS A320, Capital
reported, citing an interview with Chief Executive Officer Egon
Behle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  