-- 
Graffiti Artist Trades Street Vandalism for Bombardier Jet Gig

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-02-14T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/graffiti-artist-trades-street-vandalism-for-bombardier-jet-gig.html
Los Angeles-based graffiti artist
 Retna  used to get arrested for spray-painting buses, trains and
other commercial property.  Now, he gets paid to do this.  VistaJet, Swiss operator of 31 private aircraft,
commissioned Retna to paint the tail of its largest corporate
jet, the Bombardier Global Express XRS, this spring.  “It’s a $60 million canvas, so we decided to start with
just this one,” said Nina Flohr, head of branding and
communications at  VistaJet .  Together with  Bombardier Business Aircraft , VistaJet is
also sponsoring a traveling exhibition of Retna’s paintings,
“The Hallelujah World Tour,” with a $4 million budget.  First stop: A 13,000-square-foot warehouse in  New York 
displaying 35 large canvases and one sprawling sculpture of the
artist’s name.  Hung cheek-by-jowl around the perimeter, the works bristle
with mysterious symbols, resembling a cross between Asian
calligraphy and Egyptian hieroglyphics. Retna’s imaginary
alphabet has roots in Old English, gang graffiti, Arabic and
Hebrew.  Furious Mother  “Even though I don’t understand them, I’m really intrigued
by them,” said  Retna , 31, who speaks English and Spanish. “I
just really love writing.”  Retna, who grew up in downtown  Los Angeles , got into
graffiti as a 9-year-old Catholic-school student.  “I’d see graffiti on a freeway going to school,” he said.
“I couldn’t think of anything else. I just wanted to draw, draw
and draw.”  Over the years, he tagged freeways, public parks and
bridges. Along the way, he got arrested for vandalism, he said.  His mother, who moved to the U.S. from  El Salvador  and had
to work two jobs (including a night shift as a parking-lot
attendant) to put Retna through a private school, was furious.  “She was worried that something would happen to me,” said
Retna. “I put her through a lot of pain.”  He said his pieces include Spanish curses his mother hurled
at him as well as names of dead friends.  Retna completed the largest piece -- an 8-by-20-foot canvas
filled with five rows of squat black and red runes -- in a
single day this week.  “That speed comes from working on the street,” he said,
as he walked around the freezing warehouse while a production
crew was busy arranging his paintings and adjusting the lights.
“I am talking about hanging on a bridge. We’d have to finish in
45 minutes before the cops got there.”  Middle East  Decoding these enigmatic messages could take a lot more
time. You’d need a guide to explain how a sparse composition of
silver symbols -- vertical lines, zigzags and curved shapes --
translates into “stoned to death.” And that’s the simplest
piece in the show.  The exhibition’s producers,  Andy Valmorbida  and Vladimir
Restoin Roitfeld, are still working on the tour’s next
destinations.  “We want to show it in the Middle East,” said Valmorbida.
  Egypt  would have been a good idea a month ago. Not so much
now.”  Prices for the paintings range from $25,000 to $180,000.
The show runs through Feb. 21 at 560 Washington St.  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 