-- 
Growthpoint, PIC Buy Cape Town Mall Owned by Istithmar for $1.3 Billion

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-02-14T12:58:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/growthpoint-pic-agree-to-buy-cape-town-s-v-a-waterfront-for-1-33-billion.html
  Growthpoint Properties Ltd .,  South
Africa ’s largest publicly traded real-estate investor, and the
Public Investment Corp. agreed to buy  Cape Town ’s Victoria &
Alfred Waterfront shopping mall in the country’s biggest
property deal.  Growthpoint and the PIC, which manages state pension funds,
will pay 9.72 billion rand ($1.33 billion) for the mall and
surrounding properties, Johannesburg-based Growthpoint said in a
stock exchange filing today. Istithmar World, London & Regional
Properties and a group of local investors teamed up to buy the
development from Transnet Ltd., the state-owned transport
company, and three of its pension funds for $1 billion in 2006.  “The developed property portfolio boasts a well-
established and high-quality portfolio of properties offering
attractive rentals, rental escalations and lease expiry
profiles,” Growthpoint said. “The transaction also creates the
opportunity to unlock significant value.”  Shares of Growthpoint rose 9 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
16.94 rand at 1:12 p.m. in Johannesburg, valuing the company at
26.7 billion rand.  The company first said it was on talks that
could affect its share price on Dec. 13, and the Johannesburg-
based Mail & Guardian newspaper subsequently reported it was in
talks to buy the V&A for 10 billion rand.  Growthpoint said it has secured funding for its portion of
the purchase, about 4.9 billion rand, through long-term bank
loans. The company plans to refinance some of the debt through
bond and share sales, it said.  Istithmar World is a private equity company owned by  Dubai
World , a state owned holding company that’s altering the terms
on $24.9 billion of debt.  The V&A, which surrounds Cape Town’s harbor and has shops,
hotels, restaurants, offices and an aquarium, is Cape Town’s
biggest tourist draw, attracting as many as 21 million visitors
a year, Growthpoint said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  