-- 
Gulf Navigation Plans Fleet Expansion, Saudi Company

-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-02-14T13:43:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/gulf-navigation-plans-fleet-expansion-saudi-company-update2-.html
  Gulf Navigation Holding  PJSC,
Dubai’s only publicly traded oil-tanker owner, plans to double
its supertanker fleet and set up a company in Saudi Arabia to
operate it.  Gulf Navigation will add by 2013 two very large crude
carriers, each capable of carrying 2 million barrels of oil,
bringing to four the number of such vessels in its fleet, the
company said in a statement today. The VLCC fleet will expand to
nine by 2015.  The company reported a loss of 236.8 million dirhams ($64.5
million) in 2010, compared with a profit of 26.6 million dirhams
in the previous year, according to the statement. A decision to
sell its six “Probo” ships, caused by an oversupply of the
vessels that can carry oil products, bulk and ore, contributed
to the loss, Vice Chairman Ghazi al-Ibrahim told a press
conference today in Dubai.  The VLCCs will be operated from a company that will be set
up in  Saudi Arabia  with partners from Gulf countries and with a
capital of 1.66 billion Saudi riyals ($442.6 million), said al-
Ibrahim. Shares of the Saudi unit may be sold in a public
offering after two or three years, he said.  “The kingdom was selected due its stature in the crude oil
market, as the world’s biggest exporter and user of VLCC
tankers,” said the company statement.  Gulf Navigation is also “negotiating a deal to acquire
Aframax” vessels, said al-Ibrahim, without specifying a number.
Aframax ships can carry about a third of a VLCC load.  Earnings from shipping Middle East crude oil to  Asia , the
world’s busiest route for supertankers, last week rose to the
highest in more than three months on increased cargo volumes.  Daily returns on the Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage jumped 35
percent to $42,285 on Feb. 11, the highest since Nov. 2,
according to the London-based Baltic Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 