-- 
Gulf Coast Gasoline Strengthens After Hovensa Desulfurizer Fire

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-02-14T19:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/gulf-coast-gasoline-strengthens-after-hovensa-desulfurizer-fire.html
Spot gasoline in the  Gulf Coast 
gained after a fire in a distillate desulfurizer at Hovensa
LLC’s St. Croix refinery.  The unit at the 525,000-barrel-a-day refinery in the  U.S.
Virgin Islands  where the fire broke out Feb. 11 isn’t one of the
units Hovensa plans to shut when it cuts distillation capacity
to 350,000 barrels a day, Alex Moorhead, a spokesman for the
plant, said in an e-mail.  The discount for conventional 87-octane gasoline in the
Gulf Coast narrowed 0.63 cent to 5.5 cents a gallon versus
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 2:06 p.m.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt delivery rose
4.41 cents to $2.4662 a gallon.  Hovensa, a joint venture of state oil company Petroleos de
Venezuela SA and  Hess Corp ., said on Jan. 26 it would shut some
processing units permanently at the plant to trim losses.  Motiva Enterprises LLC’s Norco, Lousiana, refinery released
unknown amounts of butadiene, benzene and hydrogen sulfide
because of equipment failure, according to a filing with the
National Response Center.  Motiva’s Port Arthur plant in Texas has operating
conditions that require the flaring of gases, according to a
recorded message left on a community hotline.  Motiva is a refining and marketing joint venture of Saudi
Refining Inc., a subsidiary of Saudi Arabian Oil Co., and Shell
Oil Co., a unit of Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  Ted Rolfvondenbaumen, a Shell spokesman, declined to
comment on the events, citing competitive reasons.  Conventional 87 octane gasoline in  New York  Harbor
strengthened 0.5 cent to a discount of 2.13 cents a gallon
against futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 