-- 
Icahn Sets Final Deadline for $665 Million Dynegy Bid

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-02-14T21:25:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/icahn-sets-final-deadline-for-665-million-dynegy-bid-update3-.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  said
his current $665 million bid for  Dynegy Inc. (DYN)  will be his last,
after winning federal regulatory approval to acquire the third-
largest U.S. independent power producer.  No price increase or further extensions will be made,  Icahn
Enterprises  said a statement. The bid, previously extended to
today, will expire Feb. 18 at 5 p.m. New York time unless at
least 35 percent of outstanding Dynegy shares are offered at
Icahn’s price of $5.50 a share, bringing his stake to 50
percent, Dynegy said in a filing today.  About 1.4 percent of the shares were tendered as of Feb.
11. Icahn is the largest  shareholder  of Houston-based Dynegy.
His offer, announced on Dec. 15, values the company at $4.73
billion including debt. Icahn bid after shareholders rejected a
$5-a-share offer by  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in November. Hedge fund
Seneca Capital, the second-largest Dynegy shareholder, opposes
the offer.  “It looks like the Icahn deal won’t happen based on the
vote total as of Friday,” Charles Fishman, a Falls Church,
Virginia-based analyst for Pritchard Capital Partners, said
today in an interview. “It’s Seneca’s effort to gain board
seats you have to watch at this point.”  Dynegy will pay $5 million to Icahn should the offer fail
and may owe him up to $16.3 million, according to the amended
filing.  Dynegy rose 14 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $4.81 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading at 4:01 p.m. The shares have
one buy rating, 11 holds, and one sell from analysts.  Final Deadline  Dynegy and Icahn amended the December merger agreement
advancing the final deadline for the offer to Feb. 18,
eliminating previous terms allowing for an extension into
September, according to today’s filing. Final regulatory
approval for the transaction was issued Feb. 10 by the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission.  Seneca, based in New York, has said Dynegy may be worth $8
a share should it refinance debt, sell some assets, and wait for
economic recovery to revive demand and prices for its power.
Dynegy’s cash flow could be improved by new power market rules
in New York recently approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission and under consideration by the state’s electric-grid
operator, Seneca said today in a statement.  Seneca said it will solicit shareholder approval to elect
E. Hunter Harrison, former chief executive officer of Canadian
National Railway Co., and Jeff Hunter, chief financial officer
of closely held US Power Generating Co., to replace Chief
Executive Officer Bruce Williamson and David W. Biegler on
Dynegy’s board.  NRG Energy Inc. is largest U.S. independent power producer
by revenue and Calpine Corp. is the second-largest. Independent
power producers generate electricity without a utility unit that
draws revenue at regulated rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  