-- 
ICBC Securities Unit to Hire From Global Competitors

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-02-15T05:10:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/icbc-securities-unit-to-hire-from-global-firms-as-macleod-joins.html
(Corrects name in 12th paragraph of story originally
published Feb. 14.)  ICBC International Holdings Ltd.,
the securities unit of the world’s largest lender, will hire
more people from global rivals as it expands abroad to compete
with the likes of  Morgan Stanley  and UBS AG for advisory work.  “We are increasingly internationalizing our workforce,”
Mary MacLeod, who joined ICBC International last month as deputy
chief executive officer from  Deutsche Bank AG , said in a Feb. 11
interview. “As our client base and our presence continue to
expand beyond China and globally, we need to ensure that our
bankers have the experience to operate in a global framework.”  Hong Kong-based ICBC International plans to increase its
250-strong workforce “significantly” over the next two years
as it moves beyond helping Chinese companies sell stock or find
takeover targets, said MacLeod, without providing more detail.
She was chief operating officer of Deutsche Bank’s investment-
banking unit in the Asia-Pacific region before joining ICBC
International.    Industrial & Commercial Bank of China  Ltd., the parent of
ICBC International that’s the world’s largest bank by market
value, in April said it hired Deutsche Bank’s Lee Zhang as a
vice president. The hiring of Zhang, one of the most senior
Chinese investment bankers at a western securities firm, fueled
speculation that Chinese financial companies were getting ready
to hire executives from Wall Street firms such as  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc .  ‘Big Headache’  ICBC International started operations in 2009, and
participated in  Petroleo Brasileiro SA ’s $70 billion share sale,
the world’s largest, as a joint bookrunner in September last
year. It was the first time a Chinese investment bank took part
in a global offering.  ICBC International also worked on the $20.5 billion initial
public offering of insurer AIA Group Ltd. in Hong Kong in
October, the biggest IPO in the city. That deal helped make the
firm the 11th-largest underwriter of first-time stock sales in  Hong Kong , its best-ever showing. New York-based Morgan Stanley
ranked first, Bloomberg data show.  Companies raised a record HK$430 billion ($55 billion) in
IPOs in Hong Kong last year, as economies and stock markets
recovered from the global financial crisis. ICBC International
helped arrange three more IPOs in the city, all by Chinese
companies.  Trailing in Pay  Matching the pay offered by firms like New York-based
Goldman Sachs and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank has been a major
obstacle for Chinese securities companies trying to expand,
executives and headhunters have said.  “Getting global talent has been a big headache for us,”
China Merchants Securities (HK) Co. Managing Director Ronald Wan
said in an interview in November. “It is quite challenging to
convince our parent group in  China  to agree to offer competitive
packages, especially when it comes to bonuses.”  While China boasts four of the world’s 10 largest banks by
market value, pay remains a fraction of what executives in the
U.S. and  Europe  get, limiting their allure as employers.  ICBC Chairman Jiang Jianqing was paid $911,000 yuan
($138,155) in 2009, compared with the 9.55 million euro ($12.9
million) package awarded to Deutsche Bank CEO  Josef Ackermann 
the same year, according to annual reports of the two lenders.  “Chinese banks are less flexible with the compensation
structure,” said Jessica Kao, a Shanghai-based vice president
at compensation consulting firm McLagan. “Management mostly
just follows the target set earlier. There is less room for
negotiation.”  Keeping Talent  Chinese investment banks’ expansion plans may get a boost
as western rivals review compensation after the public outcry
over pay that followed the global financial crisis.  Barclays Plc reduced bonuses for employees of its
investment banking unit by about 15 percent on average, people
with knowledge of the matter said last week. Bonuses will
account for a lower share of total compensation and a bigger
part of the awards will be paid out in restricted stock, Yoon Chi-Won, UBS’s co-chief executive officer for Asia-Pacific, said
today in a Bloomberg Television interview.  That poses a dilemma for securities firms’ trying to ensure
their best performers don’t depart.  “Talent retention is a big topic for investment banks
these days,” Yoon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  