-- 
Microsoft’s Ballmer Sees Windows Phone Update in March

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-02-14T18:33:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/microsoft-s-ballmer-sees-windows-phone-update-in-early-march.html
  Microsoft Corp . will release the
first Windows Phone 7 update in early March, Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Ballmer  said.  The operating system, which got a boost last week after  Nokia Oyj  said the platform would be its primary mobile-phone
software, will get features this year such as Internet Explorer
9, Twitter and multitasking capabilities, Ballmer said today at
the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona,  Spain .  “Increasingly, consumers, developers and mobile operators
won’t just choose a phone, they’re really choosing a platform,”
he said.  Microsoft is pulling out all the stops to reverse market
share declines in its mobile-phone software as smartphone sales
are estimated by analysts to pass personal computers in the next
two years. The deal with Nokia, the world’s biggest maker of
handsets, is a bet the two companies together can challenge  Apple Inc . and  Google Inc .  Nokia Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, a former
president of Microsoft’s business unit, said his company will
get “billions” in benefits from the partnership. Andy Lees,
president of Microsoft’s mobile division, declined to tell
analysts exactly how much Microsoft will pay. The agreement
involves the transfer of revenue from search, advertising,
geographic-location services and royalty payments, he said.  Microsoft released a complete overhaul to its mobile
operating system last year. Called Windows Phone 7, 2 million
copies of the program were shipped in its first quarter on the
market, a number analysts termed disappointing.  Brand Awareness  Microsoft said last month that customer satisfaction for
the product is at 93 percent and brand awareness jumped 22
points to 66 percent since the release. The Redmond, Washington-
based company is now trying to add features and get the product
in the hands of as many customers as possible.  Microsoft’s share of the smartphone operating-system market
declined to 2.8 percent in the third quarter, from 7.9 percent a
year earlier, according to  Gartner Inc.  The share of Google’s
Android platform rose to 25.5 percent from 3.5 percent, while
Apple’s iOS share declined to 16.7 percent from 17.1 percent.  Phones with the new Microsoft software went on sale Oct. 21
in Europe and Nov. 8 in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  