-- 
MIDEAST DAYBOOK: Egypt T-Bills Sale, Banks Closed; Sorouh Loss

-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 
2011-02-14T04:22:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/mideast-daybook-egypt-t-bills-sale-banks-closed-sorouh-loss.html
  Egypt  paid yields that were close to
the highest in two years at its first debt auction since the
ouster of President Hosni Mubarak amid investor concern over the
economic effects of 18 days of demonstrations.  Islamic bonds from the Persian Gulf may extend last week’s
rally as the resignation of Mubarak bolstered investor
confidence that turmoil in the Arab’s world’s most populous
nation will subside.  Sorouh Real Estate PJSC reported a loss of 199 million
dirhams ($54 million) in the fourth quarter after Abu Dhabi’s
second-biggest property developer by market value set aside
money to cover impairments and provisions.  WHAT TO WATCH:
* Egypt has ordered the country’s banks to close on Feb. 14 due
  to protests by some bank employees. Banks will also be shut
  for a public holiday on Feb. 15.  CONFERENCES:
* U.A.E. Oil Minister Al-Hamli Speaks at OPEC commemorative
  event in Abu Dhabi.
* Gulf Navigation Holding holds a press conference to discuss
  the company’s strategy for 2011-2015.  MARKETS:
* Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 0.4 percent.
* Oil for March delivery rose 0.1 percent to $85.63 a barrel in
  electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange at
  8:16 a.m. Dubai time.
* Gold futures fell 0.2 percent to $1,358 an ounce.
*  QE Index  climbed 0.7 percent,  ADX General Index  and Muscat
  Securities Market rose 0.6 percent each, Dubai Financial
  Market General Index advanced 0.4 percent, while Bahrain All
  Share Index gained 0.1 percent. Kuwait Stock Exchange Index
  fell 0.3 percent, while Saudi Arabia  Tadawul All Share Index 
  dropped 0.1 percent.  EQUITY MOVERS:
*  Drake & Scull International  PJSC (DSI UH), a Dubai-based
  construction and engineering company, won a contract valued at
  2 billion riyals from Saudi Aramco.
*  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC  (ADCB UH) hired Sapnesh Varma
  as head of bond trading. Varma joined Abu Dhabi Commercial
  Bank from  Emirates NBD PJSC  (EMIRATES UH).
* Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM AB), controlled by Prince
  Alwaleed bin Talal, sold 1 million square meters of land to
  Real Estate Investment Co. Ltd. at 250 riyals a square meter
  to develop the second “Kingdom City.” Banque Saudi Fransi will
  finance the project (BSFR AB).
*  Banque Saudi Fransi  (BSFR AB), a Saudi lender part-owned by
  Credit Agricole SA, said provisions for bad assets fell 89
  percent in the fourth quarter.
* Saudi Electricity Co. (SECO AB) signed five contracts valued
  at 766 million riyals ($204 million) with local companies to
  build and expand transformer stations and a power link in the
  kingdom, the Saudi Press Agency reported.  FINANCIAL RESULTS:
*  Kuwait Finance House  (KFIN KK), the country’s largest Islamic
  lender, said full-year profit dropped to 105.9 million dinars
  from 118.7 million dinars in 2009.
* Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL UH), the home finance company majority
  owned by  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC  (DIB UH), reported a profit
  of 26 million dirhams in 2010 after a loss of 54.5 million
  dirhams a year earlier.
* National Cement Co. (NCC UH), a United Arab Emirates maker of
  the building material, said full-year profit declined to 59.5
  million dirhams from 133.7 million in 2009.
*  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank  (ADIB UH) to announce results.
*  Qatar Electricity & Water Co . (QEWS QD) announces results.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  