-- 
Tiger Woods Will Be Fined by European Tour for Spitting on Course in Dubai

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-02-14T20:28:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/tiger-woods-to-be-fined-by-european-golf-tour-for-spitting-on-dubai-course.html
  Tiger Woods  will be fined by the
European Tour after the former top-ranked golfer spat on the
green while lining up a putt at the Dubai Desert Classic.  Woods on his Twitter account today apologized for his
“inconsiderate” behavior that came while preparing for a bogey
putt on the par-4 12th hole of yesterday’s final round.
Television cameras picked up the move. The bogey -- and another
on the 14th hole -- forced Woods out of contention. He was
trying to win his first event since November 2009.  “The tournament director, Mike Stewart, has reviewed the
incident and feels there has been a breach of the Tour code of
conduct and consequently, Tiger Woods will be fined,” spokesman
Paul Symes said today in an e-mailed statement.  The organizers declined to say how much Woods will have to
pay.  “The Euro Tour is right -- it was inconsiderate to spit
like that and I know better,” Woods said in the Twitter post,
which was confirmed in an e-mail from his agent,  Mark Steinberg .
“Just wasn’t thinking and want to say I’m sorry.”  Woods said his retooled swing didn’t hold up in the windy
conditions in Dubai, where he finished seven shots behind winner
Alvaro Quiros.  Woods shot a 3-over-par 75 yesterday to finish in a tie for
20th. It was his worst performance in six appearances at a
tournament he won in 2006 and 2008.  Woods, who started reworking his swing in August with new
coach  Sean Foley , was two shots off the lead with seven holes to
play at Emirates Golf Club. His bogeys on the 12th and 14th
holes were followed by a double-bogey at the par-5 18th, where
he hit his third shot into a water hazard.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Christopher Elser  in  London  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 