-- 
Higher Education Funding Cut by $89 Billion Over 10 Years in Obama Budget

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-14T17:17:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/higher-education-funding-cut-by-89-billion-over-10-years-in-obama-budget.html
President  Barack Obama , who has
called for the U.S. to lead the world in college graduates by
2020, proposed budget cuts that would reduce support for higher
education by $89 billion over 10 years.  Obama’s $77.4 billion spending proposal released today
would cut a provision allowing some college students to get two
Pell grants in a year and a program that lowers interest rates
on loans for graduate students. The changes will reduce 2012
higher education outlays by $10 billion while raising spending
for kindergarten through high school education 6.9 percent to
$26.8 billion, the Education Department said.  Obama called last year for the U.S. to keep its economy
competitive with other nations by producing an additional 8
million college graduates by 2020. Higher education spending
cuts are needed so the Education Department can shore up the
growing Pell program and expand support for competitive programs
such as “Race to the Top,” which offers money for states that
follow the administration’s prescriptions for raising student
and teacher achievement, according to the department.  “We’re making some tough choices to protect the Pell
grant,”  Justin Hamilton , a department spokesman, said in an e-
mail today. “We’re cutting where we can so that we can invest
where we must. Doing nothing would cost students up to $2,500 in
critical aid at a time when the cost of college is
skyrocketing.”  Race to the Top  Cutting higher education will let the department increase
spending on the  Elementary and Secondary Education Act ,
according to the budget documents. The act is targeted at
raising standards in grade schools and high schools.  Obama proposed $1.4 billion for the Education Department
for competitions such as Race to the Top, which doled out $4.35
billion to states in two rounds of funding. The next set of
competitions will target districts, rather than states,
Education Secretary Arne Duncan said Feb. 11 in a telephone call
with reporters.  The competition will also include a “First in the World”
contest for colleges and universities, budget documents said.
The program will offer grants totaling $150 million to recognize
programs that increase access and improve educational
productivity, the documents said.  $35 Billion in Costs  Pell grants  give college students from low-income families
as much as $5,550 per school year to pay tuition and other costs.
Program costs skyrocketed over the past three years to about $35
billion from $15 billion in fiscal 2008 as eligibility widened
and the economic crisis hurt families’ finances, said  Jason
Delisle , director of the federal education budget project at the  New America Foundation , a public policy institute based in
Washington.  “Congress appropriates the money about a year before the
grants go out,” Delisle said in a telephone interview before
the budget was released. “All these things are reasons why the
program always seems to be behind in how much money it needs.”  Under current rules, some students who have received a Pell
grant for the regular school year can get a second grant to
cover summer classes. Obama’s budget would eliminate that option,
along with subsidized loans for students in graduate school, the
budget documents said.  ‘Unanimous Agreement’  The proposal is a signal that both Democrats and
Republicans want to see the Pell grant program shrink, said
Jarrel Price, an analyst with Height Analytics in Washington who
studies the effect of government policy on for-profit colleges.  “There’s unanimous agreement that 2012 funding will face
severe cuts,” he said today in a telephone interview. “It’s
still a challenge to see the exact impact it will have on
revenues and enrollments.”  While many for-profit colleges get a significant portion of
their revenues from Pell grants, some students will replace lost
grants with loans, Price said.  About $162 million, or 28 percent of annual revenue, at San
Diego-based  Bridgepoint Education Inc . came from the grants,
according to a note Price sent to clients today.  Apollo Group
Inc ., the biggest education company and operator of the
University of Phoenix, got about $1 billion, or 22 percent of
revenue, from Pell grants in the most recent fiscal year, he
said.  Apollo, based in Phoenix, gained 27 cents to $43.26 at
12:13 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading. Bridgepoint fell 10 cents to $19.10. The Bloomberg U.S.
For-Profit Education Index of 13 companies rose 0.5 percent.  The proposed cuts in the Pell grant program would require
new legislation, a step that might open the structure of the
student aid program to congressional scrutiny, said David Baime,
senior vice president for government relations and research at
the  American Association of Community Colleges , a Washington-
based advocacy group.  “Once they’ve opened up the program, they’re opening the
door to anyone who might want to make retrenchments,” he said  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Washington  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  