-- 
Highway, Aviation, Rail Aid Grows in Obama Budget

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-02-14T18:03:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/highways-aviation-rail-aid-grows-in-obama-transportation-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  proposed a 16
percent transportation spending increase for fiscal 2012 while
tying spending on many highway, aviation and rail programs to
Congress passing a multiyear funding bill.  The plan calls on Congress to approve $556 billion in
surface transportation spending over six years, almost doubling
the amount from the $286.5 billion enacted by Congress in 2005.
The president’s plan doesn’t specify where revenue fueling the
increase would come from.  Obama’s surface plan, unlike the 2005 law, includes
operating and capital assistance for Amtrak, the national
passenger railroad, and funding for airport runway construction.
Those items historically have not been included in legislation
typically referred to as a “highway bill.”  Overall, Obama’s budget gives the Transportation Department
authority to spend $119 billion in fiscal 2012, up from $103
billion in 2010. Winners include electric vehicle makers such as  General Motors Co . and high-speed rail equipment producers such
as  Alstom SA . Losers include U.S. airlines, which would have to
collect higher passenger ticker taxes under Obama’s plan.  The budget would devote $8 billion in fiscal 2012 to high-
speed and intercity passenger rail programs. Over six years,
Obama would spend $53 billion for high-speed rail.  Alstom, the world’s third-largest power-equipment maker,
and  Siemens AG , Europe’s largest engineering company, are among
the firms that would benefit from higher rail spending in the
U.S.  Electric Vehicles  Amtrak, which received $1.5 billion in fiscal 2010 capital
and debt-service grants and operating subsidies, would have to
compete for money from a “system preservation and renewal”
fund Obama would create in the six-year surface plan.  Obama also would create an $80 million annual safety
inspection fee that railroads including  Norfolk Southern Corp .
and  Union Pacific Corp . would have to pay.  Obama’s budget boosts government investment in electric
battery-powered cars sold in the U.S. by companies including GM,
Nissan Motor Co. and  Tesla Motors Inc ., while cutting spending
on hydrogen fuel-cell technology, such as that used by Honda
Motor Co., and on clean diesel technology for commercial trucks
and buses.  Aviation Spending  The  Federal Aviation Administration  would get $18.7
billion, a 17 percent increase, in Obama’s budget. FAA
operations, including payments for staff and controller
salaries, would grow 5 percent to $9.82 billion.  Spending on equipment, including modernization of the air-
traffic control system called  NextGen , would grow 6 percent to
$3.12 billion.  Airport grants would be cut 31 percent to $2.4 billion.
However, airports could compete for a one-time allocation of
$3.1 billion that would come from Obama’s proposed surface-
spending plan. Including that revenue, airport grants would
increase 57 percent.  Obama’s plan also calls for airports to have the authority
to raise airline passenger fees to get additional revenue for
construction projects. That would be a loss for carriers
including  Delta Air Lines Inc . and  AMR Corp .’s American
Airlines, who have resisted any increase in the $4.50-per-
passenger charge.  The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration , which
coordinates vehicle recalls and writes automotive safety
standards, would have a 16 percent budget increase to $950
million from $822 million in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, the agency
chartered to reduce the number of trucking fatalities, would
receive $606 million in fiscal 2012, a 10 percent increase over
2010.  To contact the reporters on this story: John Hughes in
Washington   jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  