-- 
Index Ventures' Mike Volpi Says Android Is `the Next Windows'

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-02-14T21:40:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/index-ventures-mike-volpi-says-google-android-software-is-next-windows-.html
Index Ventures is revving up
investment in companies that tie their fortunes to  Google Inc .’s
Android mobile operating system.  “A significant portion of our investment dollars in the
next five years will go to Android,” Mike Volpi, a partner at
the Geneva-based venture-capital firm, said in an interview.
 Index  may pour as much as $125 million into mobile-related
businesses in that time frame, he said.  Venture investors are starting to view Android as a big
opportunity -- a reversal from a few years ago, when many balked
at funding startups focused purely on the software, Volpi said.
The operating system’s surging growth has piqued their interest.
Google accounted for 33 percent of smartphone shipments in the
fourth quarter, up from 8.7 percent a year earlier, according to
Singapore research firm  Canalys . Twice as many Google-based
devices shipped as  Apple Inc . iPhones, Canalys said.  Android is poised to become as big a phenomenon on mobile
devices as Microsoft Corp.’s software was on personal computers,
said Volpi, who used to oversee strategy at Cisco Systems Inc.
Windows runs more than 90 percent of world’s PCs.  “Android is the next Windows,” said Volpi, 44, who joined
Index in July 2009.  Index has already invested in Android-focused companies,
including  LookOut Inc. , which raised $19.5 million in a funding
round led by the firm in December. LookOut offers security
software and services for devices powered by Android, BlackBerry
and Windows Phone software, and counts McAfee Inc. as a
competitor. Most of its more than 5 million customers use
Android devices, Chief Executive Officer John Hering said.  Main Focus  “Android has been the largest and fastest-growing part of
our business,” Hering said in an interview.  Volpi sees Android running as much as 65 percent of
smartphones, e-readers and tablet computers globally in three to
four years. Today, the Google software has about a fifth of the
tablet market, according to  Strategy Analytics .  “Most of us will have one tablet and one phone, and maybe
one reader,” Volpi said. “Not every child will have a PC, but
every child will have a tablet. You’ll have much greater reach
in demographics, such as the young and the elderly.”  Market Share    Will Stofega , program director at research firm IDC in
Framingham,  Massachusetts , said Android may grab as much as 60
percent of the markets for smartphones and more basic phones in
three to four years. Unlike rival operating systems, including
Apple’s iOS, Android works on both high- and low-end models. As
consumers in India and  China  snap up inexpensive smartphones,
Android should enjoy faster growth than other operating systems,
Stofega said.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , rose $3.65 to
$628.15 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
The shares have climbed 5.8 percent this year.  Volpi, who is based in  London , also serves on the board of
telecommunications-gear maker Ericsson AB. Previously, he was
CEO of Web TV service Joost and a senior vice president at
Cisco, the biggest provider of networking equipment. As chief
strategy officer, he helped Cisco acquire more than 70
companies.  He’s currently looking at startups that are developing
games for Android devices. Mobile-gaming companies focused on
Cupertino, California-based Apple have already proven to be a
goldmine. Gaming-industry market research firm  Newzoo BV 
conducted a survey in September, and among the 10,000
respondents worldwide, it found that almost 52 percent of
Americans who own portable Apple devices play games on them.  Tweeting a Book?  Volpi is also interested in e-reader technology for Android
devices that would make books more social.  “A reader today is a largely solitary experience,” Volpi
said. “Books right now don’t have a lot of social capabilities.
What if you could highlight a paragraph you liked and tweet
it?”  Early last year, Index was one of several VC firms to fund
mobile-payment service  Boku Inc. , which lets consumers buy extra
levels and virtual products in online games using their mobile-
phone number and charge the fees to their phone bill. The
company is developing an application for Android.  “Virtually every one of our companies we’ve invested in, we
are telling them, ‘You have to do Android,’” Volpi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  