-- 
India May Save Money Replacing Diesel With Wind, Hydro, World Bank Says

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-14T08:55:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/india-may-save-money-replacing-diesel-with-wind-hydro-world-bank-says.html
  India , which spent 1.7 billion
rupees a day ($37 million) subsidizing fuels in 2010, could
replace power produced from diesel with renewable sources at
one-third the cost of generation, the World Bank said.  The country’s entire wind, biomass and small hydropower
potential of 68,000 megawatts could be produced at 6 rupees a
kilowatt-hour compared with the 18 rupees a kilowatt-hour cost
of diesel generation, according to a World Bank  report .  The government subsidizes several fuels including cooking
gas. Diesel fuel’s subsidized cost has led to it being used
across India by companies and households for a back-up
generators for 20,000 megawatts of electricity a year amid a
chronic power shortage in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy.  “Reallocating the money that would have been spent buying
short-term power to investment in renewable energy can yield
significant savings,” the  World Bank  said in the study published
Feb. 11.  India spent an estimated 470 billion rupees for the nine
months ended Dec. 31 subsidizing fuels, Oil Minister Jaipal Reddy said Jan 31. That calculates to 1.7 billion rupees a day.  Better  Energy Security   Switching to renewable sources would also ensure better
energy security, the World Bank said.  Renewable-energy projects provide a “hedging mechanism
against price volatility of fossil fuels” because plants aren’t
vulnerable to the escalating fuel costs that conventional coal,
oil or gas utilities face, the report said.  The costs of renewable energy, adjusted to account for that
lower risk, are less than those for power produced from fossil
fuels, it said.  Small hydropower is largely untapped and is the most
economically viable at 3.56 rupees a kilowatt-hour, followed by
biomass-based generation at 4.6 rupees a kilowatt-hour and wind-
based generation at 4.9 rupees a kilowatt-hour, it said.  India, the world’s fifth-largest producer of clean energy,
has 62,000 megawatts of renewable potential that could be
economically feasible “when the environmental premiums on coal
are brought into consideration,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 