-- 
Intel Begins Sampling Medfield Smartphone Chip in Mobile Push

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-02-14T13:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/intel-begins-sampling-medfield-smartphone-chip-in-mobile-push.html
  Intel Corp ., seeking a foothold in
the mobile-phone market, said it began providing prospective
customers with samples of a new processor specifically designed
for handsets.  The chipmaker expects to ship its Medfield processor later
this year, the  Santa Clara , California-based company said in a
statement. Intel is making announcements at the Mobile World
Congress show this week in Barcelona.  Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, is trying to parlay
its dominance in the personal-computer market -- where more than
80 percent of machines are based on its chips -- into orders in
the faster-growing phone and tablet businesses. Despite more
than 10 years spent trying to woo mobile-phone makers and
billions of dollars of investments, there isn’t a phone
currently on sale that uses Intel chips.  Separately, the company said it has speeded up development
of phone radio chips and will be making available ones that can
connect with the latest high-speed networks from the second half
of this year. Intel acquired Infineon Technologies AG’s wireless
unit last year to be able to add phone modem chips to its
processors.  In December, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  said his
company’s chips will start to appear in “premier” smartphone
makers’ products from the second half of this year. He declined
to name any customers. The company has previously announced
agreements with Nokia Oyj and  LG Electronics Inc . that have not
yet resulted in handsets on the market.  The market for chips that run the radios in mobile phones,
called digital signal processors, is dominated by  Qualcomm Inc .
Qualcomm, Texas Instruments Inc. and Nvidia Corp. dominate
orders for so-called applications processors, the chips that run
programs in phones. Intel is entering that field by scaling down
its PC chips to create a product called Atom.  Intel fell 4 cents to $21.76 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading on Feb. 11. The stock has gained 3.5
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  