-- 
Investors Boost Bullish Gold Bets as Egypt Turmoil Fuels Demand

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-02-14T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/investors-boost-bullish-gold-bets-as-egypt-turmoil-fuels-demand.html
  Hedge funds  are piling back into New
York gold futures and options as turmoil in  Egypt  sent bullish
bets on the metal to the highest since April 2010, government
data show. Holdings in silver also increased.  Managed-money funds held net-long positions, or wagers on
rising prices, totaling 145,846 contracts on the Comex as of
Feb. 2, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed on
Feb. 11. The holdings jumped 17 percent, after five straight
weeks of declines.  Gold rallied 0.8 last week, the biggest price gain since
December, as protests in Egypt forced President  Hosni Mubarak  to
flee the country after 30 years in power. In January, the metal
dropped 6.1 percent as an improving world economy eroded gold’s
appeal as a haven investment. Prices have rallied for 10
straight years, touching a record $1,432.50 an ounce on Dec. 7.  “You’re seeing a renewed interest in gold from speculative
money who put the brakes on the metal earlier this year,” said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at Lind-Waldock in  Chicago . “There’s turmoil in Egypt, and inflation is heating
up. Investment advisers and money managers are ready to put
their money back to work. People are more comfortable jumping
back into gold after a correction.”  Gold futures for April delivery settled on Feb. 11 at
$1,360.40, after rallying to a three-week high of $1,369.70
during the session.  Investments in exchange-traded products backed by gold fell
to 2,019.4 metric tons as of last week, down 0.6 percent since
January, when holdings plunged 3.1 percent, the biggest decline
since April 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show. ETPs trade on
exchanges, with each share representing metal held in a vault.
They accounted for 21 percent of investment demand last year,
according to GFMS Ltd., a London-based research firm.  Silver Holdings  Bullish silver holdings by managed-money funds totaled
29,742 contracts, up 27 percent from the previous week and the
highest total since November, CFTC data show. Silver settled
Feb. 11 at $29.995 an ounce on the Comex, capping three straight
weeks of gains.  This year, silver rose to $31.275 on Jan. 3, the highest in
30 years, before dropping as low as $26.30 on Jan. 28.  “We’re more bullish on silver than gold because of its
industrial component,” said  Barry James , the president of James
Investment Research Inc. in Xenia,  Ohio , which manages about
$2.5 billion.  “After silver’s dipsy doodle, it’s creeped right back to
where it started the year,” said James, who has reduced the
fund’s holdings of silver and gold to about 2.5 percent from 7.5
percent in the fourth quarter. “We’re more neutral than bullish
on gold and don’t expect it to pick up steam and race to a new
record. The dollar will probably recover and show some
strength.”  Managed-money positions include hedge funds, commodity-
trading advisers and commodity pools. Analysts and investors
follow changes in speculator positions because such transactions
may reflect an expectation of a shift in prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in  Seattle  at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  