-- 
Iran Cheers Egypt, Tunisia Revolts as Ahmadinejad Stifles Domestic Dissent

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-02-14T17:09:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/iran-cheers-egypt-tunisia-revolts-as-ahmadinejad-stifles-domestic-dissent.html
  Iran ’s rulers are applauding Arab
people power as it sweeps away hostile regimes, and cracking
down on domestic opponents who today attempted a repeat of the
mass protests that roiled the Islamic republic in 2009.  Hours before President  Hosni Mubarak  stepped down on Feb.
11 and Cairo reverberated with cheers, President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , in a speech to mark the 32nd anniversary of Iran’s
Islamic revolution, said Egypt’s uprising heralded “a new
Middle East” without Israeli and U.S. interference. A week
earlier, at Friday prayers in Tehran, Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei said that “the Iranian nation is witnessing the echo
of its voice in other parts of the Muslim world.”  Iranian opposition groups, who accuse Khamenei and
Ahmadinejad of resembling the ousted Arab leaders in their
defiance of popular demands, were met with tear gas and baton
charges when they held a rally in Tehran today in solidarity
with the regime-changers in  Egypt , Al Jazeera television said.  Mubarak and  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali were labeled
U.S. lapdogs by Iran for repressing religious groups or opposing
its nuclear program. Khamenei and Ahmadinejad ordered a
crackdown on the 2009 protests that left dozens dead and
thousands in jail. They also face complaints about scarce jobs
and high prices, as well as a lack of civil and democratic
rights, that resemble those voiced by the Arab demonstrators.  ‘Power Vacuum’  “The Islamic republic will seek to capitalize on any form
of temporary power vacuum” in U.S. allies shaken by protests,
said Gala Riani, a Middle East analyst at London-based
forecaster IHS  Global Insight . Domestically, “the opposition is
a lot weaker now and the regime is well prepared for any type of
protests,” she said.  “It doesn’t mean that it is safe if the economy
deteriorates, and it probably will,” Riani said.  Thousands of security officers were deployed in Tehran
today to stop separate groups of demonstrators, rallying
throughout the city, from converging on the central Azadi
Square,  Al Jazeera  said. Mir Hossein Mousavi, a candidate beaten
by Ahmadinejad in the 2009 presidential election who then backed
mass protests against the result, has had his phone lines cut
and police vehicles blocking his street in the past two days,
opposition website Kaleme said.  Any revival of unrest in Iran, which holds the world’s
fourth-biggest oil reserves, has the potential to push crude
prices higher. That didn’t happen in the days of clashes after
Iran’s June 2009 election, when the global recession was
depressing demand. Crude rose as much as 7 percent in the first
week of Egypt’s revolt, though it has been decreasing since. The
Iranian revolution of 1979 caused prices to more than double.  Competing Claims  As Iran’s authorities claim credit for inspiring the Arab
uprisings, the opposition says they mirror its own protests
demanding democracy and economic change. The Green Movement,
born out of objections that Ahmadinejad’s re-election was
rigged, swelled into mass demonstrations in major cities.
Khamenei called the protesters tools of foreign powers, a charge
also leveled by Egyptian authorities in the past two weeks.  While Iran’s state television broadcast historical footage
from the Islamic revolution intercut with scenes from the Cairo
protests, opposition leaders saw an opportunity to renew their
attack on Ahmadinejad and Khamenei. They applied to hold a rally
today “to express solidarity with the people’s movement in the
region against their oppressive regimes.”  Iran’s judiciary warned that such a demonstration would be
seen as a “political act” requiring counter-measures by
authorities. Mousavi and Mehdi Karrubi, another leader of the
2009 protests, have underlined a parallel between the Egyptian
uprising and the one they led.  ‘Quasi-Coup’  “What took place over the vote outcome and after the
quasi-coup by authoritarians took away the people’s fundamental
right to choose their fate,” they wrote in a  statement 
published on Feb. 8.  Iran and Egypt don’t have diplomatic ties and since 1979,
the year of Iran’s revolution and Egypt’s peace treaty with
Israel, they have been on opposite sides of the Middle East
divide. Iran supports Hamas, the militant Islamic movement that
rules the  Gaza Strip , and the Shiite Hezbollah group in Lebanon,
both labeled as terrorists by the U.S. and  Israel .  Egypt has criticized  Iran’s nuclear program , which led the  United Nations  to impose four rounds of sanctions. Mubarak also
cooperated with Israel to impose a blockade on Gaza and
supported Hezbollah’s pro-American rivals. Egypt’s biggest
opposition group, the Muslim Brotherhood, has historical links
with Hamas.  Subsidies Phased Out  Iranians confront economic hardships, including rising
prices and unemployment, resembling those that helped spark
uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia.  Since the government started phasing out subsidies two
months ago, gasoline prices have surged sevenfold. Utilities and
basic food products such as wheat, rice and sugar are also
included in the five-year program. The inflation rate was 10.8
percent in the 12 months through January.  “The economic fallout from the recent subsidy reductions
is yet to be fully felt by the population,” said Robert Powell,
an analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit in  New York .
“Arguably, it is this rather than the revolt in North Africa
that could precipitate any future mass protests.”  Youth unemployment rose to 25 percent in the Iranian
calendar year ending last March, from 23 percent the year
before, according to the country’s Statistics Center. Overall
unemployment was 11.9 percent in 2009.  Political Ideas  The channels of exchange for political ideas between Iran
and Egypt may be less clear than either the Iranian government
or its opposition movement suggest.  Less than one-fifth of Egyptians have a favorable view of
Iran or its ally Hamas, according to preliminary results of a
study by New Jersey-based Pechter Middle East Polls, conducted
on behalf of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy and
published Feb. 9. The survey was based on almost 350 interviews
between Feb. 5 and Feb. 8 and cited a margin of error of 6
percent.  Iranians, meanwhile, “have traditionally not looked toward
the Arab world for political inspiration,” said Trita Parsi, an
Iran scholar and president of the  Washington-based National
Iranian American Council , though he added that in the case of
the current protests, “you can’t rule it out.”  ‘Mistake of 1979’  The harshness of Iran’s response is one reason the 2009
protests petered out, Parsi said. Others include the larger
number of “stakeholders” in the Islamic republic’s survival,
and fear among Iranians of a repeat of “the mistake of 1979,”
replacing one repressive system with another, he said.  Neither Mubarak nor Ben Ali possessed “a massive force
with an ideological commitment to the regime that is willing to
use brutal violence against the civilian population over a
prolonged period,” he said. Also, Tunisian and Egyptian
protesters coalesced around the single goal of ousting leaders,
and “put all their focus and efforts on that step,” he said.
“The Iranians were thinking several steps ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  