-- 
Ivory Coast Cashew-Monitoring Body Calls for Halt in Shipments of the Nuts

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-02-14T18:13:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/ivory-coast-cashew-monitoring-body-calls-for-halt-in-shipments-of-the-nuts.html
A committee that monitors the cashew
industry in  Ivory Coast , Africa’s second-biggest producer of the
nuts, called for a halt in exports of the commodity in an
attempt to cut off funds to incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo .  The Cotton and Cashew Monitoring Committee, created in 2003
by the  New Forces  rebel group, does not want the money from
cashew exports to contribute financially to Gbagbo’s government,
Boh Soro, transport director of the committee, said by phone
today from Bouake, the main town in northern Ivory Coast.  “We ask exporters to find a way to stock the nuts for the
moment,” he said. The New Forces support Alassane Ouattara, the
internationally recognized winner of a Nov. 28 presidential
election. Gbagbo refuses to cede power to Ouattara, alleging
fraud in parts of the country’s north.  The insurgent group was formed in 2002 when mutinous
soldiers split from the army and left the country divided in a
rebel-held north and government-controled south following a
civil conflict.  Ivory Coast ’s cashew and cotton crop is largely
grown in the northern half of the country.  The call for an export ban follows Ouattara’s demand that
cocoa and coffee shippers halt sending their beans overseas for
a month in a bid to starve Gbagbo of export revenue.  Export taxes for the 2011 cashew season may be 4 billion  CFA francs  ($8.2 million) as Ivory Coast targets production of
more than 400,000 metric tons of the nuts, the Abidjan-based
L’Inter newspaper reported, citing Alphonse Soro, president of
the monitoring committee.  No one at the state-controled Cashew and Cotton Regulatory
Authority, which rivals the New Forces’ committee, was available
to comment when contacted today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net .
NI IVORY
NI POL
NI AGR
NI CMD
NI CMDX
NI FOD
NI FBR
NI COCOA
NI COFFEE
NI ELECT
NI GOV
NI GOVMISC
NI WAR
NI ECOWAS
NI TRD
NI AME
NI EM
NI  AFRICA 
NI AFRICAX 