-- 
Mizuho May Tap BlackRock Stake to Buy Asset Managers

-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 
2011-02-15T08:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/mizuho-may-leverage-blackrock-stake-to-buy-asia-asset-firms.html
  Mizuho Financial Group Inc ., Japan’s
third-largest bank by market value, may seek to buy investment
advisory firms in  Asia  with  BlackRock Inc . after purchasing a
stake in the world’s biggest asset manager last year.  Mizuho is studying ways to deepen ties with New York-based
BlackRock to aid a strategy of investing Japanese pension money
in faster-growing Asian economies, Yasuhiro Sato, president of
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., said in an interview.  The Tokyo-based bank aims to leverage the 2 percent stake
in BlackRock it bought for $500 million in November to compete
with larger rival  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc ., which
tied up with  Barclays Plc  last year in  wealth management . The
number of millionaires in the Asia-Pacific region reached 3
million in 2009, matching those in  Europe  for the first time,
according to data from Capgemini SA and  Bank of America Corp .’s
Merrill Lynch & Co. unit.  “The stake in BlackRock alone wouldn’t be enough to manage
a substantial amount of money in Asia,” Sato said on Feb. 8.
“Acquisitions of management firms in the region will be the
next step.”  Sato didn’t specify how an acquisition made together with
BlackRock would be structured.  Mizuho rose 0.5 percent to 171 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
Tokyo Stock Exchange trading. Japan’s Topix index gained 0.4
percent.  Household Assets  After agreeing to invest $1.2 billion in Merrill Lynch in
January 2008, Sato held talks with BlackRock Chief Executive
Officer Laurence D. Fink about selling the New York-based firm’s
services in Japan, he said. At the time, Merrill Lynch owned a
stake in BlackRock. Merrill Lynch agreed to sell itself to Bank
of America in September 2008 as the global credit crisis
deepened.  “Mizuho’s ties with BlackRock through the previous
investment in Merrill are beneficial and vital to boosting its
asset management businesses,” said Hironari Nozaki, a Tokyo-
based analyst at Citigroup Global Markets Japan.  Japan’s household assets, including pension savings,
totaled about 1,400 trillion yen ($17 trillion), according to
Sato. He hopes to tap BlackRock’s know-how to sell investment
products in Asia outside of Japan.  Sumitomo Mitsui, Japan’s second-biggest lender, targets
about 600 billion yen in wealth management assets through its
alliance with Barclays. Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co.’s Nikko
Asset Management Co. unit in December agreed to buy DBS Asset
Management from  DBS Group Holdings Ltd . for S$137 million ($107
million).  Mizuho Financial owns a 0.3 percent stake in Bank of
America after the conversion of preferred Merrill Lynch stock it
bought in 2008, according to the Japanese bank. Mizuho will take
“time” to determine whether to maintain its stake in Bank of
America and deepen ties with the U.S. lender or to sell the
shares, Sato said without elaborating.  “There’s no incentive to sell the shares or break up our
relations right now because I expect future U.S. economic growth
to more than double Bank of America’s share price,” said Sato.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  