-- 
Japan Economy Shrinks Less-Than-Estimated 1.1%, Surpassed by China in 2010

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-02-14T02:03:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/japan-s-economy-shrank-at-1-1-annual-pace-gdp-surpassed-by-china-in-2010.html
Japan’s gross domestic product fell
less than estimated in the fourth quarter in a pullback that may
prove temporary as overseas demand revives production after the
nation fell behind  China  as the world’s second-largest economy.  The annualized 1.1 percent drop in GDP in the three months
through December was driven by a slowing in exports and fading
of government stimulus programs, Cabinet Office figures showed
today in Tokyo. The median forecast of 26 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 2 percent drop.  Japan’s stocks rallied amid confidence the global economic
recovery will strengthen as oil prices retreat and international
political tensions subside with the resignation of Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak . The rebound is set to benefit Japanese
exporters, with Toyota Motor Corp. and Komatsu Ltd. this year
raising profit forecasts because of increasing sales abroad.  “This was just a temporary contraction and growth may
accelerate more than investors anticipate this quarter and
next,” said  Kyohei Morita , chief economist at  Barclays Capital 
in Tokyo, who forecast a 1.3 percent decline. “The export
decline was smaller than expected and shipments will keep
expanding as long as  Asia ’s economies continue to boom.”  The  Nikkei 225  Stock Average has risen 4.5 percent this
year, and advanced 0.8 percent as of 10:51 a.m. in Tokyo today.
Japan’s benchmark 10-year government bond yields have also
climbed since the start of 2010, reaching a 10-month high of
1.35 percent last week. They slipped today to 1.30 percent.
Japan’s currency traded at 83.35 per dollar. The yen reached a
15-year high of 80.22 on Nov. 1.  Trade Impact  Net exports, or shipments less imports, subtracted 0.1
percentage point from GDP, beating economists’ estimates of a
0.2 point drop. Overseas shipments declined 0.7 percent, also
better than forecasts for a 1.6 percent decline. Imports dropped
0.1 percent compared with a forecast for a 0.9 percent decline.  GDP will expand 0.6 percent in the first quarter and
accelerate to a 1.9 percent pace by the final three months of
2011, according to the median estimates of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before today’s report.  Private consumption dragged down GDP after the government
ended a subsidy program to buy fuel-efficient cars in September
and reduced incentives to purchase electronic home appliances in
December, a program that will end in March.  “This was a temporary pullback from the stimulus boosts in
the third quarter, so we don’t need to be too pessimistic about
the economic outlook,” said  Susumu Kato , chief economist for
Japan in Tokyo at Credit Agricole CIB and CLSA. “The economy
will likely gain traction toward the end of this year.”  Corporate Forecast  Toyota Motor, the world’s largest carmaker, last week
raised its full-year profit forecast by 40 percent as sales in
Asia and other emerging markets exceeded its estimates. Komatsu,
the world’s second-largest maker of construction equipment, last
month also raised its earnings forecast after increasing demand
in Asia helped third-quarter profit more than triple.  “Japan bottomed out in the fourth quarter,”  Yuichi Kodama ,
an economist at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co., Japan’s third-
biggest life insurer, said before the report.   China’s economy 
is already showing signs of resurgence and the U.S. is
rebounding, building up expectations of an export-led revival in
Japan.”    Capital investment  gained 0.9 percent in the fourth quarter
from the previous three months.  Consumer spending , which
accounts for more than half of GDP, fell 0.7 percent after the
government scaled back stimulus measures that drove growth in
the third quarter.  China’s Rise  China’s $5.88 trillion GDP surpassed Japan’s $5.47 trillion
in 2010, the Cabinet Office said today. Economic and Fiscal
Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said China’s expansion is a
“welcome development.”  Government data released in the past month showed that
machinery orders rose for the first time in four months in
December, signaling a recovery in companies’ capital spending,
while industrial production increased the most in 11 months and
export growth accelerated.  “Companies are looking abroad to expand their production
bases rather than increasing domestic business investment,”
said Hiroshi Shiraishi, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo.
“The recovery in  capital spending  could be weak.”  In an effort to bolster private demand, the  Bank of Japan 
lowered its benchmark interest rate close to zero and has
purchased financial assets ranging from corporate debt to
exchange-traded funds. The central bank has pledged to keep
rates on hold until the end of deflation is in sight.  BOJ Policy  “If the yen resumes its gains or Japan finds it difficult
to emerge from deflation by the end of fiscal 2011, there could
be calls for further monetary easing,” said  Norio Miyagawa ,
senior economist at Mizuho Securities Research and Consulting Co.
in　Tokyo.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , who is trying to generate
economic growth while keeping the world’s largest debt from
increasing, has so far failed to persuade opposition lawmakers
to agree on financing bills for his record 92.4 trillion yen
($1.1 trillion) budget for the year starting April. Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said Japan’s economy faces “the risk of
economic slowdown” if parliament fails to move.  The  GDP deflator , a gauge of price trends, fell 1.6 percent
in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, smaller than the 2.1
percent drop in the previous quarter. In nominal terms, the
economy contracted an annualized 2.5 percent in the fourth
quarter, today’s report showed.  “There should be an effective policy response to try to
address the fiscal deficit” said  Thomas Byrne , senior vice
president of Moody’s Investors Service, which has a stable
outlook on Japan’s Aa2 sovereign credit rating. “Any policy
drift or friction” that prevents passage of bills in parliament
“would be a credit-negative development,” he said in an
interview last week.    Standard & Poor’s  lowered its sovereign-debt rating for
Japan to AA- last month, the first reduction in nine years,
saying that Kan’s government lacks a “coherent strategy” to
reduce the country’s debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  