-- 
Lady Antebellum Wins Five Grammys, Arcade Fire Receives Album of the Year

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-02-14T19:15:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/jay-z-lady-gaga-collect-early-grammy-awards-for-rap-pop-performances.html
The Nashville trio Lady Antebellum
won five Grammys and Arcade Fire took home album of the year
honors at the music industry’s biggest awards show.  Jay-Z and Lady Gaga each won three awards at the Recording
Academy ceremony, telecast yesterday from Los Angeles by  CBS
Corp . The Grammys drew 26.7 million viewers, a 3.1 percent gain
from last year and the most since 2001, CBS said today, citing
Nielsen Co. data.  Lady Antebellum, formed in 2006, swept several country
categories including best album for “Need You Now,” and
snagged song of the year and record of the year for the title
track on a night of surprises. Best new artist Esperanza
Spalding and Arcade Fire each beat better-known competition.  “It was a good night for Nashville,” said Ted Cohen, a
former top digital executive at EMI Music whose Tag Strategic
advises companies on digital strategy. “Artistry was rewarded
in many categories over celebrity.”  Winning best song and best album was a “huge”
accomplishment for Lady Antebellum, Cohen said.  “It does feel like we’ve arrived,” said band member
Charles Kelley backstage. “We’re probably never going to have
another night like this in our career.”  Nominees and performers at the Grammys had an immediate
spike in album sales on  Apple Inc .’s iTunes the day after the
show. Nine of the  top-10 selling albums , including three from
Justin Bieber, are from Grammy artists. Sales of the Black Eyed
Peas jumped 25 percent after the group’s  Super Bowl  performance
on Feb. 6, Nielsen SoundScan said last week.  Top Upsets  Lady Antebellum, which records for EMI Group Plc’s Capitol
Records, was a 2009 nominee for best new artist and performed
last year. The band’s showing brings attention to London-based
EMI after it was taken over by lender  Citigroup Inc . this month.
The company is being targeted by suitors including  Warner Music
Group Corp .  In the top categories, upsets ruled. For record of the
year, Lady Antebellum was up against Eminem’s duet with Rihanna,
“Love the Way You Lie,” and the Jay-Z collaboration with  Alicia Keys , “Empire State of Mind.” For song of the year, the
band outdid Eminem, who was nominated in 10 categories.  Record of the year recognizes a track’s artists, engineers
and producers, while song of the year credits songwriters.  Arcade Fire overcame competition for album of the year from
Lady Gaga, Eminem and  Katy Perry . Spalding, a 26-year-old
bassist and jazz vocalist from  Portland ,  Oregon , was up against
better-known Drake and teen pop star Justin Bieber for best new
artist.  “Once this is over we’re all still colleagues and
friends,” Spalding said backstage. “I beat him but he sold
more records than me.”  Esperanza Spalding  The Grammys provided a showcase for other lesser-known
performers such as Cee Lo Green and singer Miranda Lambert, who
won for best female country performance for “The House That
Built Me.”  “I feel really lucky that I got acknowledged on this stage
in front of so many people that will hopefully go and experience
my music,” Spalding said.  Eminem, Jay-Z and Lady Gaga each had multiple wins. Arcade
Fire, based in  Montreal , was honored for its third album, “The
Suburbs.” The album, which had no single, was recorded for
 Merge  records, an independent label.  Eminem won the award for best rap solo and best rap album
for “Recovery,” which sold more than 3 million copies. The 38-
year-old entertainer, signed to  Universal Music Group ’s
Interscope Records, performed “Love the Way You Lie” with
Rihanna on the show.  Eminem  “I want to thank Rihanna too for helping to propel the
album to what it’s doing,” Eminem said. “Thank you to the
fans.”  Eminem, born Marshall Mathers, won 11 Grammys in previous
years, including best rap album for “Relapse” in 2009, “The
Eminem Show” in 2002, “The Marshall Mathers LP”  in 2000  and
1999’s “The Slim Shady LP.”  This year, Rolling Stones lead singer  Mick Jagger  performed
on the telecast for the first time.  Barbra Streisand  sang
“Evergreen,” and  Bob Dylan  played “Maggie’s Farm” with
Mumford & Sons, a best new-artist nominee, and the Avett
Brothers in a tribute to acoustic music. Cee Lo Green was joined
by the Muppets and Gwyneth Paltrow for “Forget You,” the G-
rated version of his song-of-the year nominee.  Aretha Franklin was honored with a show-opening tribute
from five singers that included Jennifer Hudson singing
“Respect” and Florence Welch of Florence & the Machine singing
“Think.”  Alicia Keys  Jay-Z and Alicia Keys were recognized for best rap song and
best rap collaboration for “Empire State of Mind.” Jay-Z,
whose given name is Shawn Carter, also was honored with Swizz
Beats for their performance of “On to the Next One” in the rap
duo or group category.  Lady Gaga, whose given name is Stefani Germanotta, won for
best pop vocal album for “The Fame Monster,” best female pop
performance and best short music video for the song “Bad
Romance.” The 24-year-old singer, signed to  Vivendi SA ’s
Universal Music, has sold 1.35 million copies of “The Fame
Monster,” released in November 2009, according to data from
Nielsen Soundscan.  Artists who released albums between Sept. 1, 2009 and Sept.
30, 2010 were eligible for this year’s awards.    Jeff Beck , the 66-year-old guitarist who played with the
Yardbirds, won three Grammys -- for best rock instrumental
performance, best pop instrumental and best pop collaboration,
for work including “The Imagine Project” with Herbie Hancock.  The Grammy for best  Classical Contemporary  Composition went
to Michael Daugherty for “Deus Ex Machina,” edging out, among
others, Symphony No. 4 by Arvo Part, who dedicated the work to
jailed Russian oligarch  Mikhail Khodorkovsky .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ; 