-- 
Kate Middleton’s See-Through Dress May Fetch $16,000 at Auction

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-02-14T13:27:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/kate-middleton-s-see-through-fashion-show-dress-may-fetch-16-000-at-sale.html
A see-through dress that Royal
bride-to-be Kate Middleton wore at a charity fashion show is
expected to sell for as much as 10,000 pounds ($16,000) at an
auction in London next month.  Middleton wore the diaphanous knitted lace dress, designed
by Charlotte Todd, during the annual charity fashion show in
2002 at St. Andrew’s University, where she and  Prince William 
were students. The two of them were just friends before the
prince, who’d paid 200 pounds for a front-row seat, saw her
sashaying down the runway in Todd’s creation, according to the
U.K.’s Daily Mail newspaper.  “If it is true that my design helped change the prince’s
interest in Kate from platonic to romantic as has been reported,
then I am pleased to have played a part -- however minor,” said
Todd in a statement released today by the fashion specialists
 Kerry Taylor Auctions .  The dress -- originally designed as a skirt -- is being
sold by Todd on March 17, six weeks before the Royal wedding.
The lot will carry a low estimate of 8,000 pounds.  “There’s world fascination in anything to do with  Kate
Middleton  at the moment,” auctioneer Kerry Taylor said in an
interview. “Whoever is going to buy this dress is going to make
headline news. If you want to get publicity for yourself or your
museum, this is a good way to do it.”  The dress will be the first piece of Middleton memorabilia
that has appeared at auction, she said.  “Poor girl,” said Taylor. “I’m the first to do it, for
which I apologize in advance.”  Taylor’s “Passion for Fashion Auction” will also include
two evening dresses worn by Prince William’s late mother, Diana,
Princess of Wales. Designed by Zandra Rhodes and Catherine
Walker, these are expected to sell for 30,000 pounds to 40,000
pounds and 40,000 pounds to 60,000 pounds, respectively.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in  London  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 