-- 
Keira Knightley, Elisabeth Moss Star in London Lesbian Drama

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-02-14T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/keira-knightley-elisabeth-moss-dazzle-in-30s-lesbian-drama-london-stage.html
An actor needs a great role to show
what he or she is really made of. Keira Knightley earns her
acting chops with an impressive performance in the lesbian-
themed drama “The Children’s Hour” in  London .  She plays Karen Wright, a New England teacher in charge of
a school for girls in the 1930s. From the moment she sweeps in,
dressed in a sensible skirt and her hair in a severe side-part,
she exudes effortless authority over the fractious little
gigglers in her charge.  The second they leave, it’s a joy to see her frisk around
the room, behaving like a girl herself. Her colleague Martha
Dobie (Elisabeth Moss from “Mad Men”), joins in.  Things begin to go wrong when Mary Tyler (Bryony Hannah), a
damaged and manipulative student, tells her grandmother that the
two teachers are having an affair.  That’s when we see what Knightley can do when given
dramatic meat to chew. Her anger, despair and frustration stew,
each bubbling to the surface in turn, as she struggles to hold
her life together. She squirms when physical comfort is offered.
Reactions to every kind word or cruel taunt flit across her face
with the speed of thought.  Author Lillian Hellman keeps the tension up neatly in her
well-made, if creaky, 1934 play from the closeted era: Is the
accusation a lie, or not? Moss, who struggles to contain her
jealousy of Karen’s fiance, subtly keeps us guessing.  Venomous Rumors  If a few melodramatic plot twists show the cogs turning
behind the plot, it doesn’t detract from the powerful way in
which accusations are shown to poison and undermine every social
exchange, even between well-wishers. The climax, when it comes,
is powerful.  As the self-loathing accuser, the gawky and loose-limbed
Hannah flings herself around the stage like a rag doll: She’s
never comfortable in her own skin, flopping in and out of
chairs, wriggling about. The brutality and growing nervous
exultation she displays as her power increases is fascinating to
trace.  Oscar-winning Ellen Burstyn plays Mary’s grandmother
Amelia, who becomes the prime mover against Karen and Martha.
Aristocratic and dignified, she brings sympathy to a role that
easily could be reduced to primary colors.  Mark Thompson’s gray clapboard set starts out as a plain
battered schoolroom. With a few descending pillars and a
chandelier, it cleverly transforms into Amelia’s comfortable
parlor. Director Ian Rickson paces the action and keeps the
tension taut right to the end.  It says something that even among all this talent,
Knightley adds magical oomph to a chunky role. Rating: ****.  Pink Memories  There’s a different take on matters gay over at the Apollo
Theatre. U.S. actor Leslie Jordan presents a 90-minute camp
memoir in “My Trip Down the Pink Carpet.”  There are childhood memories of his southern Baptist
upbringing. “It was in these pews I learned to hate myself,”
he says. He moves to Hollywood, and gets some roles. There are
anecdotes about  George Clooney  (very sweet), and shooting an
advert with Boy George (very bitter). He tells how he bagged the
ultra-gay role of Beverley Leslie on “Will and Grace.”  There’s an obligatory descent into drink and drugs,
followed by a spell in rehab. Cue sentimental confessions.  It’s inoffensive stuff, even if presented with more
cheerleader perkiness than sharp comic timing.  The oddest element of the piece, apart from such a niche
show ending up in a sizeable West End theater, is the heard-it-
before quality. It’s all somehow cut and pasted to sound like
the memoirs of a grand Tinseltown survivor, in the manner of
Elaine Stritch or Bea Arthur.  Hey, Jordan’s 55. He needs to be around a bit longer to
earn that right -- and get toothier anecdotes. Rating: **.  “The Children’s Hour” is at the Comedy Theatre through
April 30. Information:  http://www.ambassadortickets.com  or
+44-844-871-7615.  “My Trip Down the Pink Carpet” is at the Apollo Theatre
until Feb. 19,  http://www.nimaxtheatres.com  or +44-844-412-4658.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 