-- 
Kerkorian to Transfer $200 Million Lincy Fund to UCLA

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-02-14T21:18:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/kerkorian-to-transfer-200-million-fund-to-ucla-for-research.html
  Kirk Kerkorian , the billionaire
investor in  MGM Resorts International , will transfer his $200
million charitable foundation to the University of  California ,
Los Angeles.  The Lincy Foundation’s assets will establish the Dream
Fund, to be managed by the UCLA Foundation and used to support
medical research and academic programs at the university as well
as other “charitable projects throughout the  United States ,”
the school said in a statement on its  website  today. UCLA is
part of the 10-campus  University of California  system, which
faces $500 million in budget cuts.  Kerkorian, 93, is the chief executive officer of the
Tracinda Corp., which owns 27 percent of MGM Resorts, the casino
company that operates the Bellagio and Mirage hotels in  Las
Vegas . The Lincy Foundation was founded in 1989 and has given
more than $1.1 billion to schools, hospitals and Armenian
charities, according to the statement. The Lincy Foundation and
Tracinda are named after Kerkorian’s daughters, Tracy and Linda.  “The UCLA Foundation and the entire UCLA community are
grateful for a magnificent act of support by a private
foundation,” said UCLA Chancellor Gene Block in a statement.
“Mr. Kerkorian and The Lincy Foundation have a long history of
major charitable giving, and the UCLA Foundation is honored to
have been entrusted to continue their mission.”  Donor-Advised Fund  UCLA will manage the money as a “donor-advised fund,”
with no less than 50 percent of the proceeds going to UCLA and
the rest to be spent in  Los Angeles  and around the U.S., said
Rhea Turteltaub, vice chancellor of external affairs for UCLA,
in a telephone interview today. A committee composed of UCLA and
community leaders will be formed to solicit inquiries from
charities.  The university system has no set purpose for the funds and
may use the money for scholarships, faculty and research, most
likely as a stimulus to prompt other gifts, Turteltaub said.  “What’s great about a gift of this nature is that it’s
flexible, but it wouldn’t go into basic operating funds,”
Turteltaub said. “This isn’t budgetary replacement money.”  UCLA received $100 million from Meyer and Renee Luskin on
Jan. 26 for the School of Public Affairs and to build a
conference center.  UCLA, founded in 1919, has 26,687 students. Graduates
include  Kareem Abdul-Jabbar , the former professional basketball
player, and Michael Ovitz, former chairman of the Creative
Artists Agency Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  