-- 
Khodorkovsky Judge Denies Aide’s Claim He Didn’t Write Verdict

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-02-14T11:39:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/khodorkovsky-judge-denies-aide-s-claim-he-didn-t-write-verdict.html
The judge in Mikhail Khodorkovsky’s
oil theft trial, Viktor Danilkin, denied an assistant’s claim
that he didn’t write the guilty verdict that may keep the former
Yukos Oil. Co. chief executive officer behind bars until 2017.  Natalya Vasilyeva, a judge’s assistant and spokeswoman for
Moscow’s Khamovniki District Court, said in an  interview  with
the Gazeta.ru Internet news service today that the Dec. 30
verdict had been handed down by judges at Moscow City Court,
which oversees the capital’s district courts.  Danilkin told Interfax that Vasilyeva’s statement is
“nothing short of slander” and can “only be refuted” by
filing a lawsuit against her. The judge’s comments were
confirmed by Anna Usachyova, a spokeswoman for Moscow City
Court.  Danilkin found Khodorkovsky, once  Russia ’s richest man,
guilty of  money laundering  and embezzling oil and sentenced him
to a total of 14 years in prison, including the eight years he
is serving on previous charges. Khodorkovsky has called the
charges retribution for his opposition to then President  Vladimir Putin . Defense lawyers filed a preliminary appeal on
Dec. 31.  Vasilyeva told Gazeta.ru that Danilkin began to write a
verdict, which wasn’t acceptable to his superiors, so a
different verdict was sent to him. The “entire judicial
community” knew that the case against Khodorkovsky was “ordered”
from above, Vasilyeva told Gazeta.ru.  Usachyova said Vasilyeva had submitted her resignation
before she gave the interview to Gazeta.ru and then went on
vacation.  “This is someone’s carefully planned PR stunt,” Usachyova
said by telephone. Vasilyeva’s decision to resign before
speaking publicly about the trial “can only lead to doubts
about her sincerity,” Usachyova said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  