-- 
Korea Resources Submits Preliminary Bid for Australia's Whitehaven Coal

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-02-14T08:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/korea-resources-submits-preliminary-bid-for-australia-s-whitehaven-coal.html
Korea Resources Corp. and  Daewoo
International Corp ., the trading company controlled by Posco,
made an initial bid for  Whitehaven Coal Ltd ., an Australian
producer with a market value of A$3.6 billion ($3.6 billion).  The two companies made a preliminary offer, Kang Shin Young,
a spokesman for state-run, Seoul-based Korea Resources, said
without giving details. Korea Resources is leading the bid, Kim Beom Suk, a spokesman for Daewoo International, said today by
phone. Whitehaven, which offered itself for sale in October,
short-listed potential buyers this month.  Demand for coal from steel and power producers has spurred
mining companies to seek assets worldwide, with deals worth $38
billion announced in the past year. Whitehaven, which produces
both energy and steelmaking coal, may be looking for offers
greater than A$3.7 billion, UBS AG said in a report last month.  “Everyone wants a slice of the coal market,” Lucinda Chan,
division director and head of Asian business at Macquarie
Private Wealth in Sydney said by phone. “Commodity prices are
expected to be strong, so there’s a lot of interest as coal is a
highly used commodity.”  Whitehaven rose 2 percent to A$7.24 at the 4:10 p.m. close
of trade in Sydney, the highest since June 1, 2007. It has
climbed 13 percent since opening its books to potential bidders
on Oct. 29. Daewoo International rose 0.4 percent to close at
36,950 won in Seoul trading.  Whitehaven won’t comment on which parties have made bids,
Managing Director Tony Haggarty said by phone.  Global Takeovers  Overseas companies have targeted coal producers in  Australia , the world’s biggest exporter of the fuel, with
Citigroup Inc. saying in a Feb. 11 note that Asian utilities may
have to pay record prices for the fuel after flooding disrupted
output.  Australia ranks second behind the U.S. as a target for coal
takeovers in the past year with deals worth $8 billion announced,
compared with $12.5 billion in the U.S., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In the most expensive deal in the
industry’s history,  Alpha Natural Resources Inc . agreed Jan. 29
to buy  Massey Energy Co . for $7.1 billion in cash and stock.  Whitehaven’s board is likely to be “looking for a price
north of” A$7.50 a share, a group of analysts at UBS, led by  Glyn Lawcock , said in a Jan. 31 note, equating to a 17 percent
premium to Whitehaven’s last closing price before announcing the
official sales process.  Mine Development  Whitehaven is developing the Narrabri mine in Australia’s
New South Wales state, where first-phase shipments began in July.
It also owns 11 percent of Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Group,
a port development that commissioned 30 million metric tons of
export shipping capacity last March. A further 23 million tons
is due to become available in mid-2012.  Korea Resources and Daewoo already own a 7.5 percent stake
of Whitehaven’s Narrabri operations.  Posco ,  South Korea ’s
largest steelmaker, owns 67.91 percent of Daewoo International,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co.,
named as another bidder by the Australian Financial Review on
Feb. 8, today said in an e-mailed statement that it hadn’t made
an offer for Whitehaven.  The price for thermal coal at the port of Newcastle in New
South Wales, the benchmark for  Asia , rose to $138.50 a metric
ton in the week ended Jan. 14, the highest since September 2008,
according to IHS McCloskey, a Petersfield, U.K.-based provider
of data. It was at $126.75 in the week ended Feb. 4.  Coal Prices  While prices of the fuel for immediate delivery “have
eased back” after increasing to a two-year high last month,
“the focus will be on the longer-term outlook,” Citigroup said
in a Feb. 11 note. “We still see strong demand growth and
expect contract prices to be settled at record highs.”  Coal producers are being forced to spend more on
acquisitions to secure reserves in nations from Australia to  Mozambique  as consumption in  China  and the developing world
drives up prices.  A record $30 billion in deals may be completed in the
industry this year as acquirers pay an average 33 percent
premium, the highest in at least a decade and double the
historical average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  