-- 
U.S. Household Debt Shrank 1.3% in ‘Convalescence’

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-02-14T15:52:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/n-y-fed-says-debt-shrank-1-3-as-households-convalesce-.html
U.S. households reduced their
mortgage debt last quarter, even as borrowing for purposes other
than housing rose for the first time since the fourth quarter of
2008, according to a survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York .  Consumer indebtedness totaled $11.4 trillion at the end of
December, down $155 billion, or 1.3 percent, from the end of
September, according to the New York Fed’s quarterly report on  household debt  and credit. In the third quarter, households cut
debt by $110 billion. Consumers have reduced about $1.08
trillion of their debt since the peak in the third quarter of
2008, the New York Fed said today.  U.S. households, facing unemployment at 9 percent or higher
for the past 21 months, have slashed debt and increased savings
following the longest recession since the Great Depression,
leaving them on sounder footing to renew borrowing. The
deleveraging has pared  consumer spending  and slowed the economic
recovery.  “We appear to be entering a gradual convalescence, as
delinquencies begin to subside and some households begin to
expand their borrowing again,” said New York Fed President  William Dudley  in the text of remarks in New York.  Consumers Improving  Consumers are improving their household finances, the
report showed. Delinquency rates continued to decline, with 10.8
percent of outstanding debt in “some stage of delinquency,”
down from 11.1 percent at the end of September and 12 percent a
year earlier, according to the New York Fed. Household
delinquent debt fell 14 percent from the previous year to $1.2
trillion, the survey said.  The number of inquiries for credit accounts, an indicator
of consumer demand, rose for the third quarter in a row, the New
York Fed said. The number of open credit card accounts rose to
380 million from 378 million. The total number of accounts ended
its decline from a peak in the second quarter of 2008.  “We know that this phase is a gradual transition process,
not a quick event, as households and banks slowly complete their
painful adjustments,” Dudley said. “Once the adjustments are
completed, households can consume more and regain their access
to credit, and these developments help to support a more
vigorous economic recovery.”  Delinquency and Foreclosure    Arizona ,  California ,  Florida  and  Nevada  continued to have
higher-than-average delinquency and foreclosure rates, according
to the New York Fed. Nonetheless, the rates are falling faster
than elsewhere in the country.  The amount of new bankruptcies fell to 500,000 from 522,000
in the third quarter. The number is still 2.7 percent higher
than a year earlier, according to the New York Fed.  Mortgage originations rose 22 percent to $464 billion in
the fourth quarter and are 54 percent higher than their low in
the fourth quarter of 2008, the New York Fed said. They are
about 40 percent below their average levels from 2003 to 2007.  The report is based on data compiled by the New York Fed’s
Consumer Credit Panel, the statement said. The survey is drawn
from a “nationally representative” 5 percent random survey of
Equifax Inc. credit-report data, which encompass people with a
Social Security number and a credit report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  