-- 
New Zealand Dollar Declines as Retail Sales Slump; Aussie Erases Advance

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-02-14T17:45:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/new-zealand-dollar-weakens-after-retail-sales-dropped-more-than-estimated.html
  New Zealand ’s currency fell against
most of its major counterparts after retail sales slid in the
fourth quarter, adding to concern a slowing recovery will
discourage the central bank from raising  interest rates .  The Australian dollar pared gains against the greenback on
speculation the Aussie’s rally may be hard to sustain. The
currency rose earlier as approval of home loans in Australia
climbed in December more than twice the amount economists
forecast.  “There’s excessive long positioning in the Aussie and weak
economic fundamentals in New Zealand,” said  Imre Speizer , a
market strategist in Wellington, New Zealand, at Westpac Banking
Corp., Australia’s second-largest lender. “We have a weakening
bias for both Aussie and kiwi and have been expecting the
currencies to fall.”  New Zealand’s dollar fell 0.5 percent to 75.72 U.S. cents
at 12:44 p.m. in  New York , from 76.06 on Feb. 11. Australia’s
currency was little changed at $1.0034, compared with $1.0021,
after rising 0.5 percent to $1.0075.  The kiwi fell for a fourth consecutive day against the
greenback after Statistics New Zealand said retail sales,
adjusted for inflation, fell 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter,
matching the decline in previous quarter.  Swaps traders are betting the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand
will raise borrowing costs by 52 basis points over the next 12
months, down from 55 basis points last week, according to a
Credit Suisse Group AG index.  Aussie Bets  Futures traders increased bets the Australian currency will
gain versus the  U.S. dollar  to the highest level in almost 10
months, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the Australian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was
71,979 on Feb. 8, the highest level since April 20.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments in Australia advanced 2.1 percent in December, the
statistics bureau said today. That compared with the median
estimate for approvals to rise 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  