-- 
NFL Files Unfair-Labor Practices Complaint Against Union in Contract Talks

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-02-15T14:50:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/nfl-files-unfair-labor-practice-charge-against-union.html
The  National Football League  filed
an unfair labor practices complaint against its players’ union
with the  National Labor Relations Board , the latest dispute
between the two sides involving negotiations on a collective
bargaining agreement.  The league said the NFL Players Association isn’t
bargaining in good faith, using delays to “run out the clock”
on talks before disbanding the union and suing the league under
antitrust law for colluding to restrict pay. The NFLPA said the
league’s claim, filed yesterday, has “absolutely no merit.”  The NFL’s current labor deal expires March 3 and the union
has said it expects the league to lock out players. The NFL has
asked the NLRB -- a federal agency that enforces U.S. labor laws
-- for clarification on the rules governing the union’s
potential use of antitrust laws to block a lockout.  The NFL said the union’s threat to decertify is “a ploy
and an unlawful subversion of the collective bargaining process,
there being no evidence whatsoever of any (let alone widespread)
dissatisfaction with the union by its members.”  Officials at the NFL, the U.S.’s most-watched television
sport, said the NFLPA has sought to set up a court fight by
delaying meetings, failing to respond to proposals in a timely
manner and insisting on disclosure of financial information to
which it has no right.  ‘Fair, Long-Term Deal’  The players’ union says it’s not threatening a work
stoppage.  “Players want a fair, new and long-term deal,” the union
said in a statement sent by spokesman Carl Francis. “We have
offered proposals and solutions on every issue the owners have
raised.”  NFL owners voted in 2008 to opt out of the labor deal after
this season, saying it didn’t account for costs such as those of
building stadiums. Talks have included topics such as what share
of revenue players should get, expanding the season to 18 games
from 16, a rookie salary cap and health care.  Paul Haagen, who teaches contracts and sports law at Duke
University School of Law, said the league’s complaint aims to
clarify language governing how the union is certified. A
footnote “seeks the board’s detailed views” about how “the
union’s sham disclaimer” would affect how antitrust law applies
to the dispute.  ‘Tactical Whim’  “Your certification is not a tactical whim,” Haagen said
in a telephone interview. “You can’t simply drop in and out of
this. This is essentially a claim that the decertification would
be tactical.”  Players  decertified  the union two years after the last NFL
strike in 1987. The move triggered about 20 lawsuits, according
to the union, including the one that helped create free agency
in 1993. The union began  seeking authorization  for a
decertification from players at the beginning of last season.  The NFL and NFLPA last met for a negotiating session on
Feb. 9 in  Washington  and then canceled a meeting scheduled for
the next day. Commissioner Roger Goodell has scheduled a league
meeting for March 3 in Ft. Lauderdale,  Florida .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 