-- 
Nigerian Labor Groups Picket Union Bank's Offices, Allege Ban on Unionism

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-02-14T15:04:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/nigerian-labor-groups-picket-union-bank-s-offices-allege-ban-on-unionism.html
Nigerian labor unions picketed the
offices of Union Bank of  Nigeria  Plc to protest an alleged ban
on trade unionism by the Lagos-based lender, said Owei Lakemfa,
a spokesman for the Nigerian Labor Congress.  “We have been at their head office for hours now and we
have succeeded in stopping their operations here and other
branches,” Lakemfa said by phone from the commercial capital,
Lagos. “Across Nigeria, they have shut down their operations.”  At the bank’s head office on the Marina in Lagos, union
members barricaded the entrance with buses, and were drumming
and dancing on top of the vehicles. The picketing will last for
one week and forms the first stage of the NLC’s planned protests
against Union Bank, one of the lenders bailed out in 2009 by the
 Central Bank of Nigeria , Lakemfa said.  Union Bank has prevented workers from joining the
Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial
Institutions, NLC’s President Abdulwaheed Omar said in a
 statement  posted on the congress’s website on Feb. 10.  Francis Barde, the lender’s spokesman, declined to comment
on today’s action, saying the bank had obtained a court
injunction against the picketing and it was up to the court to
enforce that ruling.  “It’s the court that will be battling with that, as we
were given judgment and it was published in the papers.”  Lakemfa disputed the ruling, saying that “the case was at
the Industrial Arbitration Court for two years and no judgment
was given.”  Union Bank fell a second day, losing 7 kobo, or 1.6
percent, to 4.43 naira by the 2:30 p.m. close in Lagos, the
lowest since Feb. 9. The stock has risen 5.5 percent this year,
compared to a 7.4 percent increase in the Nigeria Stock Exchange
All Share Index over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
asguazzin@bloomberg. 