-- 
Nina Wang's Ex-Feng Shui Adviser, Lover Loses Bid for $12 Billion Estate

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-02-14T07:36:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/nina-wang-s-ex-feng-shui-adviser-lover-loses-bid-for-12-billion-estate.html
Nina Wang’s former feng shui adviser
and lover Tony Chan lost a bid for her $12 billion estate, with  Hong Kong ’s Court of Appeal upholding a ruling that a will in
his favor was forged and the property should go to charity.  Chan “has persisted in pursuing a thoroughly dishonest
case,” Judge Anthony Rogers said today on behalf of the three-
judge panel. “In so doing he has abused the process of the
court,” Rogers said.  Chan, 51, who is free on bail after being arrested on
suspicion of forgery, will appeal to Hong Kong’s highest court,
adding a further chapter to the world’s biggest probate  dispute .
Chan claimed Wang left him her fortune after a 15-year intimate
relationship that began when he was hired to help find her
kidnapped husband Teddy, with whom she built the  Chinachem Group 
into one of Hong Kong’s biggest closely held developers.  Chan “will file an appeal to the Court of Final Appeal as
soon as possible,” said his spokesman Kenis Liu today.  High Court Judge Johnson Lam’s ruling was tainted because
he was morally offended by Chan and Wang’s relationship, Chan’s
lawyer Ian Mill, had told the appeal panel. Lam dismissed Chan’s
claim and ruled the will was a forgery.  Chan was arrested on suspicion of forgery following Lam’s
ruling and freed on HK$5 million ($643,000) bail. Prosecutor
Richard Turnbull said today the criminal investigation into
Chan’s suspected forgery is continuing.  Charitable Foundation  Wang’s 2002 will, which the appeal judges said was
indisputably valid, bequeathed the estate to the foundation that
she created with Teddy in 1988. Supervision of the Chinachem
Charitable Foundation Ltd. was to be entrusted to a body formed
by the Secretary General of the  United Nations , the premier of  China  and the chief executive of Hong Kong, according to the
appeal  ruling .  The foundation would award Chinese prizes of worldwide
signficance, similar to that of the Nobel Prizes, according to
the judgment.  “There is justice in the world,” Nina’s brother and a
governor of the charity Kung Yan-sum said at a press conference
today after the decision.  The battle over the estate, described by its lawyers as the
world’s biggest probate dispute, mirrors an earlier fight Wang
waged for her husband’s fortune.  Previous Probate Fight  Wang won control of the estate in 2005 after Hong Kong’s
highest court ruled she didn’t conspire to forge her husband’s
will, overturning rulings by lower courts in 2002 and 2004 that
gave the fortune to her father-in-law, Wang Din-shin.  Wang was also arrested during her dispute over the title to
the property on charges she forged the will. Police dropped the
charges after the Court of Final Appeal’s ruling.  Wang, who died of uterine cancer at the age of 69 in 2007,
had no children. She married Teddy in 1955 at the age of 18.  The couple turned a Shanghai paint and chemical business,
started by Teddy’s father, into a property developer with a
portfolio including the Chinachem twin towers and Chinachem
Exchange Square.  Teddy Wang was kidnapped in 1983 and again in 1990. He
wasn’t returned after the second abduction even though his wife
paid part of the ransom. One of the captured kidnappers said
Teddy Wang’s body was dumped into the sea from a small boat.  Nina ran Chinachem using a power of attorney, insisting
Teddy was alive. When her father-in-law had Teddy legally
declared dead in 1999, she said Teddy had made her his heir in a
new will signed just before his kidnapping.  Chan, who is married with three children, was hired by Wang
in 1992 to help find her husband by using the Chinese geomantic
practice of feng shui, according to Lam’s judgment. Chan dug
holes at various sites owned by Chinachem for seven years, and
received about HK$2.1 billion from her between 2005 and 2006.  Chan’s lawyers said the payments were to groom him for
managing her fortune. Chan testified at last year’s trial that
his sexual relationship with Wang began a month after they met.  The case is between Chinachem Charitable Foundation Limited
and Chan Chun Chuen and the Secretary for Justice, CACV62/2010
in the Hong Kong High Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  