-- 
Nokia Shares Extend Losses After Analysts Lower Ratings, Price Estimates

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-02-14T12:14:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/nokia-shares-extend-losses-after-analysts-lower-ratings-price-estimates.html
  Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones, extended its losses in Helsinki trading after
analysts lowered their price estimates and stock ratings.  Nokia declined as much as 4.4 percent and was down 4
percent at 6.72 euros as of 2:12 p.m., bringing its losses to 18
percent since Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop’s Feb. 11
strategy presentation and paring the Espoo, Finland-based
company’s market value to 25.1 billion euros ($34 billion).  JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst Rod Hall cut his rating to
“underweight” from ”overweight” and its price estimate by 41
percent to 5 euros. Analysts at HSBC Holdings Plc lowered their
recommendation to “underweight” from ”neutral.” Elop said last
week that Nokia will adopt  Microsoft Corp .’s Windows Phone 7 as
its main smartphone platform, phasing out the Symbian software
that shipped on more than 100 million smartphones last year.  “We see delivery of even a single Windows Phone 7 device
as difficult by October, in time for a holiday ship-in,” Hall,
a San Francisco-based analyst with JPMorgan, wrote in a note.
“Even if this is achieved, we believe there is substantial risk
that such a rapidly developed device is buggy. For a substantial
change like this, it is imperative that the first device is
declared a success in the marketplace.”  ABG Sundal Collier cut its rating on the mobile-phone maker
to ”hold” from ”buy.” Swedbank lowered its recommendation to
“sell” from “buy.”  Market Share  Nokia’s decision to work with Microsoft is part of an
attempt to recover from a loss in competitiveness to  Apple
Inc .’s iPhone and  Google Inc .’s Android software.  The Finnish
company’s market share for smartphones fell to 27.1 percent in
the first quarter from 50.8 percent when Apple shipped its
iPhone in mid-2007, according to Gartner Inc. figures.  “We expect Nokia’s smartphone market share to collapse as
developers abandon Symbian support following Elop’s dismissive
comments about Symbian and Qt software platforms,” Tero Kuittinen, an analyst with Greenwich, Connecticut-based MKM
Partners who rates the stock “neutral,” wrote in a report. “By
the first quarter of 2012 we expect Nokia’s smartphone market
share to collapse below 15 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Barcelona via 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  