-- 
Oak-Aged Reposados Rescue Tequila From Icy Slush of Margaritas

-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 
2011-02-14T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/oak-aged-reposados-rescue-tequila-from-icy-slush-of-margaritas.html
Tequila sales quadrupled in a
decade, prompting more than 120 Mexican distilleries to offer
some 900 brands, with four out of five bottles ending up in the
U.S., usually in a margarita.  With sales growth slowing in the past couple of years,
especially among the cheaper brands, it’s time to take stock of
this distinctive spirit from the blue agave.  During the boom years, some tequilas achieved questionable
cult status, with a few, like  Gran Patron Burdeos , selling for
$600 a bottle. With sales leveling off, a big part of marketing
the drink has become the quirky bottles, from the Aztec pyramid
of Sol Dios and folkloric Day-of-the-Dead skull of KAH to the
heart-shaped  Corazon Maya  and squatting bandito ceramic jug of
Pancho Pistolas.  Mexican regulations allow a spirit to be called tequila if
it contains a minimum of 51 percent agave-derived sugar. Premium
tequilas, made with 100 percent agave, are showing modest
growth, with a 1.3 percent increase in 2009 to 11.2 million
cases, according to industry publication  StateWays .  I assembled a range of reposados, that is, tequilas aged in
oak barrels for a minimum of two months but less than a year.
They fall between the entry-level blancos, which aren’t aged at
all, and the richly flavorful anejos that spend one-to-three
years in the barrel.  Frozen Waste  On their own, reposados make for a delightful aperitif and
add considerably more flavor to a margarita than a blanco,
though if you insist on drinking diluted frozen margaritas, it
doesn’t much matter what kind of tequila you use. Anejos
certainly add their distinctive flavors to a margarita but are
best sipped on their own like cognac or single malt Scotch.
Almost all tequilas, including anejos, are bottled at 80 proof
(40 percent alcohol).  Sipping reposados, at room temperature or on the rocks,
also reveals layers of flavor, a little oakiness, and
fruitiness. Some are, perhaps, a bit more expensive than I
expected but certainly no more than a premium vodka or bourbon.
Here are some reposados, all made from 100 percent blue agave, I
found particularly distinctive.  Corralejo  ($43)  This one comes in an elegant, slender blue bottle, and I
liked the subtle flavors and the perfume scent of its bouquet.
There’s also a nice blast of heat I got on the tip of my tongue,
followed by a warming sensation throughout.  Chinaco  ($60)  Chinaco’s “Legacy of the Warrior Spirit” is, according to
the label, based on the heroic endeavors of Guillermo Gonzalez,
great-grandson of General Manuel Gonzalez, who battled against
the larger distillers and successfully lobbied the Mexican
government for an amendment that would allow tequila production
outside of Jalisco.  Made in the region of Tamaulipas, Chinaco has garnered
something of a cult status. It is pale yellow and very fruity,
with a distinct black peppercorn flavor on the mid-palate and a
sweetness on the edge of the tongue.  Pancho Pistolas ($60)  This is the one in the bottle shaped like a squatting
Mexican bandit, which I’ve actually seen offered, unopened, on
e-auctions as objets d’art. I didn’t expect much from such
gimmickry, but this is a very good tequila, with plenty of
fruity flavors and an honest bite on the back of the palate.  1800 Reposado  ($23)  I’ve always liked 1800’s anejo, and its reposado delivers a
good amount of flavor for a very decent price. If you’ve never
had a reposado, get this one and compare it with the lighter-
weight blancos.  4 Copas  ($60)  The name supposedly derives from an old Mexican song with
the line “we shall drink four cups,” although it’s also the
number of cups traditionally drunk at the Jewish Seder. Labeled
as “organic,” it is aged in charred American oak, which gives
it a smokiness to go with its honey-like smoothness. This is one
of the most highly regarded reposados in competitions, and it
deserves its medals.  Riazul  ($55)  This company’s blanco and anejo came on the market at the
end of 2008 and the reposado, aged nine months, a year later. It
is a very tasty tequila, fresh with citrus and pineapple notes
and good perfume in the nose, making it a fine choice for a
margarita straight up.    John Mariani  writes on wine for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 