-- 
Obama Says His 2012 Budget Will `Walk the Walk' on Reducing U.S. Deficit

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-02-14T15:34:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/obama-says-his-2012-budget-will-walk-the-walk-on-reducing-u-s-deficit.html
President  Barack Obama  said the $3.7
trillion 2012 budget that he sent to Congress today would cut
scores of government programs to provide more funding for top
priorities such as improving the U.S. education system.  “The only way we can make these investments in the future
is if our government starts living within our means," Obama
said, outlining key parts of the budget, his third since taking
office, while visiting a school near Baltimore.  The budget reduces funding for programs he cares ‘‘deeply
about,’’ Obama said, to meet his promise of cutting the deficit
by half during his first term in office. ‘‘If we’re going to
walk the walk when it comes to fiscal discipline, these kinds of
cuts will be necessary."  The president spoke to students at  Parkville Middle School
and Center of Technology , flanked by Education Secretary Arne Duncan and White House Budget Director  Jacob Lew . The school has
a focus on science and technology education and uses ‘‘hands-on
projects that leverage technology’’ in the classroom, according
to a White House statement.  Obama said in his Jan. 25  State of the Union address  that
the U.S. faces a new ‘‘Sputnik moment’’ that demands investments
in education and research to keep the nation economically
competitive. He called for an expansion of his  Race to the Top
program , spending to prepare 100,000 new math and science
teachers over the next decade, and a more flexible version of
the No Child Left Behind law to be passed this year.  Living Within Means  Yesterday on CNN’s ‘‘State of the Union’’ program, Lew said
‘‘we have to start living within our means.’’  About two-thirds of the savings in Obama’s budget would
come from a five-year spending freeze and cuts in domestic
programs and an additional one-third would come from revenue
increases, including limiting itemized  tax deductions  for the
wealthy.  Some savings would be diverted to increased spending in
education, research and development and technology to compete
against global rivals, create jobs and reduce the 9 percent
unemployment rate, Lew said in an interview yesterday.  Lew said that by 2015, the budget deficit would decline to
about 3 percent of  U.S. economy , from an estimate of about 9.8
percent this year, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .
Trimming the  budget deficit  to 3 percent of the nation’s gross
domestic product is a level most economists deem sustainable.  Political Center  The cuts reflect a White House shift toward the center of
the political spectrum as Obama prepares for a 2012 re-election
campaign, said Phillip Swagel, an economics professor at the  University of Maryland  and former assistant secretary for
economic policy in President  George W. Bush ’s Treasury
Department.  ‘‘We’re broke,” Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  said
on NBC’s “Meet the Press” yesterday, rejecting Obama’s five-
year freeze on domestic spending as inadequate. “Locking in
that level of spending is way too much,” he said.  Boehner said he sent  a letter  to Obama yesterday, signed by
150 economists, calling for deeper spending cuts in the current
fiscal year’s budget, still pending in Congress, that will
“help create a better environment so we can begin to create
jobs in our economy.”  Budget cuts, he said, “will bring more confidence to
business people and investors.”  House Republicans disclosed plans on Feb. 11 to end more
than 100 U.S. government programs in an effort to cut spending
by $61 billion in the budget for the fiscal year that ends Sept.
30. Lew, on  CNN , declined to say whether the White House would
support that package.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  said Obama’s
proposed 2012 budget lacks spending discipline.  “That is not where we’re going,” the Wisconsin Republican
said on the “Fox News Sunday” program yesterday. “We’re
debating how much to cut spending, not how much to increase
spending.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  