-- 
Obama Would Triple Guarantees for Nuclear Reactors

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-02-14T17:50:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/obama-would-triple-guarantees-for-building-nuclear-reactors.html
President  Barack Obama ’s 2012 budget
almost triples U.S. loan guarantees for nuclear power-plant
construction, funds development of a new breed of smaller
reactors and spends more on “breakthrough” energy research.  The Energy Department would get $29.5 billion, a 12 percent
increase, to support Obama’s proposed “clean-energy standard,”
which requires 80 percent of U.S. electricity to come from low-
pollution sources by 2035, according to the fiscal 2012 budget
released today. The proposed standard is part of Obama’s policy
“to ensure strong American leadership in the clean-energy
economy,” according to the budget plan.  A program that guarantees as much as $18.5 billion in loans
for construction of nuclear reactors would expand by $36 billion
in 2012, to backstop $54.5 billion in lending. An initiative to
develop designs for “small modular reactors” would get $67
million. Such reactors would be about a third the size of those
now used by U.S. power companies, according to the department.  “We don’t think nuclear loan guarantees are a very good
bet,” given the industry’s history of cost overruns, said
Robert Cowin, a Washington representative for the  Union of
Concerned Scientists  based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “The
$36 billion the president has proposed is excessive.”  Obama’s budget, which requires approval by Congress, would
also expand loan guarantees for energy-efficiency and renewable-
energy programs by as much as $2 billion.  Science Office  The department’s Office of Science, which has funded
research into subjects ranging from lithium batteries to the
human genome, would get $5.42 billion, up from $4.96 billion in
2010, the last enacted budget for the agency.  The Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy, which
Secretary Steven Chu refers to as a “swing for the fences”
program aimed at innovative technologies, would get $550
million, up from $400 million it received through the economic
stimulus law Congress passed in 2009.  Some of the money to pay for the increase would come from a
45 percent cut for the department’s Office of Fossil Energy, to
$418 million. The reductions include ending a program that
studies how to extract oil and gas from shale,  tar sands  and
other “unconventional sources.” The department will focus
fossil-energy research on developing technology that captures
and stores carbon-dioxide emissions from coal-fired  power
plants , according to the budget.  ‘Shared Sacrifice’  “Fiscal responsibility demands shared sacrifice,” Chu
wrote on his blog on Feb. 11.  Obama also wants to repeal tax subsidies for companies that
produce oil, natural gas and coal to bring in $3.61 billion in
fiscal 2012 and $46.2 billion over 10 years.  “Besides eliminating thousands of new potential jobs, the
increases, over the long term, would actually lower revenue to
the government by many billions of dollars as a result of
foregone revenues from projects the tax hikes would prevent
going forward,” said  Jack Gerard , president and chief executive
officer of the  American Petroleum Institute , a trade group in
Washington, in a statement.  Lawmakers blocked Obama’s proposal last year to terminate
oil, gas and coal tax subsidies, and a revised plan from Senator  Bernard Sanders , a Vermont independent, to end $35 billion in
fossil-fuel tax breaks was defeated in July on a 35-to-61 vote.
Last week, Chu declined to predict whether Obama will succeed
this year in repealing the subsidies.  “Let’s see what goes forward and hope that Congress in its
wisdom will allow us to do this,” Chu said at a Feb. 9 press
conference.  Proposal Last Year  Obama also proposed a $36 billion expansion in nuclear loan
guarantees last year for fiscal 2011. Congress failed to pass a
budget last year, and lawmakers have been funding the federal
government with a series of stop-gap spending measures, or
continuing resolutions, which haven’t expanded the nuclear loan-
guarantee program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder at   jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lomax in  Washington  at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net . 