-- 
Obama Seeks to Boost Commerce Spending for Exports

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-02-14T21:52:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/obama-seeks-to-boost-commerce-department-spending-for-exports.html
President  Barack Obama  proposed
increased spending for U.S. Commerce Department programs that
promote exports, monitor the weather and climate change and
build a public-safety broadband network.  Total spending by the Commerce Department would fall to
$8.77 billion in the year beginning Oct. 1, representing a
reduction of $5.1 billion, or 37 percent, from fiscal 2010, when
the agency ran the once-a-decade Census. Excluding the Census,
Obama is proposing a 16 percent increase for the agency compared
with 2010, the last time agencies had an enacted budget.  “This budget makes some tough but responsible choices that
will put the government on a sounder financial footing,”
Commerce Secretary Gary Locke said today in a statement.  The International Trade Administration, which promotes
exports and monitors imports, would get an increase of 16
percent, or $70 million, to $517 million to support Obama’s goal
of doubling U.S. exports in the next five years, according to
the budget plan. To cut costs, the administration will withdraw
foreign commercial service officials in some nations, and
relocate them to “high-priority markets” such as  China ,
Rebecca Blank, the deputy secretary, told reporters.  The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration budget
would increase 13 percent to $5.5 billion, from $4.85 billion in
2010. The administration proposes $1.9 billion to develop and
acquire a polar-orbiting weather satellite, as well as an
increase for fishery-stock assessments.  Cybersecurity, Broadband  The administration also wants to provide the department
$1.45 billion for a public-safety broadband network. The
administration wants to sell airwaves to fund that and other
wireless efforts.  The department would get $23 million for cybersecurity. The
administration proposed ending loan guarantees for the  steel
industry  and an assistance program for companies harmed by
foreign trade.  The administration also proposed that the U.S. Export-
Import Bank, which covers its expenses from fees charged on
financing to exporters, increase its budget authority to $76
million from $58 million and boost its staff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 