-- 
Obama's $3.7 Trillion Budget Sets Fight in Congress

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-02-14T13:45:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/obama-to-submit-3-7-trillion-budget-republicans-promise-to-oppose-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  will send
Congress a $3.7 trillion budget that would reduce deficits by
$1.1 trillion over a decade, setting up a battle with
Republicans who have already deemed the plan insufficient to
reduce federal debt.  The deficit for the current fiscal year is forecast to hit
a record $1.6 trillion -- 10.9 percent of gross domestic product
-- up from $1.4 trillion the administration estimated
previously, according to documents released this morning by the
administration. It would fall to $1.1 trillion in fiscal 2012,
the fourth consecutive year of deficits exceeding $1 trillion.
By 2015 it would decline to $607 billion, or 3.2 percent of GDP.  “We have a responsible budget that will cut in half the
deficit by the end of the president’s first term,” White House
budget director  Jacob Lew  said on CNN’s “State of the Union”
program yesterday. “We are going to make tough choices.”  About two-thirds of the  deficit reduction  comes from
spending cuts in areas ranging from heating subsidies for the
poor to grants for airports and water-treatment plants. The rest
is from revenue increases, including letting taxes rise for
married couples with more than $250,000 in annual income,
according to the documents.  Republican Resistance  The president’s full spending blueprint is set for release
at 10:30 a.m. Washington time and it will hit immediate
resistance in Congress. The Republican majority in the House is
trying to  eliminate  more than 100 programs for a savings of $61
billion this year and has vowed to oppose tax increases.
Congress still hasn’t enacted Obama’s fiscal 2011 spending plan,
submitted last February, and the government is operating under a
temporary spending authority that expires March 4.  “It looks to me that it is going to be very small on
spending discipline and a lot of new spending -- so-called
investments,” House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin Republican, said on “Fox News Sunday” yesterday.
“The country’s biggest challenge, domestically speaking, no
doubt about it, is a debt crisis” and the president’s plan
“shows that he is abdicating leadership on that point.”  The budget falls short of the deficit reduction that
Obama’s fiscal commission proposed in December and would have
only a modest impact on the $12 trillion in total deficits the  Congressional Budget Office  projects the government will run up
over the next 10 years. That’s primarily because Obama isn’t
proposing changes for Medicare, Medicaid or Social Security, the
entitlement programs that represent about 40 percent of the
budget and are primary drivers of long-term deficits.    Baby Boomers   The administration anticipates the deficit will be $627
billion in 2017, or 3 percent of the nation’s gross domestic
product, and grow in subsequent years reflecting the impact of
Baby Boomers qualifying for Social Security and Medicare.  By 2021, the deficit would grow to $774 billion, according
to White House estimates. By comparison the fiscal commission
called for $4 trillion in cuts in order to squeeze the deficit
down to $279 billion in 2020. That included reducing benefits in
the entitlement programs.  The spending blueprint does call for postponing for two
years scheduled cuts in Medicare payments to doctors, which
would be financed with $62 billion in savings elsewhere in the
health-care program for the elderly.  Programs Cut  Scores of programs would be slashed under the
administration’s budget to make room for increases elsewhere
while still staying within Obama’s promise to freeze non-defense
discretionary spending for the next five years. About half of
all federal departments and agencies would see their budget
reduced from levels in 2010, the last time agencies had an
enacted budget, according to the administration documents.  The poor would receive less help paying their heating
bills, and graduate students would pay more for their  student
loans . The budget also cuts $1 billion for airport grants and
$950 million in water-treatment plans and other infrastructure.  Obama repeated a request to Congress to overhaul the
corporate  tax code  to reduce rates, make it simpler and abolish
“special-interest loopholes.” The budget doesn’t offer a
specific plan. Lew has said such a package may be negotiated
later with Congress, if there’s enough support.  Obama is calling for the elimination of a dozen tax breaks
for oil, gas and coal companies to raise $46 billion over 10
years. These funds would be diverted to help pay for putting 1
million electric vehicles on the road by 2015, doubling the
share of electricity from clean energy by 2035 and increasing
the efficiency of energy use in buildings by 20 percent.  Infrastructure Spending  The administration wants to spend $53 billion over the next
six years on high-speed rail, and proposes spending $15.7
billion to build a nationwide wireless network for emergency
workers and to widen access to mobile high-speed Internet. Obama
also included his plan for a National Infrastructure Bank,
seeding it with $50 billion intended to lure private investment
for specific projects.  “The challenge we have is live within our means but also
invest in the future,” Lew said on the CNN program.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, dismissed
Obama’s spending freeze, saying it would come only after
Democrats approved sizable spending increases over the past two
years. “Locking in that level of spending is way too much,” he
said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  Signals to Markets  Boehner and Ryan argued that cutting the deficit and
spending are more important to economic growth than the
increases in education, research and infrastructure spending
that Obama wants.  Getting the deficit under control “will help the economy
now because that sends the signals to the markets, to the small-
businesses men and women of America, that my taxes aren’t going
to have to pay for all this borrowing,” Ryan said.  The U.S. GDP rose at a 3.2 percent annual pace in the
fourth quarter of 2010, falling short of the 3.5 percent median
forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  While the U.S. unemployment rate has remained at least 9
percent for the longest stretch since monthly data was first
compiled in 1948, U.S. corporations by the end of last year’s
third quarter saw profits rebound to a near record. Nonfinancial
companies held $1.9 trillion in cash on their balance sheets,
government data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Meszoly at   rmeszoly@bloomberg.net  