-- 
Obama Proposes User Fees in $308 Million CFTC Budget

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-02-14T22:47:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/obama-said-to-propose-cftc-fees-to-help-fund-dodd-frank-oversight-agency.html
President  Barack Obama  proposed user
fees as an option to help the  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  carry out derivatives oversight as part of a $308
million budget request for the agency.  Obama’s budget proposal, sent to Congress today, sets the
stage for months of political fights with Republicans who have
pushed for spending cuts. The proposal for fiscal 2012 comes
with the budget for the current fiscal year -- including $169
million for the CFTC -- caught in a congressional stalemate.  The user fees, which require congressional approval, would
raise $117 million in the 2012 fiscal year and $588 million
through 2016, according to the budget plan. They would be
assessed on “the regulated community” to pay for the CFTC’s
non-enforcement activities. A legislative proposal will be
presented this year, the Obama administration said.  “The rapid expansion in CFTC’s authorities and oversight
has required unprecedented growth in the agency’s resources,”
the Obama administration said in the budget. User fees would
represent an alternative source of funds for the CFTC, which is
now funded through congressional spending bills.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC and the  Securities and
Exchange Commission  to write rules for the  derivatives market 
after unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The
regulatory law enacted last year gave the CFTC authority to
oversee swap dealers and other large users of the derivatives.  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial transactions
tied to currencies, stocks, bonds or an event, such as the
default of a company.  Insufficient Funds  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  told lawmakers at a Feb. 10
hearing that the agency’s budget isn’t big enough to pay for
enforcement of the new rules.  “Without adequate funding of our financial market
regulatory apparatus, the new legislation won’t mean much in the
real world,” CFTC Commissioner  Bart Chilton , a Democrat, said
today in a statement. “We will once again be vulnerable to the
conditions that created the recent economic chaos.”  Congressional Republicans, who took control of the House
and narrowed the Democrats’ majority in the Senate in November
elections, proposed cutting the CFTC’s budget by $56.8 million
for the current fiscal year as part of a plan to slash spending.  Tougher Time  The Republicans may face a tougher time opposing the fee
proposal than a request for additional congressional spending,
said Douglas J. Elliott, an economic studies fellow at the
Washington-based  Brookings Institution .  “Even if you view it as a tax, it’s not a tax on citizens
directly. It’s a tax on the financial industry, which isn’t all
that popular now,” Elliott, a former managing director at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said today in an interview.  Representative  Scott Garrett , the New Jersey Republican who
leads a House Financial Services subcommittee that oversees the
SEC, called the fees “an off-budget accounting gimmick” that
would “drive up the cost of main street businesses who are
trying to responsibly hedge their risk.”  CFTC Commissioner  Scott O’Malia , one of two Republicans on
the five-member panel, opposed the user fees, which he said
represented, “a transaction tax.”  The fee proposal may also face opposition from financial-
industry lobbyists, including the Futures Industry Association
which has opposed similar proposals in the past.  “The imposition of user fees would significantly reduce
the efficiency of the regulated futures market and greatly
increase the cost of hedging financial and commodity price
risk,” FIA President John M. Damgard said in a statement today.  Not the Best Time  Now may not be the best time to add a new fee on the
market, said Kenneth M. Bentsen Jr., executive vice president at
the  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association .  “We’re a little concerned given that the industry and
market participants are already going to have to absorb
additional costs related to the new rules under Dodd-Frank,”
Bentsen said in a telephone interview.  The Obama administration is seeking an 82 percent budget
increase for the CFTC, which includes money to hire 378 new
employees. The CFTC, which now has about 700 employees, should
have a post-Dodd-Frank “steady state level” of funding of $340
million and a staff of 1,140 employees, the administration said.  Agency Estimate  The 2012 budget request would increase to 250 from 139 the
number of employees who work in the CFTC’s division of market
oversight, according to  the agency’s budget and performance
estimate  for 2012 that was sent to congressional leaders today.  The commission would also increase to 235 from 167 the
number of full-time employees who work in the CFTC’s enforcement
unit. The agency’s enforcement powers will be compromised and
degraded without the additional employees, the CFTC said.  “The enforcement program will need to be more selective in
the matters it investigates, potentially leaving serious
wrongdoing unaddressed,” the CFTC said in the budget estimate.  O’Malia said the commission should invest in technology
before looking to hire additional employees.  “In this budget deficit environment, I do not believe the
commission will be able to sustain this level of funding,” he
said in a written dissent from the budget request.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  