-- 
Obama Submits a $3.7 Trillion Budget as Republicans Pledge to Oppose Plan

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-02-14T21:14:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/obama-submits-a-3-7-trillion-budget-as-republicans-pledge-to-oppose-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  sent
Congress a $3.7 trillion  budget  that projects the federal
deficit will exceed $1 trillion for the fourth consecutive year
in 2012 before falling to more “sustainable” levels by the
middle of the decade.  The deficit for the current fiscal year is forecast to hit
a record $1.6 trillion -- 10.9 percent of gross domestic
product -- up from the $1.4 trillion the administration
estimated previously. It would be $1.1 trillion in 2012, 7
percent of GDP. By 2015 it would decline to $607 billion, or
3.2 percent of GDP.  The president’s budget plan would reduce federal
shortfalls by $1.1 trillion over a decade through spending cuts
in areas ranging from heating subsidies for the poor to grants
for airports and water-treatment plants. It also would increase
revenue, including letting taxes rise for married couples with
more than $250,000 in annual income and ending some tax breaks
for oil, gas and coal companies.  Obama said he will meet his pledge to cut the deficit in
half by the end of his first term. Speaking at a middle school
in suburban Baltimore this morning, the president said the
government must spend to support education, research and
infrastructure to keep the U.S. economically competitive.  “The only way we can make these investments in the future
is if our government starts living within our means,” Obama
said. “What we’ve done here is make a down payment.”  Battle Ahead  Release of the budget for the fiscal year that begins Oct.
1 sets up a battle with Republicans who control the House and
who already have deemed the plan insufficient to reduce the
federal debt. The budget falls short of the deficit reduction
that Obama’s fiscal commission proposed in December and would
have a modest impact on the $12 trillion in total deficits the  Congressional Budget Office  projects the government will run up
over the next 10 years.  That’s primarily because Obama isn’t offering an overhaul
of Medicare, Medicaid or Social Security, the entitlement
programs that represent about 40 percent of the budget and are
primary drivers of long-term deficits.  White House budget director Jacob Lew defended the
spending blueprint against criticism that it fails to recommend
any major steps to reduce the cost of entitlements.  Negotiating  “I know that would make a lot of people happy for there
to be a big, bold proposal,” Lew said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “My experience over the last 30 years is
that when you put a proposal out there, before you’ve laid the
foundation for a bipartisan discussion, it actually doesn’t
move the process forward,” and instead sets it back.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, said in a statement that Obama “has failed to
tackle the urgent fiscal and economic threats before us.”  “The president’s budget accelerates our country down the
path to bankruptcy,” he said.  Some of Obama’s fellow Democrats were critical as well.
Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad  of North Dakota
said the government needs “a much more robust package of
deficit and debt reduction.”  “It is not enough to focus primarily on cutting the non-
security discretionary part of the budget,” Conrad said in a
statement. “We need a comprehensive long-term debt-reduction
plan, in the size and scope of what was proposed by the
president’s fiscal commission.”  More to Be Done  Obama said both parties will have to take steps beyond
those contained in his budget “because cutting annual domestic
spending won’t be enough to meet our long-term fiscal
challenges.”  “So what we’ve done here is make a down payment, but
there’s going to be more work that needs to be done,” he said.  Treasury 30-year bonds gained for a second day as yields
at almost the highest level in 10 months bolstered demand.
Yields fell three basis points to 4.66 percent at 2 p.m. in  New
York  after reaching as high as 4.71 percent.
IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks the
greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, increased 0.2 percent to 78.612, its third
consecutive gain.  “If the budget were adopted as presented, we would view
this as a marginal positive for the outlook for U.S. government
finance and the debt trajectory,” said Steven Hess, a senior
credit officer in New York at Moody’s Investors Service. “But
the likelihood of it being adopted as presented is extremely
low.”  Future Deficits  The budget forecasts the deficit will be $627 billion in
2017, or 3 percent of GDP, a level the administration says is
sustainable. The shortfall would grow in subsequent years,
reflecting the impact of  Baby Boomers  qualifying for Social
Security and Medicare.  By 2021, the deficit would widen to $774 billion,
according to White House estimates. By comparison, the fiscal
commission called for $4 trillion in cuts to squeeze the
deficit down to $279 billion in 2020. That included reducing
benefits in the entitlement programs.  This year’s deficit as a proportion of GDP is the highest
since the 21.5 percent in 1945 at the end of World War II. The  International Monetary Fund , in a global  report  released in
October, projected the German deficit would be 3.7 percent of
GDP in 2011, while comparative figures were 8.9 percent for
Japan, 8.1 percent for the U.K. and 2.9 percent for  Canada .  Interest Payments  The administration forecasts interest payments on the
nation’s debt will grow rapidly over the coming decade with
costs topping the annual budget of the Pentagon by 2017. By
2021, interest costs will rise to $928 billion from the current
$205 billion.  The budget calls for $1.5 trillion in tax increases over
the next 10 years, with the bulk of that coming from allowing
former President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts for couples earning
more than $250,000 to expire.  Another $300 billion would come from limiting the ability
of the wealthy to take itemized deductions. It would also
impose a $30 billion “financial crisis responsibility fee” on
banks, a $15 billion tax increase on the “carried interest”
paid to investment managers, and rescind a dozen tax breaks for
the oil, gas and coal industry to raise more than $46 billion
over 10 years.  New Fees  The administration is calling for $85 billion in new or
increased fees over the next 10 years that would affect a
number of industries.  It wants to raise $28 billion by more than doubling
airline security passenger fees. Another $16 billion would come
by raising fees companies pay to the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corp. to insure their pensions.  Oil and gas companies would see their inspection fees more
than sextuple, to $65 million per year, to cover the costs of
increased oversight in the wake of the spill from a BP Plc well
in the  Gulf of Mexico . The government would charge new or
higher fees for patents, generic-drug reviews and manufacturers
seeking to label products with its “Energy Star,” among other
changes.  Many of the tax and other revenue-raising proposals Obama
makes have been rejected or brushed aside by Congress
previously, when Democrats controlled both chambers.  Cuts  About two-thirds of the deficit reduction comes from cuts.
Scores of programs would be slashed under the administration’s
budget to make room for increases elsewhere while still staying
within Obama’s promise to freeze non-security discretionary
spending for the next five years. About half of all federal
departments and agencies would see their budgets reduced from
levels in 2010, the last time agencies had an enacted budget,
according to the administration documents.  Among the exceptions is the Securities and Exchange
Commission, where the administration is asking Congress to
approve a budget of $1.4 billion, up $304 million from fiscal
2010. With tougher rules brought on by the financial crisis,
the agency’s enforcement division would get a 27 percent
increase to $460 million.  Another is the  Internal Revenue Service , which would get a
9.4 percent increase, to $13.3 billion, to hire more than 5,000
new employees, most of whom would pursue tax cheats.  The poor would receive less help paying heating bills, and
graduate students would pay more for  student loans . The budget
also cuts $1 billion from airport grants and $950 million from
water-treatment plants and other infrastructure.  Corporate Taxes  Obama repeated a request to Congress to overhaul the
corporate  tax code  to reduce rates, make it simpler and abolish
“special-interest loopholes.” The budget doesn’t offer a
specific plan.  The administration wants to spend $53 billion over the
next six years on high-speed rail, and proposes spending $15.7
billion to build a nationwide wireless network for emergency
workers and to widen access to mobile high-speed Internet.
Obama also included his plan for a National Infrastructure
Bank, seeding it with $50 billion intended to lure private
investment for specific projects.  The White House said it’s asking Congress to renew and
make permanent the Build America Bonds program, where state and
local borrowing costs are subsidized to help localities finance
bridge, road and other projects. More than $187 billion of
Build America bonds were sold before the program expired Dec.
31.  Caterpillar, Deere  Companies that stand to benefit from spending on public
works are construction equipment makers such as  Caterpillar
Inc ., in Peoria, Illinois;  Deere & Co ., in Moline,  Illinois ,
and Westport, Connecticut-based  Terex Corp ., as well as
underwriters such as  Citigroup Inc . and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc .  Obama said he was seeking $553 billion for the Defense
Department, up 4.3 percent from fiscal 2010, the last year of
full funding for the Pentagon. For the wars in Afghanistan and
Iraq, Obama is asking Congress to approve $126.5 billion, down
from this year’s $164.7 billion and the lowest since 2006,
reflecting the winding down of the war in  Iraq . The figures
include war-related costs under the State Department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  