-- 
Transport Outlays to Grow 16% in U.S. Budget With High-Speed Rail Priority

-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 
2011-02-14T17:22:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/obama-budget-proposes-556-billion-surface-transportation-bill.html
President  Barack Obama ’s budget
calls on Congress to pass a $556 billion, multiyear surface
transportation funding plan that would include spending for  Amtrak  and highway repairs as well as an infrastructure bank,
without offering a funding source.  The proposal would include $50 billion in the first year of
the six-year plan to promote employment, the budget said. The
infrastructure bank, which was allocated $30 billion over six
years, would finance road and other projects.  The spending would be contingent on Congress passing
legislation that would pay for the programs from trust funds
rather than general funds. The budget assumes that an additional
$48.3 million would flow during the year starting Oct. 1 into
the funds, which are now financed by sales taxes on gasoline and
diesel fuel, while saying that the source of funds must be
negotiated with Congress.  “This budget does nothing to move the ball forward; it
moves the ball backward,” said Diana Furchtgott-Roth, senior
fellow at the Hudson Institute, a Washington-based policy
advisory research group, and former chief of staff for President  George W. Bush ’s  Council of Economic Advisers . “This budget
uses  government spending  as investment whereas what it should do
is harness the private sector to do the true investment.”  The last surface transportation bill, which authorized $256
billion over six years, expired in 2008. Money for highway
repairs has been funded through a series of extensions.  Combining Transportation Funds  Rolling all the surface transportation programs into one
fund, which would be renamed the Transportation Trust Fund,
allows more coordination between segments, said Robert Puentes,
an analyst with the Washington-based Brookings Institute, a
nonprofit public-policy organization.  The U.S. has a  Federal Highway Administration , a Federal
Transit Administration, a Federal Railroad Administration, among
others, which all function under their own set of rules and
programs, he said.  “The Administration wants to move the program away from
the fragmented, compartmentalized system that we have today to
something where you look at all of these modes holistically,”
he said.  The budget also calls for expanding loan programs that
could be used as seed money for infrastructure projects. The
Transportation Infrastructure Financing and Innovation Program,
or TIFIA, would be increased 18 percent to $2.34 billion, while
funding for its guaranteed loan counterpart would double to $80
million.  States can use money from TIFIA as a down payment for
additional private funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net  