-- 
Obama Seeks to Cut Clean-Diesel, Fuel-Cell Funding

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-02-14T23:07:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/obama-budget-ends-funding-for-clean-diesel-cuts-fuel-cell-plan.html
The Obama administration proposed
ending a  clean-diesel grant program  and cutting research for
hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles while spurring the market for
electric cars.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s fiscal 2012
budget reduces the Clean Diesel Program’s budget from $80
million in 2010 to zero. The program was reauthorized by
Congress for five years and a total of $500 million in December.  “It’s clearly difficult budget times, but it’s hard to
imagine a program that delivers more concrete benefits at a
lower cost than the diesel-emissions reduction program,” said
Allen Schaeffer, executive director of the Diesel Technology
Forum, a trade group based in Frederick,  Maryland .  President  Barack Obama  is working to realign the U.S.
government’s vehicle-technology priorities. His budget proposes
diverting funds from a dozen energy-company tax breaks to help
put more electric vehicles on the road, doubling the share of
electricity from so-called clean energy by 2035 and increasing
the efficiency of energy use in buildings by 20 percent.  The budget proposal would transform a $7,500 tax credit for
buyers of plug-in electric cars into a rebate at the dealership
so purchasers wouldn’t have to wait to claim the credit on tax
returns. Obama, in his State of the Union address last month,
reiterated his goal of having 1 million electric vehicles, both
plug-in and hybrid electric, on U.S. roads in four years.  Diesel Grants  An extension of the current clean-diesel spending plan was
signed into law in January and pays local governments to
retrofit buses, trucks and construction equipment.  The program has been giving out grants since 2005,
benefiting makers of retrofit equipment, such as  Corning Inc .,
and newer, cleaner engines and vehicles, like  Cummins Inc .,  Caterpillar Inc . and  Navistar International Corp .  Eliminating the funding was “truly unfortunate,” said Dan Collins, a spokesman for Corning, which makes filters used to
scrub diesel exhaust.  “Newer emissions regulations address this issue with
engines built after 2007, but earlier models are among the
heaviest air pollutants on the road today,” Collins said in an
e-mail.  Cummins, a maker of diesel truck engines, plans to lobby to
restore funding, Mark Land, a spokesman for the Columbus,
Indiana-based company, said in an e-mail. The program has
bipartisan support because it’s cost-effective, Land said.  Roy Wiley, a Navistar spokesman, declined to comment. Jim Dugan, a Caterpillar spokesman, had no immediate comment.    Public Health   While the EPA won’t dedicate any new funding in fiscal
2012, the program received money through the 2009 American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act, with about $100 million yet to be
spent. Every dollar in the program generates $12 to $13 in
public-health benefits, EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson said on a
conference call with reporters.  “It was one of the tough decisions we had to make,”
Jackson said. The agency “will continue to support ongoing
projects, adding to the tremendous public health benefits of
cleaner air,” she said.  In addition to eliminating the diesel grants, the budget
proposes allocating no money to a hydrogen fuel-cell program in
the Energy Department that had $49 million in the 2010 fiscal
year.  The George W. Bush administration called for $1.5 billion
in funding over five years in the 2004 federal budget, divided
between fuel-cell and hydrogen technologies. Department of
Energy funding for the fuel-cell part of the equation peaked in
2006 at $84 million. Subsequent annual spending ranged from $45
million to $56 million.  A hydrogen fuel-cell industry trade group criticized
Obama’s cuts, saying it would be foolish to abandon  government
investment .  ‘Ceding Our Leadership’  “We ask Congress to act now and restore funding to fuel
cell and hydrogen energy programs, or risk ceding our leadership
to strategic competitors as we have done with wind, solar, and
batteries,”Ruth Cox, president of the Fuel Cell and Hydrogen
Energy Association, said in a statement. Honda Motor Co.,  Toyota
Motor Corp .,  3M Co . and  Boeing Co . are members of the group.  Honda, which doesn’t have an electric car on the market,
has leased FCX Clarity hydrogen cars to drivers in the Los
Angeles area since 2008.  Daimler AG  started leasing fuel-cell
Mercedes-Benz hatchbacks in California last year. Toyota plans
to sell hydrogen cars in  California , Japan and  Germany  by 2015.  “We will distribute globally to regions capable of
supporting with infrastructure, including specific regions of
the U.S.,” said  John Hanson , a spokesman for Toyota’s U.S.
unit. “The vehicles are coming.”  ‘Commercial Viability’  Continued funding is critical if the U.S. is going to keep
pace with Germany and Japan, said Sharon Basel, a spokeswoman
for Detroit-based  General Motors Co . Fuel cells and hydrogen are
integral to reducing  greenhouse gases , she said.  “The commercial viability of fuel cells are within the
grasp of consumers, and it’s urgent that programs are supported
that will get this technology into the market,” Basel said.
“This is not the time to reduce investment.”  The president’s budget only marks the beginning of the
process that will decide how federal money gets spent, said
Schaeffer of the diesel group. A bipartisan majority in the
Senate approved the emissions-reduction program on a 92-7 vote,
he said.  “It’s great to invest in something that’s a moon shot, 15
or 20 years from now, but what are you going to do until then?”
Schaeffer said. “Modest sums to help modernize and upgrade some
of these older engines would be dollars well spent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 