-- 
Obama Seeks 13% Cut in Environmental Agency’s Budget

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-02-14T21:09:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/obama-seeks-13-cut-in-environmental-protection-agency-s-budget.html
President  Barack Obama  proposed
cutting the Environmental Protection Agency’s budget 13 percent
to $8.97 billion as the agency faces Republican demands to limit
its funding and authority.  The fiscal 2012 budget proposed today is a $1.3 billion
reduction from 2010, the last time federal agencies had an
enacted budget. It calls for cutting aid to states for water
quality by 27 percent to $2.54 billion and reducing funds to
restore the Great Lakes by 26 percent to $350 million.  Obama’s budget counters a proposal from Republican
lawmakers in the House to slash EPA funding by $3 billion and
block the agency from regulating  greenhouse gases  from
industrial polluters such as  power plants . The president’s plan
calls for about $43 million in new funding for the rules aimed
at curbing carbon-dioxide emissions blamed for  climate change ,
according to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson.  “We need to get started,” Jackson told reporters on a
conference call today. “Businesses are waiting right now to
make investments, and one of the things they need to know is how
we will be addressing carbon pollution going forward.”  The total EPA budget for the rules, which took effect last
month, is about $190 million, including costs for state permit
programs, according to Jackson. The EPA opposes any effort in
Congress to bar or delay the regulations, she said.  Prospect for Delay  A one- or two-year delay of the greenhouse-gas rules has
“greater likelihood” of becoming law than other proposals from
the administration and Republican lawmakers, Whitney Stanco, an
analyst at MF Global Inc.’s Washington Research Group, said
today in a research notes to clients.    Peabody Energy Corp . of  St. Louis , the largest U.S. coal
producer, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s biggest
business lobby, are among those fighting the new rules, saying
they will increase energy costs and destroy jobs.  The EPA is moving too quickly with new regulations,
including the carbon limits, the chief executive officer of  Progress Energy Inc . of Raleigh,  North Carolina , which supports
action to curb U.S. emissions, said today.  “I’m particularly concerned about the impact on low-income
people,”  Bill Johnson , whose company is being acquired by  Duke
Energy Corp . to form the largest U.S. utility, said at a
conference in Washington.  Obama’s Goals  The EPA budget repeats Obama’s call for Congress to pass
legislation that would help combat global warming, promote
clean-energy technologies and reduce U.S. reliance on oil. Obama
continues to call for reducing U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions by
of about 17 percent by 2020 and 83 percent by 2050, according to
the EPA budget proposal, which doesn’t say how those goals would
be reached.  The administration decided to press ahead with the EPA’s
greenhouse-gas rules after Congress’s failure to limit emissions
through a cap-and-trade system, favored by Obama, that would let
companies buy and sell the right to pollute.  The EPA budget also proposed ending a clean-diesel grant
program that received $80 million in fiscal 2010.  “It was one of the tough decisions we had to make,”
Jackson said1d. About $100 million in unspent stimulus funds
remain to be spent on the initiative, Jackson said.  The program, which pays local governments to retrofit
buses, trucks and construction equipment, was reauthorized by
Congress for five years and a total of $500 million in December.  Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat, criticized the EPA
for eliminating new funding.  “This successful program is a bipartisan, commonsense
approach to cutting toxic diesel emissions,” Carper said in an
e-mailed statement. “Clean  diesel engines  made today are
nearing zero emissions, but that does nothing for the millions
of engines already in use and will be in use for the next 20
years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in  Washington  at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  