-- 
Obama Budget Targets U.S. Technology Spending Growth

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-02-14T20:37:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/obama-budget-targets-u-s-technology-spending-growth-update1-.html
  Government spending  on  information
technology  would rise to $79.5 billion next fiscal year under a
 budget proposal  from President  Barack Obama  that seeks to
balance technology priorities with federal  deficit reduction .  The technology budget released today is a 1.3 percent
increase from the $78.5 billion federal agencies plan to spend
in the current fiscal year under a continuing resolution that
has kept spending at about 2010 levels.  The fiscal 2012 budget shows “success in flattening the
growth in  federal IT spending ,” the administration said in its
proposal. After an average increase in technology spending of
6.8 percent from 2001 to 2008, the growth rate fell to an
estimated average of 3.5 percent a year during Obama’s first two
years in office, according to the Office of Management and
Budget.  The proposed increase is “just a starting point” in the
administration’s policy that has to be taken “in the context of
the whole budget dance this year,” said Alan Balutis, director
of the Internet Business Solutions Group for  Cisco Systems Inc .  “There are a lot of policy issues swirling beneath” just
what the numbers are, and “any increase at all in technology”
shows how important it is to the White House since the
administration is trying to reduce overall spending, said
Balutis, a former chief information officer at the  Commerce
Department  during the Clinton administration.  More Cloud Computing  To reduce spending growth, the administration proposed
cutting the time it takes to develop IT projects, improving
management of technology programs, increasing industry and
government cooperation, and sharing technologies among agencies.  Part of the plan includes moving government applications
from government-owned networks to those operated by contractors,
a practice known as cloud computing. The  General Services
Administration  awarded on Dec. 1 a five-year, $6.7 million
contract for e-mail services to  Unisys Corp . in Blue Bell,  Pennsylvania , which partnered with  Mountain View , California-
based  Google Inc ., Tempus Nova Inc. and Acumen Solutions Inc. to
win the deal.  GSA says it will save 50 percent in costs associated with
maintaining the system, according to the budget.  “The real key to the savings to the reduction in the IT
budget is to shut down those legacy systems,” said Karen Evans,
a partner with technology consulting firm KE&T Partners LLC in
Washington and a former administrator for e-government and IT at
OMB in the President George W. Bush administration. “If you
allow them to keep going, you’re going to end up paying for the
new stuff and the old stuff, and you’re just going to jack up
your costs.”  Consolidate Data Centers  The White House also plans to hold down IT spending growth
by consolidating federal data centers, places where agencies
store large amounts of information on computers. Agencies
operated 2,094 centers in August, almost five times the 432 that
existed in 1998, according to the budget.  Obama proposed reducing the number of data centers by 39
percent to 1,284 by 2015 by relying on cloud computing and
virtualization, which requires agencies to consolidate and share
servers. The administration also plans to get rid of outdated
equipment and close buildings that are no longer needed.  Republicans in Congress have said Obama’s $3.7 trillion
overall budget, which the administration said will cut deficits
by $1.1 trillion in 10 years, won’t reduce the federal deficit
enough. The plan would halve the deficit by the end of 2012
through targeted spending cuts and tax increases, the
administration said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Neher in  Washington  at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  