-- 
Obama to Meet With Technology Executives on Economy, Jobs

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-02-14T21:48:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/obama-to-meet-with-technology-executives-on-economy-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama  will meet
with technology business executives in the San Francisco area on
Feb. 17, just days after unveiling a $3.7 trillion budget for
fiscal year 2012 that boosts investments in innovation and
education.  The meeting is the latest in Obama’s attempts to rebuild
relationships with the business community, which were strained
by disagreements over the president’s effort to overhaul health
care and financial regulations. While on the West Coast, Obama
will visit  Intel Corp .’s Hillsboro,  Oregon , campus on Feb. 18
and tour the company’s semiconductor manufacturing facility with
Intel Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini .  “The president has been reaching out to CEOs over the
past couple months and will continue to do that,” White House
Deputy Communications Director  Jen Psaki  said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television. “On his way to Oregon on Friday, he
will meet with some technology CEOs.”  While in the San Francisco Bay area, Obama and the
technology leaders will discuss ways to spur job growth,
strengthen the economy and promote investments in research and
development, education and clean energy, Psaki said, without
providing the names of the executives.  Last October, Obama squeezed in a private meeting with  Apple Inc . CEO  Steve Jobs  in between a series of West Coast
political events. One of the stops on that trip was a fundraiser
at the home of Marissa Mayer, Google Inc.’s vice president of
search products.  The president is seeking support for his economic agenda,
which is focused on spurring growth through innovation and
technology.  He said in his Jan. 25 State of the Union address that the
U.S. faces a new “Sputnik moment” that demands investments in
education and research to keep the nation economically
competitive. He called for an expansion of his Race to the Top
program, spending to prepare 100,000 new math and science
teachers over the next decade, and a more flexible version of
the No Child Left Behind law to be passed this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 Jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  