-- 
Lockheed’s Anti-Missile System to Be Canceled in 2013

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-02-14T21:26:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/lockheed-s-multinational-anti-missile-program-to-be-canceled.html
The Pentagon today said it would
terminate a multinational missile defense program being
developed by  Lockheed Martin Corp . in collaboration with  Italy 
and  Germany .  The Medium Extended Air Defense System, or Meads, will be
canceled when the current contract ends in 2013, Defense
Department comptroller Robert Hale said in a news briefing.  Continuing with the program would have required as much as
$1.16 billion additionally for the five-year period ending 2017,
according to a Pentagon fact sheet. “The U.S. cannot afford
this additional research and development funding,” the fact
sheet said.  It said that the system, designed to shoot down short- and
medium-range missiles, had “experienced a number of technical
and management challenges since its inception in the mid-
1990s.”  The money freed up by terminating the Meads program will be
used to buy additional Stinger and Patriot missiles, U.S. Army
Major General Phillip McGhee said at a Pentagon news conference.  The Meads system had grown in cost by about $1 billion and
its overall schedule delayed an additional 18 months, according
to the Senate Armed Services Committee in its version of the
fiscal 2011 defense authorization bill, passed by Congress last
month.  Joint Funding  The U.S. contributes 58 percent of the funding for the
seven-year-old Meads program, in partnership with Germany and
Italy. It’s an anti-missile system designed to work within
NATO’s command structure that uses the latest version of the
Patriot developed by Lockheed Martin and  Raytheon Co .  The program’s $4.2 billion development program is managed
out of Orlando, Florida, under Meads International LLC, a joint
venture of Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed, Lfk-
Lenkflugkorpersysteme Gmbh of Germany and MBDA of Italy.  MBDA is the world’s second-largest missile maker. MBDA is
jointly owned by  BAE Systems Plc , European Aeronautic, Defence
and Space Co. and  Finmeccanica SpA .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  