-- 
Offshore Oil Royalties Projected to Rise 68% in Budget

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-04-13T23:42:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/offshore-oil-royalties-projected-to-rise-68-under-obama-budget.html
(Corrects value of pumped crude in eighth paragraph of
story published Feb. 14.)  Royalties paid to the U.S. by oil
and gas companies for offshore production are forecast to
increase 68 percent under President Barack Obama’s 2012 budget.  Receipts will reach $5.97 billion in the year that starts
Oct. 1, from $3.56 billion in 2010, according to the budget for
the Interior Department released today. Obama also is proposing
$25 million in fees from energy companies that hold nonproducing
oil and gas leases, part of the administration’s effort to
provide taxpayers with higher revenue from minerals development.  “Recent studies by the Government Accountability Office
and  Department of Interior ’s Inspector General have found that
taxpayers could earn a better return through more rigorous
oversight and policy changes,” Obama said in the budget. “The
budget proposes a number of actions to receive a fair return
from the development of U.S. mineral resources.”  Obama also plans to charge  oil companies  for drilling
permits and inspecting operations on federal lands and waters,
to increase funding of energy oversight after BP Plc’s April
well explosion spewed crude into the  Gulf of Mexico  for 87 days.  The budget proposes a more than sixfold increase in
inspection fees, to $65 million in 2012 from $10 million in
2010, the last year in which the department had an enacted
budget. The move follows increases in the cost of enforcing new
environmental and safety regulations adopted after the BP spill.  Obama would more than double to $14.9 million research into
how to prevent and respond to oil spills. The money comes from a
tax on oil producers paid into a fund established after the 1989
Exxon Valdez spill in  Alaska .  Offshore Revamp  The president also proposed spending more than $500 million
to revamp offshore drilling regulator, the  Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement. His proposal
didn’t specify the exact level or source of these funds.  At stake is development of resources in the region that
produces more oil than the U.K., Qatar or  Indonesia , and pumped
$35.3 billion in crude in 2009. Exploration in waters deeper
than 500 feet (152 meters) remains stalled after a BP Plc’s well
in the Gulf exploded in April and spewed crude for 87 days.  The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management is a part of the
Department of Interior. Obama proposed keeping the department’s
budget at $12 billion in 2012, according to the budget.  Obama would also increase in the Oil Spill Liability Trust
Fund by one cent per barrel to raise $451 million through 2021.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 