-- 
Mol Misses Quarterly Earnings Estimate; Shares Fall

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   B a l a z s   P e n z
-- 
2011-02-15T16:44:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/mol-fourth-quarter-net-income-rises-79-percent-as-crude-gains.html
Mol Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s biggest oil
refiner, missed an average fourth-quarter earnings estimate by
analysts because of one-time items. The company’s shares fell.  Net income for the period rose to 33 billion forint ($164
million) from a restated 18.5 billion forint a year earlier, Mol
said in a statement posted on the Budapest Stock Exchange’s
 website  today. That compares with an average projection of 44.1
billion forint by five analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “All in all, Mol had a strong quarter, but our first
opinion is mildly negative because of the operating profit
falling slightly short of expectations,” BudaCash Brokerhaz
analysts Balint Torok and Zsigmond Gelencser wrote in a note to
clients. One-time items affected the results, and some probably
weren’t included in market forecasts, they said.  Mol benefited in the fourth quarter from a 14 percent rise
in the price of crude oil and from higher production at offshore
natural-gas fields. Negative effects included foreign-currency
valuations and asset impairments, according to Olena Kyrylenko,
a KBC Groep NV analyst in Budapest.  For 2011 “we can target earnings which won’t disappoint
shareholders,” Chief Executive Officer Gyorgy Mosonyi told
reporters. Mol expects Brent crude prices of between $80 and
$100 per barrel this year, he said.  The shares fell as much as 385 forint, or 1.7 percent, and
closed 0.2 percent down, at 22,260 forint, the first daily
decline since Feb. 10. Mol has gained 7.1 percent this year,
compared with a 4.9 percent advance in Hungary’s benchmark BUX
index.  Division Breakdown  Mol’s exploration and production division raised its
operating profit by 53 percent to 74.3 billion forint as
natural-gas production rose 11 percent, driven by higher output
at offshore fields in Croatia and  Syria . Crude oil output fell
12 percent.  The company expects oil and gas production to rise to
150,000-155,000 barrels a day, from about 145,000 last year,
Mosonyi said. The main growth is seen coming from Syria, where
Mol plans to “more than double production from last year to
this year,” Chief Financial Officer Jozsef Molnar said during a
conference call today.  The refining and marketing division had an operating profit
of 3.3 billion forint, compared with a loss of 28.8 billion
forint in the year-earlier period. The average crack spread, or
profit margin on refining fuels, rose by 36 percent in the whole
of last year from 2009.  Crack Spreads  Mol expects a petrol crack spread of $120 per ton and a
diesel crack spread of $90-$110 per ton this year, Mosonyi said.  The company expects “a slower demand increase” from
household consumption in central  Europe  this year because of
high prices and governments’ austerity measures, Mosonyi said in
the conference call.  “On the industrial side, export-driven production will
increase demand,” in countries such as Hungary and the  Czech
Republic , Mosonyi said.  Mol’s petrochemical division reported an operating loss of
4.2 billion forint, compared with a 3.6 billion-forint loss in
the fourth quarter of 2009, as production of olefins fell by 9
percent and that of polymers by 5 percent, with narrowing price
margins, Mol said.  The natural-gas business increased operating profit by 4
percent, to 10 billion forint, as the company compensated for
declining sales with cost cuts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  