-- 
London Metal Exchange, Singapore Exchange Start Metals Futures

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-02-14T01:19:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/london-metal-exchange-singapore-exchange-start-metals-futures-tomorrow.html
The  London  Metal Exchange and  Singapore Exchange Ltd . will begin trading copper, zinc and
aluminum futures on the Singapore bourse tomorrow.  The dollar-denominated LME-SGX Metal Futures will start at
8 a.m. Singapore time and will be traded and cleared on the SGX.
Each contract will represent five metric tons of metal, compared
with the benchmark 25-ton contracts traded in London. The  Singapore Exchange  is also consulting the public on the
introduction of lead, tin and steel-billet futures.  The LME is expanding in  Asia  as demand accelerates. Asian
trading of the bourse’s benchmark three-month contracts
increased to 14 percent of total volume on the Select electronic
system, from 10 percent in 2009. The exchange launched Asian
benchmark prices for copper, aluminum and zinc on Jan. 24 and
opened an office in  Singapore  last year.  “I think the speculative interest is out there and easier
access might open doors to those participants,” Phil Boeding,
managing partner at GS Energy Partners LLC, one of the market
makers for the five-ton contracts.  Consumption of metals by China, the world’s largest user,
helped drive a 24 percent rally in the LME Index of six
industrial metals last year. Copper for three-month delivery
jumped to a record $10,160 a ton on Feb. 7 on expectations that
supplies will trail demand this year. Copper is often seen as an
economic indicator as it is used in construction and electrical
applications.  “Investors have become more sophisticated and recognize
the need to diversify not only among equities, but among asset
classes,” said Mitchell Tourle, commodity derivatives trader at
Susquehanna Pacific Pty Ltd., another market maker for the LME-
SGX futures.    China  Growth    China’s economy  grew 10.3 percent in 2010 even as policy
makers stepped up measures to curb property speculation and
accelerating consumer prices. That’s the fastest pace in three
years and compares with growth of 9.2 percent in 2009. The  World
Bank  expects the economy to expand 8.7 percent in 2011.  The LME-SGX metal futures replicate the specifications of
the LME’s own reduced-sized contracts known as LMEminis. They
will be cash-settled based on the LME official cash settlement
price and will trade in two sessions, from 8 a.m. to 3:20 p.m.
and from 4 p.m. to 2 a.m. Singapore time.  “Exchange-traded base metals volumes have exploded in Asia
in the last few years with good interest from commercial users,
especially overflow from the active Shanghai market,” Tourle
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 Gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  