-- 
Moody's Says Risk of Negative Outlook for U.S. Debt Remains With Deficits

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-02-14T22:02:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/moody-s-says-risk-of-negative-outlook-for-u-s-debt-remains-with-deficits.html
Moody’s Investors Service said the
risk of a negative outlook on its Aaa rating for  U.S. debt 
remains unless lawmakers do more to address record budget
deficits and spending.  President  Barack Obama  sent Congress a $3.7 trillion budget
today that projects the federal deficit will exceed $1 trillion
for the fourth consecutive year in 2012 before falling to more
“sustainable” levels by the middle of the decade. The deficit
for the current fiscal year is forecast to hit a record $1.6
trillion -- 10.9 percent of gross domestic product -- up from
the $1.4 trillion the administration previously estimated.  “If the budget were adopted as presented, we would view
this as a marginal positive,” said Steven Hess, a senior credit
officer at Moody’s in  New York . “But the likelihood of it being
adopted as presented is extremely low. In the next couple of
years if nothing more is done, the probability that the rating
would be negatively affected is still there and this hasn’t
changed that position.”  The probability of assigning a negative outlook in the next
two years to the U.S. rating is rising as the deficit widens
after the Obama administration and Congress agreed to tax cuts,
Moody’s said in a statement last month while maintaining a
stable outlook.  Standard & Poor’s  maintains an AAA rating on
U.S. securities.  Obama’s budget plan would reduce federal shortfalls by $1.1
trillion over a decade through spending cuts in areas ranging
from heating subsidies for the poor to grants for airports and
water-treatment plants and revenue increases, including letting
taxes rise for married couples with more than $250,000 in annual
income.  Entitlement Programs  “We don’t think there’ll be any action on this soon, and
when there’s action, it may look significantly different than
what’s proposed here,” Hess said, adding that the budget
doesn’t adequately address entitlements, which make up a large
part of the budget.  The budget forecasts the deficit will be $627 billion in
2017, or 3 percent of gross domestic product, a level the
administration said is sustainable. The shortfall would grow in
subsequent years, reflecting the impact of  Baby Boomers 
qualifying for Social Security and Medicare.  “It’s a step in the right direction,”  David Wyss , chief
economist at Standard & Poor’s in New York, said in an
interview. “The deficit has been ridiculously large for an
extended period of time and it needs to be cut. It’s not enough,
but it’s a significant move. The U.S. needs to do something in
order to retain that rating.”  -- With assistance from Roger Runningen and Brian Faler in  Washington . Editors: Dave Liedtka,  Paul Cox   To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  