-- 
Top Stories: Business and Finance

-- B y  
-- 
2011-02-14T00:35:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/top-stories-business-and-finance.html
The following are the day's top                    
business stories:                                                                1. Japan's Economy Shrank at 1.1% Annual Pace; GDP Surpassed by China in 2010  
2. World's Fastest Inflation Seen in Queensland Devastation:  Australia  Credit  
3. Japanese Stocks Advance on Mubarak Resignation, Weaker Yen; Toyota Climbs   
4. Geithner Quietly Tells Obama Debt-to-GNP Cost Poised to Increase to Record  
5. Size Matters in Steel as Nippon Default Swaps Beating Posco: Japan Credit   
6. Emergency Medical Said to Be Near $3.1 Billion Sale to Clayton Dubilier     
7. Stocks Back Sarkozy in Euro Survival as Greek Index Rises Most Since 1999   
8. Queensland Floods Drive U.S. Coal Exports to 15-Year High in Record Profit  
9. Egypt Treasury Bill Yields Hold at 2-Year High in First Post-Mubarak Sale   
10  China  Says Panel Will Begin Scrutinizing Acquisitions by Foreign Companies  
11.Bailout Interest Rate Means Pain, No Gain for Portugal Market: Euro Credit  
12.Loving Your Boss on Weekday Valentine's Day Lifts Japan's Chocolate Makers    1. Japan's Economy Shrank at 1.1% Annual Pace; GDP Surpassed by China in 2010    Japan´s economy contracted for the first time in five                     
 quarters as exports slowed and government stimulus faded, a                   
 pullback projected to be temporary as demand from China and                   
 U.S. revives output this year. Gross domestic product shrank an               
 annualized 1.1 percent in the three months ended Dec. 31,                     
 following a revised 3.3 percent expansion in the previous                     
 quarter, the Cabinet Office said today in Tokyo. The median                   
 forecast of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a                
 2 percent drop. China´s economy overtook Japan´s as the world´s               
 second largest for 2010, today´s data showed, underscoring the                
 rising role of the Japanese neighbor as a source for growth.                  
 Japan´s benchmark 10-year government bond yields reached a                    
 10-month high last week amid expectations the expansions in                   
 China and the U.S., the country´s biggest export markets, will                
 spur domestic output. "Japan bottomed out in the fourth                       
 quarter,"  Yuichi Kodama , an economist at Meiji Yasuda Life                    
 Insurance Co., Japan´s third- biggest life insurer, said before               
 the report.   China´s economy  is already showing signs of                      
 resurgence and the U.S. is rebounding, building up expectations               
 of an export-led revival in Japan."                                             2. World's Fastest Inflation Seen in Queensland Devastation: Australia Credit    Australia´s bond market is signaling inflation will reach a               
 four-year high after the worst floods in 37 years devastated                  
 Queensland, supplier of more than 30 percent of the nation´s                  
 fruit and vegetables. Australian consumer prices may rise an                  
 annual 2.96 percent for the next five years, according to the                 
 gap between yields on  government bonds  and inflation-indexed                  
 notes. The so-called breakeven rate jumped from 2.22 percent on               
 Sept. 1 and is the highest among eight developed markets                      
 tracked by Bloomberg. The Reserve Bank of Australia boosted its               
 2011 inflation forecast to 3 percent, the high end of its                     
 target range, from 2.75 percent because the A$10.6 billion                    
 ($10.6 billion) cleanup bill from the floods, record job growth               
 and crude oil at two- year highs will spur price gains. Bond                  
 yields climbed to a 10- month high on speculation RBA Governor                
 Glenn Stevens will raise the developed world´s highest interest               
 rates, now at 4.75 percent, by June, as U.S. and Japanese                     
 policy makers hold borrowing costs near zero. "The danger is                  
 the rebuilding will produce a lot of income into the economy,                 
 and that will be inflationary," said Roger Bridges, who                       
 oversees the equivalent of $16.1 billion as head of debt at                   
 Sydney-based Tyndall Investment Management Ltd., part of                      
 Japan´s Nikko Asset Management Co. "The  Reserve Bank  is on hold               
 to see how the economy adjusts to the floods. Our long-term                   
 view is still that they will put rates up." Bridges said he has               
 been buying Australian bonds after yields climbed.                              3. Japanese Stocks Advance on Mubarak Resignation, Weaker Yen; Toyota Climbs     Japan´s Topix index rose for a sixth day after Egyptian                   
 President  Hosni Mubarak ´s resignation and as the yen weakened.                
 Toyota Motor Corp., the world´s largest carmaker, jumped 1.5                  
 percent. Kyocera Corp., an electronics maker that gets more                   
 than half of its sales abroad, climbed 1.4 percent. Isetan                    
 Mitsukoshi Holdings Ltd., a department store operator, advanced               
 3.8 percent after the company raised its profit forecast. After               
 Mubarak resigned, "the worst is behind us, although there´s                   
 still concern whether power will be transferred smoothly in                   
  Egypt ," said  Kazuhiro Takahashi , a general manager at Tokyo-                  
 based Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. "The yen´s slide                   
 against the dollar will likely support the market." The Nikkei                
 225 Stock Average rose 0.9 percent to 10,694.80 as of 9:22 a.m.               
 in Tokyo. The broader Topix index gained 1 percent to 956.24                  
 with more than five stocks advancing for each that fell. The                  
 Topix´s six-day climb was the longest winning streak since the                
 period ending Jan. 12, 2010. Japan´s market was closed Feb. 11                
 for a holiday.                                                                  4. Geithner Quietly Tells Obama Debt-to-GNP Cost Poised to Increase to Record      Barack Obama  may lose the advantage of low borrowing costs                
 as the U.S. Treasury Department says what it pays to service                  
 the national debt is poised to triple amid record budget                      
 deficits. Interest expense will rise to 3.1 percent of gross                  
 domestic product by 2016, from 1.3 percent in 2010 with the                   
 government forecast to run cumulative deficits of more than $4                
 trillion through the end of 2015, according to page 23 of a                   
 24-page presentation made to a 13-member committee of bond                    
 dealers and investors that meet quarterly with Treasury                       
 officials. While some of the lowest borrowing costs on record                 
 have helped the economy recover from its worst financial crisis               
 since the Great Depression, bond yields are now rising as                     
 growth resumes. Net interest expense will triple to an all-time               
 high of $554 billion in 2015 from $185 billion in 2010,                       
 according to the Obama administration´s adjusted 2011 budget.                 
 "It´s a slow train wreck coming and we all know it´s going to                 
 happen," said Bret Barker, an interest-rate analyst at Los                    
 Angeles-based TCW Group Inc., which manages about $115 billion                
 in assets. "It´s just a question of whether we want to deal                   
 with it. There are huge structural changes that have to go on                 
 with this economy."                                                             5. Size Matters in Steel as Nippon Default Swaps Beating Posco: Japan Credit     Nippon Steel Corp. and Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. are                 
 showing that bigger is better in the  steel industry  for traders               
 in credit-default swaps. The cost of protecting debt of                       
 Tokyo-based Sumitomo Metal with credit-default swaps fell 20                  
 basis points in three days to a seven-week low of 67.47 on Feb.               
 7 after the company and Nippon Steel agreed to merge, a                       
 combination that would form the world´s second-biggest                        
 steelmaker after ArcelorMittal, according to Sumitomo Metal                   
 President Hiroshi Tomono. Investors consider Nippon less risky                
 than Pohang, South Korea- based Posco,  Asia ´s most-profitable                 
 producer, whose default swaps traded at 90.43 points the same                 
 day. Nippon Steel´s swaps fell to 63.41 basis points on Feb. 7                
 from 67.09 before the deal was announced on Feb. 3. "Tighter                  
 spreads reflect the more dominant power the two companies will                
 have in the global industry," Toshihiro Uomoto, a credit                      
 strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said. "They will be more                  
 competitive and on a larger scale. I expect the spreads to                    
 tighten further." While the companies´ combined debt of $26                   
 billion dwarfs Posco´s $3.2 billion, credit-default swap rates                
 show the advantage provided by the world´s lowest borrowing                   
 costs. Japan´s benchmark 10-year bonds yielded 1.295 percent                  
 last week, compared with 4.81 percent for similar-maturity                    
 Korean notes and 3.63 percent for U.S. Treasuries.                              6. Emergency Medical Said to Be Near $3.1 Billion Sale to Clayton Dubilier       Emergency Medical Services Corp. is near an agreement to be               
 acquired by private-equity firm Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC in                
 a leveraged buyout valued at about $3.1 billion, three people                 
 familiar with the matter said. Directors of the Greenwood                     
 Village, Colorado-based ambulance company plan to vote on the                 
 offer today and announce it tomorrow, said the people, who                    
 declined to be identified because the matter is private. Talks                
 may still break down. EMS, the largest U.S. operator of                       
 ambulance services and provider of emergency-room doctors, said               
 Dec. 14 it was looking at strategic alternatives. Directors had               
 pushed for higher bids from Clayton Dubilier and runner-up Bain               
 Capital LLC. The Deal first reported the winning bid earlier                  
 today. Clayton Dubilier may pay about $70 a share, the people                 
 said. That would be less than the company´s $70.66 closing                    
 price on Feb. 11 on the New York Stock Exchange. The final                    
 sales price may be $3 billion to $3.1 billion, one of the                     
 people said.                                                                    7. Stocks Back Sarkozy in Euro Survival as Greek Index Rises Most Since 1999     Europe´s most indebted nations are this year´s biggest                    
 stock market winners, a signal that investors are convinced by                
 assurances from the region´s leaders that the single currency                 
 will survive. Stocks in Greece, Spain and Italy, the worst                    
 performing developed markets in 2010, have gained 12 percent on               
 average this year. Spain´s IBEX 35 and Italy´s FTSE MIB are                   
 having the best start since 1998 while Greece´s ASE Index is                  
 surging the most since 1999, according to data compiled by                    
 Bloomberg. While last month 59 percent of respondents in a                    
 Bloomberg survey said at least one nation will leave the euro                 
 within five years, stocks suggest investors are becoming less                 
 concerned about the sovereign debt crisis. The rally is being                 
 fueled by demand for the cheapest stocks and support for the                  
 single currency from German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French               
 President  Nicolas Sarkozy , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.                  
 and SVG Investment Managers. "The politicians are pulling                     
 together for the survival of the euro," said Michael Barakos in               
  London , whose JPMorgan Europe Strategic Value fund´s gains have               
 already exceeded all of 2010 thanks to holdings including                     
 Spain´s Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. "A lot of people                  
 had thrown in the towel on  Europe . No matter what valuation,                  
 they did not want to take any risk here. People forget the                    
 market is not just economic, it is political."                                  8. Queensland Floods Drive U.S. Coal Exports to 15-Year High in Record Profit    The biggest floods in Queensland, Australia, in half a                    
 century are turning into a windfall for U.S. coal mining                      
 companies anticipating record profits and the highest exports                 
 in 15 years. Shipments from the U.S. are poised to rise 8.8                   
 percent this year to about 86.5 million tons, the most since                  
 1996, the Energy Department in  Washington  said Feb. 8. Demand                 
 for American coal is increasing after floods devastated an area               
 of Australia twice the size of Texas. Queensland´s combined                   
 output of steelmaking and thermal coal may be reduced by 23                   
 million metric tons, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a                  
 Jan. 25 report. That´s about 13 percent of the state´s exports                
 in the year ended in June. Disruptions will drive the average                 
 price of U.S. Eastern coal used to make steel up 13 percent to                
 $254 a ton and the fuel used in  power plants  to $74 a ton, 20                 
 percent higher than a year ago, according to the median of 11                 
 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. That may spur a fivefold                 
 profit gain for Alpha Natural Resources Inc. and 75 percent for               
 Walter Energy Inc., while boosting President Barack Obama´s                   
 goal of doubling exports by 2014. "Are we pushing the price?                  
 You´re damn straight we are," said Bob Pusateri, executive vice               
 president of sales and marketing at Canonsburg,                               
 Pennsylvania-based Consol Energy Inc., which operates 18 mines                
 across six U.S. states. "If there is a short-term phenomenon                  
 because of weather-related issues, the coal companies are going               
 to take advantage of it."                                                       9. Egypt Treasury Bill Yields Hold at 2-Year High in First Post-Mubarak Sale     Egypt paid yields that were close to the highest in two                   
 years at its first debt auction since the ouster of President                 
 Hosni Mubarak amid investor concern over the economic effects                 
 of 18 days of demonstrations. The Ministry of Finance sold a                  
 combined 6.5 billion pounds ($1.1 billion) in 91-day and                      
 266-day bills at a sale yesterday. The three-month bills                      
 yielded an average 10.95 percent compared with 10.97 percent at               
 last week´s sale, the highest since February 2009. Egypt´s                    
 bourse, closed for more than two weeks, will open Feb. 16 to                  
 allow companies to disclose the impact of protests on their                   
 business. Middle East shares rose yesterday. "The yields will                 
 stabilize or reverse direction to become a little lower" in the               
 short and medium term, said Walaa Hazem, who helps run about $1               
 billion in equity and fixed-income as vice president for asset                
 management at Cairo-based investment bank HC Security &                       
 Investment Co. A widening budget deficit and the likelihood of                
 a drop in economic growth will prevent yields from falling                    
 "significantly," he said. Finance Minister Samir Radwan said in               
 a Feb. 12 interview economic growth may drop to 4 percent in                  
 the fiscal year through June from 5.1 percent in the previous                 
 12 months. The  International Monetary Fund  estimated before the               
 unrest began that the country´s economy would expand 5.5                      
 percent in 2011, more than twice the 2.5 percent growth rate                  
 the IMF forecast for developed countries.                                       10.China Says Panel Will Begin Scrutinizing Acquisitions by Foreign Companies    China plans to create a ministerial panel to review                       
 takeovers of local companies by foreign investors. The panel                  
 will be led by the National Development and Reform Commission                 
 and the Ministry of Commerce and will be overseen by the State                
 Council, according to a statement published today on the                      
 council´s website. Coming under scrutiny will be acquisitions                 
 involving military industrial companies and others relating to                
 national defense, the statement said. It also will look at                    
 takeovers involving producers of agricultural goods, energy and               
 natural resources, as well as companies in some parts of the                  
 infrastructure and transportation-services industries. "Now                   
 foreign-funded M&A in China would be subject to review by a                   
 state-level investment-review authority and can be blocked on                 
 the ground of endangering national security, which may not be                 
 received favorably by international investors," said Hubert                   
 Tse, a Shanghai-based partner at law firm Boss & Young.                         11.Bailout Interest Rate Means Pain, No Gain for  Portugal  Market: Euro Credit    A European Union-led bailout of Portugal would raise the                  
 country´s borrowing costs and debt burden rather than offer                   
 respite unless policy makers reduce the rate charged for                      
 emergency loans. Portugal´s average debt-service cost is about                
 3.5 percent, according to the Lisbon-based debt agency. In a                  
 projection that assumes "very extreme" conditions, Portugal                   
 would have an "implicit funding cost" of less than 5 percent by               
 2013. Ireland pays an average 5.8 percent for its rescue                      
 financing. Portuguese leaders are fending off the views of                    
 economists such as New York University professor Nouriel                      
 Roubini, who has said Portugal will "soon enough" follow                      
 Ireland and Greece in being shut out of markets. European                     
 officials have said a lifeline for Portugal may be part of a                  
 financial-crisis fix they aim to pull together by the end of                  
 March, along with a possible reduction in loan rates. "It would               
 only make sense for Portugal to ask for a rescue if the average               
 interest rate of its debt were to become higher than the rate                 
 of the Irish aid," said Filipe Silva, who manages 60 million                  
 euros ($82 million) and holds bonds of Portuguese banks at                    
 Banco Carregosa in Oporto, Portugal. He no longer holds                       
 Portuguese government bonds or bills after selling them in                    
 December and January.                                                           12.Loving Your Boss on Weekday Valentine's Day Lifts Japan's Chocolate Makers    For 25-year-old Tokyo office worker Ryoko Ejiri,                          
 Valentine´s Day is about boxes of heart-shaped chocolates.                    
 She´s not getting them from admirers, she has to buy them for                 
 her bosses. "I´m spending more on chocolates this year than                   
 I´ve ever done in my life," said Ejiri, who stood in line for                 
 an hour at Isetan department store to buy the confectionery for               
 her four managers. "I´m offering them gifts to show thanks." On               
 Valentine´s Day in Japan, women buy chocolates for male                       
 coworkers rather than husbands and lovers, a tradition called                 
 "giri choco," or "obligation chocolate." With Feb. 14 falling                 
 on a weekday for the first time in three years, analysts say                  
 that´s a boon for candy makers like Meiji Holdings Ltd.,                      
 Morinaga & Co., and Morozoff Ltd. Valentine´s Day-related                     
 revenue will rise to a three-year high of about 40 billion yen                
 ($485 million), according to Toshihiro Nagahama, chief                        
 economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo.                         -0- Feb/14/2011 00:35 GMT
 