-- 
Top Stories: Worldwide

-- B y  
-- 
2011-02-14T00:35:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/top-stories-worldwide.html
The following are the day's top                    
general news stories:                                                            1. Egypt Constitution Suspended, Parliament Dissolved, Military Council Says   
2. Obama Budget Plan Aims to Cut Deficit by $1.1 Trillion in the Next Decade   
3. Street Protests Force Changes in  Egypt ,  Tunisia , Jordan, Yemen: Timeline    
4. Fighting China Drought Still Arduous Task Even as Snow Falls, Agency Says   
5. Tiger Woods Stumbles to 75 as Hole-in-One Quiros Wins Dubai Desert Classic    1. Egypt Constitution Suspended, Parliament Dissolved, Military Council Says     Egypt´s ruling army council said it aims to hand power to a               
 democratically elected government within six months, after                    
 almost three weeks of popular unrest ended 30 years of                        
 autocratic rule by President  Hosni Mubarak . The Supreme Council               
 of the Armed Forces yesterday dissolved parliament, suspended                 
 the constitution and said it would rule until general elections               
 take place. The council also formed a committee to introduce                  
 constitutional changes, according to a statement read on state                
 television yesterday. Protesters want the amendments to make it               
 easier to run for president, set  term limits  on the presidency                
 and cancel the constitutional authority for anti-terrorism                    
 measures such as arbitrary arrest, searches and military                      
 tribunals. Mass demonstrations forced Mubarak to cede power to                
 the army on Feb. 11, throwing into question the future course                 
 of a key U.S. ally. "It´s a positive sign that they canceled                  
 the parliament and suspended the constitution," Michael Hanna,                
 a fellow at The Century Foundation in  New York , said. "I think                
 from here there needs to be one firm timetable set."                            2. Obama Budget Plan Aims to Cut Deficit by $1.1 Trillion in the Next Decade     White House Budget Director  Jacob Lew  said the Obama                      
 administration´s 2012 budget would save $1.1 trillion over the                
 next 10 years by cutting programs to rein in a deficit that may               
 reach a record $1.5 trillion this year. "We have to start                     
 living within our means," Lew said on CNN´s "State of the                     
 Union" program. "The notion that we can do this painlessly --                 
 it´s not possible to do it painlessly. We´re going to make                    
 tough choices." Democratic President  Barack Obama  sends the                   
 third budget of his presidency to Congress tomorrow. About                    
 two-thirds of the savings would come from a five-year spending                
 freeze and cuts in domestic programs and an additional                        
 one-third would come from revenue increases, including limiting               
 itemized  tax deductions  for the wealthy, an administration                    
 official said. Some savings would be diverted to increased                    
 spending in education, research and development and technology                
 to compete against global rivals, create jobs and reduce the 9                
 percent unemployment rate, Lew said.                                            3. Fighting  China  Drought Still Arduous Task Even as Snow Falls, Agency Says     Snowfalls in China´s major wheat- growing regions failed to               
 ease a drought that has pushed global prices of the commodity                 
 to two-year highs, the country´s drought relief agency said.                  
 The dry spell is likely to continue to affect crops, as the                   
 weather is getting warmer and the winter wheat needs large                    
 amounts of water when turning green, said Chen Lei, deputy                    
 director at the State Flood Control and Drought Relief                        
 Headquarters, in a statement posted on its website on Feb. 12.                
 "China still faces an arduous task of fighting drought," Chen                 
 said. "Enhanced efforts of irrigation, recent rain and                        
 snowfalls helped prevent the drought spreading in some winter-                
 wheat growing areas." China, the world´s biggest grains                       
 consumer, will spend 12.9 billion yuan ($2 billion) to fight                  
 drought and boost grain production,  China Central Television                   
 said on Feb. 10, citing Premier  Wen Jiabao . Wheat futures for                 
 March delivery on Feb. 9 reached the highest price for a                      
 most-active contract since Aug. 25, 2008 in  Chicago  after the                 
  U.S. Department of Agriculture  cut its outlook for global grain               
 supplies.                                                                       4.  Tiger Woods  Stumbles to 75 as Hole-in-One Quiros Wins Dubai Desert Classic    Spain´s Alvaro Quiros hit a hole-in- one as he won golf´s                 
 Dubai Desert Classic by a single shot, while Tiger Woods                      
 slipped out of contention after a final round that included a                 
 double-bogey at the last hole. The 28-year-old Quiros finished                
 on 11-under-par 277 at the Emirates Golf Club following a                     
 final-round 68, with  South Africa ´s James Kingston and Anders                 
 Hansen of  Denmark  on 10- under. Woods was 3-over today, giving                
 him a four-round total of 4-under. "It was the perfect shot,"                 
 Quiros told reporters of his hole-in-one. "Once a year it                     
 happens." Woods, seeking his first victory since November 2009,               
 was among several players to fade today, with  Spain ´s Sergio                  
 Garcia tying for 20th with the American after also carding a                  
 3-over round.  Northern Ireland ´s Rory McIlroy dropped to 10th                 
 and world No. 1  Lee Westwood  of England dropped three shots on                
 the last two holes to finish 15th.                                              -0- Feb/14/2011 00:35 GMT
 