-- 
Motorola Mobility Buys 3LM to Tackle RIM’s BlackBerry

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-02-14T22:09:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/motorola-mobility-buys-3lm-to-tackle-rim-s-corporate-dominance.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., the
mobile-phone maker spun off from Motorola Inc., bought business
software maker Three Laws Mobility Inc., aiming to woo corporate
customers with alternatives to the BlackBerry smartphone.  3LM, as the company is known, was acquired at the end of
last year for an undisclosed sum, Libertyville, Illinois-based
Motorola said in a statement today. The company’s software, for
security and managing mobile devices, will be shipped with
Motorola phones in the second quarter, Christy Wyatt, corporate
vice president for software and services, said in an interview.  Corporations are testing  Apple Inc .’s iPhone and devices
such as Motorola’s Droid that run on  Google Inc .’s Android
software as alternatives to  Research In Motion Ltd .’s BlackBerry
for corporate e-mail. Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc.
are among those considering whether to let their staff use
BlackBerry alternatives, three people familiar with the plans
said in November.  The 3LM software is already being tested with a number of
Fortune 100 companies, Wyatt said, adding that she continues to
get unsolicited e-mails asking about the software.  Motorola Mobility will announce tomorrow the names of other
Android-based handset makers to whom it will license the
software, she said. The advantages of fostering Android adoption
among companies outweighs the risk of sharing the software with
rivals, she said.  “If we cooperate we can open up the business market to
Android,” she said.  HTC Corp. and Samsung Electronics Co. both sell Android
phones in the U.S.  IPhone Competition  Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Jha is relying on the
surging popularity of Android to sell more smartphones and fend
off the threat from the iPhone, which went on sale at  Verizon
Wireless  this month. That won’t affect Motorola’s plans to
expand its range of Droid handsets with Verizon, Alain Mutricy,
senior vice-president, platform technology for mobile devices,
said in an interview today.  “We have very common equity in the Droid brand and
franchise,” Mutricy, who joined Motorola from Texas Instruments
Inc. in 2002, said from Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. “We
are working very closely with Verizon.”  The imminent arrival of the iPhone at Verizon Wireless,
Motorola’s biggest carrier partner, had already triggered “some
slowdown,” Jha told analysts on Jan. 26. The end of AT&T Inc.’s
exclusive right to carry the iPhone in the U.S. “had an impact
on sales,” Mutricy said today. “We are in the middle of
this.”  Motorola Mobility fell $1.70, or 5.5 percent, to $29.45 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  