-- 
For-Profit-College Backers Push House Measure Blocking Obama Regulation

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-15T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/house-lawmakers-aim-to-block-for-profit-college-funds-rule.html
For-profit colleges may get another
delay in an Education Department proposal to limit their revenue
from a U.S. House of Representatives budget measure.  An amendment the House may consider today would block
funding for the Education Department’s “gainful employment”
proposal, said Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota Republican
and education committee chairman. For-profit colleges have
lobbied against the rule that would tie their eligibility for
U.S. government student aid to students’ incomes and loan
repayment rates.  Congress and state prosecutors have investigated sales
practices and the use of federal funds by for-profit colleges.
The industry doubled its spending on lobbying and mounted a
letter-writing campaign last year that led the department to
delay publication of the regulation. Some House Democrats and
Republicans oppose the rule because it would limit opportunities
for minority and low-income students who attend for-profit
colleges, said Representative Alcee Hastings, a Florida
Democrat.  “Our sense is that this will be a large bipartisan vote”
in favor of the amendment, said Hastings, who spoke yesterday to
reporters in  Washington  with Kline. “Nothing gets the attention
of the bureaucracy like a bipartisan effort.”  The amendment may go to the House floor for debate today as
part of a budget bill, and also would have to be adopted by the
Senate to take effect, Hastings said. Senate Democrats haven’t
supported for-profit colleges, making the amendment’s passage
there “a high hurdle,” said Jarrel Price, an analyst with
Height Analytics in Washington.  ‘More Meaningful’  If the amendment were to pass in the Senate “it will be
far more meaningful than a simple delay,” Price said in a
telephone interview. “The proposed regulation has been
primarily responsible for downward pressure on the space for a
year and a half, and removing it would allow investors to
confidently return. It could be perceived as the death of
gainful employment.”  The Bloomberg U.S. For-Profit Education Index of 13
companies has declined 21 percent in the past 12 months led by a
64 percent drop by  Santa Ana , California-based  Corinthian
Colleges Inc .  For-profit colleges get as much as 90 percent of their
revenue from U.S. student grants and loans. The Education
Department began drafting the gainful employment rule last year
as data showed that for-profit college students were about twice
as likely to default on  student loans  as the national average.  Senate Hearings  In hearings held by Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat
and chairman of the Senate education committee, videotapes
showed for-profit college recruiters misleading government
investigators posing as applicants. Harkin said he would fight
the House budget amendment.  Gainful employment is “a common-sense rule to ensure that
taxpayer-funded federal aid does not go to for-profit colleges
or other career programs that consistently leave their students
with debt they cannot repay,” Harkin said yesterday in an e-
mail. “Blocking this rule would amount to willfully ignoring
how billions of taxpayer dollars are used every year, shirking
our responsibility to both the American taxpayers and the
students who deserve a better education.”  Representative  George Miller , a California Democrat, will
oppose the amendment, Melissa Salmanowitz, a spokeswoman, said
in a telephone interview.  Proposed Amendment  The House proposed amendment would block funding for the
gainful employment rule for the remainder of the current fiscal
year, which ends Sept. 30, and would provide more time to change
the department’s plan, Kline said. The amendment also would stop
government rules scheduled to go into effect July 1 requiring
for-profit colleges to notify the department before offering new
courses, he said.  “This gives us more time, or the department more time, to
consider the language of the rules,” he said yesterday. “We
know that there are proprietary schools that have had plans to
expand and have stopped or laid off people in large part because
of the threat of these rules.”    Apollo Group Inc ., the biggest U.S. for-profit college and
operator of the University of Phoenix, the  Washington Post Co .’s
Kaplan Higher Education unit,  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based  Career Education Corp . and Corinthian have announced job cuts
since November.  “Stopping gainful employment through this amendment is
absolutely the right thing to do,” said Penny Lee, managing
director of the  Coalition for Educational Success , a Chicago-
based industry group, in an e-mail. “Its passage will allow
millions of students -- nontraditional students, active military
and veterans -- access to a higher education and a pathway to a
job.”  Talks on Proposals  Hastings said he and other representatives have met at
least twice with Education Secretary Arne Duncan to discuss the
rules. Kline said he has also spoken with Duncan about a rule
that limits for-profit colleges to getting no more than 90
percent of their revenue from federal student grants and loans.  Kline got $56,500 from educators and their families’ last
year, his fourth-biggest source of campaign contributions during
his re-election campaign, according to the  Center for Responsive
Politics , a Washington-based research group. For-profit colleges
hired at least six former members of Congress, including Richard Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat and the former House majority
leader, to lobby for them last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  