-- 
Palm Oil Declines, Tracking Crude Oil, as Egypt Crisis Eases

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-02-14T11:24:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/palm-oil-declines-tracking-crude-oil-as-egypt-crisis-eases.html
  Palm oil  dropped, tracking crude  oil
prices  that traded near the lowest level in 10 weeks after an
end to protests in  Egypt  eased concern that oil shipments from
the Middle East will be disrupted.  The April-delivery contract lost 0.6 percent and closed at
3,933 ringgit ($1,288) a metric ton on the  Malaysia  Derivatives
Exchange in Kuala Lumpur. Prices advanced 1.5 percent last week.  Crude oil slipped 1.3 percent on Feb. 11 after Egyptian
President Hosni Mubarak stepped down and handed power to the
military after an 18-day revolt. Futures in  New York  rose to a
two-year high last month on concern supply through Egypt’s Suez
Canal may be interrupted and unrest may spread to other parts of
the Middle East.  “Soy and crude fell last Friday on the news of Egypt after
Mubarak relinquished his power,” Ker Chung Yang, an analyst at
Phillip Futures Pte, said in a reply to e-mailed questions.
“This is likely to weigh on crude palm oil prices.”  Palm oil is a substitute for soybean oil in food and fuel
uses and shifts in energy costs can influence prices of the
tropical commodity in  Kuala Lumpur .  Today’s decline in palm oil prices may be limited because
inventories in Malaysia, the second-largest producer, fell to a
six-month low in January and production is likely to be affected
if wet-weather conditions persist in Malaysia, said Ker.  Stockpiles shrank to 1.4 million tons, the smallest amount
since July, the Malaysian Palm Oil Board said on Feb. 10. Output
declined 14.2 percent to 1.06 million tons, the lowest level in
almost four years, as floods hampered harvesting and cut yields
amid the annual low-production season.  ‘Supply Crunch’  “Crude palm oil prices will continue to hold up over the
first quarter of 2011, given the existing supply crunch in the
oilseed industry,” Bernard Ching, an analyst at ECM Libra
Capital Sdn., said in a report today.  Most computer models that forecast weather patterns
indicate La Nina is likely to persist through the Northern
Hemisphere spring, the U.S. Climate Prediction Center said last
week. It may continue through August, curbing corn and soybean
harvests in  China  and the U.S., Commodity Weather Group LLC said
in a separate report last month.  March-delivery soybeans advanced as much as 0.6 percent to
$14.2475 a bushel in Chicago and traded at $14.1925 at 6:04 p.m.  Singapore  time.  September-delivery palm oil on the  Dalian Commodity
Exchange  gained 0.2 percent to close at 10,182 yuan ($1,544) a
ton. CME Group Inc.’s most-active May palm-oil contract, pegged
to the Malaysian benchmark price, rose 1.5 percent to $1,272.50
a ton at 12:23 p.m. in Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 