-- 
Pandora Sales More Than Double Ahead of IPO

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-05-26T20:42:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/pandora-ipo-rewards-backers-marcus-gotcher-three-years-after-near-failure.html
Pandora Media Inc., the Internet-
music company preparing for an initial public offering, said
revenue more than doubled last quarter and its user base topped
90 million, solidifying its lead in streaming radio.  Sales rose to $51 million in the three months ended April
30, from $21.6 million a year earlier, the Oakland, California-
based company said today in a regulatory filing. The company
said it expects to complete the share sale by the end of June.  Pandora aims to build investor interest for its planned
$100 million IPO, which would follow the public market debuts of
other popular Internet startups. Shares of professional-
networking site LinkedIn Corp. and Russian search engine Yandex
NV both surged after initial offerings this month. Social-media
game developer Zynga Inc. may file for an IPO by the end of
June, a person familiar with the matter said this week.  Pandora plans to list its shares on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker symbol P. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan
Stanley and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  will serve as the underwriters.  Founded in 2000 by Tim Westergren under the name Savage
Beast, Pandora made 86 percent of its sales from advertisements
that target users based on age, gender, home ZIP code and
musical taste. Ads support the free radio service, though the
company also sells subscriptions to users who prefer to listen
without advertising.  Spending on marketing and acquiring the rights to songs
widened Pandora’s losses. The net loss attributable to common
shareholders in the quarter ended April 30 was $9.1 million, or
61 cents a share, compared with $4.97 million, or 64 cents, a
year earlier.  Credit Line   The company also borrowed $30 million through a credit line
from JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley this month, according to
today’s filing.  Pandora’s ad revenue surged over the past two years as its
music application became one of the most popular on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android devices. Sales more than
doubled to $137.8 million in fiscal 2011.  Pandora is facing increased competition from a variety of
rivals, including Apple itself. That company reached agreements
with three major record labels to let users of its music service
access their song collections from handheld devices, people with
knowledge of the deals said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  