-- 
Penske Ends Distribution of Daimler's Smart Brand Cars as Sales Plunge

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-02-14T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/penske-ends-distribution-of-daimler-s-smart-brand-cars-as-sales-plunge.html
  Penske Automotive Group Inc ., the
second-largest U.S. automotive retailer, is ending its
distribution agreement with  Daimler AG ’s Smart car brand after
sales of the fuel-efficient model plunged.  Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz USA is expected to take over the
sales, marketing and warranty administration for the brand by
the end of the second quarter, the companies said today in a
statement. Penske also will cancel development of a five-door
small car for Smart that was being provided by Nissan Motor Co.,
said Anthony Pordon, a spokesman for the retailer.  Smart deliveries fell to 5,927 last year, a 76 percent drop
from 2008, when the brand debuted in the U.S. with its Fortwo
small car. Mercedes may be folding the Smart business into its
U.S. operations to help meet fuel-economy standards that rise to
as much as 62 miles per gallon by 2025, said David Whiston, an
analyst at  Morningstar Inc . in  Chicago .  “Penske is getting rid of an underperforming brand and
likely will still retain a lot of profitable parts-and-service
business,” Whiston said in a telephone interview.  Penske, based in  Bloomfield Hills , Michigan, has 10 Smart
stores in its portfolio of 325 franchises, Pordon said. Six of
those stores sell Mercedes vehicles and may continue to retail
Smarts, he said.  Mercedes will decide how many Penske-owned dealerships will
be allowed to continue selling Smarts, Pordon said. It’s too
early to determine whether the move will have a financial impact
on Penske, he said.  Daimler last year moved Smart’s headquarters to  Germany ,
where the unit would be managed as an independent brand under
the Mercedes-Benz cars unit. Daimler is based in Stuttgart.  The Smart Fortwo gets an estimated 41 mpg in highway
driving, the companies said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at  