-- 
Gates Warns of `Serious Disruptions' If Military Budget Passage Is Delayed

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-02-16T22:37:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/pentagon-requests-671-billion-for-basic-spending-wars.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
warned Congress today that delays in passing this year’s
military budget will cause “serious disruptions.”  Gates also repeated his opposition to continued funding of
a spare engine for the  Lockheed Martin Corp . F-35 jet fighter,
which he said would waste almost $3 billion. The U.S. House
voted later in the day 233-198 to back Gates and kill the spare
engine program.  Gates, in his “fifth and final” round of defense budget
hearings in Washington, warned that pending stopgap spending
legislation for fiscal 2011, which began Oct. 1, would “damage
procurement and research programs.” Gates has said he will
retire later this year.  Interim spending legislation in effect through March 4
projects a core Pentagon budget for the current year at about
$526 billion, about $24 billion less than the Pentagon request.  Gates told the House Armed Services Committee the stopgap
legislation, if extended for the full year, would “fall heavily
on operations and maintenance accounts” but also weapons buying
and research.  It “would damage procurement and research programs,
causing delays, rising costs, no new program starts and serious
disruptions in production of some of our most high demand
assets,” such as drones, he said.  The Pentagon is requesting $671 billion for fiscal 2012,
starting Oct. 1, $37 billion less than this year’s request.  Iraq and  Afghanistan   The new request includes $553 billion in core Department of
Defense spending, including weapons procurement, and $117.8
billion in military spending in Iraq and Afghanistan.  Gates reiterated his opposition to the  General Electric Co .
F136 alternative engine for the F-35 jet program. While the
Pentagon has opposed the program since fiscal 2007, Congress has
repeatedly restored funding.  The House voted today to cut off engine funding as part of
its debate on a 2011 budget bill. The Senate would take up the
bill following House action.  “The Congress has not spoken with one voice on this matter
and the department has been operating this fiscal year under
ambiguous guidance at best” so the Pentagon will continue to
spend $28 million a month on the program, Gates said.  Continuing the GE program “would be a waste of nearly $3
billion,” Gates said.  Gates’s estimate was challenged last year by nonpartisan
congressional auditors.  General Electric’s program may cost less than the
Pentagon’s $2.9 billion estimate, the Government Accountability
Office said in a Sept. 15 report.  The projection “does not include the same level of
fidelity and precision normally associated with a detailed,
comprehensive estimate,” the GAO wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  