-- 
Obama Budget May Shift Money to Head Off Physician Payment Cuts

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-02-14T16:53:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/physician-payment-cuts-would-be-averted-in-shifting-of-u-s-budget-funds.html
President  Barack Obama  would shift
more than $50 billion in Medicare and Medicaid payments to
doctors away from states, insurers and drugmakers in the next
decade to avert cuts in federal physician reimbursements.  Obama’s budget proposal for fiscal 2012 addresses
reimbursements to doctors in Medicare, the U.S. program for the
elderly and disabled. A formula Congress enacted in 1997 to
limit growth in agency spending on physicians dictates cuts in
doctors’ fees that Congress has blocked annually since 2003.  The  American Medical Association , doctors’ main  Washington 
lobby group, has said that physicians may refuse to treat
Medicare beneficiaries unless further cuts are stopped. Obama
would cut federal health spending by $62 billion in the next
decade, with about $54 billion of the savings used to boost
doctors’ reimbursements beginning in 2012.  While the budget “might move stocks,” Justin Lake, a
health-care analyst with  UBS AG (UBSN) , wrote in a note to clients
today, “it typically has a modest success rate” in Congress,
where Republicans control the House and represent “another
obstacle in this regard.”  The budget would cut Medicaid payments to states by more
than $18 billion in 10 years. The administration also wants to
recover $6 billion in payments to private Medicare insurers led
by  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  that the White House describes as
“erroneous.” The spending blueprint would prohibit brand-name
and generic-drug manufacturers from cutting deals to delay the
introduction of less-expensive copies, saving $8.8 billion.  Cut for HHS  Obama’s budget requests $82.2 billion for the  U.S.
Department of Health  and Human Services in fiscal 2012, a 2.6
percent decrease from fiscal 2010. Obama’s fiscal 2011 budget
proposal was never enacted, and the government is currently
operating at 2010 spending levels.  HHS manages both Medicare and Medicaid, the state-run
health program for the poor, as well as agencies including the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration ,  National Institutes of
Health , Centers for Disease Control & Prevention and welfare and
child-support programs.  Obama proposes cutting spending for some agencies within
HHS and increasing the budget in other areas.  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which
administers the entitlement programs and is implementing large
parts of the health-care law, would have an 18 percent increase
in its administrative budget compared with fiscal 2010, to $4.4
billion. Headcount at the agency would rise 22 percent compared
with 2010, and include more than 900 new full-time employees.  Delayed Cuts  Congressional Republicans  have said they will try to block
funding for implementation of the health law.  The Indian Health Service, FDA, NIH and the U.S.
Administration on Aging would all also have budget increases
compared with 2010.  The budget proposes cutting spending by 9 percent, compared
with fiscal 2010, for the Health Resources and Services
Administration and the CDC; by 7 percent for the Administration
for Children and Families, and by 1 percent for the Substance
Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.  Obama’s budget would put off the cuts through the end of
the 2013 calendar year at a cost of $54.4 billion. To pay for
the fix, he proposes to cut health spending in other areas.  States would take the largest hit, as the budget proposes
limiting taxes that state governments assess on health providers
in order to boost their Medicaid payments from the federal
government. The effect of the tax limit is to save the U.S.
government $18 billion in Medicaid payments in a decade.  Drug Industry Hit  Obama proposes to raise money from the  drug industry  in
several different ways.  Authorizing the Federal Trade Commission to bar brand-name
drugmakers led by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  from paying producers of generic
medicines to delay their entrance into the market would reduce
U.S. health spending by $8.8 billion during 10 years, according
to the budget plan. U.S. Senators  Herb Kohl , a Wisconsin
Democrat, and  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, introduced
legislation last month to limit such accords.  Obama seeks to open debate on the first copies of biotech
medicines, such as products by  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  His budget proposes to
allow generic competition to brand-name biologic drugs after
seven years, which was the administration’s stance before
lawmakers and drugmakers agreed to 12 years of exclusivity in
last year’s health-care overhaul. The change is projected to
save the government $2.3 billion in a decade.  The budget includes proposals to start charging drug
companies for follow-up plant inspections after violations are
found and for review of new generic drug applications. The
programs would generate an estimated $729 million in 10 years.  The budget would raise $6.4 billion in the next decade by
requiring suppliers of home medical equipment, such as walkers
and hospital beds, to serve Medicaid patients at a lower
reimbursement based on Medicare payment rates. Companies
involved in the equipment business include Lincare Holdings Inc.
and  Invacare Corp. (IVC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 