-- 
Picasso Work, Berezovsky Papers Found in Moscow Gambling Raid

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-02-14T14:42:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/picasso-work-berezovsky-papers-found-in-moscow-gambling-raid.html
Russia’s Federal Security Service
said it found artworks by Pablo Picasso and Rembrandt and
documents for offshore companies belonging to self-exiled
investor  Boris Berezovsky  in a raid on an illegal gambling
operation in Moscow.  The paintings, worth more than $5 million, and documents
were found in the main office of a building in central Moscow
that was once used by Berezovsky, said the FSB, as the main
successor to the Soviet-era KGB is known, on its  website .  The crime syndicate that operated out of building No. 40 on
Novokuznetskaya Ulitsa was able to earn as much as $10 million
a month in part because of the “support” it received from
senior law enforcement officials in the Moscow region, including
a first deputy prosecutor, the FSB said. The building also
houses the  Triumph  art gallery.  The Berezovsky documents relate to properties held by the
businessman and his family outside of Russia, the FSB said.
Berezovsky, who received political asylum in the U.K. after
fleeing  Russia  in 2001, has been sentenced in absentia to prison
terms for embezzlement. Berezovsky couldn’t be reached for
comment immediately when Bloomberg called his mobile phone.  Moscow Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin , Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s former chief of staff, vowed to create special units to
raid illegal gambling operations “24 hours a day” after
President  Dmitry Medvedev  fired his predecessor, Yuri Luzhkov,
in September after 18 years in power.  As president in 2006, Putin called for casinos to be shut
to reduce addiction and clamp down on organized crime. He set up
four special zones for gambling in the far reaches of the
country. Medvedev has since taken the lead in the campaign,
likening gambling addiction to a public health hazard.  Russia had 3 million gambling addicts, or 2.1 percent of
the population, according to a 2008 estimate by NarcoDen, a
Moscow-based rehabilitation specialist.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  