-- 
Gross Cuts Government Holdings to Lowest Since 2009

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-02-14T13:54:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/pimco-s-gross-lowers-government-debt-holdings-to-lowest-since-january-2009.html
  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., reduced
its holdings of government related debt to the lowest level
since January 2009 while saying low yields cheat investors.  Gross cut the proportion of U.S. government and related
securities in Pimco’s $239 billion Total Return Fund to 12
percent of assets in January from 22 percent in December,
according to the  Newport Beach , California-based company’s
 website . He increased the percentage of cash equivalent holdings
to 5 percent, the highest since April.  Policy makers are robbing savers by driving down real  interest rates  as they keep borrowing costs at record lows in a
“devil’s bargain,” Gross said in his monthly investment
 commentary  on Feb. 2. He advised investors to reduce holdings of
Treasuries and U.K. gilts and buy higher-returning securities
such as debt from emerging-market nations.  “Old-fashioned gilts and Treasury bonds may need to be
’exorcised’ from model portfolios and replaced with more
attractive alternatives both from a risk and a reward
standpoint,” Gross wrote two weeks ago. Pimco doesn’t comment
directly on monthly changes in its portfolio holdings.  Pimco’s U.S. government-related debt category can include
conventional and inflation-linked Treasuries, agency debt,
interest-rate derivatives, Treasury futures and options and bank
debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., according to
the company’s website.  Easy Policies  Treasuries returned 5.9 percent in 2010 after losing 2.7
percent in the fourth quarter, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Indexes. The securities lost 1.3 percent so far
this year.  “A low or negative real interest rate for an ‘extended
period of time’ is the most devilish of all policy tools, Gross
wrote. “And the asset class holder that it affects, or better
yet, infects, is the small saver and institutions such as
insurance companies and pension funds.”  Gross kept the holdings of non-U.S. developed debt steady
at four percent in January.  Because of so-called easy monetary policies in developed
countries, combined with larger debt loads and increasing
inflation expectations, investors in developed market sovereign
debt are taking a “haircut,” he said. This will continue as
the  Federal Reserve  is unlikely to raise interest rates for at
least 12 months because the  U.S. economy  isn’t generating enough
growth to lower unemployment, Gross said Feb. 4 in an interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Returns  Gross kept holdings of emerging-market debt at 9 percent in
January, the same as the previous month. He trimmed holdings of
mortgage securities to 42 percent from 45 percent in December
and raised the Total Return Fund’s net cash-and-equivalent
position from negative 7 percent. It can have a so-called
negative position by using derivatives, futures or by shorting.  Gross’s fund has returned 7 percent in the past year,
beating 82 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It lost 0.43 percent over the past month.  Derivatives are financial obligations whose value is
derived from an underlying asset. Futures are agreements to buy
or sell assets at a later specific price and date. Shorting is
borrowing and selling an asset in anticipation of making a
profit by buying it back after its price has fallen.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.24 trillion of assets as of December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  