-- 
Portugal’s GDP Falls 0.3% in First Decline in a Year

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-02-14T16:44:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/portugal-s-fourth-quarter-gdp-shrinks-0-3-from-third-quarter.html
Portugal’s economy contracted in the
fourth quarter for the first time in a year as the government
cut spending and raised taxes to narrow its  budget deficit .  Gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent from the three
months through September, when it expanded a revised 0.2
percent, the National Statistics Institute said in a preliminary
report today. The decline was in line with the median forecast
of seven economists in a Bloomberg News survey. GDP rose 1.2
percent from a year earlier. For the full year, it expanded 1.4
percent, more than the government’s 1.3 percent estimate.  “The contribution of exports of goods and services to the
year-on-year change in GDP remained high in the fourth quarter,
although a little lower than observed in the previous quarter,”
the Lisbon-based institute said in its report. Household
spending slowed, it said.  The government is counting on exports such as paper and
wood products to support economic growth this year amid the
deepest spending cuts in more than three decades.  Portugal  is
cutting state workers’ wages and raising taxes to convince
investors it can avoid a bailout and further narrow the euro
region’s fourth-biggest budget gap after  Greece ’s debt crisis
led to a surge in borrowing costs last year.  “The big source of growth this year will continue to be
the exporting sector,” Portuguese Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos told reporters in Brussels today.  Yield Spread  The spread between Portuguese and German 10-year bond
yields narrowed to 411 basis points today from a euro-era record
of 484 on Nov. 11. In November, Ireland became the second euro
country after Greece to seek a bailout and the first to request
aid from the European Financial Stability Facility.  In its budget, the  Portuguese government  forecast economic
growth of 0.2 percent in 2011. The Bank of Portugal said Jan. 11
GDP will fall 1.3 percent in 2011 as consumer demand drops and
the government cuts spending.  GDP has risen by less than 1 percent a year on average in
the past decade, one of  Europe ’s weakest growth rates.  The government is trimming the wage bill by 5 percent for
public-sector workers earning more than 1,500 euros ($2,020) a
month, freezing hiring and raising value-added  sales tax  by 2
percentage points to 23 percent to help narrow a deficit that
amounted to 9.3 percent of GDP in 2009.  Portugal will report a 2010 deficit of 7 percent of GDP or
less, compared with the forecast 7.3 percent, Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  said on Jan. 28. The government has set a 2011
deficit target of 4.6 percent of GDP and aims to reach the
European Union limit of 3 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  