-- 
South Africa Bonds Rise on Stable Rate View; Rand Reverses Gains

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-02-14T17:17:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/rand-climbs-snapping-three-day-slide-versus-dollar-as-egypt-crisis-eases.html
South African bonds rose, pushing
the yield to the lowest in more than two weeks, as analysts bet
an inflation report this week will give the central bank more
room to leave  interest rates  at a record low.  The 13.5 percent security due September 2015 rose 13 cents
to 121.52 rand, reducing the yield by 3 basis points to 7.82
percent by 6:41 p.m. in Johannesburg, the lowest since Jan. 27.
The rand lost 0.5 percent to 7.3153 per dollar, reversing an
earlier gain of as much as 0.6 percent.  A government report due Feb. 16 is expected to show the
annual inflation rate in Africa’s biggest economy quickened to
3.7 percent in January, from 3.5 percent in December, according
to the median estimate of 20 economists polled by Bloomberg.
That’s still lower than the upper limit of central bank’s target
range.  “South  Africa  is one of the markets we’re still quite
positive on. It still offers good value considering where yields
are at the moment,” Vivienne Taberer, a portfolio manager who
helps manage about $70 billion at Investec Asset Management in  Cape Town , said by telephone. “We’re also quite optimistic on
inflation and don’t think there’s a risk of an interest-rate
rise at least until the very end of the year.”  Foreign investors purchased almost 60 billion rand ($8.2
billion) of South African bonds last year as interest rates in
developed nations fell to near-zero levels, encouraging
international buyers to purchase assets in higher-yield markets.
Benchmark rates as low as 0.1 percent in Japan and 0.25 percent
in the U.S. compare with 5.5 percent in  South Africa .  Recovering Sentiment  South African bonds slumped last month, driving up yields
on the 13.5 percent bond due 2015 by 52 basis points.  “Sentiment towards local bonds has recovered at these
higher yield levels as foreign investors find value,” Tradition
Analytics analysts led by Quinten Bertenshaw in Johannesburg,
wrote in a client note today.  The 3.63 percent yield on 10-year Treasuries compares with
yields of 8.52 percent available on similar dated South African
bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  South Africa’s central bank lowered its main interest rate
to a record low as a surge in the rand helped reduce the cost of
oil and other imports, further enhancing the appeal of bonds,
which guarantee a fixed return. The rand rallied 42 percent
against the dollar in the two years through the end of 2010.  “The rand might be a bit weaker today but it’s still
relatively well-behaved from a historical perspective,” said
Taberer. The rand slid to as weak as 11.87 per dollar in October
2008 as the global financial crisis caused investors to dump
assets perceived as risky.  The currency strengthened against the dollar earlier today
after Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak ’s resignation late on
Feb. 11 reduced concerns that civil unrest would spread
throughout the Middle East, boosting investors demand for
higher-yielding assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  