-- 
Rejected Tax Increases for High Earners Return in Obama's Budget Proposal

-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-02-15T05:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/rejected-tax-increases-for-high-earners-return-in-obama-s-budget-proposal.html
President  Barack Obama  renewed his
call to raise taxes paid by U.S.-based multinational
corporations and oil and gas companies, complicating efforts to
overhaul the corporate  tax code  this year.  The president, in a $3.7 trillion budget plan released
yesterday in Washington, revived dozens of proposals that
Congress has rejected, including $129 billion in higher taxes on
the overseas profits of U.S. companies. He also proposed
changing the tax treatment of oil, gas and coal companies, which
would raise about $46 billion.  The proposals revived opposition from businesses. They had
been looking for a signal of a friendlier tax stance.  “There was the hope they would consider some of the
arguments and concerns that were raised by the multinationals”
after Obama included similar proposals in his first two budgets,
said Lindy Paull, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in
Washington.  Obama and Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in the past
few months have held a series of meetings with corporate
executives, who have pushed for reducing taxes on global profits
rather than increasing them.  ‘Fundamental Changes’  “There is disappointment that those proposals were not
revised and that they’re continued to be labeled loophole
closers when they are pretty fundamental changes to the tax
code,” Paull said. “People have spent a lot of time and effort
trying to discuss that with the administration.”  Michigan Representative  Dave Camp , a Republican who would
play a pivotal role in any rewrite of the tax code as chairman
of the House Ways and Means Committee, blasted Obama’s
proposals.  “Rather than setting the stage for broad-based, pro-growth  tax reform , this budget goes in the opposite direction with more
tax hikes,” Camp said.  The proposal also would bring back pre-2001 tax rates on
income and  capital gains  for individuals earning more than
$200,000 annually and married couples making more than $250,000.
The estate tax would return to 2009 levels with a $3.5 million
per-person exemption and a 45 percent top rate. Under a law
Obama signed in December, lower rates expire at the end of 2012.  “The president was unable to reverse the Bush tax cuts
this past year with a majority in each house of Congress, so
it’s very difficult to see how he will be successful over the
next two years with the Republicans firmly in control of the
House,” said Neal Weber, managing director in charge of RSM
McGladrey’s  Washington  national tax office.  Limits on Deductions  The budget plan would limit itemized deductions for top
earners to 28 percent, curbing the value of tax breaks for
charitable contributions, home mortgage interest and state and
local taxes. That proposal has been included in every budget of
Obama’s presidency and was rejected as a revenue-raising
provision to fund his overhaul of the health system last year.  Under the budget’s assumptions, federal revenue as a
percent of the economy would increase from 14.9 percent in 2010
to 20 percent in 2021. Part of that increase stems from
projected economic growth, not from policy changes.  A key Senate Republican also criticized the tax increases
in the budget.  “This budget fails to preserve the pro-growth policies
needed to expand our economy, create jobs and reduce the
deficit,” said Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican
on the Finance Committee.  Administration officials said the budget is balanced with
proposals favorable to business, such as making permanent a tax
credit for conducting research.  Tax Incentives  Obama proposed an array of other tax incentives. They
include the elimination of capital gains on some small business
stock and one to revive the Build America Bonds program, which
expired at the end of 2010.  The budget also proposes converting a deduction for energy-
efficient buildings into a credit. Obama wants to extend a
provision expiring at the end of 2011 that allows certain energy
tax credits to be converted into grants.  Instead, many in the business community are focusing on
renewed proposals to place limits on multinational companies’
ability to defer income taxes on profits they earn outside the
U.S. These plans have drawn criticism from corporations such as  Microsoft Corp . and  Cisco Systems Inc .  The budget also revives a proposal that Congress require
executives of investment partnerships including private-equity
firms to pay ordinary tax rates on the profits they receive as
compensation. This pay, known as carried interest, currently can
qualify for lower capital gains tax rates. The proposal would
raise $14.8 billion over 10 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan J. Donmoyer in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  