-- 
Ambani's Reliance Communications Reports Profit Tumbles 57%, Debt Soars

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-02-15T11:57:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/reliance-communications-third-quarter-net-income-beats-analysts-estimates.html
Billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance
Communications Ltd . reported a sixth straight drop in quarterly
profit amid falling prices, undermining the company’s ability to
reduce the biggest debt load in India’s phone industry.  Third-quarter net income fell 57 percent from a year ago to
4.8 billion rupees ($106 million), the company  said  yesterday.
While that beat the 3.6 billion rupee average analysts’ estimate
compiled by Bloomberg, sales and earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization missed projections.  The results may erode investor confidence in a company
reeling from a one-day, 14 percent stock slide, a 71 percent
surge in net debt, and a deepening government probe into the
sale of mobile-phone licenses sold in 2008. Ambani’s group,
which had blamed “baseless” speculation from unidentified
rivals and brokers for last week’s stock rout, said Feb. 12
federal investigators questioned some of its officials.  “It’s a pretty bad set of numbers, disastrous,” said
Naveen Kulkarni, a Mumbai-based analyst at MF Global Securities
Pvt. “There’s a problem with execution with respect to what the
top management thinks and what people on the ground are able to
execute.”  Reliance jumped 4.4 percent to 101.55 rupees at the close
of trading in Mumbai today. The benchmark Sensitive Index, or
Sensex, gained 0.4 percent. Reliance has dropped 30 percent this
year and is the worst-performing stock in the benchmark.  Burgeoning Debt  Nineteen of the 44 analysts tracked by Bloomberg recommend
selling Reliance Communications, 14 recommend holding, and 11
recommend buying.  Debt at Reliance, the worst-performing stock among Asian
phone carriers this year, exceeded cash and equivalents by 324
billion rupees in the third quarter, which ended Dec. 31,
compared with 189 billion rupees a year earlier, the company
said in a statement yesterday.  Average revenue per user, a key measure of performance in
the mobile-phone industry, fell 26 percent to 111 rupees a month
and customers spent less time on the phone, Reliance said. The
company added 8.3 million customers in the quarter in a country
where a price war among  India ’s 14 mobile phone operators drove
down rates to as little as half-a-penny a minute.  EBITDA declined 8 percent from a year earlier to 16.68
billion rupees in the third quarter, according to the statement.
Net sales fell 5.9 percent to 48.2 billion rupees, missing the
52.7 billion rupees average of 31 analyst estimates.  Investor Confidence  “Investor confidence is already damaged,” said K.K.
Mital, a fund manager at Globe Capital Market Ltd. in Mumbai.
“Forward-looking statements with a positive bent of mind are
not coming -- and that’s really what’s needed from Reliance
Communications. They must repair the damage.”  The tax gain in the third quarter totaled 213.7 million
rupees compared with a loss of 2 billion rupees a year earlier,
according to the statement. Reliance Communications had “other
income” of 1.39 billion rupees in the quarter compared with 262
million rupees a year earlier, according to the statement.  Reliance ADA Group, whose market value plunged $2.6 billion
on Feb. 9, said last week federal investigators examined its
officials as part a probe into a government sale of telecom
airwaves.  “The problem with this company is that the operating
trends over the last few quarters haven’t been so good,” said
Yogesh Kirve, an analyst at Anand Rathi Financial Services Ltd.
in Mumbai. “They’re not getting good traffic growth, unlike
some of its peers. On top of that, the company is highly
leveraged.”  Price War  Multiple SIM card ownership is common in India, where
overseas carriers such as NTT DoCoMo Inc. and  Telenor ASA 
sparked a price war in 2009 that has brought call rates as low
as half a U.S. penny a minute.  Reliance is removing “free minutes” from its offerings to
free up capacity for higher data use, said Syed Safawi,
president of the company’s wireless business.  Reliance Communications said Feb. 13 that it hadn’t
violated any phone-permit rules because it held less than 10
percent stake in Swan Telecom Ltd., which bid for a separate
mobile-phone license. India’s state auditor had said last year
Swan was ineligible for a mobile-phone license.  Last week, the Anil Ambani group said that Indian federal
investigators examined some of its officials.  ‘Baseless Rumors’  The  Central Bureau of Investigation  “is reportedly
examining a large number of telecom companies and their
officials over the past several weeks, in relation to various
matters relating to the years 2001 to 2008,” Reliance ADA Group
said in an e-mailed statement, without elaborating. “As part of
this process, CBI has also examined a few officials of Reliance
ADA Group.”  Ambani’s companies lost a combined $2.6 billion in market
value on Feb. 9 after the group said “vicious and illegal”
rumors sparked a sell off. Ambani blamed rumors spread by rivals
and  stock brokers  for a plunge in shares of his group’s
telecoms, power and infrastructure companies.  “A series of completely baseless and motivated rumors have
been spread by our unscrupulous corporate rivals,” Reliance
ADAG group said. “This has been accompanied by vicious and
illegal bear hammering of our listed stocks, to create panic and
destabilize the markets.”  The group also said it has identified brokers who spread
“sensational charges” in e-mails,  text messages  and phone
calls disseminating “baseless” accusations about its firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  