-- 
Obama Budget Plan Sets Stage for Fight With Republicans Over Depth of Cuts

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-02-15T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/republicans-dismiss-obama-budget-as-sending-u-s-down-path-to-bankruptcy-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s $3.7
trillion budget request was met with demands for a bolder
reshaping of the government by Republicans, who said they want
deeper cuts than the Democratic administration put forth.  Obama’s budget for the 2012 fiscal year, his first since
Republicans took control of the U.S. House, aims to reduce
deficits by more than $1 trillion in the coming years. The plan
includes cuts to energy, transportation, housing and other
programs popular with his fellow Democrats.  It also would allow income and capital gains taxes to rise
after 2012 for individuals earning more than $200,000 annually
and married couples making more than $250,000.  The document doesn’t offer ideas to overhaul Medicare,
Medicaid or Social Security, the entitlement programs that
represent about 40 percent of the federal budget and are primary
drivers of long-term deficits. That sparked criticism from
Republicans.  “This budget was an opportunity for the president to
lead,” said Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican. “He punted.” McConnell previously has said the
initial push to overhaul entitlement spending must come from the
president.  ‘Destroy Jobs’  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said
Obama’s plan “will destroy jobs by spending too much, taxing
too much and borrowing too much.”  House Republicans said they will propose broader program
cuts in an alternative budget blueprint that they release. They
wouldn’t say whether they will put entitlements on the block in
that plan.  White House budget director Jacob Lew defended the spending
blueprint against criticism over its failure to recommend major
steps to reduce the cost of entitlements.  “I know that would make a lot of people happy for there to
be a big, bold proposal,” Lew said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “My experience over the last 30 years is that when
you put a proposal out there, before you’ve laid the foundation
for a bipartisan discussion, it actually doesn’t move the
process forward.”  Senator Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican and director of the
White House’s Office of Management and Budget under former
President  George W. Bush , said Obama’s plan was a “political
document” that ignored a $3.8 trillion debt-reduction proposal
presented to a presidential commission late last year. The plan,
ultimately rejected by the commission, would have cut Social
Security benefits and Medicare.  ‘Family Conversation’  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
said his party will propose “very bold” changes to
entitlements in their 2012 budget resolution.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, said Republicans first “have to have a family
conversation to get consensus” on the issue, and that he
couldn’t specify what his party’s plan will look like.  The deficit for the current fiscal year is forecast to hit
a record $1.6 trillion -- 10.9 percent of gross domestic
product. Under Obama’s plan it would be $1.1 trillion in 2012, 7
percent of GDP. The budget forecasts the deficit will be $627
billion in 2017, or 3 percent of GDP, a level the administration
says is sustainable. The shortfall would grow in subsequent
years, reflecting the impact of  Baby Boomers  drawing Social
Security payments and Medicare benefits.  Obama Pledge  About two-thirds of the  deficit reduction  comes from cuts.
Obama previously pledged to freeze non-security discretionary
spending for the next five years, and under his budget about
half of all federal agencies would see their budgets reduced
from levels in 2010, the last time agencies operated under an
enacted budget, according to administration documents.  Spending on housing programs would go down by $1.1 billion.
Funding for the Environmental Protection Agency would be reduced
by 13 percent, to $8.97 billion. The budget cuts $1 billion from
airport grants and $950 million from water-treatment plants and
other infrastructure.  The plan calls for more resources to aid financial
regulatory efforts and tax enforcement.  Obama requested $6.5 billion, spread over eight agencies
that include the Securities and Exchange Commission and the new
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, to help pay for 5,000 new
employees to implement tougher regulation of the financial
industry brought on by the financial crisis. The SEC’s budget
would total $1.4 billion, up $304 million from fiscal 2010.  The  Internal Revenue Service  would get a 9.4 percent budget
increase, to $13.3 billion, to hire more than 5,000 new
employees, most of whom would pursue tax cheats.  War Spending  Obama is seeking $553 billion for the Defense Department,
up 4.3 percent from fiscal 2010. For the wars in Afghanistan and
Iraq, Obama is asking Congress to approve $126.5 billion, down
from this year’s $164.7 billion and the lowest since 2006,
reflecting the winding down of the war in  Iraq .  Democrats praised Obama for taking steps to stabilize the
economy and put the nation on a stronger fiscal path.  “The president’s budget makes the tough choices we need to
reduce spending and put our nation’s fiscal house in order,”
said House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat. He
said the budget also “identifies those investments we need to
grow our economy and create jobs -- investments in out-building,
out-innovating, and out-educating competitors around the
world.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
Obama’s plan was a “serious attempt” to address the deficit,
while Republicans are seeking to “slash the programs that keep
us safe and make us competitive.”  Democratic Criticism  Some Democrats criticized Obama for wanting to cut too
much.  Representative Ed Markey of  Massachusetts , the top Democrat
on the Natural Resources Committee, lambasted the proposal to
cut by half the funds for heating assistance for the poor and
for Community Service Block Grants that provide aid for low-
income people.  “These programs aren’t just lines in a budget -- they’re
lifelines for our most vulnerable, and they must be preserved,”
Markey said in a statement. “We must not balance the budget on
the backs of disadvantaged citizens in our communities.”  2011 Fight  Even as the battle lines over the 2012 budget were being
drawn, Congress and the administration continue to haggle over
spending for the 2011 fiscal year, which began Oct. 1.  The government has been operating under temporary spending
measures known as continuing resolutions; the latest one ends
March 4.  Last week, after House Republican leaders said they would
propose reducing the 2011 budget by about $35 billion over 2010
spending levels, their members forced them to come up with more
cuts for a $61 billion reduction. The revised plan outlined Feb.
11 would end more than 100 government programs and cut spending
on areas including the environment, health care, energy and
transportation.  Also looming is a fight later this year when Obama seeks to
increase the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit, needed to
prevent a default on government obligations. Republican leaders
have said they will demand deep spending cuts in exchange, and a
number of Tea Party-backed members want to go further than their
leaders may propose.  Some Democrats urged a long-term view.  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North
Dakota Democrat, said Obama’s budget “gets it about right in
the first year” by making a priority of infrastructure, energy
and other programs that could help spur  job creation . Still, he
said, “We need a comprehensive long-term debt reduction plan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ,
To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Meszoly at   rmeszoly@bloomberg.net  