-- 
Rising Milk Prices Are ‘New Normal,’ Fonterra Says

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   B r u c e   E i n h o r n
-- 
2011-02-14T08:34:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/rising-global-milk-prices-are-new-normal-fonterra-chief-ferrier-says.html
High milk prices are “the new
normal” and increased global commodity demand, led by emerging
markets, is set to boost them further, according to Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy exporter.  Whole-milk powder prices will likely remain at least 50
percent above their historical averages in the longer term,
Chief Executive Officer Andrew Ferrier said in an interview
today from Auckland.  Ferrier’s forecast adds to signs of quickening global food
inflation as rising incomes in emerging markets such as China
spur greater consumption of dairy and meat products. Food prices
climbed to a record last month, according a 55-item basket
tracked by the  United Nations . That’s squeezing the poorest,
World Bank President Robert Zoellick has warned.  “The price can probably move up from today’s price a way
before we start burning off demand,” said Ferrier. “Higher
prices are the new normal.” Fonterra accounts for about 40
percent of the global trade in butter, milk powder and cheese.  Whole-milk powder for April delivery gained 7.6 percent to
$3,974 per metric ton at Fonterra’s  Feb. 1 auction  to reach the
highest level since June 1. Volatility is expected to remain
after prices fell from their peak of about $5,000 a ton in 2007
and 2008, Ferrier said.  China, battling a drought that’s helped to lift global
wheat prices to the highest level in the more than two years,
surpassed Japan as the world’s second-largest economy last year.
The nation’s economy expanded 10.3 percent in 2010, the fastest
pace in three years, according to statistics bureau data.    China ’s Drought  Global food prices have surged on increased demand coupled
with harvest disruptions, including China’s drought as well as
heavier-than-usual rains across parts of  Asia  brought by a La
Nina weather event. The rising cost of food “puts stress on the
most vulnerable,” Zoellick said in an interview last week.  Wheat futures in  Chicago  traded at $9.15 a bushel today,
the highest level since August 2008 and 82 percent more than a
year ago. Corn futures have surged 93 percent in the past 12
months, while soybeans have gained 49 percent.  Palm oil  in  Malaysia  gained to the highest price since March 2008 last week.  The value of New Zealand’s commodity exports rose 3.8
percent to a record in January from December and prices gained
27 percent from a year earlier, ANZ National Bank Ltd. said Feb.
1 on stronger milk and beef demand. Last year, the value of  New
Zealand ’s dairy exports gained 29 percent to NZ$10.3 billion.  Dairy and Livestock  As developing nations’ incomes rise, diets are expected to
include more meat and processed foods, favoring dairy and
livestock, according to an annual outlook from the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development and the United Nations’  Food and Agriculture Organization  last June. World food prices
will rise this decade, according to the two groups’ report.  China’s whole-milk powder imports are likely to remain
strong this year, underpinning global prices, according to a
forecast from Dairy  Australia  today. Dairy production in China
was struggling to keep pace with demand growth and there was a
preference for imported products that are considered safer, said
Joanne Bills, strategy & knowledge manager at the industry group.  New Zealand in December declared medium-level droughts in
Northland and in Waikato province, the nation’s biggest milk-
producing region. Milk output fell 4.7 percent on the  North
Island  in December compared with a year earlier, and declined
1.8 percent on the  South Island , according to Fonterra.  New Zealand’s pasture-based dairy industry is benefiting
from the higher-than-average prices amid rising fuel, labor and
grain costs globally, Ferrier said. “New Zealand dairying would
be quite profitable for those who have owned land a long time or
been prudent,” he said.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Bruce Einhorn in  Hong Kong  at 
 beinhorn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  