-- 
Rubber Climbs to Record as China May Buy to Replenish Stockpiles

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-02-14T11:40:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/rubber-climbs-to-record-as-china-may-buy-to-replenish-stockpiles.html
Rubber advanced to a record amid
speculation that  China , the largest consumer, may step up buying
to rebuild stockpiles before the low-production period begins in
major growing areas in  Thailand . The Thai cash price also
climbed to an all-time high.  The July-delivery contract climbed as high as 522.50 yen a
kilogram ($6,267 a metric ton) in an after-hours trading on the
Tokyo Commodity Exchange. Trades in this session will be settled
tomorrow. The most-active contract has rallied 25 percent this
year, extending last year’s 50 percent advance, as rising car
sales led by China and  India  boosted demand for tires.  Natural-rubber inventories monitored by the Shanghai
Futures Exchange declined 615 tons to 58,058 tons, based on a
survey of 10 warehouses in  Shanghai , Shandong, Yunnan, Hainan
and Tianjin, the bourse said Feb. 11. The volume was 62 percent
below last year’s peak of 151,832 tons.  “China may have to increase rubber purchases to replenish
stockpiles while supply is available,” said  Kazuhiko Saito , an
analyst at broker Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo. “Shipments from
Thailand will dwindle in coming months as the low-production
period begins.”  Farmers reduce tapping during the so-called wintering
period from February to May, when trees shed leaves and latex
production drops. Thai output declines as much as 60 percent
compared with peak levels, according to the Association of
Natural Rubber Producing Countries.  Indonesia  and  Malaysia  will
enter the low-production period at about the same time.  Persistent Rain  The seasonal drop in production is set to occur after La
Nina brought higher-than-average rain to parts of  Southeast
Asia , curbing output in Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia. The
three countries account for about 70 percent of global supply.  “The price is on an upward trend as persistent rains in
Thailand’s southern provinces are likely to continue disrupting
latex tapping,” Sureerat Kunthongjun, an analyst at Agrow
Enterprise Ltd., said by telephone from Bangkok.  The physical price of rubber in Thailand, the world’s top
exporter, extended gains to an all-time high of 194.30 baht
($6.32) per kilogram today, according to the Rubber Research
Institute of Thailand.  Car-sales growth in China, the world’s biggest auto market,
will be about 10 percent to 15 percent this year, according to
the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers. Total auto
sales, which include cars, trucks and buses, jumped 32 percent
last year to 18.06 million, the group said.  China Consumption  Natural-rubber consumption in China may rise 9 percent to
3.6 million tons this year, while rubber use in India may gain
5.2 percent to 991,000 tons, according to the Association of
Natural Rubber Producing Countries.    Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd ., Japan’s second-largest
tire maker, raised its earnings estimate last week, citing
strong sales of snow tires in the domestic market and expanding
demand overseas.  Bridgestone Corp ., the largest manufacturer,
announced increases of 8 percent to 15 percent in product prices
for the Japanese market from June 1.  In Shanghai, May-delivery rubber gained as much as 1.6
percent to 42,350 yuan ($6,572) a metric ton, nearing a record
43,500 yuan reached on Feb. 9, and closed at 42,860 yuan.  To contact the reporters on this story: Aya Takada in Tokyo
at   atakada2@bloomberg.net ; Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  