-- 
Trump Entertainment Sells Atlantic City Casino to Landry's for $38 Million

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-02-14T16:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/trump-entertainment-agress-to-sell-atlantic-city-marina-casino-to-landry-s.html
Trump Entertainment Resorts Inc.,
the casino company taken over by bondholders through bankruptcy
last year, agreed to sell the Trump Marina Hotel Casino to
Golden Nugget owner Landry’s Inc. for $38 million.  The transaction is expected to be completed in the second
quarter and is subject to a working capital adjustment,  Atlantic
City , New Jersey-based Trump Entertainment said today in a
statement. Landry’s, a restaurant group taken private by its
management last year, operates Golden Nugget casinos in downtown
Las Vegas and Laughlin, Nevada.  Trump Entertainment has been attempting to sell the Marina
for years, including an unsuccessful series of renegotiated
deals with Coastal Marina LLC, controlled by Richard T. Fields,
who sought to turn it into a  Margaritaville  casino resort.  Marc Lasry , chief executive officer of New York-based  Avenue Capital
Group , Trump’s largest shareholder, told New Jersey regulators
in July he was seeking a buyer for the casino.  Press of Atlantic City  reported Landry’s efforts to buy
Trump Marina last week.  Landry’s plans to renovate the Marina this year and rebrand
it a Golden Nugget resort, CEO and owner Tilman Fertitta said
today in a separate statement.  Trump Entertainment’s three New Jersey shore casinos, the
Trump Taj Mahal Resort, Trump Plaza Hotel & Casino and Trump
Marina, have been through bankruptcy three times. Billionaire
Lasry, along with other bondholders and company founder  Donald J. Trump , won control of Trump Entertainment last year over a
competing offer by investor Carl Icahn.  Atlantic City gambling tumbled to $3.57 billion in 2010
from a peak of $5.2 billion in 2006 -- before Pennsylvania and
Yonkers,  New York , allowed  slot machines . Competition has
intensified with new casinos in Delaware, Maryland and  West
Virginia . Six of Atlantic City’s casinos went through bankruptcy
or restructured debt during the financial crisis, and
development has stalled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in Atlantic City at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  