-- 
Russian Growth May Increase to 6% Next Quarter as Oil Climbs, RenCap Says

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-02-14T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/russian-growth-may-increase-to-6-next-quarter-as-oil-climbs-rencap-says.html
Russia’s economy may expand next
quarter at the quickest pace since 2008 as companies boost
investment and higher oil prices help the government ramp up
spending before national elections,  Renaissance Capital  said.  Gross domestic product may grow an annual 6 percent in the
second quarter, the Moscow-based investment bank said today in a
report. That would be the fastest expansion since the third
quarter of 2008. Growth in the first three months of 2011 may be
4.3 percent, down from a previous forecast of 4.7 percent,
RenCap said.  Russia’s economy expanded 4 percent last year, beating
estimates from both economists and the government, after
shrinking 7.8 percent a year earlier. Rising energy exports and
increasing domestic sales by manufacturers including automaker
OAO AvtoVAZ prompted companies to boost investment, helping
counter a record heat wave that triggered crop losses and
crimped consumer spending.  “We believe that the  Finance Ministry  will boost spending
in a pre-election year and because the budget outlook for 2011
is not so gloomy,” RenCap economists led by Anton Nikitin wrote
in the report, which was co-authored by Moscow’s New Economic
School.  If oil prices average $90 a barrel, the ministry has a
“good chance” of ending the year with a deficit of less than 2
percent, according to the report. Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin
said on Feb. 2 that economic growth this year may exceed last
year’s 4 percent rate.  The economy will probably grow slower in the first three
months of 2011 than previously estimated as “dormant”
consumption threatens to stall the recovery, RenCap said.    Consumer spending  has dropped off as the inflation rate
quickened at the fastest pace in 15 months in January and
unemployment jumped in December to a seven-month high.  “Personal consumption is currently dormant,” the
economists wrote. “We believe that unless policy makers
stimulate consumption, the shrinking foreign trade sector
contribution will bring down headline economic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in  London  at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net . 