-- 
Russia Raises $3.3 Billion Selling 10% of VTB Group

-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 
2011-02-14T16:29:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/russia-sells-10-stake-in-vtb-bank-to-group-of-investors-for-3-25-billion.html
Russia raised $3.3 billion selling a
stake in VTB Group in the largest state asset sale since the
bank’s initial public offering almost four years ago.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government sold 10 percent
of the bank to a group of investors for 95.7 billion rubles, the
country’s second-biggest lender said in a statement today. The
per-share price of 9.1468 kopeks is 33 percent less than the
13.6 kopeks the bank got in May 2007, when it raised $8 billion
in that year’s biggest IPO.  The sale is the first major deal in a three-year program
aimed at raising about $34 billion to help plug a budget gap and
lessen the government’s role in the economy. Three non-state
companies, Nord Gold NV, OAO Koks and ChelPipe, all pulled their
London IPOs this month, citing market conditions.  “Several” sovereign wealth funds from northern Europe and
Asia bought stock in the offering, as did companies from “all
over the world, including the U.S., U.K.,  Europe  and  Asia ,”
Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said on state television today.  VTB Deputy Chairman  Herbert Moos  said in an interview after
the sale that Assicurazioni Generali SpA,  Italy ’s biggest
insurer, bought $300 million of shares to become a “strategic
partner” of the bank. U.S. buyout firm TPG capital bought $100
million of shares, Moos said.  ‘Long-Only Investors’  Russian non-state companies and funds bought about 15
percent of the offering, which was dominated by “long-only
investors,” Moos said by phone. No state-owned Russian
institutions participated, he said.  Moscow-based VTB gained as much 3.3 percent, valuing the
company at 1.02 trillion rubles, and was up 0.3 percent at 9.5
kopeks by the close of trading in Moscow. The state bought 180
billion rubles of new VTB bank at 4.82 kopeks a piece in
September 2009 to support the lender after the biggest market
rout in a decade. VTB reached a record low 1.94 kopeks in March
2009.  “This move to attract investors clearly demonstrates
confidence in our financial system as well as in our economic
policies,” Putin told VTB Chief Financial Officer  Andrei Kostin 
at a meeting near Moscow.  Transactions involving global depositary receipts, priced
at $6.25 each, are scheduled to be completed Feb. 17, while
those for ordinary shares are due Feb. 21, according to the
government’s statement. Deutsche Bank AG, Merrill Lynch and VTB
Capital managed the sale.  The government this year plans to sell as much as 7.6
percent of OAO Sberbank, VTB’s bigger rival. Other major sales
that may take place this year include stakes in shipper OAO
Sovcomflot, grain trader United Grain Co. and utilities OAO
RusHydro and Federal Grid Co., according to the  Economy
Ministry ’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  