-- 
RWE Holds ‘Small Quantity of Suspect’ Carbon Permits

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-02-14T17:01:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/rwe-investigating-small-quantity-of-suspect-european-carbon-permits.html
  RWE AG ,  Europe ’s biggest emitter, is
investigating what to do with a “small quantity of suspect”
carbon permits it received before learning of thefts in a series
of hacking attacks.  The utility, the second-biggest in  Germany , hasn’t resold
the questionable permits, which it bought to comply with EU cap-
and-trade compliance, Mats Ahl, head of carbon trading at RWE
Supply & Trading GmbH, said today in an e-mailed response to
questions. The Essen, Germany-based company has ceased trading
of spot permits while it assesses whether it can use the
unspecified number of allowances to count against its emissions.  The European Commission, the EU regulator, has permitted
six out of 30 registries in the world’s largest emissions market
to reopen after a two-week halt started on Jan. 19. Spot trading
is limited after hackers illegally transferred about 29 million
euros ($39 million) worth of permits from  Austria , the Czech
Republic and  Greece , while Italy and  Romania  are still hunting
for permits reported stolen last year.  No spot trades were concluded today on ICE Futures Europe
or Bluenext SA, the biggest carbon exchanges, according to data
on Bloomberg. EU carbon futures for December were unchanged at
14.89 euros on ICE Futures Europe exchange in London at 5 p.m.  The structure of the EU  emissions trading  program makes it
impossible for companies to protect themselves against handling
stolen certificates, as a single link in a chain of transactions
may be illegal, Ahl said.  “A centralized European registry with stricter
requirements on who and how a new account is set up would help
avoid such issues,” Ahl said.    E.ON AG , Germany’s largest utility, found no evidence that
it handled stolen permits and resumed spot emissions trading on
Feb. 4, Christopher Delbrueck, chief financial officer at its
trading unit, said in a Feb. 8 interview in Essen, Germany.  “The commission should really make sure that all the
national registries fulfill their duties in terms of security
measures to re-establish the confidence,” he said.  A central registry needs to be established if that doesn’t
work, said Delbrueck. E.ON still trusts the system aimed at
reducing emissions, he said.  Avoiding Spot Trade  Emission permits in the EU trading system, the cornerstone
of its plan to reduce  greenhouse gases  linked to  climate change ,
are currently held in national registries. The 12,000 factories
and power stations participating in the program have to buy
additional allowances when their emissions exceed their
allocation. Those with surplus permits can sell them in a market
valued at $110 billion last year. The commission plans a central
registry when the third phase of the emissions trading program
starts in 2013.  European spot trading accounts for 10 to 15 percent of the
region’s carbon market, according to commission estimates.
Activity will remain limited “for quite some time,” because of
differences in legal rights and obligations between countries,
Ahl said.  “We are still monitoring the situation in the market and
will only start trading spot when we feel confident that we
understand our legal rights and obligations,” Ahl said.    Barclays Plc , based in London, said last month it has
stopped most spot carbon trading after Holcim Ltd., a Swiss
cement maker, lost 1.6 million permits to CO2 permit thieves.  Damaged Market  The EU designed its emissions system in 2005 to be a model
for a global carbon market. It includes the EU’s 27 member
states as well as Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.  Even though the EU market has been damaged, the commission
has the opportunity to improve the system and guide member
states on how to classify the legal and accounting status of
permits that may be stolen, Ahl said.  “There is no better way than emissions trading to give the
right signals and incentives to reduce emissions,” he said.
“It would be great if a coordinated and centralized effort was
made to publish the serial numbers of any stolen certificates in
a timely manner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in  London  at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  