-- 
S. Africa Stocks Close at Near 3-Year High After Hitting Record

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-02-14T15:58:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/s-africa-stocks-close-at-near-3-year-high-after-hitting-record.html
South African stocks closed at the
highest since May 2008 after touching an intraday record as
metals climbed on a surprise increase in  China ’s copper imports.  The FTSE/JSE  Africa  All Share Index rallied as much as 1.2
percent to 33,334.55 and closed 0.4 percent higher at 33,094.06
as of 5 p.m. in Johannesburg.  BHP Billiton Plc , the world’s
largest mining company, gained 1.7 percent to 297.01 rand, while  Anglo American Plc  advanced 0.7 percent to 395.70 rand.  “Psychologically this is a great move because it means
there’s a bit of money being put in the market,” said Patrick Mathidi, a portfolio manager with MMI Asset Management. “In
terms of valuations, I wouldn’t rush in to the market at this
stage. It becomes very dangerous to follow the market at these
levels, especially when you still don’t have conclusive answers
on the debt situation in  Europe ,” said Mathidi by telephone
from Johannesburg.  China’s copper imports rebounded 5.7 percent in January
from the previous month as fabricators increased stockpiles
ahead of a seasonal ramp up in production after the Lunar New
Year. Copper climbed 1.8 percent on the London Metal Exchange.
Lead, nickel, tin and zinc also gained.  MMI’s Mathidi, who helps manage almost 200 billion rand
($27 billion) in funds, advises investors to buy diversified
resources companies, including  Anglo American Plc  and BHP
Billiton Plc. Retail and most banking stocks are the best
candidates for selling, with the exception of Standard Bank
Group Ltd., Africa’s largest lender, which he recommends buying
at its current price of 12.60 times earnings.  ‘Stretched’  “In terms of valuations, we’re concerned the market’s a
little stretched,”  Kevin Lings , an economist at  Stanlib Asset
Management  in Johannesburg, said by telephone.  For the All-Shares Index to keep trading at average of 16.3
times annual earnings, the domestic economy must create jobs at
a faster pace, Lings said. Manufacturing growth eased to 0.2
percent in December, the slowest pace in 13 months, the
government said Feb. 10.  Stanlib Asset Management tends to hold shares of large
diversified resources companies and is avoiding gold stocks,
Lings said.  The rand will likely weaken to 7.70 to the dollar by the
end of the year, said Lings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  