-- 
Sabre, Expedia Warned by U.S. Against Display Bias

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-02-14T19:58:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/sabre-expedia-warned-by-u-s-against-bias-in-flight-displays.html
Sabre Holdings Corp.,  Expedia Inc .
and four online travel companies were warned by U.S. regulators
against showing bias in displays of fare and flight information
amid Sabre’s data dispute with  American Airlines .  Such actions would violate laws against unfair and
deceptive trade practices, the Transportation Department wrote
on Feb. 1 to Sabre, data distributors Travelport Ltd. and  Amadeus IT Holding SA ; and online travel agents Expedia,  Orbitz
Worldwide Inc . and Travelocity.com.  The letter opened a new front in the dispute over
American’s use of its own technology to send information to
travel agents instead of relying on distributors such as Sabre.
Southlake, Texas-based Sabre briefly changed its displays in
January to list American flights after other carriers’.  Biased fare data could steer consumers to “relatively
inferior flights,” wrote Samuel Podberesky, the Transportation
Department’s assistant general counsel for aviation enforcement.
The agency will keep monitoring the displays and “will, if
warranted, take enforcement action,” he wrote.  Podberesky’s letter didn’t cite Sabre or  Fort Worth , Texas-
based American by name. The department learned of possible bias
against “at least one airline” flowing from “various business
disputes in recent months,” he wrote.  American declined to comment today. American parent  AMR
Corp . spent more than $300 million in 2010 on fees to so-called
global distribution systems such as Sabre, Travelport and
Amadeus to market flights. The data companies share those
payments with online travel agencies.  Sabre’s View  “We welcome the U.S. Department of Transportation’s
guidance on the important topic of air travel pricing
transparency,” Nancy St. Pierre, a Sabre spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail. “We are in full compliance with all boundaries set
forth by DOT in its recent letter.”  Jill Brenner, a spokeswoman for  Blackstone Group LP ’s
Travelport in  New York ; Kate Sutherland, an outside spokeswoman
for Travelocity.com, a Sabre unit; and Debbie Iannaci, a
spokeswoman for Miami-based Amadeus  North America , didn’t have
an immediate comment. Expedia didn’t immediately return calls
today.  Orbitz, under its contracts with airlines, has never shown
bias in its displays of fare and flight information, said Brian Hoyt, a spokesman for the Chicago-based online travel agency.
“That’s one of the big value propositions of our website.”  The Transportation Department isn’t commenting beyond the
letter, said  Bill Mosley , a spokesman. A copy also was sent to
the  Interactive Travel Services Association , a Washington-based
trade group for online travel companies.  Court Dispute  Sabre said Jan. 5 it would change its presentation of
American’s flight data until the end of their contract in
August. American won a court order blocking that move, and the
companies agreed on Jan. 24 to suspend action in their legal
battle until June 1 as they try to negotiate a settlement.  American has said its Direct Connect system will provide
pricing options directly to larger online agencies. The airline,
No. 3 in the U.S. by traffic, seeks to boost revenue by using
the system to sell optional services such as early boarding.  Expedia, which is based in Bellevue,  Washington , removed
American fares from its  website  on Jan. 1, saying Direct Connect
may raise costs and make it harder for passengers to compare
prices.  In December, American pulled its data from Orbitz, a month
after saying it would stop providing information unless the two
companies reached a new contract.  The Transportation Department said that online travel
agencies and data distributors “have generally led the public
to believe that they are transparent sources of the information
they have and that the information they do provide is fairly
presented.”  Any company biasing its presentations must “clearly and
conspicuously disclose that fact,” Podberesky wrote. A general
notice sent by distributors to travel agents by e-mail or letter
isn’t sufficient, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  