-- 
Samsung, Sony Ericsson Begin Barcelona Beauty Contest

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-02-14T14:51:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/samsung-sony-ericsson-begin-barcelona-mobile-beauty-contest.html
Samsung Electronics Co. and Sony
Ericsson Mobile Communications kicked off a parade of product
unveilings at Barcelona’s Mobile World Congress with new
smartphones and tablets on  Google Inc .’s Android software.  The South Korean company rolled out an update of its Galaxy
S smartphone and a larger version of its Galaxy Tab tablet
computer, both devices aimed at challenging similar formats from  Apple Inc . Sony Ericsson Chief Executive Officer Bert Nordberg
said the Swedish-Japanese joint venture will begin shipping its
first Android handset with PlayStation gaming capabilities.  Samsung, Sony Ericsson, and rivals like HTC Corp. are
jostling for leadership in the surging market for smartphones,
tablets and their associated applications. Apple’s iPhone and
devices running Android together accounted for about 53 percent
of smartphone sales worldwide last year, according to Gartner
Inc., crowding out competing offerings from companies including  Nokia Oyj  and BlackBerry-maker Research In Motion Ltd.  “It is very clear at this point that Android is dominating
the market and everyone is trying to offer a slightly different
experience and to differentiate themselves,” said Francisco Jeronimo, an analyst at IDC in  London . “At the high end, a lot
of devices offer similar features at this point.”  Music Downloads  Samsung and Sony Ericsson’s rollouts, which came the day
before the official start of the Barcelona industry conference,
also reflect device-makers’ ambition to add new mobile services,
matching the success of Apple’s iTunes music and entertainment
portal. Samsung said it will introduce a series of “integrated
mobile applications” for downloading music, books, and games,
while Sony Ericsson is attempting to capitalize on the
popularity of parent  Sony Corp .’s PlayStation gaming console.  While Cupertino, California-based Apple isn’t attending the
Barcelona event, the success of its iPhone and iPad devices is
dictating rival manufacturers’ agendas. The 10-inch tablet
unveiled by Samsung today, the Galaxy Tab 10.1, will compete
more directly with Apple’s similarly sized iPad than the 7-inch
existing Galaxy Tab.    LG Electronics Inc . and  ZTE Corp . today revealed new
designs for touch-screen smartphones and tablets, with
individual twists. The Korean company, which is looking to turn
around a money-losing mobile division, will sell a phone that
allows users to view and record 3-D images, along with a tablet
based on its Optimus smartphone design.  ‘Backup Choice’  ZTE, better known as a supplier of network hardware, is
planning Android tablets and phones targeted at mid-level
consumers, spreading a product category currently dominated by
devices costing as much as $600. While the company is focused
for now on Google’s Android, Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone 7
operating system could be a “backup choice” for future
devices, executive vice president He Shiyou said at a press
conference.  To drum up buzz at its Galaxy event, held atop Barcelona’s
Montjuic mountain, Samsung hired an orchestra from London’s  Royal Academy  of Music, and put executives on stage from
technology companies including  Cisco Systems Inc . and SAP AG’s
Sybase unit to showcase its devices.  Tablets running Android software boosted their share of the
global market almost 10-fold in the fourth quarter, researcher  Strategy Analytics  said on Jan. 31. Android’s attractiveness of
mobile application developers is pushing even the creators of
rival operating systems to ensure compatibility.  Research In Motion, whose co-founder Jim Balsillie is
slated to speak in Barcelona on Feb. 16, is working on software
to allow its pending Playbook tablet to run Android
applications, giving buyers access to some 130,000 current apps,
three people familiar with the situation said on Feb. 10.
Apple’s iTunes App Store offers about 300,000 apps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in  Barcelona  via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Barcelona at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  