-- 
Serbia Will Discuss Future Cooperation With IMF, PM Office Says

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-02-14T15:54:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/serbia-will-discuss-future-cooperation-with-imf-pm-office-says.html
Serbia will discuss with the
International Monetary Fund possibilities for future
cooperation, the office of Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  said
in an e-mailed statement today.  The statement followed the first meeting of Cvetkovic and
Finance Minister  Diana Dragutinovic  with the IMF, at the start
of the final round of policy review talks, held amid growing
social tensions and pressures on the government to free public
wages, likely to further fuel already double-digit inflation.  “The prime minister said talks with public-sector trade
union representatives were underway and the capacity to improve
the material status of the employed must be in line with
possibilities and the agreed budget and overall economic
policy,” the statement said.  Serbia has a 3-billion-euro ($4 billion) bailout loan
program with the IMF, which runs through April. The deal obliges  Serbia  to keep its fiscal gap within 4.1 percent of gross
domestic product in 2011, while the central bank needs to cut
inflation, at an annual 10.3 percent in December, to 4.5 percent
plus or minus 1.5 percentage points by the end of the year.  Teachers, health workers and police have all asked for wage
increases, ranging between 20 and 40 percent. The government
will meet trade unions later in the day as it tries to end two
weeks of teachers’ protests. A strike continues in 778 of 1,804
state-funded schools in the country.  Serbia needs a law to define public sector wages, Labor
Minister Rasim Ljajic said in a statement after meeting the IMF.  “We will insist on two wage increases this year” and
inflation adjustments in order to make up for effective wage
decline caused by inflation, said Miodrag Skrobonja of Serbia’s
 Alliance of Unions of Education Workers .  He said the unions will be undeterred by the restrictions
that come from the country’s arrangement with the IMF, Skrobonja
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  