-- 
Silicon Valley Employment Posts Gains in 2010, Remains Down at 2004 Levels

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-02-15T00:35:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/silicon-valley-employment-makes-slow-progress-gets-back-to-2004-levels.html
Silicon Valley employers rebounded
from the recession by adding 12,300 positions last year, though
the total number of jobs is only back to 2004 levels, according
to an annual economic  report  on the region.  The study,  released  today by Joint Venture: Silicon Valley
Network and Silicon Valley Community Foundation, also found per-
capita income stabilized last year, at $62,400 -- the same level
as in 2005. Meanwhile, the region is still reeling from cutbacks
in government jobs and programs, according to the report.  “The good news is the private sector is doing its thing --
don’t ask me how they’re doing it, they’re defying gravity,”
Russell Hancock,  chief executive officer  of Joint Venture, a
nonprofit group in  San Jose ,  California , said in an interview.
“The problem is the public sector is slammed.”    Google Inc ., Facebook Inc. and a new crop of social-
networking startups are stepping up hiring, helping offset
government cuts and the shift of computer-hardware jobs to
lower-cost regions. Google is adding 6,000 jobs worldwide this
year, and Facebook plans to boost its workforce by 50 percent
annually. The social-networking giant will move its headquarters
to  Menlo Park  from nearby  Palo Alto  to accommodate the growth.  Dot-Com Days  The region is still making a slow crawl back to its heyday
in 1999 and 2000, when the dot-com boom filled up offices,
minted millionaires and pushed corporate valuations to record
highs. After the bubble burst in March 2000, the  Nasdaq
Composite Index  fell for three straight years, startups went out
of business and demand for computer equipment slumped.  Employment had begun to recover by 2008, when the global
recession kicked off a fresh wave of job cuts. The region lost
about 90,000 positions between the second quarter of 2008 and
the following year. The 2004 levels it’s seeing now are halfway
between the dot-com peak and the pre-recession numbers in 2008.    Apple Inc ., the world’s largest technology business by
market value, was one of the companies adding employees in 2010.
Cupertino, California-based Apple increased its global headcount
36 percent to 46,600 as of September. The company reported
having 2,800 full-time temporary workers and contractors at that
time, up from 2,500 the prior year.  The region, which includes  Santa Clara  and San Mateo
counties, also posted an increase in patent registrations,
venture-capital investments and initial public offerings. That’s
helped slow the number of business failures, the research found.
Clean energy, new media and information technology are all
fueling the expansion, Hancock said.  ‘Across the Board’  “There’s  job creation  across the board, and it’s driven by
technology,” he said.  Office vacancy rates bottomed out last year, though it was
mostly because of a decrease in new buildings, according to the
report. Commercial construction dropped 80 percent from 2009.  Despite Silicon Valley’s reputation for Internet
millionaires, participation in food-stamp programs rose 59
percent in the region between 2007 and 2010. That’s a bigger
jump than the state’s total increase of 56 percent.  Public-sector employment declined 3 percent last year. In
addition to cuts at the state and regional level,  U.S. Census 
jobs ended and federal stimulus funds ran out.  “The public sector is a big employer, it’s not just a few
people at city hall,” Hancock said. “Most people think the
Valley is all these tech guys, geeks and computer programmers
and coders, but that’s not the case -- that’s a minority of
employment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  