-- 
GIC Offers $1.5 Billion for Paulson-Owned Resorts Amid Rebound

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-02-15T03:00:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/singapore-offers-to-acquire-five-bankrupt-paulson-resorts-for-1-5-billion.html
Government of  Singapore  Investment
Corp., which has a stake in Hyatt Hotels Corp., offered to pay
$1.5 billion for a group of bankrupt resorts owned by investors
including the hedge fund Paulson & Co.  The Singapore sovereign wealth fund seeks to buy five
resorts, one of GIC’s lawyers, Michael Sage of Dechert LLP, said
in an interview after unveiling the offer at a bankruptcy court
hearing yesterday in  New York . The properties include Grand
Wailea Resort Hotel & Spa in Maui,  Hawaii , and the Doral Golf
Resort & Spa in Miami.  GIC, which manages more than $100 billion of Singapore’s
foreign reserves, may be betting on a rebound in  travel demand 
that is helping the U.S. lodging industry recover after the
recession sent occupancies to a 30-year low. Occupancy in the
top 25 U.S. markets climbed to 64 percent last year from 60
percent in 2009, according to Smith Travel Research Inc.  “Anyone who has done well historically have bought in the
down cycle in the U.S. -- as long as they can finance it,” said
Nigel Summers, Hong Kong-based director at Horwath Asia Pacific,
which tracks the hospitality industry. “Hotels can be one of
last things banks want to touch; if GIC can arrange that, this
would be an opportunity for them.”  The resorts filed for bankruptcy on Feb. 1 after Paulson
and other investors took ownership of them through a foreclosure,
according to a court filing. Doral, which opened in 1962, hosted  Florida ’s first PGA event and guests included  Tiger Woods ,  Joe
DiMaggio  and Greg Norman, it said on its  website . The Grand
Wailea, was on the Conde Nast Traveler’s Gold List last year,
according to the  resort .  Higher Worth  Edward Sassower, a lawyer for the resorts, declined to
comment after the hearing about the offer from GIC. The fund, a
creditor in the bankruptcy case that owns junior debt, also
declined further comment in an e-mailed statement.  A person familiar with the business said Paulson believes
the assets are worth more than GIC’s offer. Paulson has also
received other expressions of interest in the properties,
including offers, said the person, who didn’t want to be
identified because the deliberations are private.  The Singapore fund and Paulson have each offered bankruptcy
loans for the company, which will seek approval for the
financing by the end of the month, the person said.  GIC, ranked the world’s seventh-largest state investment
company by  Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute , has invested in the
Westin Tokyo hotel, Hyatt Hotels and a venture with Host Hotels
& Resorts Inc., the owner of properties managed by Marriott
International Inc., Hilton Worldwide Inc. and Starwood Hotels &
Resorts Worldwide Inc.  Citigroup, UBS  GIC bought stakes in New York-based Citigroup Inc. and UBS
AG,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, three years ago as the collapse
in the U.S. subprime-mortgage market in 2007 froze credit
markets and led to almost $2 trillion in losses and writedowns
at financial institutions.  Blackstone Group LP agreed earlier this month to buy a
majority stake in Strategic Hotels & Resorts Inc.’s Hotel del
Coronado to help restructure the debt on the Southern California
resort that was the backdrop of the film “Some Like it Hot.”  The U.S. will remain GIC’s biggest area for investments for
years, even as emerging markets grow faster, Tony Tan, deputy
chairman of the fund, said in January. GIC’s holdings in the U.S.
fell to 36 percent of its portfolio in the year ended March 31
from 38 percent the previous year, according to its September
annual report.  ‘Need More Time’  At yesterday’s court hearing, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane approved an order allowing the properties to use the cash
collateral of lenders until Feb. 28. Without access to the cash,
the resorts won’t be able to operate and the “entire
restructuring may be jeopardized,” lawyers said in court papers.  Sassower told Lane that negotiations continue with lenders
for a “comprehensive” cash collateral agreement.  “The parties have made a lot of progress but still need
more time,” Sassower said.  The case is In re. MSR Resort Golf Course LLC, 11-10372,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Netty Idayu Ismail in Singapore at 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  