-- 
Siva-Jothy Said to Shut SemperMacro Fund After Poor Performance

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-02-14T14:38:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/siva-jothy-said-to-shut-sempermacro-fund-after-poor-performance-since-2008.html
Christian Siva-Jothy,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc .’s former co-head of proprietary  currency trading , is
shutting down his hedge fund after delivering “poor
performance” since 2008, according to a letter sent to clients.  Siva-Jothy, who plans to return money to investors,
liquidated all of London-based  SemperMacro Fund’s  positions this
month except one option trade, according to the letter, which
was reviewed by Bloomberg News. The fund is down 2.3 percent for
the year after losing 8.7 percent in 2010 and 27 percent in
2009, according to the letter.  “In this business you are only as good as your last few
trades,” Siva-Jothy wrote. “Mine have not been very good.
Whether I have lost my edge or simply need a break after 23
years I am not sure, but I certainly hope it is the latter.”  Siva-Jothy, who started SemperMacro after leaving Goldman
Sachs in 2004, said in the letter that he misjudged financial
data and the impact that moves by the U.S. Federal Reserve to
spur the economy would have on global markets. The fund, which
bets on currencies and equity markets, managed almost $200
million when Siva-Jothy decided to close the fund, said Stefan
Pollmann, a partner at the firm.  Siva-Jothy didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking
comment.  His track record making profitable trades for  New York- 
based Goldman Sachs enabled him to raise as much as $1.5 billion
at SemperMacro, before a 16 percent loss in 2006 led to client
withdrawals.  ‘Poor Performance’  Macro funds rose an average of 1.6 percent in January after
gaining 2.2 percent last year and 13 percent in 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “After considerable deliberation over the last few months,
combined with poor performance, I feel I have little choice but
to return assets to you,” Siva-Jothy wrote to clients.  The Fed cut its benchmark interest rate to near zero in
December 2008 and bought $1.7 trillion of mortgage debt and
Treasuries through last March as it sought to pull the U.S. out
of the worst recession since the 1930s. On Nov. 3, the  Federal
Open Market Committee  decided to buy $600 billion of Treasuries
through June, the second round of a policy measure known as
quantitative easing.  The Fed’s initial moves followed a credit crisis that
triggered the demise of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
prompted the U.S. bailout of insurer American International
Group Inc. SemperMacro gained 51 percent in 2008, according to
the client letter, when hedge funds on average posted their
worst year on record.  ‘Another Crisis’  “I continue to believe another crisis lies ahead, most
likely of greater magnitude than we have seen,” Siva-Jothy
wrote in the letter.  SemperMacro until 2007 was affiliated with Fulcrum Asset
Management LLP, a U.K. hedge fund founded by former Goldman
Sachs Chief Economist Gavyn Davies.  Goldman Sachs is disbanding its proprietary trading group
after Congress approved legislation last year that restricts
banks from risking their own capital on speculative bets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  