-- 
Small Business Administration Faces 45% Funding Decrease in U.S. Proposal

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-02-14T20:42:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/small-business-administration-faces-45-decrease-in-obama-budget.html
The U.S. Small Business
Administration faces a 45 percent drop in funding under
President  Barack Obama ’s budget request after receiving extra
funding in economic stimulus legislation.  The agency, which supports companies through loan programs
and disaster assistance, would get $985 million in the fiscal
2012 plan Obama proposed today, a cut from the spending levels
of 2010 supplemented by $962 billion in stimulus funding.  While the budget would back $27 billion in loan guarantees
for small business, administrative spending and funds for Small
Business Development Centers would be cut.  “It’s critical as we go forward with our budget that we
continue to support small business,” Karen G. Mills, head of
the agency, said today on a conference call with reporters. “We
have to tighten our belts and make tough choices.”  The budget designates $1.1 billion in direct loans for
disaster assistance, compared with an average of $837 million a
year from fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2010. The SBA makes loans to
businesses in federal disaster areas and provides assistance to
eligible homeowners and renters.  The SBA spending for salaries and expenses would drop to
$427 million from $434 million in fiscal 2010.  The agency provides government backing on loans made by
commercial lenders. The SBA’s largest program guarantees as much
as 85 percent of a loan, which would be paid off in a default.  ‘Must Be Done’  House Small Business Committee Chairman Sam Graves, a
Missouri Republican, called for more oversight of the agency,
which bolstered its $824 million in enacted spending for 2010
with stimulus funding.  “While I am pleased that the president’s budget proposal
would finally rid the SBA budget of ill-conceived stimulus
spending, more must be done to streamline SBA programs and
funding,” Graves said in a statement.  The agency’s guaranteed loan programs posted a $3.7 billion
increase in losses and subsidy costs on outstanding loans,
excluding interest, in 2011, according to the budget. To shore
up the program, the administration will submit legislation “to
provide the SBA the flexibility to adjust fees in these programs
to enable them to be self-sustaining.”  The SBA, founded in 1953, offers management assistance,
help in winning federal contracts and services that target
women, minorities and veterans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  