-- 
SocGen Narrows Earnings Gap With BNP Paribas as Russia Revives

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-02-14T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/societe-generale-narrows-earnings-gap-with-bnp-paribas-as-russia-revives.html
  Societe Generale  SA, the French bank
that had a record trading loss in 2008, is regaining favor with
investors as a return to profit in Russia and fewer writedowns
help narrow the earnings gap with BNP Paribas SA.  “SocGen is back on the radar of our international
clients,” said  Pierre Flabbee , an analyst at brokerage Kepler
Capital Markets in Paris who has a “buy” rating on the stock.
“As they steer the ship in the right direction, potential is
building.”  Societe Generale shares trailed BNP Paribas’s every year
from the start of the credit crisis in 2007 through 2010 as the
Paris-based company had more writedowns tied to the subprime
collapse than its larger French rival and posted a 4.9 billion-
euro ($6.6 billion) loss from unauthorized trading by former
employee  Jerome Kerviel .  Investors are starting to return. The stock gained 36
percent in Paris trading since June 15, the day after Societe
Generale announced 2012 profit targets, outpacing an 18 percent
advance by BNP Paribas. Investors are betting Chief Executive
Officer Frederic Oudea’s plan to balance earnings from
corporate- and investment-banking with higher revenue from  consumer lending  in countries such as Russia will pay off.  “SocGen can keep outperforming if you’re betting that the
financial industry is back to a calmness not seen since 2008,”
said Jacques-Pascal Porta, a Paris-based  fund manager  who helps
oversee $400 million at Ofi Patrimoine and owns BNP Paribas
shares. “Management continues rebalancing toward branch
networks to make the bank less tied to equity derivatives and
therefore market volatility.”    Russia  Recovery  Societe Generale will probably say fourth-quarter profit
almost quadrupled to 854 million euros, according to the average
estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. It reports
earnings tomorrow before the market opens in Paris. BNP Paribas,
which publishes results the next day, may say profit rose to
1.71 billion euros from 1.37 billion euros, according to the
average estimate of eight analysts.  Societe Generale’s Russian business, which has been
unprofitable since at least the start of 2009, will probably
show a profit in the fourth quarter and may reach annual
earnings of about 165 million euros in 2012, Kepler’s Flabbee
estimated. Russia, the bank’s second-largest market by
employees, should become the largest contributor to
international retail earnings in 2015, Societe Generale said on
June 15.    BNP Paribas ’s market value, at 67.2 billion euros, is 88
percent larger than Societe Generale’s. In May 2007, before the
financial crisis took hold, the gap was as small as 12 percent.  Risky Assets  BNP Paribas, led by CEO Baudouin Prot, 59, and Chairman
Michel Pebereau, 69, widened its lead on Societe Generale during
the financial crisis as it snapped up Fortis’s assets in Belgium
and Luxembourg in 2009.  The Paris-based bank, which became the largest by deposits
in the euro region with the Fortis purchase, had combined net
income of 16.6 billion euros between 2007 and 2009, about 4 ½
times more than Societe Generale’s profit over the same period.  Societe Generale trimmed losses from risky assets including
asset-backed securities and debt backed by U.S. bond insurers
last year. The assets cost the company 461 million euros in
writedowns and provisions in the first nine months of last year
and the bank has said 2010’s full-year losses from those assets
would shrink to as little as 700 million euros.  Weighing Risk  Societe Generale has posted more than 11 billion euros of
writedowns and provisions tied to the credit crisis, while BNP
Paribas had 7.7 billion euros through March 2009 and hasn’t
announced further charges.  “You can always play BNP as a better pick in terms of
risk,” said Christoph Bossmann, a Dusseldorf-based analyst at
WestLB AG. “But if you look at the exposure to emerging
markets, then your favorite is SocGen.”  The rivalry between the two banks,  France ’s largest by
market value, intensified a decade ago when Pebereau, then head
of Banque Nationale de Paris SA, snatched investment bank
Paribas SA away from Societe Generale in a takeover battle and
made a hostile bid for the lender itself. Societe Generale, led
at the time by  Daniel Bouton , 60, evaded Pebereau’s grasp.  BNP Paribas and Societe Generale have different expansion
strategies for boosting their consumer-banking branches. Societe
Generale, which gained almost 3 million clients in Russia by
acquiring control of OAO Rosbank in 2008, is now aiming to add 4
million customers by 2012 by opening at least 500 branches in 41
countries stretching from  Senegal  to  Romania .  Emerging Markets  BNP Paribas relies more on western  Europe . France, Belgium,
Luxembourg and  Italy  represent most of the bank’s revenue and
the group also owns BancWest, a network of about 730 branches in
the U.S. Through the Fortis purchase, the company added clients
in economies such as Turkey and Poland.  Societe Generale is the most exposed to emerging markets
among French banks, according to Jean Pierre Lambert, a London-
based analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd. The company last
year probably made more than a quarter of its total revenue from
emerging countries, mostly in central and eastern Europe, where
economic growth is higher than in France, according to KBW
estimates. That compares with 15 percent at BNP Paribas and 9
percent at  Credit Agricole SA , France’s third-biggest lender.  To be sure, expanding in emerging markets carries risks.
French banks have the most at stake among international lenders
in North Africa. Political protests have spread from  Tunisia  to  Egypt , where a popular revolt ended the 30-year reign of
President  Hosni Mubarak .  Egypt Impact  French banks have a combined $52.3 billion of loans in
Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco and Tunisia, according to data
from the Bank for International Settlements. That’s 65 percent
of the total claims European banks have on borrowers from these
five countries. Societe Generale, BNP Paribas and  Credit
Agricole  all have units in Egypt.  For Societe Generale, the Egyptian business represents
about 3 percent of annual profit and the bank may have to set
aside 96 million euros for potential loan losses in the Arab
world’s most populous country in the 2010 results, KBW
estimated. The French lender has declined to comment on the
impact of events in Egypt.  Even so, the situation in Egypt “is not enough to create a
hole in their results,” said  Jon Peace , an analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  London  who has a “buy’ rating on Societe
Generale. “An important part of the acceleration in emerging-
markets’ profit is coming from Russia” and “we want them to
continue to invest there,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  