-- 
South African Threatened to Spread Foot-And-Mouth Disease in U.S. and U.K

-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 
2011-02-14T12:25:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/south-african-threatened-to-spread-foot-and-mouth-disease-in-u-s-and-u-k.html
Brian Patrick Roach, who faces
terrorism charges in  South Africa  over alleged threats to
release foot-and-mouth disease in the U.K. and U.S., said he was
demanding $4 million to pay white farmers who suffered losses in  Zimbabwe .  Roach, 64, who appeared briefly before Magistrate Renier
Boshoff in a Wynberg, Johannesburg court today, was charged with
“threatening acts of terrorism” and   money laundering ,”
 National Prosecuting Authority  spokesman Mthunzi Mhaga told
reporters outside the court.  A stooped, grey-haired man with an unkempt mustache, Roach
was arrested on Feb. 11 in a sting operation while picking up
containers he believed held the payment.  Roach, according to his charge sheet, started sending
letters and e-mails in July to the U.K.’s  Department of
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs  that threatened “to use a
foot and mouth disease contaminated product to infect a large
portion of the beef and swine livestock throughout the U.K.”  Investigation of the threats began “soon after they were
made,” Mhaga said. The South African Police Service
collaborated with the  London Metropolitan Police Counter
Terrorism Command  and the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation.  The police have evidence Roach never had the ability to
carry out his threats, Mhaga said. Roach is being held in
custody at the Bramley police station in Johannesburg until he
appears in court on Feb. 18 to apply for bail, which the state
will oppose, Mhaga said.  Kruggerands  Roach wanted the money to be paid in Krugerrands because
they were “untraceable,” according to the charge sheet. The gold
coins had to be placed in 20-kilogram (44-pound) packages and
“ideally disguised as something of no or low value,” and left in
a locked garage, with the keys to be placed in the toilet of a
designated restaurant, it said.  Roach also threatened the U.S. beef industry, according to
excerpts of a letter contained in the charge sheet.  “In the event of payment not being made, the farms in the  United Kingdom  would be devastated and a higher amount demanded
from the Government of the  United States of America ,” Roach
allegedly wrote in a letter contained in the charge sheet.  Roach justified his threats by claiming that the money was
to help farmers in neighboring Zimbabwe who allegedly suffered
losses as a result of the U.K.-brokered peace deal at Lancaster
House that ended Zimbabwe’s independence war and brought Robert Mugabe into office as the elected prime minister in 1980. He
referred to now President Mugabe as “the tyrant from hell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicky Smith in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 