-- 
SPAIN DAYBOOK: Figures on Banks’ January Borrowing From ECB

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-02-14T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/spain-daybook-figures-on-banks-january-borrowing-from-ecb.html
The Bank of  Spain  publishes data on
banks’ borrowings from the  European Central Bank  in January.  WHAT TO WATCH:
*Spanish Industry Minister Miguel Sebastian will participate at
the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona and meet reporters at
1:30 p.m. CET.
*Spain’s Development Minister Jose Blanco will be interviewed in
state-owned TVE at 9:40 a.m. CET.  ECONOMY:
*Spain’s Treasury may sell 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) of
bonds backed by revenue from consumer power bills as early as
Feb. 15, El Economista reported, citing people close to the
matter it didn’t identify.
*Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said a lack of “acceptance”
among euro-area leaders for his views on monetary policy caused
him to give up on becoming the next chief of the European
Central Bank, Der Spiegel reported.
*European stocks posted a second weekly gain as companies from
Swatch Group AG to Alcatel-Lucent SA reported better-than-
expected earnings and after Egypt’s president stepped down.  EQUITIES:
  Ferrovial SA  Chairman Rafael Del Pino said the disposal of
assets will be an “ongoing” process besides the 10 percent
stake in BAA Ltd. already for sale, El Mundo reported, citing an
interview.
*International Consolidated Airlines Group SA’s Iberia Lineas
Aereas de Espana SA may face a strike by pilots after failing to
reach an agreement on how to create its low-cost airline, El
Mundo reported, citing people close to the company it didn’t
identify.
*YPF SA, Argentina’s biggest company by market capitalization,
filed an appeal to a ruling by an Argentine judge that orders
parent company  Repsol YPF SA  to halt plans to sell 15 percent of
its Argentine unit. The appeal is in a statement on the website
of Argentina’s Securities Commission.
  Renta 4 SA  has no plans to engage in commercial banking after
agreeing to buy Banco Alicantino de Comercio SA from Banco
Espanol de Credito SA, El Pais reported, citing an interview
with Renta 4 Chairman Juan Carlos Ureta. The executive predicted
little financial effect from the acquisition on this year’s
results and stuck to a goal of reaching double-digit revenue
growth, the newspaper said.  MARKETS:
*The  IBEX 35 Index  advanced 0.1 percent to 10,803.6.
*The spread between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs
widened to 208.3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  