-- 
State Department Plans Cuts in Security Funding, Aid

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-02-14T22:43:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/state-department-s-47-billion-budget-would-cut-some-security-aid-funds.html
President  Barack Obama ’s 2012 budget
proposes to increase spending on the State Department and its
global programs by 1 percent, not including $8.7 billion for
operations such as the transition in Iraq as U.S. troops pull
out.  The $47 billion core budget would cut foreign assistance
and military financing to several countries, including  Russia ,
as Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  shuffles funds to areas
the administration considers more urgent. Security funding will
become more focused on countries such as Israel and Pakistan,
according to the plan.  “We certainly understand the tight budget environment,”
Clinton said after a meeting with House Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican, to press the need to maintain funding for the
State Department. “I’m hopeful we’ll be given the resources we
need in order to fulfill the mission,” the top U.S. diplomat
said.  For the first time, the Office of Management and Budget is
issuing a separate budget for the $8.7 billion the State
Department is spending on such operations as the war zones. The
budget for State Department “Overseas Contingency Operations”
covers Iraq,  Afghanistan  and Pakistan.  The proposed State Department budget is part of the $3.7
trillion budget Obama sent to Congress today that the
administration says would reduce deficits by $1.1 trillion over
a decade.  Republican Cuts  Republicans have already made clear they find the cuts
insufficient. A plan House Republicans released Feb. 11 would
cut the overall State Department budget 16 percent below fiscal
2010 levels, Clinton said.  If those cuts go through, “we would be forced to scale
back significantly our missions in Iraq and Afghanistan, where
we work side-by-side with the military,” Clinton said.  The State Department’s budget proposal would increase
guaranteed loan commitments to the U.S. Export-Import Bank by 21
percent, to support Obama’s goal of doubling U.S. exports in
five years. It would also boost spending on  food security  and
global health.  Security Aid  The State proposal would eliminate security assistance in
the Foreign Military Financing program for  Chile ,  Haiti , East
Timor, Malta and Tonga. The cut, aimed at moving spending away
from small programs, yielded about $5 million in savings,  said
a State Department official who wasn’t authorized to speak on
the record.  Nine countries were cut from the  International Military
Education and Training  program, including Equatorial Guinea,
Iceland,  Kuwait ,  Qatar ,  Saudi Arabia , Somalia, the  United Arab
Emirates , Russia and Madagascar. The funding was to help these
countries qualify for discounts for military training. They will
still be able to participate in U.S. military education programs
at full price, the official said. The cut saved about $1
million.  The budget also suggests $115 million in cuts to programs
in  Europe , Eurasia and Central Asia in order to focus the
funding on areas of greater need, the official said. Those
countries -- Albania, Poland, Montenegro, Serbia, Macedonia and
Cyprus -- are seen as making enough progress to no longer
warrant aid, the official said.    Pakistan  Training  Pakistan would be given $1.2 billion largely to support
counterinsurgency training for military posted along the border
with Afghanistan. And Afghanistan would receive $2.2 billion to
support the State Department’s diplomatic presence and to
provide assistance.  The budget maintains $1.5 billion in assistance to  Egypt ,
following the protests and President Hosni Mubarak’s resignation
from office after 30 years in power. The aid, $1.3 billion of
which is directed to the military, may be reviewed depending on
developments, administration officials have said.  The budget request comes as Republicans are pledging to cut
the fiscal 2011 government funding by $100 billion. Under an
earlier plan to cut the federal budget by $35 billion, funding
for the State Department and foreign aid programs would be cut
by 4 percent.  “Our intent is to make deep but manageable cuts in nearly
every area of the government, leaving no stone unturned and
allowing no agency or program to be held sacred,” House
Appropriations Committee Chairman Harold Rogers, a Kentucky
Republican, said in a Feb. 10 statement.  Development Assistance  The U.S. would continue support for multilateral
development banks, such as the  World Bank , that back U.S. goals
in key strategic countries such as Afghanistan and Pakistan. The
African Development and Inter-American Foundations would have
their funding cut by nearly 20 percent.  Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, the Florida Republican
who heads the  House Committee on Foreign Affairs , backs cuts to
the State Department budget and has charged that the agency has
mishandled aid funding to Egypt.  Some Republicans have proposed the elimination of foreign
aid.  Deputy Secretary of State James Steinberg told the House
committee on Feb. 10 that this would be a “tragedy,”
especially in Afghanistan and  Iraq , as the military prepares to
withdraw and State Department employees step in to aid the
country’s emergence from war.  ‘Multiplier Effect’  “Our military cannot protect our national interests
alone,” Steinberg said. “We’ve seen that in Iraq. We see it in
Afghanistan. It has to be a balanced effort, and our
contribution, the part that goes to the State Department in
assistance, is very small compared to defense, but it has a huge
multiplier effect.” As a result, he said, “it has a huge
positive impact on the wellbeing of the American people.”  Clinton has launched a reorganization of her agency meant
to elevate the importance of diplomacy and development alongside
defense, an initiative supported by Obama’s national security
advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   edemarco1@bloomberg.net  