-- 
State Bankruptcy Proposal Criticized by Both Parties at Hearing

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-02-14T22:15:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/state-bankruptcy-proposal-criticized-by-both-parties-at-hearing.html
Republicans and Democrats in the
U.S. House criticized a proposal to allow states to file for
bankruptcy to escape their debts, calling it an unnecessary
intrusion into local affairs that could roil the bond market.  Republican Representative Lamar Smith of  Texas , chairman of
the House Judiciary Committee, said in Washington today that
allowing bankruptcy filings could encourage profligate borrowing
and penalize even sound states with higher interest costs.
Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , a potential presidential
candidate in 2012, has advanced the idea.  “States currently have ways to put their fiscal houses in
order,” Smith said during a hearing of a subcommittee of the
Judiciary Committee. “Congress should not hinder restructuring
efforts at the state level by passing laws that make it more
expensive for states to access capital in the bond market during
a recession.”  Suggestions that states should be allowed to file for
bankruptcy, as cities can, have drawn criticism from federal
lawmakers in both parties, state officials and public-employee
unions, whose contracts might be jeopardized in a filing.
Municipal-bond analysts have also expressed concern that a
change may rattle the $2.86 trillion  debt market  by casting
doubt upon the safety of the securities.  ‘Useless’ Idea  Representative John Conyers, a Democrat from  Michigan , said
it is a “useless” idea. Democrat Hank Johnson, a Georgia
Democrat, also said it was an unnecessary step that’s motivated
by opposition to public-employee unions, a major source of
campaign contributions for Democrats.  “State bankruptcy may be a solution in search of a
problem,” Johnson said.  U.S. states are forecasting a collective $125 billion in
budget deficits for the next fiscal year, according to a study
by the Washington-based Center on Budget & Policy Priorities.
Investment losses suffered during the financial crisis left a
more-than  $1 trillion hole  in pension funds, according to the
Pew Center on the States in  Washington .  While Republicans are drawing a line against a financial
rescue, governors have said they aren’t seeking one and are
scaling back spending or raising taxes to cover their gaps.  States were left out of a Depression-era law that lets
municipalities reorganize their finances under Chapter 9 of the  bankruptcy code , a provision that has largely been used by small
sewer and utility districts. Since Vallejo,  California , a
115,000-person town, filed for bankruptcy in early 2008, no city
of that size has followed its lead.  Market Turmoil  The skepticism about allowing states to seek protection
from creditors was echoed by experts invited to speak before the
subcommittee.  “Legislating state bankruptcy would disrupt the current
municipal  bond market  and undermine investor confidence,” Matt Fabian, a managing director of Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors, said in remarks prepared for
delivery.  The hearing today was the second congressional forum in as
many weeks where experts advised representatives against letting
states file for bankruptcy. At a separate House hearing on Feb.
9, analysts from the New York-based Manhattan Institute for
Policy Research and the Center on Budget & Policy Priorities,
groups with differing political viewpoints, said it would do
more harm than good.  Representative Howard Coble, a Republican from  North
Carolina , also said the idea would cause more problems.  “I see all sorts of snakes coming out of that can,” he
said.  Signs of Hope  There some signs that states are beginning to emerge from
the worst effects of the recession. U.S. state tax collections
headed for their biggest jump in more than four years during the
last three months of 2010, the fourth-straight increase,
according to a study this month from the Nelson A.  Rockefeller
Institute  of Government in Albany,  New York .    James Spiotto , a bankruptcy attorney with Chapman and
Cutler LLP in  Chicago , told the subcommittee today that any move
to allow bankruptcy would be fraught with practical and legal
challenges, including potential conflicts with the state’s
sovereignty.  “While the creation of a vehicle for state bankruptcy may
initially appear as an attractive solution to a difficult
problem, upon careful consideration, its problems outweigh its
benefits,” Spiotto said in remarks prepared for delivery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 