-- 
Stocks Likely to Bleed If Congress Slashes Budget: John Dorfman

-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 
2011-02-14T00:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/stocks-likely-to-bleed-if-congress-cuts-budget-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html
Listening to both Republicans and
Democrats spout off these days, it sounds like austerity is the
new patriotism. Both parties vow to cut federal spending.
Republicans, urged on by their Tea Party wing, say  deficit
reduction  is their top priority.  If and when rhetoric begets actions, stocks that depend on
federal spending for a significant part of their revenue will be
scrutinized by investors.  Tea party co-founder Mark Meckler said last month that all
aspects of spending, even defense, “must be on the table.”
Many analysts have lowered their earnings estimates for military
contractors.  Health-care companies relying on revenue from Medicare are
also under the sword of Damocles.  In these and other industries, investors need to weigh how
much of the budget cutting news is already reflected in the
price of a particular stock. The higher the share price relative
to earnings, the more vulnerable it is. Some companies
threatened by budget cuts are already so cheap their shares may
be worth buying.  In my opinion, that’s the case with defense stocks.
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  sell for about nine times
earnings,  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  for
about 11 times earnings.  General Dynamics, for example, showed earnings growth of 10
percent or more in seven of the past eight years. Yet analysts
foresee only 5 percent growth in 2011.  World of Trouble  I believe lawmakers will decrease defense spending, but
given the conflicts simmering around the world, I expect mild
reductions. Consider some developments in the  Middle East  in the
past few months:  -- The people of Egypt rose up against Hosni Mubarak’s
regime.  -- Iran continued developing nuclear weapons, and boasted
that it has  “complete domination”  over the entrance to the
 Persian Gulf .  -- U.S. forces are struggling in Afghanistan, and the
people of that country seem to have no faith in the central
government.  -- Sectarian fights rage in Iraq, which wants the U.S. out
but has no compelling plan for stability.  I haven’t even mentioned Pakistan or Israel yet. I think
the point is obvious: The need for U.S. military force may be
heightened in the next few years, even if it’s inconvenient from
a budgetary standpoint.  Vulnerable Programs  If Congress can’t revamp the defense budget too much, it
may have to cut health-care spending more than it otherwise
would. That could mean lowering reimbursement rates for Medicare
or Medicaid, or restricting permissible expenses, or both.  Health maintenance organizations that get a large slice of
their revenue from Medicare seem vulnerable. That includes
companies such as  Molina Healthcare Inc. (MOH) , based in Long Beach,
 California , and  Healthspring Inc. (HS) , based in Franklin, Tennessee.
At 27 times earnings, Molina seems more at risk than
Healthspring at 10.  Long-term care facilities, also known as rehab hospitals,
could find the federal government stingier than before.  National
Healthcare Corp. (NHC) , based in Murfreesboro, Tennessee, looks
vulnerable. The company gets 70 percent of its revenue from the
federal government, according to  Barclays Capital . The stock
isn’t cheap, at 17 times earnings.  Cheaper Looks Better  Also at some risk are health-care companies whose
treatments are expensive, especially if there are some cheaper
therapies available.  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH) , with headquarters in
Warsaw, Indiana, dominates the orthopedic implants business, but
may find doctors more reluctant to use top-of-the-line implants
that carry high profit margins.  Similarly,  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , a medical device
manufacturer, makes stents to keep blood vessels open, but
cheaper stents or drug treatments might be substituted.  Home health-care agencies may also face reduced
reimbursements or controls on the number of visits care workers
are permitted.  Amedisys Inc. (AMED)  of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, is the
subject of three investigations seeking to determine whether it
overcharged Medicare. A possible saving grace is that a lot of
bad news is already priced into the stock. The company’s shares
sell for eight times earnings.  Besides defense and health care, selected stocks in other
industries may also be vulnerable. For-profit colleges, for
example, depend on the federal government to guarantee the
student loans that pay for their students to attend. Without
loans, most students couldn’t go, and without federal guarantees
few lenders would issue student loans.  College Daze  Particularly risky is  Corinthian Colleges Inc. (COCO)  of Santa
Ana, California, which gets 90 percent of its revenue from the
federal government, according to Barclays Capital. In November,
I explained some reasons why I would stay away from Corinthian
Colleges shares, such as the fact that many of its students are
struggling to pay back their loans.  Also dependent on federal money is  Corrections Corp. of
America , a builder and operator of for-profit prisons. The
Nashville, Tennessee, company has a consistent history of
profits, but growth slowed to single digits last year.  I hope that Congress does not choose to cut spending on
cyber-security. If it does, though,  Keyw Holding Corp. (KEYW)  would be
in some trouble. A leader in that field, the Hanover, Maryland,
company sells for 25 times earnings.  Disclosure note: Personally and for clients, I own shares
of General Dynamics and Amedisys. I own Raytheon for a couple of
clients. I have no long or short positions in the other stocks
mentioned in this column.  ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  