-- 
STX Offshore Falls After Missing on Cruise Ship Order

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-02-14T08:52:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/stx-offshore-falls-after-missing-on-cruise-ship-order-update1-.html
STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co.,
builder of the world’s largest cruise ship, fell the most in
more than three months in  Seoul  trading after missing out on a
 Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd.  order.  The shipbuilder dropped 11 percent, the largest decline
since Nov. 5, to 27,100 won at the 3 p.m. close of trading in
Seoul. The Jinhae, South Korea-based company is the third-worst
performer today on the nation’s  Kospi index , which gained 1.9
percent.  STX Offshore’s European arm had been expected to win an
order to build  cruise ships  for Royal Caribbean, said Cho In
Karp, head of research at Heungkuk Securities Co. in Seoul. The
Miami-based cruise operator instead said in a Feb. 11 statement
that it had signed a letter of intent with  Meyer Werft GmbH .  “News that the contract went to another shipyard has
disappointed investors today,” Cho said. “There had been
expectations in the market that STX Offshore’s Europe unit would
win.”  STX Offshore declined to comment on the order in an e-
mailed response to Bloomberg News queries today.  The letter of intent with Papenburg, Germany-based Meyer
Werft covers one ship that will be delivered in the fall of 2014
and an option for another to be completed in spring of 2015,
Royal Caribbean said in a statement carried by PRNewswire.  STX Europe AS’s yard in Turku,  Finland , last year completed
Royal Caribbean’s Allure of the Seas, the world’s largest cruise
ship, which can accommodate as many as 6,360 passengers. The
sister vessel, Oasis of the Seas, was delivered a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  