-- 
Sunstone Names Arabia, Analyst From Green Street, Finance Chief

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-02-14T16:32:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/sunstone-names-arabia-analyst-from-green-street-chief-financial-officer.html
  Sunstone Hotel Investors Inc ., the
owner of 32 properties including the Hilton Times Square, hired
John Arabia, an analyst who follows the lodging industry, as
chief financial officer.  Arabia has been managing director at Green Street Advisors,
a  Newport Beach , California-based real estate research company,
since 1997. Sunstone also named him executive vice president of
corporate strategy, the  Aliso Viejo , California-based company
said in a statement today. The appointment is effective April 4.  Sunstone wants to buy $1 billion of assets this year to
expand its portfolio of upscale business hotels, Kenneth Cruse,
Sunstone’s president, said in an interview last month. The REIT
is looking to buy high-end hotels of 400 rooms or larger in
major cities on the U.S. East and West coasts.  “John will play a primary role in determining and
executing Sunstone’s growth and value creation strategies,”
Cruse said in the statement today.  Sunstone in December said Art Buser resigned as president
and chief executive officer after the company failed to complete
acquisitions. It’s seeking to take advantage of declines in
property values after a 2009 industry slump that was the biggest
since the Great Depression.  A rebound in U.S. business and leisure travel is buoying
the lodging industry. Occupancy in the top 25 markets climbed to
64 percent last year from 60 percent in 2009, according to  Smith
Travel Research Inc.  of Hendersonville,  Tennessee .  Sunstone over the past two years forfeited to Massachusetts
Mutual Life Insurance Co. eight hotels whose values had dropped
below their mortgages. Two additional properties, including the
W San Diego, also were handed over to lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 