-- 
Suzlon Energy Plans $392 Million Australian Wind Farm in New South Wales

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-02-14T06:09:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/suzlon-energy-plans-392-million-australian-wind-farm-in-new-south-wales.html
  Suzlon Energy Ltd ., the world’s
third-biggest maker of wind turbines, plans to build a wind farm
in  Australia ’s New South Wales state estimated to cost about
A$390 million ($392 million), government filings show.  The Indian manufacturer and partner Windlab Developments
Pty. are seeking approval for a venture that would have a
capacity of as much as 290 megawatts, according to documents
filed with the New South Wales planning department.  The proposed wind farm near Rugby, about 220 kilometers
(135 miles) southwest of Sydney, would likely start operating in
2014, the companies said in a filing lodged today on the
 Australian environment department’s website . Construction may
begin in the middle of next year, the document shows.  Australia, the world’s biggest coal exporter, has set a
target of generating 20 percent of the country’s power from
renewable energy by 2020. Prime Minister Julia Gillard has said
lawmakers must decide this year on a way to impose a cost on
burning fossil fuels such as coal to tackle  climate change .    AGL Energy Ltd ., the Australian electricity retailer, and
partner Meridian Energy Ltd. of  New Zealand  agreed last year to
build a 420-megawatt project in Victoria state that they expect
will be the biggest wind farm in the southern hemisphere.  About 150 construction jobs may be created by Suzlon’s
proposed wind farm, according to a New South Wales government
filing dated Nov. 2. The companies estimate the costs
“necessary to establish and operate the project,” including
design, construction and equipment, at A$390 million.  Suzlon has won more than A$2 billion in contracts in
Australia to supply more than 750 megawatts of clean power, the
 company’s website  shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 