-- 
Aksel Lund Svindal Retains World Super-Combined Skiing Gold for Norway

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-02-14T14:31:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/svindal-retains-super-combined-ski-gold-miller-ligety-fail-to-finish.html
Aksel Lund Svindal  retained his
world super-combined title at the  FIS Alpine Ski World
Championships  in Garmisch-Partenkirchen,  Germany , today.  The Norwegian finished with a total time of 2 minutes,
54.51 seconds in the event, which combines separate runs in the
downhill and the slalom.  Italy’s  Christof Innerhofer  finished second, trailing by
1.01 seconds. Innerhofer now has a full set of medals from the
world championships in  Bavaria , having won gold in the super-G
last week and bronze in the men’s downhill event during the
weekend. His teammate  Peter Fill  was third, 1.9 seconds behind
Svindal.  “I kind of thought, just keep your head cool,” Svindal
said in a televised interview after the race.  Svindal had led after the downhill leg as the only skier to
finish the bumpy Kandahar course in less than 2 minutes. Today’s
win, his first medal of the 2011 world championships, comes two
days after he crashed in the finish area in the downhill. It’s
Svindal’s sixth world championship medal overall.  Bode Miller, the Olympic super-combined champion from the
U.S., fell at the second gate of the 62-gate slalom run.
Miller’s teammate Ted Ligety, who won a combined gold medal at
the 2006 Turin Winter Olympics, also failed to finish.  Ivica Kostelic , the leader of the overall  World Cup  and the
winner of three combined races this season, did not take part
today. Instead, the Croatian has gone home to rest and prepare
for the giant slalom on Feb. 18 and the slalom on Feb. 20.  After taking the bronze medal in the super-G last week,
Kostelic told reporters the icy Kandahar downhill course was
“on the limits” of what’s safe.  Lindsey Vonn  of the U.S., who
won silver in the women’s downhill yesterday on the Kandahar
run, called it “downright unsafe” after inspecting it last
week.  Organizers have been struggling with a lack of snow, warm
weather during the day and freezing temperatures at night.  The world championships continue in two days with the
nations team event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  