-- 
Sweden Statist No More as Krona Makes Merkel's Case for Europe

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-02-14T18:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/sweden-statist-no-more-as-surging-krona-makes-merkel-s-argument-for-europe.html
  Sweden ’s krona is appreciating more
than any major currency, providing a model for German Chancellor
Angela Merkel as she fights to maintain Europe’s monetary union.  No major currency has performed better than the krona over
the past one-, three- and six-month periods, rising as much as
8.5 percent against a basket of nine developed-nation peers,
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show. Even after
the gains, UBS AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. boosted their
forecasts for the krona last week.  Sweden, which began revamping its social welfare system in
the mid-1990s, shows how a nation with rising interest rates and
a strong currency can prosper through exports, a key for Merkel
as she urges European leaders to focus on “competitiveness.”
International sales gained 14 percent last year, with truckmaker  Volvo AB ’s  Asia  sales up 50 percent in the first nine months,
and  Electrolux AB ’s rising 11 percent in the fourth quarter.  “Sweden is a huge success story,” said Dirk Aufderheide,
head of currencies in  Frankfurt  at DWS Investment GmbH, which
manages about $374 billion. “The economy has a strong
relationship to core Europe on the one hand, and they’re also
exporting to emerging markets and demand there is huge.”  The krona may strengthen to 8.60 per euro this year, from
8.7862 last week, Aufderheide said. The currency was at 8.7623
per euro and 6.4967 against the dollar at 12:53 p.m. in  New
York .  Sweden’s currency will probably end the year at 8.75 per
euro, according to the median of 24 forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg. As recently as Dec. 28, strategists were predicting
it would weaken to 9 per euro.  ‘Very Strong’  “Very strong growth” will probably lead to a “somewhat
stronger exchange rate,” Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said in
an interview in Stockholm on Feb. 11. The country aims to double
exports to about $310 billion by 2015, Trade Minister Ewa Bjoerling said in an interview in  Stockholm  on Feb. 1.  The economy grew 5.5 percent last year and may expand 5
percent in 2011, Citigroup Inc. estimates. That’s prompted the
central bank to raise  interest rates  four times since July to
1.25 percent, propelling the krona 14 percent higher against the
euro last year, the most in the 12-year history of the common
European currency. The  Federal Reserve  and  European Central Bank 
have kept borrowing costs unchanged.  Diverging Views  Traders show little concern that Sweden will stem the gains
after Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said in November that
currencies “should be market valued.” His views diverge from
leaders in  China , Brazil and  South Korea , who are seeking to
spur exports by limiting currency gains.  “Sweden is benefitting from the diversification of their
exports,” said  Marc Chandler , the global head of currency
strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “Sweden
is a small, open economy that is more dynamic than most of  Europe . The krona is a great story,” and may appreciate to
about 8.5 per euro, he said.  While Sweden’s $406 billion economy was the 22nd largest in
the world in 2009, it has the ninth most-actively traded
currency, according to the Bank for International Settlements in
Basel, Switzerland. The krona accounted for 2.2 percent of the
$4 trillion average daily turnover in foreign-exchange markets
last year, up from 0.3 percent in 1998, BIS data show.  Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy want to prevent
another crisis after soaring borrowing costs for Greece and
Ireland forced the countries to accept bailouts last year. Their
plans include debt-limit rules, reviving plans to harmonize
corporate taxes, abolishing wage indexation and promises to
clean up the banking system. Greece and Italy object to annual
numerical debt-reduction targets, according to an EU briefing
note obtained by Bloomberg News.  Export Concern  The krona’s gains may be near their limit and don’t take
into account the possibility of the Riksbank slowing or halting
rate increases as a stronger currency crimps exports and
restrains inflation, according to Millennium Global Investments
Ltd., which manages about $14 billion of foreign exchange.    SKF AB , the world’s biggest maker of ball bearings,
reported profit on Feb. 1 that missed analysts’ estimates,
blaming a stronger krona and raw material costs. The Gothenburg-
based company’s shares have tumbled 11 percent this year after
soaring 55 percent in 2010. The OMX Stockholm 30 Index, which
jumped 21 percent last year, is down 1.4 percent since December.  Rate Increases  “The krona might have already seen the majority of its
appreciation,” said Claire Dissaux, managing director of global
economics and strategy at Millennium in  London . “The central
bank will at some point begin to mention that the strength of
the currency is dampening inflation or that growth risks are now
more balanced.”  The currency appreciated 9.2 percent against the now 17-
member euro and 21 percent against the dollar since June as the
Riksbank raised the benchmark repo rate. Policy makers will
increase the rate to 1.50 percent tomorrow, according to all 22
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Borrowing costs should rise as “growth is higher and
unemployment lower than in earlier forecasts,” Riksbank
Governor Stefan Ingves said at the central bank’s December
policy meeting, minutes released Jan. 3 showed.  The ECB’s main refinancing rate has been at a record low 1
percent since May 2009, while the Fed’s target for overnight
loans between banks has been in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  Forecasts Raised  Goldman Sachs raised its three-month krona forecast to 8.7
per euro from 9, analysts including  Thomas Stolper , chief
currency strategist in London, wrote in a report received Feb.
9. UBS changed its year-end estimate to 8.60 per euro, from
8.75,  Gareth Berry , a strategist in Singapore, said the same
day, citing prospects that growth may “surprise to the
upside.”  “We’re still bullish,” said Adrian Schmidt, a strategist
at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London who predicts the
krona may trade at 8.65 per euro in three months. “The economy
looks strong and they are going to stay in tightening mode.”  Swedish exports climbed 21 percent in December from a year
earlier, and the nation posted a trade surplus every month last
year except August. The euro region had a 1.9 billion-euro ($2.6
billion) deficit in November.  About 50 percent of gross domestic product is generated
from sales abroad, with 12 percent going to Asia and 72 percent
to Europe in the first eight months of last year, according to
Riksbank data in November.  Stock Purchases  Gothenburg-based Volvo, the world’s biggest maker of heavy
trucks after Germany’s  Daimler AG , reported nine-month sales in
Asia of 47.7 billion kronor ($7.4 billion), accounting for 26
percent of total revenue from industrial operations. Electrolux,
the second-bigger maker of appliances, boosted consumer durable
Latin American sales by 30 percent in the fourth quarter from
the previous three months, compared with 5.4 percent growth in
Europe, Middle East and Africa, the Stockholm-based company said
on Feb. 2.  Investors outside Sweden increased their purchases of the
nation’s stocks 10-fold between April and December, according to
Statistics Sweden data tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc. In the
three months ended November, they bought on average a net 7.621
billion kronor of Swedish shares, up from an average 725 million
for the three months through April.  “At the moment Sweden is a beautiful story,” said David Bloom, global head of foreign-exchange strategy at HSBC in
London. The krona may strengthen about two percent against the
euro, according to a report by the bank received on Feb. 11.  “The growth outlook is good, exports are rising, interest
rates are moving higher and the budget situation is good,”
Bloom said. “It’s not just that inflation will rise but that
growth is picking up. We are pretty bullish on the krona.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  