-- 
Most U.S. Stocks Rise as Egypt, China Optimism Offsets Valuation

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-02-14T22:07:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/u-s-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-wal-mart-falls-general-electric-gains.html
Most U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to an almost 32-month high, as
optimism about Egypt’s democratic transition plan and  China ’s
jump in exports overshadowed concern valuations climbed too far.    Schlumberger Ltd . and  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc .
rallied at least 2.3 percent on optimism about Chinese demand
for commodities.  Netflix Inc . jumped 7.1 percent after Caris &
Co. raised its price-estimate for the DVD-rental company. Wal-
Mart Stores Inc., the world’s biggest retailer, dropped 1.6
percent as JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its recommendation on the
shares.  GameStop Corp . slumped 2 percent after the video-game
retailer was downgraded at Piper Jaffray Cos.  About seven stocks gained for every six that fell on U.S.
exchanges. The S&P 500 advanced 0.2 percent to 1,332.32 at 4
p.m. in New York, the highest level since June 2008. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  lost 5.07 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 12,268.19.  “This is a profit-driven recovery on top of good economic
figures,” said  Jeffrey Saut , chief investment strategist at
Raymond James & Associates in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , who helps
manage $252 billion. “Does the overbought condition change the
fundamental backdrop? I’d say not at all. China has been giving
indications that growth will not slow. In Egypt, we see some
relief but a lot depends on whether they do what they’re
planning to do.”  Rebound  The S&P 500 has gained 97 percent from a 12-year low in
March 2009 amid government stimulus measures and higher-than-
estimated earnings. Earnings-per-share have topped analysts’
estimates at about 74 percent of the 348 companies in the S&P
500 that reported results since Jan. 10, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The rally left the S&P 500 trading at 15.9 times the
reported operating earnings of its companies on Feb. 11, the
highest valuation since June.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 1.3 percent after  Egypt ’s ruling army council said it aims to hand power to a
democratically elected government within six months. The Supreme
Council of the Armed Forces yesterday dissolved parliament,
suspended the constitution and said it would rule until general
elections take place. The council also formed a committee to
introduce constitutional changes, according to a statement read
on state television yesterday.  China Trade  Stocks rose in  Asia  after China reported a smaller-than-
forecast trade surplus of about $6.5 billion in January as a
rebounding economy and rising commodity costs helped drive a 51
percent gain in imports. Exports rose 38 percent from a year
earlier, the customs bureau said on its website today. January
data are distorted by the timing of Chinese New Year.  President Barack Obama will send Congress a $3.7 trillion
budget that would reduce deficits by $1.1 trillion over a
decade, setting up a battle with Republicans who have already
deemed the plan insufficient to reduce federal debt. The deficit
for the current fiscal year is forecast to hit a record $1.6
trillion -- 10.9 percent of gross domestic product -- up from
$1.4 trillion the administration estimated previously, according
to documents released this morning by the administration.  “The budget deficit talk isn’t news to anyone who has
lived in America for the past year,” said  Tim Hartzell , who
oversees $300 million as chief investment officer for Houston-
based Sequent Asset Management. “As Boehner said ‘we’re broke’
but so is the rest of the world,” he said, citing Republican
House Speaker  John Boehner .  Excessive Budget Deficits  European policymakers have debated moving toward greater
fiscal centralization in the currency zone as a means of
limiting excessive budget deficits similar to those that led
Greece and Ireland to seek aid from the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  last year.  Producers of energy and raw materials had the two biggest
gains in the S&P 500 among 10 industries, rising at least 1
percent. Copper rallied after a report of higher imports in
China, the world’s largest user of industrial metals. Copper
imports jumped 5.7 percent in January from the previous month,
after a 2 percent drop in December.  Schlumberger, the world’s largest oilfield services
provider, gained 2.4 percent to $92.24. Freeport, the biggest
publicly traded copper producer, rallied 4.9 percent to $56.14.    Kellogg Co . advanced 0.7 percent to $53.48 after regulatory
filings showed that billionaire Nelson Peltz’s hedge funds
bought a $150 million stake last quarter. The funds, including
New York-based Trian Partners General Partner LLC, held 2.78
million Kellogg shares on Dec. 31, according to three Form 13Fs
filed today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Netflix  Netflix Inc. jumped 7.1 percent to $247.55. The DVD-rental
and streaming company had its share-price estimate increased to
$316 from $224 by Caris & Co.  Bank of America Corp. lifted its per-share profit estimates
for companies in the S&P 500 in 2011 and 2012 and said the gauge
is “likely” to rise to 1,500 this year. The bank forecast
combined earnings from companies in the benchmark gauge of U.S.
equities will be $95 a share in 2011, up from an earlier
estimate of $93, and $102 next year, up from $99, citing
accelerating growth in U.S. and world gross domestic product at
the end of last year that’s boosting corporate profits.  “Our  S&P 500  intrinsic valuation model puts 2011 year-end
fair value at 1,530, but we retain our 1,400 target until we get
more clarity on  interest rates ,”  David Bianco , head of U.S.
equity strategy, wrote in a note dated today.  The benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks has rallied 27 percent
since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  suggested on Aug.
27 that he was prepared to act to spur economic growth.  ‘Isn’t Cheap Anymore’  “The market isn’t cheap anymore,” said Mike Morcos,
senior money manager at Old Second Wealth Management in Aurora,
Illinois, which oversees about $1.2 billion. “The economy is
improving and the market is ahead of that, but we remain bullish
as long as the Fed continues to provide liquidity.”  Wal-Mart declined 1.6 percent to $54.80. The biggest
retailer was cut to “neutral” from “overweight” at JPMorgan,
which cited a lack of positive catalysts to move the stock
higher and loss of market share in a number of consumer goods
categories at the retailer, which reports earnings next week.  GameStop fell 2 percent to $19.87 after the video-game
retailer was downgraded to “underweight” from “neutral” at
Piper Jaffray, which said the shift to online entertainment will
be a negative for the company, which sells games through more
than 6,500 retail stores globally.  Clorox Co. slipped 6.2 percent to $66.85. The maker of
cleaners including its namesake bleach was cut to “neutral” by
UBS AG and “underperform” by Bank of America.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Rita Nazareth} in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
{Nikolaj Gammeltoft} in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  