-- 
U.S. Bailout Watchdog Barofsky to Resign March 30

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-02-15T01:03:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/u-s-government-bailout-watchdog-barofsky-to-resign-march-30.html
(Corrects name of program in first paragraph.)    Neil Barofsky , who criticized the
U.S. Treasury Department’s handling of taxpayer-funded bailouts
as special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief
Program, resigned effective March 30.  Barofsky, 40, said in a letter to President Barack Obama
that he was stepping down to “pursue other opportunities,”
saying his office had a “truly remarkable positive impact.” He
said his office’s investigations led to 14 criminal convictions
for fraud, recovered more than $150 million and avoided the loss
of $550 million in fraud.  Since taking office as special inspector general in
December 2008, Barofsky assailed the U.S. bailout of  American
International Group Inc ., the Treasury’s housing loan-
modification program, and the government’s decision to speed the
pace of closings of  General Motors Co . and Chrysler Group LLC
auto dealerships.  TARP’s “most significant legacy” may be “the moral
hazard and potentially disastrous consequences associated with
the continued existence of financial institutions that are ‘too
big to fail,’” Barofsky said in a report last month.  ‘Personal Decision’  Barofsky’s resignation “was a personal decision based on a
number of factors, including his desire to spend more time with
his wife and 9-month-old daughter,” Barofsky spokeswoman Kris Belisle said in an e-mailed statement. Christy Romero, the
deputy special inspector general, “will continue our important
task of providing oversight.”  Romero was Barofsky’s chief of staff until today, when she
and Geoffrey Moulton, who had been deputy special inspector
general, switched jobs, Belisle said. As deputy, Romero may
become acting special inspector general unless President  Barack
Obama  designates someone else for the acting position. The
permanent special inspector general for TARP must be nominated
by the president and confirmed by the Senate.  Belisle declined to say why Romero and Moulton switched
jobs effective the same day Barofsky announced his resignation.  In November 2009, Barofsky, a former assistant U.S.
attorney, said TARP will “almost certainly” result in a loss
to taxpayers.  Outlook Improved  Since then, the outlook for TARP has improved. The  Congressional Budget Office , which at one point estimated that
the bailout program would cost $350 billion, has lowered its
projection to as little as $25 billion. Of the $700 billion
Congress authorized for TARP in 2008, $410 billion was
disbursed.  “Barofsky has provided strong oversight of the TARP
program for the past two years,” White House spokeswoman Amy Brundage said in a statement.  The special inspector general “has the responsibility,
among other things, to conduct, supervise and coordinate audits
and investigations of the purchase, management and sale of
assets” under the TARP program, according to the special
inspector general’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  