-- 
Treasury Two-Year Yields Approach Eight-Month High Before Economic Reports

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-02-14T12:32:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/u-s-2-year-yield-near-8-month-high-before-retail-sales-industrial-output.html
Treasury two-year note yields were
within three basis points of an eight-month high as rising
stocks and forecasts that retail sales and industrial production
gained in January reduced demand for the safest assets.  The difference between two-year note yields and the  Federal
Reserve ’s target for overnight lending between banks was 58
basis points, after widening to 60 basis points on Feb. 8, the
highest level since May. President  Barack Obama  is due to submit
a budget to Congress today.  “The indicators are signaling expansion, which is good and
weighs on the Treasury market,” said  Karsten Linowsky , a
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “Retail sales
is a key figure because the consumption component in the gross
domestic product is very large.”  Two-year note yields increased less than one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 0.84 percent at 7:21 a.m. in  New
York , according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 0.625
percent security maturing in January 2013 dropped less than
1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 99 18/32.  Benchmark 10-year note yields advanced two basis points to
3.65 percent. The two-year note yield climbed to 0.86 percent on
Feb. 9, the highest level since May 28.  U.S. government securities maturing in more than a year
have handed investors a 1.3 percent loss this month, the worst
performance of 26 sovereign-bond markets tracked by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. The
MSCI World Index of stocks have gained 2.6 percent.  Gain in Stocks  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rose as much as 1.8
percent today, the most in three months, while the Stoxx Europe
600 Index gained 0.2 percent.  U.S. retail sales increased 0.5 percent last month
following a 0.6 percent gain December, according to the median
forecast of 62 economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
figures from the Commerce Department tomorrow.  Fed figures the next day may show industrial production
rose 0.5 percent in January, a separate survey of economists
showed. The U.S. central bank has held its fed funds target at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and is pursuing a
program of asset buying, known as quantitative easing, aimed at
boosting the economy.  “The Fed is clearly on hold, but the market fears more
inflation further down the line,” said  David Schnautz , a
fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. “The
intermediate and the long end of the curve will suffer as the
market pushes for higher yields.”  Dudley’s Address  New York Fed President  William Dudley , an advocate of the
Fed’s asset-purchase programs, is scheduled to speak at a
regional economic briefing at the bank’s headquarters today.  The Obama administration’s 2012 budget, due to be sent to
Congress today, would save $1.1 trillion over the next 10 years
to rein in a deficit that may reach a record $1.5 trillion this
year, White House Budget Director Jacob Lew said yesterday on  CNN ’s “State of the Union” program.  The Fed is  scheduled  to buy $1 billion to $2 billion of
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities maturing from April 2013
to February 2040 today as part of its effort to spur growth.  The  consumer price index  advanced 0.3 percent in January,
slowing from the 0.5 percent gain in December, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists before
the Labor Department’s figures are published Feb. 17.  The inflation report will also show costs excluding food
and energy increased 0.9 percent in January from a year earlier,
the Bloomberg surveys show.  Inflation View  “A higher-than-expected number could shake confidence”
and could cause Treasuries to fall, said  Charles Diebel , head of
market strategy at Lloyds TSB Bank Plc in London.   Core
inflation  in the U.S. has been very benign, so any kind of
pickup in that is going to prove quite worrying.”  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and TIPS, a
gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices over the life
of the securities, was little changed at 2.30 percent today. It
hit a 15-month low of 1.47 percent in August.  While some of the lowest borrowing costs on record have
helped the  U.S. economy  recover from its worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression, bond yields are now rising as growth
resumes. Net interest expenses will triple to an all-time high
of $554 billion in 2015 from $185 billion in 2010, according to
the government’s adjusted 2011 budget  Fund managers became less bearish on the outlook for
Treasuries through March, according to a weekly survey by Ried
Thunberg ICAP Inc. Ried’s sentiment index rose to 49 for the
seven days ended Feb. 11 from 45 the week before. A figure less
than 50 indicates investors expect prices to decline. The fund
managers surveyed turned more pessimistic when asked about the
outlook for Treasuries through June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  