-- 
Ugandan Rebels Murder 12 in Congo's North Kivu Province, Local Leader Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-02-14T14:56:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/ugandan-rebels-murder-12-in-congo-s-north-kivu-province-local-leader-says.html
Ugandan rebels tortured and killed
12 people in  Democratic Republic of Congo ’s eastern North Kivu
province, a local leader said.  The victims, all from the same village, were kidnapped from
Jan. 27 to Feb. 5 on the way to their fields by rebels from the
Allied Democratic Forces-National Army for the Liberation of  Uganda , or ADF-NALU, Omar Kavota, president of a civil society
coordination group in the town of Beni, said by phone. The
corpses showed signs of torture, he said.  “We’re still looking for three other hostages,” Kavota
said.  Congo’s eastern region has been mired in conflict for more
than 15 years, fuelled by illicit trade of natural resources.
Between 1998 and 2007, more than 3 million people died as a
result of the conflict, mainly due to preventable disease and
hunger, according to the New York-based  International Rescue
Committee .  Congolese military operations against the Islamist ADF-NALU
rebels began in late June in the Beni area near the Ugandan
border. The rebels, who emerged in the 1990’s vowing to
overthrow Yoweri Museveni’s government in Uganda, were largely
destroyed by Congolese and United Nations forces in 2005,
according to the UN.  The remaining rebels have been involved in the trafficking
of diamonds and gold from North Kivu and Ituri district,
according to a 2007 report by the  World Bank . The group is also
involved in poaching, extortion, and illicit trade in timber,
according to the Congolese army.  About 50,000 people fled their homes last year because of
fighting between the army and the rebels, according to the UN
 Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs .  The ADF-NALU is led by Jamil Mukulu, a Muslim cleric who
has been based in  London , according to a  UN report  released in
November. Mukulu is listed on the  Interpol website  as wanted in
Uganda for terrorism. The rebel group is also on the U.S.’s
 Terrorist Exclusion List , which blocks members and foreigners
who support the group from entering the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 