-- 
Hungary Rates Unlikely to Turn ‘Suddenly,’ Rogan Says

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-02-14T12:20:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/hungary-rates-unlikely-to-turn-suddenly-rogan-says-update1-.html
Hungary’s monetary policy probably
won’t turn around "suddenly" with new members joining the
central bank’s rate-setting panel, said Antal Rogan, chairman of
Parliament’s Economy Committee which may nominate them.  "I don’t think we should expect new Monetary Council
members to suddenly change the direction of monetary policy,"
Rogan, who is a member of Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s Fidesz
party, said at a committee hearing today in Budapest.  Lawmakers are debating a government proposal that would
allow the committee, dominated by ruling-party members, to pick
all four outside members of the Monetary Council when their
terms expire on March 1. The move is opposed by the central
bank, whose president,  Andras Simor , would lose the right to
nominate two of the four outside members.  Analysts and investors "feel the goal of the new changes is
to ensure the primacy of politics over the economy, the curbing
of the central bank’s independence," central bank Vice President
Julia Kiraly told committee members today. She urged lawmakers
to vote against the bill, saying it doesn’t improve economic
stability.  The forint fell 0.5 percent to 272.08 per euro by 12:51
p.m. in Budapest. It has gained 2.4 percent this year.  Lawmakers must strive to ensure central bank independence,
Rogan said.  Rates Rise  The committee hasn’t put forward names of nominees to the
seven-member Monetary Council, which raised the benchmark two-
week deposit rate by 0.75 percentage points in the past three
months to 6 percent to stem accelerating inflation. The moves
were openly criticized by the Cabinet, saying raising rates
hurts pro-growth measures.  Orban on Feb. 5 said the government doesn’t want to raise
the central bank’s 3 percent inflation target to allow for
interest-rate cuts. The comment eased concern among some
analysts about potential government interference of monetary
policy, Raiffeisen International Bank AG and Erste Group Bank AG
said last week.  Some analysts including Peter Attard Montalto at Nomura Plc
remain skeptical about the government’s intentions of
overhauling the nomination process.  "We went to  Hungary  pessimistic on the" Monetary Council
"handover process," Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based
economist for Nomura, wrote in a research note today after
meeting with Simor and Economy Ministry officials. "We leave
more worried and now more convinced the market risks a serious
surprise if it does not fully consider what is likely to occur."  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  