-- 
Tunisia Democracy Gridlock Foreshadows Transition Woes in Egypt Leadership

-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-02-14T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/tunisia-democracy-gridlock-foreshadows-transition-woes-in-egypt-leadership.html
In what may be a lesson for  Egypt ,
the ouster of Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali one
month ago has created conflict between politicians jostling to
fill the political hole.  The former ruling party says Islamic participation in a
future government would hurt women’s rights and tourism, while
the Islamists say their opponents should be permanently banned
because they supported Ben Ali’s dictatorship.  A committee of university scholars working on
recommendations to shape elections and the new regime doesn’t
include representatives from the largest Islamic group,  Ennahda ,
which questions its legitimacy. The disputes come ahead of
elections in six months, the first since the North African
state’s independence from  France  in 1956.  “Tunisia will be a test case for the Arab world,” said
Mohsen Marzouk, Tunisian head of the  Arab Democracy Foundation 
in Qatar, in a Feb. 9 telephone interview. “Success would give
Arab youth seeking change a model to turn to. Failure means
instability, economic losses, a possible return to military rule
and fuels the opinion that Arabs are not ready for democracy.”  At stake is a transition to democracy in the first Arab
country that saw an autocrat toppled by street opposition.  Tunisia ’s Jasmine Revolution inspired protests across a region
that holds 62 percent of the world’s oil reserves.  Demonstrations took place in Yemen, Algeria, Jordan and
Egypt, where President  Hosni Mubarak  resigned on Feb. 11. He
handed over power to the army, which promised to organize fair
elections in six months.  Voting Limits  Free and fair elections would be unique in the region.
Morocco and  Kuwait  allow competition under a limit set by their
monarchs, while democracy in Iraq and Lebanon is more about
keeping a power balance between the different communities than
about citizen representation, Marzouk said.  In Tunisia, a transitional government led by Mohamed Ghannouchi, prime minister under Ben Ali, is running the country
with the aim to organize a transition toward elected
institutions. Looting and rampaging incidents that were reported
after Ben Ali’s ouster have receded and Tunis and the coastal
areas most visited by tourists are now largely peaceful.  Markets, though, have not fully recovered from losses
during the turmoil. The yield on Tunisia’s 400 million-euro
($546 million) bonds maturing in June 2020 was 5.9 percent on
Feb. 14, compared with a year high of 6.15 percent on Jan. 31,
according to Bloomberg composite prices. They yielded 4.5
percent at the end of November.  Constant Meetings  The benchmark  stock index , Tunindex, is down 10.6 percent
for 2011 after losses bottomed at 16 percent on Feb. 1.  Moody’s Investors Service on Jan. 19 lowered government
bond ratings to Baa3, the lowest in the investment-grade
category, over concern that that the unrest might affect the
economy.  Fitch Ratings  on Jan. 27 said Tunisia’s economy would
grow 2 percent in 2011, compared with a government forecast of
5.4 percent announced in November.  “The improvement in security is positive, and will help
investor confidence,” said Charles Seville, a director on
Fitch’s sovereign team, in an e-mail on Feb. 10. “ There will
still be political noise and we still envisage a fall in tourism
and foreign direct investment in 2011.”  For Maya Jribi, secretary-general of Tunisia’s opposition
Progressive Democratic Party and a leader in the January
uprising, democracy will open the way for the population to have
a say in the management of the economy. Her schedule is filled
with meetings with students, labor unionists and supporters as
she spreads the party message about greater wealth distribution
and a bigger government role in education and health.  Elections Will Decide  Jribi, 50, the first woman to lead a political party in
Tunisia, says she wants to put to rest the notion that Arabs are
not ready for democracy, as well as the other main argument used
by authoritarian governments: that their removal would lead to
Islamist rule.  “It’s not the Islamists who led the revolution against
Ben Ali and this proves the existence of other effective
forces,” she said, speaking in a Feb. 2 interview in Tunis.
“The elections will determine the weight of each group.”  The nation’s first-ever  opinion poll , published Feb. 5 by
Sigma Conseil, showed that three best known political groups are
the former ruling party, the Constitutional Democratic Rally;
Ennahda; and Jribi’s party, known locally as PDP. The survey had
an error margin of 2.8 percent.  Unknown for Now  Three out of four of the 1,250 people polled by telephone
said they didn’t know for whom they will vote. Those who did
mentioned  Ahmed Nejib Chebbi , the PDP candidate; Prime Minister
Ghannouchi, army chief of staff  Rachid Ammar  and Ennahda leader
 Rashid Gannouchi , who is not related to the prime minister.  As democracy makes its first steps in the country of 10
million, the army remains on standby. Soldiers guard major
crossroads and government buildings, reflecting the military’s
increased role since Ammar refused on Jan. 13 to carry out Ben
Ali’s orders to open fire on the protests. That effectively
forced the president to flee to  Saudi Arabia  the next day.  “If the civilians fail to bring about democracy smoothly,
Ammar will be accepted as a ruler by large segments of opinion
as long as he’s seen as a transition to prepare civilian rule,”
said democracy foundation head Marzouk. “The army is the only
force that can keep the political police of Ben Ali and Ennahda
in check.”  Ennahda, which means “renaissance” in Arabic, is seeking
to allay fears encouraged by Ben Ali that it would alter the
civil code, the most favorable to women in the Arab world, or
restrict tourism that accounts for 7 percent of the nation’s $40
billion GDP, providing 400,000 jobs.  Like  Turkey   The Islamist group will not field a candidate in the
presidential elections and will contest parliamentary elections
only, said leader Ghannouchi in a Feb. 2 interview, three days
after his return from a 22-year exile in the U.K. He said the
group will abide by democratic rules, as does Turkey’s Justice
and Development party under Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan .  The movement against Ben Ali started in mid-December as a
protest against poverty and unemployment, which touches 13
percent of the active population. More than two-thirds of the
jobless are under 30 and thousands try each year to sail across
the  Mediterranean Sea  illegally to reach  Europe , seeking jobs.  The flow increased after the Tunisian uprising to become a
“mass exodus,” Italian Interior Minister Roberto Maroni said
on Feb. 11 as diminished police surveillance off the coast on
the Tunisian side allowed more people to try the crossing.  No Abuses  Ben Ali’s party, known locally by its French acronym RCD,
will purge itself of those linked to human rights abuses and
corruption in order to overcome a ban ordered by the interim
government and compete in the upcoming elections, its secretary
general, Mohamed Ghariani, said in a Feb. 2 interview.  “We are a modernist movement open to the West,” he said.
“We can put forward achievements like liberation from
colonialism and the civil code; we will seek to preserve  women’s
rights .”  For Ennahda’s Ghannouchi, that argument no longer stands.
“They were calling on Ben Ali to stay as president for life;
they should be banned,” he said. He criticized the presence of
former RCD officials or government officials in the bodies
overseeing the transition.  Added Marzouk: “RCD and Ennahda feed on the fear induced
by each other. Democracy will depend on the ability of the other
politicians to propose alternatives to those who reject
dictatorship and don’t want to vote for the Islamists.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Tunis at
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 