-- 
UPS Store Makes $22.5 Million Available for Franchisee Loans

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-02-14T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/ups-store-makes-22-5-million-available-for-franchisee-loans.html
  United Parcel Service Inc .’s UPS
Store, the world’s largest chain of retail shipping outlets, is
making $22.5 million available to franchisees who want to open
new locations or expand to reach more customers.  The loans will be arranged through  Franchise America
Finance  and Bancorp Inc., United Parcel Service said today in a
statement. The financing will help the chain exceed its target
of 120 new locations this year, said Stuart Mathis, president of
Mail Boxes Etc. Inc., the franchisor of UPS Store.  UPS’s move to provide more capital to its franchisees comes
just days after President  Barack Obama  urged business leaders
that “now is the time to invest in America” and create more
jobs. Package volume at Atlanta-based UPS rose 3.4 percent last
year, a reversal from two straight annual declines during the
recession, as companies and consumers shipped more items.  “A huge issue for franchisees has been the lack of credit
availability,” Mathis said in an interview.  UPS opened 86 new stores last year, below its target,
mostly because franchisees couldn’t get funding, Mathis said.  The lending program will make $15 million available for new
locations, and $7.5 million for the transfer of current stores
to new owners. The minimum loan size is $150,000 and the
interest rate will be prime plus 2.75 percent points, Mathis
said.  There are 4,700  UPS Store  locations, all but 300 of them in
the U.S., and about a third of franchisees operate more than one
store already, he said.  UPS handles about 15 million packages a day and along with  FedEx Corp . is considered an economic bellwether because they
transport items ranging from electronics and pharmaceuticals to
clothing and financial documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 