-- 
Turkey May Pause Rate Experiment to Track Lending Volumes

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-02-14T10:55:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/turkey-may-pause-rate-experiment-to-track-lending-volumes.html
The Turkish central bank may keep
the benchmark interest rate on hold after two months of cuts to
assess whether the reductions and curbs on bank lending have
reined in foreign capital inflows and prevented a credit bubble.  The bank probably will hold the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a record low of 6.25 percent when it announces the
decision at 2 p.m. in Ankara tomorrow, according to six of seven
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One predicted a cut to 6
percent.  Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  unexpectedly lowered the rate in
December and January, seeking to deter short-term capital
inflows and weaken the lira. He said the easing would be more
than offset by higher  reserve requirements  for banks that will
slow lending. Loan data arrives with a lag and the bank needs
“a few more weeks” to be certain the reserve increases are
working, Yilmaz said on Feb. 7.  “What the bank is doing is very experimental and they want
to see the results,” Ahmet Akarli, a London-based economist for
Goldman Sachs Inc., said in an interview on Feb. 11. “The story
now is much more about tightening.”  Industrial output rose 5.7 percent in December from a month
earlier, the biggest increase since the statistics office
started providing seasonally adjusted figures in 2005. The
current-account deficit in the same month was $7.5 billion, the
widest in more than 25 years.  Domestic Demand  The economy probably grew 8 percent last year, Finance
Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said Feb. 10 in  Abu Dhabi . The growth is
“not balanced” because it’s based on strong domestic demand,
Yilmaz told investors in  London  on Feb. 7.  The new policy aims to restrain domestic demand by forcing
banks to set aside more reserves against lending. Outstanding
consumer loans excluding credit cards were 128.1 billion liras
($80.3 billion) in the week ending Feb. 2, about 38 percent
higher than a year earlier, according to central bank data. The
government thinks loan growth of between 20 percent and 25
percent would be better, Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  said
in December.  The central bank made increases of as much as 4 percentage
points to the reserves banks must set aside against short-term
liabilities on Jan. 17. Those changes won’t take full effect
until Feb. 18, three days after the rates meeting.  Net income last year at  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS , the
biggest single provider of  consumer lending  according to the
country’s banks’ association, rose 6.2 percent to 3.15 billion
liras, the lender said Feb. 10.  The lira has lost 5.1 percent of its value against the
dollar since the central bank’s new policy mix of lower rates
and higher reserve requirements began on Dec. 13.  Inflation slowed to a four-decade low of 4.9 percent in
January. The bank expects it to slow again in February before
accelerating, partly because the weaker lira increases the price
of imported gas and oil.  -- Editors: Mark Bentley  To contact the reporters on this story:  Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 