-- 
Turkish Stocks Advance After Egypt Political Tensions Subside

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-02-14T10:57:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/turkish-stocks-advance-after-egypt-political-tensions-subside.html
Turkish stocks rose for a second day
after the Egyptian army pledged to hand power to a
democratically elected government, bolstering confidence that
turmoil in the Arab world’s most populous nation will subside.  The main  ISE National 100 Index  of shares advanced 476.66,
or 0.7 percent, to 65,207.01 at 11:48 a.m. in Istanbul. The lira
depreciated 0.2 percent to 1.5906 per dollar. Yields on
benchmark two-year lira debt were unchanged at 8.37 percent,
according to a Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc gauge.  Egypt’s ruling army council said yesterday it aims to
relinquish authority over the country within six months, after
almost three weeks of popular unrest ended 30 years of
autocratic rule by President  Hosni Mubarak . Turkish exports to
North Africa and the Middle East were $30.361 billion in 2010,
or 26 percent of total overseas sales, according to the
statistics agency.  “Our bourse basically followed the American and Asian
bourses on positive sentiment arising from the events in  Egypt 
at the weekend,” Nezihi Abay, head of sales and trading at
Global Securities in Istanbul, said by telephone. “But now eyes
have turned on tomorrow’s central bank meeting and I expect the
current levels at the stock exchange to hold before the
meeting.”  The central bank will probably leave its benchmark interest
rate at 6.25 percent tomorrow, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Policy makers are
unlikely to raise banks’ reserve requirements at this meeting to
damp credit expansion, leaving more liquidity in the market,
Emine Reyhan Cakir, an analyst at Is Invest in Istanbul, said by
telephone.  The central bank on Jan. 24 increased lenders’ reserve
requirements on deposits for the second time since the start of
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  