-- 
USDA Budget Would Rise 11% on Food-Stamp Spending

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-02-14T21:40:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/usda-budget-would-rise-11-with-number-of-people-on-food-stamps-at-records.html
U.S. Department of Agriculture
spending would increase 11 percent to $144 billion in fiscal
2012 as the number of people receiving nutrition assistance
reaches records and  food-safety  spending rises, the government
said.  The  Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program , or  food
stamps , will cost $85.2 billion in the year starting Oct. 1, up
15 percent from levels in 2010, the last time agencies had an
enacted budget, according to the spending plan President  Barack Obama  sent to Congress today. A record 43.6 million people,
more than one of every eight Americans, received  food stamps  in
November, as the jobless rate stayed near a 27-year high, the
USDA said earlier this month.  “There’s growth in the program like there is in
unemployment, because of the recession and continued economic
weakness,” said James Weill, the president of the Washington-
based Food Research and Action Center.  The USDA spending plan is part of the overall $3.7
trillion budget that calls for this year’s deficit to reach
$1.6 trillion. Some Republicans have been critical of the plan
as insufficient to reduce federal debt. The USDA projections
are based on the 2008 farm bill that authorized agriculture
funding for a five-year period.  Reduced Subsidies  Agricultural subsidies would fall 14 percent with higher
crop prices and as the administration tries to limit payments
to wealthy farmers, according to the Obama proposal.  Agriculture Secretary  Tom Vilsack  said direct payments,
regardless of crop prices, would be restricted to growers with
farm income of less than $500,000, or non-farm income of less
than $250,000, reiterating a proposal from a year ago.  About $116.4 billion of the USDA budget will go to
mandatory programs that have multiyear spending formulas set by
law, a 13 percent increase from fiscal year 2010. Total budget
authority for discretionary programs, which require annual
appropriations, would fall 12 percent to $23.9 billion. The
budget is subject to approval by Congress.  “The budget has to reflect the reality of deficit
reduction,” Vilsack told reporters at a briefing in Washingon.
“The president has been clear about it, the people have been
clear. There’s an expectation when times are tough, folks
tighten the belt.”  Under the president’s plan, funding for the  Commodity
Credit Corp. , which makes farm-subsidy payments, would drop to
$10.8 billion from $12.5 billion.  Food Safety  The USDA’s  Food Safety and Inspection Service  would receive
$1.1 billion to monitor meat, egg and dairy facilities, down $8
million from 2010.  The cuts reflect “efficiencies that can be obtained” and
should not affect food safety, Vilsack said.  Obama last month signed a $1.4 billion food-safety bill,
with most of the funding going to the  Food and Drug
Administration , which is responsible for overseeing 80 percent
of the U.S. food supply.  USDA spending in fiscal year 2010 totaled $129.5 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net . 