-- 
Museveni Likely to Win Ugandan Vote as Oil Boom Nears

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-02-15T13:24:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/museveni-may-extend-25-year-rule-in-uganda-with-nation-on-cusp-of-oil-boom.html
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni
will probably win an election this week, extending his 25-year-
rule in the East African nation on the cusp of an oil boom. He
hasn’t explained how he plans to manage the bonanza.  London-based  Tullow Oil Plc  will start pumping oil and gas
next year from the Lake Albert Basin, with volumes expected to
reach 200,000 barrels a day by 2015. The country has an
estimated 2.5 billion barrels of oil, with about 1 billion
barrels already discovered, according to the company’s data.  Uganda’s  economic growth  averaged more than 8 percent for
the seven fiscal years through June 30, 2008, the fastest in
East Africa, according to the World Bank. That record is
probably enough to ensure Museveni’s victory, even as concern
mounts that a policy of keeping oil contracts secret means the
economy may not benefit as much as it could.  “There is very little information on how those resources
will be managed by the fiscal authorities or shared by the
producers,” Yvette Babb, an analyst with  Standard Bank , said by
phone from Johannesburg on Jan. 20. “The risk of having a lack
of transparency is that those funds might be used for
unproductive reasons or fall into the wrong hands.”  Museveni, 66, is backed by 67 percent of voters ahead of
the election on Feb. 18, according to a survey by the local unit
of market research company  Synovate . Kizza Besigye, 54, head of
the  Forum for Democratic Change  party, scored 19 percent. The
poll of 1,979 people between Dec. 3 and Dec. 14 had a margin of
error of 2.2 percentage points.  Poor Track Record  Museveni and his National Resistance Army seized power in
January 1986, after a five-year guerrilla war toppled the regime
of  Milton Obote  and the short-lived military junta led by Tito
Okello. He won consecutive victories in 1996, 2001 and 2006,
even though the  Supreme Court  found irregularities in the last
two elections challenged by Besigye.  Museveni ranks as one of Africa’s longest serving leaders
along with Muammar al-Qaddafi of  Libya ,  Zimbabwe ’s Robert Mugabe
and until last week,  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak .  Tension is rising ahead of the vote following warnings of
terrorist attacks by Islamic groups in Somalia and allegations
of violence against the opposition.  Opposition supporters have formed vigilante groups to
defend themselves,  Amnesty International  said on Feb. 11. Inter-
Party Cooperation, a group of four opposition parties including
Besigye’s, will deploy observers at polling stations across the
country and release its own count, the group’s chairman, Sam
Njuba, said by phone from Kampala today.  The Ugandan shilling was little changed at 2,364 per dollar
as of 10:09 a.m. in Kampala today, compared with a close of
2,365 yesterday. It has weakened 15 percent over the past year.  Corruption  The top issue for voters remains corruption, the Synovate
survey showed.  Uganda  is 127th out of 178 nations on the Berlin-
based  Transparency International’s  corruption perceptions index.  Graft “is a concern for every new oil exporting country
and it is particularly a concern in Uganda which has a track
record of corruption and public misuse of funds,” Joseph Lake,
an analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit, said by e-mail on
Feb. 9.  Tullow said last year that it plans to partner with China
National Offshore Oil Corp. and  Total SA  once a tax dispute with
the government is resolved. Uganda has five production-sharing
contracts: one each with  Dominion Petroleum Ltd . and  Tower
Resources Plc , and three with Tullow, Bill Page, a partner at
 Deloitte & Touche LLP’s  Ugandan unit, said by e-mail on Feb. 11.  Confidential  “It is in the nature of these arrangements both in Uganda
and elsewhere that agreements remain confidential for commercial
reasons,” George Cazenove, a spokesman for Tullow, said by
phone from  London  on Feb. 11. “Nevertheless, we support any
country’s transparency initiatives and would happily support the
publication” of the accords.  Proposed legislation governing the  petroleum industry  in
East  Africa ’s third-largest economy, behind Kenya and Tanzania,
is awaiting approval by lawmakers. Museveni promised in his
 campaign  to create a Petroleum Fund to finance new roads, power
generation and improve education.  “Poor transparency around licensing and revenue management
remain major uncertainties for the oil sector, with plenty of
outstanding questions swirling around the oil legislation likely
to be signed into law within a few months,” Philippe de Pontet,
Africa director for Eurasia Group, said in an e-mail on Feb. 10.  Museveni expects crude output to accelerate economic growth
in Africa’s biggest grower of robusta coffee to 10 percent or
more, boosting  living standards  for the one in three who live on
$1.25 or less a day, according to the  World Bank . The  International Monetary Fund   forecasts  the economy will expand
6.1 percent in 2011, up from 5.8 percent in 2010.  Tension and Terrorism  Police have increased security measures following reports
that “terrorists” are preparing to carry out attacks, Major
General Kale Kayihura, the inspector general of police, said
Feb. 5. Kampala was hit by twin bombings claimed by the Somali
Islamic group al-Shabaab on July 11 that left 76 people dead and
injured dozens.  Al-Shabaab vowed further attacks on Uganda and Burundi,
which have contributed troops to the  African Union peacekeeping
force  in the Horn of Africa nation.  About 14 million people are registered to vote, according
to the website of the  Electoral Commission of Uganda . Polling
stations open at 7 a.m. local time and close at 5 p.m. Results
will be announced within 48 hours after voting centers close.  “While it appears increasingly likely that Museveni will
retain his political stranglehold, it is far less certain that
the election will pass off peacefully,” Lake said. “The risk
is that the opposition parties refuse to accept the results and
resort to violence, perhaps encouraged by the recent uprisings
in Tunisia and Egypt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 