-- 
Vietnam Power Outages Risk Harming Foreign Investment as Price Rises Loom

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-15T06:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/vietnam-power-outages-risk-harming-foreign-investment-as-price-rises-loom.html
Rolling electricity outages in  Vietnam  may deter foreign manufacturers from using the country
as an export base, prompting the government to raise prices to
boost investment in power plants.  Vietnam may increase the cost of average household
electricity by a record 15 percent next month, Vietnam News
reported yesterday. Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung said last
week factories and other major energy consumers must cut power
use by at least 1 percent, the state-run newspaper reported.  Severe power cuts “would make it very difficult for me to
explain to the board that we want to stay here and want to
develop the company here,” Boy Schallert, managing director of
Aalborg Industries A/S, said by telephone, adding that the
company has no imminent plans to leave the country. “We hope we
will be fine this year, but we fear the worst.”  Pricing is the biggest impediment to foreign investment in
power plants as state-run Electricity of Vietnam, known as EVN,
currently sells electricity at a loss, according to the  European
Chamber of Commerce in Vietnam . Blackouts are set to affect some
of the country’s 91 million people today, Vietnam News reported
Feb. 10.  Aalborg, a Copenhagen-based manufacturer of marine and
industrial boilers, was warned the country “would see heavier
power cuts this year because the situation is even worse,” said
Schallert, based in Hai Phong, a coastal city in northern
Vietnam.  ‘Serious Problem’  The electricity price that EVN offers to investors is about
a third of the average amount paid in Thailand and  Cambodia ,
making many energy projects commercially unviable,  Matthias
Duehn , the European chamber’s executive director, said by
telephone.  “If the energy price is not adjusted it becomes a serious
problem for Vietnam in the medium and long run,” he said. “The
power cuts affect Vietnam’s competitiveness and may direct
investment elsewhere.”  Record-low levels at Vietnam’s water reservoirs are hurting
hydropower production, EVN said in a statement today. The
company said last month it faces a shortfall of 3 billion
kilowatt-hours during this year’s dry season.  Vietnam depends on hydropower for about 37 percent of its
electricity, followed by gas at 36 percent and coal at 16
percent, according to  statistics  from the Association of the
Electricity Supply Industry of East Asia and the Western
Pacific.  The government is working to ensure sufficient power
supply, Hoang Quoc Vuong, deputy minister of Industry and Trade,
said by telephone yesterday.  ‘Bridge the Gap’    AES Corp ., the sixth-biggest U.S. electricity producer by
revenue according to Bloomberg data, last year signed a 25-year
pricing agreement for a 1,200 megawatt coal-fired power plant
after four years of negotiations. That deal may help others come
through more quickly because the government now has a template
as a point of reference, said Prabaljit Sarkar, AES’s business
development manager in Vietnam.  “State-run companies don’t have enough funds to meet the
entire demand for electricity,” he said by telephone. “They
need foreign investment to bridge the gap.”  The average household electricity bill is about 1,000 dong
(5 cents) per kilowatt hour, Vietnam News said. That compares
with 6.1 cents in  Indonesia  and 9.4 cents in  Thailand , according
to  data  from the Energy Information Administration.  Inflation Risk  Vietnam has struggled to control inflation as it seeks to
expand  Southeast Asia ’s sixth-biggest economy by as much as 8
percent per year until 2020. The Southeast Asian nation signed a
trade pact with the U.S. in 2001 and has relied on shipments to
the world’s largest economy to help maintain export growth.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam has raised  interest rates  only
once since the start of 2010, lagging behind counterparts from  Malaysia  to Thailand. Vietnam devalued the dong for the fourth
time in 15 months last week.  Dung has urged officials to both “stabilize” the economy
by tackling inflation and to support growth by taking steps to
lower lending rates at commercial banks.  While an electricity price rise of 15 percent would boost
inflation by a few tenths of a percentage point, it may lead to
more price increases following the dong devaluation and high
global commodity prices, said Matt Hildebrandt, an economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Singapore .  “You don’t want to get too many of these moves that
individually aren’t that large, but once they are taken all
together start to feed on themselves,” Hildebrandt said.  ‘Wrath of Populace’  Vietnam’s government last year announced plans to build as
many as 13 nuclear  power plants  with a capacity of 16,000
megawatts over the next two decades. That attracted interest
across the globe from companies including Moscow-based Rosatom
Corp. and  China ’s Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co.  Nuclear projects will run into the same pricing issues,
said Mark Hutchinson, a senior director at energy consulting
company IHS CERA, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . Any
politician that boosts electricity prices steeply is “not going
to be in office for very long,” he said.  “Some of these projects are going to get signed, but not
enough,” Hutchinson said. “They would rather suffer blackouts
that potentially hurt economic development than face the wrath
of the populace.”  Export Drop  Vietnam slipped one place on the list of top exporters to
the U.S. to 27th last year, the first fall since 2004, according
to figures posted on the website of the U.S. International Trade
Commission. The Southeast Asian nation signed a trade pact with
the U.S. in 2001 and has relied on expansion in shipments to the
world’s largest economy to help maintain export growth.  “Moving up the value chain involves investment in
infrastructure and education,” said Christian de Guzman, a
Singapore-based assistant vice president at Moody’s Investors
Service, which downgraded Vietnam’s credit rating in December.
“Vietnam is still relatively reliant on a low-cost, unskilled
labor model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  