-- 
Wall Street Bomb, Millions in Gold Fuel Historical Crime Novel

-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 
2011-02-14T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/wall-street-bomb-millions-in-gold-fuel-historical-crime-novel.html
Jed Rubenfeld, who attended
Princeton, Juilliard and Harvard before becoming a Yale law
professor, has dashed off his second historical crime novel in
five years -- all while sharing a domicile with  Tiger Mom  Amy
Chua, his fellow Yale law prof wife, and their two long-
suffering daughters.  I hear their cleaning lady snubbed the Mensa recruiter.  “ The Death Instinct”  opens on Sept. 16, 1920, on  Wall
Street , when a huge bomb exploded near the Stock Exchange and
J.P. Morgan’s bank, killing 38 and injuring more than 140. Like
Rubenfeld’s first novel, “ The Interpretation of Murder” 
(2006), this one features historical figures and events, with a
few liberties taken for the story’s sake.  The big departure from fact is revealing those behind the
bombing. The real case was never cracked.  The two books also are linked by featuring the same main
fictional characters: Jimmy Littlemore, a street-wise New York
police detective, and Dr. Stratham Younger, a Boston blue-blood
with a gift for violence.  Caught in the bomb’s mayhem that day, the two men take
different routes to the crime’s solution while submitting to
Rubenfeld’s entertaining knack for plot complications.  Among these are: X-rays in World War I, knife throwers on
the Empire State Building, J.P. Morgan’s role in Mexican debt,
ladies who painted radium on watch hands, $4 million in missing
Treasury gold, a mute boy treated by Freud, the peculiar
acoustics of Grand Central Terminal, and a former Austrian
nobleman turned cab driver named Oktavian Ferdinand Graf Kinsky
von Wchinitz und Tettau.  Chasing Leads  While Littlemore shuttles between  New York  and Washington
chasing leads, Younger gets involved in a beautiful
Frenchwoman’s search for her wartime Austrian lover.  Like the first book, which took off from Freud’s 1909 visit
to the U.S., “The Death Instinct” offers brisk prose, a steady
flow of action, some nice twists and a key role for Freud. Few
of the characters stray into a third dimension, yet they’re
drawn sharply enough for the genre.  The chief exception is Younger, a lapsed Freudian who is
psychologically the most complex player on Rubenfeld’s stage and
whose name could be a puzzling pun on Jung-er.  The book is longer than it should be, and for that I blame
the romantic subplot, which breeds digressions and trims
Younger’s time for buddy byplay with Littlemore, often amusing
and only occasionally silly:  “First we see a woman with no head on Wall Street, and now
we got one with two.”  ‘Good Crime Fiction’  The Agatha Christie wrap-up may seem too neat, and too cute
is one character’s saying: “‘Well perhaps all this will make
good crime fiction someday.’” Still, the solution presents a
clever weaving of fact and fiction.  Rubenfeld has plenty of room for another sequel, with
almost two decades before Freud dies in 1939. I look forward to
a little more Littlemore when he and Younger are older.  “The Death Instinct” is published by Riverhead (464
pages, $26.95). To order this book in  North America , click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 