-- 
Wall Street Employee Poaching to Increase in 2011, Survey Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-02-14T17:36:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/wall-street-will-probably-increase-employee-poaching-in-2011-survey-says.html
  Wall Street  firms will probably 
increase their poaching of talented employees in 2011, according
to a survey of recruiters and hiring managers.  About 57 percent of 200 respondents to the e-mailed survey
said they expect more aggressive attempts to lure away employees
from other firms this year, eFinancialCareers.com said today in
a  statement . Only 2 percent expect the practice to get less
aggressive, while 32 percent think it will be the same as last
year, according to the job-search website.    Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and the investment-banking units
of  Morgan Stanley  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . cut their
compensation pools in 2010. A survey from the site released last
month showed average bonuses among 1,009 U.S. respondents
dropped 5 percent from the previous year, and about 37 percent
who responded expect to change firms in 2011.  “This aggressive mindset will put more pressure on firms
who can’t afford to lose the talent they already have in
place,” Constance Melrose, managing director of
eFinancialCareers North America, said in the statement. “It’s
important for firms to assess their key employees and have plans
in place to retain, promote or prepare to hire.”  About 42 percent of the respondents to the latest survey
who work for financial firms said their company has conducted an
assessment of employees that are at risk of being lured away,
according to eFinancialCareers, a unit of  Dice Holdings Inc . The
survey was conducted from Jan. 31 to Feb. 7 and received
responses from financial-firm hiring managers and outside
recruiters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  