-- 
War Crimes Investigation Needed in Somali Capital, Civil Rights Group Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-02-14T15:37:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/war-crimes-investigation-needed-in-somali-capital-civil-rights-group-says.html
An international commission should
be set up to assess whether Somali government soldiers, African
Union peacekeepers and insurgents of al-Shabaab have committed  war crimes  in the capital, Mogadishu, New York-based Human
Rights Watch said.  “The world has for too long ignored the appalling cost to
civilians of the fighting in Mogadishu,” Rona Peligal, deputy
Africa director at Human Rights Watch, said in a  statement 
today. “An international commission of inquiry is urgently
needed to investigate war crimes committed in Somalia by all
sides.”  AU Peace and Security Commissioner Ramtame Lamamra and his
special assistant Braham Khellaf did not respond immediately to
e-mailed and telephone requests for a comment. Calls to AU
chairman Jean Ping’s spokesman, Noureddine Mezni, did not
connect.  The Horn of Africa country has been without a functioning
central administration since 1991, when ruler Mohamed Siad Barre
was ousted. Al-Shabaab, which the U.S. accuses of having links
to al-Qaeda, controls most of southern and central Somalia,
while the transitional government, led by President Sheikh
Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, holds parts of Mogadishu.  The conflict worsened in August and September when rebels
launched an offensive to bring down the government, leading to
“indiscriminate attacks of rocket and mortar fire by all
parties” and “tens of thousands of civilians” fleeing the
capital,  Human Rights Watch  said.  The peacekeepers and government forces regularly respond to
rocket attacks by insurgents with a “sustained bombardment” of
civilian areas, Human Rights Watch said, citing interviews with
refugees at a camp in Daadab in northern  Kenya .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Johannesburg at
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 