-- 
Westpac Reports $1.55 Billion First-Quarter Profit

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-02-15T05:30:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/westpac-posts-1-55-billion-first-quarter-profit-on-loan-margin.html
  Westpac Banking Corp .,  Australia ’s
second-biggest lender, said fiscal first-quarter profit was
boosted by wider margins on mortgage lending.  Unaudited cash earnings in the three months ended Dec. 31
was A$1.55 billion ($1.55 billion), the Sydney-based bank said
today, compared with the A$1.6 billion reported  a year earlier 
and an average of A$1.47 billion in the previous two quarters.
That beat the A$1.5 billion estimate of Morgan Stanley analysts
led by Richard Wiles in a Feb. 14 note.  Chief Executive Officer Gail Kelly has joined rivals
including  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  in raising borrowing
costs by more than the central bank, triggering a political
backlash, to offset higher funding costs and a slide in credit
demand. Commonwealth Bank and  National Australia Bank Ltd . last
week reported gains in earnings and declines in bad debts.  “This appears to be a good, and better than expected,
operating result with the company making more money due to
repricing of its loans and controlling costs by reducing staff
numbers,” said Rhett Kessler, who helps manage about $1 billion
at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Sydney. “I’d expect forecast
earnings upgrades on the back of this result.”  Westpac shares slipped 0.5 percent to A$24.31 at the 4:10
p.m. close of trade in Sydney, cutting this year’s gain to 9.5
percent. That’s compared to Commonwealth Bank’s 5 percent rise
in 2011 and  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd .’s 9.1
percent advance.  Kelly said Westpac is “very well placed” to benefit from
a rebound in  consumer confidence , which has been dented by
flooding in Queensland and Victoria, and this month’s Tropical
Cyclone Yasi.  Loan Demand  “The operating environment is positive, although the
recent natural disasters and subdued consumer sentiment are
likely to see businesses remaining cautious,” Kelly said in
today’s statement.  Commonwealth Bank said last week that first-half profit
rose 5 percent to a record as business and retail lending gained.
National Australia reported an 18 percent increase in first-
quarter unaudited cash earnings.  Demand for mortgages and business loans waned after the
central bank’s seven interest-rate increases from October 2009
to November 2010. Lending to businesses fell 0.3 percent in
December, the sixth straight month of declines, and mortgage
loan growth stalled at 0.5 percent, matching the weakest pace
since June, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said Jan. 31.  Westpac said lending grew 0.3 percent from September, with
growth in mortgages offset by institutions and large companies
that paid down debt.  Improved Margin  The bank’s net interest margin, a measure of profitability
of the bank’s lending business, widened from the fiscal second
half by 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.2 percent.  The impairment charge for bad debts fell in the quarter to
about A$280 million, Westpac said, without giving a year-earlier
figure.  Customer deposits rose A$8 billion in the quarter, helping
the bank buy back $2.1 billion in government-guaranteed bonds.  “Funding quality further improved with good growth in
customer deposits and a further A$7 billion in term wholesale
funding raised” in the quarter. The bank has raised A$9.4
billion in the fiscal year-to-date, Westpac said.  Australian banks faced public and political condemnation
for raising borrowing costs in November by more than the central
bank’s quarter percentage-point increase, prompting Treasurer  Wayne Swan  to introduce measures aimed at boosting competition
between lenders.  The bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of its ability
to absorb potential losses, rose to 9.2 percent from 9.1 percent
at the end of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  