-- 
Wheat Surges to a Record in China on Drought, Rising Imports

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-02-14T11:39:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/wheat-surges-to-record-in-china-as-drought-boosts-import-demand-outlook.html
Wheat advanced in Chicago and traded
at a record in Zhengzhou,  China , as demand increased and on
speculation a drought in the Asian nation, the biggest grower,
may damage plants.  Snowfalls in China’s major wheat-growing regions failed to
ease a drought and the dry spell is likely to affect crops, Chen
Lei, deputy director at the State Flood Control and Drought
Relief Headquarters, said Feb. 12.  Egypt , the biggest importer,
and  Bangladesh  announced tenders last week, and hedge funds
increased their bullish bets on wheat to the highest in more
than three years.  “Reports of possible substantial damage due to the multi-
month drought in the major growing areas in China are the main
reason for” rising prices, Carsten Fritsch, an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in a report today. “While the
situation could improve significantly now if enough snow or rain
falls soon, concerns are currently determining the picture.”  Wheat futures for May delivery surged 13.75 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $9.125 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at
10:24 a.m. London time. The price earlier touched $9.15 a
bushel, the highest level since Aug. 22, 2008. The September-
delivery contract on the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange jumped as
much as 3.7 percent to a record 3,110 yuan ($471) a metric ton.  Milling wheat futures for March traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris gained 3.25 euros, or 1.2 percent, to 276.25 a ton.  Getting Warmer  As drought threatens to damage the crop in China, also the
top user of the grain,  hedge funds  and money managers increased
in the week of Feb. 8 their net-long positions, or wagers on
rising prices, by 19 percent to 51,787 contracts, the highest
since August 2007, U.S. government data showed Feb. 11.  The dry spell is likely to continue to affect crops as the
weather is getting warmer and winter wheat needs large amounts
of water when turning green, Chen said in a statement on
Feb. 12.  About 42 percent of the total area planted with the grain
in China’s eight major producing provinces has been hit by the
dry spell that may last into the spring, Minister of Agriculture
Han Changfu said last week.  As of Feb. 10, the drought had affected 6.75 million
hectares (16.7 million acres) of crops, leaving 2.8 million
people and more than 2.5 million livestock short of drinking
water, the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported Feb. 12. Rain
on the North China Plain has been “substantially” below normal
since October, the United Nations Food & Agriculture
Organization said Feb. 8.  Weather Outlook  The weather in China’s growing regions “is one to watch,”  Michael Pitts , commodity sales director at  National Australia
Bank Ltd ., said by phone from Sydney. “The drought will be very
significant, if it continues,” he said, referring to its impact
on global harvests and wheat prices.  China’s wheat harvest may drop by 4 million tons this year,
Alex Bos, a London-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said
last week. Output may have fallen to 114.5 million tons at the
last harvest, from 115.1 million tons a year ago, according to
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Demand also may be boosting prices. Egypt agreed to buy
170,000 tons of Australian, U.S. and Canadian soft wheat in a
tender,  General Authority  for Supply Commodities Vice Chairman
Nomani Nomani said Feb. 11.  “There’s been a bit of tender business and also private
business through the Middle East,” Pitts said. “That’s
highlighting the mid-term demand and the U.S. is one of the most
competitive” suppliers, he said.  Soybeans for March delivery gained 0.2 percent to $14.19
bushel in  Chicago  while May-delivery corn increased 0.3 percent
to $7.195 a bushel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  