-- 
Zynga Is Said to Be in Talks to Raise Funds From T. Rowe Price, Fidelity

-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-02-15T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-14/zynga-said-to-be-in-talks-to-raise-cash-from-t-rowe-fidelity-investments.html
Zynga Inc., the biggest maker of
games on Facebook, is in talks to raise funding from T. Rowe
Price Group Inc. and  Fidelity Investments  at a valuation of
close to $10 billion, two people familiar with the matter said.  The deal could still fall through, said the people, who
declined to be named because the talks are private. The Wall
Street Journal reported yesterday that San Francisco-based Zynga
is talking to investors about raising $250 million at a
valuation of as much as $9 billion.  The rush to invest in the fastest-growing Web companies
ahead of their initial share sales is drawing institutional fund
managers that don’t traditionally back startups, as well as
venture capital firms more versed in new businesses. A large
investment in Zynga could give T. Rowe Price and Fidelity an
advantage when the startup decides to go public, said  Phil
Black , co-founder of venture capital firm True Ventures.  “They manage billions of dollars of capital and even in a
$100 million IPO their allocation of that probably isn’t
near what they would like to have,” said Black, who is based in  San Francisco . “A private transaction where they can buy a big
chunk of stock -- that’s a good move on their part.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. led an investment in Facebook Inc.
last month, valuing the social-networking site at $50 billion,
and Groupon Inc. raised cash at a $4.75 billion valuation, two
people with knowledge with the matter said. T. Rowe Price owns
stakes in Twitter Inc. and Angie’s List and, along with
Fidelity, previously invested in Slide Inc., which was bought by
Google Inc. in 2010.  Virtual-Goods Growth  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for Zynga, declined to comment,
as did Robert Benjamin, a spokesman for Baltimore-based T. Rowe
Price. Adam Banker, a spokesman for Boston-based Fidelity,
declined to comment.  Zynga and the investors may close a deal in the next two
months, the people with knowledge of the talks said.  Zynga’s two most-popular games, “CityVille” and
“FarmVille,” have 96.3 million and 51.3 million monthly active
users, respectively, according to researcher AppData.com.
Founded in 2007 by Mark Pincus, the company lets users play its
games for free and makes money from purchases of virtual goods.  Zynga is valued at $6.2 billion on secondary exchange
 SharesPost Inc. , equal to the Nasdaq Stock Market value of  Electronic Arts Inc ., the second-largest game publisher by
sales. Zynga is capitalizing on the growth of the virtual goods
market, which may jump to $4 billion in the U.S. in 2014 from
$2.2 billion this year, according to Atul Bagga, an analyst at
ThinkEquity LLC in San Francisco.  Russia’s Digital Sky Technologies led a $180 million
investment in Zynga in December 2009. That financing round also
included Tiger Global Management LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund that later invested in LinkedIn Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  