-- Abu Dhabi Government ‘Considering’ Dollar Bond Offering in 2013
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-11-01T12:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/abu-dhabi-government-considering-dollar-bond-offering-in-2013.html
Abu Dhabi , the richest of the seven
sheikhdoms in the United Arab Emirates, is considering a dollar
debt sale in 2013, according to its Department of Finance.  “There might be some plans for next year, but this is not
imminent,” Saeed Almazrouei, head of debt management at the
emirate’s finance department said in a telephone interview
today. We are “considering an issuance in dollars. There is no
plan to sell dollar debt this year,” he said.  The emirate is planning a non-deal roadshow to Beijing,
 Hong Kong  and Singapore starting on Nov. 12, Almazrouei said.
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  has been hired to arrange the meetings, he
said. Abu Dhabi, which hasn’t sold dollar debt since 2009, plans
to meet investors in  Europe  before the year-end, he said. Banks
have not been mandated to set up meetings in Europe, he said.
The yield on its 6.75 percent bonds due April 2019 fell 114
basis points this year to 2.15 percent at 3:48 p.m. in the
emirate.  Abu Dhabi, holder of about 6 percent of the world’s proven
oil reserves, is home to one of the world’s richest sovereign
wealth funds and has Standard & Poor’s third-highest investment
grade. The government forecasts economic growth of 3.9 percent
this year, compared with 6.8 percent in 2011, as demand for oil
weakens.  “The last roadshow we did was in April or May, which was
in the U.S,” he said, adding that  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  was
hired to set up meetings in New York, Boston,  San Francisco  and
Los Angeles. The government holds periodic roadshows to update
current and potential bond investors on the emirate’s economic
and fiscal data, and about recent events in the Middle East, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  