-- Mahindra Bucks Slowing Car Sales With New SUVs, Holidays
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-11-02T10:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/mahindra-bucks-slowing-car-sales-with-new-suvs-holidays.html
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) ,  India ’s
largest maker of sport-utility vehicles, is betting on new
models and giveaways such as holidays to maintain its market
position and buck a slowdown in car sales.  Industrywide SUV sales growth in India may accelerate to 50
percent in the year ending March 31, said  Pawan Goenka ,
president of the automotive and farm equipment division at the
Mumbai-based company, after expanding 17 percent in the previous
year. The  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  estimates
domestic car sales to increase by as little as 1 percent this
fiscal year.  Mahindra has introduced two new SUV models in the past two
months to widen its lead over rivals including  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) 
and take advantage of a surge in demand for bigger passenger
vehicles run on subsidized diesel. The company’s service quality
improved the most among its peers this year, according to J.D.
Power  Asia  Pacific, helping attract customers.  “The utility vehicle space is growing at a fast pace and
Mahindra being a veteran in the field has used innovative
products to generate sales,” said Rikesh Parikh, vice president
of equities at Motilal Oswal Securities Ltd. in Mumbai.
“Mahindra has been able to create interest in their products.”  SUV Demand  Industrywide sales of SUVs have climbed 56 percent in the
six months ended Sept. 30, compared with a 0.3 percent decline
in car deliveries, according to the automakers’ association.
Mahindra’s sales of passenger vehicles including SUVs rose 31
percent to 156,082 units in the seven months through Oct. 31,
the company said yesterday.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest carmaker by
volume, said yesterday domestic passenger vehicle sales rose 8.5
percent in the same period.  Some Indians are choosing SUVs over sedans and hatchbacks
as family vehicles because their higher ground clearance allows
for use on pot-holed roads both in the city and rural areas.  The growth in demand for SUVs over the past few years has
attracted a number of overseas companies from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
to Renault SA to unveil models in the segment. Renault, which
started selling its Duster SUV in August, said yesterday it sold
5,406 units of the model last month.  Toyota introduced refreshed version of its Fortuner earlier
this year, while Tata Motors last month started selling a new
version of its Safari Storme SUV.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  plans to
introduce the EcoSport compact SUV next year.  ‘Main Challenge’  The key test for Mahindra will be its ability to develop
products in the next few years, according to Ashvin Chotai,
London-based managing director at Intelligence Automotive Asia,
said by phone.  “The main challenge is to see how much more growth they
can get in the future and what will be the next growth driver,”
said Chotai. “There isn’t that much competition in the SUV
segment, so there will be rising competition.”  In September, the company unveiled the Quanto, a compact
SUV priced at 582,000 rupees ($10,829) targeting hatchback and
sedan customers. Maruti’s diesel-engined DZire sedan starts at
634,930 rupees, while the gasoline-powered DZire costs 517,798
rupees.  Mahindra, which last month started selling the Rexton SUV,
aims to sell 500 units a month of the model, Goenka said on a
conference call with investors on Oct. 25. This is the first
model from  Ssangyong Motor Co. (003620) , which it acquired last year. The
two companies will reveal the first jointly developed platform
by 2015, Goenka had said on May 31.  The company has added features such as voice command
operation of some functions and started a Purple Club for its
XUV500 and Rexton customers offering holidays, special services
such as a chauffeur on demand, and round-the-clock roadside
assistance.  ‘Value for Money’  “Mahindra is gaining from customers upgrading from
hatchbacks and small cars for its Quanto and XUV500, as well as
from rural demand for its UVs such as the Bolero,” said Ronak Sarda, an analyst with MSFL Institutional Research in Mumbai.
“It has positioned products well at a value for money
proposition, and with poor roads, many Indians are turning to
UVs for family vehicles.”  Mahindra, excluding units, reported  second-quarter profit 
rose 22 percent to 9.02 billion rupees, which beat analysts’
estimates. Sales increased 32 percent to 96.6 billion rupees.  Maruti’s  profit  declined 5.4 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 after a deadly labor riot led to a monthlong
production halt at one of its factories. Tata Motors will report
earnings Nov. 7.  Mahindra rose 2 percent to a record 917.45 rupees at the
close in Mumbai. The stock has jumped 28 percent in the past six
months making it the  best performer  in the 10-company BSE Auto
Index. Maruti, a unit of  Japan ’s Suzuki Motor Corp., has gained
10 percent in the period, while Tata Motors, the owner of Jaguar
and Land Rover marques, has slumped 11 percent.  Waiting Period  Mahindra introduced its XUV500 model last year. It had a
waiting list of three months on the XUV500 and two months on the
Quanto, Goenka said on a call with investors on Oct. 25. The
company had also begun exporting the XUV500 to  South Africa ,
Australia and  Italy , he said.  Bookings for the XUV500 had to be closed twice after the
company was swamped with orders. Priced between 1.1 million
rupees and 1.36 million rupees, the XUV500 initially received
8,000 orders in 10 days, and led Mahindra to increase production
to 5,000 a month, from the initial 3,000 unit capacity it had
set up.  “The Indian consumer is now realizing the versatility of
an utility vehicle that offers great comfort, style and fuel
efficiency,” said Goenka. “Mahindra has been the leader of the
utility vehicle pack and our endeavor will be to defend our
turf.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  