-- AIG Cuts Wall Street Reliance With Real Estate: Mortgages
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-11-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/aig-cuts-wall-street-reliance-with-real-estate-mortgages.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG)  is
increasing direct investment in real estate to reduce its
reliance on Wall Street as record-low interest rates pressure
investment income.  “It’s making sure that we are taking control of the risks
we’re going to put on our books, and we can’t rely on the public
markets,” including commercial mortgage-backed securities,
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said at a conference
this week in  Chicago . “We have to do direct investment.”  The insurer boosted real estate bets this year by buying
back mortgage bonds assumed by the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York in the insurer’s 2008 bailout. Benmosche, the CEO since
2009, is increasing direct lending, investments in rental
properties and home loans, he said Oct. 29 at trade group
Limra’s annual conference. New York-based AIG was rescued after
mortgage-related losses and is working to attract private
capital to replace the government’s remaining 16 percent stake.  AIG needs to deploy about $50 billion into assets such as
real estate that can generate more “alpha,” an above-market
return earned by the skill of its money managers, said
Benmosche.  The insurer, scheduled to report third-quarter results
today, is seeking ways to generate yield as the Federal Reserve
keeps interest rates near record lows to stoke growth in the
world’s largest economy. That’s driven down rates on debt from
Treasuries to high-yield corporate bonds and raised investor
concern that underwriting standards in some markets including
CMBS are slipping.  CMBS Yield  The extra yield investors demand to own top-ranked CMBS
rather than Treasuries fell to 1.01 percentage points last week,
the lowest in at least four years, and down from 2.47 percentage
points on Jan. 3. Holders get paid about 2.6 percentage points
to buy newly issued commercial mortgage bonds maturing in 10
years, compared with as much as 4 percent to make the loans
themselves, according to Deutsche Bank AG data.  Skilled investors can boost returns on real estate
investments by betting on individual properties they think will
excel, rather than paying a fee for a bundle of loans of varying
quality, said Jim Leonard, an analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   Investors are trying “to pick off single properties,”
which also allows them to understand the risk they’re taking,
Leonard said.  Deteriorating Standards  Underwriting standards are deteriorating as lenders compete
for new loans amid a surge in sales, increasing the risk within
higher-yielding portions of new commercial-mortgage bond sales,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts said in a report last
month. Banks have arranged $29.4 billion in bond offerings
linked to skyscrapers, shopping malls and hotels this year, up
from $28 billion in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales peaked at $232 billion in 2007.  The insurer may be trading the liquidity of mortgage-backed
bonds for the higher yield available from direct investing, said
Paul Newsome, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP. The
strategy may also help diversify the insurer’s investment and
guard it against a downturn in the market for mortgage-backed
securities.  “You can’t sell the building as easily as you can sell a
mortgage-backed security,” he said by phone. “But your ability
to hold it on your books and hold on through a crisis may
actually be better.”  Warren Buffett  has said liquidity shouldn’t be sacrificed
to offset low bond yields at his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   ‘Ample Liquidity’  “The need for ample liquidity occupies center stage and
will never be slighted, however inadequate rates may be,”
Buffett wrote in his  annual letter  to shareholders.  In the current interest-rate environment, there aren’t many
good ways of boosting investment returns once risk is taken into
account, Jay Fishman, CEO of  Travelers Cos. (TRV)  said in September.  “People say, ‘Where are you going for yield?’ and the
answer is ‘Nowhere,’” Fishman said at a conference. “If we
thought that there was a place where, on a risk-adjusted basis,
yield was better than where we are today, we would move in that
direction. But we don’t see it, we don’t perceive that there is
such a place.”  AIG has gained 51 percent this year, the best return among
the 22 companies on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Insurance Index. (S5INSU) 
Travelers, based in New York, has advanced 20 percent and
Berkshire is up 13 percent. Still, AIG has lost about 96 percent
since the end of 2007.  Beyond its bond holdings and mortgages, AIG’s real estate
investments were $2.92 billion as of June 30, a 5.1 percent
increase from six months earlier, according to a filing.  Williamsburg Project  Investments include providing equity to a 510-unit rental
 project  in Williamsburg,  Brooklyn , on the waterfront overlooking
the East River across from  Manhattan , where developers broke
ground in August.  The insurer’s portfolio stood at $413 billion, with about
71 percent invested in bonds. AIG also held $13.7 billion of
commercial mortgages on June 30, up from $13.3 billion a year
earlier.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer,  originated 
more than $11 billion in commercial mortgages last year, up from
more than $8 billion in 2010. The New York-based company had
$8.5 billion of real estate and real estate joint ventures and
$55.8 billion of mortgage loans, mostly on commercial property,
in its  investment portfolio  of more than $500 billion as of June
30.  AIG bought $7.1 billion of mortgage bonds from the Maiden
Lane III vehicle created by the New York Fed to aid in its
rescue, the insurer said in August. The Fed wound down the
vehicle, its last piece of AIG’s $182.3 billion bailout, later
that month.  Bailout Cost  The U.S. Treasury Department still  owns  16 percent of the
insurer, down from as much as 92 percent acquired in the rescue.
It sold $20.7 billion of shares in September, recouping the
taxpayers’ bailout cost and cutting its stake from 53 percent.  AIG can draw on its experience backing home loans as it
evaluates which ones to buy, Benmosche said. Mortgage insurer
United Guaranty, acquired by AIG in 1981, has information that
can help the company predict which borrowers are most reliable.  “The policies of the Fed are telling us that we’re going
to see low interest rates for a long period of time, and we’re
going to have to figure out how to manufacture our own yields,”
Benmosche said. “We have to accept long-term investing, like we
did in the good old days. That means real estate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut@bloomberg.net . 