-- AIG Posts $1.86 Billion Profit on Investments, AIA Gain
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-11-01T22:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/aig-posts-1-86-billion-profit-as-investments-aia-boost-results.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that counts the U.S. as its largest  shareholder ,
posted a fourth straight profit as gains in the value of its  AIA
Group Ltd. (1299)  stake fueled investment results.  Third-quarter  net income  was $1.86 billion, or $1.13 a
share, compared with a loss of $3.99 billion, or $2.10, a year
earlier, when investments declined. Operating profit, which
excludes some investing results, was $1 a share, beating the
 average estimate  of 87 cents in a Bloomberg survey of 20
analysts.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is seeking to
improve results at the New York-based company’s units that sell
life insurance and property-casualty coverage to attract private
shareholders as the U.S. winds down a rescue that began in 2008
and swelled to $182.3 billion. The Treasury Department sold
$20.7 billion of its AIG shares in September, cuttings its stake
to 16 percent from a majority.  “The government ownership has been a real overhang for the
company,” Josh Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., said before results were announced. “There weren’t that
many investors involved, and now it’s sort of the opposite, so
this is going to be the first quarterly call for a lot of
people.” The company is scheduled to discuss results at a
conference call at 8 a.m. New York time tomorrow.  Mortgage Bonds  The U.S. recouped the cost of rescuing AIG in September’s
share sale and recorded a profit for taxpayers. The gain was
generated by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which wound
down its portion of AIG’s bailout in August by selling mortgage
bonds it assumed in the rescue. Treasury can again sell shares
when a lockup ends Nov. 9.  Chartis, the property-casualty unit led by CEO Peter Hancock, posted a pretax profit of $949 million, compared with
$551 million a year earlier, as investment income climbed. The
global property-casualty insurer spent $1.05 on claims and
expenses for every premium dollar it collected, compared with
spending $1.06 a year earlier. Catastrophe losses narrowed from
a year earlier when Hurricane Irene lashed the U.S. East Coast.  Premium revenue at Chartis, the insurer of commercial
property, corporate boards, and airplanes, fell about 3.2
percent to $8.75 billion, from $9.04 billion a year earlier.
Hancock is working to raise prices and shun less attractive
business, Stirling said.  Life Insurance  AIG slipped 45 cents to $34.75 at 5:38 p.m. in extended
trading. The company, which reported results after the close of
regular trading,  gained  52 percent this year on the New York
Stock Exchange, the best performance among 22 companies in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Insurance Index. (S5INSU)  The stock has dropped 96
percent since the end of 2007.  AIG’s U.S. life insurance and retirement division, led by
CEO Jay Wintrob, reported pretax profit of $889 million,
compared with $346 million a year earlier, as capital gains
jumped. Premiums, deposits and other considerations fell about
19 percent to $4.79 billion from $5.88 billion a year earlier as
low interest rates pressured sales of fixed-annuity and group-
deposit products.  AIG said its core insurance units will resume using the AIG
name on Nov. 11, as Benmosche works to revive a brand his
predecessor  Edward Liddy  called “wounded and disgraced,” in
2009. Benmosche also introduced a new logo and agreed to sponsor
New Zealand rugby teams including the All Blacks last month.  Book Value  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities,
increased to $68.87 a share as of Sept. 30 from $60.58 three
months earlier. The insurer repurchased $8 billion of its shares
from the U.S. in the third quarter.  AIG recorded gains of $330 million related to the value of
mortgage bonds that were held by the Fed vehicle created to help
rescue the company. The firm’s stake in AIA added $527 million
to profit. A year earlier, the insurer recorded a loss of about
$2.3 billion tied to AIA’s value and the Fed vehicle lost $931
million.  So-called alternative investments generated gains of $276
million, compared with a  $180 million  profit a year earlier, AIG
said in a supplemental filing. Income from private equity fell
by 53 percent to $174 million from $372 million a year earlier.
Hedge funds added $102 million, compared with a loss of $192
million a year earlier.  AIG had $19.3 billion of alternative investments as of
Sept. 30, little changed from June 30. Returns for hedge fund
and private equity investments are reported on a one month and
one-quarter lag.  Real Estate  Benmosche said this week that AIG is seeking to invest
directly in real estate to boost returns. The insurer’s
investment real estate holdings climbed to $3.04 billion as of
Sept. 30 from $2.92 billion three months earlier.  Net unrealized gains on bonds available for sale widened to
$23.2 billion from $18.2 billion three months earlier, led by
corporate debt and residential mortgage-backed securities. The
figures, reflecting market fluctuations that aren’t counted
toward earnings, are monitored by investors and rating firms as
a gauge of financial strength.  International Lease Finance Corp., AIG’s plane-leasing
business, reported pretax profit of $40 million, compared with a
loss of $1.33 billion a year earlier when the firm took $1.5
billion of charges related to aircraft impairments. Revenue rose
2.4 percent to $1.15 billion. AIG has said it is seeking to sell
part of the unit in an initial public offering.  Mortgage Insurance  AIG’s mortgage insurer, United Guaranty, reported operating
profit of $3 million, compared with a loss of $98 million a year
earlier. Mortgage insurers cover losses when homeowners default
and foreclosures fail to recoup costs.  AIA, the Hong Kong-based insurer part-owned by AIG, gained
9.1 percent during the quarter. AIG sold most of AIA in a 2010
initial public offering to raise funds to help repay its U.S.
rescue. The insurer sold another $2 billion in September,
cutting its stake to about 14 percent.  AIG said last month it reached the final stage of review to
be designated a systemically important financial institution,
which could lead to regulation by the Fed and tighter capital
rules.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-biggest U.S. life
insurer, also is in the final review step.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, is regulated
by the Fed as a bank-holding company and is seeking to sell
deposits to limit the oversight.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  