-- Making of Santa Is Big Business as Schools Teach Reindeer Skills
-- B y   S u s a n   B e r f i e l d   a n d   D a v i d   R o c k s
-- 2012-11-01T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/making-of-santa-is-big-business-as-schools-teach-reindeer-skills.html
If you think any chubby guy with a
beard who looks good in red can be a mall  Santa Claus , Susen
Mesco will soon set you straight.  “You can’t play Santa,” says Mesco, director of the
Professional Santa Claus School in Denver. “You have to become
Santa. We spend the first three hours getting the men into the
mind-set.”  Department stores began hiring inhouse Santas in the 1860s,
and the country’s first Santa Claus school opened in 1937. Now
there are at least half a dozen Santa schools as well as Santa
conventions, workshops, and festivals where people can to learn
to play the big guy.  Mesco, who also runs an event-planning company, started her
school in 1983. This year about 30 would-be St. Nicks signed up
for the five-day, $850 program around Labor Day, Bloomberg
Businessweek  reports  in its Nov. 5 issue  “We used to get truck drivers and bartenders and
construction workers who were off-season,” she says. “Now
we’re getting stockbrokers, realtors, and accountants.”  The men learn how to market themselves, set prices, and
review contracts. There’s a five-hour session with a child
psychologist and meetings with a make-up artist, a stylist, and
a nutritionist. And, yes, they’re trained to work with reindeer.
“The animals can be extremely dangerous,” says Mesco.  When Tom Valent attended the  Charles W. Howard Santa School 
in Midland,  Michigan , about 130 miles northwest of  Detroit , in
1976, he was one of just three students. Today, as “dean” of
the three-day program offered in October, Valent attracted 100
aspiring Santas and 10 Mrs. Clauses.  Real Beards  For $390, the nonprofit offers students lessons in reindeer
etiquette, beard curling (90 percent of the men are naturally
bearded), the history and legend of Santa, and accounting and
marketing.  “Some are coming because they’re unemployed. I don’t ask
about it,” says Valent, who runs a construction company when
he’s not teaching the finer points of Santa-speak. “We don’t
talk about wages, but returning students help the new ones with
jobs.”  Mall Santas earn between $15 and $35 an hour and work 10 to
12 hours a day, Mesco says. The season can begin right after
Halloween, and the only day off is Thanksgiving.  “Their income partly depends on their stamina,” she says.
And tips? “It’s very appropriate to tip Santa,” Mesco says.
(Though it’s probably not appropriate to do it in front of
junior.)  26,000 Kids  Rick Hyman first attended the Howard Santa School in 2003
after retiring from a job in security in the foreign service.
He’d already been a volunteer Santa for three decades. Hyman,
who’s 66 and a biker, is booked for the season at a Bass Pro
shop near Atlanta. Last year he met with 26,000 kids.  “Most Santas will make between $8,000 and $12,000 a
season,” he says. “I make more. It boils down to experience.”  While the real Santa might shudder, the main reason there
are so many Santa schools is that mall owners realize -- and
don’t like to talk about -- how much a guy with a big bottom can
pad the bottom line.  Simon Property Group (SPG) , the Indianapolis-based mall owner,
arranges corporate sponsorships of the holiday experience;
childrens’ apparel seller Gymboree and TV network  ABC Family (DIS)  are
among sponsors this year. So is a business called ScentSicles,
which is supplying a Douglas fir scent for the sets where kids
meet Santa.  There’s another business opportunity: photos with Kris
Kringle. Simon’s Santa supplier, Noerr Programs, will offer
photos for $20 to $50 at 180 of its malls around the country.  “If anything, the harder economic times make it more
important to have Santa,” says Les Morris, a Simon spokesman.  Mall Photos  “Maybe the family doesn’t have as much money to spend but
they can go to the mall and get photos with Santa and talk to
Santa.”  This year, 146 Simon malls will also offer a night where
animal lovers can have photos taken of their pets with Santa.  “Of course, the more time people spend in the mall, the
more likely they’ll shop and eat there,” says Morris.  Glimcher Realty Trust (GRT) , which owns 24 malls in 15 states,
uses a company called Worldwide Photography, whose Santas --like
 New York  Yankees infielders -- have multiyear contracts. They
send one or two Santas (never to be seen at the same time) to
each mall. This year, Glimcher will offer virtual queuing so
families who pay for photos don’t have to wait in line. They can
shop and be notified via cell phone when their turn is close.  “It’s for those who are getting their photo taken,” says
Jessi Fausett, director of marketing at Glimcher.  Career Santas  Noerr, the Arvada, Colorado-based company that works with
Simon, conducts its own Santa University each summer and is
employing 265 Santas this holiday season, says spokeswoman Ruth
Rosenquist.  “Many of our Santas have been with us for a long time. You
don’t just decide you want to be Santa one year on a whim,” she
says. “You have to have the heart and the appearance.”  That is, the beard, though not necessarily the girth. At
Noerr’s four-day school, held for the past five years in July
for men already employed by the company, Santas learn how to
bleach their beards without losing any hair, how to talk to
children and the press, and how to pose with pets.  Noerr is also working to make Santa a year-round franchise
with its Be Merry Santa program. This includes a  Facebook (FB)  page
where people can talk to Santa anytime and a website for kids
that offers the chance to earn badges.  “They can get a badge for sharing, caring, making a
healthy choice,” says Rosenquist. At the end of the year, the
kids bring their badges to Santa for congratulations and entry
into a sweepstakes contest.  Santa may be a business, but Mesco says some things are
unacceptable. Santa is in public relations, not sales, she says.  “At the most, I’ll offer to put together a coupon
booklet,” Mesco says. “When we hand the kids a candy cane, Mom
gets a coupon booklet. That way Santa doesn’t have to say, ‘Go
to  Macy’s. (M) ’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Berfield in New York at 
 sberfield@bloomberg.net ;
David Rocks in Berlin at 
 drocks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ellis at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net  