-- Alt-J Wins 2012 U.K. Mercury Prize, Beating Plan B, Jessie Ware
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-11-02T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/alt-j-wins-2012-u-k-mercury-prize-beating-plan-b-jessie-ware.html
The group Alt-J won the U.K.’s 2012
 Barclaycard Mercury Prize  last night, beating acts such as Plan
B and Jessie Ware.  The shortlist for the year’s best British or Irish album
again omitted commercially successful names such as Kate Bush,
Coldplay, Emeli Sande and Florence & the Machine in favor of
newer or less-well-known musicians.  The award pits different genres against one another,
ranging from folk and jazz to hard rock and classical. The
winner receives 20,000 pounds ($32,250), although the boost from
album sales can be worth much more.  This year’s shortlist of 12 was one of the most obscure in
the prize’s 20-year history. The result was announced at a
ceremony and dinner for record company executives and
journalists at the Roundhouse in Camden,  London .  Alt-J, which won for “An Awesome Wave,” makes electronic
music such as the single “Breezeblocks.” Ben Drew, better
known as Plan B, has an album soundtracking his film “Ill
Manors” about urban crime and unrest. Jessie Ware was praised
by the judges in a statement for her “album of sensuous and
emotive pop.”  Among acts not included: singer-songwriter Lettie,  Paul Weller , Carter Tutti Void, Hot Chip, the Horrors, Dexys and
Bombay Bicycle Club. This year again, there were no classical
albums on the shortlist.  P.J. Harvey won last year’s prize, beating other artists
including Adele, Elbow and  Anna Calvi . The 12 shortlisted albums
in 2011 sold an additional 400,000 copies between the list being
announced in July last year and the ceremony, the U.K. Official
Charts Co. said in an e-mail.  Cutting-Edge  The Mercury focuses on musical quality and doesn’t take
into account sales, media profile or live performances,
according to a statement by the judges. Commercial acts such as
Adele,  Amy Winehouse  and Robbie Williams have often lost out to
cutting-edge performers such as Harvey.  In 2010, London band the xx triumphed with its debut CD of
understated indie rock. Its new album wasn’t on the 2012 list.
There were surprise winners in 2009 (Speech Debelle), 2008
(Elbow) and 2007 (Klaxons).  Blur and Pulp were beaten by the so-hip-it-hurts M People
in 1994,  Robbie Williams  by too-cool-for-school Gomez in 1998.
Both victors faltered after. The mercurial award is often seen
as an albatross that also finished off Roni Size & Reprazent,
Speech Debelle and Talvin Singh.  The Mercury organizers have faced calls for more openness
about the judging (the panel is made up of musicians, executives
and writers whose names aren’t disclosed), selection process and
financial involvement of  record companies . The prize was first
established by the British Phonographic Industry in 1992.  Information:  http://www.mercuryprize.com/   Muse highlights include Zinta Lundborg’s  New York  weekend
and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
 Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 