-- American Hospital Association Sues U.S. Over Medicare
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-11-01T20:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/american-hospital-association-sues-u-s-over-unpaid-medicare.html
The American Hospital Association
sued the U.S. government for allegedly refusing to pay for
“hundreds of millions of dollars” of medically necessary care
as required under the Medicare Act.  Private auditors used by the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services are revoking payments made for in-patient
treatment under one section of Medicare, even as that treatment
qualifies as necessary under a different part of the act, the
organization said in a complaint filed today in  Washington .  “Federal law requires Medicare to reimburse hospitals for
reasonable and medically necessary services,” according to the
complaint. The auditors who took the payments back “disagreed
only with the setting in which the care was provided.”  The Washington-based organization,  which claims  a
membership of almost 5,000 hospitals and health-care systems and
about 40,000 individuals, seeks a court order declaring the
practice invalid. It violates the federal Medicare Act and the
audit determinations are arbitrary, the group said.  AHA also wants an order that the hospitals be paid in full.  Charles S. Miller, a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to comment on the allegations,  Created in 1965, Medicare provides health insurance to
Americans who are at least 65 years in age or have collected
Social Security for at least two years, as well as the disabled
and people with renal disease. Part A covers hospitalization
while Part B pertains to doctors’ services and associated costs
for diagnostic testing, laboratory work and equipment.  Biggest Buyer  With more than 47 million enrollees, the program is the
biggest U.S. buyer of managed care and accounts for 13 percent
of the  federal budget , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Medicare billing determinations targeted by the
complaint arise from work done by Recovery Audit Contractors
employed by the HHS Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services,
also known as CMS.  After auditors revoked payments under Part A for disallowed
in-patient services, CMS refused to restore the money under Part
B, according to the group’s complaint.  “Prolonged uncertainty about whether Medicare will
ultimately pay for the services previously provided wreaks havoc
on hospital financial planning,” the association alleged.  Joining as plaintiffs in the case are Missouri Baptist
Sullivan Hospital in Sullivan, Missouri; Munson Medical Center
in Traverse City, Michigan; Lancaster General Hospital in
Lancaster, Pennsylvania; and South Bend, Indiana-based Trinity
Health Corp.  The case is American Hospital Association v. Sebelius, 12-
cv-1770, U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  