-- Americans on Move Buoying Economy With Mobility Rebound
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-11-01T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/americans-on-move-buoying-economy-with-mobility-rebound.html
Danielle Anderson landed a promotion
in June that required her to move from southern California to
Houston, where she bought a $280,000 townhouse near downtown.
Since then, the 24-year-old sales and marketing manager has
spent $8,000 on furnishings, hooked up  cable television  and
hired a gardener.  The number of Americans moving has started to increase from
a record low, promising a lift to the labor-market recovery as
well as housing and consumer spending. An estimated 12 percent
of U.S. residents moved in the year ended March 2012, up from a
63-year low of 11.6 percent the prior year, according to an
analysis of unpublished Census Bureau data by the Population
Reference Bureau, a Washington-based research organization.
About 1.7 percent moved from one state to another, the most in
five years, the data show.  Mobility adds flexibility to the labor market, allowing
employers to fill positions more easily when skills may be in
short supply. A lack of migration the past few years helps to
explain why 3.6 million jobs were  unfilled  in August -- 719,000
more than in January 2009 when unemployment last matched
September’s 7.8 percent, Labor Department data show.  “Increased mobility will facilitate a quicker improvement
in the job market, as the unemployed and underemployed can more
easily move to where the jobs are,” said  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
Pennsylvania. “I would expect mobility to steadily improve
going forward as job opportunities and house prices increase.”  ‘Encouraging Trend’   Migration  is an “encouraging trend” for the labor
market, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  told reporters Oct. 15 after a speech. It has been a
historical strength for the U.S. versus Europe, where moves are
hampered by language differences, Bullard said.  “Boom areas” that have benefited from energy production,
including Texas and North Dakota, are drawing more job hunters,
he added.  Increased hiring and mobility support each other, said
Wells Fargo Securities LLC senior economist  Mark Vitner  in
Charlotte,  North Carolina . He forecasts “both job growth and
mobility increasing modestly over the next five years, bringing
us back to prevailing levels” that existed in 2007 by 2016 or
2017.  The aging of the  U.S. population  hinders a return to the
1960s when as much as 20 percent of the population moved in some
years, according to demographer Mark Mather, associate vice
president for domestic programs, at the  population bureau .  Younger People  People ages 25 to 29 are twice as likely to move as the
total population. Yet even younger people aren’t as mobile as
previous generations because the labor market is impaired: About
25 percent of people in this age group moved last year, down
from 30 percent in 2001, Mather said.  Still, there are signs that more Americans are changing
locations. Shipments handled by moving companies rose 1.5
percent in the first half of 2012 after a 1 percent gain in
2011, according to the American Moving & Storage Association in
Alexandria, Virginia. Volume fell by 10 percent in 2008 and 15
percent in 2009. “There is a pent-up demand” for moves, which
is “obviously closely tied to housing,” organization spokesman
John Bisney said.  Kristen Keese, 22, a marketing graduate from the  University
of South Florida  in Tampa, moved to New York City to take a job
as a research analyst for  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN)  in September after
a job search that included the Tampa area, Chicago, Los Angeles
and New York.  ‘Move Anywhere’  “The fact I was willing to move anywhere for a company I
wanted to work for or a job I loved, I think that is something a
lot of companies are attracted to,” she said. “I am single. I
am flexible. I am just getting into the corporate world.”  A rise in  home prices  this year for the first time since
2006 is allowing more homeowners to sell and move, said  Brad Hunter , chief economist in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, for
Metrostudy, a Houston-based company that tracks housing starts.
About 1.3 million borrowers saw the value of their homes exceed
their mortgages in the first half of the year, becoming “above
water,” according to Santa Ana, California-based data provider
 CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)   Housing starts  in the U.S. surged 15 percent in September
to the highest level in four years, Commerce Department figures
showed Oct. 17.  Mobility is “clearly good news for the housing industry
and Realtors,” said  Charles Lieberman , chief investment officer
with Advisors Capital Management LLC in Hasbrouck Heights, New
Jersey. “Homeowners invariably spend much more money on
improvements, decorating and other such stuff after they move.”  Homebuilders Profit  Homebuilders probably will profit, as well as  Home Depot
Inc. (HD) , the largest seller of home-improvement products, and  Masco
Corp. (MAS) , the largest maker of faucets and kitchen cabinets, he
said.  Texas had eight of the 15 fastest  growing  large cities
between April 1, 2010, and July 1, 2011, with Denver, New
Orleans and Tampa also among the population leaders, according
to Census figures.  San Antonio and Austin “are arguably two of the best real-
estate markets in the country,” Los Angeles-based  KB Home (KBH)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said in a conference call in
September. “The markets remain solid in Houston, Dallas-Fort
Worth and Denver as well.”  The gain in mobility, while modest, “is an encouraging
sign, especially for interstate moves,” said  William Frey , a
demographer at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington. “It
means young people are beginning to dig out of the trenches and
may be able to go on with their lives, relocating to new jobs
and getting into homes of their own.”  Recent Grads  Stephen Hom, 26, who last month took a job at  General
Electric Co. (GE)  after moving to Houston as part of its engineering
training program, said he’s encountered recent grads from
Virginia, Florida and Wisconsin attracted to the city by
opportunities in the energy field.  “There is an influx of people coming from out of state,”
he said. “This is a big energy city and a lot of companies are
looking to hire.”  Bemetra Simmons, 37, took a job at  BB&T Corp. (BBT)  as an area
executive in Tampa after working in a similar job at the
regional bank in the smaller market of Decatur, Georgia.
Population growth in Florida probably will  rise  to 1.7 percent a
year by 2015 from an estimated 1.2 percent this year, said Sean Snaith, economist with the University of Central Florida in
Orlando.  Anderson, 24, says she runs into newcomers in Houston
frequently around her home near Memorial Park, where she can
bike, run and play volleyball. To advance in her sales career,
Anderson says she has to be flexible.  “If there is a promotional opportunity, you need to be
able to move,” she said. “I will probably move again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  