-- Hammond Sees Budget Cuts Driving Overhaul of Defense Industry
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-11-01T11:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/hammond-sees-budget-cuts-driving-overhaul-of-defense-industry.html
Military spending cuts among
developed countries and changes in export markets will force
defense companies to restructure, U.K. Defense Secretary Philip Hammond said.  “I have no doubt the reorganization of the defense
industries across the developed world will be required over the
coming years,” he said at the  Royal United Services Institute ’s
annual air-power conference in London today. “There are a
number of permutations that are possible,” he said, without
outlining details.  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and  European Aerospace, Defence & Space Co. (EAD) 
explored merging into the world’s largest aerospace and defense
company by sales, in part to broaden  market access  in the face
of lower spending prospects in Europe. The plan unraveled amid
government opposition to the deal.  “The merger shows just how significant the national-
interest barriers are that have to be overcome,” Hammond said.
That is true even if the German concerns were over jobs rather
than defense considerations, he said.  Changes being made within the defense ministry should help
companies generate overseas sales, such as building in
“exportability” into programs as they are defined, Hammond
said. Having a strong  aerospace industry  is “vital,” he said.  The defense ministry will publish more details of its
equipment plan in the coming months, Hammond said. “This will
provide greater granularity than ever before about how money
will be spent across the breadth of capabilities by breaking
down spending for equipment and support.”  Balanced Budget  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government says it has
closed a shortfall in the  defense budget  inherited from the
previous Labour administration and the National Audit Office is
due to make an assessment by year-end.  Budget concerns persist, though, with submarine plans set
to create a cash spending increase after 2020 that needs to be
dealt with to avoid derailing other equipment projects.  The U.K. is still debating whether to use both aircraft
carriers now under construction. The cost of operating a second
carrier would be 70 million pounds ($113 million) per year,
Hammond said. “I think that’s an extremely good investment,”
he said, while noting a decision on whether to proceed with
deploying both will be made in 2015 at the next strategic
review.  The U.K. will put one carrier into operation starting in
2018 with around 12  Lockheed Martin (LMT)  F-35B Joint Strike Fighters.
That figure could be increased if necessary, Hammond said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  