-- Amtrak to Resume Limited Service Into NYC During Repairs
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-11-02T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/amtrak-to-resume-limited-service-into-nyc-during-repairs.html
Amtrak  will provide limited Acela
Express and Northeast Regional service between  Washington  and
 Boston  today, marking a partial restoration of Northeast
Corridor service for the first time since Oct. 28, when Atlantic
superstorm Sandy approached the U.S. East Coast.  Amtrak restored limited service from New York’s Penn
Station to Washington, running eight trains between the two
cities last night, according to Amtrak Chief Executive Officer
Joseph Boardman. Service between New York and Boston will resume
today.  Amtrak is negotiating with Via Rail Canada Inc. for extra
equipment to boost service in New Jersey, where New Jersey Rail
Co.’s train service has been suspended indefinitely because of
storm damage, Boardman said in a briefing yesterday.  “We need to bring the East Coast back,” Boardman said.
“We know that transportation is an integral part of that.”  Boardman said one rail tunnel beneath the Hudson River has
been cleared of water, permitting the resumption of service
south from New York. A second tunnel beneath the river may be
pumped out this weekend, he said.  Three of four tunnels on the north side of New York are
clear of water, Boardman said.  Amtrak doesn’t have enough equipment to offset the loss of
rail service on New Jersey Transit, which has been disabled by
flooding-related electrical failures, said Steve Kulm, a
spokesman for Amtrak.  Limited Service  “Even on a normal day, our trains couldn’t handle all of
their passengers and our passengers,” Kulm said yesterday.  New Jersey Transit’s trains remain “suspended until
further notice,” said Nancy Snyder, an agency spokeswoman. The
system’s rail operations center was flooded, damaging its
computers, backup power supply and emergency generator.
Operators used the center to control movement of trains and to
supply power.  The Newark-based operator faces other problems Amtrak
doesn’t have. Its trains are powered by electricity from
overhead power lines, some of which were damaged by trees and
wind. Local power outages prevented the testing of crossing
gates and operating signals. Portions of North Jersey Coast Line
track were washed away. The Morgan Drawbridge in South Amboy was
struck by boats and a trailer.  Passengers for the resumed Amtrak service should make
reservations or use the eTicketing option with their computers
and smartphones before traveling to stations, the railroad said.  Damaged Tracks  Amtrak still faces service obstacles on tracks north of New
York controlled by the Metro-North commuter railroad.  A damaged section of track between Spuyten Duyvil and
Poughkeepsie, north of the city, will take days to repair,
according to  Marjorie Anders , a spokeswoman for the Metropolitan
Transit Authority, which operates Metro-North.  Boardman said Amtrak doesn’t expect to offer service to
 Albany  until at least tomorrow.  Amtrak uses the track for its Empire service to Albany and
other parts of upstate New York, as well as for the Maple Leaf
to Toronto, the Ethan Allen to  Vermont , and the Adirondack to
 Montreal .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  