-- Manhattan Court Storm Closing Delays Inside-Trading Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-11-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/manhattan-court-storm-closure-delays-insider-trial.html
The U.S. District Court in lower
 Manhattan , the primary venue for major financial litigation with
jurisdiction over the New York Stock Exchange and bank
headquarters, will be closed for the week as a result of the
super-storm that pummeled the region.  The closure has delayed jury selection for the insider-
trading trial of  Todd Newman , a former Diamondback Capital
Management LLC portfolio manager, and Level Global Investors LP
co-founder Anthony Chiasson, who were to go on trial Oct. 29.  Prosecutors alleged Chiasson, Newman and a group of
analysts, fund managers and insiders at technology companies
swapped illegal tips on  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , earning more
than $67 million. The storm interrupted the trial of Bruce Bent,
co-founder of the Reserve Funds, in a suit by the Securities and
Exchange Commission over the failure of the money market fund in
the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse.  The New York court near Foley Square is operating on
emergency generator power, Edward Friedland, the district
executive of the U.S.  Southern District of New York , said
yesterday in an e-mail. The district’s satellite courts in White
Plains and Middletown, north of  New York City , are open, he
said.  Court officials are working with  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) ,
 AT&T Inc. (T)  and the  General Services Administration  to get the
courthouse back up and running as quickly as possible, he said.  Restoring Operations  “We are working around the clock the restore full
operations of all SDNY facilities,”Friedland said. “However,
most of the issues that need to be resolved in order for all of
our facilities to become functional are beyond our control.”  U.S. District Judge Loretta Preska, the chief judge of the
Southern District, ordered extended until Nov. 5 deadlines in
criminal cases. She said her order is retroactive to Oct. 29,
the day the storm, formerly  Hurricane Sandy , hit the New York
metropolitan area. Federal court rules and laws limit the amount
of time prosecutors have to bring a defendant to trial.  Preska said the extension was merited because the storm has
rendered transportation to the courthouse ‘difficult and in some
cases impossible.’’ Preska issued a parallel order covering
civil cases.  This is the first time the Manhattan Federal courthouse has
been closed for this long since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks, said Stephanie Cirkovich, a spokeswoman for Friedland.  The courthouse and all federal buildings in Lower
Manhattan, including FBI headquarters, were evacuated the
morning of Sept. 11, 2001, out of concerns among U.S. officials
that they might be the target of another terrorist attack. The
buildings weren’t reopened to the public for one week.  The  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan, the busiest in the
nation and located near the southern tip of Manhattan, is also
closed.  The cases are U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan); SEC v. Reserve
Management Co., 09-cv-04346, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  