-- Apple Leaves U.K. Judge at ‘Loss’ Over Samsung Web Posts
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-11-01T14:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/apple-ordered-to-change-notice-in-u-k-samsung-case.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was criticized by U.K.
judges for posting a notice on its website about a lawsuit with
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  that was “untrue” and “incorrect.”  The U.K. Court of Appeal in London ordered Apple to remove
the statement within 24 hours and replace it with a new notice
acknowledging the inaccurate comments.  “I’m at a loss that a company such as Apple would do
this,” Judge Robin Jacob said today. “That is a plain breach
of the order.”  The decision is the latest in a lawsuit that produced a
July judgment in which another London court said the design for
three Samsung Galaxy tablets didn’t infringe Apple’s registered
design because they were not “cool” enough. Apple, based in
Cupertino,  California , was told by the same court last month to
post a notice about the ruling that Samsung’s Galaxy tablets
didn’t copy the design of Apple’s iPad.  The court’s initial order was for a simple notice on its
website about the Oct. 18 judgment meant to correct the
impression Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung had copied Apple’s
product.  Apple’s  post , criticized by judges today, inserted four
paragraphs including excerpts of the original cool ruling
regarding the tablets’ coolness that appear to favor Apple and
details of German lawsuits about similar issues that the court
today said weren’t true.  Fast, Loose  The notice created the “impression that the U.K. court is
out of step with other courts,” Henry Carr, Samsung’s lawyer,
said in a filing.  “It was clear the judges were not happy with what Apple
had done,” Gary Moss, a lawyer at EIP Partnership LLP who isn’t
involved in the case but attended today’s hearing, said in a
phone interview. “They thought Apple was playing fast and
loose.”  Alan Hely, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment on
the ruling. Michael Beloff, a lawyer for the company, told the
court the comments were in line with the original order.  The notice “is not designed to punish, it is not designed
to makes us grovel,” Beloff said in court today. “The only
purpose is to dispel commercial uncertainty.”  Apple’s request for 14 days to make the changes was
rejected.  Technical Difficulties  “I would like to see the head of Apple make an affidavit
setting out the technical difficulties which means Apple can’t
put this on” their website, Jacob said. “I just can’t believe
the instructions you’ve been given. This is Apple. They cannot
put something on their website?”  Apple must now add a three sentence note on its homepage in
acknowledgment of “the incorrect statement,” with a link to a
new notice, the judges said today.  As part of the original order, Apple must publish notices
in U.K. newspapers and trade magazines with details of the
ruling. The Financial Times published the statement in today’s
edition on page four.  Patent and trademark disputes are playing out in courts
around the globe as rivals including  HTC Corp. (2498) , Google Inc.,
Apple and Samsung fight for dominance in the smartphone and
tablet computer markets. The Court of Appeal in the Oct. 18
ruling that called for the website notice criticized the split
rulings from different national courts.  In August, Apple won a $1.05 billion U.S. jury verdict in a
patent case between the companies. A week later a Tokyo court
ruled Samsung products didn’t infringe an Apple invention for
synchronizing music and video data with servers. A German court
in July granted Apple a Europe-wide injunction preventing
Samsung from selling one model. Australian and Dutch courts have
also issued rulings that contrasted with decisions in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  