-- Marcus Says Investors Can’t Assume S. Africa Rate Cuts
-- B y   O l i v i a   S t e r n s   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-11-01T15:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/marcus-says-investors-can-t-assume-more-south-africa-rate-cuts.html
South African Reserve Bank Governor
Gill Marcus said investors shouldn’t assume the central bank
will automatically cut interest rates as she weighs inflation
risks against weaker economic growth.  Policy makers remain ready to act in “whatever way is
necessary,” Marcus said in her first interview with Bloomberg
TV at her offices in  Pretoria , the capital, yesterday. The
bank’s primary responsibility is to control inflation, she said.  “It shouldn’t be seen as foregone that we would
automatically react to stimulus in relation to growth when you
have inflation issues that seem to be coming through,” Marcus,
63, who will mark her third year in office this month, said.  The Reserve Bank is trying to ward off  inflation  threats
while supporting an economy that’s set to expand at its slowest
pace since a 2009 recession. In July, the bank surprised
economists by reducing the  benchmark interest rate  for the first
time in 20 months. The growth outlook has deteriorated since
then as the worst labor unrest in almost two decades slashed
mining exports while fuel prices and a weaker rand threaten to
push inflation outside of the bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent
target band.  “We would weigh it very carefully,” Marcus said,
referring to interest rate cuts. “We can introduce stimulus if
we think it is appropriate. But we do have to take all the
factors into account.”  Rate Expectations  Marcus’s comments come as central banks around the world
move to shore up their economies to protect against slowing
global growth. Policy makers in  Israel ,  Hungary  and the Czech
Republic surprised economists in the past week by reducing
borrowing costs. South Africa’s central bank kept the key rate
unchanged in September at 5 percent, the lowest level in more
than 30 years.  Inflation accelerated for a second month to 5.5 percent in
September, driving up bond yields as investors reduced bets the
central bank will lower borrowing costs again this year. The
yield on the security due in 2021 rose six basis points to 6.68
percent since Oct. 23, the day before the consumer price data
was released.  Marcus’s comments helped to reduce expectations of interest
rate cuts, said Gina Schoeman, an economist at Citigroup Inc.
Forward-rate agreements starting in six months, which investors
use to speculate on interest rates, jumped four basis points to
4.92 percent as of 5:14 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Growth Forecasts  “The upside risks are coming through” to inflation,
Schoeman said in an interview in Pretoria. “It is going to
start threatening the 6 percent target ceiling.”  The Reserve Bank has cut its growth forecast thrice this
year to 2.6 percent as a debt crisis in Europe curbs demand from
a region that buys about a third of South Africa’s manufactured
exports. The  economy  expanded 3.1 percent in 2011.  Slower growth “is an area of concern, primarily from the
advanced economies,” Marcus, the nation’s first female central
bank governor, said. “If the euro zone is not growing, it
impacts in many areas.”  Strikes since August that shut operations owned by  Lonmin
Plc (LMI) ,  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  have
worsened the outlook. The gold and platinum mining industry has
lost 10.1 billion rand ($1.16 billion) in production this year
because of the stoppages, the National Treasury said on Oct. 25.  Rand Slumps  The rand gained 0.2 percent to 8.66 against the dollar at
5:25 p.m. in Johannesburg. The currency has plunged 6.6 percent
since the strikes began on Aug. 10, the worst performer of 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Unless the currency starts to find some favor and
stronger ground very quickly, it is very unlikely” the central
bank will lower borrowing costs again, Schoeman said.  Speaking from the balcony of her office in downtown
Pretoria, where the evening call to prayer could be heard from a
nearby mosque, Marcus said her biggest concern relating to the
strikes was job losses.  Lonmin ended a six-week illegal strike at its Marikana
platinum mine by giving workers pay increases of as much as 22
percent. The company said yesterday it may fire workers. Anglo
American Platinum, Gold Fields and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU)  also
announced job cuts in the past two months.  “The strikes for us are very concerning,” the governor
said. “There is definitely an impact, third quarter we will see
the numbers coming through.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivia Sterns in London at 
 osterns1@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  