-- Argentina Cuts Voting Age as Fernandez Aims to Boost Support
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-01T16:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/argentina-lowers-voting-age-as-fernandez-tries-to-regain-footing.html
Argentine lawmakers approved a bill
lowering the country’s voting age, a move that could rally youth
support as President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner tries to
revert a slide in her popularity ahead of congressional
elections next year.  The lower house approved the bill in a 131-2 vote
yesterday, converting  Argentina  into one of only a handful of
nations where 16-year-olds can vote. The government-backed bill,
which passed the Senate in early October, allows young people to
cast ballots two years before voting becomes mandatory at age
18.  Fernandez has courted young voters since being elected in
2007, naming members of the government-aligned “La Campora”
youth group to top positions and tapping funds from the social
security agency to provide students with free laptops. Expanding
the suffrage may help build support for the government even
further as the opposition tries to capitalize on growing
frustration with Fernandez’s handling of the economy, political
analyst Carlos Fara said.  “The government believes that the more politically active
young people will vote for the ruling party,” said Fara, who
runs Carlos Fara & Asociados in  Buenos Aires .  ‘Cristina Forever’  Some of Fernandez’s youth supporters have been calling for
a change in the constitution to allow Fernandez to seek a third
term in 2015, carrying banners that read “Cristina Forever” at
recent rallies. While Fernandez hasn’t said whether she backs
such a move, her ruling Victory Front coalition would need to
add seats in the mid-term elections to reach a two-thirds
majority needed to change the nation’s charter.  “The 2013 elections are very important to install the
possibility of changing the law to allow Fernandez to run
again,” Fara said.  The lower house vote involved 134 deputies out of 257, as
opposition lawmakers from the Radical Civic Party and Socialist
party boycotted the session over comments made by Andres
Larroque from the ruling coalition.  Political Future  Fernandez has sidestepped questions about her political
future, and says enfranchising young adults expands democratic
rights in the same way her government has promoted legislation
to allow  same-sex marriages .  “The constitution doesn’t allow my re-election as
president, so this is beyond what I want. It’s not my
responsibility to reform the constitution,” Fernandez said in a
Sept. 28 exchange with students at  Harvard University  in
Cambridge, Mass. “It doesn’t depend on me.”  Yesterday, 28 opposition senators signed a statement
pledging to vote against any attempt to modify the country’s
constitution.  “We need to honor the constitution and there’s no need for
reform,” said Senator Adolfo Rodriguez Saa, who ran the country
as president for a couple of days after the 2001 financial
crisis. “In 2015 we’ll have a new president in Argentina.”  Fernandez’s approval rating, which surged in October 2010
after her husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner , died of a
heart attack, fell to 24.3 percent in September, the lowest
level since a months-long farmers’ strike in 2008, according to
Buenos Aires-based polling company Management & Fit.  Protests  On Sept. 13, thousands of Argentines poured into the
streets throughout the country banging pots and chanting anti-
government slogans against Fernandez’s ban on buying dollars and
her failure to combat a rise in crime and  inflation  that
economists say exceeds 20 percent.  It was the biggest national protest since the farm crisis,
with several protesters carrying banners opposing any move to
reform the constitution.  Argentina’s gross domestic product was flat in the second
quarter, the first time the economy failed to expand since the
third quarter of 2009. Industrial production has contracted
every month since April, while auto exports fell 28.4 percent in
the first nine months of the year.  Fernandez’s spokesman, Alfredo Scoccimarro, didn’t return a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  