-- Arizona Nonprofit Must Reveal $11 Million Donor Details
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-11-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/arizona-nonprofit-must-reveal-11-million-donor-details.html
A nonprofit group that contributed
$11 million to fight a  California  ballot measure aimed at
raising taxes was ordered by a judge to disclose documents so
state election officials can probe where the money came from.  State court Judge Shelleyanne W.L. Chang in  Sacramento ,
California, yesterday issued a ruling siding with the  Fair
Political Practices Commission  that had argued that an audit of
records from the Arizona nonprofit, Americans for Responsible
Leadership, related to the contribution was needed before the
Nov. 6 general election.  “The FPPC is not seeking to restrict, and the court is
not, limiting expenditures by the ARL,” Chang said in a minute
order posted on the court’s website. “The court is simply
concluding that the FPPC, under its statutory authority can
conduct an audit to determine whether it has complied with
applicable California law and regulations.”  The FPPC sued Phoenix-based Americans for Responsible
Leadership to identify the secret source of the donation after
the group refused to comply with a commission audit to determine
whether it violated laws aimed at letting voters know who is
bankrolling ballot initiatives.  The donation, one of the single largest contributions made
in California this election, also supports a proposition to
prohibit unions from using payroll deductions for political
purposes.  Supreme Court  The funding is part of a wave of secret money flowing
through nonprofit groups that are increasingly being used to
protect the identities of donors in the aftermath of the U.S.
Supreme Court’s 2010 decision in a case called Citizens United
v. Federal Election Commission and other court rulings.  Out-of-state-groups spending money on California ballot
initiatives must disclose their donors before Election Day if
the donors intend for their contributions to be used to back or
oppose candidates or measures, Gary Winuk, chief of enforcement
at the commission, said in a petition seeking a court order
against Americans for Responsible Leadership.  “Because the records sought by petitioner may be highly
relevant to the upcoming election, it is imperative that
respondent be ordered to produce the records immediately in
order to avoid irreparable harm to petitioner and the voters of
California,” Winuk said in a court filing.  The Phoenix group said in a filing that the Citizens United
ruling protects the constitutional rights of people who
“associate together in nonprofit corporations.” The ruling
gave corporations the same rights as individuals to spend money
independently to support candidates.  Nonprofit Rights  “What is worth noting here, in light of the political
atmosphere that has led to this case, is the undisputable notion
that nonprofit corporations have constitutional rights,”
Alexander Vogel, a Washington attorney representing Americans
for Responsible Leadership, said in a court filing.  The group has never solicited “earmarked” donations aimed
at specific projects and the California disclosure rule wasn’t
triggered because its donors didn’t know the group would be
contributing money to the Small Business Action Committee PAC, a
California group that opposes Governor Jerry Brown’s Proposition
30, he said.  Vogel didn’t immediately return a call yesterday after
regular business hours seeking comment on ruling.  The measure would temporarily boost the state sales tax to
7.5 percent from 7.25 percent and raise the levy on income
starting at $250,000 to avoid deep education spending cuts.  Union Dues  The committee also backs Proposition 32, a measure that
would restrict the use of union dues for political purposes.  Brown, speaking at a rally for Proposition 30 at California
State University, Los Angeles, said the opposition is funded
largely by “financiers” trying to protect their interests. At
the same time, Brown said, more billionaires support Prop. 30
than oppose it.  Brown said the money is coming from a few people in
 Arizona .  “They may be good people, they may be bad, but whoever
they are, they’re ashamed of their identities,” Brown said.
“They don’t want to be known.”  Americans for Responsible Leadership seeks to educate the
public about “concepts that advance government accountability,
transparency, ethics and related public policy issues,”
according to its website. The group never made contributions in
California before Oct. 15, when it gave $11 million to the Small
Business Action Committee PAC, state officials said in a court
filing.  The case is Fair Political Practices Commission v,
Americans for Responsible Leadership, 34-2012-00131550,
California Superior Court, Sacramento County (Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  