-- Marlins Hire Ex-Catcher Mike Redmond to Replace Ozzie Guillen
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-01T17:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/marlins-hire-redmond-to-replace-guillen-cbssports-com-reports.html
Mike Redmond was hired to replace
Ozzie Guillen as manager of the  Miami Marlins , nine years after
he was a catcher on their second World Series championship team.  Redmond, 41, was managing in the  Toronto Blue Jays ’
organization, spending the past two seasons with the club’s
Class-A minor-league affiliate in Dunedin, Florida. The Marlins
said in a statement on their website that Redmond received a
 three-year contract , and Guillen congratulated Redmond in a
posting on his official Twitter feed.  Guillen was fired on Oct. 23 after the Marlins finished in
last place in the National League’s five-team East Division with
a 69-93 record. They came in 29 games behind division-champion
Washington after signing shortstop  Jose Reyes  and other high-
priced free agents and moving into a $515 million retractable-
roof stadium.  Redmond was the first candidate to interview with the
Marlins, meeting with team owner Jeffrey Loria and other members
of the front office the day after Guillen’s ouster. He had a
155-115 record in the minors and was named the Midwest League
Manager of the Year in 2011.  Redmond played in the majors from 1998 to 2010, including
his first seven seasons with the Marlins, and was a backup to
 Ivan Rodriguez  on the club’s 2003 championship team. Redmond had
a .287 career batting average, also playing for Minnesota and
Cleveland.  Redmond’s hiring with limited managerial experience is
similar to the  St. Louis Cardinals  turning to former catcher
Mike Matheny last year to succeed  Tony La Russa , who won three
World Series titles. Matheny, who was also 41 at the time and
had no previous managerial or coaching experience when he was
hired, guided the Cardinals to the National League Championship
Series this season.  Seventh Manager  Redmond becomes the Marlins’ seventh manager since Loria
bought the team in 2002.  Guillen was fired by the Marlins with three years remaining
on his four-year, $10 million contract and had a tumultuous
relationship with Loria, who suspended the manager for five
games last season for remarks supporting former Cuban President
 Fidel Castro .  Guillen, who later apologized, also criticized the team’s
performance on Sept. 21 and said Loria needed to “look in the
mirror” and ask why the team has had so many managers.  The team, which opened its stadium in Miami’s Little Havana
section, spent almost $200 million on free agents before the
2012 season, including $106 million on Reyes and $58 million on
pitcher  Mark Buehrle , and still failed to challenge for a
playoff spot.  Guillen wished Redmond luck, saying on his  Twitter feed ,
the new manager will “have great guys going to play for you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  