-- Arsenal’s Wenger Is Desperate to Get Walcott Deal Done: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-01T05:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/arsenal-s-wenger-is-desperate-to-get-walcott-deal-done-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Walcott Deal  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  is “desperate” for Theo Walcott to sign a new contract and has warned that he wants the
saga resolved by the end of November, the  Sun reported .  Walcott, whose man-of-the-match performance lifted Arsenal
to a 7-5 comeback win in the League Cup at Reading two days ago,
is in the final year of his agreement and rejected an offer of
75,000 pounds a week in August, the Sun added.  “I always said I want to keep him,” the Sun cited Wenger
as saying. “Apart from the contract talks, we have to give him
credit for the way he is committed to the team and the way he
behaves.”  Zaha Chase  Manchester United  joined Tottenham, Arsenal,  Manchester
City  and Liverpool in scouting Crystal Palace winger Wilfried
Zaha, the  Daily Mail reported .  Spurs are said to be in pole position to sign the 19-year-
old, whom Palace co-owner Steve Parish has said would cost about
20 million pounds, the Mail added.  Ukrainian Keeper  Chelsea and Manchester City are pursuing Obolon Kiev
goalkeeper Igor Berezovsky after he attracted their attention
with his performances in the Ukrainian second tier, the  Daily
Mirror reported .  Bayern Munich  is also interested in signing the 22-year-
old, who’s on the verge of breaking through to the Ukraine
national team, the newspaper added.  Pleading Poverty  A lawyer for  Michael Ballack  claimed the retired German
midfielder could not afford to pay an 8,000-pound fine for
speeding on a Spanish freeway because he is unemployed, the
 Daily Telegraph reported .  At a second hearing yesterday, Ballack’s lawyer, Jesus
Gallego Rol, requested that the fine be cut to 800 pounds
because Ballack has no income since he was released by  Bayer
Leverkusen  in June, the newspaper added.  Newcastle Target  Newcastle is in a fight with Italian clubs Napoli and Roma
for Argentine center-half German Pezzella, who would cost about
4.5 million pounds to sign from River Plate, the  Sun reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  