-- Hartford Reports Third-Quarter Profit as Focus Narrows
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-11-01T21:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/hartford-reports-third-quarter-profit-as-focus-narrows.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) , the insurer divesting life operations to focus on
property-casualty coverage, said third-quarter profit rose as
claims from storms fell.  Net income rose to $401 million, or 83 cents a share, from
$60 million, or 11 cents, a year earlier, the Hartford,
Connecticut-based company said today in a statement. Excluding
some investment results, profit was 78 cents a share, missing
the 83-cent  average estimate  of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Liam McGee reached  deals  this year
to sell Hartford’s broker-dealer, retirement-plans business, a
life operation and individual-annuities distribution unit after
pressure from John Paulson to simplify the company. Paulson,
whose hedge fund is among Hartford’s  largest shareholder s, urged
McGee in February to split property-casualty operations, such as
auto and commercial coverage, from life insurance.  “The company really is making progress towards property
and casualty,”  Randy Binner , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets,
said in an interview before results were announced. He rates
Hartford outperform.  The insurer joined rivals Travelers Cos. and Chubb Corp. in
benefiting from reduced storm costs in the third quarter from a
year earlier, when Hurricane Irene lashed the U.S. East Coast.
Catastrophes cost Hartford half a cent for every premium dollar
at Hartford’s commercial property-casualty business, compared
with 6.1 cents per premium dollar a year earlier.  Sandy Impact  Claims from Sandy, the Atlantic superstorm that battered
the East Coast this week, will affect results in the current
period.  Property-casualty insurers have been lifting prices for
coverage as low interest rates put pressure on income from bond
portfolios and natural disasters add to claims costs. Hartford
raised standard commercial rates 8 percent in the quarter for
renewing customers and 4 percent and 6 percent for personal auto
and home policies, respectively.  “We had lower catastrophes in the third quarter of 2012
than in the third quarter of 2011, which contributed to some of
our more normal performance,” McGee said in an interview after
results were announced. “But, in addition, we benefited from
strong pricing trends.”  Accounting Costs  Earnings also reflected lower accounting costs in the
company’s wealth-management division. Life insurers guarantee
minimum returns for some clients, and adjust profit assumptions
when investment returns don’t meet the company’s targets.  McGee, 58, said in September that the divestitures and
narrower focus will give the insurer more flexibility in
returning capital to shareholders. The firm’s book value, a
measure of assets minus liabilities, may make share buybacks
among the best uses of capital, he said in a Sept. 27 interview
in New York.  “The businesses that we’re staying in have generated a
substantial amount of capital,” McGee said. “The businesses
that we’re getting out of consume virtually all of that capital.
By selling and shutting down the businesses, we’re eliminating
that consumption of capital.”  Hartford’s book value rose to $48.13 a share from $45.59 at
the end of June.  Hartford advanced  1 percent to $21.92 at 4:03
p.m. in New York before the earnings announcement.  Costs related to the insurer’s decision to stop selling new
individual annuities and the divestitures led to $34 million in
expenses in the quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  