-- Artisan Partners Plans to Raise Up to $250 Million in IPO
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-11-01T14:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/artisan-partners-plans-to-raise-up-to-250-million-in-ipo.html
Artisan Partners Asset Management
Inc. (APAM) , the Milwaukee-based investment firm known for its top-
performing stock funds, plans to raise as much as $250 million
in an initial public offering, its second attempt to go public
after withdrawing a registration last year.  Artisan, which oversees funds in a dozen distinct U.S. and
non-U.S. investment strategies, will use proceeds of the sale to
repay debt, buy shares from early investors, pay portfolio
managers and pre-IPO partners, and contribute to the firm’s
working capital, the company said today in a filing with U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The amount is a placeholder
and may change.  Artisan, led by Andrew Ziegler, had planned an offering
last year before withdrawing its registration in December,
citing “unfavorable market conditions.” Its funds include the
top-performing $6.6 billion Artisan International Value Fund,
which beat 99 percent of peers over the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The firm also manages the $8 billion Artisan Mid Cap Value
Fund, which beat 97 percent of rivals over the same period. The
team that runs the fund won Morningstar Inc.’s domestic stock
manager of the year award for 2011.  Artisan, founded in 1994, had about $70 billion in assets
276 associates as of Sept. 30, according to its  website . The
firm has offices in Milwaukee,  San Francisco , Atlanta,  New York 
and  London .  The offering is being led by Citigroup Inc. and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  The company plans to list its shares on the New
York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol APAM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  