-- ETF Surges as Manufacturing Index Propels Gains
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-11-01T20:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/asiainfo-jumps-on-forecast-as-pmi-propels-gains.html
The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund ,
the biggest Chinese exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed to
a six-month high as expanding factory output added to signs the
economy is awakening from a seven-quarter slowdown.  The iShares FTSE China ETF rallied 2.6 percent to $37.75
yesterday, the strongest since May 3.  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) 
drove a 2.1 percent surge in the Bloomberg  China-US Equity Index (CH55BN) 
of the most-traded Chinese stocks in  New York .  AsiaInfo-Linkage
Inc. (ASIA) , a  software developer  mulling a buyout proposal, soared 6.5
percent after issuing a fourth-quarter forecast that beat
analysts’ estimates. China Petroleum and Chemical Corp. traded
at the widest premium to its Hong Kong shares since September.  Chinese manufacturing expanded for the first time in three
months in October as output rose and new orders came in, a
purchasing managers’ index released yesterday by the government
and the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing showed.
Coupled with reports last month showing industrial production
rebounded and retail sales rose the most in six months, the data
bolsters the outlook for the world’s largest exporter.  “Investors were looking for some signs of stabilization in
the growth, and the purchasing managers’ index is one of those
signs,” Audrey Kaplan, lead manager of the $532 million
Federated InterContinental Fund at Federated Global Investment
Management, said by phone in New York yesterday. “People’s
confidence in Chinese equities is picking up. It looks like the
beginning of a rally.”  MSCI China’s Gain  The Bloomberg China-US  gauge  jumped to 95.83 yesterday in
its steepest advance in a month. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
added 1.1 percent to 1,427.59, paring a 2 percent slump in
October, as U.S. employment and manufacturing reports topped
economists’ estimates.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of Chinese domestic shares
surged 1.7 percent to 2,104.43 yesterday after losing 0.8
percent last month. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong climbed 1.1 percent to
10,701.21 after posting a  monthly gain  of 7.6 percent in
October.  The MSCI China Index (MXCN)  has advanced 13 percent this year,
compared with gains of 21 percent in a similar gauge for India.
Russian stocks added 3.8 percent, while  Brazil ’s dropped 5.2
percent. The Chinese measure may climb at least 15 percent in
2013, Kaplan said.  AsiaInfo, which sells telecommunications software to
China’s largest phone carriers, surged to $10.65 in New York, in
the steepest rally since Aug. 6.  AsiaInfo Profit  The Beijing-based company expects fourth-quarter adjusted
net income of 40 cents to 43 cents per share, surpassing the 35-
cent average estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
The company posted earnings per share of 6 cents in the third
quarter, compared with the median analysts’ projection of 7
cents, according to a statement dated Oct. 31.  AsiaInfo also said it is still evaluating an offer received
in January from CITIC Capital  China  Partners II to take the
company private, adding that it is considering other options and
there is “no assurance” that the deal will be completed.  “Shares will continue to trade on the offer to take
AsiaInfo private,” James Friedman, a senior analyst at
Susquehanna International Group, wrote in a report yesterday.
“But fundamentally, the third quarter was decent and fourth-
quarter guidance surprisingly strong.”  Web Code  Qihoo, which owns China’s most popular Web browser and
started an online search engine in August, jumped 6.1 percent to
$21.82, the biggest one-day gain since Aug. 22.  Twelve Chinese Internet search companies, including  Baidu
Inc. (BIDU) , the biggest, and Qihoo, signed a code of conduct yesterday
in Beijing seeking to protect users’ privacy and refrain from
improper competition, the Sina Corp. news service  said  on its
website. The agreement was reached under the guidance of the
nation’s Ministry of Industry and Information, according to the
report.  China National Radio said in an Oct. 27  report  that the
ministry had started to review a case in which an Internet user
accused Qihoo’s browser of privacy infringement, citing ministry
spokesman Zhang Feng.  “Investors had worried that Qihoo would get punished after
the government started the investigation,” Echo He, an analyst
at Maxim Group LLC in New York, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “The signing of this conduct code means that it
isn’t likely to happen, relieving people’s concern.”  French Acquisition  China Petroleum, Asia’s largest refiner, climbed 4 percent
to $109.43, the biggest advance since January. The company known
as Sinopec’s ADRs, each reach representing 100 underlying
shares, traded 1 percent above its  Hong Kong  stock, the highest
premium since Sept. 14.  Sinopec’s parent China Petrochemical Corp. is considering
an acquisition of French oil explorer Etablissements  Maurel (MAU)  &
Prom, three people with knowledge of the matter said, asking not
to be identified as the deliberations are private. A deal could
value Maurel at more than $2 billion, two of the people said.
Buying Maurel would allow the group to boost oil output in
African countries including Gabon while avoiding the regulatory
scrutiny that’s held up Chinese deals in the U.S. and  Canada .  Thirty-day volatility  in the China-US gauge rebounded to
15.77 yesterday from 15.13 the previous day, the lowest level
since May 2011. Those readings compare with this year’s average
of 22.9. The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which
tracks a basket of companies that gained U.S. listings after
buying firms that already trade, jumped 2.1 percent to 73.39,
the strongest close since May 14.  ‘Currency Manipulator’  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on the  yuan  weakened
0.1 percent to 6.3525 per dollar yesterday in New York, after
the currency depreciated 0.05 percent to 6.2405 in  Shanghai .  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and candidate  Mitt Romney  both
say an undervalued yuan gives China an unfair edge in trade,
with Romney threatening to label the nation a “currency
manipulator.” The yuan is forecast to depreciate 1 percent to
6.3 against the greenback by the end of this year as the
currencies of Brazil, India and  Russia  strengthen, according to
median estimates of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  