-- Atlantic City Casino Borgata Bonds Fall as Resorts Stay Closed
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2012-11-01T20:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/atlantic-city-casino-borgata-bonds-fall-as-resorts-stay-closed.html
Bonds of Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa,
owned by  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  and  Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD) , fell
the most in more than nine months as damage from Hurricane Sandy
keeps the second-largest U.S. gaming site closed.  The casino’s $393.5 million of 9.875 percent notes due
August 2018 have fallen 2.25 cents on the dollar since the
largest tropical storm in the Atlantic slammed the East Coast on
Oct. 29. The securities traded at 99.5 cents to yield 9.98
percent at 2:27 p.m. in New York, the biggest decline since Jan.
25. The company’s $394.4 million of 9.5 percent secured notes
due October 2015 have dropped 2.4 cents to trade at 100.1 cents
on the dollar with a 9.47 percent yield since the storm.  Borgata, owned by the Marina District Finance Co. joint
venture, had third-quarter revenue of $187.1 million, compared
with $202 million in the similar period last year, according to
Boyd Gaming, which announced the results in a statement with its
own earnings. Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization was $33.4 million, down from $50.3
million in the same period a year ago.  “This was a lot lower than we thought,” said Susan Berliner, an analyst at JPMorgan & Co. She said in a telephone
interview that she was “shocked” because the company had
provided guidance of $47 million to $49 million. JPMorgan
estimated $42 million, she said. “The monthly numbers appeared
to be holding up OK, so that’s why it was pretty surprising.”  Storm Recovery  Atlantic City, which is second only to Las Vegas in
gambling revenue, sustained limited damage, compared with other
New Jersey Shore areas. Casinos may report lower revenue because
of damage to roadways and the loss of regular customers, who may
be preoccupied with a storm recovery, according to Fitch
Ratings.  “The bigger question for the industry remains the status
of roadways and other infrastructure in the Atlantic City and
feeder areas,” Fitch analysts Michael Paladino and Bill Warlick
wrote in a report today. That “may limit the ability of casino
employees and customers to get to Atlantic City’s 12 gaming
properties easily.”  Casinos in Atlantic City have been closed since the night
of Oct. 28, a day before  Hurricane Sandy  hit the state. Damage
to the resorts is minor, according to the  Casino Association of
New Jersey .  The impact from Hurricane Sandy may force Marina District
Finance, whose only asset is the Borgata, to seek a covenant
amendment to avoid breaching a minimum cash flow requirement in
its bank-loan agreement, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  “Because it’s a single property, they would be at risk,
especially given the covenant situation,” Peggy Holloway,
senior credit officer at Moody’s, said in a telephone interview.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and BBB- at Standard & Poor’s. Issuers rated in the Caa
category by Moody’s “are subject to very high credit risk.’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Robinson in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .
David Holley in New York at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  