-- Aussie Strength Allows Economy to Run Lower Rates, Swan Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-11-01T22:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/aussie-s-strength-allows-economy-to-run-lower-rates-swan-says.html
Australia ’s economy can operate with
lower  interest rates  than it has in the past as overseas
investors buttress the local currency that is helping contain
inflation, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “Australia is now seen as a necessary part of any
portfolio, whether it be private or public investors -- and
these investment flows have propped up our sustained high
dollar,” Swan said in a speech in  Melbourne  yesterday. “This,
combined with our fiscal consolidation and contained inflation,
has all meant that our economy has more room to run lower rates
than we have in the past.”  By highlighting the benefits of an elevated local dollar,
Swan is pivoting from his past concern about the impact of its
strength on industries including manufacturing and tourism. The
change of focus coincides with a rebound in the government’s
ratings in opinion polls and follows the steepest rate cuts
among major developed economies in the past year.  Swan and other ministers have pressed the central bank to
lower borrowing costs and stimulate the economy as the
government bids for a A$44 billion ($46 billion) swing back to
the black in time for an election due by late next year.  There has been “a rebalancing in monetary and fiscal
policy, which has not been widely remarked upon,” Swan said in
the speech to the 2012 Economic and Social Outlook conference
before he heads to a Group of 20 meeting in  Mexico .  Surplus Goal  The government, in a midyear review released in Canberra
last week, forecast a budget surplus of A$1.08 billion in the 12
months ending June 30. It recorded a A$43.7 billion deficit last
fiscal year.  Swan is trying to end four years of deficits as prices ease
for key exports in response to a slowing Chinese economy.  Commodity prices fell 2.2 percent in October from the
previous month in Australian dollar terms, a  Reserve Bank  of
Australia gauge showed yesterday. The index has slumped 19.1
percent over the past year, it showed.  The RBA reduced the overnight cash-rate target by 1.5
percentage points to  3.25 percent  since November last year.
Traders are pricing in a 51 percent chance the central bank will
cut rates again next week, according to swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The ruling  Labor Party  has narrowed the opposition Liberal-
National coalition’s lead among voters and drawn level,
according to a Newspoll survey published in the Australian
newspaper on Oct. 29.  Adjustable Rates  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government is benefiting
from lower borrowing costs in an economy where about 90 percent
of mortgages have floating rates.  Australia’s core consumer prices rose an average 2.5
percent last quarter from a year earlier, in the middle of the
central bank’s target range, a government report showed last
month. The nation’s unemployment rate was 5.4 percent in
September.  Australia has lost 37,000 manufacturing jobs in the past
two years and 70,000 in construction in the past 12 months as
the currency’s strength, fueled by investors seeking exposure to
China’s demand for resources, lowers import costs.  RBA Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  this week addressed the
connection between his nation’s elevated currency and higher
returns available relative to economies such as the U.S. and
 Europe  where rates are near zero.  The local dollar, which has surged 54 percent in the past
four years, traded at $1.0404 at 9:13 a.m. in Sydney.  Global Sluggishness  In the speech yesterday, Swan said he will urge G-20
colleagues to support jobs and growth in the near term in order
to avoid putting more pressure on a “rickety” global recovery.  The world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest since the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next year, the
 International Monetary Fund  said Oct. 9. That compares with July
predictions of 3.5 percent in 2012 and 3.9 percent in 2013.  “I, for one, don’t think a global growth rate with a three
in front of it is going to cut the mustard,” Swan said. “That
kind of growth is not enough to make inroads into reducing the
stubbornly high rates of unemployment in much of the developed
world, and so is not a sustainable path for our future.”  Swan said he will travel on to  Washington  next week for
meetings with officials including Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde .  In a statement today, the treasurer also said he plans to
meet with U.S. Congressional Budget Office Director Douglas Elmendorf “to get a first-hand assessment of the risks
presented to the US economy from the fiscal cliff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  