-- Aussie Trades Near Two-Week High as China Factory Data Improves
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-11-01T04:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/aussie-trades-near-two-week-high-as-china-factory-data-improves.html
Australia ’s dollar traded near its
strongest level in two weeks after an improvement in
manufacturing gauges in  China , the South Pacific nation’s
biggest trading partner.  The so-called Aussie rose for a third day against the yen
ahead of next week’s policy decision by the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia. Demand for the Australian and New Zealand dollars was
limited as investors awaited the last jobs report in the U.S.
before the presidential election.  “We’ve been seeing a pickup in the Chinese economy,” said
Takuya Kawabata, an analyst at Gaitame.com Research Institute
Ltd. in  Tokyo , a unit of  Japan ’s largest currency margin
company. “The improved sentiment about China can create upward
pressure for the Aussie.”  The Australian dollar bought $1.037 as of 3:51 p.m. in
Sydney, little changed from the close yesterday when it touched
$1.04, the highest since Oct. 18. It added 0.3 percent to 83.02
yen, after earlier reaching 83.18, the strongest since Oct. 26.
The  New Zealand dollar  fetched 82.20 U.S. cents from 82.25 and
traded at 65.80 yen, up 0.3 percent.  Australian  bonds  were little changed, with the yield on the
10-year note at 3.13 percent.  China Manufacturing  An official gauge of Chinese manufacturing based on a
survey of  purchasing managers  climbed to 50.2 in October from
49.8 in September. It was the first time since July that the
gauge has been above the 50 level that separates expansion from
contraction.  A similar  measure  published by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics rose to 49.5 in October from 47.9 the prior month, a
separate report showed.  The Shanghai Composite Index of stocks rose 1.8 percent.
China is Australia’s largest trading partner and New Zealand’s
second-biggest export market.  Overnight index swaps data compiled by Bloomberg indicate
about a 56 percent chance that the RBA will lower its key rate
to 3 percent from 3.25 percent at its Nov. 6 meeting. That
compares with a 95 percent probability seen on Oct. 23, the day
before data showed a faster-than-expected gain in Australia’s
consumer prices.  RBA Outlook  “Two reasons we believe the RBA should pause is that both
Chinese activity and local inflation pressures are firmer than
expected,” said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research
at TD Securities in  Singapore . “The RBA can afford to pause at
3.25 percent and ‘wait and see’ for the next round of monthly
data, as well as assess the impact to date of previous easing.”  The Australian Industry Group and PricewaterhouseCoopers
said today their  manufacturing index  was at 45.2 last month
compared with 44.1 in September. The index has held below 50,
indicating a contraction, for eight consecutive months.  The U.S. Labor Department will issue its monthly report on
employment tomorrow as scheduled after the Atlantic storm Sandy
closed government offices for two days this week, a spokesman
said yesterday. The jobs report may help sway voters trying to
decide between giving President  Barack Obama  another four years
in office or to change course with Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .  Nonfarm payrolls may have increased by 125,000 workers in
October and the jobless rate probably rose to 7.9 percent,
according to the median projections of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “By and large we are still in range trading” ahead of the
U.S. jobs report, said TD’s Beacher. “No one is really putting
any risk on the table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  