-- Australian Cycling Team GreenEDGE Fires Director Over Doping
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-01T07:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/australian-cycling-team-greenedge-fires-director-over-doping.html
The Orica-GreenEDGE cycling team,
 Australia ’s only professional road squad, fired sport director
Matt White after he admitted to doping during his racing career.  White, 38, had stood down from the role Oct. 13 after he
admitted to taking performance-enhancing drugs on  Lance Armstrong ’s U.S. Postal Service team from 2001 to 2003. He was
fired by Cycling Australia as coordinator of its men’s national
road teams on Oct. 17.  GreenEDGE said today in a  statement  on its website that
White would be leaving the team “effective immediately.” The
team also said it will conduct a full external review of its
policies and procedures that will be led by Nicki Vance, a
former director of the  World Anti-Doping Agency .  “Professional cycling is at a crossroads,” GreenEDGE
owner Gerry Ryan said in the statement. “The future of the
sport is being determined by what we do today. OGE will not step
back from taking any necessary decision to protect the integrity
of the sport and the team and to restore the confidence of
cycling fans around the world.”  The review will encompass all riders and team members and
recommend and oversee any changes to GreenEDGE’s anti-doping
policies, protocols and recruitment procedures, the statement
added.  White’s admission came after he was mentioned in the U.S.
Anti-Doping Agency’s report that resulted in Armstrong being
stripped of all seven of his Tour de France victories. The
International Cycling Union opted not to appeal the USADA’s
ruling. Armstrong, who has denied doping and said he never
failed a drug test, declined to take the USADA case to
arbitration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  