-- Avon Third-Quarter Net Falls as Sales Drop in China, U.K.
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-11-01T14:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/avon-third-quarter-net-falls-as-sales-drop-in-china-u-k-.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , the cosmetics
seller that named a new chief executive officer after three
years of declining earnings, said third-quarter profit fell 81
percent as sales fell in the U.K. and  China .  Net income dropped to $31.6 million, or 7 cents a share,
from $164.2 million, or 38 cents, a year earlier, New York-based
Avon said today in a statement. Excluding some items, profit was
17 cents a share. The average of 14 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg was 23 cents.  Chief Executive Officer Sheri McCoy, who took over in
April, said today she was lowering the company’s dividend and
plans to cut $400 million in costs in the next three years while
boosting sales at a mid-single-digit percentage rate. Third-
quarter sales fell 25 percent in the U.K. and 31 percent in
China as the number of active representatives dropped 1 percent.  “It’s still unclear the extent of Avon’s operational
issues and the amount of time and investment” that will be
needed to fix them, Tim Conder, an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co .
in  St. Louis , wrote today in a note. He rates Avon market
perform, the equivalent of a hold.  The shares rose 1.9 percent to $15.79 at 10:26 a.m. in  New
York . Avon fell 11 percent this year through yesterday.  Sales Decline  Total revenue fell 7.7 percent to $2.55 billion. The
average estimate of 11 analysts was $2.59 billion. Excluding the
effect of foreign-currency fluctuations, sales rose 1 percent.  In  North America , revenue declined 6 percent in the main
business, hurt by fewer representatives, and dropped 25 percent
in its Silpada jewelry unit.  The quarterly dividend will shrink to 6 cents a share from
23 cents as part of a review of the company’s capital structure,
Avon said today. The company also set a goal of boosting revenue
at a mid-single-digit percentage rate for the next three years
and cutting costs by at least $400 million, mainly through
reducing selling, general and administrative expenses.  McCoy succeeded  Andrea Jung , who had a 13-year tenure
leading Avon that included declining earnings, a bribery
investigation and a rejected $10.7 billion takeover offer from
 Coty Inc. (COTY)  earlier this year. Jung will step down as executive
chairman at the end of the year and be succeeded by Fred Hassan,
currently the company’s lead independent director.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  