-- Banks Need More Capital to Protect Against Rogue Traders
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-11-01T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/banks-need-more-capital-to-protect-against-rogue-traders.html
Banks deemed to be too-big-to-fail
should hold more capital reserves to protect against operational
risks, such as rogue traders, regulatory fines and fraudulent
employees, the Financial Stability Board said.  Supervisors found “real weaknesses in the assessment of
capital for operational risk and in the models used and their
assumptions,” the FSB, a group of global regulators, said in a
report today. The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  should
update its capital guidelines to reflect the importance of the
issue by the end of 2014, the FSB said.  Global regulators have observed mistakes and scandals at
some of the world’s largest banks in the last year.  JPMorgan 
Chase & Co. (JPM)  lost at least $6.2 billion this year after
failing to manage flawed positions on synthetic credit
securities,  UBS AG (UBSN)  lost $2.3 billion after an unauthorized
trading scandal in  London , and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined 290
million pounds ($468 million) in June over manipulations of
interbank lending rates.  “The recent spate of high-profile, and potentially
solvency-threatening, operational risk events and failures have
added urgency to fundamentally reviewing these capital
approaches,” the FSB said.  Lehman Brothers  The capital surcharges for systemic banks come on top of
agreements by the Basel committee to more than triple the core
reserves that lenders have to hold against possible losses.
The so-called Basel III rules are intended to apply fully
starting in 2019 and are designed to protect taxpayer money
from the types of bank bailouts seen after the 2008 collapse
of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.  Large international lenders would have faced a 374.1
billion-euro ($484 billion) shortfall in the capital needed to
meet Basel III had it been in force at the end of 2011, the
Basel group said in September. The figure factors in the
surcharges for globally systemic banks.  The FSB also recommended today that regulators intensify
oversight of banks deemed too-big-to-fail, and become more
intrusive in how they assess lenders’ succession planning, risk
culture and the effectiveness of their boards, the FSB said in a
statement.  Global regulators today trimmed their list of 29 banks that
must hold additional capital down to 28. The list is published
in advance of a Nov. 4 meeting in  Mexico  of finance officials
from the world’s biggest economies.  SIFI List  The FSB last year published a list of 29 so-called globally
systemic banks that should have to hold more capital than
required by other international agreements.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
JPMorgan,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  were provisionally earmarked to face the top
level of surcharges, set at 2.5 percent of risk-weighted assets.  The FSB said last year that regulators would update the
list on an annual basis, with each revision to be published in
November. The FSB brings together central bankers, regulators
and government officials from G-20 nations to coordinate
financial rulemaking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  