-- Beach Repairs After Sandy May Cost $8 Million a Mile
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-11-01T16:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/beach-repairs-after-sandy-may-cost-8-million-a-mile.html
Superstorm Sandy washed away beaches
and sent raw sewage and  diesel fuel  into waterways, leaving an
environmental repair bill for  New York  and  New Jersey  exceeding
$100 million.  The harm to wildlife and habitats probably will be
extensive given the strength and duration of the storm, Larry
Ragonese, press director for the New Jersey Department of
Environmental Protection, said yesterday in an interview.  “We’ve lost beaches,” Ragonese said. “We’ve lost dunes.
We’ve lost wetlands. We’ve lost habitat for endangered species.
The environmental impacts are tremendous.”  Officials are working to contain about 336,000 gallons of
diesel fuel that leaked from a storage tank into the Arthur
Kill, the tidal strait that separates New York and New Jersey,
he said. Most fuel has been contained, Ragonese said today.  State officials say they are concentrating on restoring
electricity and other basic services to residents affected by
the storm, which at its peak knocked out power to 8 million
homes and businesses in the mid-Atlantic and  New England . The
storm is blamed for more than 70 deaths in the U.S., according
to the  Associated Press .  Restoring or repairing a beach can cost $5 million to $8
million a mile, said Howard Marlowe, a lobbyist whose clients
include the American Shore and Beach Preservation Association, a
group made up of coastal communities.  South Jersey  Beaches south of  Atlantic City , near where Sandy made
landfall late Oct. 29, don’t appear to have suffered as much
damage as coastlines and barrier islands to the north, Marlowe,
who represents the New Jersey beach town of Avalon, said in an
interview. The state has about 130 miles of Atlantic coastline.  Marlowe said he didn’t expect the total beach-repair costs
to exceed $100 million, which he said is about the amount
Congress appropriates to the U.S. Corps of Engineers each year
for coastal restoration projects nationwide. His total excluded
costs for environmental remedies beyond the beaches.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, said the state
issued emergency declarations to expedite construction permits
and speed work in coastal areas. A statement from Cuomo’s office
said Fire Island, Moriches Inlet, Cupsoque County Park and Long
Beach in Suffolk and Nassau counties, among other areas, were
significantly damaged by Sandy and need of restoration.  ‘Hit Harder’  President  Barack Obama  declared a major disaster for New
York and New Jersey, a state he said yesterday “got hit harder
than anybody,” making both eligible for U.S. aid. Federal
assistance includes money to restore and replenish beaches that
communities, such as those on the Jersey shore, depend on for
tourists and economic growth.  The  U.S. Geological Survey  estimated more than 90 percent
of the beaches in New Jersey and on New York’s  Long Island 
suffered erosion from Sandy, though the extent of the damage had
yet to be measured.  Delaware ’s beaches recently underwent a $30 million
restoration that included adding sand and building dunes to
protect shoreline communities from a storm surge. Those
improvements helped limit Sandy’s damage to resort towns such as
Rehoboth Beach and Lewes, said Collin O’Mara, Delaware
environment and energy secretary.  Superfund Pollution  In New Jersey, among the biggest concerns raised by
environmental groups is pollution on federal Superfund sites
that were flooded by Sandy’s surge leeching into water systems
or elsewhere in ecosystems where they can linger for years.  “Some of the most-toxic sites in America are along these
waterfront areas,” said  Jeff Tittel , director of the  Sierra
Club ’s New Jersey chapter. “In floodwaters you have a witches’
brew of toxic chemicals and raw sewage.”  One Superfund site is a seawall made of lead slag, a
byproduct of metal smelting, on the Raritan Bay, which borders
New York’s Staten Island. Tittel said the wall was breached in
Sandy’s storm surge.  More than 630 calls were placed to a spill hotline managed
by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation
after Sandy came ashore, the agency said.  Steve Apfelbaum, who studies how ecosystems recover from
disturbances such as hurricanes or wildfires, said storms
similar to Sandy carry oil, solvents, paints from homes and
heavy metals like arsenic or mercury from industrial sites to
waterways.  Fish, Birds  Storm surge  can stir up toxic soil sediments and it can
take three years or longer for an affected area to return to
pre-storm conditions, Apfelbaum said. The number of fish may
decline and birds will have more difficulty creating nests, he
said.  “There are all sorts of repercussions associated with what
we’re seeing on the East Coast,” said Apfelbaum, who co-wrote a
book on restoring ecologies and teaches an ecology course at
 Harvard University .  South of New Jersey, environmentalists were concerned that
Sandy might add to pollution in the Chesapeake Bay. Storm water
flowing through sewers typically accounts for about 20 percent
of the pollution dumped in the largest U.S. estuary, said Josh
Tulkin, Maryland director for the Sierra Club.  “There’s just a lot of gross stuff: trash, syringes,
condoms, plastic bags,” that the runoff carries into the Bay,
Tulkin said.  Drought Benefits  Overall, pollution flowing into the Bay is less troubling
than expected in part because drought conditions in areas of the
drainage basin allowed creeks and streams to absorb more of
Sandy’s rains, said Bruce Michael, director of resource
assessment for the Maryland Department of Natural Resources.  “It’s not nearly as bad as it could have been if we had
gotten a direct hit,” he said.  The flow of the Susquehanna River, the largest tributary
into the Chesapeake Bay, is forecast to be 155,000 cubic feet a
second, or about 20 percent of the rate after  Hurricane Irene 
last year, the USGS said. The record is 1.1 million during
Hurricane Agnes in 1972.  “We are simply grateful for the health of the Chesapeake
that Sandy didn’t follow Irene’s example,” USGS Director  Marcia McNutt  said.  While storm damage was concentrated in New Jersey and New
York, beaches from Cape Hatteras in  North Carolina ’s Outer Banks
to the south shore of Long Island were affected.  “It’s the geographic extent that is really incredible
here,” said Hilary Stockdon, a USGS spokeswoman.  Erosion Estimate  USGS said 91 percent of the beaches on the Delmarva
Peninsula, which includes parts of Delaware, Maryland and
 Virginia , had some erosion. More than half were forecast to have
had “overwash,” which occurs when storm surge or waves push
sand inland instead of out to sea.  Overwash erosion makes it harder to beaches to recover
naturally, because normal tidal currents can’t push the sand
back to shore, Stockdon said.  Gene Pawlik, a spokesman for the U.S.  Army Corps  of
Engineers, which runs the federal beach restoration program,
said beaches that have been restored are eligible for more aid.
He said it was too early to estimate the potential costs.  “We’ve had very little opportunity to do any sort of
assessment yet on our coastal restoration projects,” Pawlik
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  