-- Blackouts Remain for 4.8 Million as Power Repairs Begin
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-11-01T21:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/blackouts-remain-for-4-8-million-as-power-repairs-begin.html
The pace of power restoration
following  Hurricane Sandy  has fallen behind that of last year’s
 Hurricane Irene , when utilities promised to make improvements
after being lambasted by consumers and local lawmakers for their
slow response.  Four days after the U.S. Energy Department began issuing
notices on the storm, 45 percent of U.S. customers who lost
electricity have been reconnected, compared with 51 percent in
the same period after Hurricane Irene, according to data
analyzed by  Sam Brothwell , senior utilities analyst for
Bloomberg Industries.  About 4.5 million homes and businesses in more than a dozen
states remained without power as of 2 p.m. local time today, the
department reported. That’s after power was restored to 4
million of the estimated 8.5 million customers who lost it
during the storm.  “Folks are really annoyed and impatient,” Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a  Connecticut  Democrat, said today in a phone
interview. “It’s verging on anger at this point.”  Full restoration may take as much as two weeks longer in
New Jersey, where 1.8 million customers, 45 percent of the
state, had no power today.  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE)  said it will have
“the majority” of its customers online in seven days.  “Customers in the hardest-hit areas are expected to be
restored in an additional seven days,” the Akron, Ohio-based
company, owner of Jersey Central Power & Light, said in a
statement yesterday.  Connecticut Investigation  About 350,000 homes and businesses in Connecticut, hit last
year both by Irene in August and an unseasonably early snowstorm
that downed trees and power lines in October, are without power,
according to the Energy Department.  “They are watching crews go elsewhere,” Blumenthal said.
“They’ve seen this movie.”  Connecticut Governor  Dan Malloy , also a Democrat,
investigated last year’s storm responses by  Northeast Utilities (NU) ’
Connecticut Light & Power and United Illuminating, the utility
unit of  UIL Holdings Corp. (UIL)  After the investigation identified
failures and weaknesses, the state imposed tighter standards.  “The utilities are better prepared,” Blumenthal said.
“Whether they are adequately prepared remains to be seen. The
proof is in the results.”  New York City utility owner  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED)  wasn’t
prepared for the record 14-foot (4.3-meter) tide, higher than
forecast, that overwhelmed lower  Manhattan , flooding its
underground electrical system, John McAvoy, senior vice
president for central operations for Con Edison, told reporters
Oct. 30.  Sandbagging Substations  Public Service Electric & Gas Co., the utility for about
three-quarters of  New Jersey ’s population, sandbagged electrical
substations to avoid a repeat of Irene’s flood damage. It
couldn’t prepare for the “wall of water” that arrived with
Sandy, Ralph Larossa, the utility’s president, said on a
conference call with reporters Oct. 30.  Effective storm restoration began about two days after the
storm and initially was at a pace slightly faster than that
following Irene, according to Brothwell’s chart of Energy
Department data. That head start vanished today, he wrote.  “By day four, day five, patience will start to run thin,”
Gregg Edeson, a Los Angeles-based utility industry consultant
and executive at PA Consulting, said in an Oct. 30 interview.
“I really do think you’ll see a better coordinated effort, but
at the end of the day, it’s going to take some time to get
customers restored.”  Frustrated Customers  “We know people are frustrated because they don’t see
crews, but we are coming,” said Chris Eck, a spokesman for
Jersey Central Power & Light. Workers have been focused on
restoring high-voltage transmission lines, and then moving on to
sub-transmission and substations, Eck said in a telephone
interview. Once repairs are done at substations, crews will move
into neighborhoods.  As of 8 a.m. local time, 830,000 Jersey Central customers
lacked power, Eck said. The utility has restored power to
370,000 customers.  “The storm did massive damage to our entire
infrastructure,” Eck said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  