-- Boston Scientific’s CEO Eyes Innovation to Fuel Growth
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-11-02T20:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/boston-scientific-s-ceo-eyes-innovation-to-fuel-growth.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ’s  Michael Mahoney , who took the helm yesterday as chief executive officer,
says innovation and smooth integration of recent acquisitions
will return the company to growth next year.  The Natick, Massachusetts-based maker of heart devices has
been on a buying spree. Last quarter, it purchased BridgePoint
Medical Inc. for its product to treat totally blocked arteries
and Rhythmia Medical Inc., which makes equipment to guide
doctors during heart procedures. It’s also branching out with
treatments for asthma, minimally invasive heart valve repair and
novel defibrillators.  Analysts are  betting  against Mahoney’s goal of revenue
growth in 2013, which would be the first increase since 2009.
The company, which posted  revenue  of $7.6 billion in 2011, may
generate $7.3 billion this year and $7.2 billion in 2013,
according to the average estimates of 20 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. The forecasts don’t daunt Mahoney.  “We’ve had declining growth each quarter in 2012. We
clearly want to turn that around in 2013,” he said in a
telephone interview, without giving a specific sales target.
“We’re absolutely a turn-around story.”  Folding the new products and companies into Boston
Scientific will be a key challenge as the company has struggled
with acquisitions in the past, Jason McGorman, an analyst with
Bloomberg Industries, said in a telephone interview. It has
recently written down costs linked to the purchases of Guidant
Corp. and Sadra Medical, he said.  Acquisition Risks  “It’s always a little dangerous when you have assets you
didn’t develop internally,” McGorman said. “It’s hard to gauge
what will be a risk in the future. You have seen the history
with those acquisitions and the write downs. That is what makes
people nervous.”  Boston Scientific has had recent success getting novel
 products , including new types of stents used to open blocked
arteries and defibrillators to shock irregular heartbeats, to
the market.  The Synergy stent, which is coated with a drug and polymer
that dissolves within three months to allow the artery to heal,
was approved yesterday in  Europe . The U.S. approved its S-ICD, a
defibrillator that doesn’t require leads to be attached to the
heart, five weeks ago. Boston Scientific bought the
defibrillator technology in June.  Mahoney is aware of the danger of overextending the
company. Still, he’s unwilling to rule out additional
 acquisitions , joint ventures or investments in smaller companies
developing cutting-edge technologies.  ‘Drive Value’  “We’ll always look at acquisitions that will drive value
for us and fit in with our strategic plan,” he said,
acknowledging that integration can take a lot of time. “It’s
important that we don’t stack up too many acquisitions that pull
on the same resources” within the company.  Boston Scientific has a number of restructuring efforts
under way in manufacturing and research and development, Mahoney
said. It’s also in the process of changing its business
operations to have a more global outlook, while fine-tuning the
U.S. sales model to directly target hospital and supply chain
executives in addition to doctors who implant the company’s
growing portfolio of new products, he said.  While numerous medical technology companies have blamed
lackluster results on the sluggish global economy, Mahoney says
Boston Scientific’s recent restructuring and investments give it
control of its own fate.  Overseas Markets  “It will certainly be easier once the economy turns
around, but we can return to growth with the plans we have in
place,” Mahoney said. “We improved our gross margins last
quarter despite the sales decline. You also have to look at
where you can grow,” he said, highlighting international
markets including India and  Brazil .  The company’s shares have declined 5.6 percent since
Mahoney arrived at Boston Scientific on Oct. 17. Formerly the
worldwide chairman of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s medical device and
diagnostic group, Mahoney served as Boston Scientific’s
president for a year while he fulfilled his post-employment
obligations to  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J.  Boston Scientific fell less than 1 percent to $5.20 at the
close of  New York  trading.  “It’s been a tough ride,” McGorman said. “They have made
a lot of progress, but it’s been a long time coming.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  