-- BP Spill Settlement Opt-Outs to Increase With Deadline Today
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-11-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/bp-spill-settlement-opt-outs-to-increase-with-deadline-today.html
Lawyers for as many as 10,000
potential plaintiffs pursuing claims over  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 2010  Gulf of
Mexico   oil spill  said their clients today will opt out or reject
the company’s $7.8 billion settlement reached in March.  “I’m not trying to hold the settlement hostage, but there
are too many technical problems” with the claims process, said
Houston-based lawyer  Brent Coon , who said he will opt out as
many as 5,000 clients today. The process set up after the
agreement was reached has been “slow, arduous and
unexplainable,” Coon said.  The agreement, which settled claims of most private party
plaintiffs, covers hundreds of thousands of individuals,
businesses and property owners who say they were harmed by the
largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history. Plaintiffs included
in the settlement faced a deadline today to choose to accept the
terms of the agreement or pursue claims on their own.  The opt-outs have been a limited percentage of the
potential plaintiffs seeking compensation from BP for economic
losses or medical claims. By Oct. 19, the total number of opt-
outs had reached 983, including some filed by plaintiffs who
aren’t part of the settlement, BP said in court papers seeking
final approval of the  agreement .  “Given the tiny number of opt-outs to date and the large
size of the class, it is no exaggeration that the number of opt-
outs would still weigh in favor of final approval even if it
were to increase by a factor of 10, 20, or far more before the
Nov. 1 opt-out deadline,” BP said in an Oct. 22 filing.  Deal Intact  The opt-outs, even at increased levels, won’t stop or
hamper the settlement, said  Steve Herman , one of the lead
lawyers on the plaintiffs’ steering committee. The PSC
negotiated the settlement with BP and also represents plaintiffs
who aren’t part of the agreement.  “There is very little chance that the deal will fall apart
based on the number of opt outs,” Herman said in an e-mail.
“Compared to the thousands and thousands of claims that have
been filed, and recognized, the number of opt outs is very
low.”  The blowout and  explosion  aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig killed 11 workers and started millions of barrels
of crude leaking into the gulf. The accident prompted hundreds
of lawsuits against BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier,
Switzerland-based owner and operator of the rig; and  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services.  Two Classes  BP’s $7.8 billion proposed partial settlement of private
claims, which is pending final court approval, was reached March
2, days before a trial on liability for the spill. The
settlement establishes two separate classes, one for economic
loss and the other for physical injuries related to the spill or
the cleanup.  “BP believes that the settlement is an historic resolution
that is fair and reasonable and amply meets all the legal
requirements for final approval by the Court,”  Scott Dean , a
spokesman for the London-based company, said in an e-mail.  “The settlement is a superior alternative to continued
lengthy litigation, provides numerous unique claimant-friendly
benefits, and fulfills BP’s commitment to pay all legitimate
claims stemming from the Deepwater Horizon accident,” Dean
said.  The settlement excludes claims of financial institutions,
casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of  Florida  and  Texas , and
residents and businesses claiming harm from the Obama
administration’s moratorium on deep-water drilling prompted by
the spill. It also doesn’t cover federal government claims and
those of Gulf Coast states  Louisiana  and  Alabama , or lawsuits
against co-defendants.  BP Partners  The U.S. sued BP, Transocean and BP’s partners in the well,
 Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX Offshore 2007 and The Woodlands, Texas-based
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , alleging violations of federal
pollution laws. MOEX has settled the federal claims.  BP has been in negotiations with the  U.S. Department of
Justice  to settle the federal claims as well, the company said
in an Oct. 30 regulatory filing. BP has provisioned about $38.1
billion for spill costs and has paid more than $8 billion in
compensation to individuals, businesses and government entities
so far.  The partial private party settlement was granted
preliminary approval in May and will be considered at a so-
called fairness hearing Nov. 8, when U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans will hear objections to the agreement.
Objections are filed complaining about the fairness of a
settlement; opt-outs are filed by members of a class who were
included in a settlement who want to pursue litigation on their
own.  250 Objections  About 250 objections to the economic loss and medical
benefits settlements have been filed, an expert for BP said in
court papers Oct. 22. There are about 200,000 people in the
medical benefits class and “only about 20” of the objections
related to this part of the settlement, BP expert Robert H.
Klonoff said in the Oct. 22 filing. More than 80,000 economic
loss claims have been filed with the settlement program, BP said
in court papers.  “A very high percentage of claimants are accepting the
offers made” by the claims program, “evidencing their
satisfaction with the process,” Dean said.  The objections to the proposed agreement range from
complaints by lawyers representing thousands of fisherman and
coastal property owners to the state of Alabama to a seven-page,
handwritten letter by a Florida innkeeper who claimed her
settlement with BP didn’t cover her  losses , taxes and medical
bills.  Want It  “Many of the objections are from people who are outside of
the settlement and want to get into the deal,” Herman said.  Many of the objections contend that the settlement provides
wide disparity in compensation. Wolf Bay LLC, which owns a large
coastal wetlands in Alabama, complained in a September court
filing that “the settlement agreement provides a compensation
framework for Louisiana wetland properties, but excludes those
same wetland properties in  Mississippi , Alabama and Florida.”  Some plaintiffs opting out of the settlement have also
objected to it, according to their lawyers. Only the plaintiffs
included in the settlement classes had the right to opt out or
object.  Lawyers are advising some clients to opt out of the
settlement because they haven’t been offered enough compensation
or still don’t know what they may receive, Coon said in an
interview.  ‘Decent Money’  “If I think a client is going to get decent money under
the settlement, I’ll leave him in. If I don’t think so, I’ll
pull him out,” Coon said. “If I don’t know, then I’ll pull him
out too because of an abundance of caution to protect his
rights.”  “We’re opting out most of them,”  New Orleans  attorney
Douglas Schmidt said, referring to about 1,600 of his 1,800
spill-related clients who will refuse to participate in the
settlement.  Many of his clients are oilfield workers claiming medical
injuries stemming from toxic exposure to crude and dispersants
during the spill and cleanup. Settlement offers have been too
low, he said. “These workers have significant injuries.”  The medical benefits settlement doesn’t “adequately
compensate” people with personal injury claims related to
exposure to oil or dispersants, said New Orleans attorney Mike
Stag, who said his firm would opt out most of these clients.
“The maximum payment is pretty low.”  Lifelong Injuries  These claimants are “going to have lifelong injuries that
are already starting to manifest,” he said. “Toxically injured
folks deteriorate over time and can be hard to diagnose.”  All spill-damages claims are presently being processed
through the court-supervised Deepwater Horizon Claims Center in
Louisiana, which is supervised by lawyer Patrick Juneau, who was
appointed by Barbier. The center took over June 5 from the Gulf
Coast Claims Facility, which had been administering BP’s claims-
payment process since the spill under the direction of attorney
 Kenneth Feinberg .  Today’s opt-out deadline has forced claimants to make
decisions before knowing how much or whether they’ll be paid,
said attorney Tony Buzbee, who represents 12,000 clients
alleging injuries and economic damages from the incident. Buzbee
said thousands of his clients will opt out as a result.  Releasing BP  “If you don’t opt out, you are settling, and how can you
settle if you don’t know what you’re going to get?” he asked.
By remaining in the settlement, claimants are releasing BP from
further litigation without knowing what the company intends to
pay on their claim, he said.  The settlement program “is going to put money in people’s
pockets faster and with more predictability than litigation,”
Herman, the PSC leader said. “Who knows how long opt outs might
have to wait, or what, if anything, they might recover? That
being said, the process has picked up exponentially over the
past few weeks.”  Buzbee agreed that Juneau is processing more offers and
determinations in recent weeks. “I wish we could’ve pushed the
opt-out deadline” to allow more time for clients to get firm
offers and determinations from the claims center, he said.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com  