-- Brazil Industrial Output Falls for First Time in Four Months
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-11-01T12:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/brazil-industrial-output-falls-for-first-time-in-four-months-2-.html
Brazil ’s  industrial production  in
September fell more than economists expected and for the first
time in four months, as manufacturers struggle to regain their
footing after a yearlong slowdown.  Industrial output fell 1 percent in September, the national
statistics agency said today in  Rio de Janeiro , after a revised
gain of 1.7 percent in August. Economists had  expected  output to
fall 0.5 percent from the previous month, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 43 analysts. Output
fell 3.8 percent from the year before, compared with a median
forecast of a decline of 3.3 percent from 33 economists
surveyed.  “This does not represent a good outlook for the sector,”
 Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA,
said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “It is an alert
for the government that they need to maintain stimulus because
industry is not capable of growing by itself. Business leaders
are still not open to investing and increasing production
capacity.”  The fall in output was broad-based, with 16 sectors out of
27 declining. “What surprised was that the decline was driven
by machines and equipment, which fell 4.8 percent, and not by
automobile sales as expected,” Rostagno said. “Auto sales only
fell 0.7 percent.”  Recovery Signs  The world’s second-largest emerging economy has shown signs
of recovery after President Dilma Rousseff’s administration
boosted tariffs, cut taxes for consumer and industrial goods to
prop up demand, and lowered payroll taxes for 40 industries. The
central bank has also cut the  benchmark rate  to a record 7.25
percent and intervened in  currency markets  to maintain the real
around 2 per dollar, helping to protect domestic industry from
cheaper imports.  In 2012, economic growth in  Japan  and the U.S. will outpace
that of Brazil, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The central bank in September cut its forecast for gross
domestic product expansion this year to 1.6 percent from 2.5
percent, adding that the economy will grow 3.3 percent in the
second quarter of 2013.  Industrial production in August grew at a revised 1.7
percent, the highest level since February 2011. Retail sales
rose for the third straight month in August and leaped 10.1
percent from a year prior.  The September industry decline was largely an adjustment
from the strong results seen the previous month,  David Beker ,
chief Brazil economist for Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said.
Still, year-on-year industrial production remains negative and
will remain so until early 2013, he said.  Capital Goods  “How sustainable the recovery process is will depend on
the outlook for investment in capital goods,” Beker said by
telephone from Sao Paulo on Oct. 31.  Capital goods output, a barometer of investment, fell 0.6
percent in September from August and 14.1 percent from the year
before, the statistics agency said.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , Brazil’s biggest
maker of steel for the  auto industry , a cornerstone of Brazil’s
economy, posted a third consecutive quarterly loss after costs
rose more than sales. The net loss in the third quarter was
143.3 million reais ($70.6 million), compared with a profit of
103 million reais a year earlier, the company said today in a
regulatory filing.  Analysts covering Brazil  forecast  that industrial
production will grow 4.1 percent in 2013 following a 2.1 percent
contraction this year, according to the latest central bank
survey of about 100 economists.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 7.31 percent at 9:51 a.m. local time. The
real was little changed at 2.0306 per  U.S. dollar .  Inventories  Industrial inventory levels in September were “very
close” to companies’ planned levels for the first time since
April 2011, according to a survey by Brazil’s national industry
confederation, known as CNI, of 1,790 companies.  The cost of maintaining high inventories has been a burden
to industry, and lower levels open the door to increasing
production, though only slowly, Marcelo Azevedo, a CNI economist
and industrial policy analyst, said.  “After a long period of high inventories, industry will
have difficultly betting big,” Azevedo said by telephone from
Brasilia on Oct. 31. “Companies need clearer signs of demand to
increase activity in a stronger way.”  Inventory levels that have returned to normal among
automobile manufacturers “means they will have to increase
production and investment,” Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told
reporters at the Sao Paulo auto show on Oct. 24.  Tax Cuts  Rousseff the same day announced a decision to extend tax
cuts on car purchases, which had been scheduled to expire at the
end of October. The tax cuts helped fuel a surge in car sales to
a  record  420,080 units in August. Car sales fell 31 percent in
September.  Cledorvino Belini, the president of Brazilian carmakers’
association known as Anfavea, said at the auto show that he
foresees 60 billion reais in investment for the auto industry.  Auto Factories  On Oct. 23,  Portugal ’s Tricos Districar became the latest
car manufacturer to announce investment plans for a factory, to
be built in Espirito Santo state with annual capacity of 50,000
to 60,000 units. The day before, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,
the largest maker of  luxury vehicles , announced plans to build a
200 million euro ($259 million) factory in Santa Catarina state.  “Brazil is one of few countries that is attracting new
investments in the automobile industry,” Mantega said at the
auto show. “We want an automobile industry in Brazil that grows
regardless of a crisis affecting other economies.”  The tax cuts on autos are set to expire at the end of the
year, and on the day of the latest extension Mantega said that
it would “probably” be the last.  “It is very difficult to forecast the auto market for 2013
as we don’t know how the incentive policy of the government will
look,” Volkswagen AG’s Brazil chief, Thomas Schmall, said in
Sao Paulo on Oct. 22. “The elimination of incentives will have
a negative effect on car sales in Brazil. We are all curious to
know how the market will develop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  