-- Eletrobras Slumps to Seven-Year Low in Electricity Rout
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-11-05T13:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/brazil-offers-utility-compensations-of-9-4-billion-for-renewals.html
Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) 
slumped to the lowest level in seven years as a worse-than-
expected compensation proposal by  Brazil ’s government triggered
a selloff of electricity company shares.  Eletrobras, as  South America ’s largest generator is known,
plunged 8.4 percent to 15.38 reais at 10:44 a.m. in  Sao Paulo ,
the lowest since Aug. 30, 2005.  Cia Energetica de Sao Paulo (CESP6) , or
Cesp, fell 7.9 percent and  Cia de Transmissao de Energia
Eletrica Paulista , known as Cteep, lost 5 percent.  The government proposed compensating generation and
transmission companies about 19 billion reais ($9.4 billion) for
the renewal of concessions due to end between 2015 and 2017 as
authorities seek lower power prices. Banco Itau SA cut its
share-price and earnings estimates for Cteep and Cesp after the
Nov. 1 announcement, which UBS AG described in a Nov. 2 note as
“worse-than-expected and more so for Cesp and Eletrobras.”  “Despite the sector’s poor performance since September we
do not believe that it is time to go shopping for these stocks
yet, given the unpredictable risk and the lack of marginal
buyers,” Itau analysts Marcos Severine and Mariana Coelho said
in a report today, reducing their end-2013 share estimates for
Cteep to 30 reais and for Cesp to 18 reais. The proposal trailed
expectations of even “the most bearish investor,” they said.  Eletrobras, whose shares have slumped 42 percent this year,
will receive 14 billion reais if the company agrees to renew its
concession under new rules that lower the revenue of the
companies and the power rates charged as part of a package
announced by President  Dilma Rousseff  in September that aims to
cut prices by as much as 28 percent.  Revenue Reduction  Jose da Costa Carvalho Neto, president of Eletrobras, said
Oct. 31 that he expected to receive “close to” 30 billion
reais in compensation. “We hope it will be close to the book
value of our assets,” he told reporters in Brasilia. The book
value of company assets is 30 billion reais, he said.  The government’s offer of 9.5 reais per megawatt hour to
cover for generation operating costs implies a 70 percent
revenue cut, UBS analysts Lilyanna Yang and Henrique Peretti
said in the report. For transmission companies, the tariffs
signify a 67 percent revenue reduction, they said.  Other companies facing concession renewals are  Cia
Energetica de Minas Gerais , or Cemig. Cemig and Cesp may receive
285.4 million reais and 1 billion reais, respectively, according
to the official gazette. Cemig fell 2.9 percent to 24.21 reais.  Under terms of the proposal, Cteep and  Cia Paranaense de
Energia , known as Copel, would receive 2.9 billion reais and
893.9 million reais, respectively. Copel shares declined 3.6
percent to 29.41 reais.  No Assurances  “In our opinion, Eletrobras, ISA Cteep, Cesp, Cemig and
Copel continue to be names to be avoided in the short term,
simply because no one can assure that we have reached the
bottom,” Itau’s Severine and Coelho said in their report.  Rousseff unveiled her energy plan in September asking
companies to reduce electric rates as of Jan. 1 as a condition
to renew concessions set to expire by 2017.  Brazil’s electricity rates for industrial consumers are
among the highest in the world, averaging more than double those
of  China  and the U.S., according to a report published by the
 Rio de Janeiro  State Industry Federation in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  