-- Brazil Gives Tax Exemption to Foreign Mortgage Investors
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-11-01T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/brazil-gives-tax-exemption-to-foreign-mortgage-investors.html
Brazil  granted a tax exemption to
foreigners who buy mortgage-backed securities or invest in funds
that purchase them after sales of new debt supported by real
estate loans fell almost 50 percent this year.  The tax break only applies if proceeds of the debt are used
on “investment projects” and the bonds have an average
maturity of at least four years, Pablo Fonseca Pereira dos
Santos, deputy secretary of economic policy at the Ministry of
Finance, said in an interview from Brasilia.  “The concept of investment is purposely very broad just to
give market players flexibility,” Pereira dos Santos said. “A
new building is for sure an investment, and so is a house
expansion or a new factory.”  The tax incentives are designed to develop local debt
markets and help raise about 1 trillion reais ($493 billion) for
roads, factories and airports. Local long-term funding is
provided mainly by the nation’s development bank, know as BNDES.
The government is seeking to develop the real estate and
construction industries to boost employment as  economic growth 
slows.  Sales of Brazilian mortgage-backed securities, known as
Certificados de Recebiveis Imobiliarios, or CRIs, dropped 48
percent this year through September to 5.5 billion reais,
according to Anbima, Brazil’s capital-markets association.
Outstanding debt jumped almost 51 percent as of Oct. 17, to 29.8
billion reais from 19.7 billion reais on Jan. 31, 2011,
according to  Cetip SA (CTIP3)  - Mercados Organizados, Brazil’s biggest
securities clearinghouse.  IOF Tax  The tax break applies as long as at least 67 percent of a
real estate fund’s assets are CRIs in the first two years of the
life of the fund, and they increase to 85 percent after that.
Foreign fund investors are exempt from the nation’s income tax
as well as the so-called IOF tax that affects exchange-rate
transactions in Brazil.  Local retail investors are already exempt from taxes on any
kind of CRI or real estate fund, including those not intended
for investment projects.  Many CRIs won’t benefit from the tax exemption for
foreigners because they are used for projects that are already
completed and don’t qualify, according to Fernando Cruz, a
director at  Brazilian Finance and Real Estate Participacoes SA ,
the country’s biggest issuer of mortgage-backed securities.  Foreign investors are more likely to invest in real estate
funds than individual CRIs because they typically seek more
volume, said Michel Gutnik Steinberg, head of real estate at
Brasil Plural SA Banco Multiplo. Investors can also rely on fund
managers to assess risk rather than trying to examine individual
bonds, Steinberg said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  Selling CRIs through real estate funds “is the easiest way
to attract small investors,” including foreigners, Cruz said in
a phone interview. “Investment funds open roads and I have no
doubt it will help the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  