-- BSkyB Profit Beats Estimates on Broadband Connections
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-11-01T13:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/bskyb-profit-beats-estimates-on-broadband-connections.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
reported an increase in fiscal first-quarter operating profit
that beat analyst estimates as the U.K.’s biggest pay-television
provider won customers for high-speed Web access.  Earnings before interest, taxes and other items rose 5.1
percent to 310 million pounds ($500 million) in the three months
ended Sept. 30, the company said in a statement today. Analysts
in a Bloomberg survey had estimated 300 million pounds. The
stock  rose  as much as 5.8 percent in London trading, the most in
more than a year.  BSkyB, which relies on exclusive sports broadcasts to
retain and win subscribers, in June raised spending on English
Premier League soccer rights by 40 percent, agreeing to pay 760
million pounds per season. The Isleworth, England-based company,
39 percent owned by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp., added 48,000
net clients, bringing the total to 10.7 million.  “BSkyB again managed to keep costs under control and win
clients in an difficult economic environment, so earnings came
in better than expected,”  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein Ltd. in London with an underperform rating on the
stock, said via phone. “But the long-term question is whether
BSkyB will be able to continue its fast growth as it already has
a big chunk of the market and more competitors move into the
pay-TV business.”  Web Competition   U.S. streaming-service  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  started offering movies
and TV shows in the U.K. in January and Amazon.com Inc.’s
Lovefilm expanded its service in the same month. In response,
BSkyB is bringing out its own Web-television service, dubbed Now
TV.  BSkyB rose as much as 41 pence to 750 pence and was up 5.6
percent at 749 pence as of 1:23 p.m. The stock declined 3.2 this
year through yesterday, valuing BSkyB at 11.7 billion pounds,
while the U.K. FTSE 100 benchmark index gained 3.8 percent.  To boost average monthly bills, the company has focused on
selling bundled packages that include Internet, TV and telephone
subscriptions.  First-quarter sales rose 3.5 percent to 1.72 billion
pounds, matching analyst estimates. Growth in retail sales more
than offset a “weak quarter” for advertising, the company
said.  Programming costs rose by 10.1 percent to 589 million
pounds and more than half of this increase stemmed from the
first-time inclusion of Formula One broadcasts and the Ryder Cup
golf competition.  Formula One  BSkyB last year won a seven-year agreement to broadcast the
Formula One racing series from March 2012 that ended exclusive
availability on the publicly funded British Broadcasting Corp.
The company spent about 2.2 billion pounds on programming last
year, up 32 percent from 2007, according to Enders Analysis.  BSkyB said in July that it would buy back 750 million
pounds in shares after  News Corp. (NWSA)  abandoned its 7.8 billion-
pound bid for the rest of the company. U.K. lawmakers and
regulators questioned Murdoch’s fitness to own the broadcaster
after journalists at News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit were
caught hacking into phones of celebrities and bribing public
officials for stories.  News Corp. Deputy Chief Operating Officer James Murdoch was
today re-elected to the board of BSkyB with more votes than a
year earlier when some investors said he hadn’t done enough to
clear up the phone-hacking scandal.  ‘Lightning Rod’  Murdoch got 95 percent of votes cast at BSkyB’s annual
shareholder meeting in London. Last year, he was re-elected as
chairman with 81.2 percent before he stepped down
from that role in April, saying the hacking scandal had made him
a “lightning rod” for criticism, while remaining on the board.  In 2007, James Murdoch was put in charge of News Corp.’s
operations throughout Europe and Asia, including the company’s
British newspapers. Testifying before a U.K. parliamentary
committee, he last year blamed executives at the News of
the World tabloid for not telling him in 2008 that intercepting
the phones of celebrities and politicians went beyond a single
reporter.  James Murdoch joined News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit News
International after the hacking took place. Bloomberg LP, the
parent of Bloomberg News, competes with News Corp. units in
providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  