-- BT Advances After Maintaining Forecast for Profit Growth
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-11-01T09:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/bt-group-sales-miss-analysts-estimates-on-europe-crisis.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the biggest fixed-line
phone company in the U.K., advanced after keeping its full-year
profit target as cost cuts helped it avoid a drop in earnings
for the latest quarter.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization were little changed at 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4
billion) in the fiscal second quarter, which ended in September,
London-based BT said today in a statement. Analysts had
 estimated  1.49 billion pounds, according to a Bloomberg survey
of five analysts. The company kept its forecast for Ebitda
growth for the full fiscal year and boosted its dividend.  BT is homogenizing its internal systems to curb costs and
improving  customer service  to reduce turnover, Finance Director
Tony Chanmugam said on a call with reporters today. The company,
trying to halt falling sales as European corporate customers cut
spending amid the debt crisis, said revenue will improve in the
fiscal second half ending in March compared with the first half.  “It’s a gigantic company that has a ton of costs that they
can still cut,”  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein Ltd., said in an interview. Still, “they’re going to
have to work a little bit harder to stay in the same place.”  BT  advanced  6 percent to 225.3 pence at 10:54 a.m. London
time trading after rising as much as 6.1 percent for the biggest
intraday gain since March 23, giving the company a market value
of 17.7 billion pounds. The stock had added 11 percent this year
through yesterday.  Margin Surprise  Adjusted Ebitda as a percentage of revenue rose to 33.5
percent. That was higher than the 32.8 percent analysts had
forecast and the 30.5 percent BT reported a year earlier.  Chief Executive Officer Ian Livingston has been expanding
the company’s high-speed Internet service and targeting
customers in faster growing  markets  in  Asia ,  Latin America  and
the  Middle East  as the company works to offset slower demand
from corporate customers in Europe. BT accelerated its 2.5
billion-pound fiber-broadband rollout for a second time.  Sales declined 8.6 percent to 4.47 billion pounds. Analysts
had predicted 4.55 billion pounds on average. While picking up
in the second half, revenue won’t show “an improved trend” for
the full fiscal year 2013, BT said, contrary to what it
projected in May. Excluding low-margin traffic that BT is
required to carry by regulators, sales declined 5 percent.  Livingston said in July that European business customers
outside the U.K. are committing to smaller contracts and
delaying decisions about phone services.  High-Speed Web  To combat the slowdown in  Europe , BT is rolling out high-
speed fiber optic Web service. The company said today that it
expects to cover two-thirds of the U.K. by the spring of 2014,
18 months ahead of its original schedule, and that it will hire
more than 1,000 engineers this year for the project.  The company has also invested in sports rights, competing
with  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  for English Rugby
matches and Premier League soccer games. The company said it
will release its BT Sport service by next summer.  BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-television provider, reported
today an increase in fiscal first-quarter operating profit that
beat analyst estimates as it won customers for high-speed Web
access.  BT increased its interim dividend by 15 percent to 3 pence
a share. Free  cash flow  will be about the same this fiscal year
as a year earlier, the company projected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  