-- HCA Third-Quarter Profit Gain Meets Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-11-01T20:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/hca-third-quarter-profit-gain-meets-analysts-estimates.html
HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the largest for-
profit U.S. hospital chain, reported third-quarter profit in
line with analysts’ lowered expectations.  Net income jumped sixfold to $360 million, or 78 cents a
share, Nashville, Tennessee-based HCA said today in a statement.
Revenue rose 11 percent to $8.1 billion. Analysts expected
profit of 78 cents a share on sales of about $8 billion,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The estimates were
reduced when HCA on Oct. 16 released preliminary data that fell
short by about 3 cents a share of expectations.  HCA’s businesses, which include 162 hospitals and 112
freestanding outpatient surgery centers, are skewed to emergency
room traffic that is more vulnerable to pricing pressure and
uncompensated care. Most hospitals are seeing increases in
patients who are on Medicare, which has lower reimbursements
than private insurers, said  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst at CRT
Capital in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “It’s happening all over the place,” Skolnick said today
in an interview. “It was a softer quarter. Their expense
control was good and offset some softness in revenue.”  HCA gained 5.6 percent to $30.01 at the close of  New York 
trading after tumbling 10 percent yesterday. The shares have
risen 36 percent this year.  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) , the third-largest publicly traded
U.S. hospital chain, is scheduled to report earnings on Nov. 7.  Industry Consolidation  Revenue growth in the quarter was aided by HCA’s $1.45
billion buyout last year of a partner’s stake in the Denver-
based HealthOne hospital system.  HCA is interested in potential consolidations and
acquisitions, Richard Bracken, chairman and chief executive
officer, said on a conference call today with analysts.  “We feel we have plenty of capacity on the balance sheets
to do any acquisition we choose,” Bracken said. “We are seeing
more activity. The entire industry is seeing it.”  Growth year-over-year in same-facility inpatient and
outpatient admissions, the company’s main measure, slowed to 2.6
percent in the third quarter from a 3.9 percent rate in the
second quarter.  Last year, at least 45 percent of the company’s business
was tied to Medicare, Medicaid and uninsured patients, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Medicare is the U.S. health plan
for the elderly and disabled. Medicaid is the joint U.S.-state
program for the poor.  Patient Base  “We have speculated that HCA has trouble maintaining
quality physicians and professional staff necessary to attract a
more lucrative patient base, resulting in persistent weakness in
higher margin volumes as well as market share,”  Vicki Bryan , an
analyst at debt researcher Gimme Credit LLC, wrote in an Oct. 17
note to clients.  HCA raised $2.5 billion in debt after the preliminary
report, with proceeds being used to repay a  term loan  and issue
a  special dividend  of $2.50 a share to stockholders.  Net income in the year-earlier third quarter was $61
million, or 11 cents a share.  The company was taken public last year by an investment
group led by Bain Capital LLC of  Boston  and New York-based KKR &
Co. in an initial offering that raised $3.79 billion. Bain and
KKR remain the company’s two largest shareholders, with each
holding stakes of about 20 percent, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  The company in August  forecast  full-year profit excluding
one-time items of $3.57 to $3.77 a share and sales of $32
billion to $33 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  