-- California Environmental Law Marked for Biggest Change Since ’70
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-11-01T06:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/california-environmental-law-marked-for-biggest-change-since-70.html
California  lawmakers may consider the
biggest overhaul of the state’s environmental laws in 42 years
with an eye toward speeding up proposed development projects,
Governor  Jerry Brown  and state Senator Michael Rubio said.  Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, said he expects lawmakers to
vote next year on changes to the California Environmental
Quality Act, the 1970 law that requires the state and local
governments to weigh environmental consequences when considering
approval of public and private projects.  California’s environmental laws place limits on
development, require a unique blend of gasoline to reduce smog
and will impose a statewide cap on greenhouse-gas emissions at
1990 levels by 2020. The largest U.S. state by population, with
an unemployment rate of 10.2 percent in September, is frequently
accused of being unfriendly to business.  Changes in the law are “very important” to spur economic
development, Brown said yesterday in  Los Angeles  at a forum to
promote Proposition 30, a ballot measure to raise taxes for
education.  “There are many people who work very well under CEQA and
don’t want to change it,” Brown said about the environmental
act, responding to a question from the audience. “And yet,
changes are needed.”  Brown didn’t disclose specifics. His aides referred
questions to Rubio, a Bakersfield Democrat who is working on a
bill to amend the law.  Streamline Reviews  Rubio said he wants to streamline environmental reviews to
avoid long delays on projects such as the proposed extension of
the subway in Los Angeles and student housing near the
University of  Southern California , which was stymied by a rival
developer’s lawsuit.  Days before the end of the legislative session in August,
an industry organization pressing to modify the law, led by  Carl
Guardino , chief executive officer of the Silicon Valley
Leadership Group, and Jim Earp, executive director of California
Alliance for Jobs, failed to persuade lawmakers to make changes.  In 2011, Brown and Democrats in  Sacramento  offered changes
in the environmental law as part of a proposed deal with
Republicans to put higher taxes for education on the ballot.
Republicans in the state Legislature rejected the overture.  Brown signed a  bill  last year to waive provisions of the
law for a proposed football stadium in  downtown Los Angeles ,
arguing that environmental challenges shouldn’t be allowed to
delay the project indefinitely.  This year, Brown proposed exempting California’s planned
$68 billion high-speed rail project from the law. Under pressure
from environmentalists, the governor backed down from the idea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  