-- Canada Gas Fluctuates on Speculation Mild Weather Will Curb Use
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-11-01T17:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/canada-gas-fluctuates-on-speculation-mild-weather-will-curb-use.html
Canada gas fluctuated as  weather
forecasts  signaled mild average temperatures that may mean
normal heating demand in the U.S.  Gas traded in a range between a decline of more than 1.6
percent and prices that were close to unchanged. Extra heating
demand from a cold front affecting the East Coast will be offset
by power outages there, while the West will have warmer-than-
normal temperatures, according to  Commodity Weather Group LLC  of
Bethesda, Maryland.  “We’re in that period of time where we don’t have a lot of
weather demand yet,” said Carl Neill, a consultant with Risk
Management Inc. in Atlanta. “You do have the cold front from
 Hurricane Sandy , but you do also have a tremendous drop in
demand due to all the power being off.”  December gas in Alberta  dropped 2.75 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to C$3.26 per gigajoule ($3.10 per million British thermal
units) at 12:55 p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian electronic
exchange.  Natural gas for December delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  gained 0.9 cent to $3.701 per million Btu.  The Energy Department said U.S. gas  inventories  rose by 65
billion cubic feet in the week ended Oct. 26 to a record 3.908
trillion cubic feet. Analysts estimates compiled by Bloomberg
predicted a gain of 68 billion.  Power Out  Sandy made landfall near  Atlantic City ,  New Jersey , on Oct.
29, and knocked out power to 8.2 million people, the Energy
Department said. There were still  4.7 million people  without
power today, the agency said.  Average heating demand in the U.S. will be 2 percent above
normal over the next seven days, according to Weather
Derivatives of Belton,  Missouri .  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output from most of Canada’s gas wells, was 15.7 billion cubic
feet at noon  New York  time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 1.43 billion cubic feet
at Empress,  Alberta , where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
rate was 2.09 billion cubic feet.  TransCanada’s  British Columbia system  at Kingsgate had 1.48
billion cubic feet per day of available capacity. The system was
forecast to carry 1.24 billion cubic feet today, 46 percent of
capacity.  The volume on  Spectra Energy Corp.’s  British Columbia
system, which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia
for delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled
2.89 billion cubic feet at 11:50 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  