-- Capitol, Pentagon Bomb-Plotter Gets 17-Year Sentence
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-11-01T20:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/capitol-pentagon-bomb-plotter-gets-17-year-sentence.html
A  Massachusetts  man who pleaded
guilty to plotting to bomb the U.S. Capitol and Pentagon using
remote-controlled aircraft was sentenced to 17 years in prison.  U.S. District Judge Richard Stearns said at a hearing today
in  Boston  that he accepted a plea agreement with Rezwan Ferdaus
that called for a sentence of 17 years and 10 years’ supervised
probation after release.  “No dehumanization can serve as a justification of
inhumanity in other places,” Ferdaus read from a two-page
statement in court. “I happily express the extent to which I
have come to terms with my current situation. I find myself more
learned and grown today than in days past.”  Ferdaus, 27, a graduate of  Northeastern University  with a
bachelor’s degree in physics, designed and built detonation
devices for plastic explosives using mobile phones, according to
his indictment. He supplied 12 mobile phones modified to act as
switches for the explosives to undercover  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation agents he thought worked for al-Qaeda.  He told the agents that he planned to fly two aircraft into
the Pentagon, headquarters of the U.S. Defense Department, and
one into the Capitol, where the  U.S. Congress  meets.  Ferdaus pleaded guilty to attempting to damage a federal
building with an explosive and attempting to provide material
support to terrorists. He had initially pleaded not guilty to
six charges.  ‘Character, Capacity’  “Your statement convinces me you have the character and
capacity to search your own soul,” Stearns said in accepting
the plea agreement. “I’m going to leave it to you to finish
that journey. There is nothing I can do for you.”  Ferdaus’s attorney Miriam Conrad told the judge the
punishment was “sufficient but not greater than necessary to
promote the purposes of sentencing.”  According to court papers, Ferdaus told the agents he
wanted “to totally destroy and take out the enemy and kill as
many kafir as possible.” “Kafir” is an Arabic term for
nonbelievers.  “He wanted to be part of al-Qaeda,” First Assistant U.S.
Attorney Jack Pirozzolo told reporters after the hearing. “He
wanted to kill Americans. He was given 25 chances to back out of
this.”  Model Planes  Ferdaus performed surveillance in  Washington , ordered
remote-controlled model planes from a Florida distributor and
rented a storage unit in Framingham, Massachusetts, according to
the indictment. After the agents delivered three grenades, six
assault rifles and what Ferdaus believed were 25 pounds of
plastic explosives, he locked the materials in the storage
facility and was arrested, prosecutors said.  He used the alias Dave Winfield, the name of a former New
York Yankees baseball player, when he bought the remote-
controlled aircraft, according to the indictment.  Ferdaus was a resident of Ashland, Massachusetts, according
to court papers. In a letter his parents wrote to the judge, his
father, Showket, said he is a Muslim-American who emigrated from
 Bangladesh  in 1975. The defendant’s mother, Anamaria, is
Catholic, was raised in  Angola  and came to the U.S. in 1974.
Their son’s passion was playing the drums, they said. During
college, he began to show signs of mental illness and has been
taking medication, according to the letter.  The case is U.S. v. Ferdaus, 11-10331, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@me.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  