-- Carlyle Said to Keep Circling Chemring After Repeat Profit Miss
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-11-01T16:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/carlyle-said-to-keep-circling-chemring-after-repeat-profit-miss.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the U.S. private
equity firm, is still in pursuit of  Chemring Group Plc (CHG)  even
after the U.K. maker of aircraft protection equipment repeatedly
cut earnings targets, two people familiar with the talks said.  Negotiations that were first made public on August 17
continue ahead of a November 9 deadline set by the U.K. Takeover
Panel, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
negotiations are private. The date to submit a more
comprehensive takeover document has already been extended twice.  The private-equity firm is still interested even after the
surprise departure of the Chemring chief executive officer last
month and a lowered profit target, one person said. Carlyle has
yet to decide if it will bid or work with Chemring to seek
another extension, said the people. Chemring’s new CEO, Mark Papworth, takes office on Nov. 5 after the ouster of  David
Price .  Oliver Sleath, a London-based analyst at Credit Suisse,
said the renewed revision “reduces any remaining likelihood of
a successful bid” by Carlyle.  Chemring fell as much as 61.1 pence, or 19 percent, to
252.6 pence in London today, the most in more than a decade. The
company, based in Fareham,  England , cut its target for earnings
per share for the 12 months through October by 13 pence, the
second reduction since Carlyle said it’s exploring a takeover.
The stock traded at at 259.8 pence at 3:53 p.m. in London,
valuing Chemring at 462 million pounds ($745.6 million).  Chemring blamed today’s revision in part on development
snags with a countermeasure systems, which needs re-testing
before it’s accepted by the customer. The company also said
several Middle East contract bookings were delayed. Spokesmen at
Chemring and Carlyle declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  