-- Carrefour CEO Plassat Turns Dealmaker to Revive Retailer
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-11-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/carrefour-ceo-plassat-turns-dealmaker-to-revive-ailing-retailer.html
Georges Plassat’s appointment as
 Carrefour SA (CA)  Chief Executive Officer was welcomed by analysts
and investors because of his retailing experience. Six months
into the job, he’s proving a savvy dealmaker as well.  Plassat this week sold Carrefour’s Malaysian unit to Aeon
Co. for 250 million euros ($324 million). That followed his
announcements to exit  Singapore  by the end of the year and pay
220 million euros to exit  Greece . The CEO’s biggest win was his
agreement last month to sell Carrefour’s Colombian stores to
 Cencosud SA (CENCOSUD)  for 2 billion euros.  “Strategically, it’s really quite clever,” Michael Dennis, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald in London, said of the
Colombian deal. As well as selling the business for 1.3 times
sales, more than three times the European food retail sector’s
trading average, “he’s saving the capex to support the asset”
and helping show that Carrefour’s core business is undervalued.  The CEO, who took the helm of the Boulogne-Billancourt,
France-based company on May 23, is reshaping the retailer at a
faster clip than his predecessor Lars Olofsson did during his
three years in charge. He may just be getting started with at
least three other disposals mooted.  “Plassat has recognized that radical change is needed at
Carrefour,” said Natalie Berg, an analyst at researcher Planet
Retail in  London . By accelerating international disposals,
“he’s proven he’s not afraid to take action.”  Lost France Share  Plassat’s dealmaking has already started to reverse a five-
year slump in Carrefour’s shares as expectations that he will
deleverage the retailer’s balance sheet increase. After falling
17 percent in the first half of 2012, Carrefour’s stock has
risen 30 percent since the end of June, bringing the company’s
market value to about 12.8 billion euros.  Carrefour is “a buy for Plassat’s ability to create
shareholder value through portfolio rationalization and the
opportunity to improve the core French business,” said Caroline Gulliver, an analyst at Espirito Santo in London.  Carrefour has been losing market share in  France , where it
gets about half of sales, as shoppers shun the retailer’s out-
of-town superstores for rival outlets, often closer to home or
online, that are perceived to offer better value for money.  To combat this and boost margins in Europe that are the
lowest in at least a decade, Carrefour’s fourth CEO in eight
years has prioritized generating cash and cutting debt. His plan
includes exiting overseas markets the retailer doesn’t dominate.  Dia Spinoff  While Olofsson sold Carrefour’s Thai business and spun off
all of discounter  Distribuidora Internacional de Alimentacion SA 
on the Madrid stock exchange, he shelved a plan to list 25
percent of the French retailer’s property assets in  Europe . The
former CEO also presided over an aborted proposal to merge
Carrefour’s Brazilian unit with  Cia. Brasilieira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar  and canceled the sale of the French
company’s Malaysian and Singaporean operations.  Plassat “is more his own man,” said Cantor Fitzgerald’s
Dennis. “What he’s achieved in such a short period of time is
not to get involved with the puppet strings of the major
shareholders.”  Plassat, who transformed an unprofitable shoemaker into an
apparel and accessories company with more than 3 billion euros
in revenue while at Vivarte SA, has also shown he is prepared to
make bolt-on acquisitions. Carrefour agreed this week to add 13
frozen-food outlets in  Belgium , after buying 129 grocery stores
in  Argentina  in June, moves that will strengthen the retailer,
according to Espirito Santo’s Gulliver.  Malaysian Deal  More deals are likely. CT Corp. is seeking $750 million of
financing to buy the 60 percent of Carrefour’s Indonesian
business that it doesn’t already own, people familiar with the
matter said Oct. 29.  Carrefour has also put its Polish and Turkish units under
review and is considering a combination of the latter with
competitor  Migros Ticaret AS (MGROS) , people with knowledge of the
situation said in September. And Carrefour is preparing a $4.9-
billion initial public offering of its Atacadao cash-and-carry
unit in  Brazil , Veja magazine reported Oct. 27.  Further asset disposals “will confirm that management is
implementing its restructuring plan at a quick pace, while
providing Carrefour with welcome room for maneuver to roll out
its restructuring measures in France,” said Claire Poncet Dumont, an analyst at Credit Agricole CIB in Paris. A Carrefour
official declined to comment on other possible transactions.  Low Food Prices  To be sure, even after the disposing of non-core assets,
Plassat “will have to deliver on the operating side and this is
likely to be the hardest part of the job in our view, given the
unfavorable macroeconomic context,” said Dumont.  To fix France, where sales have barely grown in the past
decade, Plassat has pledged to give more control to store
managers and maintain low prices on food. His three-year plan
also includes putting more non-branded goods on shelves and
adding so-called drives, or pick-up points for online orders, at
some outlets.  “So far, he has done the right things,” said Robert Jakobsen, an analyst at Jyske Bank in Silkeborg,  Denmark  with a
strong buy recommendation on the shares. “But it’s of course,
early times. A lot of things are still missing, a lot of details
about how he wants to improve Carrefour, especially about
numbers and how quickly he can improve margins.”  Still, the key issue for Plassat was to improve Carrefour’s
financial flexibility, according to Arnaud Joly, an analyst at
CA Cheuvreux, who estimates the retailer will generate less than
200 million euros of cash annually in the next two years.  “The group now has more flexibility to finance its
turnaround measures,” said Joly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  