-- Chemring Drops as Contract Delays Lead to Lower Forecast
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-11-01T08:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/chemring-drops-as-contract-delays-lead-to-lower-forecast.html
Chemring Group Plc (CHG) , the target of a
takeover approach by Carlyle Group LLP, fell the most in more
than 15 years after delays in Middle Eastern sales and a new
countermeasures product led to a profit-forecast cut.  Chemring is reducing its earnings-per-share prediction for
the 12 months through October by 13 pence, the Fareham, England-
based maker of aircraft protection and other military equipment
said in a statement today, without specifying a target figure.
Five analysts with updated estimates had been expecting earnings
of 43 pence a share.  The forecast cut is Chemring’s second since the
manufacturer said on Aug. 17 that it was in takeover talks with
U.S. private-equity firm Carlyle. The group has also ousted
Chief Executive Officer  David Price , who will be replaced by
Mark Papworth on November 5.  Chemring fell as much as 19 percent to 252.6 pence, the
biggest intraday drop on a closing basis since April 1997. The
stock was trading down 17 percent at 8:41 a.m. in London,
valuing the company at 505 million pounds ($815 million).  “The profit warning reduces any remaining likelihood of a
successful bid” by Carlyle, said Oliver Sleath, a London-based
analyst at Credit Suisse. The forecast cut “provides fresh
evidence that Chemring is suffering from deep-rooted, structural
problems, combined with substantial end-market headwinds, that
will require substantial time, and management reorganization, to
address.”  Chemring said the forecast revision was in part due to
development snags with a countermeasure systems, which needs re-
testing before it’s accepted by the customer. It didn’t identify
the product.  A contract for aircraft countermeasures with an
unidentified Middle East buyer had slipped into next year, while
delays in receiving an export license for a mortar system would
also affect earnings, the manufacturer also said. Chemring said
it doesn’t expect the licensing issue to be resolved in the near
term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  