-- Chesapeake Delays Asset Sales After Reporting Loss
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-11-02T20:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/chesapeake-posts-biggest-loss-in-3-years-on-gas-prices.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the U.S.
energy producer that wrote down $2 billion in natural gas
reserves yesterday, said some asset sales may be delayed as it
seeks new buyers. The shares fell the most in four months.  Sales of gas fields and other assets that had been
scheduled to occur this year won’t happen until 2013, Chief
Financial Officer Nick Dell’Osso said on an earnings conference
call today. Among the delayed items is Chesapeake’s 2 million
acres in the Mississippi Lime, an Oklahoma and Kansas shale
formation that holds crude and gas.  Chesapeake is no longer courting Asian investors for a
joint venture in the Mississippi Lime formation, partly because
of concerns about rising political opposition to foreign
investment in domestic energy resources, Chief Executive Officer
Aubrey McClendon said on the call. McClendon said he’s now in
discussions with oil industry players about buying some or all
of the company’s drilling rights.  “We have continued reservations about the company’s
liquidity,” James Sullivan, an analyst at Alembic Global
Advisors in New York, said in a note to clients today. Asset
sales are proceeding slowly and those that have been completed
“fail to impress.”  Chesapeake, based in Oklahoma City, is seeking to sell as
much as $19 billion in assets by the end of 2013 to plug a
funding shortfall aggravated by the plunge in U.S. gas prices. A
29 percent slide in fuel prices during the third quarter
compared with a year earlier wiped out the equivalent of 4.9
trillion cubic feet of Chesapeake’s  reserves , according to a
company statement yesterday. That’s enough to supply every
household in the U.S. for more than a year.  Asset Writedowns  Energy explorers from  Australia ’s  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
 Canada ’s  Encana Corp. (ECA)  began writing down the value of North
American gas properties earlier this year as the price slump
worsened and many fields became unprofitable to drill.  Concern about Asian buyers comes after the Canadian
government last month rejected a bid by Malaysian oil company
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. to buy  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)   Chesapeake reported a net loss of $2.01 billion, or $3.19 a
share, compared with profit of $922 million, or $1.23, a year
earlier, according to the statement yesterday. The shares fell
7.9 percent to $18.49 at the close in New York, the biggest
decline since June 25 and the worst performance among the 43
companies on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Energy Index. (S5ENRS)   Cash Flow  “Chesapeake looks like it’s probably done with write-offs
for now,” Philip Weiss, an analyst at Argus Research in New
York, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Eventually, they’ll
be able to put those resources back on the books, when prices
recover and they become economical” to drill.  The company said last month it will have $2.3 billion in
surplus cash flow when 2012 ends, an about-face from its May 1
warning to investors that it was in danger of running out of
cash as early as 2013.  Gas output climbed 25 percent to the equivalent of 3.81
billion cubic feet a day during the quarter, even as McClendon
shifted the company’s drilling focus to production of oil and
byproducts such as butane that command higher prices. The
company also raised the 2012 drilling budget yesterday to $8.75
billion, an increase of as much as 9.4 percent from the $8
billion to $8.5 billion estimate announced last month.  Net Loss  The net loss was the company’s biggest since the first
three months of 2009, when Chesapeake wrote down the value of
some reserves in response to the worldwide financial crisis and
reduced energy demand.  Gas futures traded in New York tumbled to an average of
$2.893 per million British thermal units for the July-to-
September period as increasing demand for the fuel failed to
erode a growing surplus from U.S. shale wells.  U.S. production of so-called dry gas, or gas without liquid
byproducts, rose 4.1 percent in July to 2.02 trillion cubic
feet, the most ever for that month of the year, Energy
Department figures showed.  Also yesterday, Chesapeake announced plans to borrow $2
billion under a five-year term loan.  The debt will pay interest around 4.5 percentage points
more than the London interbank offered rate, according to a
person with knowledge of the deal. Libor, a rate banks say they
can borrow in dollars from each other, will have a 1.25 percent
floor, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the information is private.  Loan Proceeds  The company is proposing to sell the loan at 99 cents on
the dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds for the company
and boosting the yield to investors.  Proceeds will be used to refinance a credit pact Chesapeake
got in May that pays a higher interest rate, the company said in
a regulatory filing. Bank of America Corp.,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  arranged the loan.  Excluding one-time items such as the writedown, Chesapeake
earned 10 cents a share during the third quarter, a penny more
than the average of 34 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chesapeake lost 17 percent of its market value this year as
the impact of falling gas prices was compounded by disclosures
that McClendon borrowed more than $800 million last year to
finance his personal stakes in thousands of company-owned oil
and gas wells.  Chairman Role  McClendon was removed from the chairman’s role in June and
more than half the board was replaced at the insistence of
Chesapeake’s largest investors, Southeastern Asset Management
Inc. and  Carl Icahn .  The board has been conducting an internal investigation for
more than six months of McClendon’s borrowings from some of the
company’s biggest financiers. Chesapeake hasn’t said when the
board will finish the inquiry. Probes also are under way at the
Internal Revenue Service and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  