-- China Southern Misses Target Date for A380 Paris Flights
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-11-01T16:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/china-southern-misses-target-date-for-a380-paris-flights.html
China Southern Airlines Co. (1055)  missed a
target date for introducing Airbus SAS A380s on international
flights from Beijing, prolonging a more than yearlong struggle
to gain access to slots in the nation’s capital.  The carrier expected to start flying A380s to Paris from
Beijing last month, it said in August. That was pending final
agreement about plans to cooperate on the route with  Air China
Ltd. (753) , the biggest airline in the Chinese capital.  China 
Southern’s media department and Air China’s investor-relations
office both failed to reply to phone calls and e-mails from
 Bloomberg News  seeking comment on the delay.  China Southern’s struggle to enter Beijing reflects how
government policies are limiting competition between the
nation’s big three state-controlled carriers on overseas routes,
said Will Horton, an analyst with CAPA Centre for Aviation. The
delay has left China Southern mainly flying its four 506-seat
A380s on domestic routes from its home in  Guangzhou , a smaller
city with less traffic than Beijing.  “In almost no other market could this have occurred,”
Horton said. “It is head-scratching and alludes to how Chinese
aviation still needs major development to catch up with the rest
of the world.”  Three Hubs  Air China has a lock on Beijing routes because of the
aviation landscape established by the Civil Aviation
Administration of China, the industry regulator, according to Li
Yanhua, a professor at Tianjin-based Civil Aviation University
of China.  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (670)  similarly controls
Shanghai, China’s financial capital, while China Southern has
Guangzhou.  “The regulator doesn’t favor direct or major competition
among domestic players on key routes,” she said. “If China
Southern gets the right to fly Beijing-Paris directly, it will
be a blow to Air China.”  Calls to the media department of Civil Aviation
Administration of China went unanswered. Air China is the
nation’s biggest international carrier. China Southern is the
biggest on domestic routes and the largest in  Asia  by passenger
numbers.  The lack of domestic competition for Air China means that
 Air France-KLM  is the only other carrier operating direct
Beijing-Paris flights. The two airlines offered about 14,203
seats on the route in the week ended Sept. 30, making it the
fourth biggest by capacity between China and Europe, according
to CAPA.  The parent of  Hainan Airlines Co. (900945) , China’s fourth biggest
carrier, has found a way round China’s unwritten ‘one airline,
one route,’ which has also limited its expansion in the nation’s
biggest cities. HNA Group Co. last month bought a 48 percent
stake in French airline Aigle Azur Transports Aeriens SAS. This
carrier will eventually begin Beijing-Paris flights, using a
French rather than Chinese license.  A380 Flights  Since China Southern received its first A380 in October
2011 it has mainly used the planes on the about 1,900-kilometer
(1,180 miles) flights between Beijing and Guangzhou that take
about three hours. The aircraft are designed to fly as far as
15,400 kilometers. The carrier did begin A380 flights to Los
Angeles from Guangzhou last month, its first overseas superjumbo
route.  The  airline  probably lost as much as 100 million  yuan  ($16
million) on its A380 operations in the first half, according to
Citigroup Inc. It’s due to receive its fifth and final
superjumbo early next year. The carrier’s net income fell 29
percent in the third quarter on currency fluctuations, after
slumping 85 percent in the first half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  