-- China Poised for Rebound as Luggage Maker Puts Lid on 2012
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-02T08:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/china-poised-for-growth-rebound-as-luggage-maker-puts-lid-on-12.html
Months before  China  closes the lid on
the Year of the Dragon, Guangzhou Aoking Leather Co. is ramping
up luggage production, adding to signs that the  slowdown  in the
world’s second-largest economy is poised to ease.  “People’s sentiment and confidence in the economy and in
their income prospects are improving,” says Song Chunhong, a
deputy marketing manager at the company in coastal Guangdong.
Sheng Laiyun at the National Bureau of Statistics sees broader
signs of recovery in the more-developed seaboard provinces that
are usually first to register shifts in the economy’s prospects.
“The duck knows first when the river becomes warm in spring,”
he said last month, quoting an 11th-century Chinese poem.  While China’s years of 10 percent growth may be behind, a
stabilization around 8 percent would help counter what the
 International Monetary Fund  last month called an “alarmingly
high” risk of a steeper drop in global expansion. Overseas
firms from computer-maker  Dell Inc. (DELL)  to Hong Kong jewelry makers
see sales in China improving in coming months, and domestic
manufacturers are more confident, a release  showed  yesterday.  “We have seen an increasing amount of evidence for green
shoots” in China, said Lu Ting, head of Greater China economics
at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong who this week raised his
fourth-quarter forecast for economic growth to 7.8 percent from
7.5 percent. The nation’s gross domestic product will rise 8.1
percent in 2013, up from 7.7 percent in 2012, he said.  Bull Market  A gauge of Chinese companies listed in  Hong Kong , the Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index, rose 1.2 percent today, entering a
 bull market  after a 20 percent gain from this year’s low.  Manufacturing  expanded  in October for the first time in
three months, according to a purchasing managers’ index released
yesterday by the government, while a similar gauge from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics posted the biggest gain since
October 2010. Industrial companies’ profits recorded the first
year-on-year gain in September since March, data showed Oct. 27.  Accelerations in consumption and  investment  and are having
an impact just as leaders prepare for a once-a-decade power
handover starting with a Communist Party congress next week. The
stabilization would be good news for the next generation of
leaders headed by  Xi Jinping , who is forecast to succeed  Hu Jintao  as Communist Party general secretary this month.  “China’s looking rather impressive,” said  Jim O’Neill ,
chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management in  London , who coined
the BRICs acronym to describe the large  emerging markets  of
Brazil,  Russia , India and China. Data from September and October
offer “more confidence that the fourth quarter is likely to be
stronger” than the third period, he said.  Playground Equipment  Recovery is also evident at Wenzhou Hualong Amusement Toys
Co., a maker of outdoor child-play equipment for export and
domestic sale, where demand is “much better” than six months
ago, according to Chen Jianyun, a manager at the company. Larger
companies seeing improvement include  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the
biggest China-listed developer by market value, which saw sales
increase, and  China Shipping Container Lines Co. (2866) , which returned
to profit in the third quarter.  A rebound would validate the government’s strategy of
refraining from the type of aggressive stimulus that unleashed
record lending during the global credit crunch. China has
refrained from lowering interest  rates  since a total of two cuts
in June and July, and eschewed the scale of the 4 trillion  yuan 
($586 billion) fiscal stimulus announced in 2008.  Some markets are showing renewed optimism. The yuan has
appreciated 0.7 percent against the dollar in the past month,
after declining 0.9 percent in January-through-June. The
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks is up 1.5 percent
in the past month, paring its drop for the year to 3.8 percent.
Yields on 10-year government  bonds  have risen to 3.58 percent
from this year’s low around 3.25 percent on July 12.  GDP Forecasts  The economy may expand 7.7 percent in the October-to-
December period from a year before, compared with 7.4 percent
last quarter, according to 30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News Oct. 18-22.  “There is a significant uptick as we have gone through the
quarter,” Amit Midha, president of the Asia division of Dell,
the fourth-largest personal-computer maker, said in an Oct. 26
interview.  Growth in coastal export hubs is picking up. Eastern
Zhejiang province saw GDP climb 7.7 percent in the year through
September from the same period a year before, compared with a
7.4 percent pace in the first half. Guangdong accelerated to 7.9
percent growth from 7.4 percent over the same period, and
Jiangsu’s to 10.1 percent from 9.9 percent, according to
provincial statistics offices.  East Rising  The advance in eastern China may reflect that fact that the
region’s slowdown “was more significant from the beginning,”
said  Zhu Haibin , chief China economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in Hong Kong. “But it is worth noting that inland China growth
is still much higher than eastern China. This trend will
continue in future years and is an important driver of long-term
growth in China.”  Even with a rebound, economists are less sanguine on
China’s growth than they were six months ago. Median forecasts
in the October survey were for 7.7 percent expansion this year
and 8 percent in 2013, compared with April projections of 8.4
percent for 2012 and 8.5 percent next year.  China’s recovery will face headwinds from a raft of
challenges facing policy makers. An overhang of debt from loans
in 2009-2010 may constrain policy easing while a shrinking pool
of workers age 15 to 24, a mainstay for manufacturers, will
pressure industrial costs. The ranks of younger workers will
slide by 62 million people by 2025 to 164 million, according to
the  United Nations .  Speed Limit  The shrinking labor force means China’s trend growth rate
will drop to 6.1 percent for 2016-2020 from 7.2 percent in
2011-2015 and 11.2 percent for 2006-2010, Cai Fang, head of the
Institute for Population and Labor Economics at the  Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences  and a senior adviser on demographics
to the nation’s leadership, said in August.  The acceleration also may be capped by policy makers’ goal
of rebalancing the economy away from investment-led growth
toward greater consumption.  “Nobody in Beijing wants a recovery from 7.5 percent to 10
percent,” said Stephen Jen, managing partner at hedge fund SLJ
Macro Partners LLP in London and former head of currency
research at Morgan Stanley. “Foreign commentators are excited
about a U-shaped recovery when China itself is focused on a
secular deceleration that is benign.”  Overcapacity, weak private investment and rising costs as
the labor supply shrinks also will restrain China’s
acceleration, said Tao Dong, head of Asia economics excluding
Japan at Credit Suisse Group AG in Hong Kong.  Orders Expand  Even so, signs of a comeback are spreading. In yesterday’s
official PMI survey, a gauge of output rose to the highest level
since May, while an index of new  orders  indicated expansion for
the first time in six months. The HSBC PMI index was at an
eight-month high and a gauge of new orders reached the second-
highest level in 17 months.  The reports follow September data showing industrial-
 production  growth accelerated for the first time in four months,
retail sales rose the most since March and fixed-asset
investment gains quickened.  “ China’s economy  is at a  turning point ,” said  Ken Peng ,
an economist with BNP Paribas SA in Beijing. “Growth may exceed
8 percent in 2013 even without major stimulus.”  Song, of the Guangzhou luggage maker, said a new focus on
domestic sales is helping the company after sluggish exports
battered business earlier this year. The vendor is expanding
outlets and increasing the number of agents, he said.  “We had a rough start and the situation in the first half
was lackluster,” Song said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  