-- China Bad Loans to Increase, China Orient Asset Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-11-01T04:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/china-bad-loans-to-increase-china-orient-asset-says.html
Chinese commercial banks may see an
increase in  non-performing loans  from this quarter through the
first half of next year,  China  Orient Asset Management Corp.
said, citing a survey conducted.  Bad debt may rise as much as 10 percent this year, taking
the ratio of non-performing loans to 1 percent to 2 percent of
the total by the end of 2012, China Orient said yesterday,
citing a survey of commercial banks, asset management firms,
investors and intermediaries done in June. The pace at which bad
loans increase may accelerate if concerns about a rebound in
inflation leads China to tighten monetary policy, said the
company, which buys, manages and disposes of bad debt.  Shares of China’s biggest state-owned banks have trailed
benchmarks in Hong Kong and  Shanghai  on concern they’ll be
saddled with unpaid loans from a record $2.8 trillion lending
boom orchestrated by the government to combat the global
financial crisis. Bad loans at the four  biggest banks  increased
by 2.1 billion  yuan  ($337 million) in the third quarter from the
previous three months.  Real estate is the major source of bad loans at Chinese
lenders this year, China Orient said. A 30 percent to 40 percent
drop in housing prices could result in losses that Chinese banks
wouldn’t be able to absorb, it said, without giving details.  Industrial and Commercial  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  has declined
more than 8 percent  in Shanghai  trading this year, compared with
a 4 percent drop in the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index.
Shares of China’s biggest lender have risen  in Hong Kong  by
about 12 percent as the  Hang Seng Index  gained 18 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  