-- China Probes EU Solar-Silicon Imports for Dumping, Subsidies
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-01T05:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/china-probes-eu-solar-polysilicon-imports-for-dumping-subsidies.html
China , which is embroiled with the
U.S. in a dispute related to solar-energy taxes, has started
anti-dumping and anti-subsidy probes on solar-grade polysilicon
imported from the European Union.  The investigation, scheduled to last a year from today with
the possibility of an extension to May 1, 2014, will cover the
12 months from July 1, 2011, according to two statements posted
to the website of China’s  Ministry of Commerce .  The actions come after the EU said in September that it
opened an investigation into whether Chinese manufactures sold
solar panels and cells and wafers used in them at a loss. The
global average spot price of polysilicon in the week beginning
Oct. 22 dropped to a record of $18.3 a kilogram, below the cost
of production for the majority of China’s polysilicon
manufacturers, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “The announcement is more a response to the EU probe and
the result will be highly dependent,” Wang Xiaoting, a Beijing-
based analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said by phone.
“If tariffs are imposed on the U.S. and EU imports, the entire
downstream of Chinese photovoltaic manufacturing will face a
more difficult situation.”  Jiangsu Zhongneng Polysilicon Technology Development Co., a
unit of  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , Daqo New Energy Corp.,
LDK Solar Co. and China Silicon Corp. are among the companies
that filed the complaint. Combined, the companies account for
more than 50 percent of the raw material for solar cells in
China during the past four years.  Investigations Combined  The investigation will be combined with another initiated
by China in July on whether exporters from the U.S. and  South
Korea  sold solar-grade polysilicon below cost, the ministry
said.  China’s Ministry of Commerce is scheduled as early as this
month to make preliminary findings on the earlier complaint that
U.S. manufacturers are dumping polysilicon, two of the four
companies that brought the case said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  