-- China Central Banker Zhou’s Book May Fuel Retirement Speculation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-01T01:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/china-central-banker-zhou-s-book-may-fuel-retirement-speculation.html
The publication of a book by  Zhou Xiaochuan  may fuel speculation that  China ’s longest-serving
central bank governor since the 1960s is close to retiring.  “The Global Financial Crisis” includes 45 speeches,
articles and interviews by Zhou, 64, from 2007 to 2012 on his
views of the international turmoil, China Business News, a
Shanghai-based newspaper, reported on Oct. 29. The most recent
is from June and 24 items are being published for the first
time, the newspaper said, citing a publisher’s description.  “The expectation is that he will either retire or be moved
elsewhere because he’s been in his job a long time,” said Willy Wo-Lap Lam, adjunct professor of history at the  Chinese
University of Hong Kong . “The publication of the book looks
like a swan song.”  Zhou presided over China’s first change in currency policy
in a decade, when officials ended the  yuan ’s peg to the dollar
in 2005, and is helping to oversee a loosening of controls on
 interest rates . His status may become clearer at a Communist
Party congress starting next week, where the party will name its
central committee in a once-a-decade leadership transition. If
he’s no longer a member, that could signal a change.  Zhou is approaching a decade in the job after taking the
role in December 2002. His age indicates that he’s likely to
step down soon, said Yao Wei, China economist at Societe
Generale SA in  Hong Kong .  The book “is his signal to everybody that his tenure is
coming to an end,” said Bo Zhiyue, senior research fellow at
the  National University  of  Singapore ’s East Asia Institute.  Previous Works  The book wasn’t available from the central bank, which said
it would be on sale soon. The People’s Bank of China didn’t
immediately respond to faxed questions seeking comment on when
Zhou may leave his role.  Previous collections of Zhou’s articles include a July 2008
book containing remarks from 1991 to 2004 on economic reforms,
and a December 2008 book, according to listings on
e-commerce sites 360buy.com and dangdang.com.  Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong, said the timing of the new work doesn’t
necessarily mean Zhou will retire and a decision will come after
the congress.  Given that Zhou was a “scholar in the beginning” and not
a political leader and has had many articles published before,
the book is “just a coincidence, not any signal,” said Shen,
who formerly worked at the  European Central Bank .  Reserve Currencies  During the global financial crisis, Zhou argued for
reducing the world’s dependence on the dollar, urging the
 International Monetary Fund  to expand the use of so-called
Special Drawing Rights and move toward a “super-sovereign
reserve currency.”  The PBOC, unlike central banks in the U.S., U.K. and
 Europe , doesn’t have political independence and its actions are
subject to the approval of, or decided by, China’s cabinet.  This year the central bank has twice lowered interest rates
and twice cut lenders’ reserve requirements in response to the
deepest economic-growth slowdown since 2009. The central bank
also widened the yuan’s trading band against the dollar to 1
percent from a daily range of 0.5 percent in place since 2007.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  