-- China Suspends Coal Mines for Congress, Boosting Prices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-02T08:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/china-suspends-coal-mines-for-congress-boosting-prices.html
China , the world’s biggest producer
and user of coal, is suspending operations at smaller mines in a
bid to improve safety before the nation’s once-in-a-decade
leadership transition this month.  Ahead of the  18th Party Congress , which begins Nov. 8 in
Beijing and runs for at least a week, the State Administration
of Work Safety has sent inspectors to mines to “spot hazards”
and accelerate shutdowns over the next month, it said in an Oct.
24  statement  on its website. The congress is where China’s next
generation of leaders will be formally anointed.  Datuhe (Shanxi) Coking & Chemical Co. and Yongning Coal
Co., a unit of Yongning Coal & Coking Group, have both had
operations halted, according to company officials who declined
to be identified because they aren’t authorized to speak
publicly.  The suspensions could affect mines in provinces such as
Inner Mongolia, Shanxi and Shaanxi, which combined account for
60 percent of the nation’s output. China has been working to
improve safety in an industry in which accidents killed  1,973
people  last year and 2,433 in 2010, according to the State
Administration of Work Safety. That compares with 48 deaths in
2010 in the U.S., the world’s second-biggest coal producer.  “Improving mining safety is a direction of China’s coal
policy. The recent fatal accidents highlight the urgency”, said
 Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-based analyst with UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.
“Government officials are severely punished for  coal mine 
accidents now. So, maintaining social and political stability is
important in this leadership transition.”  Output Impact  China’s regions, departments and companies should “firmly
prevent big coal mine accidents to create a safe, stable working
environment for the opening of the Party Congress,” the work
safety administration said, following a video conference with
provincial officials on Sept 4.  A gas explosion in a coal mine in Inner Mongolia yesterday
trapped six people, the official Xinhua News Agency reported,
citing local authorities.  The temporary closures could affect all non-state owned
mines that account for 47 percent of coal output in  Inner
Mongolia  and 42 percent in Shaanxi, said Chen Yanyan, analyst
with independent research company Glinfo.com in  Shanghai . In
Shanxi, it could affect about 30 percent of local output, said
Jing Wen, analyst with independent research firm China Coal
Resource in Taiyuan city, Shanxi province.  “All non-state-owned mines may be suspended even for a
very short period. There is no other way to guarantee zero
accident” during the congress, Chen said.  Mines Shuttered  China’s raw coal production climbed 4.9 percent to 2.57
billion tons in the first eight months of the year, according
 China Coal Resource  data. Of that, Inner Mongolia had a 26
percent share, Shanxi 24 percent and Shaanxi 10 percent, the
data showed.  The Datuhe sales manager said one of the company’s three
coal mines in Shanxi’s Luliang city was ordered by local
government to suspend operations in early September because of
the congress. Its other two mines are yet to start operating as
they’re being upgraded, he said.  The official at Yongning Coal Co. said its sole mine in
Shanxi’s Lishi city has been suspended for the congress. Both
Datuhe and Yongning are privately owned.  Coking coal, used by the  steel industry , traded at 1,000
 yuan  a metric ton at the factory gate in Shanxi’s Luliang as of
Oct. 29, up from a yearly low of 900 yuan on Oct. 8, according
Glinfo.com data. China’s weekly price for thermal coal used in
power generation was quoted at 635 yuan to 645 yuan a ton as of
Oct. 29, up from a range of 625 yuan to 635 yuan a ton on Sept.
9, according to the China Coal Transport and Distribution
Association, which advises the government.  “The latest enforcement of mine closure is much stricter
than before,” said Mu Wenxin, senior analyst with Custeel.com,
another independent research firm. “The halt is set to push
coal prices higher along with seasonal demand from
steelmakers.”  Improve Safety  A gas explosion on Aug. 29 at Xiaojiawan coal mine in
China’s southwestern province of Sichuan killed 45 people and
injured 54, with one missing, the work safety administration
said  Sept. 3 . Twenty people were killed in a coal mine in Baiyin
city,  Gansu province , on Sept. 25 after a steel cable that was
pulling a locomotive carrying 34 miners in two carriages
snapped.  On Sept. 22, a fire broke out at an underground coal mine
in Heilongjiang province, leaving 12 dead. The accident prompted
the local government of Shuangyashan city to shut all of its
“small” mines for checks, according to the provincial
government’s website. These mines are unlikely to restart until
December, Glinfo’s Chen said. Heilongjiang makes up 2.4 percent
of the nation’s coal output.  Shaanxi province will shut 31 mines in Shenmu and Fugu
counties very shortly by revoking their licenses and cutting
their power supply, the province’s Bureau of Coal Work Safety
said Oct. 31 on its website. It is part of a plan to close 100
small local mines and cut capacity at more than 200 others over
three years, “Work safety is especially urgent and important as
the party congress will start soon,” the bureau said.  Nationwide, the country plans to shut down about 20,000
unlicensed mines by 2015, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported Sept. 19, citing Yang Dongliang, director of the work
safety administration.  Bigger Companies  The suspension of small mines is set to benefit bigger
companies.  Shanxi Coking Coal Group Ltd. , China’s biggest coking
coal producer, boosted sales by 31 percent to a record 9.16
million tons in September from a year ago, the company said on
its website.  “Reduced output by rivals helped the company boost
sales,” said Jing at China Coal Resource. Four calls to Shanxi
Coking Coal’s general office seeking comment went unanswered.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (1171) , China’s fourth biggest coal
producer, increased by 4.1 percent, its biggest closing gain
since Sept. 14, to HK$12.28 in  Hong Kong , beating a 1.3 percent
gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  China Shenhua Energy Co. (1088) , a unit of the nation’s biggest
coal producer, advanced 1.1 percent to HK$33.70;  China Coal
Energy Co. (1898) , the second largest, climbed 2.2 percent to HK$8.02.  For coking coal, the larger state-owned producers like
Shanxi Coking Coal supply directly to steelmakers including
Baosteel Group Corp. and Anshan Iron & Steel Group. Smaller
producers sell to coking companies which turn the material into
coke for use in steel furnaces.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  