-- Cigna Profit Climbs on Medicare Boost From Healthspring
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-11-01T20:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/cigna-profit-climbs-on-medicare-boost-from-healthspring.html
Cigna Corp. (CI) , the third-biggest U.S.
health insurer by market value, raised its 2012 forecast and
said profit more than doubled after acquisitions boosted revenue
from government-backed Medicare plans. The earnings pushed the
shares to their best single-day gain in almost a year.  Cigna raised its full-year profit projection to $5.70 to
$5.90 a share, above the average analyst prediction of $5.55,
according to a statement today, and Chief Executive Officer
David Cordani said that sales and earnings will rise next year
as well. The carrier also announced a restructuring that
includes 1,300 job cuts, about 4 percent of the Bloomfield,
Connecticut-based company’s workforce.  Cigna bought insurer Healthspring Inc. for $3.8 billion a
year ago and in May purchased Great American Supplemental
Benefits Group, deals that expanded its business in Medicare
plans for the elderly.  Aetna Inc. (AET)  and  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  followed
with similar acquisitions this year, as insurers prepare for
slimmer profit margins in private-sector plans under President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul.  “It is a very strong quarter that has exceeded
expectations in all segments,”  Ana Gupte , an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, wrote today in an e-
mail. “Health-care earnings are particularly strong with growth
and solid metrics in the Medicare and commercial segments.”  Rising Value  Cigna gained 4.5 percent to $53.27 at the close in New
York, the biggest single-day increase since Nov. 30, 2011, and
the continuation of a two-day rally that has pushed the
company’s market value ahead of Hartford, Connecticut-based
Aetna. Aetna and Minnetonka, Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth Group
Inc. (UNH) , the biggest insurer, beat profit estimates last month,
citing increased Medicare revenue and medical costs that grew
less than expected.  The No. 2 plan, Indianapolis-based WellPoint, is scheduled
to report earnings on Nov. 7.  Cigna’s third-quarter  net income  jumped to $466 million, or
$1.61 a share, compared with $183 million, or 67 cents, a year
earlier, when the company took a charge for a discontinued
business unit. Earnings excluding one-time items of $62 million
were $1.69 a share, beating by 33 cents the average of 17
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales Increase  Sales rose to $7.36 billion from $5.61 billion a year
earlier, and Cigna’s medical customers grew by 1.25 million in
the first nine months of 2012. The insurer raised its full-year
forecast from an August  projection  for adjusted profit of $5.25
to $5.60 a share.  Cigna also announced a “realignment and efficiency” plan
that it said would save the company $60 million annually. The
changes include cutting jobs across the company, including 300
in a European health and accident insurance business that “has
not performed as well as we would have hoped,” said Matthew
Asensio, a spokesman, in a telephone interview.  Cordani told analysts on a conference call the savings will
be used to expand into new markets and upgrade technology, among
other steps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  