-- Clinton Urges Albania to Pursue Open Elections, Rule of Law
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-11-01T12:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/clinton-urges-albania-to-pursue-open-elections-rule-of-law.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  urged Albania to fight corruption, improve the rule of
law and pursue transparent elections and political cooperation
as it seeks accession to the European Union.  Clinton, speaking to the parliament in Tirana today, said
that 20 years ago Albania was an economically stunted communist
enclave dotted with concrete bunkers. Today it’s a member of
NATO, contributes troops to the organization’s efforts in
 Afghanistan , and is pursuing investment and trade.  “You have come a long way,” Clinton said. “Don’t stop
now. There is still a great deal more work left to do to
strengthen your young democracy, build your economy, and create
a future equal to the aspirations of your people.”  Clinton’s stop in Albania is her last on a swing through
the Balkans where she has been emphasizing the need for
continued reforms so the region can be better integrated into
international institutions like the EU.  Citing her own experience with former political rival
President  Barack Obama , Clinton urged Albania’s politicians “to
build a culture of cooperation that transcends political
differences, what Alexis de Tocqueville termed ‘the habits of
the heart’ that are the core of every successful democracy.”  Membership Benefits  Clinton told the legislators that EU membership would not
only make Albania stronger, it would also benefit  Europe  as a
whole, making “the continent more stable, more peaceful, and
more secure,” she said.  In order for accession to happen, the country will have to
undertake “vital” reforms in the next few “critical” months,
Clinton said.  Free and fair elections are needed to convince Europe that
Albania’s politics can function smoothly, Clinton said, and
urged stronger rule of law as essential to the health of the
democracy. Clinton also emphasized the need to tackle corruption
to build confidence of foreign investors and growing the
economy.  “This is a fight you must win, because all over the world,
corruption is a cancer that eats away at societies,” Clinton
said.  -- Editors: Alan Crosby, Alan Crawford  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Tirana at  ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  