-- Clinton Warned of Military Danger in China-Japan Dispute
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-11-02T15:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/clinton-warned-of-military-danger-in-china-japan-dispute.html
The festering dispute between  China 
and  Japan  over five uninhabited islands could spin out of
control unless the countries improve their communication with
each other, according to a confidential report submitted to
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  this week by a delegation of
former U.S. officials.  The bipartisan four-person delegation met last week with
Japan’s prime minister and China’s vice premier, who is expected
to take over as prime minister, and both countries’ foreign
ministers. The U.S. group warns Clinton in its written report
that, while neither side wants a confrontation, a mistake or
miscalculation could escalate into a military face-off.  Members of the delegation described their findings on the
condition of anonymity because their meetings and report are
confidential.  Clinton dispatched the mission in an effort to assess ways
to reduce mounting tensions in light of Japan’s nationwide
elections next year, an imminent leadership change in China and
rising nationalist rhetoric in both Asian countries over the
islands in the  East China Sea . The five islands are called
Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese.  Taiwan , which calls
them Diaoyutai, also claims the chain, which is surrounded by
undersea oil and natural gas fields.  ‘Consultative Role’  The members of the delegation, all former national security
officials, were Democrats Joseph Nye and  James Steinberg  and
Republicans Richard Armitage and Stephen Hadley. Clinton sent a
bipartisan delegation to signal to China and Japan that both
political parties support the U.S. position on the islands so
its report would carry weight with whomever wins the U.S.
presidential and congressional elections, according to members
of the group.  “While the State Department supported and facilitated
their travel, they acted in a consultative role for the United
States government,” said John Echard, a State Department
spokesman. “The individuals were not traveling to mediate
regional security issues, but rather listened to perspectives of
each side.”  The former U.S. officials met last week with Chinese Vice
Premier  Li Keqiang , Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and
other officials, and are scheduled to meet with Clinton on Nov.
8.  Poor Communication  They plan to report to Clinton that surprisingly poor
communications and serious misunderstandings between China and
Japan increase the risk that the territorial dispute could
escalate if their ships collide or there’s some other mishap,
delegation members said. Their report says China and Japan need
to improve communication at a variety of levels, from heads of
state down to the local coast guard commanders whose vessels are
patrolling in the vicinity of the islands.  Japan issued a protest this week when four Chinese patrol
boats entered the waters near the disputed islands after
officials of the two countries met last week in  Shanghai  in an
attempt to improve relations.  In their meetings in both nations, the U.S. delegation
members said, they encountered differing reactions from
officials and from analysts affiliated with the government
toward the American effort to help defuse the dispute.  There also were differing reactions, the members said, to
the delegation’s message that the U.S. recognizes Japan’s
administrative control of the islands, so it’s bound by Article
V of the Japan-U.S.  security treaty  to consult with Japan
“whenever the security of Japan or international peace and
security in the  Far East  is threatened.” Both Clinton and U.S.
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  also have made that point.  Going Sightseeing  While some Chinese officials grumbled, Chinese analysts had
harsher reactions, with some accusing Japan and the U.S. of
trying to overturn the outcome of World War II, according to two
of the U.S. members. That, said one delegate, was echoed by what
he called rude remarks by Chinese Lieutenant General Ren Hiaquan
in  Australia  this week.  Addressing a high-level military conference in Melbourne,
Ren, vice president of the People’s Liberation Army Academy of
Military Science,  called  Japan a former fascist nation that had
bombed the northern Australian city of Darwin and said
territorial disputes could trigger open war, according to The
Australian newspaper and two attendees at the meeting. Further,
the Chinese delegation went sightseeing the next day instead of
returning to the conference, said one of the attendees.  Japanese Politics  Two delegation members said the Chinese seemed to be
responding in part to a rightward turn in Japanese politics.
That includes the failed attempt to buy three of the disputed
islands this spring by  Tokyo  Governor Shintaro Ishihara, a
Japanese nationalist who has started a new political party and
once denied that invading Japanese troops had slaughtered
Chinese civilians in Nanjing in 1937. He also wanted to locate
Japanese on the island or stage protests there, which would’ve
been a provocation to China.  Noda’s national government attempted to defuse Ishihara’s
provocation by buying the islands in September so that it could
prevent nationalist settlers or protesters from going there.
China didn’t accept the Japanese government’s explanation and
responded by sending two surveillance ships into Japanese
territorial waters to underscore its claim to the islands.  Geng Yansheng, a Chinese defense ministry spokesman,
explained the move in a September 11 statement, saying: “The
determination and the will of the Chinese government and
military to safeguard their territorial integrity are firm. We
are closely monitoring the situation and reserve the right to
take necessary measures.”  ‘Not Constructive’  Noda is expected to discuss the issue again during a two-
day meeting of Asian and European leaders next week in
Vientiane, the capital of  Laos . The Chinese Foreign Ministry on
October 29 said there are no plans for officials of the two
nations to meet during the summit. A Japan expert at the Chinese
Academy of Social Science told the  China Daily  that “most of
Japan’s proposals that have been made public so far are not
constructive, and it has just glossed over things without due
sincerity.”  In the short run, one member of the U.S. delegation said,
there’s little the U.S. can do to resolve the dispute. The best
the U.S. can hope for is to ease tensions, and that’s not
guaranteed to avert any skirmish, he said.  Still, another member said that strong diplomacy in person
by U.S. officials based in the region, as well as high-level
statements made by Clinton and Panetta, does make a difference
and reduces the risks of military conflict.  U.S. Diplomacy  Assistant Secretary of State  Kurt Campbell , the State
Department’s top East Asia official, discussed the islands on
Oct. 23 with Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai at a
conference in San Francisco. Two days later, he discussed it
with Japanese officials in Tokyo.  Of the four delegation members, Steinberg served as
Clinton’s deputy secretary of state and is now dean of the
Maxwell School at Syracuse University in Syracuse,  New York . Nye
was an assistant secretary of defense and chairman of the
National Intelligence Council in the Clinton administration and
is former dean of the Kennedy School of Government at  Harvard
University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Hadley was national security adviser in President  George W. Bush ’s second term and is now a principal at RiceHadleyGates
LLC, an international business consultancy based in Washington
and San Francisco. Armitage served as deputy secretary of state
during Bush’s first term and now heads Armitage International
L.C., an international consultancy based in Arlington, Virginia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  