-- Colony Wins Fannie Foreclosure Auction for $176 Million
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-11-01T22:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/colony-wins-fannie-foreclosure-auction-for-176-million.html
Colony Capital LLC, the investment
firm founded by  Tom Barrack , won an auction of 970 Fannie Mae
foreclosed homes in Arizona,  California  and Nevada in the
largest bulk sale of single-family houses announced to date.  Colony won the auction with a bid of about $176 million,
according to a summary of the transactions posted on the website
of the  Federal Housing Finance Agency . The properties were
valued at $156.8 million in a third-party valuation before they
were put up for sale in February.  Private-equity funds including Colony, Blackstone Group LP
and Waypoint Real Estate Group LLC have disclosed plans to raise
more than $8 billion to buy as many as 80,000 single-family
homes and put them up for rent. Colony, based in Santa Monica,
California, plans to spend about $1.5 billion on such purchases,
seeking to take advantage of a housing-market recovery and
growing demand for rental homes.  Colony paid $34.1 million to become managing partner of the
joint venture with Washington-based  Fannie Mae , according to a
transaction summary posted by the FHFA. Colony will get the
first 20 percent of the rents as a management fee. After that,
Fannie Mae will receive 90 percent of revenue until it gets to
$136.5 million. Then, Fannie Mae’s share will drop to 50
percent.  The Colony portfolio is among about 2,500 foreclosed homes
Fannie Mae put up for auction earlier this year. Pacifica Cos.,
based in San Diego, purchased 699 houses in  Florida , and New
York-based Cogsville Group LLC bought 94 properties in Chicago,
the FHFA said today. A portfolio of homes in Atlanta didn’t find
a buyer.  The U.S.  home vacancy rate  has been falling as an estimated
1.1 million new households were formed in the third quarter,
according to an Oct. 29 Census Bureau report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  