-- Commodities Post Biggest Loss in 5 Months to Trail Stocks
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-11-01T14:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/commodities-post-biggest-loss-in-5-months-to-trail-stocks.html
Slumping energy and metal prices sent
commodities to their biggest monthly loss since May, lagging
behind stocks, bonds and the dollar, as the global economy grew
at the slowest pace since the 2009 recession.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return  Index (MXAP)  of 24 raw
materials fell 4.1 percent, erasing gains for the year. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of stocks slid 0.6 percent, including
dividends, while the U.S. Dollar Index slid 0.02 percent. Bonds
of all types gave positive returns, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index.  Investor optimism dimmed as the  International Monetary Fund 
cut its global growth forecast and the  Federal Reserve  said
strains on the world economy present “significant downside
risks.” China reported the seventh straight quarter of slowing
growth, while services and manufacturing in the 17-nation euro
area last month contracted more than economists forecast.  “Europe is a complete and total disaster and doesn’t
appear to be solved,”  John Stephenson , who helps manage $2.7
billion at First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto,
said in a telephone interview. “China clearly seems to be
slowing. You essentially have a situation where investors just
have very little optimism.”  The S&P GSCI Total Return Index fell for a second month,
leaving the gauge down 0.7 percent for 2012. Commodities are
headed for a second consecutive annual loss for the first time
since 1998. The total return gauge was up 0.2 percent today.  China Slows  China’s economy , the biggest user of everything from copper
to cotton, has slowed for seven straight quarters, the
government said Oct. 18. Greece’s coalition leaders continued to
squabble over measures needed to clinch rescue funds, while in
Spain, where unemployment climbed to a record, Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  weighed whether to apply for a full sovereign
bailout.  “The markets realized that slow growth is still a concern
around the world,”  Michael Cuggino , who manages about $17
billion at San Francisco-based Pacific Heights Asset Management,
said in a telephone interview.  Raw materials may get a boost from the U.S. The Commerce
Department said on Oct. 26 the economy grew at a 2 percent
annual rate in the third quarter, topping the median forecast by
analysts for a 1.8 percent gain.  Consumer confidence  rose to a
five-year high in October, and home sales in September were the
most in two years, figures showed last week.  Quantitative Easing  The GSCI Total Return Index jumped 12 percent in the third
quarter as the Fed announced a third round of so-called
quantitative easing, which involves $40 billion in monthly
purchases of mortgage-backed bonds. Commodities, as measured by
the S&P GSCI Spot Index, surged 92 percent from December 2008
through June 2011 as policy makers bought $2.3 trillion of debt
in two rounds of stimulus.  Speculators anticipate this year’s bid to spur growth won’t
be enough. Bets on rising raw-materials prices shrank for the
third straight week in October, the longest losing streak since
April, data from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
in Washington show. Twenty of the 24 commodities tracked by the
GSCI dropped in October. Gold slid 3.1 percent, the first
decline in five months. Nickel on the London Mercantile Exchange
slumped 12 percent, the first loss in three months, while zinc
fell 11 percent, the most this year.  Boom Ending  Australia’s central bank resumed cutting its benchmark
interest rate on Oct. 2, two weeks after Resources Minister
 Martin Ferguson  said Sept. 17 that the global commodity boom is
over. In the past two months, weaker prices and an elevated
Australian currency prompted mining companies  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  to put off projects and cut
jobs.  “If you’re an investor in industrial materials or
commodities, you realize the party is effectively over,”  Peter Sorrentino , who helps manage about $14.6 billion of assets at
Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, said in a telephone
interview. “The growth in demand is not going to be there.”  Gasoline led commodities lower, plunging 17 percent to
$2.7618 a gallon on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the
sharpest slide since November 2008. The decline erased much of
the 23 percent gain of the third quarter as U.S. refineries
restarted units after repairs and demand sank to a seven-month
low, according to Energy Department data.  Cheaper Gasoline  While pump prices are up 2.3 percent from a year ago, they
fell every day in the past three weeks to $3.521 a gallon, the
lowest since July 31, according to data from the AAA, the
largest U.S. motoring organization. The decline blunts one
weapon of Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , who has
blamed President  Barack Obama  for almost doubling fuel prices
since 2009. The election is Nov. 6.  “I’m expecting prices to continue to fall as we go through
the winter,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates
LLC in Houston. “Supplies are improving and we’re going into
the weaker demand season.”  Crude oil fell 6.5 percent in October to $86.24 a barrel on
the Nymex, the biggest drop since May, as rising U.S. production
drove inventories to the highest level at this time of year in
at least 30 years. Output grew to 6.61 million barrels a day in
the week ended Oct. 19, the highest since May 1995. A
combination of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, has unlocked supplies trapped in shale formations in
North Dakota, Texas and Oklahoma.  “The market is coming to grips with the possibility that
we may have too much supply,” Tom Pawlicki, director of market
research at Chicago-based EOXLive, said in a telephone
interview.  Equities Fall  The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities retreated,
snapping a four-month rally. Trading in the U.S. was halted Oct.
29 and Oct. 30, the longest weather-related shutdown since 1888,
after  Hurricane Sandy  disrupted power supplies and caused
flooding in the Northeast.  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  slumped 2.6 percent last month after the
world’s largest maker of mobile-phone networks said third-
quarter profit declined 43 percent.  DuPont Co. (DD) , the most
valuable U.S. chemical maker by market value, tumbled 11 percent
after saying it would eliminate about 1,500 jobs and posted a
smaller profit than analysts estimated.  “This has been a risk-off month,”  Matt McCormick , who
helps oversee $7.3 billion as a money manager at Cincinnati-
based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., said in a telephone interview. “The
election has heated up, revenues have come out weaker than
expected, Europe is making some more noise. Many people expect
volatility to increase, not decrease.”  Sales Misses  For the 325 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
that have reported  quarterly  results, earnings have risen 0.4
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales missed
analysts’ estimates at 60 percent of the gauge’s companies, the
data show.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.8 percent last month,
while the S&P 500 lost 1.9 percent. The U.S. equity benchmark
will advance 0.3 percent to 1,417 by the end of the year,
according to the average of 14 Wall Street strategists tracked
by Bloomberg. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.4 percent.  Bonds of all types returned 0.3 percent in October on
average, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global
Broad Market Index.  Election Outlook  Fixed-income markets balanced the prospect of an election
victory by Romney, who has said he disagrees with the Fed’s
easing programs and would replace the central bank’s chairman,
with the potential for $607 billion in automatic federal
spending cuts and tax increases at year end to weaken U.S.
economic growth, said Anthony Valeri, a market strategist in San
Diego at LPL Financial, which oversees $350 billion of assets.  Rising long-term bond yields in October “are subtle, but
they simply reflect an improving, even if not decisive, chance
of Romney leadership,” Valeri said. “Ultimately, I think the
fiscal cliff will be a bigger driver. Election impact could be
short-lived.”  Yields on 30-year Treasuries rose four basis points, the
third straight month of increases. The Fed has sought to drive
down unemployment by keeping its target rate for overnight loans
between banks between zero and 0.25 percent since December 2008.
The central bank announced Sept. 13 that it would probably keep
rates at a record low into 2015.  Fixed Income  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index
rallied for a fourth month, the longest streak since 2010. The
gauge, tracking some 19,800 fixed-income securities with a
market value of about $45 trillion, climbed 5.1 percent this
year as of Oct. 31, compared with 5.9 percent in 2011. Average
yields rose 3 basis points to 1.64 percent in October and have
declined from 2.24 percent at the end of 2011.  Investment-grade corporate debt rose 1.1 percent as of Oct.
31, the most since July and the seventh consecutive monthly gain
in the longest advance since 2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. An index of high-yield bonds returned 1.32
percent, the fifth-straight monthly rally. Speculative-grade
debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less
than BBB- at S&P.  Treasuries fell 0.17 percent as of Oct. 31. Yields on 10-
year U.S. government debt are forecast to climb to 1.74 percent
by the end of the year, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists, with the most recent projections given the heaviest
weightings.  Greek bonds were the best performers in October among the
26 sovereign markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, rising 21 percent on
a dollar basis. Portugal was second, with a 4.2 percent gain.
South Africa’s government debt lost the most, declining 4.7
percent.  Dollar Gauge  The U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against
the currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, was little
changed last month after dropping 2.1 percent in the third
quarter. The index has fallen 0.4 percent in 2012.  The gauge will be about unchanged at 80 in the first
quarter of next year from 79.89, according to the median of 11
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  