-- Companies in U.S. Sustain Productivity to Cut Labor Costs
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-11-01T12:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/companies-in-u-s-sustain-productivity-gains-to-cut-labor-costs.html
The productivity of U.S. workers held
up in the third quarter as companies focused on cutting labor
expenses to preserve profits as sales cool.  The measure of employee output per hour climbed at a 1.9
percent annual rate, the same as in the prior three months, a
Labor Department report showed today in Washington. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 60 economists called for a 1.8
percent rise. Costs per worker unexpectedly dropped at a 0.1
percent rate.  The decrease in expenses reflects concern about cooling
overseas markets and the so-called fiscal cliff of tax increases
and government spending cuts that may take effect next year if
lawmakers fail to act. Lower labor costs mean companies can hold
the line on prices, giving Federal Reserve policy makers scope
to keep pumping money into the economy to spur growth.  “Companies are just very uncertain about the future,”
said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , who projected labor costs would drop
0.2 percent. “Demand isn’t particularly strong, so companies
aren’t eager to raise prices. Since you can’t raise prices, you
better be careful about costs.”  Economists’ productivity estimates ranged from 0.5 percent
to 3 percent.  The increase in efficiency for the second quarter was
revised down from a previously reported 2.2 percent gain.  Fewer Claims  Fewer Americans than forecast filed first-time claims for
 unemployment insurance  last week, an indication demand is strong
enough to maintain current staff levels, another report from the
Labor Department showed today.  Applications for  jobless benefits  fell 9,000 to 363,000 in
the week ended Oct. 27, the fewest in three weeks. Economists
forecast 370,000 claims, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. Data for  New Jersey  and the  District of
Columbia  were estimated because those offices were closed due to
 Hurricane Sandy , a spokesman said as the figures were released.  Companies added 158,000 workers in October, a private
report based on payrolls also showed today. The increase in
employment was higher than forecast, according to data from
Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Research Institute. This is the
first ADP report derived using a larger sample and new
methodology.  Stock-index futures rose after the reports. The contract on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.2 percent to 1,409.4
at 8:53 a.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities  fell, sending the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 1.71 percent from 1.69
percent late yesterday.  Labor Costs  The productivity report showed labor expenses fell
following a 1.7 percent advance in the prior three months.  Unit labor costs, which are adjusted for efficiency gains,
were forecast to rise 0.8 percent, the survey median showed.  Adjusted for inflation, hourly earnings decreased at a 0.4
percent rate after increasing at a 2.8 percent pace, today’s
report showed.  Output rose at a 3.2 percent rate, following a 2.1 percent
gain the prior quarter.  Hours worked rose at a 1.3 percent pace, after a 0.2
percent increase. Compensation for each hour worked climbed at
1.8 percent annual pace.  Manufacturers are having a more difficult time sustaining
efficiency. Factory productivity decreased at a 0.4 percent rate
in the third quarter.  Economic Growth  Commerce Department data released last week showed gross
domestic product climbed at a 2 percent annual rate from July
through September after a 1.3 percent pace in the previous three
months. Gains in  consumer spending , defense outlays and
homebuilding boosted growth.  Hiring has been restrained as concern mounts that growth is
not strong enough to weather the more than $600 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts slated to take effect if lawmakers
fail to act by year’s end.  Payrolls rose by 125,000 in October after a 114,000 gain in
September, according to the Bloomberg survey median ahead of a
Labor Department report due tomorrow. The jobless rate probably
advanced to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent, economists predicted.  Cost-cutting efforts are helping some businesses like
 Raytheon Co. (RTN) , the world’s largest missile maker, which boosted
its full-year profit forecast. Waltham, Massachusetts-based
Raytheon has had a net reduction of 3,000 employees so far this
year due to “changes in the mix of the company’s programs,”
spokesman Jon Kasle said. While about half the positions
eliminated were tied to work the company lost, it continues to
hire for areas of business that are growing, officials said.  Raytheon’s performance rests on its “continued focus on
reducing cost and increasing productivity,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Bill Swanson said in an Oct. 25 statement.  Slowing business investment may also limit productivity
improvements. Corporate spending on equipment and software was
unchanged last quarter, the weakest reading in three years,
according to the GDP report released on Oct. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  