-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Held Close to Six-Month High Last Week
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-11-01T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-held-close-to-six-month-high-last-week.html
Consumer confidence  last week held
close to a six-month high as U.S. households became less
pessimistic about the state of the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 34.7 in the
period ended Oct. 28 after improving the previous week to minus
34.6, the highest since mid-April. The measure has been above
minus 40, a level associated with recessions and their
aftermath, for the past six weeks.  Cheaper fuel and a budding housing recovery are
underpinning confidence, with less than a week before the
presidential election. While superstorm Sandy may darken spirits
this week following widespread power outages, flooding and at
least 50 deaths along the East Coast, the drop will probably
prove temporary as Americans’ views of the economy become less
downbeat.  “Stabilization of the home prices, a strong equity market
and falling gasoline prices has bolstered consumer sentiment
over the past several weeks,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. “While the impact of
Hurricane Sandy may temporarily derail that improvement in
coming weeks, the underlying trend in overall sentiment should
reassert itself shortly.”  In a separate report today, the Labor Department said the
number of Americans filing first-time applications for
 unemployment benefits  fell last week. Jobless  claims  dropped by
9,000 to 363,000, the department reported. The agency is
scheduled to issue its monthly report on employment tomorrow.
Payrolls rose by 125,000 in October, while the jobless rate
climbed to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent, according to the median
forecasts of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Stocks Gain  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.2 percent to
1,414.90 at 9:31 a.m. in New York. The index reversed a loss in
the final hour of trading yesterday as equity markets reopened
following a two-day shutdown because of  Hurricane Sandy .  The comfort index’s  state of the economy  gauge rose to
minus 63.1, the highest since March 2008, from minus 64.9 the
previous week. Eighty-two percent of respondents said the
economy is in “bad shape,” the fewest since May 6.  The barometer measuring Americans’ views of their  personal
finances  fell to minus 3.5, the lowest level in five weeks, from
minus 2.4 the previous week. The  buying climate  index decreased
to minus 37.4 from minus 36.3 the previous week.  Cheaper gasoline prices are lifting Americans’ moods. The
average nationwide price for regular  gasoline  at the pump fell
to $3.51 yesterday, according to AAA, the largest U.S. motoring
organization. That’s the lowest level since July. Prices have
fallen every day since Oct. 10 and the pump price reached a 2012
high of $3.94 on April 4.  Home Prices  Rising home prices may also be working to lift sentiment.
The S&P/Case-Shiller index of  property values  in 20 U.S. cities
rose 2 percent from August 2011, the biggest year-to-year gain
since July 2010.  “We’re very pleased with what we’re seeing,” John Foraker, chief executive officer of Berkeley, California-based
Annie’s Inc., an organic food company, said on an earnings
teleconference on Oct. 30. “Improving consumer confidence and
consumers feeling a little bit better about their pocketbook is
also helping.”  The pickup in confidence may help sustain the pace of
spending, which makes up more than 70 percent of the world’s
largest economy. Household purchases rose 0.8 percent in
September, the most since February, the Commerce Department said
on Oct. 29.  Other indicators of consumer confidence have also
increased. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  final
index  of sentiment climbed in October to the highest level since
before the recession began five years ago.  Economy Election  It’s not yet clear how economic assessments will shape the
presidential election on Nov. 6, according to  Gary Langer ,
president of New-York based Langer Research Associates, which
compiles the index for Bloomberg.  “On one hand an improving trend is likeliest to help the
incumbent,” President  Barack Obama , Langer said. At the same
time, the index is “still low enough by historic standards to
put him at serious risk.”  The outcome of the election is too close to call between
Obama and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney , polls show.  Sentiment among Democrats last week dropped to minus 22.9
from minus 22.1 the previous week. Republicans’ confidence
decreased to minus 37.8 last week from minus 37.2 the previous
week. And among  independents , historically the most pessimistic
group, the index rose to minus 40.7, the highest level since the
end of June, from minus 41.6 the previous week.  Seniors Gain  Other demographic groups showing recent gains included
seniors, whose confidence level climbed to the strongest reading
since 2007. The gauge for Americans with annual household
incomes between $75,000 and $100,000 rose to minus 4.2, the
highest level since March 2008.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in  New York , conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers 18 and older. Each week, 250
respondents are asked for their views on the economy, personal
finances and buying climate; the percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  