-- Construction Spending in U.S. Climbs to Highest Level Since 2009
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-11-01T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-climbs-to-highest-level-since-2009.html
Construction spending  climbed  in
September to the highest level in almost three years, led by a
rebound in homebuilding that is rippling through the  U.S.
economy .  The 0.6 percent rise brought outlays up to $851.6 billion,
the most since October 2009, and followed a revised 0.1 percent
August drop that was smaller than previously estimated, the
Commerce Department reported today in  Washington . The  median 
estimate of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.7
percent gain.  Demand for new homes is boosting residential construction
as the real estate market sheds excess distressed properties and
borrowing costs remain at record lows. At the same time,
concerns about the looming “fiscal cliff” of tax increases and
spending cuts set to take effect next year if Congress fails to
act may be holding back non-residential projects, which make up
about 70 percent of construction spending.  “Homebuilders are feeling a bit more optimistic about home
sales going forward” and residential construction has been
helped by low new home inventories,  Ryan Wang , an economist at
HSBC Securities USA Inc. in  New York , said before the report.
Still, “public construction is probably going to stay subdued”
due to fiscal constraints.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of 0.4
percent to a 1.3 percent gain. August was initially reported as
a 0.6 percent decrease.  More Employment  Other reports today showed employment picked up in October,
fewer Americans filed claims for unemployment insurance payments
last week and worker productivity held up in the third quarter.  Companies added 158,000 workers last month, a private
report based on payrolls showed. The increase in employment was
higher than forecast, according to data from Roseland, New
Jersey-based ADP Research Institute.  Applications for  jobless benefits  fell 9,000 to 363,000 in
the week ended Oct. 27, the fewest in three weeks, the Labor
Department reported. Economists forecast 370,000 claims,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Other Labor Department data showed employee output per hour
climbed at a 1.9 percent annual rate, the same as in the prior
three months. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 60
economists called for a 1.8 percent rise. Costs per worker
unexpectedly dropped at a 0.1 percent rate.  Construction spending increased 8.9 percent in the 12
months ended in September before adjustments for seasonal
variations, today’s Commerce Department report showed.  Private construction spending climbed 1.3 percent from the
prior month.  Housing Rebound  Homebuilding outlays increased 2.8 percent to $285.9
billion, the highest level since December 2008. Private non-
residential projects decreased by 0.1 percent as builders broke
ground on fewer healthcare facilities and commercial structures.  “The fiscal cliff certainly seems to have affected
business capital spending of all kinds, including
construction,”  Bill Cheney , chief economist for John Hancock
Financial Services Inc. in  Boston , said before the report. “I
assume we’re going to see a huge boost in construction spending
as we start rebuilding,” probably in the second quarter of next
year, he said.  Spending on public projects dropped 0.8 percent from the
prior month to $271.1 billion, the lowest level since December
2006. Federal construction decreased 6.2 percent, while state
and local agency projects fell 0.3 percent from the prior month.  Home Sales  The housing market recovery has been strengthening.
Purchases of  new homes  rose in September to the highest level in
more than two years, the Commerce Department said last week.
Home values are improving, with the S&P/Case-Shiller index of
prices increasing in the year ended August by the most in two
years, according to data released earlier this week.  Homebuilders like  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY)  are showing tempered
enthusiasm for the rebound in the housing industry.  “While today’s construction levels are still low by
historic standards, all forecasts point to continued recovery in
2013, as we begin to return to long-term trend levels that are
needed to house a growing number of U.S. households,” Daniel
Fulton, the company’s president and chief executive officer,
said on an Oct. 26 earnings call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  