-- Copper Rises Most in Two Weeks on China, U.S. Economic Signals
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-11-01T18:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/copper-rises-most-in-two-weeks-on-china-u-s-economic-signals.html
Copper futures jumped the most in two
weeks on signs that economies are stabilizing in  China , the top
consumer of industrial metals, and the U.S., the second-biggest.  An official Chinese purchasing managers’ index released
today rose to 50.2 in October from 49.8 in September, indicating
the first expansion in three months. Readings above 50 signal
growth. Manufacturing in the U.S. last month expanded more than
economists forecast, and construction spending in September
climbed to the highest in almost three years. Prices are up 2
percent since reaching a seven-week low on Oct. 29.  “We’re seeing somewhat better economic data, and it looks
like the worst may be behind us for the most part,” Frank Cholly, a senior commodity broker at RJO Futures in  Chicago ,
said in a telephone interview.  Copper futures for December delivery climbed 1 percent to
settle at $3.552 a pound at 1:15 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
the biggest gain for a most-active contract since Oct. 17. Last
month, the metal fell 6.4 percent, the most since May.  The metal also climbed after a report showed companies
expanded payrolls in the U.S. last month by the most in eight
months. The increase of 158,000 followed a revised 114,000 gain
in September, ADP Research Institute data showed.  Labor Department figures tomorrow may show employers took
on 125,000 workers in October, not enough to keep the jobless
rate from rising to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “The market is focusing on numbers that are better than
expected today, but we’ll have to wait for the payroll numbers
tomorrow” to see if the gains hold,  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior
market strategist at Archer Financial Services Inc. in Chicago,
said in a telephone interview. “Copper is probably going to be
stuck in a trading range until after the election.”  The  U.S. presidential election  is on Nov. 6.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose 0.9 percent to $7,826 a metric ton ($3.55 a pound).
Aluminum, nickel, lead, zinc and tin also advanced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  