-- Crabby 332-Pound Mom Finds Lover in Hugely Enjoyable Book
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-11-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/crabby-332-pound-mother-finds-lover-in-hugely-enjoyable-novel.html
Edie Middlestein weighs 332 pounds.
Her overeating has brought about an advanced case of diabetes,
which has led to arterial disease in her legs. She needs
surgery. Also, she’s not a nice person.  Edie is the central but not quite the dominant character in
“ The Middlesteins ,” a hugely enjoyable novel by  Jami Attenberg .
It’s written in the form of short stories, with one or more
devoted to (almost) every member of the family: Edie and her
out-of-patience husband, Richard; their children and
grandchildren; and various in-laws, lovers and friends.  The event that sets them in motion occurs near the
beginning. Richard, after close to 40 years of marriage, decides
that he’s had it -- and not just because Edie is literally
eating herself to death:  “My wife,” he explains defensively, “who is a very smart
woman who has done a lot of good for a lot of people so I can’t
totally knock her, my wife made me miserable, she picked at me
till I bled on a daily basis.” Note the  Yiddish  inflections,
evidence that the Jewish-American novel is alive and thriving.  We learn a lot about the family through the way each of its
members reacts to the impending divorce: acceptance (Edie and
Richard’s put-upon son, Benny); cold rage (their malcontent
daughter, Robin); disgust (Benny’s controlling wife, Rachelle).  Attenberg has the Tolstoyan gift for creating life on the
page. Sometimes all she needs to capture a soul is a couple of
sentences. But the pleasure she takes in these people goes
beyond compassion.  Family Dysfunction  The Middlesteins are a dysfunctional family, no question
about that, and each of them is unappealing (or at best
uninteresting) in a different way -- from the outside.  From the inside is a different story. When Attenberg shows
us the world through their eyes, they’re not just interesting
and sympathetic; they’re a treat to be with. I didn’t want a
single one of their narratives to end.  And something even more: Attenberg is generous to them all,
and not just in the usual sense that she’s got empathy to
bestow. She grants each of them love -- a personal present from
the author playing God the beneficent.  Even Edie gets a new boyfriend, a man who relishes watching
her eat and, far from recoiling at her girth, adores her
enormous breasts. The finest and most beautiful of these gifts
-- a real surprise -- arrives on the final page.  So you’re never asked to feel sorry for anyone (not that
they don’t feel plenty sorry for themselves), and as a result
the book isn’t merely a delight to read: It lifts you up.  Polished Sentences  As for the prose, every sentence is carefully polished,
every word fastened in place. That kind of meticulousness can
lead to airlessness, but not here. If “The Middlesteins” never
feels spontaneous, it compensates by feeling photographic.  Still, there’s a downside to this kind of perfection, which
is that Attenberg doesn’t deal with large themes. A just retort
would be that neither does  Jane Austen . So I’m not complaining.  I am, however, expressing the desire to see Attenberg take
the kind of risks that would allow her to claim a place next to
Faulkner and Roth and Pynchon and Franzen -- the big boys with
the big ideas. She’s got the instrument. Has she got the nerve?  “The Middlesteins” is from  Grand Central (MMB)  (272 pages,
$24.99). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Craig Seligman is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Greg Evans 
on TV.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Craig Seligman  at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 