-- Credit Suisse Raises $420 Million to Create Mexico Fund
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-11-01T00:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/credit-suisse-raises-420-million-to-create-mexico-focused-fund.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  raised $420
million for a new investment fund focused on  Mexico , as
Switzerland’s second-largest bank taps clients in an economy
forecast to grow twice as fast as  Brazil ’s.  The Credit Suisse Mexico Credit Opportunities Trust raised
the money from institutional investors, including some of
Mexico’s largest pension funds, Zurich-based Credit Suisse said
in an e-mailed statement. The fund, managed by Andres Borrego,
will be listed on the Mexican stock exchange, said Suzanne Fleming, a New York-based spokeswoman.  The fund seeks “to capture opportunities presented by
structural inefficiencies in the Mexican credit market through
investments in a diversified portfolio of alternative assets
with debt-like characteristics,” the bank said in the
statement. Targets include debt instruments such as loans and
bonds, Fleming said.  Investors outside Mexico have poured a record amount into
fixed-income securities in the country this year. Through Oct.
24, mutual funds, pensions and  hedge funds  based outside the
country have put $6.81 billion into Mexican fixed-income
securities, according to data compiled by Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR Global.  Latin America’s second-biggest economy will expand 3.8
percent this year, according to the median of 30 forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s about twice the pace of growth
projected in the U.S. and Brazil.  ‘Liquid Strategies’  Credit Suisse is adding to its stable of hedge funds under
a plan to offer customers more investment vehicles focused on
stocks, bonds and “liquid strategies.” Emerging markets have
been a theme over the past two years. In 2010 the bank and three
of its shareholders started a $1 billion fund to invest in
 emerging markets . Another fund was started for Brazil, according
to the e-mailed statement.  The bank is in talks with Qatar to form a venture that will
invest in the  Middle East  and North Africa and may expand later
to include other emerging and frontier markets, said a person
with knowledge of the decision who asked not to be named, citing
the sensitivity of the matter.  This week the company named Bob Jain, head of Credit
Suisse’s stocks division for the past four years, to a new post
overseeing about $60 billion of assets, according to an internal
memo obtained by  Bloomberg News  and confirmed by Fleming. They
include hedge funds, credit strategies, funds of hedge funds and
commodities, she said.  Borrego, who’s based in  New York , has transferred to the
money-management division from the investment bank, according to
the statement. Manuel Ramos, formerly the head risk manager and
trader for the Latin American financing group, will help run the
fund, the bank said.  The new fund will be structured as a closed-end structured
credit trust, according to statement. The trust issued the peso
equivalent of $420 million in equity securities known as
Certificados de Capital de Desarrollo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   or @liqquidity on  Twitter;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 