-- Crescent Point to Buy Ute Energy for $784 Million
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-11-01T21:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/crescent-point-agrees-to-buy-ute-energy-for-784-million-1-.html
(Corrects currency of share price in last paragraph.)  Crescent Point Energy Corp. (CPG) , the most
acquisitive in  Canada ’s energy sector this year, agreed to buy
closely held Ute Energy Upstream Holdings LLC for $784 million
in cash. The company will also assume about $77 million of Ute’s
net debt.  Ute Energy produces the equivalent of 7,800 barrels of oil
a day in the Uinta Basin in northeast Utah, Calgary-based
Crescent Point said in a statement today.  Crescent Point, Canada’s seventh-largest oil and natural
gas producer, recovers light oil primarily from tight formations
in Saskatchewan by flooding reservoirs with water. The company
may employ its technology in the Uinta Basin oil shale, where
Ute was evaluating water floods, said Mason Granger, who manages
C$500 million ($502 million) at Sentry Investments Inc.  “The reality is that most of the obvious consolidation
targets in Canada, they had bought,” Granger, who also owns
Crescent Point, said in a phone interview today from Toronto.  The Uinta Basin opportunity is a “new core area for
Crescent Point” and consistent with the company’s strategy of
acquiring “high-quality, large oil-in-place pools with long-
term upside potential,” Scott Saxberg, chief executive officer
of the company, said in the statement.  Seeking Targets  The company was looking for U.S. targets as part of a
continental search for assets, Saxberg, 44, said in an interview
with  Bloomberg News  at his Calgary office on Oct. 18. The
company also operates in  North Dakota  and Montana.  Crescent Point acquired three Calgary-based oil and gas
companies and made three other asset purchases this year in
Western Canada, topping four acquisitions by  Pacific Rubiales
Energy Corp. (PRE)  and three by  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , figures compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Ute is 51 percent-owned by the Ute Indian Tribe and 49
percent-owned by Houston private-equity company Quantum Energy
Partners, according to its website.  Crescent Point will increase its 2012  capital spending  by
C$150 million to C$1.4 billion. The transaction is expected to
close by Nov. 30.  The company’s shares fell 0.3 percent to C$41.44 at the
close in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  