-- Crossroads Experiment Targets Secret Money at Congress
-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 2012-11-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/crossroads-experiment-targets-secret-money-at-congress.html
American Crossroads and Crossroads
Grassroots Policy Strategies share an address, a president, a
spokesman and a political outlook.  When it comes to fundraising and spending, they part ways.  Crossroads GPS, which doesn’t disclose its donors, has
poured $75.3 million into television ads to help Republicans win
House and Senate seats and take the White House, according to
Kantar Media’s CMAG ad tracking service. Its sister
organization, American Crossroads, has spent $58.6 on television
ads, almost exclusively on the presidential race.  The disproportionate amount of money from unknown donors,
which could include corporations and individuals, that is being
plowed into congressional races may be an effort to shield the
contributors from retribution if the candidate they attack
eventually wins, said  Trevor Potter , a former chairman of the
 Federal Election Commission .  “The statement I hear most often is that I want to spend
money in politics, but I don’t want anyone to know because
someone might object or I might face reprisals,” said Potter,
who is now president of the Campaign Legal Center, which
advocates disclosure in elections.  The Crossroads experiment also shows, given the choice,
major Republican political donors prefer to operate in secret --
a precedent that likely establishes a model for future
campaigns. Both groups declined to comment for this article.  No Fingerprints  “That such massive amounts of huge contributions have gone
to Crossroads GPS tells us that a relatively small number of
very wealthy individuals want to have disproportionate influence
on the 2012 elections without leaving any public fingerprints,”
said  Fred Wertheimer , president of Demcracy21, a group that
advocates for limits in campaign spending.  The groups, founded simultaneously with the guidance of
Republican political consultant  Karl Rove , share offices,
management, consultants, and creative talent.  Crossroads GPS has spent about $36.5 million to run 72,849
TV spots supporting former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  in
his challenge to President  Barack Obama  for the White House,
according CMAG. In that race, American Crossroads has been even
more active, spending an estimated $51 million on 57,302 spots.  GPS has used more than half of its cash -- about $39
million -- to boost Republican House and Senate candidates in
close races and in competitive states. Many of the more than
23,000 ads by CMAG’s count use the tactic of criticizing the
Democratic candidate by tying him or her to the president’s
policies, allowing the ad to serve double duty as an anti-Obama
ad as well.  New York Ads  A recent commercial against  New York  Democrat Louise Slaughter is an example.  “Congresswoman Louise Slaughter strongly supported
President Obama’s failed stimulus,” the narrator says, listing
government financed programs including “$25 billion for snow-
making in  Vermont .”  American Crossroads hasn’t run any ads in House races,
according to CMAG. It’s spent $7.6 million in the Senate,
compared with more than $35 million from GPS.  Crossroads GPS has spent $8.7 million to run 13 different
ads opposing former Virginia Governor  Tim Kaine ’s campaign for
Senate against Republican former Governor George Allen.  One spot that hit the airwaves earlier this month attacks
Kaine for raising taxes.  “Kaine pushed  tax  hikes on people making just $17,000 a
year,” the ad says. “Then Kaine backed Obamacare, and its tax
on the middle class.”  Virginia Senate  Kaine spokeswoman Brandi Hoffine said the campaign has had
to spend time and money refuting the Crossroads GPS ads.  “In terms of making up what Allen is lacking in terms of
grassroots support, Crossroads is making up for that,” Hoffine
said.  In the seven days ending Oct. 27, Crossroads GPS ran 5,860
ads in Senate races and 2,870 in House races while American
Crossroads ran 1,758 in the Senate only.  The money from those unnamed donors can mean the difference
between a candidate being competitive in a race or being unable
to compete on fundraising.  In  Ohio , Democratic Senator  Sherrod Brown  has raised $22.4
million according to the Center for Responsive Politics while
his opponent, Republican Josh Mandel, has taken in $14.5
million.  However, Crossroads GPS spent $11.2 million in the state
through Oct. 18, Mandel’s campaign spokesman Travis Considine
said.  Court Rulings  A series of court rulings in recent years have overturned
campaign finance laws and allowed corporations, non-profits and
unions to spend unlimited amounts in political advertising as
long as they don’t coordinate with a campaign. This led to the
creation in 2010 and since then of dozens of non-profits like
Crossroads GPS, which take in donations from individuals and
companies in secret and spend it on the election.  “The idea that we’re having an election in which a
significant amount of people don’t have the courage of their
convictions to say that they’ve given this money takes us back
to the Watergate era,” said Lee Drutman, a senior fellow at the
Sunlight Foundation, which advocates for transparency in
elections.  Nationally, groups that aren’t affiliated with a campaign
or party have already spent $855.4 million this election cycle,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Of that, groups
that don’t disclose the identities of their donors spent $265.4
million. These figures capture only expenditures that are
reported to the FEC, which don’t include all television ads and
voter-turnout operations.  Democratic Group  A Democratic group that tried to emulate the Crossroads
model failed to find many takers for secrecy.  Bill Burton , a
former Obama spokesman who founded the super-political action
committee Priorities USA Action said he couldn’t attract
contributors who wanted to give money to the group’s non-profit
arm, Priorities USA, which doesn’t disclose donors.  “People were much less interested in participating with a
group that didn’t disclose,” he said. CMAG shows no advertising
by the non-profit group.  Of course, some individuals and companies choose to make
political donations in the open.  Texas businessman Harold Simmons has donated $17.5 million
on American Crossroads according to the Center for Responsive
Politics. Oilman T. Boone Pickens gave the group $1 million in
October.  When asked why he chose American Crossroads over GPS,
Pickens spokesman Jay Rosser said, “Easy answer. He believes in
transparency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgeraldk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  