-- Czech Yield Has Record Drop on Surprise Rate Cut: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-11-01T16:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/czech-koruna-weakens-for-second-day-before-rates-prague-mover.html
Czech five-year bond yields tumbled
the most ever and the koruna slid to its weakest in almost three
months after the central bank unexpectedly cut interest rates.  The  yield  on 2017 koruna debt slumped 22 basis points, or
0.22 percentage point, to 0.78 percent, the biggest drop and the
lowest level since Bloomberg began tracking the generic index in
1997. The koruna depreciated 0.3 percent to 25.165 per euro by
4:48 p.m. in Prague, the worst performance among major emerging-
market peers, after earlier touching 25.235, its weakest since
Aug. 13.  The Czech National Bank slashed its key two-week repurchase
rate to a record 0.05 percent today from 0.25 percent. Fifteen
of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expected no change and
seven predicted a cut. Data published yesterday showed a gauge
of manufacturing fell to a three-year low and the government
lowered its economic forecasts for this year and next.  “They did more than we expected,” said Dalimil Vyskovsky,
chief fixed-income trader at Komercni Banka AS in  Prague . The
unit of Societe Generale SA forecast a cut to 0.1 percent, he
said by phone. “With rates this low for a prolonged period,
shorter yields may keep lower too. But we are near the bottom.”  The CNB seeks to prevent inflation from slowing to below
the 2 percent target as household and government spending cuts
helped fuel a second recession in three years. Gross domestic
product may shrink 1 percent this year and grow 0.7 percent next
year, the government said yesterday, after earlier forecasts for
a 0.5 percent drop and 1 percent expansion, respectively.  ‘Strong Position’  Czech policy makers are considering using other tools to
relax conditions after lowering the benchmark from 0.75 percent
this year to near the zero level seen in  Japan  and Switzerland.
Steps to weaken the koruna will be the next move should further
monetary easing be needed, Governor Miroslav Singer said today.  “The CNB has taken a strong position, making it clear that
the koruna now doesn’t have much room for gains,” David Sykora,
chief currency trader at CSOB AS in Prague, said by phone today.
“Economic results may send the koruna somewhere toward 26 -- a
freebie for the central bank.”  Czech bonds have rallied this year, sending the five-year
yield down 170 basis points, even as Prime Minister Petr Necas
struggles to win backing for tax increases, designed to help cut
the budget deficit. Necas seeks re-election as Civic Democrat
leader on Nov. 3-4 after a group of lawmakers from his party
said they would vote against his austerity package.  The country’s debt has the highest credit rating in central
and eastern  Europe , on par with Estonia, and is the cheapest to
insure with credit-default swaps. Improving perceptions of
creditworthiness lowered the Czech five-year default swaps by
2.5 basis points today to 78, within one basis point of the
lowest since June 2011 reached on Oct. 26.  ‘Big Question’  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Public debt accounts for 44 percent of GDP in the Czech
Republic, below 55 percent in  Poland , 79 percent in  Hungary  and
an average of 92 percent for the euro area, European Commission
estimates for 2012 show. Necas’s plans to limit indebtedness
would enhance the country’s status of a “regional safe haven,”
Moody’s Investors Service said in a report on Oct. 15.  The government won’t have any reason to remain in office if
parliament rejects the tax plan, Finance Minister Miroslav
Kalousek said on Oct. 28.  “The big question is what will happen if the government
falls next week,” Komercni Banka’s Vyskovsky said. “That would
be at least a short-term negative for bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  