-- Czechs Cut Rates Close to Zero as Recession Tames Inflation
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-11-01T15:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/czechs-cut-rates-close-to-zero-as-economic-outlook-worsens-1-.html
The Czech central bank cut its main
 interest rate  to close to zero and vowed not to raise borrowing
costs for a “longer” period as the nation’s second recession
since 2009 tames inflation.  The Ceska Narodni Banka reduced the main two-week
 repurchase  rate to a record-low 0.05 percent, almost three-
quarters of a point below the euro-area benchmark. Seven
economists in a Bloomberg survey had predicted a lowering of
borrowing costs from the previous 0.25 percent rate, while 15
analysts expected no change.  Czech policy makers are considering using other tools to
relax conditions after lowering the  benchmark  rate from 0.75
percent this year to near the zero level seen in  Japan  and
 Switzerland . With the economy mired in a slump amid  Europe ’s
debt crisis, central bank Governor Miroslav Singer reiterated
today that weakening the koruna will be the next move should
further monetary easing be required.  “The bank will wait before restoring rates to above the
technical-zero level until it sees significant inflationary
pressures,” Singer said at a press conference today. The bank’s
new forecast assumes an increase in market interest rates in
2014, he said.  Weaker Koruna  The koruna, which weakened as much as 0.5 percent against
the euro after the rate announcement, traded 0.2 percent weaker
at 25.134 as of 3:58 p.m. in  Prague , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Interest-rate cuts have helped fuel a Czech bond
rally. The  yield  on five-year koruna notes fell 21 basis points,
or 0.21 percentage point, to a record-low 0.792 percent.  Monetary authorities in eastern  European Union members  are
following central banks in the U.S. and U.K. in easing policy to
tackle an economic slowdown as Europe fights a debt crisis.
 Hungary ’s central bank cut its main interest rate by a quarter-
point to 6.25 percent on Oct. 30, the third reduction in as many
months.  The Czech  economy  is suffering from weak domestic demand
after the government cut investments and raised taxes to trim
the budget gap.  Czech  gross domestic product  fell 0.2 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months, the third consecutive
contraction, after consumers responded to the worsening economic
outlook by spending less.  New Outlook  The central bank kept its forecast for a 0.9 percent
contraction of GDP this year and cut next year’s prediction to
0.2 percent growth from 0.8 percent. Headline inflation next
year will hover “slightly above” the target of 2 percent, the
bank said in a quarterly update of its forecasts today.  Monetary-policy inflation, defined as price growth adjusted
for changes in indirect taxes, will be between 1 percent and 2
percent next year, the bank said.  Consumer prices  grew  3.4 percent in September, less than
the central bank’s estimate of 3.5 percent. The inflation rate
has been above the 3 percent upper end of the bank’s tolerance
range this year because of factors outside the influence of
monetary policy, including a sales-tax increase and global
commodity costs.  Policy Inflation  Inflation relevant for monetary policy was 2.1 percent in
September, according to central bank data.  While the country maintains a foreign-trade  surplus , export
growth was the slowest since the end of 2009 in the second
quarter as the euro area’s crisis curbed purchases of electronic
goods and cars. Exports account for three-quarters of Czech GDP,
with about 80 percent going to the 27-nation EU.  Singer declined to give any details on possible foreign-
exchange interventions.  With the Czech “government wedded to fiscal austerity,
monetary policy will have to provide the maximum possible
support,”  Neil Shearing , chief emerging-markets economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said in a note after the
decision. “At the same time, a move toward unconventional
measures may not happen quickly. Despite today’s decision, the
CNB remains a highly conservative institution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  