-- Dana Holds Talks to Amend $1 Billion Sukuk Terms
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-11-01T07:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/dana-holds-talks-to-amend-1-billion-sukuk-terms-as-profit-drops.html
Dana Gas PJSC (DANA)  said it’s in talks with
creditors to extend and amend the terms of about $1 billion in
sukuk that matured yesterday as the United Arab Emirates fuel
producer’s third-quarter profit dropped 27 percent.  The company, based in the U.A.E. emirate of Sharjah, hasn’t
paid the principal amount of $920 million or the accrued profit
of $18.75 million, it said in a statement to the Abu Dhabi
bourse today. The shares, which plunged 8.9 percent yesterday,
gained 2.4 percent to 42 fils at 10:53 a.m. in the emirate.  The company’s 7.5 percent Shariah-compliant notes slumped
this year, missing a rally in regional sukuk, after political
upheaval in  Egypt  and  Iraq ’s Kurdish region, the gas producer’s
main sources of revenue, led to payment delays and triggered a
funding shortage.  Net income  dropped to 104 million dirhams ($28
million) from 143 million dirhams a year earlier, missing the
164 million-dirham estimate of EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We still believe that this will be restructured but the
risk of a default has grown dramatically over the last few
days,” Gus Chehayeb, Dubai-based research director for the
 Middle East  and North Africa at Exotix Ltd., said.  Amending Terms  The announcement casts doubt on whether the company has
reached a so-called standstill agreement with creditors, he
said. The two sides last month reached such an accord, under
which creditors make no effort to collect debt payments, a
person familiar with the talks said Oct. 30. The agreement will
be effective until one party decides to end it, the person said,
asking not to be identified because the information is private.
Dana Gas made no mention of the deal in its public statements.  “Dana Gas is in ongoing discussions with an ad-hoc
committee of sukuk holders over terms to amend and extend the
sukuk,” the company said today.  Deutsche Bank AG, Blackstone Group LP and Latham & Watkins
LLP are advising Dana in the sukuk talks. Holders of the Islamic
debt hired London-based law firm Linklaters LLP, three people
familiar with the matter said in May.  The debt is secured against Dana Gas’ Egyptian assets as
well as Sajaa Gas Private Ltd. and United Gas Transmissions Co.,
part of a venture to supply Iranian gas to the U.A.E. that
hasn’t yet started. The company said it had paid $356 million to
bondholders over the past five years.  Dana Gas’s third-quarter net revenue fell 12 percent to 395
million dirhams, while trade and other receivables, representing
money owed to the company, rose to $622 million at the end of
September from $501 million three months earlier.  “The results that came out are quite disappointing,”
Chehayeb said.  The company said its funding challenges were “short
term,” adding it was “encouraged” by recent developments on
outstanding payments. The Egyptian government “in particular
made significant efforts to address the backlog of payments
due,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  