-- Davey Calls for CO2 Emissions Target for U.K. Industry
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-11-01T17:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/davey-calls-for-co2-emissions-reduction-target-for-u-k-industry.html
U.K. Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  called
on the government to agree on a 2030 target to cut power sector
emissions, after industry said the absence of such a goal
undermines Britain’s low-carbon electricity plans.  “There is huge support for industry for this measure and I
hope that we can win that argument in this House,” Davey said
today in Parliament. He noted that the measure, which has
support from companies including  Electricite de France SA  and
Marks & Spencer Group Plc, needs approval from all of his
colleagues in the coalition administration to go ahead.  Chancellor  George Osborne , a Conservative lawmaker, is wary
of a target that would limit hopes for expanding gas-fired
plants as a way to ensure growing power demand is met. He has
suggested holding back on adopting more ambitious targets.  More than 50 companies and industry groups  wrote to  Osborne
on Oct. 8 saying the gas plans and lack of carbon intensity goal
hurt confidence for those investing in cleaner forms of
generation in the U.K., which needs 110 billion pounds ($178
billion) by 2020 to replace plants, upgrade grids and curb
emissions.  “I do think there is a case for a decarbonization target
for power sector,” Davey said. The energy secretary too has
said gas must play a central part in Britain’s plans to shift to
a low-carbon economy though has denied a “ dash for gas .”  Recommendations  The Committee on  Climate Change , the government’s
independent climate adviser, has urged the government to
introduce a target to reduce the carbon intensity of power
generation to about 50 grams of carbon dioxide a kilowatt-hour
by 2030 to meet its 2050 emissions cutting goals, using the
Energy Bill. The Bill did not include a 2030 target when
published in draft form in May.  Greg Barker , a junior minister, said during the same
Parliament session that the government was considering including
a feed-in tariff for  energy efficiency  in the bill.  The efficiency proposals being discussed would be the
“most transformational, radical proposals on energy efficiency
ever introduced in this place,” Barker said. The measures may
be included through amendments to the bill as it progresses, he
said. Davey said today the bill would be put before parliament
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  