-- Democrats Press Rivals to Give Source of Akin Ad Funds
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-11-01T20:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/democrats-press-rivals-to-give-source-of-akin-ad-funds.html
The  National Republican Senatorial
Committee  should say whether it provided several hundred
thousand dollars for a last-minute ad buy benefiting Missouri
Republican Todd Akin’s campaign, Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee executive director Guy Cecil said.  “The NRSC knows full well that they don’t have to disclose
this spending until after the election, and are purposely
misleading the media and voters until then,” Cecil said in a
statement today.  The Republican campaign committee announced it wouldn’t
spend money to support Akin after he said Aug. 19 that
“legitimate rape” rarely results in pregnancy. Akin is trying
to defeat first-term Democratic Senator  Claire McCaskill , and
Republican leaders abandoned his campaign after his remark about
rape.  Akin’s spokesman,  Rick Tyler , confirmed that the Missouri
Republican Party provided $387,000 for ads backing Akin to run
in the days before the Nov. 6 election.  The source of the funds hasn’t been disclosed. NRSC
spokesman  Brian Walsh  declined to comment on whether the
national Republican campaign organization provided money to the
state party to help pay for the ads. Akin on the same day spent
$300,000 of his campaign money on new ads.  NRSC Chairman  John Cornyn  said in a Sept. 20 interview that
the campaign organization wouldn’t provide funding for Akin,
even if the race was close in the final days.  ‘Candidates Matter’  “We’re done,” Cornyn said at the time. “Candidates
matter, and the campaign they run matters.”  The Missouri Republican Party had $375,081 in its federal
account as of Oct. 17, according to the Federal Election
Commission. A spokesman for the Missouri Republican Party didn’t
respond to a request for comment as to whether the NRSC or
another group transferred money to help fund Akin’s advertising.  Akin had $543,767 in campaign funds as of Oct. 17.  Through Oct. 27, McCaskill and Democratic-aligned groups
spent $11 million on 18,427 general election ad spots, compared
with $2.6 million that Akin and his supporters spent on 5,232
general election spots, according to New York-based Kantar
Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  The nonpartisan Cook Political Report in Washington rates
McCaskill, once considered among the most vulnerable Senate
Democrats, as likely to win the Missouri Senate race. Before
Akin’s comments, she trailed him and other potential Republican
candidates in polls.  Outside Groups  In the final days of his campaign, Akin is receiving help
from other groups. Among them is Now or Never PAC, a super-
political action committee, which is spending $804,000 on
television advertising to support Akin, according to a  Federal
Election Commission  filing today.  The super-PAC is funded mainly by a $1.95 million donation
in September from Americans for Limited Government, a free-
market advocacy organization based in Fairfax, Virginia. Now or
Never PAC is backing Akin after supporting one of his Republican
rivals, former Missouri Treasurer Sarah Steelman, in the August
primary.  Minnesota Republican Representative  Michele Bachmann ’s
leadership political action committee gave $2,500 to Akin’s
campaign on Oct. 30.  Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  is among the
party leaders who called on Akin to leave the race.  Akin, a six-term U.S. representative, apologized for the
comments about rape though he refused to end his Senate
candidacy. He later won the backing of some in the Republican
Party’s small-government wing, including Senator  Jim DeMint  of
South Carolina and former presidential candidates  Newt Gingrich 
and  Rick Santorum .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  