-- Deutsche Bank Faces Top Surcharge as FSB Shuffles Tiers
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-11-02T02:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/deutsche-bank-jpmorgan-may-face-top-g-20-capital-charges.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  would be required to
hold more capital and  Bank of America Corp. ’s burden stands to
be reduced as global regulators shuffled the competitive balance
among the world’s biggest banks.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
join Deutsche Bank as firms that will be targeted for a capital
surcharge of 2.5 percent, according to an updated list published
yesterday by the Financial Stability Board. The change means
Bank of America already exceeds requirements, while Deutsche
Bank would be more than 2 percentage points below the new
minimum of 9.5 percent.  “That limits earnings potential for Citigroup, JPMorgan
and Deutsche Bank compared to Bank of America, all other things
being equal, so it’s certainly a competitive advantage for
them,” said  David Kass , a professor at the University of
 Maryland ’s Robert H. Smith School of Business.  The capital surcharges for systemic banks, set in half-
percentage-point increments ranging from 1 percent to 2.5
percent, come on top of agreements by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  to more than triple the core reserves they
must hold against possible losses. The extra requirements are
calculated against banks’ interconnectedness, size, complexity,
global reach, and the ability of other firms to take over their
functions if they fail.  RBS, Dexia  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc will be subject to a 1.5 percent
buffer, down 1 percentage point from last year’s  list . Three
banks --  Dexia SA (DEXB) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Commerzbank AG -
- were removed from the list, the FSB said.  Standard Chartered
Plc (STAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , which weren’t
included in 2011, were added to the lowest surcharge group.  Dexia is being broken up by the French and Belgian
governments after losing access to unsecured funding. The other
two have seen a “decline in their global systemic importance,”
the FSB said. The quality of data it used in determining the
list “improved considerably” from last year, the group said.  “It would have been more helpful if FSB explained why some
banks fell off the list and why some joined or moved around
buckets -- does this mean the framework was wrong last year?”
said  Barbara Matthews , managing director of BCM International
Regulatory Analytics LLC, a Washington-based consulting firm.
“This is a classic case of informational asymmetry between
banks, regulators and markets that perpetuates moral hazard.”  Capital Levels  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  last year
predicted a “race to the top” as lenders tried to meet
requirements well before the deadline and said his company would
win business because of its higher capital levels.  Investment banks that aren’t in the top group will have to
see if clients care whether they have as much capital as
Citigroup and JPMorgan, said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based
analyst at Mediobanca SpA.  “The guys at the top are stuck, and the guys below are
scratching their heads and saying, ‘Do we have to go up and be
in line to be competitive,’” Wheeler said. “If your clients
don’t worry, you’re probably fine” to hold lower equity
capital, he said.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  may face surcharges of 2
percent. BNP, based in Paris, and Edinburgh-based RBS were
previously targeted for the highest 2.5 percent surcharges.
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, the second-
largest U.S. lender, now faces  capital requirements  a full point
lower than JPMorgan and Citigroup, the first- and third-biggest.  ‘Head-Scratcher’  “Bank of America is a head-scratcher,” said Christopher Kotowski, an Oppenheimer & Co. analyst. “How you would come to
the conclusion that Bank of America is less of a SIFI and less
risky than JPMorgan and Citibank is just a real puzzler.”  Bank of America said last month that it had an estimated
Basel III common equity ratio of 8.97 percent, above the 8.5
percent it would need with the surcharge in yesterday’s list.
Still, U.S. regulators may be cautious in letting the lender
return capital to shareholders in the form of dividends or
buybacks, Kotowski said.  Deutsche Bank said earlier this week that it plans to have
a Basel III ratio of 7.2 percent at the end of this year, below
the 9.5 percent it would need with a 2.5 percent surcharge. The
lender set a target of more than 10 percent by March 31, 2015.  “This ups the ante for Deutsche Bank,” Wheeler said.
“They haven’t been in a great hurry to get where they probably
need to be. We’ve been rattling on about how weak their capital
is.”  Deutsche Bank  Then-CEO  Josef Ackermann  said last year he was proud that
 Germany ’s biggest lender was considered the world’s most
systemically important financial institution by Japanese
regulators.  Japan ’s Financial Services Agency and central bank
ranked Deutsche Bank the most important among 60 peers based on
the impact their failure would have on the global financial
system, the Mainichi newspaper reported in December 2010.  Some banks in the European Union already face requirements
to hold core reserves equivalent to 9 percent of their risk-
weighted assets, after sovereign-debt writedowns, under plans
adopted by EU regulators in response to the bloc’s fiscal
crisis.  9 Percent  The definition of what banks can count as capital to meet
the international surcharges is stricter than that used by the
EU, which allows lenders to use some contingent convertible
instruments to meet the 9 percent threshold.  Standard Chartered already exceeds the capital levels it
needs to meet the requirements, said Doris Fan, a Hong Kong-
based spokeswoman for the bank. “Our inclusion in the list does
not change the way we run the bank or think about our  capital
structure ,” she said in an e-mail.  Large international lenders would have faced a 374.1
billion-euro shortfall ($483.8 billion) in the capital needed to
meet the Basel capital rules had they been in force at the end
of 2011, according to data published by the Basel committee in
September. The figure factors in the surcharges for globally
systemic banks.  Other changes included  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,
which moved from 1 percent to 1.5 percent, pushing its total
requirement to 8.5 percent.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  moved down half a
point to 1 percent.  “Our global scale and activities probably prompted the
adjustment,” Yuji Okumura, a spokesman for Tokyo-based
Mitsubishi UFJ, Japan’s biggest publicly traded bank, said by
phone today. He said the lender already had an estimated Basel
III common equity ratio of at least 9 percent as of June 30.  Japan Megabanks  Japanese Financial Services Minister Ikko Nakatsuka told
reporters he’s not concerned that Mitsubishi UFJ’s proposed
capital surcharge was raised.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. (8316)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , the country’s other two
so-called megabanks, remain on the list with targeted surcharges
of 1 percent.  The capital buffers are scheduled to be phased in beginning
Jan. 1, 2016, the FSB has said. The updated list was based on
banks’ data at the end of 2011, the group said. The FSB said
last year regulators would update the list annually, with each
revision to be published in November. The 2014 version will be
the first to be applied.  “A lot of work remains to be done on determining what risk
weightings these banks will ultimately be subject to,”  Richard Reid , research director for the International Centre for
Financial Regulation in  London , said in an e-mail. It’s also
unclear how capital rules will “be applied in the coming
years.”  Shrink Further  Regulators have said the list may shrink further as lenders
take steps to reduce their systemic importance and ensure they
can be wound down if they fail.  “There should come a day” when the list is blank, Stephen Cecchetti, head of the monetary and economic department at the
 Bank for International Settlements , said in an October speech.
“That day will come when either the institutions change, the
rules change, or both.”  The FSB published the updated list ahead of a meeting of
Group of 20 finance ministers starting Nov. 4. The FSB brings
together central bankers, regulators and government officials
from G-20 nations to coordinate financial rule-making.  Others included on the list are Bank of  New York  Mellon
Corp.,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) , Bank of China Ltd., Groupe BPCE,  ING Groep NV (INGA) ,
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , State
Street Corp.,  Unicredit SpA (UCG) , and Wells Fargo & Co.  “Citi’s estimated Tier 1 common ratio of 8.6 percent under
Basel 3 at the end of the third quarter is among the highest in
the industry,” said  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for  New York- 
based Citigroup. “We expect to continue to generate capital
through earnings and divestitures of non-core assets.”  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman, JPMorgan’s
Mark Kornblau and BNP’s Cesaltine Gregorio all declined to
comment on the FSB report.  Duncan King , a spokesman for Deutsche
Bank, and Mary Guzman, a Credit Agricole spokeswoman in New
York, didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed requests for
comment, as did a spokesman for Lloyds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net 
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  