-- Disasters Create Bigger, Not Better, Government
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-11-01T17:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/disasters-create-bigger-not-better-government.html
Whew. That was the general reaction
when President  Barack Obama  told waterlogged New Jersey that “we
are here for you.” After all, these days, a president is
expected to “be here.”  Federal rescue is the American Way. Being there starts
with helping to clear the flooded metropolitan-area tunnels
between New Jersey and  New York . But the concept extends to
bridges, roads and all the other infrastructure challenges up
and down the Atlantic coast after  Hurricane Sandy .  Such rescue seems like a no-brainer during crises.  Yet the misty deification of  Washington  as exclusive
rescuer isn’t necessarily warranted. In fact, the U.S. suffers
from a collective and politically induced amnesia that obscures
the reality: There are many American ways to build
infrastructure and manage it in emergencies. In the past, state
and regional governments often managed disasters. Even
businesses ran big domestic rescues.  A good example of this can be found in the history of one
tunnel flooded this week, the  Holland Tunnel , between New York
and  New Jersey . About 100 years ago, New York longed for
commerce with New Jersey and was desperate for it. In the winter
of 1918, for example, the city was so short of coal that the
press spoke of “coal famine.” An ice jam in the lower  Hudson
River  prevented thousands of tons of coal in New Jersey from
reaching  Manhattan . The coal could be seen from freezing New
York, but, as Governor Al Smith recalled, “we were nevertheless
unable to get it across.”  Local Control  Engineer  Clifford Milburn Holland  conceived a daring plan:
a giant tunnel under the water. A new kind of ventilation would
remove the fatal carbon-monoxide gas from the tube. The
construction itself caused its own share of emergencies.  Yet all these crises were handled, and not
catastrophically, by local authorities. The Holland Vehicular
Tunnel, as it was called, was conceived, as Smith said, as “the
wedding of two commonwealths,” the states of New Jersey and New
York. The two states financed the projects: “New Jersey through
a  bond issue  and New York through current revenues,” Smith
announced proudly. Such states sought the blessing of the
federal government, not its presence.  Nor was the  Holland Tunnel  the exception. Looking over
American history, state or city authority in infrastructure was
often the rule. Except during wars, state governments played a
larger role in the economy than Washington. That relationship
only reversed in the mid-1930s, with President  Franklin Roosevelt ’s New Deal.  The reversal hasn’t always generated the greatest quality
of work, or the greatest efficiencies. Indeed, the angel being
called to drain the tunnels, the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers,
is also  known  for wasting federal taxpayer money on dubious,
pork-barrel projects and creating more problems than it solves.  Why has the federal role expanded?  One reason is another kind of flood:  government spending .
Once it rises, often to address an emergency at home or abroad,
the spending doesn’t recede. High water becomes the new normal,
until the next emergency, when a second rise comes, as an
economist named M. Slade Kendrick noticed as far back as 1955.  In a National Bureau of Economic Research paper titled “A
Century and a Half of Public Expenditures,” Kendrick noted that
from the War of 1812 on, one kind of emergency -- war -- tended
to raise the level of all federal spending, not just for the
duration of the war but also for the period after. That spending
increased for civil projects as well as for military outlays.
The reasons for this are probably as much psychological as
mathematical: When people are in a state of fear, they get in
the habit of looking to big protectors.  Christie’s Bargain  Another scholar,  Robert Higgs , has pointed out that the
larger the government is, the more states kowtow to it. When
federal money is available, whether from the  Federal Emergency
Management Agency  or another source, only a foolish governor
would ignore that cash. That is why New Jersey’s  Chris Christie ,
a Republican, asked for help from the Army Corps of Engineers
this week for beach restoration, and walked arm in arm with
Obama. Natural disasters make even the feistiest Republican say,
we’re all Democrats now. As the pundits are already saying, the
proximity of  Hurricane Sandy  will probably help the party of
larger government, President Obama’s.  It’s important, though, to remember that the only reason
voters or politicians place so much faith in Washington is that
they can scarcely remember a time when the federal government
wasn’t the rescuer. And that doesn’t mean the past never
happened, even in the Holland Tunnel.  (Amity Shlaes, a Bloomberg View columnist, is the director
of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush Institute and the
author of the forthcoming “Coolidge.” The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
 Amity Shlaes  at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  