-- Disney’s Marvel-Like Lucasfilm Deal Sees Many Avengers
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-11-01T20:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/disney-s-marvel-like-lucasfilm-deal-sees-many-avengers.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , which agreed to its
biggest takeover in almost seven years, is betting $4.05 billion
that “ Star Wars ” is more valuable with  Iron Man  and Thor than
it was under  George Lucas ’s control.  The announced price for Lucasfilm Ltd. is larger than every
Disney purchase since Pixar in 2006, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. If the new “Star Wars” trilogy starting in 2015
matches the films released between 1999 and 2005, Disney is
adding the inflation-adjusted equivalent of three “Avengers,”
its 2012 movie that won about $1.5 billion in ticket sales.  Disney can squeeze more value out of the 35-year-old movie
series than any other entertainment company because of its
consumer-products business, which delivered $3 billion of sales
in 2011, and film-inspired amusement park rides, said Wunderlich
Securities Inc. The chance to boost sales outside the U.S. makes
the deal even more attractive for Disney shareholders than
Marvel Entertainment Inc., the 2010 purchase that yielded “The
Avengers,” the  third-highest-grossing  film of all time, Lazard
Capital Markets LLC said.  “It will take some time to see the payoff here, but
Disney’s not managing their stock price for tomorrow or the next
day,”  David Miller , a Los Angeles-based analyst at Caris & Co.,
said in a telephone interview. Though Disney shares retreated
1.9 percent following the deal’s announcement, “what the
Street’s missing here is the supplier power that Disney now has.
It makes sense strategically.”  Disney shares rebounded today, rising 1.3 percent to
$49.78.  “This is a value-creating acquisition,” Jay Rasulo, the
chief financial officer of Burbank, California-based Disney,
said in an Oct. 30 phone interview.  ‘Joining Forces’  “We fully expect that by joining forces with Disney,
Lucasfilm will succeed in ways far beyond anything the company
has ever experienced,” Lynne Hale, a spokeswoman for Lucasfilm,
wrote in an e-mail. “Disney affords us endless new
opportunities.”  Lucas, who is Lucasfilm’s only owner, will get half the
purchase price in cash and the rest in Disney stock, according
to an Oct. 30 statement, which also announced that a new “Star
Wars” trilogy will start coming out in 2015. While Lucasfilm
owns other assets such as the “Indiana Jones” movies, Disney
said it valued the deal almost entirely based on “Star Wars.”  The transaction furthers Disney Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Iger ’s pursuit of marquee content in an era marked by
technology changes, such as $8-a-month video streaming and free
game downloads, that disrupted Hollywood’s traditional revenue
sources. Iger, who paid a combined $11.2 billion for Pixar and
Marvel, said memorable characters will be valuable no matter
what medium they appear in.  Inflation, 3-D  “Technology has proved more friend than foe to great
storytelling,” Iger said in an Oct. 30 phone interview. “It
allows us to distribute in ways we never thought would have been
imaginable.”  If released today, the last three “Star Wars” films would
have each generated $1.5 billion on average when adjusting for
inflation, the expanded movie market outside the U.S. and
increased popularity of 3-D releases, Disney said. Sales of
related merchandise will total about $215 million this year, and
Lucasfilm earned $550 million in operating profit in 2005, when
the last movie, “Revenge of the Sith,” came out, Disney said
in its statement.  Wunderlich’s  Matthew Harrigan  estimates that if Disney
earns $800 million for each new “Star Wars” film and $250
million in the years one isn’t released, Lucasfilm’s value is
$5.2 billion, or more than $1 billion greater than what Disney
is paying. Should the next movie only match Lucasfilm’s profit
in 2005 when “Revenge of the Sith” was released, the business
is worth $3.5 billion, he wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Worth More  “The $5.2 billion number frankly could be low if they can
do the magic,” Denver-based Harrigan said in a phone interview.
“The $4 billion they’re paying is a pretty attractive price and
a lot of the ‘Star Wars’ movies are going to be bigger than a
lot of the Marvel movies.”  Evercore Partners Inc. says Lucasfilm’s peak earnings today
would be $600 million to $700 million, including royalty and
licensing profits. That implies Disney is paying 5.5 to 6 times
earnings, which is a “reasonable multiple,” Evercore analyst
 Alan Gould  said in a note to clients yesterday.  “It’s a pretty full price,” Brett Harriss, an analyst
with Gabelli & Co. in Rye,  New York , said in a phone interview.
“But if they can go out there and put out a successful third
trilogy of ‘Star Wars,’ you could see this deal making sense.”  ‘Finding Nemo’  Disney agreed to buy animation studio Pixar, which created
“Toy Story” and “Finding Nemo,” in January 2006 and Marvel
in August 2009. Lucasfilm is the biggest deal since Pixar, based
on the size of the transactions when they were announced, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Pixar purchase, initially valued
at $5.8 billion, increased to $7 billion by closing, and Marvel
expanded to $4.2 billion from $3.8 billion, the data show. The
figures fluctuated because both deals included stock.  Iger is reinventing Disney’s film business through
acquisitions of popular animated and live-action characters.
“Marvel’s The Avengers,” the first film from that acquisition
to be marketed by Disney, generated $1.51 billion in ticket
sales, trailing only “Titanic” and “Avatar,” according to
Box Office Mojo. The picture, Disney’s biggest ever, led to a 24
percent  jump  in profit in the quarter ended June 30. The
purchase also added characters such as Iron Man and Thor to the
company’s lineup.  Marvel and Pixar reinvigorated Disney’s film business, said
Martin Pyykkonen, an analyst at Wedge Partners Corp.  ‘The Duds’  “Some of the best movies they’ve put out are Pixar and
Marvel, and more of the duds have come from their own home-grown
studio,” he said in a phone interview.  Disney, with its merchandising business, theme parks and
global presence, can revive and grow the “Star Wars” franchise
more easily than Lucasfilm could on its own, said Wunderlich’s
Harrigan.  Disney’s consumer-products division, which includes movie-
branded apparel and toys for kids,  drew  $3.05 billion in revenue
last year, while the company’s parks and resorts accounted for
$11.8 billion, almost a third of total sales, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The top eight amusement parks worldwide by 2011
attendance belonged to Disney, according to an annual  report 
from the Themed Entertainment Association and consulting firm
Aecom.  “There’s no one else who could extract as much value from
‘Star Wars’ as Disney,” Harrigan said in a phone interview.
“On the merchandising side, Disney feels they can do a much
better job than Lucasfilm has done as a standalone.”  Drawing Parallels  While parallels can be drawn between Lucasfilm and Marvel,
the “Star Wars” owner “looks more promising” because of the
opportunity to boost non-U.S. revenue,  Barton Crockett , a New
York-based analyst with Lazard Capital, wrote in a note to
clients yesterday.  Each year, about a quarter of Disney’s  sales  are made
outside the U.S. and  Canada , data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Lucasfilm has sold its products abroad via distribution deals
with third-party agents, which can be cut out under Disney’s
ownership, said Evercore’s Gould, who’s based in New York.  “There will be some cost savings by just taking out the
middle man,” Gould said in a phone interview. “Disney is
already in all those markets and licensing to the same
retailers. It should be very little incremental expense for
Disney to add the ‘Star Wars’ line.”  Retirement Plans  While Lucas will serve as a creative consultant for the new
movies, Iger said in a conference call with analysts that “it’s
his intent to  retire .” Lucas, 68, said it was “time for me to
pass ‘Star Wars’ on to a new generation of filmmakers,”
according to the Oct. 30 statement from Disney.  Kathleen Kennedy, co-chairman of Lucasfilm with its
founder, will become president of the unit. She co-founded
Amblin Entertainment with director  Steven Spielberg  and produced
“E.T.: The Extra-Terrestrial” and “Jurassic Park.”  The prospect that fresh creative talent will reinvigorate
the franchise has fans excited, according to  Paul Dergarabedian ,
president of Hollywood.com Box-Office. While the movies released
in the late ’70s and early ’80s won acclaim, the second trilogy
fared worse. When averaging the scores for each movie, 90
percent of reviewers liked the original trilogy, compared with
68 percent for the second batch of films, according to data
compiled by RottenTomatoes.com.  The next movie, known as “Episode 7,” is scheduled to
come out in 2015, the same year Iger is set to retire as CEO.  “There is a huge amount of hope and excitement surrounding
‘Episode 7,’ that it can kind of go back to what was created
with the first three films,” Dergarabedian said in a phone
interview. “Injecting new blood into the series with Lucas as
the visionary could prove to be very, very fruitful and
satisfying for the franchise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  