-- Dong Cost Cuts Will Help Credit Profile, Moody’s, S&P Say
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-02T12:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/dong-s-cost-cuts-will-help-credit-profile-moody-s-s-p-say.html
Dong Energy A/S, Denmark’s biggest
utility, will improve its credit profile with yesterday’s plans
to cut jobs and sell assets, according to Standard & Poor’s and
Moody’s Investors Service.  “Cutting costs will help cash flow generation and the
disposal of assets will help improve the financial risk
profile,” Alf Stenqvist, an S&P credit analyst, said by phone
from  Stockholm . “The financial risk profile should benefit from
selling assets and reducing debt, which should out-weigh the
loss of cash flow from the disposed assets.”  Dong Energy yesterday said it will cut as many as 600 jobs
as part of a plan to lower annual costs by 1 billion kroner
($175 million) after declines in the natural gas market eroded
earnings. Chief Executive Officer Henrik Poulsen, who took
charge of the Skaerbaek, Denmark-based company in August, will
also sell non-core assets worth about 10 billion kroner over the
next two years to help returns and improve capital.  “It appears the new CEO has identified cost cuts and that
he will really focus on keeping costs down,” Paul Lund, a
London-based Moody’s analyst, said by phone. “Finding
additional cost cuts will help the company offset the problems
faced in the energy markets.”  Net Loss  Dong yesterday reported a third-quarter net loss of 3.16
billion kroner compared with a 760 million-krone profit in the
same period a year earlier, after writing down the value of
German gas storage facility contracts by 2.3 billion kroner. Net
debt was 33.2 billion kroner at the end of September compared
with 27.3 billion kroner a year earlier.  Dong Energy  has a BBB+ rating with a negative outlook at
S&P after the rating company on Oct. 24 downgraded the utility
from A-, citing challenges in the gas and power markets. Dong is
rated Baa1 at Moody’s.  “In our base-case we believe that the company has the
ability and the willingness to improve its financial risk
profile in line with our expectations for the ratings,”
Stenqvist at S&P said yesterday. “The measures the company
announced today are showing evidence of this willingness.”  The yield on Dong’s 6.5 percent note maturing May 2019
declined to 2.13 percent today from 2.17 percent yesterday,
according to composite Bloomberg bond trading bid prices. That
compares with this year’s high of 3.51 percent on Jan. 24.  ‘Weak’ Results  “Dong Energy delivered another weak set of results in the
third quarter,” Jakob Magnussen, a credit analyst at Danske
Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said in a note dated yesterday. “While
acknowledging that the business risk has increased, we maintain
our buy recommendation on the name, as the group offers an
attractive spread pickup to Nordic peers.”  Dong, which also produces oil and gas and develops offshore
wind power parks, sold bonds in September for 750 million euros
($970 million). It was the second time this year that the
company, which is partly owned by the Danish state, tapped the
debt market amid growing demand for Nordic haven assets.  CEO Poulsen declined on a conference call with analysts
yesterday to identify which assets the company plans to sell.
“In some cases we are already in an active divestment
process,” he said.  The plan to sell assets is “credit neutral,” according to
Lund at Moody’s. “It’s already part of our rating that they
sell non-core assets. They have been selling non-core assets in
the past and we expect them to continue to do so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net . 