-- The Patron Saint of Nerdy Jewish Baseball Fans
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-11-01T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/the-patron-saint-of-nerdy-jewish-baseball-fans.html
Baseball, which you may remember
wrapped up its season this week, is the Chosen People’s Chosen
Sport.  The mythology is familiar: Like two other great American
institutions -- unions and public schools -- baseball helped
countless turn-of-the-century Jewish immigrants assimilate into
the New World. “Don’t let your child grow up to be a stranger in
his own country,” the advice columnist for the Jewish Daily
Forward famously wrote in answer to the skeptical immigrant
father of one Jewish boy who wanted to play baseball.  But there has always been another dimension to this
relationship, an equally important explanation for the timeless
Jewish romance with baseball. It is to be found in the perfect
marriage of a sport that lends itself to fetishistic analysis
and a people with a predilection for subjecting everything to
fetishistic analysis.  Which brings me to Daniel Okrent, admired author, esteemed
editor, the first public editor of the  New York  Times -- and
inventor of fantasy baseball.  In 1979, Okrent was just another baseball fan looking for
new ways to indulge his obsession. Why not, he thought, create
an imaginary league in which he and a group of similarly
inclined acquaintances would each serve as owner, general
manager and manager of their own teams, drafting a roster of
players to compete in eight statistical categories over the
course of the upcoming season? He called it “Rotisserie
baseball,” after the restaurant La Rotisserie Française, where
he first proposed the idea to several friends.  Perfectly Conceived  The game of baseball required generations of fine-tuning:
Before 1857, for example, the winning team was not the one that
had scored more runs after nine innings, but the first to score
21 “aces.” Rotisserie baseball, by contrast, was almost
perfectly conceived. The game Okrent conjured is identical to
the one that millions of us play today, in the process
transferring our loyalty from the  Seattle Mariners  or the
 Minnesota Twins  to teams with names like “A Streetcar Named
Cuddyer.” His formula became the blueprint for fantasy
everything -- football, basketball, golf, hockey, soccer,
surfing, even Fantasy Congress (categories include “legislative
success” and “noteworthy news mentions”) and Fantasy Reality TV.  Baseball dorks have never been satisfied with the 162-game
season. But fantasy is no mere dietary supplement in the spirit
of Dice Baseball or Strat-O-Matic (which, as it happens, was
also invented by a nerdy Jew, Hal Richman, the son of a Long
Island insurance salesman). It’s a parallel universe of fandom.  You are no doubt familiar with the Baseball Writers
Association of America, whose members loiter inside locker
rooms, trolling for vapid quotes. Well, there’s also a Fantasy
Sports Writers Association, whose members work from their
basements, generating prodigious amounts of “expert analysis.”  Think of Okrent as a Jewish  Hugh Hefner : Just swap out the
crimson silk pajamas for a red Shetland sweater. He, too,
unlocked the door to a secret world of pleasure for untold
numbers of grown men and pubescent boys -- a place where it’s
possible to feel like you have a personal stake in every game,
every night, and your adolescent passion for baseball never
fades. To extend the metaphor, fantasy sports have more or less
followed the same trajectory as pornography: a guilty pleasure
for a small group of devotees has blossomed into a multibillion-
dollar Internet-based industry.  As Okrent’s lark grew into a cultural phenomenon, something
strange happened. We became a nation of stat-crunching baseball
fans -- a nation of Jewish baseball nerds. Turns out baseball
didn’t have to be a means through which Jews got absorbed into
the American mainstream, a way to avoid becoming strangers in
their own country. They could experience the game on their own,
bookish terms, and even establish its new cultural norms. Okrent
didn’t just fulfill the fantasies of Jewish baseball geeks, he
universalized the Jewish archetype of nerdy fandom.  Ecumenical Forces  In this, he was also helped by more ecumenical forces.
While millions of fans were discovering fantasy, stat guru  Bill James , not just a gentile but a night watchman at a pork and
beans factory, was becoming a cult hero. Hit movies about
endearingly stunted young men by directors such as  Judd Apatow 
and Todd Phillips were making losers kind of cool. It’s no
coincidence that one of the characters in Apatow’s 2007 film
“Knocked Up” plays fantasy, or that Jonah Hill, a Jewish
mainstay of Apatow’s films, played the geeky stat guy in the
film version of “Moneyball.”  How has Okrent, baseball’s founding Jewish nerd, responded
to the revolution he launched? Exactly as you might expect: with
a lot of hand-wringing, a little angst and some genuine self-
loathing.  In the grand tradition of the schlimazel, Okrent has made
not a dime from his invention. During the game’s early days, he
and a few other fantasy pioneers tried to leverage its creeping
popularity by convening an annual convention in New York. They
quickly abandoned the idea. It was just too much to take, being
in a hall full of people so dorky that they not only played
fantasy baseball, but were willing to pay, and in some cases
even fly across the country, to meet the game’s architects.  Okrent has compared himself to J. Robert Oppenheimer, the
scientist who invented the atomic bomb: “I mean, look what I’ve
unleashed on the world.” Indeed. Fantasy sports, as anyone who
has ever played them knows, are an epic time-suck. There is
pleasure, but more often a lonely, pathetic pain in having your
well-being tethered to a handful of guys on an imaginary team.  It’s a distinct form of suffering that Okrent has shared.
More than three decades after presiding over fantasy baseball’s
inaugural draft, he has never won his league.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
The opinions expressed are his own. This column is adapted from
his essay in “ Jewish Jocks: An Unorthodox Hall of Fame ,” edited
by Franklin Foer and Marc Tracy.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: In a signed editorial,  Michael R. Bloomberg
endorses President Barack Obama  for re-election.  Also, the editors on the  Greek debt buyback ;  Stephen Carter  on
the  election night concession speech ;  Ezra Klein  on a  unified
field theory of Romney ; A. Gary Shilling on  five possible global
shocks ;  Amity Shlaes  on how  disasters make government bigger ;
Carl Pope on the Republican defense of an  obsolete economy .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 