-- The Republican Rejection of a Green Future
-- B y   C a r l   P o p e
-- 2012-11-01T22:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/the-republican-rejection-of-a-green-future.html
The election’s polarization around
climate, energy and the environment isn’t about the costs or
relative importance of shifting to renewable power, protecting
public lands or cleaning up air and water. It’s about the
struggle between America’s economic past and its future.  Mitt Romney  and the Republican Party have doubled down on a
fading finance- and commodity-dominated economic order. It is
one where innovation in research and development finds no
domestic markets because incumbent interests hold on to outmoded
capital stocks instead of modernizing them, and where innovative
manufacturing is sacrificed to other sectors of the economy. As
Romney said, inaccurately, in the first debate, lashing out at
President  Barack Obama : “You provided $90 billion in breaks to
the green-energy world. Now, I like green energy as well, but
that’s about 50 years’ worth of what oil and gas receives.”  The Republicans’ strong tilt toward coal and oil isn’t new.
Former President George W. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney
were both oil executives, and Senator John McCain embraced
“drill, baby, drill” as a mantra in his presidential campaign
against Obama in 2008.  But in their positioning and communications, Republicans
such as Bush and McCain kept their distance from the unpopular
oil industry. They claimed to support -- just more reasonably
than the Democrats -- clean-energy innovation.  Tone Changes  McCain voted for, yet expressed queasiness about, oil-
industry tax breaks. The “war on coal,” which Romney accuses
Obama of waging, is Obama’s delivery on Bush’s 2000 campaign
pledge to clean up “grandfathered” coal-fired power plants.  So the tone -- if not the substance -- of the Republican
approach to clean energy and innovation has shifted sharply.
For years, Republicans followed the advice of pollster Frank Luntz, who warned the party that voters wouldn’t tolerate
threats to their health and environmental security.  “You cannot allow yourself to be labeled ‘anti-
environment,’” Luntz wrote in a 2002 memo. “But when we talk
about ‘rolling back regulations’ involving the environment, we
are sending a signal Americans don’t support. If we suggest that
the choice is between environmental protection and deregulation,
the environment will win consistently.” Even when Bush sought
to weaken health regulations -- as he tried with mercury -- he
used Orwellian Luntz-speak like “Clear Skies” to describe his
policies.  Romney as governor of  Massachusetts  famously stood in front
of a coal-fired power plant and declared: “I will not create
jobs that kill people. And that plant kills people.” Like his
former Republican primary rivals, Governor Tim Pawlenty of
 Minnesota  and former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , Romney once
advocated a cap-and-trade emissions policy before the concept
became political botulism within the party.  Today, Romney is well outside what was once his party’s
mainstream on the environment. No Republican presidential
nominee -- certainly not McCain or Bush -- ever openly
disparaged America’s heritage of public lands as Romney has done
when he asks, “What are they for?” and proposes to turn them
over to the states wholesale.  Romney is no ideologue. Is he simply reading the polls?  It wouldn’t appear so. During periods of economic decline,
environmental issues become less important, but there’s no
support in the polls today for the attacks on clean energy that
Romney is supporting. In  Iowa , for example, a state he badly
needs to win, solid majorities oppose his opposition to federal
aid for the wind industry, as do Iowa’s Republican governor,
Terry Branstad, and senior senator, Chuck Grassley.  Voter Approval  Even after hundreds of millions of dollars of advertising
by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Koch brothers and industry,
public support for the Environmental Protection Agency’s clean-
air initiative has  risen , notably among independents in Ohio and
 Michigan  -- important constituencies in auto-industry states .  Where Romney’s current extremism makes sense is as a marker
of a basic economic struggle. Look at the indicators of U.S.
economic sluggishness and think about plausible solutions.  The U.S. has the industrialized world’s oldest, dirtiest
and least-efficient power plants -- shielded from pollution-
control requirements, so power companies don’t have to upgrade.
The U.S. lost its manufacturing dominance in two technologies --
solar and wind -- because outmoded electricity regulation
strangled their market access. The nation produces millions of
flex-fuel vehicles, few of which burn ethanol, because oil
controls the service stations, which won’t pump a competitor’s
fuel. The U.S. rate of broadband access trails  Romania ’s because
government doesn’t mandate universal service. U.S. paper
companies bleed market share to imports manufactured with
illegally logged timber because U.S. trade negotiators put
overseas investors ahead of domestic manufacturing when they
negotiated the World Trade Organization treaty. Oil interests
have access to public capital markets through tax mechanisms
explicitly denied to renewables.  Each of these burdens on U.S. innovation has a solution,
one that requires government to stop cosseting economic
incumbents and give innovators a fair chance. And each solution
violates the new right-wing orthodoxy, which is to defend the
status quo against the future.  An example of this favoritism is in  Delaware . To lure Bloom
Energy Corp., a Silicon Valley manufacturer of advanced fuel
cells, to build a factory, the state broadened its renewable-
fuels standard to include fuel cells, even though in today’s
market they are mostly powered by natural gas, not biofuels.
Such factory-location incentives have been the stock and trade
of former and current Republican governors such as  Haley Barbour 
of  Mississippi  and  Rick Perry  of  Texas .  History’s Losers  Yet conservatives were so offended by the idea that a
Silicon Valley company with a “green” technology would benefit
from such a deal that the legal arm of far-right forces in
Delaware, the  Caesar Rodney Institute , has sued the state over
“unconstitutional corporate cronyism.” (In Delaware! Alexander Hamilton must be chuckling.)  It is easy to understand what motivates the coal and oil
industries and the Koch brothers. The mystery is why Romney and
his party have tied themselves to the wrong side of history. The
last time the U.S. went through this kind of struggle between
the old and new economy -- when the emerging national economy of
railroads, banks and manufacturing challenged the localized
agrarian economy of farmers and small towns in the 1870s and
1880s -- the past lost. Much of big business -- from General
Motors Co. to General Electric Co. -- is solidly on the side of
the future this time.  If this bet against history goes sour for the Republican
Party, it might want to blame the Supreme Court. If anything has
made it possible for the commodity and fossil-fuel industries to
seize control of conservatism, it is the flood of money the
Supreme Court has unleashed into Republican campaign coffers,
notably through  Citizens United  decision, which held that
government could not restrict political spending by corporations
and unions. The Koch brothers have created a virtual parallel
campaign for Romney,  promising  to spend $400 million on his
behalf.  The money from another big contributor,  Sheldon Adelson ,
flows from Chinese casinos, not Canadian tar pits. Adelson also
sees government as a tool to protect his monopoly in  Macau  --
and has attitudes toward government that are fundamentally
different from those of manufacturers, which want the national
economy to grow fast to create markets for their products.  So this year’s environmental debate is not environmental at
its heart. It is economic. And it wasn’t unleashed by
unhappiness about the cost of cleanups, but by a flood of
corporate cash striving to hold on to privilege and monopoly.  (Carl Pope is a former chairman of the Sierra Club. The
opinions expressed are his own. This is the first of two
articles.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: In a signed editorial,  Michael R. Bloomberg
endorses President Barack Obama  for re-election.  Also, the editors on the  Greek debt buyback ; Stephen Carter on
the  election night concession speech ; Ezra Klein on a  unified
field theory of Romney ; Jonathan Mahler on Dan Okrent, the
 founder of Rotisserie baseball ; A. Gary Shilling on  five
possible global shocks ; Amity Shlaes on how  disasters make
government bigger .  To contact the writer on this story:
Carl Pope at  carl.pope@sierraclub.org   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  