-- ECB May Win Powers to Fire Bank Executives Under Oversight Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-01T18:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/ecb-may-win-powers-to-fire-bank-executives-under-oversight-plan.html
The  European Central Bank  may win
powers to fire executives at lenders if they fail to meet
ethical standards as part of plans to make the ECB a bank
supervisor.  Updated proposals drawn up by Cyprus, which holds the
rotating European Union presidency, also call for the ECB’s bank
supervisory board to be run by a “full-time independent
professional” who doesn’t hold a position with a national
regulator, according to a copy of the plans obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  The ECB should be empowered “to remove the members of the
management body of  credit institutions  who do not fulfill the
requirements set out in relevant acts of Union law,” according
to the proposals.  Governments in the 27-nation EU are racing to meet a year-
end deadline for making the ECB the chief supervisor for euro-
area banks, as this would allow lenders to receive direct aid
from the bloc’s bailout fund. Leaders last month renewed their
commitment to give the ECB oversight powers over all banks in
the currency union as well as in other European nations that
choose to participate.  The proposals also seek to ease concerns expressed by non-
euro area nations, including Sweden and  Denmark , that they might
be marginalized if they sign up for ECB supervision, because
they aren’t allowed to have a voice on the central bank’s
Governing Council. EU treaties require the ECB’s Governing
Council to make all final decisions for the central bank.  Three Weeks  Under the revised plans, the governing council would have
three weeks to object to decisions prepared by the supervisory
board, on which participating non-euro area nations would be
represented. Should no objections be raised within that time,
the decision would be adopted automatically.  “The Presidency is working intensely on finding solutions
to some remaining issues,” Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for
 Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said in a
message. It is important that national governments find a
“common understanding soon so that discussions with the
European Parliament can be taken forward.”  No one was immediately available to comment at the ECB.  The plans also call for the ECB to reach memoranda of
understanding with regulators in EU nations that stay outside
the single supervisory system.  The U.K., the EU’s largest financial center, has said that
it won’t sign up to ECB oversight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  