-- Edison Net Income Falls on Lower Power Prices, Higher Costs
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-11-01T23:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/edison-net-income-falls-on-lower-power-prices-higher-costs.html
Edison International (EIX) , the owner of
California’s second-largest electric utility, said third-quarter
profit fell on lower power prices at its generation unit and
higher utility costs.  Net income dropped to $190 million, or 58 cents a share,
from $426 million, or $1.30 a share, a year earlier, the
Rosemead, California-based company said today in a statement.
Sales rose 6.5 percent to $4.1 billion.  Excluding an impairment charge for its Homer City coal-
fired power plant and other items, per-share profit was 72 cents
per share, less than the $1 average of 10 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Edison is working to restructure about $3.7 billion in
unsecured  debt  at its Edison Mission Group generation unit,
which has been hurt by a slump in  power prices  and rising
environmental-compliance costs for its coal-fired power plants.  Edison Mission Energy, owner of Edison Mission Group, may
file for bankruptcy as soon as next month as it may not be able
to make a $97 million bond interest payment on Nov. 15 or during
the 30 day grace period that follows, Edison Chief Executive
Officer Ted Craver said today during a conference call with
investors.  The company remains in talks with advisers of holders of
Edison Mission unsecured bonds, Craver said.  Edison Mission’s quarterly loss was $137 million, compared
with net income of $33 million from the same period a year ago.
Lower power prices, reduced generation output and higher fuel
costs dragged down results for the quarter, Edison said.  Delay Blamed  The company’s Southern  California  Utility is awaiting a
final state regulatory decision on its request to boost rates
this year to pay for increased spending on its power
distribution system.  Utility net income fell 10.6 percent to $363 million,
Edison said.  “Third-quarter results reflect the delay in receiving a
final rate case decision from California regulators, as well as
severance and continued inspection and repair costs related to
the San Onofre nuclear generating station,” Craver said in the
statement.  State regulators are also investigating whether customers
should have to pay for costs related to the shutdown of Edison’s
2,200-megawatt San Onofre nuclear power plant. The plant,
located 60 miles (97 kilometers) south of Los Angeles, has been
closed since January after investigators found unusual wear on
steam generator tubes.  Shutdown Costs  The utility has spent $317 million on the shutdown
including $96 million in inspection and repair costs and $221
million in replacement power costs, Edison said in a slide
presentation to investors.  In September, the utility submitted a $45 million invoice
to  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  for some repair costs under
its warranty with the maker of the steam generators, Edison
Chief Financial Officer Jim Scilacci said during the investor
call. Edison also filed an insurance claim this month under its
policy with Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited, Scilacci said.  Southern California Edison provides power to 4.9 million
homes and businesses, according to the company’s website.  PG&E
Corp. (PCG) , based in San Francisco, owns California’s largest
electric utility.  Edison’s earnings statement was issued after the close of
regular trading in New York. Edison fell less than 1 percent to
$46.71 at the close in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  