-- Hershey Investor Sues for Records on African Child Labor
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d ,   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-11-01T20:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/hershey-investor-sues-for-records-on-african-child-labor.html
Hershey Co. (HSY)  should be forced to
release information about whether the chocolate maker’s cocoa is
supplied by child labor on African plantations, an investor said
in a lawsuit.  The Louisiana Municipal Police Employees’ Retirement System
claims Hershey put its reputation at risk by relying on cocoa
farms in  Ghana  and Ivory Coast. Hershey has acknowledged
“rampant child labor” in both countries, according to the
complaint filed today in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  “There are substantial grounds to believe, therefore, that
Hershey’s chocolate empire is built on a foundation of West
African child labor,” the pension fund said in the complaint.  Activists have long pushed companies to fight child labor
in the cocoa industry. The most common tasks carried out by
children on cocoa farms are filling plastic bags for nurseries,
breaking up pods and transporting plants, according to the  Fair
Labor Association .  Under local law, carrying heavy loads is one of the worst
forms of child labor, and the use of machetes and knives to
break pods is a hazardous task, the FLA said, citing non-
government organizations in  Ivory Coast . About 89 percent of
Ivory Coast children were involved in growing cocoa, according
to a 2008 government survey.  Labor Practices  Hershey “has been supporting cocoa-growing communities for
more than 50 years. We have been involved in on-the-ground
programs, working with public and private partners, to help
eliminate inappropriate labor practices in cocoa communities,”
Leigh Horner, a spokeswoman for Hershey, said in an e-mailed
statement.  She also said Hershey “is engaged with the U.S. Department
of Labor and the  United Nations ’ International Labor
Organization in programs to address these labor issues.”  The 118-year-old maker of Hershey’s Kisses, Reese’s Peanut
Butter Cups, Kit Kat and Almond Joy, is based in Hershey,
 Pennsylvania , and reported fiscal 2011  sales  of $6.08 billion.  Hershey rose 1.3 percent to $69.72 in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have climbed 22 percent
in the past year.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees’
Retirement System v. Hershey Co., CA7996, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  