-- Tesla’s $102,000 Electric Model S Surges Like a Supercar
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-11-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/tesla-s-102-000-electric-model-s-surges-like-a-supercar.html
The  Tesla (TSLA)  Model S is an all-electric
car with incredible range. That may be the least interesting
thing about it.  I stepped into the $92,000, battery-powered sedan with low
expectations. By the time I exited, I was pretty sure I’d just
experienced the future of the automobile.  Tesla and its chief executive officer, Elon Musk, are
constant sources of hyperbole. I just didn’t expect to be
spreading it.  This is the Palo Alto-based company’s second car. It was a
stretch to even call the first model, the $100,000-plus
Roadster, a true production car since it began life as a Lotus
convertible. Tesla turned it into an electric vehicle (EV), but
it looked like a Frankenstein-like kit car, and the build
quality was terrible.  The Roadster had one very neat trick -- it rocketed from
zero to 60 miles per hour in less than four seconds, silently.
The Model S has more tricks than a Criss Angel-David Blaine
double act.  The fundamentals: the base starts at $57,400, with the
price increasing with the size of the lithium-ion battery pack,
which in turn determines range and quickness.  Battery Pack  The Performance model I drove starts at $92,400 and was
$102,270 with add-ons. It has the top-end, 85-kilowatt-hour
battery pack and an EPA estimated range of 265 miles. (Tesla
says 300 miles.)  It can recharge in as little as four hours. The electric
motor makes 416 horsepower and 443 pound-feet of torque. Sixty
miles per hour comes in 4.4 seconds. Those numbers are
compelling.  The  Model S  is a full-size car, and it’s big, seating five
adults comfortably. The exterior is subdued, with little
indication that it’s something special except for the closed
front grill and low hood, which doesn’t need to fit a mechanical
engine. (The electric motor is in the rear.)  It’s hard to know where to begin when describing all of its
tricks.  Approach the locked car and you’ll find that the door
handles are sunk into the metal. Press the center of the car-
shaped key fob and the car handles slide out silkily.  Touch Screen  Slip inside and you’re confronted with a simple steering
wheel, a driver’s digital screen and a shockingly large (17-
inch) touch screen hanging from the center console. The screens
are already on.  Except for controls on the steering wheel and its three
stalks (gear shift, blinker and wipers), there are no other
physically-evident controls. Coupled with chic wood inserts and
fine leather, all perfectly fit together, the interior is a
marriage of shiny tech and elegance.  The entire floor of the car is flat. There’s no center
tunnel obstructing the area between driver and passenger (a gift
of an EV’s unique engineering), and I marveled at the stuff you
could put there. A backpack, a year’s worth of National
Geographics, a sack of basketballs. A hoarder’s dream.  There is no ignition or start button. Put your foot on the
brake pedal and the car silently turns on. Disconcerting, and
Disneyland-cool. An early announcement that this is not business
as usual.  Speed Demon  Then, go ahead. Jam on the pedal. If there’s a carryover
from the Tesla Roadster, it’s speed. The Model S’s electric
motor delivers all of its full torque instantly. The initial
moment of acceleration is as good as any supercar I’ve recently
driven, outside of the $2.5-million Bugatti Veyron Grand Sport.  My test car had optional 21-inch performance tires and the
sound of them skimming on asphalt was the only noise as I
bounded down a two-lane road in Michigan back country, yellow
leaves swirling in a vortex behind me.  Then, an upcoming wicked right-hand turn. I didn’t want to
break my shiny new toy. Would it manage that crook in the road
at this speed?  Easily. The heavy batteries line the bottom of the car,
keeping the center of gravity low. The S ducked into the turn,
exited cleanly and I was back on the accelerator. The steering
is eerily good and the brakes (which recapture energy) are
predicable.  Glass Roof  Which brings me to the rest of the controls, which are
manipulated via the biggest, sharpest touch screen I’ve ever
seen. The top half of the screen manages everything from opening
the optional panoramic glass roof to turning off the car. The
bottom half is dedicated to the Internet -- giving full-color
web pages.  Compared to other touch screens I’ve used recently (and
complained about), this thing is generations better. Like a HD
TV versus a black-and-white TV with bunny ears.  The icons are big, uncluttered and clear, and take just a
brush of the fingers. I easily operated it on the move, only
briefly taking my eyes off the road.  Which brings me to my only caveat. All of the technology is
so new, so bold, that I’ve got to wonder how well it will work
week after week, year after year. What happens if the screen
freezes and it’s raining and you can’t shut the roof?  Tesla is charging customers $600 a year for a mandatory
service plan. And the company potentially still has hard
financial times ahead of it.  Still, something this good, this forward-thinking, will
surely attract buyers who are equally bold. If I had $102,000
for my latest luxury ride, I’d take a chance on it.  The 2013 Tesla Model S Performance at a Glance  Engine: Electric motor with 85-kilowatt-hour lithium-ion  battery pack, with 416 horsepower and 443 pound-feet of  torque.  Transmission: Single gear.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 4.4 seconds.  Range: 265 miles EPA estimate (Tesla says 300).  Price as tested: $102,270.  Best feature: The overall “wow” factor.  Worst feature: Unclear how reliable it will prove over  time.  Target buyer: The risk taker.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Amanda Gordon ’s  Scene Last Night 
and  Greg Evans  on TV.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 