-- Lessons From 9/11 Help Lhota Revive New York’s Transit Hub
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t ,   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-11-01T19:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/lessons-from-9-11-help-lhota-revive-new-york-s-transit-hub.html
“Are we having fun yet?” Joseph Lhota, head of the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , wrote
on Twitter Oct. 28, two hours after New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said the largest U.S. transit system would shutter as
 Hurricane Sandy  approached.  There’s no fun now for Lhota as he tries to breathe life
back into a system washed out by an almost 14-foot (4.3 meter)
tidal surge that crashed into  New York City  when Sandy came
ashore Oct. 29.  Helping the city of 8 million cope with catastrophe has
been the hallmark of Lhota’s career, said Anthony Carbonetti,
chief of staff to former Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani  while Lhota
served as deputy mayor for operations.  “What you’re seeing is something for which Joe has
prepared for his entire career,” Carbonetti said today in a
telephone interview. “He learned the Giuliani mantra of prepare
for the worst and hope for the best, and he guided the city’s
response through blizzards, hurricanes, many disasters, and of
course then came 9/11.”  On Sept. 11, 2001, Lhota was working in his downtown office
when the first of two planes struck the World Trade Center. In
the days that followed, the then-deputy helped coordinate the
city’s response and recovery, setting up an emergency operations
center on a pier where agencies relocated. He also managed
volunteer efforts and interagency communications after the Twin
Towers came down in the worst attack on U.S. territory since
 Pearl Harbor .  ‘Really Important’  “What I learned from 9/11 that is really important, first
and foremost, you have to motivate all the workers and
understand that they’ve left their families to help clean up a
pretty awful situation,” Lhota said in an interview today
outside the Hugh L. Carey Brooklyn Battery Tunnel in downtown
Manhattan. “Every time you have an emergency management
situation, it’s all about teamwork.”  He’s also on the front line now, after the largest storm
ever to form over the Atlantic Ocean struck, killing at least 75
people in the U.S., flooding the New York subway system and
knocking out power to as many as 8.5 million homes and
businesses along the East Coast.  Rising Water  Lhota was on the scene as water rose over barriers in the
highest tide in city history and watched as it poured into
subway entrances, paralyzing  New York . Lhota, 58, has since been
a steady voice at press conferences where he has detailed
efforts to revive the system. The subway reopened its doors at 6
a.m. today with 14 of 23 lines running, and bus service
connecting the dots between.  Not that he’s always calm. The MTA chairman is also known
for a hot temper. At a Sept. 27 meeting he criticized board
member Charles Moerdler during a dispute over the number of
meetings the authority should hold.  “Be a man,” Lhota said twice.  “Oh, I’d be happy to,” Moerdler said. “In your words, I
will bring it on.”  “Let’s go,” Lhota said.  The two didn’t duel, yet it’s that kind of intensity that
helps Lhota get the job done, said Randy Levine, president of
the New York Yankees baseball team and an attorney who was
Giuliani’s deputy mayor for economic development.  ‘Team Player’  “Once he makes his mind up about something, he becomes
singular and focused,” Levine said. “He’s direct, he’s smart,
he doesn’t brook nonsense, and he’s a very good team player.”  He’s also hands on and detailed, traits that were apparent
when he helped the Giuliani administration manage everything
from rats to snowstorms, Carbonetti said. Lhota was known as the
“rat czar” after taking on the housing authority’s battle with
the vermin.  “As the rat czar, he could tell you how fast they
multiply, what their lifespan is, when they become of age to
breed,” Carbonetti said. “Once he gets started he will tell
you everything. It’s a little disgusting.”  During a major snowstorm on New Year’s Eve 2000, Giuliani
sent Lhota to Queens and Carbonetti to  Brooklyn  to provide on-
the-scene updates on plowing efforts, Carbonetti said. Lhota has
been just as hands on as he has gone from flooded tunnel to
flooded tunnel to inspect pumping and circuits.  ‘Checking everything’  “When I see him going every place, I know what he’s
doing,” Carbonetti said. “He’s checking everything himself. He
trusts his own eyes and the people who are always there because
when it goes up three layers, things begin to get rosier.”  Lhota said in emergencies such as 9/11 or the storm
recovery, he makes to-do lists, and everything on those lists
has to get done.  “Every day, you have to inch forward, inch by inch, row by
row, in my case track by track,” Lhota said. “You’ve got to
incrementally move forward as best you can.”  Cuomo has praised Lhota’s post-Sandy efforts.  “The MTA and their team is an example of people who have
been working around the clock to get this city running once
again,” Cuomo said at a press conference in Manhattan
yesterday.  Cuomo appointed Lhota in October 2011, replacing  Jay Walder , who had run the agency since 2009 and left to become the
chief executive officer of  MTR Corp. (66) ,  Hong Kong ’s urban rail
operator.  The MTA operates the city’s subways, buses and commuter
railroads, including Metro-North and the Long Island Railroad,
and carries 8.5 million riders a day.  Service Resumed  Limited, free service on 14 of 23 subway lines resumed
today, along with travel on buses and Metro-North and Long
Island Rail Road commuter trains. Still, subways can’t run
between 34th Street in Manhattan and downtown Brooklyn until
power is restored and tunnels are cleared of water.  John Samuelsen, president of the Transport Workers Union
Local 100, says the credit for getting the system back on its
feet should go to the 38,000 MTA subway and bus workers he
represents.  “Joe Lhota would agree with me that he didn’t put the
system back together,” Samuelsen said. “Lhota could be the
greatest manager in the world, but he’s worthless without this
unionized work force.”  Workers are feverishly draining three underwater tunnels,
inspecting hundreds of miles of railroad track, and getting the
signal system working again, he said. In many cases, workers are
braving flood waters.  For commuters, like Cynthia Lewis of Elmont, New York,
Lhota is the most important person in the city right now.  ‘Get Paid’  “I need to get paid!” said Lewis, who works in the New
York court system, as she rode the F train from 179th Street.  “I think it’s a pretty good deal, that they got it up and
running.”  Lewis, who normally works in Lower  Manhattan  and takes the
E train, was redeployed to the Queens County Courthouse on Union
Turnpike. Her house has been without power since 3 p.m. Oct. 29.  While she was willing to credit the MTA with doing its
best, it’s not enough to take the sting off a planned fare
increase that may bring the base subway fare to $2.50 from $2.25
and make monthly unlimited passes as much as 20 percent more
expensive. Fares are going up, her salary isn’t and service is
still poor, Lewis said.  “There’s always a lot of issues with the MTA,” Lewis
said. “Ask anyone on the street.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net 
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  