-- EU Court’s Quest for Faster Justice May Deny Companies a Hearing
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-11-01T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/eu-court-s-quest-for-faster-justice-may-deny-companies-a-hearing.html
The European Union’s top court will
deny countries and companies such as Google Inc. and  Telefonica
SA (TEF)  the automatic right to oral hearings in a drive to speed up
rulings at the clogged-up tribunal.  The two companies along with  Italy  may be among the first
affected by the overhaul at the EU Court of Justice -- designed
to trim last year’s 15.4 month average delay for decisions. The
changes came into force today.  “If there’s no hearing, it’s a lot faster, that is
clear,” said Verena von Bomhard, a lawyer at Hogan Lovells LLP,
who has represented  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest
brewer, at the EU courts. Going ahead without a hearing may cut
the time from filing a case to a ruling by four to six months,
she said.  Decisions at the Court of Justice can be the final word
across the EU on the legality of gambling monopolies, the scope
of pharmacy ownership laws or cases concerning the euro area’s
permanent bailout fund and the  European Central Bank .
Competition cases remain the dominant subject of appeals.  Telefonica’s appeal against a 152 million-euro ($197
million) antitrust fine could go ahead without an oral hearing
as a result of the changes. Others affected may include  Spain ,
in a local court’s request for guidance in a data protection
dispute concerning  Google (GOOG) , and Italy, which is  clashing  with the
European Commission over state aid. The ongoing trademark
disputes between AB InBev and Budejovicky Budvar NP may also
move faster in the absence of hearings.  Going forward, parties will have to give a reason why
they’d like a hearing and the court can refuse. Decisions by the
court on whether it plans to hold a hearing in a case are not
public. Any pending cases will be affected by the new rules.  Oral Hearing  Cases before the EU court normally consist of a written
part and an oral part. Under the written process, which isn’t
public, parties submit their arguments and the court may ask
further questions. The oral hearing is the final step before the
court’s decision, which normally follows a few months later. In
some cases, an advocate general issues a non-binding opinion
before the court’s decision.  The overhaul “will allow the Court to concentrate its
resources on those hearings which will bring added value to the
handling of a case,” the court said in a statement.  Lawyers say the changes may affect the quality of rulings.  “It’s better to hear the concerns of your judge during a
hearing and have an opportunity to explain things than
discovering in the judgment that there was a misunderstanding,”
said Denis Waelbroeck, a partner specializing in competition and
EU law at Ashurst LLP in Brussels.  Brief Remarks  Attorneys have from 15 minutes to 30 minutes to argue their
main points in a hearing, followed by the possibility of
questions from the bench and an opportunity at the end to make
brief concluding remarks.  “Speaking as a common lawyer, a hearing is the most
crucial part of the process,” said Robert O’Donoghue at London-
based Brick Court Chambers. “Looking at the papers cold only
gets one so far.”  As the EU has expanded, the court’s case load has  steadily
increased , rising to 688 new cases last year from 581 in 2007.
Cartel cases can trigger a long series of court hearings for
separate companies or subsidiaries, each lasting as long as a
day and often leading to repetitions of case details and
arguments.  Outside World  Another casualty of the revamped  rules of procedure  are the
court-written summaries of the parties’ main arguments --
documents that often provide the outside world’s only glimpse
into cases that may set precedents across the 27-nation EU.  Eliminating the hearing report “will have a positive
impact both on the length of proceedings and on the use of the
Court’s resources,” the tribunal said.  In cartel disputes involving as many as 15 companies with
overlapping arguments, it’s useful to look at the reports for
the hearing in the other cases ahead of your own hearing, said
Axel Schulz, a competition lawyer at White & Case LLP in
Brussels.  “It’s a bit of a double-edged sword,” said Schulz.
“Probably the court thought that it takes a lot of resources to
produce these reports and nobody is really looking at them. It
scrapped them, instead of asking how we can improve them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  