-- Ex-NYSE Director Gave Inside Leaks, Man Told Informant
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-11-01T22:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/ex-nyse-director-provided-inside-leaks-u-k-man-told-informant.html
A U.K. man who pleaded guilty to
conspiring in an insider-trading scheme told a government
informant that illegal tips he got could be traced by to an ex-
 New York Stock Exchange (NYX)  director, according to court papers.  Taiyyib Ali Munir pleaded guilty to conspiracy in federal
court in  Brooklyn ,  New York , on Oct. 15. Munir, who lives in
 London  and worked in the financial industry, admitted that he
agreed to obtain and sell confidential earnings reports of
public companies from December 2011 to July 2012.  Munir, 30, told U.S. Magistrate Judge Robert Levy that he
“spoke with a person located in New York who said he could
obtain earnings reports for companies before public release of
that information,” according to a transcript of his plea
hearing. Munir didn’t identify the person at his plea. He is
quoted in court papers as saying one of his sources of inside
information got leaks from a former NYSE director.  The guilty plea came as part of a broader U.S. probe into
an  insider-trading  scheme allegedly stretching from Central Asia
to New York. Prosecutors say Munir funneled tips to the
informant, who in 2010 and 2011 was managing accounts of a
former Central Asian official and who isn’t identified in the
complaint.  The former government official was identified by the Wall
Street Journal as Maksim Bakiyev, son of Kurmanbek Bakiyev, the
ex-president of Kyrgyzstan. The newspaper didn’t identify its
sources in the Oct. 17 story. The elder Bakiyev was ousted in an
April 2010 coup and has taken refuge in Belarus.  Bakiyev Arrested  Maksim Bakiyev was arrested in London on Oct. 12, and the
U.S. is trying to extradite him for conspiracy to commit
 securities fraud  and obstructing justice, the U.S. Embassy in
Kyrgyzstan said Oct. 13 in a  statement . Susanna Wood, an embassy
press officer, declined to provide more details about the
charges referred to in the embassy’s statement.  Beyond Munir, none of the other insider trading suspects
has been identified by the government. Prosecutors in Brooklyn
have said in court that they expect to return an indictment in
six to nine months. They haven’t identified their targets.  Munir, who is free on $1 million bail, was arrested in July
and accused of passing inside tips about Global Industries Ltd.,
 Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  and  InterMune Inc. (ITMN)  Under a plea
agreement, he faces a prison term of as long as six months when
he’s sentenced on Jan. 24, according to the transcript.
Prosecutors say he worked in the “financial industry” without
providing more details.  In its April 2 criminal complaint against Munir,
 prosecutors in Brooklyn  quoted from a conversation that the
government informant helped record with Munir. Munir claimed to
have two sources of information, referred to in the complaint as
co-conspirators “CC-3” and “CC-4.” Neither was identified by
name.  NYSE Source  “Munir indicated that CC-3 and CC-4’s sources of inside
information include an ex-director of the New York Stock
Exchange,” an agent with the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation
said in the complaint, summarizing Munir’s comments from a
recorded conversation.  The agent then quoted Munir’s exact words to the informant
about his sources: “They’re not only getting these earnings
with the paperwork 48 hours in advance, but they’ve also got the
ex-director of the New York Stock Exchange,” Munir told the
informant on Jan. 12, according to the complaint.  The informant, also not named, is identified in court
papers as “the chief executive officer of a financial advisory
and consulting firm based in New York” who surrendered to U.S.
authorities in December. The informant has worked with
prosecutors for months, according to the complaint.  NYSE Directors  NYSE Euronext, which runs the New York Stock Exchange, has
16 directors, according to its Feb. 29 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Richard Adamonis , a
spokesman for NYSE Euronext, declined to comment on the
allegations in the complaint.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for Brooklyn U.S. Attorney
Loretta Lynch; Munir’s lawyer, Pamela Johnston; and a lawyer for
Bakiyev, Michael O’Kane, also declined to comment on the case.  Rebekah Carmichael, a Justice Department spokeswoman in
 Washington , declined to comment on the charges described in the
embassy statement.  “We can’t comment, unfortunately, as there are no publicly
filed charges at this point,” Carmichael said yesterday in an
e-mail.  In Kyrgyzstan, the younger Bakiyev, who served in his
father’s administration as a head of a development agency, is
now accused by government prosecutors of  money laundering  and
looting state assets, according to Edil Baisalov, the deputy
minister for social development who was involved in the 2010
coup. O’Kane declined to comment on the charges.  Payment Demand  In the complaint against Munir, prosecutors quoted him and
the informant discussing a demand from CC-3 and CC-4 for a
$122,000 payment for “past successful trades.” According to
the complaint, the former Central Asian official refused to pay
the debt because an earlier tip was unprofitable and because
U.S. regulators had frozen the proceeds of a profitable trade.  “They want payment,” Munir said in a Jan. 3 conversation
with the informant, according to the complaint. “They’re
expecting 122.”  In a related civil lawsuit, the SEC last year won a court
order freezing $5.3 million stemming from what regulators said
were “highly profitable and suspicious” trades in Global
Industries, an oil-field construction company based in Carlyss,
 Louisiana . The same trades are under scrutiny in Munir’s
criminal case, prosecutors told a judge at an Oct. 12 hearing in
federal court in  Manhattan .  Ergoport Claim  In July, a Moscow-based  investment company  called Ergoport
Experts Ltd. claimed the funds as its own and filed court papers
seeking possession of the $5.3 million.  The trades involved an individual “who previously held a
high-level position in the government of a Central Asian
country, which government was overthrown by a coup d’etat in
2010,” federal prosecutors in Brooklyn said in court papers.  Robert Heim, a lawyer for Ergoport in New York, said last
week that neither President Bakiyev nor his son is a shareholder
in the company.  Managing $40 Million  Ergoport identified itself in court papers as a unit of an
entity called Interhold Ltd. Ergoport, which according to Heim
manages at least $40 million, said it made the trades in Global
Industries, denied acting on inside tips, and sought to recover
the $5.3 million.  On Aug. 15, federal prosecutors asked the judge to halt
proceedings in the SEC suit so as not to interfere with the
criminal probe in which Munir was charged.  “We are investigating a conspiracy in which it appears
that individuals who exercised control over an account in
Ergoport’s name agreed to use inside information in order to
execute stock trades,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Rachel Nash told
U.S. District Judge  Ronnie Abrams  at the Oct. 12 hearing in
Manhattan.  Nash didn’t identify other subjects of the criminal probe.  Two phone calls placed to the press office of current
Kyrgyzstan President Almazbek Atambayev today weren’t answered.
There was no immediate response today to an e-mail sent to the
office.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Munir, 12-cr-00648, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. One or More
Unknown Purchasers of Securities of Global Industries, 11-
cv-06500, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  