-- Ex-Penn State President Charged With Sandusky Cover-Up
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-11-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/ex-penn-state-president-charged-with-sandusky-cover-up.html
Charges against ex- Pennsylvania  State
University President Graham Spanier stem from a cache of
evidence uncovered by prosecutors this year that include e-mails
linking him to a conspiracy to cover up the Jerry Sandusky child
sex-abuse scandal, according to a grand jury report.  Spanier, who was fired by  Penn State  last year after
Sandusky’s arrest, is charged with five counts including
endangering the welfare of a child, state Attorney General Linda
Kelly said yesterday. Additional counts were also brought
against two former university officials who had previously been
charged, she said.  The indictment is “a reminder that the failure of
institutional leadership and accountability went to the highest
levels of the institution,” said  Terry Hartle , senior vice
president at the Washington-based American Council on Education,
which represents 1,800 colleges.  The case against Spanier may have no precedent in higher
education in recent decades in terms of the seriousness of the
charges against a former college president, Hartle said in a
phone interview.  College presidents have lost their jobs after being charged
with drunken driving or amid scandals over spending, admissions
or sports recruiting, Hartle said. In 2007, the president of
Eastern Michigan University was fired amid allegations that he
failed to promptly report the rape and murder of a student on
campus.  ‘Conspiracy of Silence’  “This was a conspiracy of silence by top officials at Penn
State,” Kelly said. “All three men deliberately engaged in a
pattern of behavior that showed absolute disregard” for
Sandusky’s victims, she said.  The existence of a Sandusky file containing detailed
information on crimes involving the former assistant football
coach wasn’t disclosed by Penn State and turned over to
prosecutors until April, Kelly said.  The charges against Spanier, 64, come less than a month
after Sandusky, 68, was sentenced to a minimum of 30 years in
prison for sexually abusing 10 boys over a 15-year period.
Sandusky, who was convicted by a jury in June on 45 criminal
counts, committed some of his crimes in campus buildings or
while he was employed by the school, according to prosecutors
and victims.  Spanier’s attorneys said yesterday that the charges are
politically motivated.  ‘Desperate Act’  The charges are “the latest desperate act by Governor Tom Corbett to cover up and divert attention away from the fact that
he failed to warn the Penn State community about the suspicions
surrounding Jerry Sandusky and instead knowingly allowed a child
predator to roam free in Pennsylvania,” according to a
statement e-mailed by Timothy K. Lewis, an attorney for Spanier.
“There is no factual basis to support these charges.”  Kevin Harley , a spokesman for Corbett, dismissed the
criticism.  “Graham Spanier’s statement is the ranting of a man who
has just been indicted for covering up a convicted pedophile,”
Harley said in an e-mail. “His arrogance reveals a man who has
just found out that he is not above the law after all.”  Spanier is charged with one count of perjury, two counts of
endangering the welfare of children and two counts of criminal
conspiracy, prosecutors said yesterday in a separate statement.
All are third-degree felonies punishable by as many as seven
years in prison and $15,000 fines, they said. Spanier is also
charged with one count of obstructing the administration of law
and one count of failing to report suspected child abuse.  ‘Bad Publicity’  A July report commissioned by the university and prepared
by  Louis Freeh , the former director of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , placed Spanier at the center of a cover-up of
Sandusky’s wrongdoing.  Freeh concluded that Spanier, former head football coach
 Joe Paterno  and two other senior school officials hid critical
facts surrounding Sandusky’s abuse. Spanier and Paterno were
fired in November 2011. Paterno died in January.  Freeh’s seven-month investigation found that Paterno and
Spanier concealed information surrounding Sandusky’s abuse in an
attempt to avoid “bad publicity.”  In August, attorneys for Spanier publicly disputed the
findings, calling the Freeh report a “blundering” indictment
that distorted the facts and saying there was no evidence their
client knew about reports of Sandusky’s sexual abuse of
children.  Timothy Curley, a former Penn State athletic director, and
 Gary Schultz , an ex-vice president in charge of university
police, are slated to go on trial in January on charges they
lied to a grand jury about a 2001 sex-abuse allegation against
Sandusky and failed to report the incident to authorities. Both
have denied the charges.  New Charges  Kelly announced new charges against them yesterday, adding
two counts of endangering the welfare of a child, two counts of
conspiracy and one count of obstruction.  “The prosecution did not provide us any advance notice of
the new charges,” Caroline Roberto, an attorney for Curley,
said in a e-mailed statement. “To be clear, Tim Curley is
innocent of all charges. We are carefully reviewing the
presentment.”  Tom Farrell , a lawyer for Schultz, didn’t respond to an e-
mail seeking comment on the case.  Penn State said in a statement that it wouldn’t comment on
the case out of “respect for the legal process.”  The school said Spanier, who’s a tenured professor, will be
placed on leave immediately. Spanier has been on sabbatical
since he was removed as president on Nov. 9, 2011. Curley, who
is on administrative leave, was recently notified that his
contract won’t be renewed when it expires next year, the
university said in the same statement.  Arraignment Today  The criminal investigation is ongoing, Kelly said. Curley
and Schultz are scheduled to appear for arraignment today in
Harrisburg. Spanier is scheduled to appear on Nov. 7. All three
should face a joint trial, Kelly said.  Schultz kept notes and documents about abuse incidents in
1998 and 2001 involving Sandusky in a file drawer in his campus
office and told staff members they were never to look at the
file, prosecutors said. Schultz moved the file to his home the
day Sandusky was charged, prosecutors said.  The existence of the file was disclosed after Spanier was
terminated and the Penn State board of trustees directed
university personnel to cooperate with the state’s
investigation.  ‘Good Case’  “I think they’ve got a really good case,” Wesley Oliver,
a Duquesne University law professor, said of prosecutors. “The
case has a lot of factual ambiguity that a jury is going to have
to sort out.”  The documents recovered include e-mails detailing Schultz’s
conversations with former Penn State Chief of Police Tom Harmon
in May 1998 after Sandusky was accused of touching an 11-year-
old boy in a school shower. In his notes, Schultz wrote
Sandusky’s behavior was at best inappropriate and at worst
“sexual improprieties,” according to the new grand jury
report. At the conclusion of notes about his conversation with
Harmon, Schultz wrote “is this the opening of Pandora’s box?
other children?”  The filing of criminal charges or legal action against
Sandusky in 1998 would have proven “troublesome and
embarrassing” for the school as Sandusky at the time was at the
pinnacle of his career, according to the report.  1998 E-Mails  The grand jury reviewed communication from May and June of
1998 between several university officials. The e-mails included
one sent June 9, 1998, by Schultz to Curley, Spanier and Harmon,
informing them of the decision to close the investigation.  Prosecutors also uncovered new evidence that Schultz
reached out to attorney Wendell Courtney in February 2001, days
after he was informed that a graduate assistant had witnessed
Sandusky assaulting another boy in a football locker room
shower, according to the grand jury.  Mike McQueary , a former assistant football coach and the
key witness in the case against Curley and Schultz, told Paterno
on Feb. 10, 2001, that he had witnessed Sandusky and what
appeared to be a 10-year-old boy in the locker room shower the
night before. Paterno told Curley on Sunday, Feb. 11. That same
day Schultz called Courtney, a close personal friend,
prosecutors said.  Courtney, an attorney for the law firm McQuaide Blasko who
was then the primary outside counsel for the university, billed
2.9 hours and described it as “conference with G. Schultz re
reporting of suspected child abuse,” according to the grand
jury report.  The Second Mile  Courtney resigned as lawyer for Sandusky’s former charity
The Second Mile on Nov. 7, 2011, two days after Sandusky was
charged in the case. In an interview at the time, Courtney said
he quit as the charity’s lawyer to avoid potential conflicts of
interest because as the university’s attorney he had dealings
with Curley and Schultz.  Courtney, who is now with the firm Smigel, Anderson & Sacks
in Harrisburg, didn’t return a call yesterday seeking comment on
the case.  Spanier is described as a controlling president by senior
staff members and Penn state officials, according to the grand
jury report. He is portrayed in the report as demanding and
deceptive, repeatedly questioning a lawyer for the school on the
status of the criminal investigation and lying to the grand jury
and law enforcement about his knowledge of the 1998 incident,
according to the report. Spanier also told investigators the
2001 incident was described by Schultz and Curley as a staff
member’s observation of Sandusky “horse playing around” with a
child.  Spanier, Board  Spanier never informed Penn State’s board of trustees about
the incidents in 1998 and 2001 and also failed to tell anyone on
the board about the grand jury investigation and subpoenas or
the grand jury testimonies of Schultz, Curley and Paterno until
April 2011.  In May 2011, Spanier allegedly told the board that the
criminal probe had nothing to do with Penn State and that the
investigation was centered on a child in Clinton County,
Pennsylvania, with no ties to the school, according to the
report. He made no further mention of the issue until Sandusky’s
arrest in November.  The grand jury report blames the pace of the investigation
on Spanier’s attempts to thwart the efforts of prosecutors to
get information. A grand jury subpoena issued in December 2010
for information concerning Sandusky and inappropriate contact
with minor boys went unfulfilled until April.  Letters, Photographs  It wasn’t until Spanier was terminated that the university
began to comply with the grand jury subpoenas, according to the
grand jury report. Large amounts of evidence were provided to
investigators in the first four months of this year. Searches
conducted for the first time of the athletic facilities where
Sandusky had offices revealed about 22 boxes of Sandusky
documents including letters he sent to some victims, photographs
of some of the boys and lists of children who attended Second
Mile camps.  “In addition, significant e-mails were discovered
reflecting direct evidence of involvement by  Graham Spanier ,
Gary Schultz and Tim Curley in the failure of Penn State” to
report the crimes, according to the grand jury report.  The case against Spanier is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v.
Graham B. Spanier, MJ-12303-CR-0000419-2012, Magisterial
District Judge 12-3-03, Dauphin County (Harrisburg). The case
against Curley and Schultz is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v.
Schultz, CP-22-CR-5164-2011, Court of Common Pleas of Dauphin
County, Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  