-- Exxon Beats Estimates as U.S. Oil Refineries Flourish
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-11-01T20:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/exxon-profit-declines-as-slowing-demand-growth-cuts-price.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s
largest energy company by market value, posted net income that
exceeded the highest estimate from analysts as its U.S.
refineries diminished the impact of lower oil output and prices.  Third-quarter profit was $9.57 billion, or $2.09 a share,
down 7.1 percent from $10.3 billion, or $2.13, a year earlier,
Irving, Texas-based Exxon said in a statement today. The per-
share result topped the high estimate of $2.07 and was 13 cents
more than the $1.96  average  of 19 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Exxon’s profit from refining oil at U.S. plants soared 78
percent to $1.4 billion, even as the benchmark margin based on
 New York  futures contracts dropped 5.2 percent. Oil and natural
gas production from Exxon’s wells fell to the lowest in three
years as output slipped everywhere the company operates except
for Africa and Australia, slashing so-called upstream profit by
29 percent to $5.97 billion.  “Their upstream performance was light relative to
expectations but that was offset somewhat by strength in their
U.S. refining operations,”  Jason Gammel , an analyst at
Macquarie Capital Europe Ltd. in  London , said in a telephone
interview today.  Production Decline  Exxon probably will be forced to lower its full-year 2012
production target after output for the first nine months lagged
the year-earlier volumes by 6.2 percent, Brian Youngberg, an
analyst at Edwards Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said in an
interview today. The company said in March that full-year
production would be 3 percent lower than in 2011, or equivalent
to 4.37 million barrels a day.  Exxon rose 0.5 percent to $91.60 at the close in New York.
Exxon has risen 8.1 percent this year. The shares have 13 buy
 recommendations  from analysts, 15 holds and zero sell ratings.  Sales fell 7.7 percent to $115.7 billion, a smaller decline
than expected according to the average of three analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Exxon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson 
budgeted about $100 million a day this year to find oilfields,
build gas-export terminals and upgrade refineries and chemical
plants. The company agreed to almost $5 billion in acquisitions
in the past six weeks to reverse the longest stretch of
quarterly  production  declines in 13 years.  Exxon’s production of oil and gas liquids such as butane
declined by 5.9 percent to 2.1 million barrels a day, led by
falling output from European wells, according to the statement.
More than 80 percent of Exxon’s oil and gas-liquids production
comes from outside the U.S.  Brent Down  Brent oil futures, the benchmark for two-thirds of the
world’s crude, fell 2.4 percent during the quarter to an average
of $109.42 a barrel as global demand failed to keep pace with
growing supply.  As the biggest U.S. gas producer, Exxon also was stung by a
29 percent plunge in gas prices to an average of $2.893 per
million British thermal units during the quarter. Tillerson said
in June that gas producers have been “losing our shirts” as
drilling innovations allowed explorers to penetrate North
American shale formations, leading to a supply glut.  Exxon’s gas production declined by 9.3 percent during the
quarter to 11 billion cubic feet a day, according to the
statement.  World Supplies  Even as Exxon output was falling, total worldwide crude
output increased by 2.16 million barrels a day during the third
quarter from a year earlier, overwhelming demand that grew by
just 540,000 barrels, according to an Oct. 12 report by the
 International Energy Agency . Rising oil usage in major economies
such as China, Japan, India and  Russia  was insufficient to
offset falling demand in the U.S., the world’s largest crude
market.  Exxon agreed on Sept. 20 to pay about $2 billion in cash
and assets for  Denbury Resources Inc. (DNR) ’s drilling rights to
196,000 net acres in the Bakken Shale formation beneath  North
Dakota  and  Montana . The transaction will boost Exxon’s holdings
in the region by about 50 percent, the company said at the time.  Last month, Exxon added more shale acreage to its portfolio
with a C$2.86 billion ($2.86 billion) agreement to purchase
 Celtic Exploration Ltd. (CLT)  The acquisition, Exxon’s largest since
the $35 billion takeover of XTO Energy in June 2010, will
provide access to the Montney and Duvernay formations in western
 Canada .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  