-- MF Global Inc. Loses U.K. Claim Over European Debt Trades
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-11-01T16:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/mf-global-inc-loses-u-k-claim-over-european-debt-trades.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s U.K.
administrators won the first round of a dispute with its  New
York  brokerage arm over the value of internal trades used by the
company to bet on distressed European sovereign debt.  James Giddens, the U.S. bankruptcy trustee for MF Global
Inc., claimed the London-based subsidiary owes about 287 million
pounds ($463.6 million) to settle internal  repurchase agreements 
on Irish, Portuguese and Spanish bonds. KPMG LLP, which is
winding up the U.K. unit, said it only owes about $60 million.  Judge David Richards ruled in a written decision handed
down in today that the U.K. unit wasn’t in default and KPMG, its
administrator, has the right to value the securities.  MF Global Holdings filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy
on Oct. 31 after getting margin calls and bank demands for money
at its brokerage following its investment in the debt of
troubled European economies. Legal disputes between the U.K. and
U.S. units have tied up assets worth more than $1 billion and
hindered repayment of the brokerage’s clients and creditors.  Today’s decision will likely reduce the value of Giddens’
claims to recover money from the U.K. unit for the trades, James Acheson-Gray, the trustee’s spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. The trustee is considering an appeal, he said.  KPMG still needs to negotiate the close-out value of the
RTM portfolio with MF Global Inc. before the matter can be
resolved, KPMG partner Richard Heis said in an e-mailed
statement today.  MF Global’s investment in European debt, which the judge
pegged at about $7 billion in October 2011, incurred significant
losses, KPMG administrator Mike Pink said at a creditors meeting
in  London  last night.  The repo dispute with Giddens is about “where that loss is
borne,” Pink told creditors. “Our view is very clearly it’s
Inc.’s problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  