-- Fischer Prefers Capital Flows to No U.S. Growth
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-11-01T23:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/fischer-prefers-capital-flows-to-no-u-s-growth.html
Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said he would prefer to deal with capital flows driven
by efforts to boost U.S. output rather than face the
consequences of stagnation in the world’s largest economy.  “I’d much rather the United States grew, and we had to
figure out what to do about these capital flows, than we had an
easy time dealing with capital flows while the United States
didn’t grow,” said Fischer in remarks today at the  Peterson
Institute for International Economics  in Washington.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine
Lagarde  said in Tokyo on Oct. 14 that “accommodative monetary
policies in many advanced economies are likely to spur large and
volatile capital flows to emerging economies.” Brazilian
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has called the monetary policies
of some developed nations “selfish” and said he would do
whatever is necessary to stop them from hurting his nation’s
economy.  “I don’t think they’re currency wars but in Brazilian
terms what’s going on is described as currency wars,” Fischer
said. “I think it’s the natural efforts of countries to make
their economies grow, like the United States.”  The Federal Reserve under Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has
engaged in three rounds of outright bond purchases known as
quantitative easing to stimulate the  U.S. economy .  Bernanke has rejected arguments that monetary policy in the
U.S. is destabilizing emerging markets and said there is a lack
of evidence that advanced economy monetary policies are the main
reason behind emerging-market capital flows.  Fischer has previously said he supports the third round of
quantitative easing in the U.S.  Fischer was in Washington to honor the retirement of  John
Williamson , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute, who
established a set of 10 free-market policies labeled as the
“Washington Consensus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  