-- Flamand’s Edoma Partners to Close After Investment Losses
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-11-01T18:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/flamand-s-edoma-partners-will-close-after-investment-losses.html
Edoma Partners LLP , the hedge fund
started by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. proprietary trader
Pierre-Henri Flamand, plans to close after it lost money and
assets shrank.  “This is very disappointing for everyone concerned,”
Flamand, 42, said in an e-mailed statement today. “Considering
the unprecedented market conditions, we felt the most
responsible course of action was to return money to investors
and cease investment activity.”  Flamand started Edoma in 2010 after stepping down as head
of Goldman Sachs’s biggest proprietary-trading unit amid a
government backlash against banks betting on markets.
Expectations that Flamand would continue his success as a hedge-
fund manager helped him to raise more than $2 billion from
investors.  Through September of this year, the fund had declined 6.9
percent since it started trading in November 2010, prompting
some investors to pull money. At least two partners left last
month as the firm sought to cut costs amid investor redemptions.  Edoma manages about $850 million today, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because the firm is private. The process of returning
money to clients and closing down the hedge fund will take three
to four months, the person said.  Event-Driven  Flamand’s fund focuses on so-called event-driven investing
in which traders try to predict triggers for stocks and bonds
such as corporate restructurings, mergers, management changes
and share sales.  Event-driven funds climbed 4.6 percent on average since
Edoma started trading two years ago as concern over Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis led to periods of high correlation between
asset prices, making it difficult to predict price moves for
individual companies, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund
Research Inc.  Partners who left Edoma last month include Oliver Haslam
and Casper Lund. Haslam previously worked at  Ken Griffin ’s
Citadel LLC and Paul Singer’s Elliot Management Corp., while
Lund was previously employed by Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley.  Flamand, who led Goldman Sachs’s principal strategies
group, was among the first proprietary traders to start his own
firm as Congress sought to rein in risk-taking by lenders
following a $700 billion taxpayer rescue of financial companies.
Former employees of the principal strategies unit who joined him
at Edoma include Ali Hedayat, Emmanuel Niogret and Evan Pearce.  Barack Obama  President  Barack Obama  signed legislation in July 2010 that
included a provision called the Volcker rule, named for its
advocate, former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker . The
measure restricts banks with customer deposits backed by the
U.S. government from using their own money to make speculative
bets on markets.  Goldman Sachs decided within weeks of the Volcker rule’s
approval to shut down the principal strategies group. Other
traders who worked on the desk and have since left to form hedge
funds include Morgan Sze, who briefly replaced Flamand as global
head, and Daniele Benatoff and Ariel Roskis, who started trading
at London-based Benros Capital Partners LLP in June 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  