-- For Exotic Mahogany, a History of Violence and Deception: Echoes
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   L .   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-11-01T16:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/for-exotic-mahogany-a-history-of-violence-and-deception-echoes.html
In 1780,  Benjamin Franklin 
commissioned a large mahogany box from a  London  craftsman. His
instructions for this custom-made item, intended to house a
delicate scientific instrument, were unusually precise. In
particular, he urged that special care be taken in selecting the
mahogany because, in his words, there was “a great deal of
difference in woods that go under that name.” He desired the
“finest grained that you can meet with.”  Franklin’s suspicions about what passed for mahogany
suggest his awareness of a growing problem at the time: The
precious trees were being rapidly depleted. Consequently, the
size and quality of available mahogany was becoming increasingly
erratic.  This unwelcome environmental reality was a relatively new
development. In the early 18th century, when the wood became
popular as an exotic luxury commodity, American merchants and
ship captains began importing whole cargos of large, excellent
mahogany. By the mid-18th century, mahogany had become all the
rage for fine furniture in  England  and colonial North America.
Since New World mahoganies grew mostly in regions controlled by
 Spain , however, Britain and its colonies had access only to
limited supplies in the West Indies (especially in Jamaica and
the Bahamas) and in Belize, where British woodcutters were
permitted under a treaty with Spain.  By the last quarter of the 18th century, however, most of
these areas’ best trees had been depleted, creating problems of
sourcing and quality control that plagued consumers like
Franklin.  Risky Business  But consumer demand for the wood only intensified, spawning
a fierce search for new supplies throughout the Caribbean.
Private merchants, itinerant woodcutters and large commercial-
logging companies all tried to buy up remaining stretches of
untapped forest. Meanwhile, imperial nations jockeyed for
maritime supremacy and control over this precious, but limited,
natural resource.  As a consequence, the colonial mahogany trade became a
risky, highly competitive business characterized by intense
disputes over forested land and the slave labor used in logging.
As international tensions rose, access to tropical timber
supplies became a matter of vital strategic concern among
warring nations, and even entered into the peace negotiations
after the Seven Years’ War and the American Revolution.  In the wholesale timber markets of  Europe  and  North
America , the far-off contests over mahogany supplies created a
minefield for unwary timber buyers and cabinetmakers. West
Indian merchants, planters and woodcutters resorted to deceptive
practices, such as passing off inferior species of trees as
mahogany or engaging in contraband trade with Spanish areas that
were off-limits to English woodcutters.  To ensure more knowledgeable and trustworthy timber agents,
some cabinetmakers sent family members or former journeymen to
serve as their liaisons in the West Indies. In 1760, the Gillows
Company, a leading British cabinetmaker, reminded their buying
agent that “as there is a good deal of Deception in this
article, we need not advise you to procure some good Judge to
make choice of Right  Jamaica  Wood, & see that proper allowance
in Measure is made for defficiency.” In many North American
seaports, official mahogany surveyors were appointed to measure
and grade incoming timber shipments.  Expensive Acquisitions  Franklin was unusual in his awareness of the hazards of
buying mahogany. As a man of science, he had studied the
physical properties of the wood quite apart from its superficial
beauty. He knew how to evaluate the strength, density, grain,
texture and color of each piece. Compared with most furniture
buyers, he also had considerable experience with mahogany in his
daily life. During an extended stay in England in the 1760s, for
example, he patronized some of London’s foremost cabinetmakers
to order items for his Philadelphia townhouse.  Although no longer exclusive to the wealthy elite in the
late 18th century, the acquisition of a piece of mahogany
furniture would still have been a significant investment for
most people -- whether a dining table, a desk, a set of chairs
or even just a little tea caddy. For consumers without
Franklin’s discerning eye, however, buying mahogany furniture
was still fraught with uncertainty. They had little choice but
to rely on the probity of their cabinetmaker.  Today, New World mahoganies -- still considered among the
world’s finest cabinetmaking woods -- are endangered, and their
harvesting is strictly regulated. Colonial objects made from the
wood are now highly valued antiques. Appreciating the strife and
tumult that surrounded the extraction of mahogany in the late
18th century may enrich our understanding of the human and
environmental toll this luxurious wood has long taken.  (Jennifer L. Anderson is a professor of history at Stony
Brook University. She is the author of “Mahogany: The Costs of
Luxury in Early America.” The opinions expressed are her own.)
Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this blog post: Jennifer L. Anderson at
 jlaanderson@notes.cc.sunysb.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this blog post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 