-- Ford Promotes Fields to COO As Mulally Stays Indefinitely
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-11-01T22:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/ford-promotes-fields-to-coo-in-preparation-for-post-mulally-era.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s board sent mixed
signals about succession at the top of the No. 2 U.S. automaker.  Ford promoted Americas leader  Mark Fields , 51, to chief
operating officer in an Oct. 19 board vote, which makes him the
clear front-runner to replace Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally . At the same time, Ford gave Mulally, 67, an open-ended
extension, saying he will be on the job at least through 2014
and maybe longer.  By staying at least 26 more months, Mulally reassures some
investors who had been concerned about losing the man credited
with saving the U.S. automaker without a federal bailout or
bankruptcy. His lingering presence, however, could raise
questions about who’s in charge and leave Fields exposed to
offers to become a CEO elsewhere, said  Paul Hodgson , chief
research analyst at GMI Ratings, which advises investors on
corporate governance.  “This is an awful long time for Mulally to pass the flame
to Fields,” said Hodgson, who is based in Portland, Maine. “It
increases the risk that someone like GM, looking for a new CEO,
might try to steal him away if he gets tired of waiting.”  Executive Chairman Bill Ford, 55, said in a conference call
yesterday that the board has made no decision on who the next
CEO will be and warned against reading too much into Fields’s
promotion and Mulally’s extended stay.  “I’d be surprised if we didn’t have the next CEO come from
inside” the company, Ford said. “One of my responsibilities is
to always look at talent not only internally, but externally and
we’ll continue to do that.”  Probable Successor  None of that is likely to keep Fields from ascending to the
top job at Ford when Mulally eventually departs, said  Jeffrey Sonnenfeld , senior associate dean at the  Yale School of
Management , who studies CEO leadership.  “This is a graceful handing off of the baton,” Sonnenfeld
said yesterday. “For contrast, you only have to look at the
turnstile leadership over at GM and how confusing that is,” he
said, referring to the four CEOs General Motors Co. had from
2009 to 2010.  Key to the transition is Fields taking over the Thursday
morning business-review meeting Mulally instituted when he
arrived from  Boeing Co. (BA)  in 2006. The CEO created the meeting to
instill accountability and encourage candid dialogue among
executives who had previously been known to undermine each other
in pursuit of individual glory and enrichment.  “I’ve seen the before and the after,”  Bill Ford  said.
“The culture that exists at Ford here today is so different and
so much healthier. People just enjoy it and nobody wants to go
back to the days of empire building and backbiting.”  Buck Stops  Asked if the buck will truly stop with Fields at the
Thursday meeting, Mulally said: “It will be really clear to
everybody when Mark is running the business-plan review. And
I’ll be there, I’m not going anywhere. I’ll be there with him
and supporting him.”  Mulally’s presence at the meeting he created and that
became his signature management tool could cramp Fields’s style,
Hodgson said.  “It could create issues of authority,” Hodgson said.
“The question may be, ‘Who is really making the decisions? Who
do we go to?’”  It also will test Fields’s ability to step up and Mulally’s
ability to step back, said Adam Jonas, an analyst for Morgan
Stanley who recommends buying Ford shares.  “It will test the kind of teamwork and chemistry they
have,” Jonas said yesterday in an interview. “And it will test
whether Fields might feel like, ‘Hurry up already. I’m ready.’”  Ford’s board, though, must believe the company can continue
to benefit from Mulally’s guidance as it navigates the crisis in
Europe and seek to make inroads in  Asia , said Richard Spitzer,
managing partner for the automotive practice at Heidrick &
Struggles.  “If his board and his team thinks it’s the right decision
for him to stay on through 2014, it probably is,” Spitzer said,
“even though it might seem a little elongated.”  Other Promotions  Field’s elevation set off a cascade of promotions. His
replacement as head of North and South American operations is
Joe Hinrichs, who has been running Asian operations. Stephen Odell, head of Ford of Europe, adds responsibility for Africa.
 Jim Farley , global marketing chief, was also named the senior
global leader for the Lincoln luxury brand. David Schoch becomes
group vice president for Asia Pacific, while John Lawler becomes
CEO of Ford Motor China.  Jonas said Mulally’s extended stay puts some of those
executives, especially Hinrichs, in competition with Fields for
the CEO job.  “If you asked most people yesterday, who is the successor,
it would have been clearly Fields and a decision would be made
soon,” Jonas said. “Now it could be one of a number of
internal candidates and possibly external candidates and that
Ford is not near a decision yet.”  Staying Longer  Mulally is staying longer to have more time to translate
his vision to the next generation as well as repair Ford’s
money-losing business in Europe and quality problems in  North
America  with touch-screen dashboard controls, Jonas said.  “The stock is also not a whole lot higher than when he
joined,” Jonas said. “I think he genuinely feels like 24
months from now Ford will be a lot higher share price and it’s a
lot better to hand it over then.”  Ford rose 0.8 percent to close at $11.25 yesterday. The
shares have risen 34 percent through yesterday from $8.39 on
Sept. 5, 2006, the day Ford named Mulally the new CEO.  Since then, Fields led a transformation of Ford’s North
American operations from record losses four years ago to record
profits this year. The company earned $6.47 billion in North
America in 2012’s first nine months and had an operating profit
margin of 11.2 percent in an industry where a 5 percent margin
is considered respectable.  “Mark Fields has proved his worth and proved that he has
substance,”  Rebecca Lindland , a Boston-based analyst for
consultant IHS Automotive, said in September. “This is somebody
who has been in the trenches, who was there before Mulally and
will be there after. He can bridge the two worlds and continue
the cultural change.”  Attracting Attention  Fields’s success has attracted the attention of other
companies and he has been the target of headhunters offering him
top jobs elsewhere, said Sonnenfeld, who advises top corporate
executives.  “He’s had those opportunities in the past and has
declined,” Sonnenfeld said. “He really feels a tremendous
loyalty. Mark is pretty pleased with his partnership with Alan
and Bill. And the Ford legacy really means something to him.”  Fields was not available for an interview, said Jay Cooney,
a Ford spokesman.  Mulally will continue to have the chief financial officer,
the head of human resources and the general counsel reporting to
him. Reporting to Fields will be all automotive business units,
including the head of Ford’s operations in the Americas, Asia
and Europe.  Asked if he worries about becoming a lame duck, Mulally
responded: “I sure don’t,” and added, “I’ve not had a COO
before and I am really looking forward to nurturing and
supporting Mark and supporting this team, but also
contributing.”  ‘Firm Handshake’  Mulally said he doesn’t have a contract that specifies when
he may leave.  “My contract is a very firm handshake with the chairman
and always has been,” Mulally said.  Bill Ford, who preceded Mulally as CEO, promoted Fields in
2005 to head of the Americas, Ford’s largest business unit.
Initially, the youthful looking Fields was chided in the press
as a Jersey boy with a mullet haircut.  “I put Mark into that job seven years ago and the growth
that we’ve all seen in him over that period has been
remarkable,” Bill Ford said. “Alan has done a tremendous job
of mentoring Mark. You’ve just seen the third-quarter results in
North America, and they’re truly outstanding.”  Early Praise  Fields won early praise from Mulally in 2006 for going
against Ford’s culture of hiding bad news by becoming the first
executive to admit a problem to the new boss. In the Thursday
meeting, top executives are required to report on their
initiatives using a green, yellow or red code to indicate
progress, caution or a problem.  Fields was the first to put up a red light because a balky
tailgate latch had halted production of the Edge sport-utility
vehicle in late 2006. Mulally, frustrated no one was reporting
problems even though Ford was losing $17 billion in its
automotive operations that year, began applauding. “Great
visibility, Mark,” Mulally recalled saying in a 2010 interview.
“Is there anything we can do to help you?”  Under Mulally, “Fields has grown into a CEO-ready
executive,”  Peter Nesvold , an analyst for Jefferies & Co. who
rates Ford a buy, wrote in a note to investors yesterday.  Thursday Meeting  “Fields will assume responsibility for running Mulally’s
signature Thursday morning business plan review -- a move that
is not only symbolic, but also functional in that it helps
ensure that the business process improvements that Mulally has
made are truly institutionalized,” Nesvold wrote.  Ford’s operating profit in South America fell 91 percent in
the year’s first nine months to $68 million, as heavy price
discounting, weakening currencies and changes in government
policies ate into earnings. Ford is losing money in Asia, where
it’s spending $4.9 billion to expand in China. The automaker
projects more than $1.5 billion in European losses this year and
again next year.  Those challenges now fall to Fields as he becomes Mulally’s
second-in-command and COO.  “Mark has got to help him figure out Europe, South America
and Asia,” Lindland said of Mulally. “They still have an awful
lot of work to do. They’re not out of the woods yet.”  Open Culture  Fields also will be tasked with continuing the new culture
of openness Mulally created at the company. Ford has cited its
desire to identify problems early as a reason for the three
quick recalls of its redesigned Escape sport-utility vehicle
since it debuted in May, including one in which owners were
instructed not to drive affected vehicles to the dealership
because of the risk of an engine fire.  “It’s all about how do we keep our positive relationships
with our customers and our dealers and let them know real-time
what the state of the situation is,” Fields said in a 2010
interview. “I always find it annoying when I’m on a plane
that’s delayed and I never hear from the pilot. I can stomach
the delay a lot more when the pilot is giving us frequent
updates.”  Before he began overseeing the Americas in 2005, Fields
gathered extensive experience overseas. He was executive vice
president of Ford of Europe and also ran the automaker’s
European luxury brands, Jaguar,  Land Rover ,  Aston Martin  and
Volvo, which Mulally later sold.  From 2000 to 2002, Fields was CEO of  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , in
which Ford had a controlling stake at the time. He led a
turnaround at Mazda with several Ford executives with whom he
later worked closely to revive Ford’s North American business.
Ford lost $30.1 billion from 2006 through 2008 and earned $29.5
billion in the last three years, mostly in Fields’s North
American operations.  Truck Margins  Ford’s profit margins in North America this week drew the
praise of  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of  Fiat SpA (F) 
and Chrysler Group LLC.  “Everybody in this business has dreams at night,”
Marchionne said on Fiat’s quarterly earnings conference call on
Oct. 30. “I dream of selling as many  pickup trucks  as Ford, and
then I think we can get to double-digit at the same level of
speed with which Ford got to. I like the pickup truck business a
lot. I drool over it, actually.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  