-- FTC Staff Said to Formally Recommend Google Patent Suit
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-11-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/ftc-staff-said-to-formally-recommend-google-patent-suit.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
should sue  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for trying to block competitors’ access
to key smartphone-technology patents in violation of antitrust
law, the agency’s staff told commissioners in a formal
recommendation, according to four people familiar with the
matter.  A majority of the agency’s five commissioners are inclined
to sue, according to the people, who declined to be identified
because the matter isn’t public. A final decision on the staff
recommendation, made last month, isn’t likely until after the
Nov. 6 presidential election, they said.  At issue are Google’s efforts to block U.S. imports of
products made by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  by claiming the
devices, which rely on industry-standard technology, infringe
patents owned by Google’s Motorola Mobility unit, the people
said.  “We take our commitments to license on fair, reasonable,
and non-discriminatory terms very seriously and are happy to
answer any questions,” Niki Fenwick, a Google spokeswoman,
said. Peter Kaplan, a spokesman for the FTC, declined to
comment.  Formal Probe  The FTC opened a formal probe into the matter in June, when
it began seeking information from companies including Microsoft
and Apple about whether Google offered licensing for technology
under patents that help operate 3G wireless, Wi-Fi and video
streaming on fair and reasonable terms, a person familiar with
the matter said at the time.  Industry-standard technology helps ensure that different
manufacturers’ products, such as mobile phone antennas and
global-positioning system software, work together. Companies
that create technology that helps develop the agreed-upon
industry standard pledge to license patents for those inventions
on reasonable terms.  The FTC is also focusing on Google’s decision to continue
litigation started by Motorola Mobility over industry-standard
patents before Google bought the company. Those lawsuits could
end up blocking imports of popular consumer products such as
Microsoft’s Xbox and Apple’s iPhone and iPad.  “There is a tough emerging attitude by antitrust
regulators who’ve recognized that the failure to honor standard
essential patent commitments needs to be treated much more
severely than in the past,” said Bert Foer, president of the
American Antitrust Institute in  Washington , which advocates
strong enforcement of antitrust law.  “The agencies want to move this issue to the forefront by
speaking out and tackling these high profile cases.”  Samsung Electronics  U.S. antitrust regulators have agreed the FTC will focus on
Motorola Mobility while the Justice Department will scrutinize
Samsung Electronics Co.’s handling of industry-standard patent
claims, said a person familiar with the matter June 30. The
European Commission opened formal probes of Motorola Mobility
and Samsung Electronics Co. for the same issues earlier this
year.  The investigation into Google’s use of standard-essential
patents is separate from the agency’s broader probe examining
whether Google’s business practices in search, advertising and
mobile hurt competition, the people said. FTC investigators are
also recommending the commission sue Google in that case, three
people familiar with the matter said Oct. 13. A final decision
hasn’t been made.  Smartphone Market  Patent litigation is escalating as device makers vie for
increasing shares of the worldwide smartphone market, which
reached $219 billion last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The global patent fights heated up in March 2010,
when Apple filed its first complaint at the International Trade
Commission against Android-phone maker  HTC Corp. (2498)   An ITC judge is considering whether Microsoft infringed
Motorola Mobility patents including two for video compression
technology. Motorola Mobility dropped two patents on Wi-Fi
standards that will expire shortly after the scheduled end of
the investigation. The ITC found that Apple didn’t infringe two
of Motorola Mobility’s standard-essential patents.  Two federal judges will consider arguments that Motorola
Mobility breached its commitment to the industry groups to offer
its standard-essential patents on fair terms. The first trial,
involving Apple Inc.’s breach of contract claims against
Motorola Mobility, begins Nov. 5 in federal court in Madison,
 Wisconsin , while a non-jury trial of Microsoft’s claim against
Motorola Mobility is scheduled to begin Nov. 1 in federal court
in  Seattle . Neither judge is expected to rule immediately.  Retail Royalties  Motorola Mobility had asked for royalties of 2.25 percent
on the retail price of each product, which it has said was the
standard opening offer it makes. It has said neither Microsoft
nor Apple would negotiate.  Microsoft said in court papers the royalties would amount
to $4 billion a year, a figure it would never agree to pay.
Apple, in its own case, said the technology is worth, at most,
$1 per unit.  “It’s hard to see the antitrust violations here as being
very strong,” said Jorge Contreras, an associate law professor
at American University in Washington. “They are rattling a lot
of sabers at the regulatory agencies, but my suspicion is that
those won’t go that far,” said Contreras, who participated in
an FTC workshop last year on standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 