-- G-20 to Tackle Banking Union After 28 Global Lenders Named
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-11-01T10:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/g-20-to-tackle-banking-union-as-list-of-28-global-lenders-named.html
A global list of 28 systemically
relevant financial institutions will be published today in
advance of a meeting in  Mexico  of finance officials from the
world’s biggest economies, a German government official said.  The Nov. 4-5 meeting of Group of 20 officials will discuss
 Europe ’s plans for banking union and the 28 system-relevant
banks, the German official told reporters in Berlin today on
condition of anonymity because the G-20 negotiations are ongoing
and private.  Germany , which has pressed for measures to shield taxpayers
from bailing out the biggest global banks, is backing efforts by
international regulators to extend a push against companies
deemed too big to fail. The Financial Stability Board last year
decided to list 29 so-called globally systemic banks that should
hold more capital.  It’s “an important step” that G-20 countries agreed last
November that global banks “deemed ‘too big to fail’ will face
requirements going forward that this will no longer be paid by
the community, by the citizens,” German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  told lawmakers in Berlin last year.  Germany will press G-20 finance ministers and central bank
governors gathering in Mexico City this weekend to tackle
financial market regulation as a central theme, the official
said. He compared the issue to rowing against the current; you
have to keep up the strokes or you’ll be pushed back down the
stream.  Crisis Blame  Germany is also determined to rebuff any efforts by fellow
G-20 partners to pin the blame for the world’s economic slowdown
on the sovereign debt crisis in the 17-nation euro area, the
official said.  To that end, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  will
deliver a “keynote” speech in Mexico on the current status of
crisis-fighting plus longer-term efforts to put the euro on a
sounder footing and resolve the turmoil.  Greece , the country at the center of the crisis, thrust
itself on to the G-20 agenda at a leaders’ summit in the French
resort of Cannes in November last year, when Merkel and then-
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  opened up the possibility for
the first time of expelling Greece from the euro.  While big questions remain open regarding Greece,
especially over the country’s debt sustainability, Greece won’t
feature much in the G-20 discussions in Mexico, the German
official said.  The big focus in Mexico will be on how to underpin global
economic growth, while voting reform at the  International
Monetary Fund , energy and revisiting past commitments to halve
budget deficits will also feature on the agenda in Mexico, the
German official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  