-- Retailers’ October Sales Top Estimates
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-11-01T21:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/gap-to-target-sales-trail-estimates-amid-election-diversion-1-.html
U.S. retailers posted October same-
store sales that topped analysts’ estimates as rising home
values and  consumer confidence  boosted spending.  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and
 Target Corp. (TGT)  were among chains that trailed projections.  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-biggest U.S. department-store
chain, said same-store sales increased 4.1 percent, topping the
4 percent average estimate of analysts surveyed by researcher
Retail Metrics Inc.  Kohl’s Corp.’s (KSS)  same-store sales rose 3.3
percent, beating estimates for a 0.8 percent gain.  Confidence among U.S. consumers climbed in October to a
five-year high as  unemployment  declined and property values
rose. Cool weather, strong traffic and Columbus Day weekend
promotions drove a “good start” to the month, Randal Konik, an
analyst at Jefferies Group Inc., wrote yesterday.  Specialty retail stocks are likely to rise during the
holiday season amid “leaner inventories, improving consumer
sentiment and expectations that are still too low,” Konik,
who’s based in  New York , said in a note.  Macy’s, based in Cincinnati, said comparable-store sales in
the second half of the year will gain about 4 percent, up from a
previous estimate of about 3.7 percent.  The shares  rose 6.4
percent to $40.52 at the close in New York. Kohl’s, based in
 Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , added 3.2 percent to $54.99.  Beating Estimates  Same-store sales for the more than 20 companies tracked by
Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics rose 5 percent,
excluding drugstores, beating estimates for a 4.6 percent gain,
the firm said in a report today. That follows a 3.9 percent
increase in September. Most chains count locations open at least
a year to tabulate same-store sales. The revenue is a key
indicator of a retailer’s growth because new and closed sites
are excluded.  Some chains missed the lift. Retailing has been “stuck a
little bit” because of the uncertainty around the  U.S.
presidential election  on Nov. 6, Les Wexner, chief executive
officer of  Limited Brands  Inc., said in a presentation to
investors on Oct. 17. Customers will resume regular habits after
it’s over, he said.  Retailers may also adjust their behavior after the election
by spending more on advertisements, said Tom Clarke, a Detroit-
based director in the retail practice at consulting firm
AlixPartners.  “Normally you see retailers on TV, in print, putting some
dollars into the early part of the holiday season, but there are
still so many dollars going towards the election and driving the
advertising from an electoral spend, I think it’s hard to really
make a strong presence,” Clarke said in a telephone interview.
“You may see some retailers shifting their spend.”  Target, Gap  Target, the second-biggest U.S. discount retailer, posted a
2.4 percent increase in same-store sales, missing the 2.9
percent estimate.  Gap, the biggest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer, said
sales rose 4 percent, falling short of the average projection
for a 5.6 percent gain. The company, based in  San Francisco ,
said third-quarter profit may rise to as much as 63 cents a
share, topping analysts’ estimates for 54 cents a share,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gap  North America ’s
same-store sales for the month gained 6 percent while the
company’s comparable-store sales declined 2 percent overseas.  Gap fell 0.2 percent to $35.65 while Minneapolis-based
Target slid 1.3 percent to $62.94.  Limited Brands, the owner of the Victoria’s Secret and Bath
& Body Works chains, reported October same-store sales that rose
3 percent, trailing analysts’ estimates for a 5.6 percent gain.  The company, based in Columbus,  Ohio , said third-quarter
profit may be as much as 25 cents a share, up from an August
forecast of a maximum of 20 cents. The stock fell 0.7 percent to
$47.57.  Zumiez Tumbles  Teen retailer  Zumiez Inc. (ZUMZ)  reported yesterday that October
same-store sales rose 0.6 percent, trailing estimates for 4.4
percent, and lowered its third-quarter profit forecast amid
challenges in  Europe . The stock slid 17 percent to $21.13, the
biggest one-day drop since Aug. 4, 2011.  Hurricane Sandy  led to a two-day shutdown for U.S. stock
trading and may have caused more than $20 billion of economic
damage. The storm’s effects on retailers won’t be significant
because most of its damage occurred on a Monday and a Tuesday
instead of the weekend, and it was well before Black Friday and
the start of holiday shopping,  Jennifer Davis , an analyst with
Lazard Capital Markets in New York, said in a telephone
interview before the report.  Colder Weather  Retailers will stand to gain once the weather gets colder,
she said.  “It hasn’t been cold enough to spur heavy winter coats and
heavy sweaters, but it’s been cold enough to spur fall
merchandise, like lighter-weight sweaters, denim,” she said.  Specialty retailers’ sales relative to analysts’
expectations may have been limited by “clean inventory, a lack
of heavy clearance, election distraction, and lack of reason to
buy until Black Friday,”  Adrienne Tennant , an analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in  Washington , wrote in a note today.
Still, October is the smallest sales contributor for retailers’
third quarter and a clearance month as stores make way for
holiday merchandise, she wrote.  The month “typically has little ability to change the fate
of a company’s third-quarter performance,” she wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  