-- Geithner-Draghi No Show Risk Turning Mexican G-20 Into Flop
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-11-01T00:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/geithner-draghi-no-show-risk-turning-mexican-g-20-into-flop-1-.html
As  Mexico  gears up to host finance
officials from the Group of 20 biggest economies a number of key
absences threaten to turn the gathering into a non-event.  The no-shows at the Nov. 4-5 meeting in Mexico City include
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  and U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , as well as the finance chiefs
from Brazil and France. The presence of People’s Bank of China
Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  is uncertain. Without these power-
wielding players, chances of having a meaningful gathering are
slim to none, analysts said.  “Unfortunately, at a time of still many risks to the
global economy, the G-20 has weakened substantially,” said
Athanasios Vamvakidis, the London-based head of G-10 currency
strategy at Bank of America Corp. “The G-20 rose to the
challenge during the global crisis of 2008-09, but it seems
irrelevant now. This makes all countries worse off.”  Unfortunate timing may be one reason for so many
cancellations. The Nov. 4-5 meeting -- Mexico’s last before it
hands the G-20 presidency to Russia -- comes as the U.S. is
struggling to recover from the biggest Atlantic storm in history
and hours before the Nov. 6 presidential election. China’s
Communist Party is readying a once-in-a-decade power transition
while Europe is focused on whether Spain will seek a bailout.  The absences “say more about the exigencies of domestic
economic issues than it does about the future of the G-20,”
said  Daniel Price , who helped organize the 2008 summit for
President  George W. Bush  and is now managing director at
Washington-based Rock Creek Global Advisors LLC.  Draghi, Geithner  In the case of Geithner, who won’t be staying on regardless
of whether President  Barack Obama  is re-elected, “one can
understand why he’d want to stay put,” according to Price. The
U.S. markets just re-opened yesterday after their longest
weather-related closure since the 1880s.  Geithner is not coming because of a scheduling issue, said
a Treasury spokeswoman. Heading the U.S. delegation will be his
Undersecretary for International Affairs Lael Brainard. Stepping
into Draghi’s shoes will be ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio ,
according to an ECB spokeswoman. A press official with the
Mexican  Finance Ministry  said a list of confirmed attendees
wasn’t available because responses were still coming in.  G-20 Important?  The G-20 has had mixed success delivering its goals outside
of crisis conditions since its leaders first met as a group in
late 2008 when the world was reeling from the fallout of the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  An April 2009 summit in  London  ended with a $1.1 trillion
plan to aid the world economy and the more diverse G-20
subsequently replaced the Group of Seven as the main forum for
global policy coordination.  Still, members have backtracked on pledges to regain
control of fiscal deficits and to avoid protectionism, as well
as clashed on how to regulate banks, whether to impose a tax on
financial companies and how much currency flexibility to allow.
Developing nations have also criticized the use of monetary
policy by rich nations to prop up growth, with Brazilian Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  accusing the U.S. and Europe of stoking a
global “currency war.”  “There aren’t many incentives for cooperation in
international economic policy at the moment,” Walter Russell
Mead, a professor at Bard College and fellow at the  Council on
Foreign Relations , wrote in an e-mail. “Central banks in the
U.S. and the EU are bent on a course that makes problems for
many  emerging markets , but the domestic forces supporting those
policies are so strong that little will change.”  Mexican Politics  Mexican politics also played a role in undermining this
weekend’s meeting, after outgoing President  Felipe Calderon 
pushed up a summit of world leaders to before elections in July,
said  Jacob Kirkegaard , a research fellow at the Washington-based
Peterson Institute for International Economics. Traditionally
such end-of-year gatherings are the culmination of 12 months of
work and two ministerial-level meetings by the host nation.  “That means that there is no real agenda for the G-20
right now, as there is no urgency for the hosts to present
something the leaders can deliver on,” Kirkegaard wrote in an
e-mail.  Calderon’s press office declined to comment when asked
about whether electoral politics played a role in the
scheduling.  Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said finance
officials would follow up on talks held in June by heads of
state, without undertaking new initiatives.  “I’d say that there really isn’t a new agenda,” Carstens
said yesterday in Mexico City.  Tokyo Jet-Lag  Deja-vu may also be setting in. It was only three weeks ago
that many of the same financial leaders gathered in  Tokyo  for
the International Monetary Fund’s annual meetings.  Not much has changed since then, when many of the same
faces left at odds over how to tackle a global economy that is
facing its third major brake on expansion in five years. China
and Brazil, which three years ago helped lead the world out of a
recession sparked by the U.S. mortgage meltdown, now face
slowing growth at home.  “Diligent finance ministers won’t have recovered from
their Tokyo jet lag, and here comes Mexico,” wrote Mead. That’s
“crazy,” he said.  In the case of Europe, critical decisions need to be
reached at a national level before they can be discussed on a
global stage. Chief among those is whether Spain will act on
Draghi’s offer made nearly three months ago of an ECB bailout
for the debt-distressed nation.  “Sometimes the hardest decision is not to take any
decision,” Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  told the
Spanish Parliament yesterday.  Unless Rajoy makes his mind up between now and this
weekend, there may be little his economy minister, Luis de
Guindos, can tell his colleagues when he travels to the Mexican
capital at the invitation of the G-20.  Putin Takes Over  This is not the first time this year high-profile summits
have been marked by absences.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin , fresh off winning
elections, decided to skip a Group of Eight summit hosted in May
by Obama at his retreat near  Washington . Now it’s up to the
Russian leader “to find a new agenda to reverse the decline”
of the G-20, said Kirkegaard. Until then, there is sense of
fatigue at too many meetings with too few results, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  