-- German Chemical Group Sees No Uptick of Demand in Europe
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-11-01T09:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/german-chemical-group-sees-no-uptick-of-demand-in-europe.html
Germany ’s chemical association VCI,
which represents 1,650 chemical companies including  BASF SE (BAS)  and
 Lanxess AG (LXS) , sees little chance of a rebound in demand in  Europe ,
saying exports drove a “slight” gain in production.  Third-quarter production in the industry gained 1.5 percent
while prices dropped 0.7 percent compared with the previous
three months, the Frankfurt-based group said in an e-mailed
statement today. It stuck to a forecast for full-year revenue to
remain unchanged at about 184 billion euros ($238 billion) with
production declining 3 percent compared with last year.  “The slight increase in production in the quarter is not a
reversal of the trend,” VCI President Karl-Ludwig Kley said in
today’s statement. “We are still successful in non-European
markets and therefore could make up for sales deficits in the
European Union.”  BASF, the world’s biggest chemical maker, on Oct. 25 cut
for a second time this year its estimates for global economic
growth, saying it expects no upturn in demand for its chemicals
business in the last three months of the year. U.S. rival  Dow
Chemical Co. (DOW)  said it will close factories, including plants in
four European countries, and cut about 2,400 jobs.  Selling prices in 2012 are still expected to be 2.5 percent
higher than last year on average, the VCI said.  Sales for the industry remained about the same at 44.9
billion euros in the third quarter compared to the previous
three months, the association said. Domestic sales dropped 1
percent, while revenue abroad gained 1 percent, VCI said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  