-- Getty Stirs Alarm by $2 Million Donation to Fund Premiere
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-11-01T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/getty-stirs-alarm-by-2-million-donation-to-fund-premiere.html
Eyebrows were raised when  Welsh
National Opera  announced that it is getting a $2 million grant
from the wealthy Getty family for the forthcoming world premiere
of “Usher House” by one of the family members.  So I put to artistic director David Pountney the obvious
question: What first attracted you to the music of billionaire
composer Gordon Getty?  Pountney’s answer, as he speaks on the telephone from
Wales, has an unexpected twist.  “I heard the opera being recorded in Lisbon,” he says.
“I found it a nuanced and atmospheric telling of the story (of
Edgar Allan Poe’s ‘The Fall of the House of Usher’), so I wanted
to do the premiere in Wales. It was made extremely clear to me
beforehand however that Mr. Getty never gives money to fund his
own pieces. So I thought: let’s be imaginative.”  Pountney had to overcome Getty’s fear of being seen as a
vanity-project merchant. His idea was to ask for support for a
series of five U.K. premieres over four evenings, of which
Getty’s one-act piece would be a part of a double-bill. The
whole series is called British Firsts.  “After a lot of discussion,” he says, “Getty and his
family agreed, on the basis that by putting so large a
proportion of what they were prepared to give into other
people’s works, it would be unreasonable for anybody to turn
round and complain that Gordon was simply paying for his own
works. It hasn’t stopped people making that accusation.”  Staging Cost  Perhaps because it’s still partly true. One eighth of the
total grant, that is $250,000, is earmarked for the staging of
his own piece.  “If Mr. Getty had wanted merely to buy a staging of his
own opera,” Pountney says, “he could have done it anyway.”  The fortune of Gordon Getty, 77, is about $4 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . He is the fourth
son of oil tycoon John Paul Getty, and a philanthropist and
patron of the arts.  The Getty family has given $1 million to WNO. Gordon Getty
has matched their efforts to bring the total to $2 million.  He has had a long career as a composer, and once studied to
be a singer. He has written songs, orchestral works and
cantatas, and his opera “Plump Jack,” based on the character
of Falstaff, was recorded on the Pentatone label. He completed
another opera based on  Oscar Wilde ’s “The Canterville Ghost.”  Judging from excerpts on his website (www.gordongetty.com)
his general style is tonal, pastoral and easily accessible. The
climactic passage from his cantata “Joan and the Bells” has
enjoyable pomp and grandeur. The recording of “Usher House”
itself, conducted by Larry Foster, hasn’t yet been released.  Lucre, Integrity  The most important question is: is his opera any good? Or
has filthy lucre triumphed over artistic integrity?  Conductors Larry Foster and Ulf Schirmer (the intendant of
Leipzig Opera who conducted the “Plump Jack” recording) are
prepared to stand up for Getty’s music on its own merits, says
Pountney. To those who have suggested Getty has only a  mediocre
talent , I would say it’s wiser to judge on a case-by-case basis.  Great composers have been capable of churning out mediocre
pap, such as Beethoven’s tedious potboiler “Wellington’s
Victory.” Might not a second-rater (even if Getty is such a
thing) rise to produce something decent once in his life? Much
more sensible to wait and see.  Debussy Premiere  The opportunity to do so will arise in 2014, when the world
premiere of “Usher House” will be paired with the U.K.
premiere of Debussy’s “The Fall of the House of Usher” (an
unfinished work, completed by Robert Orledge.)  “I think it’s important to say that Getty is an American
composer, setting a very American story, and capturing the
atmosphere precisely,” says Pountney. “I’ve chosen to put it
with Debussy’s French version of the same tale.”  Other works in the British Firsts series are by Unsuk Chin
(in 2017), by Jonathan Harvey (2013), and by Richard Ayres
(2015). All of these have already had premieres elsewhere.  “These are operas which are being performed, and yet which
have never been staged in Britain,” says Pountney. “It’s a
real service to bring them to the public.”  Finally I ask if Pountney was prepared for the brickbats.  “Who’s the loser here?” he says. “WNO gets to present an
adventurous program. Our public gets to see it. Gordon Getty
wins too. If there’s no money there’s no culture, and there
should be more recognition that in the climate we all face,
enlightened philanthropy should be applauded.”  British Firsts runs at Welsh National Opera 2013-2017.
“Usher House” will receive its world premiere in the summer of
2014, and will then be presented at San Francisco Opera the
following year.  http://www.wno.org.uk   Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Greg Evans  on TV,  Craig Seligman  on books and  Jason Harper  on
cars.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 