-- Girls Dominate Boys in New Horseracing Norm: David Papadopoulos
-- B y   D a v i d   P a p a d o p o u l o s
-- 2012-11-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/girls-dominate-boys-in-new-horseracing-norm-david-papadopoulos.html
U.S. horseracing is becoming a
female-dominated world.  Fillies and mares have won Horse of the Year honors the
past three years, matching the total they produced in the first
38 years of  Eclipse Awards  voting by industry executives and
journalists. The three champions --  Rachel Alexandra , Zenyatta
and Havre de Grace -- faced the boys seven times during that
stretch. They won five of those races, taking second and fourth
place in the other two (in addition to winning 36 out of 48
times in events restricted to female horses).  While this year’s Horse of the Year title remains up for
grabs, the focus is again on the fillies before the final
marquee event of the racing season, the  Breeders’ Cup , a 15-race
program stretched over two days at Santa Anita Park in Arcadia,
 California .  Tomorrow’s $2 million Breeders’ Cup Ladies’ Classic has a
star-studded field that the males’ $5 million Classic can’t
match the following day. For starters, the field contains two
undefeated fillies, Awesome Feather and My Miss Aurelia. They
are a combined 16-0, including a victory for each of them in the
past two editions of the Breeders’ Cup two-year-old fillies
race.  Then there’s Questing, a three-year-old speedball owned by
Dubai ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum that became a
Horse of the Year candidate when she romped to a nine-length win
in the $600,000 Alabama Stakes at Saratoga Racecourse in August.  None of those horses is the winner, though.  Blue Blood  That prize will go to Royal Delta. She’s beautiful, she’s
blue-blooded and she’s 100 percent racehorse. After capturing
the Ladies’ Classic as a three-year-old last year, she was put
up for  auction  in Lexington,  Kentucky , where she sparked a
bidding war that drove her sale price to $8.5 million.  Royal Delta began her four-year-old season for her new
owners with two subpar efforts, including a failed trip to Dubai
in March, before rebounding to win three of her past four.  Two of those victories were visually stunning performances
that have no equal in U.S. dirt racing this year. She won those
two -- in  Kentucky  and  New York  -- by a combined 17 1/2 lengths
while under almost no urging from her rider,  Mike Smith .  Look for her to rally late tomorrow to take the 1 1/8-mile
(1.8-kilometer) Ladies’ Classic and vault to the top of Horse of
the Year award discussion.  The boys should consider themselves lucky that she’s not in
the $5 million Classic. She’d run by all of them too.  (David Papadopoulos, the team leader for Latin America
markets coverage at  Bloomberg News , has been following
thoroughbred racing for more than two decades and was runner-up
in 2008 Eclipse Award voting for feature writing on the sport.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Papadopoulos in  New York  at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jay Beberman at 
 jbeberman@bloomberg.net  