-- Glaxo, Roche Drugs Help Treat Breast Cancer in Brain
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-11-01T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/glaxo-roche-drugs-help-treat-breast-cancer-in-brain.html
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK)  Plc’s  breast cancer 
pill Tykerb, used with  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s drug Xeloda, helped
treat the disease’s spread to the brain, according to a study.  The treatments shrank the size of  brain tumors  by at least
50 percent in two-thirds of the patients studied, according to a
trial funded by London-based Glaxo and published today in the
Lancet Oncology journal. The research included 45 women who have
the HER2 gene and advanced stage breast cancer.  As many as 30 percent of women with advanced breast cancer
develop secondary brain tumors. Traditionally, most of these
women receive whole brain radiotherapy, which can impair
cognitive function, said lead study author Thomas Bachelot of
the Centre Leon Berard in Lyon,  France .  “Delaying such treatment for those patients is potentially
a big advance,” Bachelot said in a statement. The patients had
a median of 8.3 months before they needed radiotherapy, the
study found.  The results of the drug combination were similar to that
from radiotherapy, also known as radiation treatment, the
authors said. A direct comparison with patients who received
radiotherapy wasn’t made as part of the study, limiting the
findings, the researchers said. Another constraint was the small
number of patients, they said.  About half of patients experienced diarrhea and fatigue,
leading to treatment discontinuation in four patients, they
said.  Given the side effects, further study is “urgently
warranted” to compare the combination treatment with radiation,
Rupert Bartsch of the Medical University of Vienna and Matthias
Preusser of the Comprehensive Cancer Centre in Vienna, said in a
comment accompanying the article.  Still, for patients with multiple brain metastases from
HER2-positive breast cancer, the combination treatment may
already be “a valid treatment option,” while in other
patients, radiation is still the standard of care, Bartsch and
Preusser said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  