-- Global Regulators to Cut List of Too-Big-To-Fail Banks to 28
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-11-01T10:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/global-regulators-to-cut-list-of-too-big-to-fail-banks-to-28.html
Global regulators will publish a list
of 28 too-big-to-fail banks that must hold additional capital, a
German government official said. That is one less than the 29
identified last year.  The list will be published today in advance of a Nov. 4
meeting in  Mexico  of finance officials from the world’s biggest
economies, the German official told reporters in Berlin on
condition of anonymity because the G-20 negotiations are
private.  The Financial Stability Board last year published a list of
29 banks that should hold more capital than required by other
international agreements because of their importance to the
global financial system.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
 BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  were provisionally earmarked to face the top level
of surcharges, set at 2.5 percent of risk-weighted assets.  “I think there is general agreement around the world that
increasing capital requirements has a negative effect on the
economy and delays the recovery,” Simon Gleeson, financial
regulation partner at Clifford Chance LLP, said in a telephone
interview today. “It’s a question of calibration.”  The most likely bank to drop off the updated list is  Dexia
SA (DEXB) , the Franco-Belgian lender that is being broken up after
losing access to unsecured funding,  Karel Lannoo , chief
executive officer of the Centre for European Policy Studies in
Brussels, said last month.  G-20 Nations  The FSB said last year that regulators would update the
list on an annual basis, with each revision to be published in
November. The FSB brings together central bankers, regulators
and government officials from G-20 nations to coordinate
financial rulemaking.  The capital surcharges for systemic banks, ranging from 1
percent to 2.5 percent, come on top of agreements by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  to more than triple the core
reserves that lenders have to hold against possible losses.
These so-called Basel III rules are intended to apply to all
internationally active banks, and are scheduled to fully apply
from 2019.  Large international lenders would have faced a 374.1
billion euro shortfall ($484.4 billion) in the capital needed to
meet Basel III had it been in force at the end of 2011,
according to data published by the Basel group in September. The
figure factors in the surcharges for globally systemic banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net 
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  