-- GM Jumps Most Ever Promising to Stanch Losses in Europe
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-11-01T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/gm-jumps-most-ever-promising-to-stanch-losses-in-europe.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s biggest surprise
yesterday wasn’t earnings that beat estimates by 55 percent. It
was that it expects to break even by the middle of the decade in
Europe, a region where it has lost $17.3 billion since 1999.  GM’s pledge to end losses that it said may reach
$1.8 billion this year in as soon as three years puts it on the
same pace as  Ford Motor Co. (F)  The second-largest U.S. automaker
announced plans last week to close three factories in the next
two years, eliminating 6,200 jobs, or 13 percent of its
workforce in the region.  While GM’s plan doesn’t call for as many job cuts or plant
closings, the Detroit-based automaker said it’s making moves
that will cut costs by $200 million this year and $500 million
annually beginning next year. That’s on par with the
$450 million to $500 million in annual savings Ford promised
from cutting its European factory capacity by 18 percent.  “Because Ford has tangible factory closings, investors are
likely to deem it more credible,” said  Brian Johnson , an
analyst with Barclays that recommends both stocks.  Still, the higher-than-estimated earnings and the vow to
become profitable in Europe boosted GM shares  9.5 percent  to
$25.50 at the close in  New York . It was the stock’s biggest one-
day gain since its initial public offering in November 2010. The
U.S. still holds about  500 million shares  of GM, or 32 percent
of the stock, and that stake increased in value by about
$1.11 billion yesterday.  Headcount Reduction  GM said it’s reducing employment in Europe this year by
2,600, mostly through early retirements and voluntary
separations. It’s trimming a shift at a factory in eastern
 Germany  and put a transmission plant in Strasbourg,  France ,
“under review.” GM’s biggest shutdown, at a Bochum, Germany,
van plant, doesn’t come until 2016, two years after Ford’s
closings.  “We’re managing to a cost number, not just taking out
heads for the sake of taking out heads because it’s some
statistic people put out,” Steve Girsky, GM’s vice chairman in
charge of turning around its European operations, said on a
conference call yesterday. “We’re not in the habit of
announcing things and doing them. We’d rather do them and then
announce them.”  Such reticence isn’t satisfying to everybody on  Wall Street .  “Right now, these are just words on a page,” said Adam Jonas, a Morgan Stanley analyst who recommends the stock. “This
is GM’s effort to manage the news flow. GM is trying to stay out
of the headlines that don’t help them sell cars.”  Moved Already  Girsky said GM has already reduced factory capacity, such
as closing a Belgium plant in 2010 and consolidating production
of the Astra model in two plants instead of three. GM cut
$300 million in fixed costs in Europe this year, mostly through
stealth job reductions, he said.  “We’ve taken 2,600 people out this year,” Girsky said.
“We didn’t say boo about it. We didn’t have a lot of fanfare.
We just went out and did it.”  Even with the cuts GM has revealed, it will still have too
much factory capacity, said Stefan Bauknecht, a Frankfurt-based
portfolio manager at Deutsche Bank AG’s DWS unit, which owns GM
stock.  “They have to really scale Opel down strongly, by closing
Bochum and  Kaiserslautern ” factories in Germany, Bauknecht said.  Brand Image  GM also has the opportunity to boost image and prices on
its Opel brand, battered by the parent company’s 2009 bankruptcy
and strained relations with European unions, Girsky said. GM is
introducing 23 new models in  Europe  by 2016.  “Our brand image has deteriorated over the last several
years,” Girsky said. “The bankruptcy was part of it. The poor
relations with the works council was another part of it. We are
working very hard. We know we’re behind.”  That work is being done mostly by new leaders. GM has
cleaned house in its European executive suite, eliminating three
quarters of the top leaders there in the past year, Girsky said.  “We’re talking about a business with a culture that’s lost
$14 billion over 10 years and we’re trying to break a mindset,”
Girsky said. “You want to challenge the status quo. The way you
do that is you move  people  around.”  The losses persisted in the third quarter. GM lost $478
million in Europe in the third quarter before interest and taxes,
compared with an operating loss of $292 million a year earlier.  Slumping Europe  GM’s struggling European operations have slid further as
the region’s auto market has collapsed amid the stubborn
sovereign-debt crisis. Auto sales may drop to their lowest level
in 19 years, according to industry group ACEA.  GM said losses in Europe this year will run $1.5 billion to
$1.8 billion. The automaker promised “slightly better” results
in 2013, even as the European market continues to decline, and
then the company will break even by “mid-decade.”  The news was better for GM in the rest of the world.
Automotive earnings excluding Europe rose 4.3 percent in the
third quarter to $2.63 billion, before interest and taxes, as it
commanded higher prices for its models and expanded in  emerging
markets  in  Asia  and  South America .  GM’s earnings per share excluding one-time items totaled
93 cents,  beating the 60-cent  average estimate of 17 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. GM’s net income slipped to $1.83 billion
from $2.1 billion a year earlier.  Ford’s Beat  Ford also beat analysts’  expectations  by earning
$1.63 billion in the third quarter, driven by record pretax
profit of $2.3 billion in  North America . Dearborn, Michigan-
based Ford’s North American turnaround has given analysts
confidence it can revive Europe. There was less optimism about
GM’s plan because it lacked specifics, wrote Peter Nesvold, an
analyst with Jefferies & Co.  “The company is targeting break-even by mid-decade
(mirroring Ford’s targets), although without a plan it’s
difficult to critique the viability of this forecast,” Nesvold,
who rates GM a hold, said in a note to investors yesterday.
“GM’s mid-decade targets won’t have quite the same weight as
Ford’s.”  One thing GM has that Ford doesn’t: A broad-based alliance
with Paris-based  PSA Peugeot Citroen. (UG)  GM and Peugeot said
 Oct. 24  they would jointly develop small and mid-size cars, vans
and utility vehicles. They are also close to finalizing a deal
to reduce costs through shared parts purchasing, Dan Ammann,
GM’s chief financial officer, said yesterday.  ‘Coming Weeks’  “We’ve identified four product programs that we’ve agreed
to work on jointly now and that we’re continuing to work on the
joint purchasing collaboration,” Ammann said. “We’re working
on those and would expect to bring those to resolution in the
coming weeks.”  GM seemed to downplay the potential of its PSA alliance
yesterday, Morgan Stanley’s Jonas said. Some have viewed that
partnership as a way for GM to offload its unprofitable European
operations, Jonas said. Girsky declined to comment on the
potential for a larger tie-up with PSA or any other automaker.  The PSA partnership “only occupied one bullet point and it
was the last bullet point on one page,” Jonas said of GM
executives’ presentation to analysts yesterday. “Maybe that was
conspicuous by its lack of content.”  The French government on Oct. 24 committed $9 billion in
state credit guarantees to Peugeot’s finance unit to help prop
up Europe’s second-largest automaker.  “I don’t expect any proper solution from the alliance
between GM and Peugeot,” said Bauknecht, the portfolio manager
at Deutsche Bank. “The two weakest players in the market are
going hand-in-hand to conquer the auto markets in Europe and the
world. I don’t see this as a realistic scenario.”  GM’s weakness in Europe may be the very reason it can
achieve break-even by mid-decade, said Johnson of Barclays.  “It’s the glass quarter-full and three-quarters empty,”
Johnson said. “Because their product line has aged and been
underinvested in, even though they’re not starting from where
Ford is, there’s arguably more room to claw their way back up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  