-- GM to Honda See Sales Rebound After Sandy Hurt October
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-11-01T22:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/gm-joins-chrysler-missing-sales-estimates-after-sandy.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said U.S. sales this month probably
will rebound on deferred purchases and replacement demand after
 Hurricane Sandy  disrupted auto purchases in October.  All automakers missed analysts’ average estimates for U.S.
sales in Bloomberg’s monthly survey after the superstorm slammed
the East Coast during the industry’s busiest time of the month.
The three top-selling automakers in the country said they expect
a boost in November from owners swapping damaged vehicles and
from would-be buyers who couldn’t make it to flooded showrooms.  “Anybody who reads these numbers as ‘the industry is
softening’ is incorrect,” Michelle Krebs, an analyst for
researcher Edmunds.com, said by telephone. Sales that didn’t
occur on the coast in the days before, during and in the wake of
the storm “will be made up, and there probably will be a plus-
side after that.”  Sandy’s strongest impact occurred on the coastline from New
Hampshire to Virginia, putting a halt to car-buying activity at
about 1,000 auto retailers in New York and New Jersey alone,
dealership consultant Urban Science said. Typically in October,
the last seven days generate more than 30 percent of industry
sales, according to Santa Monica, California-based Edmunds.  “Despite the impact of Sandy, October was a solid month
for Toyota and the industry,”  Bob Carter , the company’s U.S.
senior vice president, said in a statement. “We look for the
market to remain strong in the months ahead.”  Missing Estimates  U.S. light-vehicle deliveries rose 6.9 percent in October
to 1.09 million, researcher Autodata Corp. said in an e-mailed
statement. The industry missed analysts’ projections for a 12
percent gain to 1.15 million, the average of nine estimates.
Most of the analysts provided their outlook before the
superstorm Sandy made landfall on Oct. 29.  Asia-based automakers led by Toyota and  Honda Motor Co. (7267) 
increased sales 8 percent from a year earlier for a combined
44.4 percent of the U.S. market last month, up 0.4 percentage
point, according to Autodata. U.S.-based GM, Ford and Chrysler
had a combined 44.5 percent market share in October, down from
45.7 percent a year earlier.  Automakers sold light vehicles at a 14.3 million annualized
 rate , which is adjusted for seasonal trends, according to
Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based Autodata. The pace fell short
of 14.8 million, the average of 16 estimates.  The industry sales rate was 13.3 million in October 2011,
when automakers led by Toyota and Honda were recovering from
car-supply constraints following Japan’s tsunami last year. The
U.S. auto market has been in steady recovery in 2012,
culminating in September’s sales pace of 14.9 million, the best
since March 2008, Autodata said.  Probable Blip  October likely will be a blip for the U.S. industry, which
remained on track through the first 10 months of the year to
reach 14.7 million vehicle sales,  Erich Merkle , Ford’s sales
analyst, said on the company’s conference call. That figure
includes medium- and heavy-duty vehicles, which typically
account for at least 200,000 deliveries per year.  “The first two weeks of November will be a little slower,
then picking up toward the end of the month, and getting better
than average in December,” said  Jesse Toprak , industry analyst
for auto pricing and data service TrueCar.com in Santa Monica,
California. “By year end any losses should be made up.”  The U.S. averaged 16.8 million annual light-vehicle
deliveries from 2000 to 2007, according to Autodata. Sales are
on pace to increase at least 10 percent for the third
consecutive year, the first such streak since 1973, after a 27-
year low in 2009.  GM’s Rise  GM sales in October rose 4.7 percent to 195,764 from
186,895 a year earlier, according to a statement. That missed
the 7.8 percent average estimate of 11 analysts. Deliveries of
the Chevrolet Cruze compact car surged 34 percent to 19,121.  Demand “does tend to snap back relatively quickly” after
natural disasters, Kurt McNeil, vice president of U.S. sales for
Detroit-based GM, said yesterday on the company’s conference
call. “We do see both the demand that was in the marketplace
coming back and, obviously, a lot of those consumers and
businesses will need vehicles.”  Hurricane Sandy’s impact to the industry sales pace was
about 300,000 units on an annualized basis, Ryan Brinkman, a New
York-based analyst for JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote yesterday in
a research note.  Ford, Chrysler  Ford’s light-vehicle deliveries rose 0.3 percent and
Chrysler Group LLC’s climbed 10 percent, according to company
statements. The carmakers missed 11 analysts’ average estimates
for gains of 3.2 percent by Ford and 15 percent for Chrysler.  “We’re finding that the key areas of dealerships being
down is concentrated in the New Jersey and New York area, where
there was significant flooding in low-lying areas,”  Ken Czubay ,
Ford’s U.S. sales chief, said on the company’s conference call.
“To my knowledge, they’re all back up in operation in some form
or another.”  Ford deliveries of cars and light trucks increased to
167,947 in October from 167,502 a year earlier, the Dearborn,
Michigan-based company said in its statement. Sales of the Focus
compact gained 48 percent to 18,320.  Toyota, the No. 3 U.S. seller,  said  its sales rose 16
percent, trailing the 26 percent gain that was the average of
eight analysts’ estimates. Deliveries of the Prius line surged
52 percent to 16,774 and the Camry rose 36 percent to 29,926.  Those results exclude some deliveries in New York and  New
Jersey  that the automaker didn’t receive from dealers that
lacked electricity, said Bill Fay, group vice president of U.S.
sales for the Toyota City, Japan-based company.  November Bounce  “A lot of that will roll into November and even
December,” Fay said on the company’s conference call. Toyota
will let customers in the storm-affected region defer vehicle
payments, he said.  Chrysler, the automaker controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , said sales
climbed to 126,185 vehicles from 114,512 in a statement. The
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company’s deliveries of the 300
sedan increased 40 percent to 5,183 and Ram pickups climbed 20
percent to 25,222. The automaker extended its streak of monthly
sales gains from a year earlier to 31 consecutive months.  Honda sales gained 8.8 percent to 106,973, less than the 16
percent average estimate of eight analysts. Honda urged dealers
to clear stock of Civic compacts because the car is being
refreshed late this year after criticism by reviewers including
 Consumer Reports . Civic deliveries surged 28 percent.  ‘Missing Figures’  “There are definitely some missing figures” in Honda’s
sales report in addition to Toyota’s, said  Chris Martin , a
spokesman for the Tokyo-based company. The number of vehicles on
dealer lots that were damaged “is in the thousands right now.
We’re still in the guessing mode.”  Combined sales of  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and affiliate  Kia
Motors Corp. (000270) , both based in Seoul, rose 2.9 percent to 92,723,
falling short of the 13 percent average of six analysts’
estimates.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , with four estimates, was projected to have a
26 percent gain for combined sales of its Volkswagen and Audi
brands. Total deliveries for two brands rose 20 percent, the
Wolfsburg, Germany-based automaker reported in separate
statements.  Sales for  Nissan (7201)  Motor Co. declined 3.2 percent to 79,685,
missing estimates for a 4.6 percent increase, the average of
eight estimates. The automaker will offer employee pricing and
discounted financing on its namesake and Infiniti brand vehicles
for “eligible individuals” in the disaster zone caused by the
superstorm, according to a statement yesterday.  The area hit hardest by Sandy accounts for about 40 percent
of Nissan’s sales in the Northeast region, said  Al Castignetti ,
vice president of U.S. sales for the namesake brand.  “It’s not lost business,” Castignetti said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “It’s deferred business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  