-- Goldman Loses Bid to Avoid Trial Over Dragon Systems Sale
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-11-01T19:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/goldman-loses-bid-to-avoid-trial-over-dragon-systems-sale.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lost a bid
to avoid trial in a lawsuit over the 2000 sale of Dragon Systems
Inc., a pioneer in voice-recognition software, to a Belgian
competitor that collapsed following an accounting scandal.  U.S. District Judge Patti Saris in  Boston  yesterday
declined Goldman Sachs’s request to throw out claims by James
and Janet Baker, Dragon System’s founders, that Goldman Sachs
failed to provide adequate advice in the sale of their $600
million company for stock in Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products
NV. Goldman Sachs was paid $5 million for advising Dragon.  The Bakers, who owned 51 percent of Dragon Systems at the
time of the transaction, claim they lost about $300 million and
the rights to patents they developed as voice-recognition
researchers, when Lernout & Hauspie failed months after it was
sold. The Belgian company filed for  bankruptcy protection  in
November 2000 after public disclosure of improper accounting
forced it to restate $373 million in earnings.  The Bakers claim Goldman should have warned Dragon about
deficiencies in Lernout & Hauspie’s accounting. Saris’s ruling
yesterday clears the way for a trial in the case, which is set
to begin Dec. 10.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said that
Lernout & Hauspie created bogus customers, booked circular
transactions with shell companies and recorded loans as sales
from 1996 to 2000.  “The court has denied all of Goldman Sachs’s efforts to
prevent a trial,” said Alan Cotler, the Bakers’ lawyer.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman spokesman, declined to comment
on the ruling.  The case is Baker v. Goldman Sachs & Co., 09-cv-10053, U.S.
District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  