-- Gordhan Defends South Africa’s ANC as Strikes Hurt
-- B y   O l i v i a   S t e r n s   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-11-01T06:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/gordhan-defends-south-africa-s-anc-as-strikes-hurt.html
South  Africa ’s ruling  African
National Congress  has been responsible in its relationship with
investors and doesn’t have immediate plans to boost taxes in
mining, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  “Taxing a particular industry is not within our radar at
the moment,” Gordhan, 63, said in an interview with Bloomberg
TV in  Pretoria  yesterday. “The assurance we want to give
investors, mining houses, others, is that the ANC, in 18 years,
has demonstrated immense responsibility in the way it has
managed its relationship with business and investors.”  Gordhan is trying to shore up confidence as the ANC’s push
for “radical” measures to combat a 25 percent  unemployment 
rate unsettles investors and after Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded South Africa for the first time
since the end of apartheid. ANC members are set rule on
proposals to nationalize mining assets and raise taxes when they
meet at a party leadership conference in December.  Taxes are “part of our discussion in broad policy terms,”
Gordhan said. “When and how and if we exercise it, it’s a
matter that we will have to decide within the context of what is
happening at that particular point in time.”  South Africa ’s mining industry is already facing the worst
labor unrest since the end of apartheid in 1994. Strikes that
began at  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  in August spread to shafts owned by  Anglo
American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , cutting output by
10.1 billion rand ($1.2 billion) this year, according to the
National Treasury. At least 44 protesters died in violence at
Lonmin’s Marikana mine, 34 of them killed by police on Aug. 16.  Risk Perceptions  Violence “is not what we want to be known for around the
world,” Gordhan said. The strikes have cut exports and reduced
government revenue, he said.  Investors’ risk perceptions have increased since the
strikes began on Aug. 10. The cost of insuring South African
debt using credit-default swaps increased 23 basis points in the
period to 153 yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with a 62 basis point decline for the
Markit iTraxx SovX index of emerging-market nations. The rand
weakened 0.2 percent to 8.6564 a dollar at 8:30 a.m. in
Johannesburg.  South Africa produces about 75 percent of the world’s
platinum and is Africa’s largest gold producer. Mining accounts
for about two-thirds of exports.   The ANC Youth League and its former leader,  Julius Malema ,
have led a campaign for the government to nationalize mines,
forcing the ANC to agree to investigate its viability. The
study, released at the party’s June policy conference, found
that mine seizures would result in a near collapse of foreign
investment and be an “unmitigated economic disaster.” The
policy is still favored by some provincial ANC branches and a
final decision is expected in December.  “We hope that finally at the ANC conference in December we
will resolve that,” Gordhan said. “Many of us have expressed
our view that that is no panacea for the problems we have.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivia Sterns in London at 
 osterns1@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  