-- Greece Needs a Writedown, Not a Buyback
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-01T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/greece-needs-a-writedown-not-a-buyback.html
The prime minister of  Greece  took a
large political risk Oct. 31 to keep Greece in the euro, just as
other euro area leaders appear to be recognizing that the
country needs more time and more relief from its debt
obligations to survive.  That’s progress. Lowered interest rates for Greece and help
with a debt buyback are among the ideas under discussion. Any
move by Germany to work with Greece is welcome, even if things
are only where they should have been two years ago.  The coming week’s flurry of deal-making may secure the
release of Greece’s next 31.5 billion-euro ($40.8 billion) aid
tranche. Yet a possible debt buyback for Greece would not
reverse the country’s downward economic and political spiral.
Nor will the further 13.5 billion euros of budget cuts and tax
increases that Prime Minister Antonis Samaras accepted publicly
yesterday, at the risk of collapsing his coalition government.  Why the pessimism? Because more than 9 billion euros of
cuts and other measures will take effect next year, meaning that
further recession is pretty much guaranteed. Five years into a
contraction that has so far wiped out almost a fifth of the
Greek economy, ordinary Greeks and bond markets alike still need
to be shown a believable route to solvency and growth.  Losing Buybacks  The new budget that Samaras presented to his parliament on
Oct. 31 projects that Greece’s government debt will rise to
almost double the size of the economy in 2013, or 189.1 percent
of gross domestic product. As we’ve shown before, the kinds of
budget surpluses needed to bring that level of debt under
control are not historically plausible for Greece.  The debt buyback idea is appealing, not least because it
allows  Germany  to agree to a debt reduction measure for Greece
without having to cross its own red lines of forgiving debt that
the country owes to the German government or the European
Central Bank. Under a buyback, the  European Stability Mechanism ,
the euro area’s permanent bailout fund, probably would loan
Greece money to buy its bonds from investors at the current,
discounted market rates. Greek 10-year bonds, for example,
traded yesterday at about 32 cents on the dollar, so in theory
Greece could retire three dollars of loans for every dollar it
borrows.  Here’s the problem, though: debt buybacks have perverse
effects. As Stanford University economics professor Jeremy Bulow
showed in a  joint paper  with Harvard’s Kenneth Rogoff during the
Latin American crisis of the 1980s, buybacks tend to drive up
the price of remaining bonds, leaving the market value of a
government’s debt little changed. For Greece, Bulow tells us,
“This is a case of proposing to spend money for the purposes of
facilitating accounting make-believe.”  In addition, a buyback could only address a part of the
roughly 40 percent of Greece’s 340 billion euros of debt that is
privately held. According to researchers at Greece’s Eurobank, a
30 billion euro buyback that works efficiently would knock about
12 percentage points off Greece’s debt pile by 2020, leaving it
still well above the IMF’s 120 percent of GDP target.  What’s needed now is a writedown of Greek government debt
owed to official creditors, as the International Monetary Fund’s
Christine Lagarde recently suggested. Official lenders hold
about 60 percent of Greek government debt.  Failed Commitments  We see the outlines of a possible deal here, albeit one
that would require extraordinary political courage as well as
legal changes in Germany,  Athens  and at the European Central
Bank. Germany and other official lenders would need to accept a
writedown of their debt, and at the least commit to directly
recapitalize Greek banks when that becomes possible, a step that
would remove up to 50 billion euros from the government’s
liabilities.  The other side of the Greek impasse is the repeated failure
of governments in Athens to carry through on the commitments to
which they signed up in two previous bailouts.  The top priority here has been to rebuild the
dysfunctional Greek tax collection system. Results have been
disappointing: Since January, the tax service has been without
the independent chief that the government promised to give it.
In equally dispiriting news, when a journalist recently
published a two-year-old list of 2000 Greek groups with bank
accounts in Switzerland, the journalist was prosecuted. A court
declared him innocent of the breach of privacy charges on Nov.
1.  Small wonder, then, that Germany is worried about giving
Greece more help. German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble has
proposed that bailout money and future Greek budget surpluses
should go into a trust fund, which would be kept out of the
reach of the Greek government. This seems reasonable. Greece
should also agree that in areas such as tax collection, failure
to act will mean handing over more power to the technicians of
the EU’s  Task Force for Greece , who already are working with
Greek ministries.  These aren’t precedents that we like or want to see
repeated, but Greece has shown itself to be a special case. It
needs the kind of deep changes that new EU applicant countries
must now go through in order to join. If Greek and euro area
leaders don’t want to take the risk of a currency meltdown that
a Greek default might entail, then they need to be bolder still.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: In a signed editorial,  Michael R. Bloomberg
endorses President  Barack Obama  for re-election.  Also, Stephen Carter on the  election night concession speech ;
Ezra Klein on a  unified field theory of Romney ; Jonathan Mahler
on Dan Okrent, the  founder of Rotisserie baseball ; A. Gary
Shilling on  five possible global shocks ; Amity Shlaes on how
 disasters make government bigger ; Carl Pope on the
Republican defense of an  obsolete economy .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 