-- Greece Must Help Itself to Fix Crisis, Bundesbank’s Dombret Says
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-11-01T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/greece-must-help-itself-to-fix-crisis-bundesbank-s-dombret-says.html
Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret said  Greece  is far behind in implementing its reform
program and shouldn’t rely on international creditors like the
European Union to solve its problems.  “Politicians and the EU are willing to assist Greece, but
Greece must, first and foremost, help itself,” Dombret said in
a speech in  New York  today. “Announcing and passing laws is not
enough if the administration and the general public undermine
them. It is now the task of the troika to decide impartially
whether Greece meets the conditions for further assistance.”  Euro-area governments are pressing Greece, which faces a
sixth year of recession, to make deeper spending cuts to unlock
a 31-billion euro ($40 billion) aid payout in November.
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  urged Greek
lawmakers yesterday to solve remaining issues before finance
ministers gather in Brussels on Nov. 12.  While Greece is “way behind the program goals due to the
standstill in consolidation and basic structural reforms,”
other countries are making progress, Dombret said. “My favorite
example is Ireland, which shows that trust can be regained if
the agreed measures are adopted and implemented.”  Ireland is preparing to exit its bailout program at the end
of 2013, three years after concerns about the country’s ability
to cope with its bank debt and  budget deficit  pushed it into
seeking aid. Stefan Gerlach, deputy governor of the Irish
central bank, said on Sept. 28 that the government won’t have
any problem with refinancing itself in financial markets.  Banking Union  Dombret said the proposed banking union in  Europe  may be a
“major step” toward breaking the link between banks and
sovereigns. Creditors should be “first in line” in bearing
bank losses to protect government finances so that taxpayers’
money is only the last resort, he said.  “With regard to spillovers from sovereigns to banks,
sovereign bonds need to be adequately risk-weighted to
strengthen market signals and improve resilience in case of
market turmoil,” he said. “In addition, there should be caps
on banks’ maximum exposure to individual sovereign creditors, as
is already the case with private creditors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  