-- Greek Stocks Tumble Amid Concerns on Government Stability
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-11-02T08:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/greek-stocks-tumble-amid-concerns-on-government-stability.html
Greek stocks  are headed for the
biggest weekly retreat in 2 1/2 years as coalition government
lawmakers squabble over austerity that a Bundesbank official
warned must be enforced to keep bailout funds flowing.  The country’s benchmark  ASE Index (ASE)  has declined 12 percent
this week, the most since May 2010, after the government
unveiled debt forecasts falling further behind its targets.
Shares extended declines after a Greek court ruled that planned
pension cuts may be unconstitutional.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s bid to please lenders from
the European Union and  International Monetary Fund  with a 13.5
billion-euro ($17.5 billion) austerity package and unlock vital
funds ran into renewed obstacles this week from coalition
partners. A law on state asset sales that is key to reducing
debt scraped through Parliament this week, raising concerns on
whether Samaras’s coalition will be able to muster requisite
support to pass the measures.  “Politicians and the EU are willing to assist Greece, but
Greece must, first and foremost, help itself,” Andreas Dombret,
a board member at the German central bank, said in  New York  late
yesterday. Greece is “way behind the program goals due to the
standstill in consolidation and basic structural reforms.”  Bond Yield  The yield on Greece’s benchmark 10-year bond increased 40
basis points to 18.17 percent yesterday, widening the spread on
similar-maturity German bunds to 16.7 percentage points. On the
stock exchange,  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the Mediterranean
nation’s largest lender, plummeted 12 percent. Public Power
Corp. tumbled 11 percent and  Opap SA (OPAP)  fell 6.9 percent.  The ASE climbed 1.1 percent to 769.92 at 10:54 a.m. in
 Athens  today, snapping six days of losses.  Greek lawmaker Michalis Kassis, a member of the socialist
Pasok party that supports the government, said yesterday on MEGA
TV that he will sit as an independent and vote against the
austerity measures that Greece must implement to receive further
funding from the EU-led bailout. There has been no official
confirmation from Kassis or Pasok of his decision.  Pasok’s 33 lawmakers are key to keeping Samaras in power
and providing him with the majority to pass the laws that
lenders need to approve international aid payments. Samaras
formed a government with Pasok, which came in third in a general
election on June 17, and with sixth-placed Democratic Left. All
three say the coalition government must keep  Greece  in the euro.  Labor Reforms  Democratic Left, which has said it would support the
budget, is adamant it will oppose labor reforms demanded by
creditors. In addition to Kassis, the coalition government has
lost another three lawmakers opposed to the austerity measures
and can now say it has 175 seats in the 300-seat chamber.  “Almost 30 MPs from the two junior coalition parties
failed to back the law” yesterday, Manos Giakoumis, research
director at Euroxx Securities SA in Athens, wrote in an e-mailed
note. That sparked increasing speculation “on the cohesion of
the coalition government ahead of the critical vote on budget
and structural reforms next week,” he wrote.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has signalled her
willingness to keep Greece in the euro, though the country’s new
debt forecasts show it may struggle to hit the targets necessary
to ensure the IMF keeps paying its share of the rescue money.  “Announcing and passing laws is not enough if the
administration and the general public undermine them,” Dombret
said. “It is now the task of the troika to decide impartially
whether Greece meets the conditions for further assistance.”  Economic Outlook  The Greek government cut its economic outlook for 2013 as
it unveiled a budget this week that deepens cuts to pensions,
wages and social benefits to meet the terms of its bailout.
Those measures and raising the  retirement age  to 67 from 65 may
be unconstitutional, state-run Athens News Agency reported
yesterday, citing a ruling from the  Supreme Court  of Audit.  That opinion isn’t binding on the government, a finance
ministry official said yesterday.  Debt is now forecast to peak at 192 percent of gross
domestic product in 2014, jeopardizing the country’s efforts to
meet a debt target of 120 percent of GDP by 2020.  Germany  has
said it is open to discussing a proposal for a buyback of
Greece’s debt that is supported by the  European Central Bank ,
which holds about 45 billion euros of Greek  government bonds .  Measures being considered to make Greece’s debt sustainable
need to cut that burden significantly, IMF spokesman Gerry Rice
told reporters in  Washington .  ‘Many Options’  “Our view is that there are many options to help reduce
Greece’s debt burden and they should be considered,” he said.
Debt buybacks “could be useful if they were implemented in such
a way as to deliver a meaningful reduction.”  Greece needs its creditors to unfreeze a 31.5 billion-euro
tranche from its March bailout agreement, the country’s second
since May 2010, which it needs to recapitalize its banks and
provide liquidity for an economy in a fifth year of recession.  The nation’s banks slumped yesterday amid heightened
uncertainty. The FTSE/Athex Banks Index fell 12 percent to the
lowest level in seven weeks. Aside from the drop in National
Bank of Greece shares to 1.58 euros, Eurobank Ergasias SA fell
10 percent to 80.9 euro cents. Alpha Bank SA and  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) 
slid 11 percent to 1.60 euros and 16 percent to 34.9 cents,
respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  