-- IMF Says Measures to Cut Greek Debt Must Be Meaningful
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-11-01T16:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/imf-says-measures-to-cut-greek-debt-must-be-meaningful.html
Measures being considered to make
 Greece ’s debt sustainable need to cut that burden significantly,
an International Monetary Fund spokesman said as the country’s
creditors negotiate ways to unfreeze its bailout package.  “Our view is that there are many options to help reduce
Greece’s debt burden and they should be considered,” IMF
spokesman Gerry Rice told reporters in Washington today. Debt
buybacks “could be useful if they were implemented in such a
way as to deliver a meaningful reduction.”  The combination of Greek political indecision and economic
weakness in recent months has jeopardized the country’s efforts
to meet a debt target of 120 percent of gross domestic product
by 2020, from a peak now forecast at 192 percent in 2014.
 Germany  has said it is open to discussing a proposal for a
buyback of Greece’s debt that is supported by the  European
Central Bank , which holds about 45 billion euros ($58.2 billion)
of Greek  government bonds .  ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen first aired the
buyback plan in an interview with German newspaper  Sueddeutsche
Zeitung  released on Oct. 12. Greece could be lent money to buy
back its own bonds, which have a current market worth below
their nominal value, he said.  ECB, Debt  Such a move would not amount to a debt write-off, Asmussen
was cited as saying. He also reiterated that the ECB could not
buy the debt for the Greek government.  Greek stocks today dropped for a sixth day, headed for the
biggest weekly retreat in four years, amid concern that the
country’s coalition government will fail to enforce the
austerity program demanded by the European Union. The ASE Index
sank 5 percent to 761.24 at the close of trading in  Athens ,
extending the decline so far this week to 13 percent.  While finance ministers from the euro area said yesterday
resuming loans for Greece requires more effort by the government
to rein in its  budget deficit  and deregulate the economy, the
IMF has said European policy makers must decide how to fill
Greece’s financing gap and reduce its debt for the next
disbursement to occur. Berlin has already rejected any write-off
of euro-area loans to Greece.  Further Pressure  “The IMF does not seem convinced about the debt buyback
idea, which is going to put further pressure on the ECB’s Greek
holdings,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard
Chartered Bank in  London . “We should not underestimate the
possibility that the IMF digs in its heels over Greece’s debt
trajectory, potentially withholding its share of funding.”  The next disbursement would be part of a 130 billion-euro
rescue package approved earlier this year after an initial 110
billion-euro bailout in 2010.  “We called on the Greek authorities to solve remaining
issues so as to swiftly finalize the negotiations,” Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said in an e-mailed  statement 
yesterday after leading a two-and-a-half-hour conference call
with the finance chiefs. He said a scheduled Nov. 12 meeting of
the ministers in Brussels would “seek to conclude on the
program.”  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  participated in
that call and will probably attend the Nov. 12 meeting, Rice
said today. The IMF cannot lower its  interest rates  for Greece
and has already indicated that it wouldn’t lend more money to
the country.  Rice also said he expects a team to return to Cyprus soon
after receiving counter-proposals from the authorities on a
program of measures under a potential loan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  