-- India One-Year Swap Rate Reaches Seven-Week High on Cash Squeeze
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-11-01T11:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/india-one-year-swap-rate-reaches-seven-week-high-on-cash-squeeze.html
India ’s one-year  interest-rate swaps 
rose to a seven-week high as a lack of government spending and
increased consumer withdrawals in the festival season caused a
cash shortage in the banking system.  Lenders borrowed an  average  of 671 billion rupees ($12.5
billion) a day from the monetary authority’s repurchase window
last month, compared with 482 billion rupees in September,
central bank data show. Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao cut the reserve-requirement  ratio  for a fourth time
this year by 25 basis points to 4.25 percent on Oct. 30 to ease
the cash squeeze. The repurchase  rate  was left at 8 percent.  “Swap rates are inching higher as funds are getting
scarce,” said Srinivasa Raghavan, executive vice president of
treasury at  Dhanlaxmi Bank Ltd. (DHLBK)  in Mumbai. “Investors are also
disappointed as the RBI didn’t cut borrowing costs.”  The fixed payment to lock in one-year borrowing costs rose
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.76 percent in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
highest since Sept. 12.  The “systemic liquidity deficit has been high because of
several factors including the wedge between deposit and credit
growth, the build-up of the government’s cash balances from mid-
September and the drainage of liquidity on account of a
festival-related step-up in currency demand,” the RBI said in a
statement Oct. 30.  The run-up to Diwali, the Hindu festival of lights to be
celebrated next week, is traditionally marked by purchases of
gold, houses, apartments and vehicles.  The yield on the benchmark 8.15 percent government bonds
due June 2022 fell two basis points to 8.19 percent, according
to the central bank’s trading system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  