-- Indonesia Inflation Quickens as Weaker Currency Boosts Costs
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-11-01T07:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/indonesian-inflation-quickens-as-weakening-currency-boosts-costs.html
Indonesia ’s inflation accelerated to
a 13-month high in October as  Asia ’s worst performing currency
this year boosted the cost of imports, reducing the scope for
interest-rate cuts to counter falling exports.  Consumer prices  climbed 4.61 percent from a year earlier
last month, after rising 4.31 percent in September, the
statistics bureau said in Jakarta today. The  median  of 20
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 4.59 percent gain.
Exports fell 9.4 percent in September from a year earlier, the
sixth month of declines.  Bank Indonesia  has refrained from adding to a February rate
cut to prevent further weakening the rupiah, which has dropped
more than 5 percent this year in the biggest decline among 11
Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
economy has withstood the global slowdown amid  Europe ’s debt
crisis, with growth forecast by  analysts  to hold above 6 percent
for an eighth quarter in the three months through September.  “The weakening currency has hurt inflation,”  Destry Damayanti , chief economist at PT Bank Mandiri in Jakarta, said
before the report. “Most likely in November prices will be
stable as there’s no pressure from food and transportation.
There’s no strong reason for the central bank to change its
monetary policy this month.”  Growth Estimate  Indonesia’s growth may accelerate to 6.4 percent in the
third quarter on “strong” investment growth and “robust”
domestic consumption, Bambang Brodjonegoro, head of the fiscal
policy office at the  Finance Ministry , said in an interview in
Jakarta today.  “We are optimistic for the full year of 2012 that the
economy may grow 6.4 percent, a bit below the government’s
target of 6.5 percent due to uncertainty in the global
economy,” he said. The economy remains resilient and Indonesia
may benefit from higher infrastructure investment as government
spending increases and state companies start building ports and
airports, he said in a Bloomberg Television interview from
Jakarta.  The rupiah extended its decline after the report, weakening
as much as 0.6 percent to reach a three-year low at 9,664 per
dollar, the lowest level since October 2009, according to prices
from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The currency dropped 0.2
percent today to 9,629 as of 2:22 p.m. in Jakarta.  The  exports  decline in September followed a revised 24.7
percent drop in August. Imports rose 1.2 percent from year
earlier. The  trade surplus  widened to $553 million from $233
million the previous month, and totaled $1.03 billion in the
nine months through September, the statistics office said.  Trade Surplus  The trade surplus may reach about $2.5 billion at the end
of this year as exports improve, Satwiko Darmesto, a director of
distributional statistics at the bureau, said in Jakarta today.
Overseas sales may ease to less than $200 billion in 2012 from
$203 billion last year, as Europe struggles even as the U.S.
shows signs of recovery, Darmesto said.  Consumer prices rose 0.16 percent last month from September,
today’s report showed. The core inflation rate was 4.59 percent,
compared with a 4.12 percent pace the month before.  Inflation should remain “manageable” this year, Suryamin,
chairman of the statistics office, said in a briefing in Jakarta
today. Still, having  core inflation  nearing the level of the
main price gauge is a concern, and managing the pressure can be
done by the central bank through  interest rates  and currency
stability, he said.  Price gains for 2012 may be 4.5 percent or less,
Brodjonegoro said. He declined to say if the government plans to
increase the price of subsidized fuel to cut subsidy costs.  “We’ll see, the important thing is we’ve got authority to
raise subsidized fuel prices next year if needed from the
parliament,” he said.  Indonesia’s budget deficit this year may be bigger than 2
percent of gross domestic price even as it will not exceed 2.3
percent, because the government needs to increase the volume of
subsidy fuel, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  