-- Indonesia Growth Seen Exceeding 6% Reduces Need for Rate Cut
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-11-02T03:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/indonesian-growth-seen-exceeding-6-reduces-need-for-rate-cut.html
Indonesia ’s economic growth probably
held above 6 percent last quarter, as domestic spending and
rising investment countered falling exports, giving the central
bank room to refrain from cutting  interest rates .  Gross domestic product probably grew 6.2 percent in the
three months through September from a year earlier, according to
the median estimate of 12 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
ahead of a government report due Nov. 5. The economy expanded
6.37 percent in the previous quarter.  Bank Indonesia  will
probably keep its  benchmark rate  at 5.75 percent on Nov. 8,
according to all 11 economists in a separate survey.  Policy makers in Southeast  Asia ’s biggest economy have
avoided adding to a February rate cut even as neighbors from
 Thailand  to the  Philippines  extended monetary easing to counter
faltering global growth. The rupiah is Asia’s worst-performing
currency this year, boosting import costs and pushing  inflation 
to a 13-month high in October.  “There’s less need to ease because the domestic economy
is running quite hot,” said Eugene Leow, a Singapore-based
economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. “Indonesia will be
resilient and all the indicators so far in terms of consumption
have been supportive,” said Leow, who expects a 75 basis-point
increase in interest rates by the end of 2013.  The rupiah touched a three-year low yesterday and rose 0.1
percent to 9,618 per dollar as of 10:17 a.m. in Jakarta. It has
fallen about 6 percent this year, the biggest decline among 11
most-traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on
the benchmark 10-year bonds slid to an almost eight-month low,
while the Jakarta Composite index was little changed.  Growth Target  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  has pledged to build
more highways, airports and ports to improve infrastructure and
meet a growth target of an average 6.6 percent by the end of his
second term in 2014. Domestic investment in the third quarter
climbed 33 percent and foreign direct investment advanced 22
percent from a year earlier, government data showed last month.  “Domestic demand remains strong,” said Eric Alexander Sugandi, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank Plc in Jakarta.
“So the central bank will keep interest rates at the current
level in November to support the economy and the rupiah.”  Malaysia is also due to announce its policy decision on Nov.
8. The  Bank of Korea  will hold its benchmark rate at 2.75
percent on Nov. 9, according to a separate Bloomberg survey.  Indonesia’s  exports  fell 9.4 percent in September from a
year earlier, a report showed yesterday, a sixth straight month
of declines. Consumer prices climbed 4.61 percent in October
from a year earlier.  Still, the manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index climbed
to 51.9 from 50.5 in September, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics said yesterday, and strong local demand has boosted
revenues of companies. PT Bank Mandiri, the country’s biggest
lender by assets, posted a 39 percent jump in third-quarter
profit to the highest level in at least nine years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  