-- Inexpensive SulAmerica Buoyed by Rising Income: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-11-01T18:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/inexpensive-sulamerica-buoyed-by-rising-income-corporate-brazil.html
Sul America SA, Brazil’s third-
largest health insurer by sales, is also the cheapest, signaling
the shares have room to gain as rising incomes and higher
employment boost demand for private medical plans.  The insurer, whose controlling shareholders include ING
Groep NV, traded at 12 times its estimated annual profit
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
ratio of 38 for hospital operator  Amil Participacoes SA (AMIL3) , 32 for
dental-plan provider  Odontoprev SA (ODPV3) , and 15 for insurer  Tempo
Participacoes SA. (TEMP3)   The $4.9 billion  acquisition  of Amil by  UnitedHealth Group
Inc. (UNH) , the No. 1 U.S. health insurer, “shows strong foreign
appetite for healthcare providers in Brazil,” Eduardo Nishio,
an analyst at Brasil Plural, wrote in a report yesterday.
SulAmerica, which is focusing more on health plans and less on
auto and property insurance to fuel revenue gains, will benefit
from a scarcity of publicly traded providers, he said in an
interview.  “The price paid by UnitedHealth for Amil is buoying the
entire sector,” Rodolfo Amstalden, an analyst at equity
consulting firm Empiricus Research, said in a telephone
interview from  Sao Paulo . “The outlook for growth in health and
dental is extremely favorable. SulAmerica, with 1.92 billion
reais ($945 million) of health-care premiums, had significant
growth in the third quarter. Looking forward, that’s going to
stay strong.”  Shares Rise  Rio de Janeiro-based SulAmerica rose 3.7 percent to 16.59
reais as of 4:37 p.m. in Sao Paulo trading, bringing its year-
to-date gain to 12 percent, after reporting third-quarter profit
that topped analysts estimates. The benchmark Bovespa index rose
2.3 percent since the start of 2012.  Net income climbed 9 percent to 106.7 million reais,
according to an Oct. 30 regulatory filing. That compares with an
average  estimate  of 95.6 million reais from six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The company got 69 percent of its
premiums from health insurance in the period, up from 66 percent
a year earlier.  UnitedHealth’s  acquisition  of Amil is fueling speculation
more health-care companies in  Brazil  will become takeover
targets, Nishio said. Minnetonka, Minnesota-based UnitedHealth
said in an Oct. 8 statement it agreed to buy 90 percent of Amil
for 30.75 reais a share, 22 percent more than the previous
session’s closing price.  “After Amil, everything is possible -- United was very
aggressive,” he said by telephone from Sao Paulo. “There’s
going to be a lot of consolidation.”  ING Sale  ING, which shares control of SulAmerica with the Larragoiti
family, is required to sell its insurance and investment-
management businesses before the end of 2013 after it received
10 billion euros ($13 billion) of government aid during the
financial crisis. This month, the Amsterdam-based lender agreed
to sell its insurance business in  Malaysia  to AIA Group Ltd. for
about 1.3 billion euros.  Victorina de Boer, a spokeswoman for ING, declined to
comment in an e-mail. SulAmerica didn’t return e-mails and
telephone calls for comment.  U.S. insurers have been on a buying spree in the past 12
months, snapping up smaller rivals as they prepare for reduced
profit margins under President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
overhaul.  Public Health  The market for health insurance in Brazil, the world’s
largest emerging economy after  China , is expanding as incomes
rise and  unemployment  hovers near a record low. That’s allowing
more people to choose private doctors and leave the  public
health  system, which serves about 75 percent of the population.
Brazilian private insurance membership has surged 14 percent in
three years, even as U.S. enrollments dwindled, according to an
Aug. 31 research note from Guilherme Assis, a Raymond James
Financial Inc. analyst in Sao Paulo.  SulAmerica’s stock gains may be limited as profit margins
are being squeezed by rising claims, Gustavo Schroden, an
analyst at BES Securities who rates the stock the equivalent of
hold, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  “The main problem for SulAmerica is that profit margins in
the health insurance sector in general are under pressure right
now,” he said. “Claims are increasing, so even with premiums
rising as well, they’re just covering higher costs, instead of
boosting profits. Since health insurance is SulAmerica’s main
line of business, that’s a problem.”  ‘Positive Correlation’  The Brazilian health insurance industry, which is “still
underpenetrated,” will continue to benefit as employment rises
and the population ages, Francisco Kops and Rafael Ferraz,
analysts at Banco J. Safra in Sao Paulo, wrote in a note to
clients on Oct. 29.  The jobless rate in Brazil fell to a record low of 4.7
percent in December and was 5.4 percent in September, versus 7.5
percent in May 2010, according to the national statistics
agency. Unemployment has remained close to historic lows as
President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration reduced  interest
rates , cut payroll taxes and increased subsidized credit to
businesses to spur economic growth.  “Considering the positive correlation between age and
health-care expenditures, demographic trend is in favor of a
solid growth for the segment,” the Safra analysts wrote. “We
expect unemployment to keep at low levels for the near future,
bolstering up health insurance growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  