-- LinkedIn Rises as Sales Top Estimates on Subscriptions
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/linkedin-sales-exceed-estimates-as-subscriptions-jump.html
LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  rose after reporting
third-quarter sales that exceeded analysts’ estimates as the
biggest professional-networking website sold more subscriptions
to its expanding customer base.  Shares rose as much as 9.5 percent after LinkedIn said
revenue jumped 81 percent to $252 million from $139.5 million a
year earlier. That topped the $244.1 million  predicted  by
analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income
was $2.3 million, or 2 cents a share, compared with a loss of
$1.6 million, or 2 cents, the company said yesterday in a
statement.  LinkedIn has revamped its profile pages and offered more
features to keep users coming back even when not job hunting or
recruiting. By becoming a bigger destination site, the company
has collected more data that’s useful to recruiters, leading to
a rise in subscription and advertising sales.  “You have a company that continues to make adjustments and
refinements to improve the quality of its products,” said  Tom Forte , an analyst at New York-based Telsey Advisory Group.
“They clearly have one of the better business models in the
Internet space and they’re doing a great job executing on it.”  The stock climbed to a high of $117 in extended trade after
falling less than 1 percent to $106.85 at the close in New York
yesterday. It’s up 70 percent this year and has more than
doubled since the company sold shares to the public in May 2011.  Broad Growth  LinkedIn said last month that more than 175,000 profiles
are created every day, and almost a third of visits are via
mobile devices.  The company, based in Mountain View,  California , forecast
fourth-quarter revenue of $270 million to $275 million. Analysts
are projecting $273 million, according to the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The number of members rose 6.9 percent to 187 million from
175 million at the end of the second quarter. In July, LinkedIn
upgraded its home page to highlight the activities of a member’s
professional connections, including articles read and work
profile changes. The company added more features last month.
These include the ability to change information directly on a
profile page, enhanced visual tools to discover what others are
sharing and communication within a professional network.  Revenue from LinkedIn’s talent solutions products, formerly
known as hiring solutions, climbed 95 percent to $138.4 million.
The subscriptions, which are sold to recruiters, accounted for
55 percent of total sales, up from 51 percent a year earlier.  Marketing solutions, or advertising, revenue rose 60
percent to $64 million, while sales from premium subscriptions,
which provide additional communication and search services,
increased 74 percent to $49.6 million.  U.S. revenue accounted for 64 percent of total sales, down
1 percentage point from the second quarter. More than 70 percent
of new users are coming from outside of the U.S., Chief
Executive Officer Jeff Weiner said on yesterday’s conference
call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  