-- Invesco Third-Quarter Net Rises as Markets Lift Assets
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-11-01T20:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/invesco-third-quarter-net-rises-as-markets-lift-assets.html
Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , owner of the Invesco,
 Van Kampen  and PowerShares funds, said third-quarter profit
increased 2.2 percent as rising stock markets and investor
deposits boosted assets.  Net income rose to $170.6 million, or 38 cents a share,
from $166.9 million, or 36 cents a share, a year earlier,
Atlanta-based Invesco said today. Invesco said adjusted profit,
excluding certain one-time items, was 42 cents a share, missing
the 45-cents-a-share average  estimate  of 20 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Chief Executive Officer Martin Flanagan has pushed into
products such as private equity, exchange-traded funds and
multi-asset class investments as investors industrywide have
fled traditional stock mutual funds. Invesco’s assets rose from
a year earlier to $683 billion, and increased 5.6 percent during
the quarter as investors deposited $11.7 billion in the three
months ended Sept. 30.  “Assets are meaningfully higher than they were a year ago,
and it’s a pretty strong picture across a number of investment
strategies,”  Michael Kim , an analyst with Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP in  New York , said in a telephone interview before
results were announced.  Investors put $5.8 billion into Invesco’s passive, long-
term investment products and $3.6 billion in active products.  Revenue Yield  Invesco rose 1.7 percent $24.74 at 4:15 p.m. in New York.
The stock  has risen  23 percent this year, compared with a 21
percent gain by Standard & Poor’s 20-company index for asset
managers and custody banks.  The average management fee that Invesco earned per dollar
that it oversees rose for the first time since the fourth
quarter of 2009.  “We’ve seen the fee yield on assets declining for several
years because of people moving to lower-fee products and lower-
risk products,” Chief Financial Officer Loren M. Starr, said
today in an interview. “This is very positive that we’ve seen
that trend reverse this quarter.”  Revenue increased 4.4 percent to $1.04 billion, as the firm
earned more, on average, from every dollar under management.  Expenses rose 7.2 percent in the quarter to $825 million.
Employee compensation rose 8.3 percent, driven in part by $8
million in costs related to a change in the way the firm
accounts for pay, Starr said.  BlackRock Earnings  “We feel really good about how the fourth quarter is
shaping up,” Starr said. “The trends we’ve seen in the third
quarter are continuing.”  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and T. Rowe Price Group Inc. also reported
higher quarterly profit after global stocks rallied in the past
year and rose 6.2 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30, as
measured by the  MSCI ACWI Index. (MXWD)   BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager, said Oct. 17
that net income rose 7.9 percent in the third quarter as market
appreciation offset $55 billion in client redemptions from the
New York-based firm. T. Rowe Price, based in Baltimore, said
Oct. 24 that profit rose 33 percent as investors deposited $4.3
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  