-- Issa’s Barrage of Allegations Triggers Campaign Disputes
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-11-01T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/issa-s-barrage-of-allegations-triggers-campaign-disputes.html
Republican Representative  Darrell Issa  has many questions he wants President  Barack Obama ’s
administration to answer: Why wasn’t more security outside the
Benghazi consulate? Is the White House encouraging federal
contractors to flout the law by not sending pre-election layoff
warnings to workers who may lose their jobs to spending cuts?  Was Medicare funding manipulated to hide the effect of
reductions on senior citizens until after the election? Where
are the rest of the documents he demanded on “Operation Fast
and Furious?”  Issa, 59, is chairman of the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee, a panel whose investigative mandate gives him
room to roam with such inquiries. His fellow Republicans praise
his questions as incisive. Many Democrats dismiss them as a
partisan effort to help Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  defeat Obama on Nov. 6.  “When I look at the timing of the Libya hearing and all
this other activity around the election, I think it becomes
blatantly clear that this is an effort to boost the chances of
 Governor Romney ,” said Representative  Elijah Cummings  of
 Maryland , the oversight panel’s top Democrat. “It’s just an
onslaught of allegations.”  Republicans on the committee call Issa a determined
watchdog facing off against an executive branch centered on
helping to re-elect Obama. Issa’s spokesman, Frederick Hill,
didn’t respond to multiple e-mail and phone requests to
interview Issa.  “They’re criticizing us for playing politics,” said
Representative  Jason Chaffetz , a Utah Republican who heads the
committee’s national security subcommittee. “What would be
political would be if we didn’t do our jobs because there’s an
election.”  Election Season  While most House members are campaigning to keep their
seats during Congress’s pre-election break, Issa has focused on
lobbing pages of pointed questions in letters to Obama and his
administration. Issa won his last election with 63 percent of
the vote and has raised $2.1 million in his re-election race
against a novice Democratic challenger, Jerry Tetalman, who had
raised $113,000 by Sept. 30.  Issa summoned his committee back to Washington for an Oct.
10 hearing into the Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. consulate in
Benghazi, Libya, that killed Ambassador Chris Stevens and three
other Americans.  A State Department official, Eric Nordstrom, testified that
he had raised concerns about security for U.S. personnel in
Libya and was turned down when he requested that a detail in
Tripoli extend its stay in the country. That and other testimony
shed light on the attacks, Chaffetz said.  ‘Exploit a Tragedy’  Democrats said they were denied access to a key witness and
to documents, and that the hearing was designed to emphasize an
issue Romney is using in the effort to damage Obama’s
credibility on foreign policy.  “Was this nothing but a blatant attempt to embarrass an
administration and to exploit a tragedy?” Representative Gerald Connolly, a Virginia Democrat who serves on the committee, said
in an interview. “You bet.”  Issa isn’t the only example of an assertive oversight
committee chairman with a partisan bent. Representative  Henry Waxman , a California Democrat who headed the panel when
Republican  George W. Bush  was president, investigated waste and
fraud in the Iraq reconstruction effort and whether the White
House use of Republican National Committee e-mail accounts
violated a law requiring preservation of presidential records.  Representative Dan Burton, an Indiana Republican, deluged
the administration of President  Bill Clinton  with subpoenas when
he ran the committee.  Unusually Aggressive  Issa’s actions are unusual because of the flurry of
activity in the weeks before an election, said Joel Aberbach, a
political science professor at the  University of California  at
 Los Angeles  who has studied congressional oversight.  “I don’t think it’s common with the aggressiveness that
Issa has exhibited,” Aberbach said in an interview.  Issa’s multiple inquiries are natural considering he’s
examining what he sees as the administration’s pre-election
maneuvers, said  Michael Franc , vice president of government
relations at the  Heritage Foundation , a Washington policy center
often cited by Republicans.  “Issa believes the administration is systematically using
all the tools in the president’s toolbox to further his re-
election chances,” Franc said in an interview. “Some of those
investigations may show that was the case. In other cases, he
may drill a few dry holes.”  ‘Step Away’  A Lebanese-American born in  Cleveland , Issa was twice
charged with auto theft as a young man. The charges were dropped
both times. He made his fortune from an electronics business
selling the Viper, an anti-theft device for automobiles. His is
the deep voice that warns, “Please step away from the car.”  Issa is among the wealthiest members of the House,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan
research group in Washington. He reported a net worth of $195.4
million to $700.9 million in 2010, when the center last
identified the richest lawmakers.  Elected to the House in 2000, Issa attracted attention on
the oversight committee before he became its chairman last year.
In 2010, as the panel’s top Republican, he grilled Treasury
Secretary Timothy Geithner about his role in the $182 billion
bailout of insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   ‘Corrupt’ Administration  Three days before Republicans took control of the House on
Jan. 5, 2011, Issa appeared on CNN to declare Obama’s “one of
the most corrupt administrations.”  Under Issa, the panel and its subcommittees have held more
than 190 hearings on such topics as Obama’s $831 billion
economic stimulus, the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul and the
effects of greenhouse-gas emissions.  Until the Libya hearing, Issa’s highest-profile probe was
his investigation of the “Fast and Furious” operation intended
to track guns illegally flowing to Mexican drug cartels. Issa
suggested the operation, which resulted in some illegally
purchased firearms from the U.S. winding up at crime scenes in
 Mexico , might have been intended to boost prospects for tougher
gun laws.  The House followed Issa’s panel in citing Attorney General
Eric Holder for contempt of Congress after the administration
refused to turn over documents the lawmaker sought by subpoena.
While the  Justice Department  says it provided more than 7,600
pages of documents, Obama asserted executive privilege in
withholding papers describing internal Justice Department
discussions after the operation.  Medicare, Defense  On Medicare, Issa has said the administration may have
misused bonus funds to delay the effects of budget cuts on
senior citizens until after the election. On layoff notices, he
wants to know about the administration’s role in persuading
defense contractors led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  to drop plans
to warn workers their jobs may be lost if automatic cuts start
in January.  Some of Issa’s tactics have left openings for his critics.  After he and Chaffetz released 166 pages of State
Department communications on Libya that were labeled
“unclassified but sensitive,” Democrats said the Republicans
failed to black out the names of Libyans who were working with
the U.S., exposing them to danger.  Identifying Libyans  “In their rush to make news they’ve exposed Libyans who
were working side by side with America,” Senate Foreign
Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry , a Massachusetts
Democrat, said in a statement.  The Libyans identified in the documents worked in jobs
where they would interact with Westerners anyway, Issa said in
an Oct. 20 statement.  “Obama administration officials and their surrogates are
clearly reeling from revelations about how the situation in
Benghazi was mishandled and are falsely politicizing the issue
in a last-ditch effort to save President Obama’s re-election
effort,” Issa said.  Issa produced a backlash in February when he convened an
all-male panel to discuss contraceptive coverage for women as
part of Obama’s health-care legislation. He refused to hear
Sandra Fluke, a student at Georgetown University Law School in
Washington who Democrats proposed as a witness. She went on to
become an Internet sensation -- and a speaker at Obama campaign
events -- after she was attacked in crude terms by radio host
 Rush Limbaugh .  Chaffetz, the committee Republican, said Issa should be
praised for his persistence by Democrats who chanted “Work!
Work! Work!” on the House floor when Republican leaders put the
chamber in recess for the election season.  The Democrats “can’t have it both ways” by complaining,
he said, as Issa keeps working away.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  