-- Mizuho Seeks to Boost Japan Equity Research to Chase Nomura
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-11-01T06:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/mizuho-hires-japan-stock-analysts-to-chase-top-researcher-nomura.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Japan’s
third-biggest bank by market value, added to its team of Japan
stock analysts in a bid to surpass top-ranked researcher  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)   The Japanese bank hired Fumihide Goto from UBS AG to cover
electronic parts makers and Kei Takahashi from  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  to study the telecommunications industry, said Yohei Osade, pan-Asia head of equities at Tokyo-based  Mizuho
Securities  Co. The two are starting work today, Osade said.  That brings the number of equities staff Mizuho has hired
since August to at least 12 as the company looks to sustain a
revival of its investment banking and brokerage operations. The
recruiting may offer a reprieve to employees at securities firms
after banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse
Group AG pared payrolls in  Tokyo  in the year ended March.  “I want to make Mizuho a research house surpassing
Nomura,” Osade, 44, who joined the firm in September from Bank
of America, said in an interview. “We want to seize business
from overseas firms that are scaling back Japan equity
operations and act as an intermediary between investors and
Japanese companies or issuers.”  Ranked No. 9  Mizuho ranks ninth among equity research firms in Japan
this year, and Nomura is first, according to a survey compiled
by Institutional Investor. Led by Osade, Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America jumped to first place in 2011
from No. 11 a year earlier.  Goto is the top-ranked analyst of the electronic parts
industry in Japan this year, according to Institutional
Investor.  Mizuho is already gaining ground in  investment banking . The
firm overtook Nomura as this year’s top adviser on Japanese
takeovers after winning a role working on  Softbank Corp. (9984) ’s
record $20 billion bid last month for  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   Mizuho Securities posted a profit for the second quarter,
led by bond trading, a filing showed yesterday. Net income was
2.9 billion yen ($36 million) for the three months ended Sept.
30, compared with a loss of 18.2 billion yen a year earlier.  The brokerage is encouraging cooperation between research
and sales staff for marketing and branding, and analysts will
work closely across regions, Osade said. He visited London, Hong
Kong,  Singapore  and New York for 11 days last month. Osade will
travel to  Hong Kong  and London again this month.  Mizuho in September hired Masatoshi Kikuchi as its pan-Asia
equity strategist and Hayato Nagayoshi as chief quants analyst,
Osade said. They were colleagues at Bank of America.  The Japanese bank plans to attract more overseas investors
by expanding research and sales staff who can work with English-
speaking clients, Yasuo Agemura, who is on the board of Mizuho
Securities, said in an interview last month. The brokerage aims
to increase its ratio of commissions from overseas clients to
half from 30 percent, he said.  Mizuho hired Agemura from Nomura last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  