-- Jack White, Hen-Night Comedian, Fireworks: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-11-02T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/jack-white-hen-night-comedian-fireworks-london-weekend.html
Jack White  is playing in London as he
steps into the spotlight as a solo star.  After years masterminding groups including the White
Stripes, Raconteurs and Dead Weather, White is on tour promoting
his CD “Blunderbuss.” The all-female backing group cranks out
blistering versions of tracks such as “Love Interruption.”  White is supported by Willy Moon on Nov. 2 and the Kills on
Nov. 3. Alexandra Palace, Alexandra Palace Way, N22 7AY.
Information: +44-20-8365-2121,  http://jackwhiteiii.com  and
 http://www.alexandrapalace.com .  Saturday  The skies over London will be ablaze on Saturday.  The annual bonfire night, formally Nov. 5, marks the failed
1605 plot against the crown. This year, Battersea Park is
starting a giant bonfire and hosting a fireworks display titled
“ London  Celebrates” that you can watch munching on toffee
apples and sipping mulled wine. Gates open at 6 p.m. Tickets can
only be bought in advance, and cost 10 pounds ($16.13) on
Saturday and 8 pounds before that (under-10s get in free).
Information:  http://www.wandsworth.gov.uk/fireworks   If you’d rather not pay, Blackheath Common is staging its
own fireworks evening, coupled with a fun fair that starts at 4
p.m. Information:  http://www.lewisham.gov.uk .  Saturday Night  “ Jerusalem ,” that rambunctious play about a boozer with a
bad leg, has an understated follow-up.  Writer Jez Butterworth’s new work, “The River,” centers
around fishing. Its three nameless characters are a man, the
blond girlfriend he invites to his log cabin by the river, and
the brunette who intermittently takes her place -- with the man
acting as if they were one and the same.  The cast, led by Dominic West (“The Wire”), is solid.
Tickets to the 80-minute play (held in the  Royal Court ’s 90-seat
studio space) are only available on the day: online or at the
box office.  “The River” ends Nov. 17 at the Royal Court Theatre,
Sloane Square, SW1W 8AS. Information: dial +44-20-7222-1234 or
see  http://www.royalcourttheatre.com/whats-on/the-river .  When at the Royal Court, the best place to eat is next door
at the Colbert. There’s just one catch: This new brasserie from
the Wolseley owners is packed day and night. Wise to book early.
Information:  http://www.colbertchelsea.com/  or +44-20-7730-2804.  If you prefer comedy, try  Shappi Khorsandi . She’s an
Iranian standup comedian and single mom. As if that weren’t
enough of a break with convention, she has a quirky private life
which she happily details, including a brief tryst with a 41-
year-old rocker who persuaded her to wear pigtails and a
schoolgirl uniform on the show poster.  There are passing references to hen nights and bridesmaids’
outfits, including the bottom-hugging gown donned by Pippa
Middleton for her sister Catherine’s wedding to  Prince William .  The show ends Saturday at the Soho Theatre, 21 Dean Street,
London W1D 3NE:  http://www.sohotheatre.com  or +44-20-7478-0100.  Sunday  She lives in a nudist colony, just had a baby, and named
herself after the slaughtered leader of a slave revolt.  Spartacus Chetwynd  is one of four hopefuls in this year’s
Turner Prize contemporary-art contest. A performance artist, she
puts on skits you can now see at Tate Britain. In one, men in
camouflage prop up a small oracle-puppet that whispers
premonitions such as “You will lose your mobile phone.”  Also in the running is Paul Noble, for his painstaking and
often scatological pencil drawings. Whatever you think of the
subject matter, the technical prowess is beyond dispute.  The  prize  is handed out Dec. 3 by actor Jude Law. The
exhibition ends Jan. 6 at Tate Britain. Information:
 http://www.tate.org.uk  or +44-20-7887-8888.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Greg Evans  on TV,  Craig Seligman  on books and  Jason Harper  on
cars.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 