-- Johnson & Johnson Settles 845 Levaquin Lawsuits
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2012-11-01T20:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/johnson-johnson-reaches-settlement-in-845-levaquin-cases.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  settled lawsuits
with about 845 plaintiffs who claimed the drugmaker didn’t
properly warn of the risks of tendon damage from its antibiotic
Levaquin.  The settlements were disclosed in an Oct. 30 filing in
federal court in Minneapolis, where a judge is overseeing about
1,900 Levaquin lawsuits. The initial agreements will be
completed in the next two weeks, the plaintiffs said in the
filing, which didn’t say how much Johnson & Johnson would pay.  According to the filing, Johnson & Johnson faces more than
3,400 state and federal lawsuits alleging tendon injuries from
the drug, including about 1,500 cases in New Jersey state court.  Johnson & Johnson has won three of the four Levaquin cases
that have gone to trial. It lost the first, a jury verdict for
$1.8 million in 2010. Settlement discussions are under way with
about 190 other plaintiffs, according to the filing.  “As part of reaching a settlement agreement, the parties
are also working toward developing a standardized settlement
protocol through which plaintiffs will submit cases for an
evaluation of whether, and to what extent, their cases are
compensable,” Johnson & Johnson and the plaintiffs said in the
filing.  ‘Settlement Discussions’  “There are settlement discussions under way,” William
Foster, a spokesman for New Brunswick, New Jersey-based Johnson
& Johnson, said in an e-mailed statement. “The current
settlement discussions reflect the strength of the company’s
evidence presented at several trials about a medicine that saves
lives.”  Terms of the agreements are confidential, he said.  Plaintiffs’ counsel Ronald Goldser didn’t immediately
return a call for comment on the settlements.  The plaintiffs claim that Johnson & Johnson and its Ortho-
McNeil Pharmaceutical unit failed to sufficiently warn that
Levaquin was linked to an increased risk of tendon damage in
elderly patients. The plaintiffs say Johnson & Johnson
downplayed the risks to boost sales.  Johnson & Johnson has denied any failure to warn. The
company will continue to dispute the allegations in lawsuits
brought by plaintiffs who aren’t involved in settlement talks,
Foster said.  ‘Timely Information’  “The evidence will show the company properly warned of the
risks of tendon events from use of Levaquin and acted
responsibly by providing appropriate and timely information
about Levaquin to the medical, scientific and regulatory
communities,” he said.  In 2008, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration required all
makers of antibiotics in Levaquin’s class, called
fluoroquinolones, to increase warnings about tendon ruptures.
The plaintiffs claim Johnson & Johnson should have enhanced the
warning before the FDA required it.  The federal lawsuits are combined in In re Levaquin
Products Liability Litigation, 08-md-01943, U.S. District Court,
District of Minnesota ( Minneapolis ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Hawkins in Minneapolis at  hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  