-- New Jersey Digs Out From Sandy’s Deadly Devastation
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g ,   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/n-j-sandy-death-toll-rises-to-12-as-temperatures-decline.html
Governor  Chris Christie , viewing
devastation in northern New Jersey, declared that it was time to
“return life back to normal” following superstorm Sandy’s
destruction, which brought death to at least 12 in the state.  The Republican rescinded an evacuation order for 11 towns
on the southern shore’s barrier islands and sent state police to
one of the north coast’s hardest-hit areas, to prevent looting.
Sandy smashed entire oceanfront communities Oct. 29 and left
millions of residents in the dark.  Emergency workers removed downed trees and pumped out
floodwater around the state. About 1.7 million homes and
businesses remained without power at 2 p.m. with overnight
temperatures forecast to drop below 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4.4
Celsius). Sandy’s hurricane-force winds and flood tides produced
one of the worst natural disasters in  New Jersey  history.  “Now it’s about the next stage of it, which is to return
life back to normal,” Christie told Bergen County officials
alongside him as they surveyed the damage in the town of
Moonachie yesterday. “That’s what we have to do now.”  Limited commuter trains may return to three NJ Transit
lines today. Power outages were down from 2.04 million, about
half of New Jersey, Oct. 31. Sandy’s winds and floods blacked
out about two-thirds of the state as it tore through seaside
resort towns and roared into  Pennsylvania .  Ruined Mess  Before Christie arrived in Moonachie, on the east side of
Teterboro Airport, 35-year-old Michelle Tattoli was clearing her
parents’ Lincoln Place house of mattresses, a stroller and toy
chest, luggage and a refrigerator -- all of it ruined by
floodwaters more than 2 feet (0.6 meter) deep. Her folks were
vacationing in  Italy  and trying to get home, said the resident
of Union, about 20 miles away.  “Their whole first floor is basically destroyed,” Tattoli
said. “It’s soaked in that disgusting water and it smells like
a fish store in there.”  Christie, 50, walked through the neighborhood, where about
100 residents, many in sweatpants or jeans, paused from cleaning
up to greet him. As Sandy blasted through, surging waters from
the Hackensack River had swept into the town. National Guard
troops had joined emergency workers to rescue 1,000 people.  On the state’s northern barrier islands, pounded by Sandy’s
surf, state troopers were deployed to keep thieves at bay.
Attorney General Jeffrey Chiesa said in a statement that there
were no reports of “extensive” looting.  Springsteen Territory  About 30 detectives from the state criminal justice
division patrolled in Monmouth County, a coastal area south of
 New York  City that includes  Bruce Springsteen ’s Asbury Park. The
singer/songwriter now lives up the shore in Rumson.  Among the state’s dozen casualties, two were found in
Newark, New Jersey’s largest city. The teenage sisters died from
carbon-monoxide poisoning caused by the improper use of a
generator, according to police and a statement from Mayor  Cory Booker ’s office.  A Hudson County woman dependent on supplemental oxygen
suffocated when the power went out, according to Mary Goepfert,
an Emergency Management Office spokeswoman. The victim was found
dead by her caregiver.  In Union County, an elderly woman died after falling down
stairs in the dark. Other deaths were attributed to drowning and
falling trees.  Damage Assessments  Authorities haven’t assessed damage costs and don’t know
when those figures may be available, Goepfert said. A day after
the storm crashed through his state, Christie called the losses
“almost incalculable.”  On the Ocean County island where episodes of the MTV show
“ Jersey Shore ” have been shot, the Seaside Heights boardwalk
lay in ruins, its roller coaster partially submerged.  Authorities blocked residents who had fled from returning
to their wrecked homes. Some of the houses had been consumed by
fire as recently as yesterday, when natural-gas lines ruptured.  In all, 6,300 people, many from  barrier islands  between the
Atlantic Ocean and Barnegat Bay, along the state’s central
coast, remained in state-run shelters yesterday. Residents of 11
towns on barrier islands in Cape May and Atlantic counties,
where damage wasn’t as severe, were allowed to return home.  Casino executives in Atlantic City, the second-largest U.S.
gambling center, trailing only  Las Vegas , sought to reopen
today. Christie, who toured affected areas by helicopter with
President  Barack Obama  Oct. 31, said he couldn’t estimate when
the venues might reopen. Power was still out in some city
neighborhoods and a boil-water advisory remained in effect.  Recovery Hurdles  “There’s a variety of problems,” Christie told reporters
at a briefing in Moonachie. “We have to get over the power
hurdle and the water hurdle first.”  Atlantic City, with about 40,000 residents, has been
central to Christie’s economic-revival strategy since he took
office in January 2010. Cleaning and repair crews cleared debris
and shattered pieces of the boardwalk, America’s first raised
wooden oceanside promenade, from streets as bulldozers plowed
sand into dirty brown piles.  “I never thought it was going to be like this in a million
years,” Philip Weinberg, the 58-year-old owner of Mel’s
Furniture on Atlantic Avenue, said inside his store. Floodwaters
ruined his carpets and a new heating system. He hired local
residents to pull up the carpet and stack its pieces outside in
5-foot-high piles.  Romney Surrogate  Following their flyover, Christie praised Obama, a
Democrat, for his administration’s response to the storm. The
governor has often been a surrogate for Republican  Mitt Romney ,
Obama’s White House challenger on Nov. 6.  “We’re going to be here for the long haul,” Obama said at
the Brigantine Beach Community Center near Atlantic City.
“We’re not going to tolerate any bureaucracy.”  The Pentagon is flying in 17 planes, packed with more than
600 tons of power-restoration equipment, vehicles and crews to
run them, from  California . The flights are a response to
requests from the  Federal Emergency Management Agency , according
to Defense Department spokesman  George Little .  The equipment includes 62 trucks and 10 civilian experts
from  Southern California Edison (EIX) , a utility based in Rosemead,
near  Los Angeles . The aid was due to arrive on board five C-5
and 12 C-17 cargo planes yesterday at the Stewart Air National
Guard base in Newburgh, New York, Little said.  Trains Resume  Sandy damaged 25 percent of the rail cars operated by NJ
Transit, Christie said. The organization runs the biggest
statewide public-transportation network in the U.S. Limited
service was expected today on the Northeast Corridor, North
Jersey Coast and Raritan Valley lines, according to a statement
from Christie’s office.  Drivers from New Jersey faced hour-plus delays at  Manhattan 
bridges yesterday as police at checkpoints turned away cars with
fewer than three passengers. New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
imposed the requirement to reduce congestion in the city, where
buses replaced subways and more commuters drove to work since
trains were knocked out by Sandy. The mayor is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Many New Jersey gasoline stations were shut by power
outages. Those that remained operating drew blocks-long lines of
customers seeking to fill their tanks, to keep vehicles and
generators running.  Diesel Spill  About 200 emergency responders were cleaning up a diesel-
fuel spill, estimated at 336,000 gallons, in Arthur Kill, the
waterway between New Jersey and  New York City ’s Staten Island,
according to Larry Ragonese, a spokesman for the state
Environmental Protection Department. Sandy’s storm surge raised
and ruptured a tank, he said.  In Little Egg Harbor, about 10 miles north of Atlantic
City, major damage was done to about 50 of the 130 vessels at
Great Bay Marina, according to Tom Paxton, 64, who’s owned the
business for decades and lives on the property. All of his 139
slips were damaged, if not destroyed, he said.  “We have a good bunch of volunteers, and they’re cleaning
up,” Paxton said. As he spoke, his voice choked up and he put
his arm on his gray pickup truck for support. His daughter,
Jackie Paxton Adams, 28, hugged him.  “We’ve been here 40 years, got through a few hurricanes
and we never had any idea this could happen,” Paxton said,
after a pause.  On East Bay Avenue in Barnegat, 15 miles north, Scott
Nevins, 38, got 18 inches of water in the garage of his three-
story house. Next door, a one-story home’s foundation was gone.  “I’m more than thrilled, compared to what happened to
other people,” he said.  In Hoboken, across the Hudson River from Manhattan,
floodwaters that were as high as 4 feet after the storm had
mostly receded by 8 a.m. yesterday in the western section of the
city. National Guard troops that arrived Oct. 31 had evacuated
thousands trapped in their homes in that area.  “We had 42 inches of water in our garage,” said David
Long, 35, as he paused in a walk down Clinton Street looking for
something that had sailed away from his home with the
floodwaters. “It may be at sea by now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  