-- N.J. Suffering Sandy Decides Biggest College Bond: Muni Credit
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-11-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/n-j-suffering-sandy-decides-biggest-college-bond-muni-credit.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
and lawmakers are pushing for the state’s first general-
obligation bond issue for higher education in almost 25 years in
a bid to staunch the nation’s biggest exodus of college
students.  Voters in the 11th-most populous state, devastated by
 Hurricane Sandy  this week, are set to decide Nov. 6 on a $750
million bond for college construction. The Republican governor
and legislators of both parties say it would create almost
10,000 jobs and add $715 million to a state economy that ranked
47th in terms of growth last year by the federal  Bureau of
Economic Analysis .  Residents go to the polls as the state’s borrowing costs
are close to  record lows , data compiled by Bloomberg show. For
investors, the bond would have appeal as  New Jersey  has the
second-highest tax burden among U.S. states and has been an
infrequent issuer of general obligations, said Matt Dalton at
Belle Haven Investments Inc. in  White Plains , New York.  “You won’t have any trouble seeing that deal get placed,”
said Dalton, who manages $1.2 billion in munis as chief
executive officer at Belle Haven.  Record Authorization  The bond vote comes after Sandy slammed into the New Jersey
coast Oct. 29, damaging seaside resort towns and railroads and
causing at least eight deaths in the state. While President
 Barack Obama  has declared a “major disaster” in the state,
clearing the way for federal assistance, the storm’s cost is
still being tallied.  The state constitution requires voter approval for general-
obligation debt, which amounts to $2.6 billion, compared with
$31.2 billion in appropriation borrowings as of June 30, 2011,
according to a state debt report. This will be the biggest
general-obligation bond ever submitted to voters, according to
 Andrew Pratt , a spokesman for the state treasurer.  Debt of New Jersey issuers has  trailed a rally  in top-rated
munis in the past year. Yet at about  2.48 percent , yields on 10-
year securities of the state and its localities are within a
quarter-percentage point of a record low set in February,
Bloomberg data show.  “We need to do this,” Christie said at a town-hall
meeting Oct. 25 in Washington Township, Warren County. “I am
very reluctant. I am not a guy who’s been borrowing a lot of
money in this job.”  Leaving Home  New Jersey exports more first-year college students than
any other state, with almost  35,000  leaving in 2010, according
to the National Center for Education Statistics.  “We don’t help them finish their lives here,” Senate
President Steve Sweeney, a Democrat from West Deptford, said
Oct. 22 in Trenton, at a conference of the New Jersey Bankers
Association. “When they leave, most don’t come back.”  Christie signed legislation to put the spending on the
ballot after it passed in the assembly 76-1 and in the senate,
38-1. Both dissenters were Republicans. Democrats control both
houses.  The lawmakers see the borrowing as a way to stimulate the
economy in New Jersey, where unemployment reached 9.9 percent in
August, a 35-year high. The state faces revenue shortfalls and a
possible credit downgrade from  Standard & Poor’s .  New Jerseyans  typically approve  capital expenditures . In
2009 they authorized $400 million for open space and historic
preservation. In 2007 they agreed to a similar $200 million
issue and rejected a $450 million proposal to fund stem-cell
research, even though polls showed it was favored to pass.  Poll Support  The college borrowing is favored in surveys affiliated with
Fairleigh Dickinson University,  Rutgers University  and Richard
Stockton College.  In a survey released Oct. 18, the Stockton Polling
Institute, at Richard Stockton College in Galloway Township, New
Jersey, found 72 percent of 811 likely voters supported the
spending. The poll was conducted Oct. 12-18 and had a margin of
error of 3.5 percent.  The school bond is opposed by the New Jersey chapter of
Americans for Prosperity, which seeks less taxes and smaller
government, and Senator Michael Doherty, a Republican from
Washington Township, Warren County.  The New Jersey Educational Facilities Authority, formed in
1966 to facilitate borrowing for public and private colleges,
has $411.4 million in state-backed  financings , 87 percent for
capital improvements, according to its website.  ‘Not True’  “Colleges have been doing a lot of building, a lot of
borrowing, over the past 20 years,” Doherty said by phone Oct.
26. “For them to say the state’s done nothing for 24 years is
just not true.”  The state’s most recent general-obligation borrowing for
college capital projects, in 1988, was $350 million. The $750
million issue, available to more than 50 public and private
colleges, would be limited to classroom construction and
purchases of laboratory and technical equipment.  In the $3.7 trillion tax-exempt market yesterday, yields on
benchmark 10-year munis were little changed at 1.69 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Following is a pending sale:  DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA plans to sell $775 million in income-
tax revenue bonds as soon as Nov. 14, according to Moody’s
Investors Service, which rates the debt Aa1, second-best. (Added
Nov. 1)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  