-- Navy SEALS Film Pumps Pathos for Obama; Shoots: TV Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-11-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/navy-seals-film-pumps-pathos-for-obama-shoots-tv-review.html
Navy SEALS and  Harvey Weinstein  have
at least one thing in common: Great timing.  If it weren’t airing two nights before Election Day,
National Geographic Channel’s passable, Weinstein-produced
“ SEAL Team Six: The Raid on Osama Bin Laden ” would have come
and gone with remarkable stealth.  Arriving two months before Kathryn Bigelow’s similarly
themed big-screen “ Zero Dark Thirty ,” “SEAL” recounts the
hunting and killing of the 9/11 mastermind.  Trailing better-told published accounts, “SEAL” snared
publicity for its scheduling and the financial backing of
producer, hype-master and  Barack Obama  supporter Weinstein.  A hodgepodge of historical re-enactment, faux-documentary
noodling and snippets of Obama news footage, “SEAL”
unashamedly accentuates the President’s leadership.  It feels as fresh as a two-year-old press conference.  Director John Stockwell (“ Blue Crush ”), with an
uninspired script by Kendall Lampkin, relies on generic action
music, ticking clock flourishes and recruitment-ad pathos to
pump up emotion.  Score Settling  To move things along, characters, including Kathleen
Robertson (so good on “Boss”) as a CIA official intent on
settling America’s 9/11 score, occasionally speak directly to an
off-camera interviewer.  “Being obsessed is like having a one-way affair,” she
confides about her Bin Laden mission, sounding like a cut-rate
 Claire Danes . “It’s secret and you can’t stop thinking about
him and you’re always alone, and you don’t know how it will
end.”  The SEALs fare no better. The two main commandoes (Anson
Mount and Cam Gigandet) bicker over some personal rivalry, a
half-baked storyline that’s abandoned long before they reach
Abbottabad.  “SEAL Team Six: The Raid on  Osama Bin Laden ” airs on
National Geographic Channel on Sunday, Nov. 4 at 8 p.m.  New York 
time. Rating: **  Photo Finish  Photographer Eros Hoagland, standing among a small crowd of
onlookers, has just watched a wounded man die a slow, bloody
death on a dusty Mexican street.  “I wasn’t there to mourn for him,” says Hoagland, one of
four war photographers profiled in HBO’s fine new documentary
miniseries “Witness.” “I wasn’t there to console his family.
I was there to document.”  Any notion of war photographers as thrill-seeking
adrenaline junkies is undone by “Witness,” produced by  Michael Mann  and David Frankham.  Forget  Oliver Stone ’s high-octane “Salvador” (a film
partly inspired by Hoagland’s father John Hoagland, a
photographer gunned down in El Salvador in 1984). The
journalists profiled in “Witness” seem to carry the world’s
weight inside their camera bags.  The first and fourth episodes follow Hoagland to,
respectively, Juarez and Rio de Janeiro, where he documents the
drug wars. In Rio he also covers the state’s efforts to clear
(and, Hoagland argues, socially cleanse) the city before the
2016  Olympic Games .  The second episode, “Witness: Libya,” profiles Michael
Christopher Brown, a photographer wounded in the same mortar
attack that killed photographers Tim Hetherington and Chris
Hondros in April, 2011.  Sudan’s Children  But no episode is more unsettling than “Witness:  South
Sudan ,” the third installment, chronicling French photographer
Veronique de Viguerie’s expedition into the Sudanese bush with a
rag-tag militia fighting warlord  Joseph Kony ’s ruthless Lord’s
Resistance Army.  The LRA’s use of child soldiers -- and “Witness” doesn’t
shy from grisly images -- seems to touch something in de
Viguerie, who is visibly pregnant during her assignment. At one
point she intercedes to comfort a wounded boy.  “As a journalist you should not do it,” she says. “As a
human being, what would you do?”  “Witness” airs Mondays in November on HBO at 9 p.m. New
York time. Rating: ****  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Lance
Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:  Greg Evans  at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 