-- Next Marilyn Sought to Sell Emeralds Over Diamonds: Commodities
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-11-01T13:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/next-marilyn-sought-to-sell-emeralds-over-diamonds-commodities.html
Ian Harebottle is searching for a
global celebrity to do for emeralds what  Marilyn Monroe  and
 Audrey Hepburn  did for diamonds.  The chief executive officer of  Gemfields Plc (GEM) , the biggest
producer of the green stones, said he wants “to bring in an A-
lister to be the face of emeralds,” mirroring what the
actresses did in past decades that helped then-monopoly producer
De Beers sell diamonds as symbols of lasting love. Clear gems
still dominate today’s $21 billion precious stone industry.  Rarer than diamonds yet cheaper, emeralds are gaining among
consumers. At current growth rates they may take more than 20
percent of their competitor’s market share within two decades,
according to the trade group the International Diamond
Manufacturers Association. Gemfields’ share price has gained 78
percent this year.  “Sometimes rarity is not an asset,” Harebottle said in an
interview. “You need the volumes of supply, which is what we’re
doing.”  Harebottle’s strategy, from buying African ruby and emerald
mines to leveraging iconic names, is supported by Brian Gilbertson, ex-CEO of the world’s largest miner,  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  Gilbertson heads an investment fund that licensed the
Faberge brand name to London-based Gemfields and bought a
controlling stake in 2007. His son, Sean, is on the board.  High-quality emerald prices increased more than 10-fold in
the past three years, out pacing a 21 percent gain in diamonds,
according to calculations based on Gemfields and WWW
International Diamond Consultants Ltd. data. Still the red,
green and blue stones comprise just 10 percent of global gem
sales and lack standardized pricing.  Rare White  A 0.9 carat round diamond that’s internally flawless and of
rare white color would cost about $7,000, according to online
retailer  Blue Nile . A round emerald with “excellent clarity”
of the same size would cost about $3,500, according to  Africa
Gems , an online retailer of the stones.  Gemfields’ market value increased to about 140 million
pounds ($225 million) this year as prices increased for its
Zambian output. That’s where it owns 75 percent of the Kagem
emerald mine, the world’s largest. It also has 75 percent of the
Montepuez ruby field in  Mozambique . The biggest investor is the
Rox unit of Pallinghurst Resources Ltd., a Guernsey, U.K.-based
fund that invests in natural resources whose chairman is
Gilbertson. Rox owns 63 percent of Gemfields.  The company lacks the heft of the 20th century De Beers
model, in which a single firm mined, marketed and largely
controlled wholesale prices. Colored stones are a fragmented
industry that’s largely supplied by individual miners --
sometimes parents and children -- across about 10 countries.  Halle Berry  At the same time it has benefited from singer and clothing
purveyor Jessica Simpson, actress  Halle Berry  and the Duchess of
Cambridge receiving engagement rings containing colored stones.  Global imports of rough emeralds, rubies and sapphires
totaled about $2.2 billion in 2011, according to the United
Nation’s Comtrade data. Rough diamond sales totaled about $18.9
billion, according to BMO Capital Markets research.  “During the past three years, these other gemstone
categories have taken away yet another half percent from our
market share, of our display space, of our sales in the jewelry
retail shops,” Moti Ganz, president of the  diamond
manufacturers group , said in a speech at the World Diamond
Congress on Oct. 15.  De Beers  dropped so-called generic marketing of the stones
when its monopoly was ended after losing a 10-year legal battle
with the U.S. over price-fixing in 2004.  Got Milk  Polished diamond prices have declined for five straight
quarters as Asian purchases slowed and the euro region debt
crisis eroded demand, according to PolishedPrices.com data.
Rough, or uncut, prices have fallen for the past two quarters
and are heading for the first annual decline since 2008 after
rising by more than 20 percent in each of the past three years.  The colored gem market was about equal in size with the
diamond industry in the 1940s. Generic marketing is where
participants buy advertising that benefits them all -- such as
the “Got Milk” campaign in the U.S. for the  dairy industry .  De Beers, the world’s biggest producer, created the
industry and developed the “Diamonds are Forever” tagline that
was voted as the best slogan of the 20th century by Advertising
Age. Monroe’s recording of “Diamonds are a Girl’s Best Friend”
and Hepburn’s “Breakfast at Tiffany’s” film helped cement an
allure in consumers’ minds, spurring a boom in demand and prices
that were underpinned by cartel.  Diamond Champion  “For a long time De Beers was the champion, they would say
‘a diamond is forever’ and the whole market could copy that,”
Harebottle said. “At some point in time De Beers got a bit
blinkered and they said ‘A De Beers diamond is a De Beers
diamond.’ It created confusion in the diamond place and I don’t
think it was good for diamonds.”  The diamond industry attempted to re-launch generic
marketing through the St Petersburg Initiative and the
International Diamond Board, though efforts were stymied as
disparate companies failed to come to an accord on who will bear
the cost.  “Not all people were willing to do their part,” said
Stephen Lussier,  executive director  at De Beers in  London . “For
those things to work everybody has to be on board and if there
are any free riders then people lose confidence.”  “Having been down that road a couple of times we would
take some persuading,” Lussier said. We’re more focused on
doing it in a way that has more direct benefits for us.’’  Advertising Spending  Gemfields, which says it currently pays for about 70
percent of global emerald advertising, has less concern about
taking the brunt. “If I spend $1 and it makes me $2 I’m going
to do it. The fact that people free carry, I don’t mind, so long
as it benefits us,” said Harebottle. His company plans to boost
its marketing budget to as much as $4 million next year from
about $1.5 million this year and $150,000 in 2009.  De Beers, which spends about half what it used to on
marketing will spend in the “hundreds of millions,” said
Lussier.  “There is the opportunity for other gemstones to undertake
category marketing, but I think that the difference is that the
industry, including the supply side, is more fragmented,” said
Anish Aggarwal, a partner at industry consulting firm Gemdax.
“If there is clear industry leadership, they will have a
chance.”  Harebottle sees emerald prices, which have avoided the 18
percent slump in diamond prices in the past six months,
increasing at about 10 percent to 15 percent a year over the
next decade. Gemfields produces about 20 percent of the world’s
emeralds and plans to expand that to about 30 percent, while
boosting more valuable ruby output to a similar share.  Powerful Force  “Clearly the historic De Beers marketing was an extremely
powerful force in building markets from scratch into what they
are today,” said Lussier, who is also chief executive officer
of Forevermark, De Beers’ diamond brand. “De Beers can do its
part, but it alone is not enough. It’s important that the
overall marketing expenditure by the industry maintains the sort
of level when De Beers was doing it all for them.”  While the growing popularity of colored gems is reflected
in the shop windows on London’s Bond Street, diamonds are still
the first choice of consumers who are better educated about the
stones.  “Colored stones are mainly bought by more experienced
customers who already have diamond pieces,” said Richard
Campbell, whose family runs the jeweler Lucie Campbell on New
Bond Street. “It’s incumbent on the buyer to have confidence in
the jeweler or their own knowledge.”  Lucie Campbell’s display is dotted with emerald, ruby and
sapphire jewelry, including the shop’s most expensive piece, a
pair of 22.45 carat and 21.66 carat emerald  earrings  set in
platinum and surrounded by diamonds. The display carries no
prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  