-- Nigeria, Islamists Create Violence Trap, Amnesty Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-11-01T18:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/nigerian-islamists-and-army-create-violence-trap-amnesty-says.html
Attacks by Islamist militants and
abuses by the Nigerian government have trapped civilians in “a
vicious cycle of violence,”  Amnesty International  said.  The Boko Haram group’s bombings and gun attacks as part of
a campaign to impose Islamic law in  Africa ’s top oil producer
may constitute crimes against humanity, the London-based rights
group said in a report  today . It also accused the Nigerian
security forces of perpetrating “serious human rights
violations in their response.” The military has denied the
charges.  “The cycle of attacks and counter attacks has been marked
by unlawful violence on both sides with devastating consequences
for the human rights of the people trapped in the middle,”
Amnesty said in the report.  Attacks by Boko Haram, which started its insurgency in
2009, have killed more than 1,000 people since 2010, Amnesty
said. Boko Haram has claimed responsibility for bombings and gun
attacks in the mainly Muslim north and the capital, Abuja,
targeting churches, government buildings, police, soldiers,
officials and Muslims who disagree with the group.  President Goodluck Jonathan in January called the
insurgency a more serious threat to Africa’s biggest oil
producer than the 1967-1970 Biafran civil war.  “The group has killed Muslim and Christian clerics and
worshipers, politicians, journalists and lawyers, as well as
police and soldiers,” Amnesty said. “Attacks targeting
civilians demonstrate disregard for the right to life.”  Punish Perpetrators  The Nigerian government has failed to protect the
population by investigating and punishing the perpetrators of
violence, with few perpetrators being tried and convicted,
Amnesty said. Instead, the security forces are guilty of human
rights violations, it said.  “Witnesses interviewed by  Amnesty International  described
seeing people who were clearly no threat to life -– unarmed,
lying down or with their hands over their head or cooperating -–
shot at close range by the security forces,” Amnesty said in
the report.  “The report feels that the security forces are consistency
operating outside the law,”  Salil Shetty , Amnesty’s secretary
general, told reporters today in Abuja. “This is not the way to
counter terror. No crimes committed by Boko Haram, no human
rights violations committed by Boko Haram, can justify human
rights violations by security forces.”  No Record  The military in Borno state where Boko Haram started “has
no record of extra-judicial killings,” Sagir Musa, a spokesman
for the Joint Force in the region, said on Oct. 11. “The
Nigerian army is not trained to kill innocent civilians, but to
protect them, and that’s what they’ve been doing.”  The Nigerian police takes criticism of the force seriously,
and “has begun a comprehensive and critical study of the report
with a view to establishing its veracity and relevance vis-a-vis
our contemporary security challenges and needs,” police
spokesman Frank Mba said today in an e-mailed statement.  Amnesty said witnesses also reported seeing people
“summarily executed outside their homes, shot dead during
operations, after arrest, or beaten to death in detention or in
the street by security forces in Maiduguri,” Borno’s capital.  The response of the security forces “is not only illegal,
it is very likely to fuel the cycle of attack and counterattack,
exposing thousands of people to the risk of serious human rights
violations and abuses,” Amnesty said.  While the police “is deeply concerned over a key research
methodology” in the report, such as using unnamed sources,
“the Nigeria Police will continue to do everything humanly
possible to improve the capacity and efficiency of its service
delivery,” Mba said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  