-- Nordic Power for December Extends Losses to Reach 16-Week Low
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-11-01T15:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/nordic-power-for-december-extends-losses-to-reach-16-week-low.html
Power for delivery in December in the
Nordic region fell to the lowest in 16 weeks as forecasts for
rain indicated that an oversupply of water in the hydropower-
dependent area will increase.  Electricity for next month retreated 1.5 percent to 39.40
euros ($50.98) a megawatt-hour on Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s energy
exchange in Oslo, the lowest since July 12. The January through
March contract fell 0.4 percent to 40.45 euros.  The Nordic region generates more than half of its power by
running water through turbines. The amount of water stored in
reservoirs and in snow may total 8.2 terawatt-hours above the
seasonal average in the next two weeks, Markedskraft AS data on
Bloomberg show. That’s 0.3 terawatt-hour more than forecast
yesterday.  Power for baseload around-the-clock delivery tomorrow
averaged 33.66 euros a megawatt-hour following an auction on the
the Nord Pool Spot AS exchange in Oslo. That’s 1.7 percent lower
than the equivalent contract yesterday. Day-ahead prices may
average 37 euros a megawatt-hour next week, 2 euros higher than
an estimate for this week, Bixia AB,  Sweden ’s fourth-largest
power trading company, said yesterday in an e-mailed report.  The nuclear utilization rate from reactors in Sweden and
 Finland  may rise by 11 percentage points from today to 96
percentage points tomorrow, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on company websites.  Vattenfall AB expects full output tomorrow evening from its
Ringhals-2 unit, the company said today in a filing to Nord Pool
Spot. EON AG’s 1,400-megawatt Oskarshamn-3 reactor, Sweden’s
biggest nuclear plant, will reach full output tomorrow,
following an emergency stop yesterday, the company said today in
an exchange filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  