-- Nyet to Cigarettes and Beer Threatens Russia’s Kiosks
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-11-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/nyet-to-cigarettes-and-beer-threatens-russia-s-kiosks.html
Mikhail Shvedko keeps his eight
street-side kiosks in the Russian city of Lipetsk stocked with
cigarettes and beer for passers-by wanting to catch a buzz. With
the government planning to bar him from selling both, Shvedko
says he’ll be out of business.  “There’s nothing I can do other than shout curses against
the government,” said Shvedko, 50, whose shops employ 30 people
and count on smokes and brew for half of total sales. “They are
passing anti-people laws that ruin small businesses.”  In an attempt to stamp out smoking in the world’s second-
biggest tobacco market,  Russia  this week submitted a law to
parliament that would prohibit cigarette sales at the nation’s
175,000 kiosks and small shops. The rule is part of an anti-
smoking effort that would outlaw tobacco advertising as soon as
the law is passed -- possibly by yearend --  and  bar smoking in
public places from 2015.  An earlier law blocking the sale of beer at kiosks will
come into effect on Jan. 1, 17 years after a similar rule for
vodka.  Kiosk owners say the new regulations will put as many as 1
million people out of work and threaten an industry created from
communism’s collapse as entrepreneurs scrambled to sell newly
available goods.  Developed Retail Network  If Russians can no longer buy cigarettes at kiosks and
other small stores, they will likely do more shopping at
supermarkets run by the likes of  OAO Magnit (MGNT) ,  X5 Retail Group (FIVE) ,
 OAO Dixy Group, (DIXY)  and Metro AG, according to Boris Planer, chief
economist at  Planet Retail  in  Frankfurt .  A ban will be “a heavy blow for kiosks in urban areas,”
said Planer, who said Russian politicians are “trying to push
as much retail as possible into modern and controlled areas.”  As the economy and incomes have grown, Russia’s food retail
market has expanded an average of 17 percent annually since
2007, 14 times faster than in  Germany , according to data
compiled by  Alfa Bank . While a ban on sales of smokes and brew
at kiosks could give a lift to supermarkets, the benefit will be
barely felt at chains such as Magnit, where  sales  have been
increasing by more than 30 percent a year, VTB Capital
estimates.  Under the leadership of  Vladimir Putin  and  Dmitry Medvedev ,
Russia has cracked down on smoking and drinking. About 400,000
Russians die each year from diseases linked to smoking and half
a million are lost to alcohol-related causes.  Kiosks and small stores account for as much as 40 percent,
or about $7.8 billion, of Russian tobacco sales and 20 percent,
or $3.6 billion, of the nation’s beer spending, according to
Nielsen. The Russian food retail market was worth about $310
billion last year, with less than half coming from modern retail
chains and the rest from markets, kiosks and other independent
outlets.  ’Main Evil’  The government is singling out kiosks and other independent
retailers because it claims they make tobacco and beer easily
available to young people, who can’t legally buy either before
age 18.  “Kiosks are the main evil as teenagers can buy tobacco
there because it’s difficult for authorities to control these
small outlets,” Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets said on the
sidelines of a government meeting on the tobacco ban. “That’s
why we are limiting tobacco sales to supermarkets and large
stores, which are easier to monitor. I hope society will agree
and support this.”  Kiosks hold a special place in the retail history of modern
Russia. The  Soviet Union  had a narrow assortment of goods and
few stores, and even in cities multi-story apartments rarely had
retail space on the ground floor.  Communism’s Collapse  After the end of communism in 1991, entrepreneurs started
informal imports of goods like jeans, chewing gum, chocolate,
cigarettes and liquor. With little formal retail space
available, they started building kiosks along the streets.
Today, these constructions about the size of a shipping
container are ubiquitous, offering beer, smokes, and snacks.  With so many kiosks and slightly larger street-side stores
called pavilions -- which also sell staples such as sausage,
bread, and cheese -- Russia’s formal retail market remains
underdeveloped. The country has less than 500 square meters of
trading space per 1,000 citizens, just over a third the level in
Germany, according to the Coalition of Kiosk Owners.  The smoking ban isn’t the first effort to limit growth of
kiosks and pavilions. The governors of  St. Petersburg  and Moscow
have fought them in recent years on the grounds that they’re a
haven for tax cheats, they block sidewalks, and they’re ugly.
The number of kiosks in Moscow has fallen from 14,000 in 2010 to
8,500, according to the city government. St. Petersburg cut the
number of kiosk by 60 percent since 2004, to about 4,000.  ’Excessive’ Measures  Carlsberg A/S (CARLA)  estimates that about two-thirds of kiosks and
pavilions will disappear without beer sales and that their
volume will go to supermarkets, said Evgeny Schevchenko, the
vice-president for sales at Baltika Brewery, Carlsberg’s Russian
unit.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ,  British American Tobacco
Plc (BATS) , Japan Tobacco Inc. and Imperial Tobacco Group Plc have been
fighting the proposed law that includes the kiosk ban. The
companies have asked for smoking sections in bars and
restaurants, a continuation of sponsorships by tobacco brands,
and fewer restrictions on where smokes can be sold.  “We view measures such as cigarette sales bans in kiosks
as excessive,” said Alexander Lioutyi, head of corporate
affairs at cigarette maker BAT Russia. “This will lead to a
disappearance of tens of thousands of small businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  