-- Lockhart Says Fed Shouldn’t Tie Policy to Jobless Rate
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-11-01T16:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/lockhart-says-fed-shouldn-t-tie-policy-to-unemployment-rate.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the Fed shouldn’t tie policy to a
single data point like the unemployment rate and instead should
track broader measures of the job market.  “It’s appropriate to be cautious about relying on a single
indicator of labor market trends, for example the unemployment
rate, to determine whether the condition of substantial
improvement has been met,” Lockhart said today in a speech in
Chattanooga, Tennessee. An assessment of employment and the
economy needs to be “reinforced by other indicators.”  The Atlanta Fed chief on Oct. 24 voted with the  Federal
Open Market Committee  to continue buying $40 billion in mortgage
bonds each month, aiming to reduce 7.8 percent unemployment. The
central bank is also purchasing $45 billion of longer-term
Treasuries, in a securities-swap program called Operation Twist
scheduled to end in December.  The  unemployment rate  can be influenced by gains in part-
time jobs or by workers without jobs dropping out of the  labor
force  because they are discouraged, Lockhart said in remarks
prepared for a speech to the Chattanooga Downtown Rotary.  In recent months unemployment has fallen, while “job
growth has hardly begun to build positive momentum,” he said.  Fed district bank presidents have voiced differing views on
the benefit of more easing, with Minneapolis Fed President
 Narayana Kocherlakota  saying on Oct. 30 that policy was “too
tight” even after record accommodation. Richmond Fed President
 Jeffrey Lacker , after voting against the Oct. 24 FOMC statement,
said additional stimulus could cause “an unwanted increase in
inflation.”  Stay Low  Kocherlakota has said  interest rates  should stay low until
unemployment falls below 5.5 percent, so long as the outlook for
inflation does not breach 2.25 percent.  Charles Evans , the
president of the Chicago Fed, has said the central bank should
promise to keep rates low until the unemployment rate falls to 7
percent, so long as inflation does not exceed 3 percent.  U.S. stocks rose today after the U.S. Labor Department
reported the number of initial claims for  unemployment benefits 
fell last week and the  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S.
factory index rose in October. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gained 1 percent to 1,427.14 at 12:32 p.m. in New York.  Lockhart also said the  U.S. economy  has been growing at
about a 2 percent rate, “stuck in a slow-growth mode,” with
inflation close to the FOMC’s explicit target of 2 percent.  ‘Most Plausible’  “I think the most plausible forecast is continued modest
growth with gradual employment gains,” Lockhart said. The
outlook could be changed by “downside risks of economic
shocks” as well as the possibility of improved performance if
risks ease over time, he said.  The Fed is trying to spur a weak recovery. Gross domestic
product climbed by 2 percent in the third quarter after 1.3
percent in the prior quarter, down from 4.1 percent in the
fourth quarter of last year.  Central bankers will know more about the job market
tomorrow, when the Labor Department issues employment data for
October, the last monthly report before the Nov. 6 presidential
election. The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
survey calls for 125,000 jobs to be added in October and for the
unemployment rate to rise to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said the U.S. economy is
vulnerable to the so-called fiscal cliff, the more than $600
billion of tax increases and spending cuts that will kick in
automatically at the end of the year unless Congress acts. The
 Congressional Budget Office  said in an Aug. 22 economic report
that fiscal tightening of that magnitude could cause a
recession.  Lockhart, a former Georgetown University professor, has led
the Atlanta Fed since 2007. The Atlanta Fed district includes
Alabama, Florida, Georgia, and portions of Louisiana,
Mississippi, and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  