-- One57’s Partial Crane Collapse Sparks Diplomatic Dispute
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-11-01T20:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/one57-s-partial-crane-collapse-sparks-diplomatic-dispute.html
International guests of a Manhattan
hotel that was evacuated after the partial collapse of a crane
over West 57th Street gathered near the site this morning,
pleading for access to their clothes, money and passports.  About 50 travelers from Ireland, the U.K.,  Australia ,
 France  and  Ecuador  congregated at barricades at 57th Street and
Sixth Avenue. They sought entry to the Salisbury Hotel in a
coordinated attempt to work through their local consulates and
override police restrictions.  New York City police and a representative from Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s office responded to the gathering and denied
the visitors access to the hotel. Representatives from each
consulate were summoned to the scene and asked to help their
nationals secure emergency passports and arrange to have their
belongings shipped home, said Bradford Billet, a deputy
commissioner with the mayor’s Commission for the United Nations,
Consular Corps and Protocol.  “The consulates gave out bad information to their
nationals so they all came at the exact same time,” said
Billet, who met with hotel guests on the street.  The construction crane at the luxury One57 condominium
project partially collapsed on Oct. 29 as gusts from superstorm
Sandy pounded  Manhattan . Buildings near the site at 157 W. 57th
St., including  Le Parker Meridien  hotel and the Salisbury, were
evacuated, and nearby streets remain closed as the crane’s boom
hovers like a dagger aimed at 57th Street.  Police Escort  Hours after the gathering, city officials decided to allow
people onto the closed block to gather belongings. Starting at
about 5 p.m., police will escort people into the area for five-
minute increments to take what they need, said Detective Kelly
Ort, a police department spokeswoman.  City engineers are devising a method for removing or
securing the crane’s dangling boom, a process that may take
weeks, following multiple trips this week to the the top floors
of the 90-story luxury development. The tower, being developed
by Extell Development Co., is poised to be New York’s tallest
residential building.  Even after the area is opened to residents and workers,
sporadic street closings may continue for weeks as parts of the
crane are removed and new components hoisted, Mayor Bloomberg
said yesterday at a news conference.  “We’ll do the best we can,” Bloomberg said. “We do
expect the weather to cooperate and we’ll be able to tie it
down, which will allow us to dramatically reduce the size of the
area that you can’t go in.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  Leave Immediately  Employees at the Salisbury, which is adjacent to One57 and
almost in the crane’s shadow, went door to door on the afternoon
of Oct. 29, telling guests to leave immediately, said John
Rippon, 65, who’s from  Adelaide , Australia, and was staying at
the hotel during a monthlong tour of North America.  “We got out -- and all too quickly, because most of us
left Visa cards, passports, money in the safe,” said Rippon,
who said he also left his arthritis medication behind. “A lot
of these people are penniless. It’s the most appalling state
we’ve found ourselves in because we evacuated so quickly.”  Salisbury guests were taken to the basement of the  Ritz-
Carlton hotel  near Central Park as the storm gathered force,
then moved to a shelter at an Upper West Side high school,
before being offered rooms at the Milburn Hotel on West 76th
Street, Rippon said.  “We’re walking around in the clothes we’re standing in,”
said Margaret Flood, 57, who’s visiting from Maynooth, Ireland.
“We’re booking into a hotel with two plastic bags.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  