-- Most Emerging Stocks Rise After China PMI Data
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-11-01T21:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/most-emerging-stocks-rise-after-china-pmi-data.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the most
in a week as data showed manufacturing in  China  and the U.S.
expanded, boosting the outlook for the world’s largest
economies.  Petrochemicals maker Braskem SA led Brazilian producers
higher amid a rally in global commodities prices.  Titan
Industries Ltd. (TTAN) ,  India ’s largest branded-jewelry maker, surged
to a record high after second-quarter profit beat estimates.
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co., China’s
second-biggest maker of construction equipment, gained 3.4
percent in  Hong Kong .  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  slid to the lowest in
almost eight months on speculation it may need to recall some
vehicles in the U.S.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index gained 0.4 percent to
999.63 at the close of trading in  New York . A purchasing
managers’ index in China signaled that manufacturing expanded
for the first time in three months, adding to signs the economy
is rebounding after a seven-quarter slowdown. The  Institute for
Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index rose to 51.7 in October
from 51.5 a month earlier, surpassing a median estimate of 51 by
88 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The Chinese PMI was better than expected, above 50, which
is the threshold between contraction and expansion. The market
is looking to China, and the PMI came in handy,” said Darwin Dib, the chief strategist at CM Capital Markets Asset Management
in Sao Paulo. The U.S. PMI and jobs numbers were also “slightly
above forecast,” Dib said.  Fewer Americans than forecast filed for jobless claims last
week, and companies expanded payrolls in October by the most in
eight months, data from the Labor Department and the ADP
Research Institute showed today.  EM ETF Rises  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index, an exchange-traded
fund of developing-nation stocks, gained 1.6 percent to $41.82
in New York, after slumping 0.4 percent in October. The  Chicago
Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, dropped 6.3 percent, the most in more than a month.  Brazil ’s Bovespa gained 2.3 percent, the most in seven
weeks, as gauges of financial, information technology and
material stocks advanced more than 2.2 percent. Moscow’s Micex
Index rose 0.4 percent and Indian stocks advanced 0.3 percent,
led by consumer shares.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  surged 1.7 percent, the most
in three weeks and the biggest gain among benchmark indexes in
Asia Pacific. Taiwan’s Taiex index rose 0.2 percent, erasing an
earlier loss of 1.6 percent, on speculation government funds may
have supported stocks after the decline in the morning.  Turkish Yields  The  Kuwait Stock Exchange Index (KWSEIDX)  slid 1.9 percent to its
lowest close since August 2004, after the  Interior Ministry  said
it rounded up several “rioters and inciters of violence” late
last night during a protest march against the detention of an
opposition activist. The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  dropped as much
as 1.1 percent and ended down 0.3 percent, after inflation
accelerated in October.  Turkish bonds rose, with yields on two-year benchmark debt
falling for a fourth day to the weakest level since January
2011, after the Treasury cut its domestic borrowing target for
November. The Czech koruna was the biggest decliner among
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the
central bank cut its main policy rate to close to zero. The
Hungarian forint strengthened 0.6 percent versus the euro in its
third day of gains.  Gauges of utility and financial stocks in the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index (MXEF)  gained at least 0.8 percent, the most among 10
 industry  groups. MSCI’s measure of developing-nation equities
has climbed 9.1 percent this year, trailing an 11 percent
increase in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed countries. The
emerging-markets measure trades at 11.4 times estimated profit,
compared with the MSCI World’s 13.3, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  China Volume  Trading volumes were higher than average in China, while
they fell in  Russia , Brazil, India and  South Korea . About 23
percent more shares of Shanghai Composite Index companies
changed hands today compared with the 30-day average, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Volume was 17 percent lower than
the average for the Micex Index and 28 percent for the Kospi
index. It was 8 percent higher for the BSE India Sensitive
Index, and 4.8 percent lower for the Bovespa index.  The National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing’s PMI index rose to 50.2 in October
from 49.8 in September, matching the median estimate of 30
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A number above 50 indicates
expansion.  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in October at a faster
pace than projected as orders and production picked up. A report
from ADP Research Institute showed that U.S. companies added
158,000 jobs in October, more than forecast.  Zoomlion, Titan  Zoomlion (1157)  added 3.4 percent, the biggest jump since Oct. 18,
gaining for a second day. Braskem rose 5.8 percent on the
Bovespa. Pulp producer Fibria Celulose SA gained 4.5 percent,
the most in seven weeks. The UBS Bloomberg CMCI index of 27 raw
materials rose 0.4 percent.  Titan Industries gained 10 percent to a record high after
reporting second-quarter profit of 1.8 billion rupees, beating a
median estimate of 1.7 billion by analysts. The company was
raised to “Buy” from “Hold” at Antique Stock Broking by
equity analyst Abhijeet Kundu.  Hyundai Slumps  Hyundai Motor, South Korea’s largest automaker, dropped 3.8
percent to the lowest close since March 12, dragging consumer
shares. Speculation that the company may announce a recall in
the U.S. drove the shares lower, Lee Sang Hyun, analyst at NH
Investment & Securities Co., said by phone. Hyundai Motor
declined to comment in an e-mail response to questions.  OAO Novatek slid 7.8 percent in Moscow trading after the
Russian natural-gas producer lost a gas supply contract to OAO
Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer. Rosneft jumped 5.9
percent to the highest since June 2011 as it won a contract to
supply natural gas to state-run OAO Inter RAO UES’s power
generators from 2016, replacing Novatek, according to e-mailed
statements by Rosneft and Inter RAO.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 292, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  