-- Housing Recovery May Help Obama Even as Remedies Short
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2012-11-01T16:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/housing-recovery-may-help-obama-even-as-remedies-short.html
President  Barack Obama  is getting a
boost from a damaged part of the U.S. economy that his policies
have done little to repair.  A long-awaited housing recovery is helping lift consumer
sentiment to its highest levels since the start of the financial
crisis, just in time for the Nov. 6 election. Home prices are
rising, sales of new homes are at a more than two-year high and
housing starts are running at their fastest pace since 2008.  After five years of shrinkage, Americans’ real estate
holdings have risen in value for two consecutive quarters and
are worth $730 billion more than at the end of 2011, Federal
Reserve data show. More than 1.3 million homeowners who were
“underwater” on their mortgages -- the owners owe more than
their property is worth -- have moved above the break-even point
on their homes, according to CoreLogic of Santa Ana,  California .  “People are beginning to buy into the idea that a real
recovery in housing is under way; that has to affect
confidence,” said Jim O’Sullivan, chief U.S. economist for
High-Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York. “The housing
meltdown was so central to the crisis, even a modest recovery
brings with it pretty powerful symbolism.”  Nationally, home prices have rebounded from their post-
crash lows. The S&P/Case-Shiller 20-city index released this
week rose 2 percent in August from a year earlier. A broader
index by  CoreLogic , a real estate information service, showed
prices up 4.6 percent in August compared with a year earlier.  Fastest Pace  In September, sales of new single-family homes hit 389,000,
their fastest pace since April 2010 and a 27 percent gain from a
year ago.  “Clearly, demand conditions have changed for the better,”
Richard Dugas, chief executive officer of  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the
largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, told analysts on Oct. 26.  Obama’s allies, and many economists, say the housing
turnaround is feeding the public’s brightening mood. The October
University of Michigan  consumer confidence   measure  hit 82.6, its
highest mark in five years and up from 55.7 in August 2011.  “Anything that leads people to feel the economy is
improving is good for the president,” said Mark Mellman, a
Democratic pollster, adding that the impact would likely be
greatest in states, such as Nevada, where home prices are
recovering after the deepest plunges.  Housing Skeptics  Not everyone is convinced that housing is back. Banks are
slowly selling off repossessed homes; that overhang will curb
any upward price movement, said Chris Whalen, senior managing
director at Tangent Capital Partners LLC. Too few would-be
homebuyers can qualify for mortgages from banks that, because of
tighter regulations, are reluctant to extend credit.  “The regulatory environment is going to be very negative
for housing,” Whalen told Bloomberg Radio on Oct. 26.  Even with the recent rebound, new-home sales are well below
the peak  1.4 million  rate of mid-2005.  And while Obama may benefit politically from improving
public sentiment, his policies haven’t done much to spur the
emerging recovery. Efforts to reduce the burden of mortgage debt
carried by millions of Americans, freeing them to support an
economic recovery by resuming normal spending, have drawn
criticism from Republicans and Democrats alike.  Protecting Homeowners  In February 2009, the president vowed to protect as many as
9 million Americans from losing their homes to foreclosure. To
date, 2.7 million borrowers have been able to refinance or
modify their loans via the government’s two main housing
programs.  Since 2007, when housing prices began their downward
plunge, more than 4.5 million others have lost their homes to
foreclosure, according to RealtyTrac Inc. of  Irvine , California.  The foreclosure crisis may have crested. In September, 6.39
percent of mortgages were delinquent for 90 days, down from 8.14
percent a year earlier and a peak of 11.12 percent in March
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreclosure filings, including default notices, scheduled
auctions and bank repossessions, affected 180,427 properties in
September. That represented a 7 percent decline from August and
a 16 percent drop from one year earlier, according to
RealtyTrac.  Mortgages also represent a smaller drag on household
finances. Homeowners spent 9 percent of their disposable income
on mortgage payments in the second quarter, down from a peak of
11.3 percent in the third quarter of 2007, according to the
Federal Reserve. That burden has fallen for 13 consecutive
months and is back to its 2002 level.  Swing States  Since the end of 2011, the percentage of mortgage-holders
who were underwater on their loans fell in seven of the nine
most competitive swing states, including  Virginia  and  Colorado ,
according to CoreLogic.  “We started to see the market turn around several months
ago, at the very end of 2011,” said Greg Zadel, 53, a real
estate agent in Firestone, Colorado, about 30 miles north of
Denver. “The change was one more of confidence, not so much
doom and gloom.”  Prices in Colorado rose 6.9 percent in August from a year
ago, according to CoreLogic, matching the gain in  Florida  and
trailing only  Nevada ’s 9 percent among the states where voters
have supported presidential candidates from either party in the
recent past.  Limited Impact  Still, the housing recovery’s political consequences may be
limited. In  Ohio , the share of underwater homeowners rose 0.2
percentage points to 24.1 percent. And sizeable percentages of
homeowners in Nevada, 58.6 percent, and Florida, 42.7 percent,
remain underwater.  With the economy saddled with high unemployment and slow
growth, some Republicans say the political benefit of the
housing recovery will be modest.  “We’re just not talking about a lot of people,” said Tony Fratto, who was a White House and Treasury Department spokesman
in the George W. Bush administration.  On the campaign trail, the president claims credit for the
rebound even as his opponent predicts further weakness.  “Housing prices are beginning to rise,” Obama said at an
Oct. 25 rally in Virginia. “We’ve got a long way to go,
Virginia, but we’ve come too far to turn back now.”  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  warns that in
a second Obama term, “I’m convinced you’re going to see the
values of your homes continue to bump along in the basement.”  Romney’s Answer  Romney, too, has struggled to define an answer to the
crisis. In October 2011, he criticized administration efforts to
prevent foreclosures, saying the process should be allowed “to
run its course and hit the bottom.” A few months later, he told
a voter roundtable that “the idea this is going to cure itself
all by itself is probably not real.”  A seven-page housing primer his campaign released in
September promised to “reduce the outsized role of government
and revitalize the private sector’s role in the housing market”
without offering much detail.  In any case, residential investment, which acted as a drag
on the economy for six consecutive years, is now contributing to
growth. In the third quarter, housing added 0.33 percentage
points to the overall 2 percent annual growth rate, according to
the Bureau of Economic Analysis.  Rising prices have lured homebuilders back into action.
Housing starts, which bottomed at an annual pace of 478,000,
rebounded to a rate of 872,000 in September, the Census Bureau
said. The improvement is making itself felt in the earnings of
homebuilders such as PulteGroup of Bloomfield Hills, Michigan,
and suppliers, including Oshkosh Corp. and  Eagle Materials Inc. (EXP)   Gaining Momentum  “The housing recovery that drives so much of our results
is clearly picking up momentum,” Oshkosh Chief Executive
Officer Charlie Szews said on an Oct. 26 analysts call, citing
increased demand for concrete mixers and wallboard loaders.  Annual demand for Eagle Materials’ wallboard is running at
20 billion square feet, up from 17 billion last year, Steven Rowley, CEO of Eagle Materials in  Dallas  said on Oct. 30.  The labor market has seen less dramatic improvement.
Unemployment among construction workers has fallen to 11.9
percent from a peak of 27.1 in February 2010, a gain that’s due
more to individuals leaving the industry than finding new jobs.
In September, 5.5 million Americans worked in construction, more
than 2.2 million fewer than at the bubble-era high in April
2006, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  O’Sullivan’s broader measure of housing employment,
including workers in hardware and furniture stores, wood
products, and architectural firms, shows an average monthly gain
of about 11,000 jobs over the past year. He expects that figure
to pick up to about 30,000 in a few months, as the housing
recovery demonstrates staying power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  