-- Lloyds Posts Third-Quarter Loss on Loan Insurance Redress
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-11-01T17:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/lloyds-posts-nine-month-loss-on-loan-insurance-compensation.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, set aside an additional 1 billion
pounds ($1.6 billion) to compensate clients wrongly sold loan
insurance as it posted a narrower third-quarter loss.  The  net loss  shrank to 361 million pounds from 501 million
pounds in the year-earlier period, Lloyds said in a statement
today. The provision brings the total it has earmarked for
redress to 5.3 billion pounds, more than any other U.K. bank.  British lenders have put aside more than 10 billion pounds
after regulators ordered them to compensate customers who were
forced to buy, or didn’t know they had bought insurance to cover
their repayments on mortgages, credit cards and other loans.
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest bank, said on Oct. 18 it
would take an additional 700 million-pound charge for payment
protection insurance, prompting analysts to speculate Lloyds
would have to follow.  “There was a big worry that Lloyds was going to have to
take another 3 to 5 billion pounds of PPI provisioning,” said
Cormac Leech, a banking analyst at  Liberum Capital  in  London  who
has a buy rating on the stock. “There are quite a few key
positives here such as lower loan losses, a smaller-than-
expected PPI charge and an improvement” on its return on
assets, he added.  The stock closed 8.3 percent higher at 43.94 pence in
London. The shares have rebounded 70 percent this year, making
Lloyds the best  performer  in the six-member  FTSE 350 Banks
Index. (F3BANK)  The Treasury, which owns about 40 percent of the bank
after bailing it out in 2008, paid about 73.6 pence a share for
its stake.  Payouts Fall  The amount Lloyds pays out monthly to settle PPI claims
fell to 250 million pounds a month in the third quarter from 300
million pounds in the second half, Finance Director George Culmer told reporters on a call today.  “We would expect that trend to continue,” Culmer said. It
“remains uncertain” if more provisions are needed, he said.  Claims-management companies, which help customers pursue
compensation for a fee or percentage of any award, have inflated
the cost of PPI claims and more than half from some firms are
bogus, the bank said today.  Barclays has made 2 billion pounds of provisions to cover
insurance redress,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  1.3 billion
pounds,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  1.1 billion pounds and Santander U.K.
about 731 million pounds. RBS may need to post an extra 300
million pounds when it reports third-quarter earnings at 7 a.m.
tomorrow, according to Gary Greenwood, a banks analyst at Shore
Capital Ltd. in Liverpool,  England .  German Claims  Lloyds also disclosed that it had set aside an additional
150 million pounds in potential compensation for German clients
sold policies issued by its insurance unit Clerical Medical
Investment Group Ltd. That takes the firm’s total provision to
325 million pounds.  Lloyds’s loss narrowed as provisions for souring mortgages
fell 35 percent to 1.26 billion pounds as impairments slowed at
its Irish unit. Lloyds has set aside more than 10 billion pounds
to cover losses on real estate loans in Ireland, where
commercial real estate prices slumped more than 65 percent and
house prices almost halved since 2007.  The bank said today it expects impairments to decline to 6
billion pounds in 2012 from an earlier estimate of 7.2 billion
pounds.  Beat Estimates  Pretax profit increased to 840 million pounds in the third
quarter from 419 million pounds in the year-earlier period,
beating the 554 million-pound median estimate of 14 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “We have made further significant progress this quarter,
improving underlying performance in a challenging environment,”
Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio, 48, said in the
statement. “Disappointingly, legacy issues continue to affect
our results.”  Lloyds’s profit margins are still under pressure as the
 Bank of England  holds its benchmark  interest rate  at a record
low amid an anemic economic growth.  The net interest margin, the difference between what Lloyds
earns on loans and its cost of funding, narrowed to 1.93 percent
in the third quarter, from 2.05 percent in the three months to
the end of September last year, the bank said.  That missed the 1.94 percent estimate of Credit Suisse
Group AG analysts led by London-based Carla Antunes da Silva.
Horta-Osorio said in May the margin would narrow to less than 2
percent in 2012.  Lloyds didn’t give any update on its plans for resuming
dividend payments, even after telling analysts it would do so in
the second half. The bank hasn’t paid a dividend since it was
bailed out following its takeover of HBOS Plc.  “There’s nothing in these results that indicates Lloyds is
going to be paying a dividend,” said  Simon Maughan , a financial
industry strategist at Olivetree Securities Ltd. in London. “If
they thought they were going to be able to pay a dividend
anytime soon, they would be shouting about it from the
rooftops.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  