-- Panic Spreading Across Nations Outranks Trade: Cutting Research
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-11-01T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/panic-spreading-across-nations-outranks-trade-cutting-research.html
When the U.S. or Europe sneezes, the
rest of the world needn’t catch a cold.  Global trade and financial linkages weren’t strong enough
by themselves to have caused the global recession in 2008 that
followed the U.S. subprime crisis, according to economics
professors Philippe Bacchetta of Switzerland’s University of
Lausanne and Eric van Wincoop at the University of Virginia.
Self-fulfilling panics, not contagion, are to blame, they said.  “The large losses of leveraged financial institutions and
associated decline in credit were not directly responsible for
the Great Recession,” they wrote in a  special feature  for the
Monetary Authority of  Singapore ’s macroeconomic review,
published Oct. 30. “Rather, a deterioration of macroeconomic
fundamentals, such as a negative credit shock, contributed to a
panic by generating conditions that made self-fulfilling
beliefs, which otherwise would not have existed, feasible.”  In the U.S., 86 percent of goods and services purchased are
domestic, while estimates for stock, bond and bank assets show
that about 80 percent to 90 percent are domestic holdings,
Bacchetta and van Wincoop said.  “The co-movement of asset prices in our model of self-
fulfilling risk panics is a result of a global coordination of
beliefs about risk around a large trigger event, and
subsequently, around a particular macro fundamental that becomes
a gauge of fear in the market,” they wrote.  Even with limited trade or cross-border asset holdings, it
may be impossible to have a shock in the U.S. that doesn’t
spread to the rest of the world, the professors said.  “Either countries panic together or they do not panic at
all,” they said.  The self-fulfilling panic also applies to businesses.
Consumers will cut spending and increase savings if they believe
future wages and employment prospects are weaker and more
uncertain. That can drag down aggregate demand and generate a
recession, Bacchetta and van Wincoop said.  “This also weakens firms’ profits and discourages new
investment,” they wrote. “The associated increased risk of
firm bankruptcies implies increased uncertainty about future
labor demand and wages, making initial beliefs self-
fulfilling.”  * * *  For the Bank of England to be more successful in
quantitative easing, it doesn’t have to increase the scale of
its asset purchases, according to economists at the Federal
Reserve Bank of San Francisco. BOE policy makers should just
communicate better.  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s moves have had a greater impact
on government bond yields because its QE programs have been of a
longer duration -- six to 10 months -- and it provides guidance
on the near-term outlook for its policy rates, say Jens
Christensen and Glenn Rudebusch. The BOE’s typical duration is
three months and it doesn’t give any official direction on the
prospects for its benchmark, they said.  “To rely more heavily on explicit forward guidance and
less on asset purchases could prove to be a cost-efficient way
to obtain a similar effect, but at less risk to the central bank
when it is time to exit the unconventional policies and to
normalize the size of its balance sheet,” the economists wrote
in the November issue of the Economic Journal.  QE can push yields down in two ways, the authors wrote. It
can signal that the benchmark rate will remain low longer than
initially anticipated, or it can induce investors to add riskier
assets to their portfolios as asset purchases reduce risk
premiums.  In the U.S., about 60 percent of yield declines reflect
lower expectations for future monetary policy and the remainder
is associated with lower risk premiums, the economists said. All
of the yield declines in the U.K., by contrast, were linked to a
drop in risk premiums.  “The findings seem to indicate that program length and
communication management could be at least as important for the
effectiveness of QE policies as the actual purchase amounts,”
they said.  * * *  The computer revolution has transformed U.S. financial
markets in the past 50 years, boosted liquidity in stocks and
allowed data to be delivered instantly at a negligible cost.
Just don’t expect earnings predictions to get any better.  In an analysis of the extent to which stock and bond prices
forecast a company’s future profit, Jennie Bai of the  New York 
Fed and Thomas Philippon and Alexi Savov of New York
University’s Stern School of Business said what they called
financial market informativeness hasn’t increased in the past
half century. Earnings surprises have grown relative to total
uncertainty, they said.  “These results appear to contradict the view that
improvements in information technology have increased the
availability of low-cost information,” they wrote in an October
New York Fed  staff report . “A possible explanation is that the
relevant constraint for investors lies in the ability to
interpret information rather than the ability to record it. If
this is the case, a rise in the quantity of data need not
improve informativeness or the allocation of resources.”  * * *  Governments seeking to increase their revenue should
consider increasing property and consumption taxes instead of
those on income.  Higher income tax rates are associated with slower growth
even if officials keep the overall burden unchanged by cutting
property and consumption tariffs, according to a  working paper 
published last week by the International Monetary Fund.  “On the other hand, we find that a shift from income to
property taxes has a robust and positive association with
growth,” said authors Santiago Acosta-Ormaechea and Jiae Yoo.
“Similarly, when the increase is in VAT and sale taxes
compensated with a reduction in income taxes, we also find a
positive effect on growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  