-- Pennsylvania Judge Declines to Intervene in Voter-ID Case
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-11-01T21:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/pennsylvania-judge-declines-to-intervene-in-voter-id-case-1-.html
The  Pennsylvania  judge who barred the
state from enforcing a Republican-backed requirement for voter
photo-identification in the coming election declined a request
that he clear up confusion about the status of the law.  Commonwealth Court Judge Robert Simpson in Harrisburg ruled
Oct. 2 that while election officials can request an ID on
Election Day, voters without one can cast ballots that will be
counted. Today, he rejected a request that he review or
supervise the state’s compliance after advocacy groups
complained that the state Department of Aging is falsely
informing voters that they must have an ID to vote.  Simpson said he “considered and expressly rejected”
giving himself an oversight role a month ago and said in a
written opinion today that he stands by that decision.  Advocacy groups including the  American Civil Liberties
Union  and the National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People said in court filings that state officials
haven’t properly tailored voter-education efforts to conform
with Simpson’s Oct. 2 ruling.  Pennsylvania is one of nine states that passed laws
requiring voters to show a state-issued ID before casting a
ballot. Seventeen states passed laws requiring voters to present
some kind of photo ID. Just two states adopted voter-ID laws
before 2008.  Laws Rejected  Courts in Pennsylvania,  Texas  and  Wisconsin  have rejected
voter-ID laws passed by Republican-dominated legislatures since
Democrat President  Barack Obama ’s 2008 victory.  Supporters of the laws say they’re needed to prevent voter
fraud. Opponents contend the measures are aimed at suppressing
voting by low-income people and the elderly, who may vote for
Democrats.  “We’re not surprised” with the ruling so close to the
election, Vic Walczak, a spokesman for the ACLU in Pittsburgh,
said in a phone interview. “There are going to be an awful lot
of confused voters.”  “We’re pleased he denied the request,” Ronald Ruman, a
spokesman for the Pennsylvania Department of State, said in a
voice-mail message.  The case is  Applewhite v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
330-md-2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  