-- Petronas Hires Lobbyists to Persuade Canada on Progress Takeover
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-11-01T02:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/petronas-hires-lobbyists-to-persuade-canada-on-progress-takeover.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. has hired
lobbyists to help it secure approval from the Canadian
government for the C$5.2 billion ($5.2 billion) takeover of
 Progress Energy (PRQ)  Resources Corp.  StrategyCorp, an Ottawa-based government-relations firm,
registered on Oct. 22 to lobby on behalf of the deal for
 Malaysia ’s state-owned oil company, known as Petronas,
government records  show . Three days earlier, Industry Minister
Christian Paradis rejected the acquisition under the nation’s
foreign-takeover law.  In blocking the transaction, Paradis said Petronas, had 30
days to appeal or offer concessions. On Oct. 30, Petronas
extended its deadline for completing its purchase of Progress
until Nov. 30.  StrategyCorp.  employees Lisa Samson, a former Conservative
Party aide, and Martin Rust have registered to lobby on behalf
of Petronas. Their company also registered on Oct. 22 to
advocate for Progress in favor of the transaction. The firm had
already been lobbying for government support for a liquefied
natural gas terminal in British Columbia that Progress wants to
build with Petronas.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s Conservative government is
also reviewing  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s proposed $15.1 billion takeover of
 Nexen Inc. (NXY) , a Calgary-based oil and gas producer.  While Harper has said selling more of the nation’s natural
resources to  Asia  is a “national priority,” and that his
government welcomes foreign investment, he also said this month
the Cnooc offer for Calgary-based Nexen raises a “range of
difficult policy questions.”  Harper has said the government will release new guidelines
for how it judges foreign takeovers when it announces the
decision on Cnooc-Nexen.  Azman Ibrahim, a spokesman for Petronas, declined to
comment by e-mail. Greg Kist, vice president of marketing for
Progress, didn’t immediately return a call outside standard
business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  