-- Pfizer Profit Matches Estimates as Forcast Range Narrows
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-11-01T20:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/pfizer-profit-matches-analyst-estimates-as-it-narrows-forecast.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, narrowed its 2012 forecast after reporting third-
quarter earnings that met analyst estimates and sales that fell
short of expectations. The company also said it was buying back
as much as $10 billion in shares.  Net income in the third quarter fell 14 percent to $3.21
billion, or 43 cents a share, from $3.74 billion, or 48 cents, a
year earlier, New York-based Pfizer said today in a statement.
Earnings excluding one-time items matched the 53 cents average
of 16 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales decreased 16 percent to $14 billion, more than $600
million below analyst estimates. The company’s former top seller
Lipitor, in the first full quarter facing competition from
copycat generics, saw sales fall 71 percent to $749 million from
a year earlier. Pfizer has fought to hold on to sales of the
cholesterol pill, using discounts and coupons to keep customers.  “We continue to believe that building a pipeline that
delivers sustained revenue and profit growth is the most
enduring driver of multiple growth,” said  Tony Butler , a drug
industry analyst with Barclays Plc in  New York , in an Oct. 15
note to clients.  Analysts had projected third-quarter revenue of $14.7
billion. The sales miss was due to foreign currency exchange
rates that trimmed 4 percent, said  Timothy Anderson , an analyst
with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York. In a note to
clients today, he called the buyback program “not a surprise.”  Rapamune Charge  During the quarter, Pfizer also had a $491 million charge
to net income from a settlement with the  U.S. Department of
Justice  over marketing of Rapamune, a transplant drug, that
Pfizer got with its 2009 purchase of Wyeth. Offsetting that was
$1.1 billion Pfizer got from tax audits in its favor by the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service.  The company narrowed its full year adjusted earnings
 forecast  to $2.14 to $2.17 a share, from $2.12 to $2.22 a share.  Pfizer also announced a $10 billion share buyback program
once the sale of its nutrition unit to  Nestle SA (NESN)  for $11.85
billion closes, in the “next few months,” the company said.
That means that almost the entire proceeds from the nutrition
unit sale will go to buybacks. Pfizer also has $4.1 billion left
in its current repurchase program.  Share Buybacks  There’s no defined limit on how far the share buybacks will
extend, said Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read . “We look at
total shareholder return, through the performance of the
business, dividends and buybacks,” he said in a telephone
interview after the announcement. “I don’t see it as an ’or,’ I
see it as an ’and,’” he said, comparing buybacks to other
activities.  Pfizer  fell  1.3 percent to $24.55 at the 4 p.m. close of
New York trading. The shares have gained 27 percent in the past
12 months.  “Our results this quarter reflect continued product losses
of exclusivity, most notably Lipitor in all major markets,”
Read said in a statement announcing the results.  Pfizer is divesting its nutrition and animal health units
as part of its plan to refocus the company on developing and
selling new  prescription drugs . Its two $2 billion-plus
prospects include a blood thinner, Eliquis, being co-developed
with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , and a rheumatoid arthritis pill,
tofacitinib.  The animal health business will be spun off in an initial
public offering and stock swap before the first half of next
year. The unit had $4.19 billion in sales last year.  Last ‘Lever’  “Once nutritionals and animal health businesses are gone,
Pfizer will revisit further the option of splitting up more,”
said Sanford C. Bernstein’s Anderson. “This is perhaps the last
major ’lever’ that Pfizer can pull, and doing so would likely
energize investors,” he said in a note to clients.  Pfizer has already restructured operations in developed
markets, and is now looking at its business in  emerging markets 
for more efficiency, Read said. The CEO, however, said today
that though he considers its new drugs and established products
units as separate businesses, he plans no formal separation of
the two.  “I haven’t used the word ’separation,’” he said on a
conference call today. “I’ve said, ’I see two businesses,’ one
that’s value and one that’s innovative.”  Lyrica, used to treat pain, is now Pfizer’s  top product .
The pill sold $1.04 billion, up 8 percent from a year earlier.
Other top drugs saw their sales decline. Second best-selling was
Enbrel, for rheumatoid arthritis, which sold $893 million, down
7 percent, partly on foreign exchange rates. Pneumococcal
vaccine Prevnar, which Pfizer is seeking to expand use of in
older populations, sold $868 million, down 14 percent.  FDA Decision  The drugmaker is waiting on decisions by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration on tofacitinib, expected by Nov. 21, and
Eliquis, due in March. It is hoping to get both 5-milligram and
10-milligram doses of tofacitinib approved, Geno Germano,
president of specialty care, said on a conference call
discussing the quarterly results.  Tofacitinib could sell $2.16 billion by 2017, according to
the average of three analyst estimates compiled Bloomberg.
Eliquis, meanwhile, could generate $5.2 billion in sales by
2020, which will be split with Bristol-Myers,  Catherine Arnold ,
an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a note to
clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  