-- Philips Advances in ‘Marathon’ Revamp as CEO Reviews Costs
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-11-01T20:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/philips-advances-in-marathon-revamp-as-ceo-reviews-costs-1-.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  Chief
Executive Officer Frans  Van Houten  said he’s halfway through a
program to make the Dutch manufacturer more responsive and
focused on products that Asian rivals won’t undercut in price.  Van Houten, speaking today at the Amsterdam Stock Exchange,
said there is little point spending resources on “me-too”
products and that Philips must instead focus on high-margin
areas such as medical devices or advanced lighting. Changing the
culture to make employees embrace his vision will take three
years, said Van Houten, who took over in early 2011.  “There is still a lot of work to be done,” the CEO said.
“You can compare it to a marathon, and we’re at pole number
eight.” Van Houten said the “machine” would run faster toward
the end of his program.  Van Houten, a Philips veteran with a track record for
turning around underperforming assets, has  cut thousands  of
jobs, parked the unprofitable television unit in an Asian
venture and eliminated management layers to accelerate decision-
making. Van Houten is exploring the future of a low-margin unit
for consumer electronics such as  DVD players , and he declined to
comment today on the progress of the review.  Philips is the largest maker of lighting equipment, and it
competes with  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  in the market
for health-care equipment such as medical scanners. Its third
division, which makes consumer electronics, has shrunk over the
years as customers flock to competitors such as  Sony Corp. (6758)  or
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for mobile and music devices.  The CEO’s turnaround effort has started to show results.
The company reported third-quarter profit on Oct. 22 that beat
 analysts’ estimates , with health-care equipment orders rising by
at least 10 percent in Europe, while the transition to light-
emitting diode or LEDs from incandescent bulbs helped lighting
sales rise.  Van Houten aims to save 1.1 billion euros ($1.43 billion)
and includes cutting 6,700 jobs. Philips has gained 21 percent
so far this year, putting it on track for its best annual stock
performance since 2009. Siemens, which reports earnings in a
week, has gained 6.2 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  