-- Bill Gross Says Quantitative Easing Not Spurring Investments
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-11-01T15:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/pimco-s-gross-says-quantitative-easing-not-leading-to-investment.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
there is no evidence that investment is being spurred by the
 Federal Reserve ’s quantitative easing program.  “All of the money being created and freed up is elevating
asset prices, but those prices are not causing corporations to
invest in future production,” Gross wrote in a monthly
investment outlook posted on the  Newport Beach , California-based
company’s  website  today. Lower  interest rates  are being used
“to consume as opposed to invest,” he said.  Investors should recognize that asset and currency prices
ultimately rest on the ability of the economy to grow, Gross
wrote. If real growth is stunted in the U.S. and globally, then
investors should also acknowledge “bite-sized” future returns
and the growing risks of “misguided” monetary and fiscal
policy that may disrupt financial markets at some point. The so-
called fiscal cliff may be the first of a series of disruptions,
though Gross expects some type of compromise on the possible tax
increases and budget cuts.  The fiscal cliff refers to the more than $600 billion of
federal spending cuts and tax increases that will take effect at
the start of next year unless Congress acts. JPMorgan Chase &
Co., the largest U.S. bank by assets, said last month that the
combination will subtract 1 percentage point from U.S. growth.  Treasury Purchases  “To be fair,  Ben Bernanke  has been operating with one arm
behind his back and has been calling for cooperative stimulation
from the fiscal side of this government,” Gross wrote. “He has
received little response - not from Democrats, not from
Republicans.”  Fed officials led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  implemented
$2.3 trillion in two rounds of bond purchases, known as
quantitative easing, since 2008 to boost economic growth. In
June, the central bank expanded what’s become known as its
Operation Twist program to replace $400 billion of short-term
bonds with longer-term debt, by $267 billion.  The Fed announced Sept. 13 a third round of QE in which
it’s making open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage debt
a month as it seeks to boost economic growth and reduce
unemployment. Policy makers said they will keep pumping money
into the economy until there was “ongoing, sustained
improvement” in the labor market.  All 21 primary dealers that trade the securities with the
central bank expect latest QE measures to be expanded to include
Treasuries, according to a Bloomberg News survey in the week
ended Oct. 19.  Election Pessimism  Gross domestic product was forecast to rise 2 percent in
2013 before the Atlantic storm Sandy devastated the northeastern
U.S. this week, according to the median forecast of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey as of Oct. 29. With damage still
being assessed, predictions pegged the economic loss from the
Texas-sized storm to be as much as $50 billion.  This year’s race for the White House between President
 Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  doesn’t make
Gross optimistic about the prospects for change.  “Fact is they’re all the same -- bought and paid for with
the same money,” Gross wrote. “Pulling a Democratic or
Republican lever will deliver the same results every four
years.”  Market Returns  A report tomorrow from the Labor Department is forecast to
show the U.S. added 125,000 jobs in October, compared with
114,000 in the previous month, according to the median forecast
of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The jobless rate is
expected to rise to 7.9 percent, from 7.8 percent.  Treasury yields should stay low in this type of environment,
while what Gross has called the “cult of equity” or even total
return, is over, he reiterated, if that presumes a resumption of
historical patterns anywhere close to “double digits.”  U.S. government bonds have returned 2.1 percent this year,
while bonds in an index of U.S. investment-grade and high-yield
company debt gained 10.95 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill indexes. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of shares
gained 13.2 percent this year, including reinvested dividends.  The $281 billion Total Return Fund managed by Gross has
returned 10 percent in the past year, beating 94 percent of its
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It gained 0.37
percent over the past month, beating 56 percent of its peers.
The firm manages $1.92 trillion in assets as of Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  