-- Pimco’s Kiesel Favors Housing, Energy Sectors Amid Budget Gaps
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-11-01T16:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/pimco-s-kiesel-favors-housing-energy-sectors-amid-budget-gaps.html
Pacific Investment Management Co. is
favoring sectors from U.S. housing to emerging-market banks for
growth as chronic budget deficits in developed countries slow
the global economy.  U.S. housing and energy, Asian gas distribution and gaming
as well as Latin American banks should grow faster than their
respective economies,  Mark Kiesel , global head of corporate bond
portfolios at the manager of the world’s biggest debt fund,
wrote today on the firm’s website in a  report  titled “Go for
Growth.”  Europe’s debt crisis, the looming U.S. fiscal cliff of
higher taxes and spending cuts, and slower growth in  emerging
markets  may weaken global expansion, Kiesel wrote. Yields on
corporate bonds are at about record lows as the Federal Reserve
has held its benchmark interest rate near zero for four years.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in September he expects no
change in policy through mid-2015.  Homebuilders such as Federal Way, Washington-based
 Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY)  should benefit from a recovery in housing as
the number of existing homes for sale are at a seven-year low
with the number of new single-family home building permits
hovering near a 45-year nadir. With U.S. crude oil production at
a 15-year high and growing at 15 percent annually, companies
with ties to emerging oil and gas shale regions in the U.S. are
likely to expand, according to the report.  ‘Game Changer’  “America’s recent ascent in domestic oil and gas
production is truly a game changer for the U.S. energy industry
and for the country,” Kiesel wrote.  Natural gas production in  China  will account for 8 percent
of energy consumption by 2015, twice the current share, as the
world’s most-populous nation moves toward cleaner energy sources
to reduce pollution, Kiesel wrote. Improved infrastructure in
Macau and a rising middle class in the country will continue the
gaming region’s growth, whose annual revenue has increased six
times in the last 6 1/2 years to $36 billion.  “We similarly believe that growing wealth throughout Asia,
combined with improving infrastructure, will lead to increasing
demand from Asian consumers for both Macau and Singapore
gaming,” Kiesel wrote.  A larger middle class in  Latin America  should increase loan
growth for the region’s banks. Mexico, Peru and Brazil have
significantly lower ratios of loans to economic output, Kiesel
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 