-- Popular Bond Wipe-Out in Shareholder Hands: Corporate Finance
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-11-01T09:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/popular-bond-wipe-out-in-shareholder-hands-corporate-finance.html
Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) ’s
bondholders are counting on the Spanish lender’s equity
investors rescuing them from being wiped out on $6.4 billion of
junior debt.  The bank wants to raise as much as 2.5 billion euros ($3.2
billion) in shares to avoid seeking state aid that would trigger
losses on subordinated bonds under European Union rules.
Popular’s 5.702 percent junior notes due 2019 rose 15.8 percent
in the past month to 7O cents on the euro, according to
Bloomberg prices, compared with an average 1.93 percent increase
for securities in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Euro
Financial Subordinated & Lower Tier-2 Index.  Failure to raise funds through a share sale could mean
Popular having to conduct a restructuring under the eyes of
regulators, cap salaries and dispose of assets. The lender is a
victim of  Spain ’s real estate collapse, failing the latest
government stress tests which revealed the Madrid-based lender
has a 3.22 billion-euro capital shortfall.  “The share sale is the last hope for Popular subordinated
bondholders since a failure would mean that the state would have
to step in,” said Ignacio Victoriano, head of fixed-income at
Renta 4 SGIIC, which manages 1.5 billion euros of assets
including some Popular subordinated bonds. “We are confident
that they will get the deal done.”  King Alfonso  Popular traces its roots back to 1926 when King Alfonso
XIII oversaw the start of operations. The nation’s fifth-largest
lender now has 161 billion euros of assets and 2,500 branches in
Spain after absorbing Banco Pastor SA in February.  The lender has a  BB rating  from  Standard & Poor’s , two
levels below investment grade, and is ranked one step higher at
Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service. Popular’s Tier 1, or
subordinated notes, which are first to absorb losses after
equity, are graded CCC+ by S&P, which put the securities on
“negative watch” on Oct. 16 after the ratings firm downgraded
Spain by two levels to BBB-.  A  Madrid  based official for Popular, who asked not to be
identified citing bank policy, declined to comment.  Spain is following Ireland in making subordinated
bondholders pay for the mistakes of its banks. Irish lenders
imposed losses of as much as 90 percent on their junior debt
investors as the government injected or pledged 64 billion euros
to rescue them following that country’s real estate collapse.  Losses Imposed  Before losses were imposed on Bank of Ireland Plc junior
bondholders, credit-default swaps insuring 10 million euros of
the notes for five years cost 4.5 million euros in advance and
500,000 euros annually. That compares with an upfront fee of 2.3
million euros fee that swaps sellers demanded to insure Popular
debt yesterday, signaling a 52 percent chance of default.  A total 944 credit-default swap contracts are outstanding
covering a net $348 million of Popular’s debt, according to the
 Depository Trust & Clearing Corp . There were nine trades worth a
gross $79 million of the bank’s bonds last week.  “The Popular share transaction could be a once-in-a-
lifetime opportunity,” said Javier Bernat, a Madrid-based
financial analyst Bankia Bolsa BV. “Despite the challenges, the
board is backing the transaction and if it carries a good
marketing campaign among its depositors the deal can be done.”  Burden Sharing  Investors in junior debt of Spain’s  Bankia group  are still
waiting to hear their fate after the nation’s bank-rescue fund,
known as FROB, recapitalized the lender. A  memorandum of
understanding  on the terms of the bailout said Spanish
authorities will “require burden sharing measures from hybrid
capital holders and subordinated debt holders in banks receiving
public capital.”  Bonds sold by Spanish banks outperformed debt from lenders
in other peripheral countries in October. Debt of Bilbao-based
Kuxtabank Bank returned 4.09 percent, Banco Espanol de Credito
SA made 2.45 percent and Banco Santader SA gained 2 percent.
That compares with an average 1.27 percent for the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Euro Periphery Financial Index.  Not all investors are confident that Popular will succeed
in sidestepping a bailout. Jean-Luc Lepreux, senior bank analyst
at Societe Generale SA in Paris, advised clients in an Oct. 29
note to avoid Popular debt because of the risk of losses.  “Raising 2.5 billion euros when your market capitalization
is 2.6 billion euros will be hard without running the extra
mile,” Lepreux said in an interview. “Subordinated debt
holders should be prepared to face high haircuts for banks
needing public funds, up to 100 percent for fully nationalized
institutions.”  Customer Goodwill  Popular wants its customers to buy 60 percent of the new
shares being offered because Chief Financial Officer Jacobo Gonzalez-Robatto said Oct. 1 that “the bank has enormous
goodwill of its customers.”  The  stock  was at 1.20 euros today and has slumped 29
percent since the day before the share-sale announcement on Oct.
1, valuing the lender at 2.6 billion euros.  Bankia followed the same strategy in July last year when it
tapped about 347,000 individual investors as it was seeking to
boost capital. Bankia  stock  has fallen almost 70 percent since
then.  Popular’s  third-quarter profit  fell to 75.6 million euros
from 98.6 million euros in the same period a year earlier, the
lender said Oct. 26. That surpassed the 42 million-euro median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of nine analysts.  Loan Defaults  Net loans newly classed as in default jumped to 2.02
billion euros in the third quarter from 1.08 billion euros the
previous period. Bad loans as a proportion of total loans jumped
to 7.81 percent from 6.98 percent in June, the bank said.  Popular’s business plan, which includes provisions of 7.5
billion euros for loans to real-estate developers and 5.4
billion euros for foreclosed assets, amounts to a “massive
clean-up,” Gonzalez-Robatto said. The bank said on Oct. 1 that
it was set to book a 2.3 billion-euro loss this year, compared
with a previous estimate of 400 million euros in profit, because
of the accelerated clean-up plan.  Gonzalez-Robatto said as many as 12 banks had come forward
to offer underwriting services for the share sale, which would
be priced at a discount of at least 40 percent, and the bank had
received underwriting commitments of 7.5 billion euros.  “We think the share sale is doable if the discount is big
as Popular is signaling” said Francisco Salvador, a strategist
at securities broker FGA/MG Valores. “There is a lot of
interest from investment banks to arrange the transaction, so
it’s likely that, at least in the short term, they manage to
sidestep public help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net . 