-- Potash Chasing Russia as No. 1 in Israel Deal: Corporate Canada
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   L y d i a   M u l v a n y
-- 2012-11-01T20:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/potash-chasing-russia-as-no-1-in-israel-deal-corporate-canada.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ’s
proposed purchase of  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  would give it control
of about 25 percent of global potash production capacity, making
it the biggest producer and boosting sales to  China  and  India .  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said yesterday
he’s met with Potash Corp. Chief Executive Officer Bill Doyle
and that talks about a sale to the Canadian company are
continuing. The 86 percent of Tel Aviv-based Israel Chemicals
that Potash Corp. doesn’t already own had a market value of
about 53.2 billion shekels ($13.7 billion) as of yesterday,
which would make it the largest agricultural chemical deal,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a transformative transaction that would vault them
past the Russians into the No. 1 spot globally,” said Spencer Churchill, an analyst at Paradigm Capital Inc. in Toronto who
recommends buying Potash Corp. shares. Demand for the crop
nutrient has increased as farmers have sought to meet the
world’s growing appetite for food, fiber and fuel.  The Israeli talks come almost two years after Doyle
successfully fended off an unsolicited $40 billion takeover bid
from  Australia ’s BHP Billiton Ltd. w  Canada  ruled the deal
wouldn’t be in its national interest. Buying  Israel  Chemicals
may face a similar test as it’s that country’s second-largest
publicly traded company and the Israeli government holds a so-
called golden share allowing it to block any deal.  Antitrust Issues  Potash Corp., the world’s second-biggest potash producer by
output, may also face antitrust concerns in buying a competitor,
according to Jason Miner, a Princeton, New Jersey-based analyst
at Bloomberg Industries. The Canadian company last year
accounted for about 20 percent of global shipments of potash, a
potassium-based compound used to strengthen plant roots and
protect against drought, second only to  Russia ’s OAO  Uralkali (URKA) ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The regulatory hurdles will be high,” Miner said.
“People assign a low probability of an acquisition going
ahead.”  Israel Chemicals dropped 0.2 percent to 48.50 shekels in
 Tel Aviv  after climbing 5.2 percent yesterday. Potash Corp. rose
0.7 percent to C$40.45 in Toronto.  Potash Corp., which shipped 9.05 million metric tons of
potash in 2011 and also produces phosphate- and nitrogen-based
fertilizers, gets about half its  revenue  from  North America .
Acquiring Israel Chemical’s  Dead Sea  production capacity would
boost sales to China and India, the world’s most populous
countries.  Indian Exports  Israel Chemicals, which is controlled by the Ofer family’s
holding company Israel Corp. and is the country’s largest
company by market value after Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd., sold 5.17 million tons of potash in 2011 for an 11 percent
global share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Israel
Chemicals sold about 37 percent of its 2011 output to India,
according to Bloomberg Industries’ Miner.  Israel Corp. confirmed yesterday in a statement that
executives at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash. Corp. held
talks with Netanyahu and government agencies about a “possible
merger.” Potash Corp. said separately it “acknowledges” the
statement and doesn’t intend to comment further on the matter.  As well as potential antitrust concerns, Netanyahu risks
being criticized during upcoming elections for selling Israel’s
natural resources and jeopardizing the Dead Sea’s ecology, Gilad Alper, an analyst at Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd. in
 Ramat Gan , Israel, said yesterday by e-mail.  Shrinking Sea  The Dead Sea is shrinking at the fastest rate since data-
keeping started in the 1950s, according to the Hydrological
Service of Israel. The accelerated decline has sparked calls for
Israel and Jordan to stop fertilizer makers from siphoning so
much of the sea’s water, whose therapeutic powers have attracted
visitors since biblical times.  In addition to its Israel Chemicals interest, Potash Corp.
holds minority stakes in Jordan’s  Arab Potash Co. (APOT)  and Sociedad
Quimica y Minera de Chile SA.  “We own them with a long-term goal of having a majority
position in each one,” Doyle said on an Oct. 25 conference
call. “I’ve said many times, this doesn’t happen overnight, but
we think that they’re a very, very valuable part of our company,
and it’s more than just the monetary value.”  Potash Corp. sold potash for an average of $429 a ton in
the third quarter, 4.9 percent less than a year earlier. Potash
sale volumes fell to 2.1 million tons, from 2.2 million tons.  Lowered Guidance  The company said last month that full-year earnings will be
less than its earlier  guidance  because of reduced sales to China
and India amid delays in renewing supply contracts. China, which
has increased potash imports by rail from  Europe , will probably
agree to new terms by the end of this year, Doyle said Oct. 25.  Potash Corp. and Israel Chemicals’ production was at less
than capacity last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “There’s a tension between Potash Corp.’s need to grow and
the needs of all the potash producers to balance supply and
demand,” Miner said yesterday in an interview. “If you grow
organically you risk sparking a race for market share that can
boost supply too fast.”  Israel Chemicals was established as a state-owned company
in 1968 and the shares started trading 24 years later in Tel
Aviv. As well as production on the shore of the Dead Sea, it
owns Iberpotash, which produces potash from two mines in
Catalonia, Spain, and Cleveland Potash, which operates the
Boulby Mine in the U.K.  Golden Share  The government sold its controlling interest to  Israel
Corp. (ILCO)  in 1995. It retains the golden share that allows it to
block a takeover of Israel Chemicals by any party deemed as
hostile and to protect the country’s natural resources.  Potash Corp. shares in  New York  have dropped 18 percent
through yesterday since BHP made its takeover bid for the
company on Aug. 17, 2010. The Canadian government blocked the
proposal on Nov. 3 of that year on the grounds that the deal
wouldn’t provide a “net benefit” to the country.  Uralkali has soared 60 percent in London trading in the
same period while Plymouth, Minnesota-based  Mosaic Co. (MOS) , the
largest U.S. fertilizer producer, has fallen 5.9 percent in New
York.  The irony of Potash Corp.’s ambitions for Israel Chemicals
hasn’t been lost on Sadiq Adatia, the Toronto-based chief
investment officer at Sun Life Global Investments Inc.  “From the perspective that Canada was worried about losing
Potash to  BHP (BHP) , I can see Israel reacting the same way,” Adatia
said yesterday in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Lydia Mulvany in New York at 
 lmulvany1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  