-- Pound Rises as House Prices Climb, Lobby Raises Growth Forecasts
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-11-01T14:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/pound-rises-as-house-prices-climb-lobby-raises-growth-forecasts.html
The pound strengthened for a third
day against the dollar after an industry report showed U.K.
 house prices  increased in October, adding to signs the economy
is recovering.  Sterling touched the highest level in two weeks versus the
U.S. currency after Britain’s biggest business lobby raised its
U.K. economic forecasts and said the Bank of England will
probably refrain from expanding stimulus when it meets next
week. U.K. government bonds fell for a third day as the Debt
Management Office sold 900 million pounds ($1.45 billion) of
inflation-linked securities.  “It’s looking like the Bank of England will stay put next
week,” said Peter Kinsella, a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London . “We’re seeing a little
sterling strength” and that move may continue, he said.  The pound rose 0.1 percent to $1.6150 at 2:42 p.m. in
London after climbing to $1.6175, the strongest since Oct. 17.
Sterling was little changed at 80.33 pence per euro after
gaining 0.4 percent yesterday.  The U.K. currency will advance to 79 pence per euro by
year-end, Kinsella said.  The cost of an average British home increased 0.6 percent
from September, when it fell 0.4 percent,  Nationwide Building
Society  said in an e-mailed statement. From a year earlier,
prices dropped 0.9 percent, it said.  Higher Forecasts  The U.K. economy will be little changed this year and
expand 1.4 percent in 2013, the  Confederation of British
Industry  said in a report published in London. In August, it
predicted a 0.3 percent contraction and a 1.3 percent expansion.
Growth may accelerate to about 2 percent in 2014, it said.  The pound stayed higher even after a report showed U.K.
 manufacturing  shrank in October. A  gauge  based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  fell to 47.5 from a revised 48.1 in
September, Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  said. A figure below 50 shows contraction.  The  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy Committee next meets
on Nov. 7-8. Policy makers voted 9-0 to keep the bond-purchase
target at 375 billion pounds at their Oct. 3-4 meeting,
according to the minutes released on Oct. 17.  “Whilst there may be no more QE from the BOE next week, it
is still on the table, albeit in December or February, depending
on the data,” said Jane Foley, a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Rabobank International, referring to the central
bank’s asset purchases, known as quantitative easing. “Some of
the gains that we may see in sterling could be temporary,” she
said on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with Caroline Hyde.  Impact Undermined  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  said yesterday
that concerns about the economic outlook may undermine the
impact of quantitative easing, prompting JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
abandon its forecast for the Bank of England to increase
stimulus next week.  “Charlie Bean’s speech overnight is enough for us to
change the call to expect no addition to QE next week,” London-
based JPMorgan economist Malcolm Barr wrote in an e-mailed note
to clients today. “But the risks are clearly slanted toward
more asset purchases in the early part of next year.”  Barclays Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
Citigroup Inc. have also abandoned previous forecasts for more
quantitative easing at this month’s Bank of England meeting.  The pound strengthened 0.2 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies. The euro gained 0.8 percent and
the dollar rose 0.1 percent.  The 10-year gilt yield rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.88 percent after climbing to 1.90
percent, the highest level since Oct. 26. The 1.75 percent bond
due in September 2022 fell 0.245, or 2.45 pounds per 1,000-pound
face amount, to 98.84.  The government sold inflation-linked gilts maturing in
November 2047 at a so-called real yield of 0.294 percent.
Investors bid for 1.75 times the amount of bonds allotted,
according to the DMO website.  Gilts returned 2.6 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bonds gained
3.3 percent and U.S. Treasuries earned 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  