-- Predicting the Next Shock to the Global Economy
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-11-01T22:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/predicting-the-next-shock-to-the-global-economy.html
The growing gulf between the behavior
of investors enamored with monetary and fiscal largess and the
reality of globally weakening economies -- a phenomenon I call
the Grand Disconnect -- is profoundly unhealthy.  It will end, sooner or later, in any case. One way it could
be eliminated is through the rapid expansion of economies
globally. The past and current massive monetary and fiscal
stimulus or other forces might rekindle growth. Some investors
point to the recent stabilization of U.S. house prices as the
beginning of a revival.  I have my doubts. The huge deleveraging in the private
sector in the U.S. and abroad; the unresolved odd-couple
tensions between the Teutonic North and the Club Med South in
the euro zone; and the needed shift in  China  from an export-led
economy to one powered by domestic consumption suggest that
“risk on” investments will collapse to meet recessionary and
chronically slow-growing economies.  What will cause the agonizing reappraisal by bullish
investors? Probably a shock, as was the case in limited ways
with the euphoria over the first two rounds of quantitative
easing by the Federal Reserve and Operation Twist. The Greek
debt crisis in early 2010 ended the QE1 stock rally. The QE2-
spawned bull market ended in early 2011 with the second flare-up
of Greek worries and the widening European financial and
economic woes. The optimism generated by Operation Twist
concluded with the realization that Europe’s travails may be
unsolvable, and with worries about the fiscal cliff in the U.S.  Forecasting specific jolts is hazardous, though I can list
several possibilities.  China Effect  A hard landing in China might do the job, with growth
slowing to between 5 percent and 6 percent, especially after the
effect is felt in world trade, commodities demand and prices and
commodity producers’ currencies. There is a growing consensus
that this is in the cards. That view could account for the
recent embryonic shift from “risk on” positions -- the quartet
of short Treasury bonds, long stocks, short the U.S. dollar and
long commodities -- to the reverse “risk off” trades.  A fall off the fiscal cliff is another possibility. If
Congress and the administration don’t act by the end of this
year, the Bush-era tax cuts will expire, the payroll tax on
employees reverts to 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent, unemployment
benefits drop from a 99-week maximum to 26 weeks, and $1.2
trillion in mandatory federal-spending cuts and tax increases
over 10 years begin to kick in. The nonpartisan Congressional
Budget Office estimates that the fiscal cliff will cut 2013
gross domestic product by 4 percent. In itself, that has the
makings of a major recession, and its effects would be
compounded in an already recessionary economy.  I believe that the U.S. government will avoid the fiscal
cliff, at least temporarily. Even the representatives and
senators affiliated with the Tea Party want to be re-elected,
and telling their constituents that austerity is good for their
souls won’t garner them many votes. With the current Congress
and administration gridlocked, they could use a so-called lame-
duck session after the election to postpone the tax increases
and spending cuts, leaving the next Congress and administration
to deal with the mess. That’s what happened last December --when
they negotiated a three-month respite -- and again in February,
when they delayed action for the rest of this year.  Or they could wait for a new administration to be sworn in
and tackle the fiscal cliff retroactively.  Fiscal Cliff  One way or the other, I doubt the economy will go off the
fiscal cliff. An old friend, former Representative Barber Conable of New York, who served as the ranking Republican on the
House Ways and Means Committee and later as president of the
World Bank, often told me that “Congress ultimately does the
necessary thing, but only when forced to and as late as
possible.”  Few in  Washington  are likely to stand on principle and let
the economy fall into an abyss.  I doubt that many U.S. businesspeople and consumers believe
the fiscal cliff won’t be averted, even though many cite the
threat as a rationale for the general uncertainty that is
retarding spending and capital investment. Note, however, that
defusing the fiscal-cliff menace won’t add stimulus to the
economy. It will simply keep existing  government spending  and
tax rates intact.  Another possibility is that a surge in the price of oil,
possibly triggered by an Iran-related crisis in the Middle East,
shatters investor euphoria. That’s what happened with the oil
embargo in 1973 and  Iran ’s Islamic Revolution in 1979. To be
sure, the U.S. is becoming less dependent on imported energy,
and little of the imported  oil  is from the Middle East. But
petroleum is fungible and price increases elsewhere will affect
the U.S., along with  Europe  and China. A huge energy-cost
increase would be a debilitating tax on already-stressed
consumers.  There also is the danger that a major European bank will
fail, generating a global financial crisis. Banks are so
intertwined through loans, leases, derivatives and other
instruments that a blow in Europe would be felt around the
world.  Banks normally look at their derivatives exposure on a net
basis after hedges and other offsets are accounted for. But the
gross or notional value of derivatives is 26 times the net,
according to the Bank for International Settlements, and if a
bank goes belly up, the counterparties are stuck with the
notional amount.  Corporate Earnings  Add major corporate-earnings disappointments to the list of
possible shocks. Ever-optimistic Wall Street analysts believe
 Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  operating earnings fell slightly in the
third quarter compared with the year-earlier period, but a 14
percent revival is expected in the fourth quarter. Yet suppose
my forecast is correct and operating earnings drop to $80 per
share over four consecutive quarters, due to recession-induced
declines in corporate revenues, a narrowing of profit margins
from record levels and currency-translation losses as the dollar
strengthens. That $80 is more than 20 percent lower than
analysts’ estimates, and would be a big disappointment to many
bullish investors.  QE1, QE2 and Operation Twist got increasingly larger bangs
for the buck. But that isn’t the case with QE3 and recent
actions by the European Central Bank, at least so far. Each
successive announcement by the Fed and ECB got less pop in the
S&P 500. Since peaking Sept. 14, the day after QE3 was
announced, that index has been relatively flat, in contrast to
gains in comparable days of trading after the three earlier
quantitative easings. Treasuries, which changed little after the
first rounds of easing, had a brief rally.  It’s early into QE3, but does this suggest that investors
are getting cautious and wary, and believe the Fed has gone back
to the well one time too often? Are investors anticipating a
hard landing in China or one of the other shocks I outlined?  This series makes clear that I disagree with the “It’s so
bad, it’s good” crowd. Conditions are so bad, they are just
plain bad. The huge monetary and fiscal stimulus in the U.S. and
elsewhere in the past five years has failed to offset the
gigantic deleveraging in global private sectors. And such
measures are unlikely to do so until that process is completed
in another five to seven years.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the fifth in a five-part series.
Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 4 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: In a signed editorial,  Michael R. Bloomberg
endorses President Barack Obama  for re-election.  Also, the editors on the  Greek debt buyback ; Stephen Carter on
the  election night concession speech ; Ezra Klein on a  unified
field theory of Romney ; Jonathan Mahler on Dan Okrent, the
 founder of Rotisserie baseball ; Amity Shlaes on how  disasters
make government bigger ; Carl Pope on the Republican defense of
an  obsolete economy .  To contact the writer of this article:
Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  