-- Priceline Rises as Profit Tops Estimates on Europe Sales
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-11-02T20:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/priceline-profit-tops-estimates-as-bookings-ease-europe-concern.html
Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) , the most valuable
online-travel agency, rose the most in two years after reporting
profit that topped analysts’ estimates as consumers flocked to
the site, assuaging concerns that Europe’s financial crisis
would crimp demand.  Third-quarter net income jumped 27 percent to $596.6
million, or $11.66 a share, from $469.5 million, or $9.17, a
year earlier, the Norwalk, Connecticut-based company said
yesterday in a statement. Analysts had  predicted  per-share
profit of $10.90, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Through its  acquisition  of Amsterdam-based Booking.com in
2005, Priceline has beaten rivals in expanding across Europe,
where online-hotel bookings were slower to emerge than in the
U.S. While Priceline’s forecast in August trailed estimates
because turmoil in  Europe  curtailed reservations in the region,
the company has won business from those continuing to travel.  “Our forecast for the third quarter assumed that
macroeconomic conditions will deteriorate further,” Daniel Finnegan, Priceline’s chief financial officer, said on a call
with analysts yesterday. “We were pleasantly surprised to see
conditions in Europe stabilize at least for the time being.”  Priceline  rose  8.3 percent to $634.74 at the close in  New
York , and is up 36 percent this year.  Hurricane Impact  The company forecast fourth-quarter profit, excluding
certain costs, of $6.12 to $6.57 a share, compared with $6.30,
the average estimate of analysts. Adjusted earnings before
interest, taxation, depreciation and amortization will be $381
million to $421 million, compared with the average analyst
estimate of $401.9 million.  While conditions in Europe and the travel industry may be
improving, the company is giving conservative  guidance , said
Michael Millman of  Short Hills , New Jersey-based Millman
Research Associates.  “They tend to blow it away,” Millman said. “We may be
getting close to a bottom. We’re not there yet, and I don’t
think anyone is going to go out on a limb and say we are.”  Hurricane Sandy , the superstorm that struck the Northeast
this week, will reduce bookings and increase cancellations for
 New York City  for many days, Priceline Chief Executive Officer
Jeffery Boyd said on the conference call.  Airport Closures  Sandy forced all three major New York airports to close.
 LaGuardia Airport  started receiving flights yesterday,
completing the reopening of the region’s aviation hubs, after
operations resumed at  John F. Kennedy International Airport  and
Newark Liberty International Airport on Oct. 31.  “Given that most of our business is for travel to
international destinations, our best estimate at this time is
that the negative effect of Hurricane Sandy will fall within the
range of our guidance for the fourth quarter,” Boyd said.  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , Priceline’s smaller competitor, reported
third-quarter earnings last week that exceeded analysts’
estimates. International revenue, which accounts for more than
40 percent of its business, climbed 22 percent in the period
from a year earlier, leading to a 4.2 percent increase in
Expedia’s profit to $188 million.  Expedia’s shares declined 1 percent to close at $59.07 in
New York. The stock has more than doubled this year.  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP) , an online travel-recommendation service
spun off from Expedia, yesterday reported third-quarter earnings
that topped analysts’s estimates as advertising growth helped
revenue increase 18 percent to $212.7 million.  Shares of TripAdvisor surged 19 percent to $35.12, and have
advanced 39 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  