-- Rand Gains Versus Dollar as Marcus Says Rate Cuts Not Automatic
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-11-01T14:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/rand-gains-yields-rise-as-marcus-says-rate-cuts-not-automatic.html
South Africa’s rand gained after
Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said investors shouldn’t
assume the central bank will automatically cut rates to boost
growth.  The rand advanced as much as 0.3 percent, and traded 0.1
percent stronger at 8.6667 per dollar as of 3:46 p.m. in
Johannesburg, reversing an earlier decline of 0.3 percent.
Yields on 13.5 percent bonds due September 2015 were unchanged
at 5.48 percent.  Policy makers remain ready to act in “whatever way is
necessary” as they weigh inflation risks against weaker
economic growth, Marcus said in her first interview with
Bloomberg TV at her offices in  Pretoria , the capital, yesterday.
The bank’s primary responsibility is to control inflation, she
said. Inflation accelerated for a second month to 5.5 percent in
September. Lower rates would erode the rand’s yield advantage
over the dollar, damping demand for the South African currency.  “Expectations for a rate cut are certainly being pared
back,” Mohammed Nalla, head of strategic research at Nedbank
Capital, a unit of  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , said by phone from
Johannesburg. “Our base case is for rates to stay flat for
longer.”  Forward-rate agreements starting in a year, used to
speculate on  interest rates , climbed five basis points to 5.10
percent, the highest since Aug. 18. Two-year  interest-rate
swaps , used to lock in borrowing costs, rose four basis points
to 5.16 percent, indicating that traders are pricing in a rate
increase in the next two years.  The rand is also being boosted by higher commodity prices
after a purchasing managers’ index showed China’s manufacturing
industry expanded last month. Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index
advanced for a second day as the prices of metals, including
copper, rose.  China is the biggest buyer of South African raw materials.
Metals and other commodities account for 45 percent of the
nation’s exports, according to government data.  “The currency should find some support from” the increase
in China’s PMI,  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, currency
strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-
mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  