-- RBS Freezes Dead BBC Star’s Estate Over Sex-Abuse Suits
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-11-01T12:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/rbs-unit-natwest-freezes-dead-bbc-star-s-assets-over-sex-claims.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s
NatWest unit froze the estate of late British Broadcasting Corp.
television star Jimmy Savile in anticipation of possible legal
claims alleging he sexually abused girls for decades.  “Given the claims raised, distribution of the estate has
been put on hold,” NatWest said today in an e-mailed statement.
The bank has been the executor for Savile’s assets since the
former host of a popular  BBC  children’s program, “Jim’ll Fix
It,” died last year at the age of 84.  London police are probing allegations that Savile may have
abused more than 300 people as early as 1959, sometimes in
collusion with other adults. The  BBC , the world’s largest public
broadcaster, is running internal probes and cooperating with
police and lawmakers investigating the alleged incidents.  The estate may be sued by alleged victims who “only have
claims against Savile himself” instead of the BBC or other
entities, said Liz Dux, a lawyer at Russell Jones & Walker
Solicitors, who is representing at least 20 people.  U.K. lawyers including David Foster, with Barlow Robbins
LLP in Guildford,  England , who isn’t involved in the cases, have
said the BBC could face years of litigation and suffer
reputational damage for allegedly failing to protect children
from Savile. Hospitals and children’s homes where Savile is
suspected of accessing youths could also be sued.  Granted Wishes  The scandal was brought to light in a documentary by
broadcaster  ITV Plc (ITV)  last month that featured several women
accusing the host of BBC’s “Top of the Pops” music show of
sexual abuse when they were teens. Savile, who was knighted in
1990, granted children’s wishes, such as meeting celebrities, on
the “Jim’ll Fix It” show.  Savile retained his popularity in Britain after the shows
ended, using his fame to promote charity work that gave him
access to children. Savile, a friend of Prince Charles who
stayed at  Margaret Thatcher ’s country home when she was prime
minister, died a year ago last month, two days before his 85th
birthday. The Guardian newspaper’s obituary described him as the
“eccentric king of children’s TV.”  The asset freeze was reported yesterday by the Financial
Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  