-- Realogy Loss Widens as Expenses Wipe Out Revenue Increase
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-11-01T21:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/realogy-loss-widens-as-expenses-wipe-out-revenue-increase.html
Realogy Holdings Corp. (RLGY) , owner of
brokerage brands Coldwell Banker and Century 21, reported a
wider third-quarter loss as expenses overshadowed sales gains.  The net loss was $34 million, compared with $28 million a
year earlier, Parsippany, New Jersey-based Realogy said in a
statement today. The third quarter results included $187 million
of interest expense and $42 million of depreciation and
amortization. Revenue increased 11 percent to $1.3 billion.  Realogy went public last month as the U.S. property market
started to climb out of the worst crash since the Great
Depression. The company raised $1.2 billion in its initial
public offering, including an over-allotment, and planned to use
proceeds of the sale to help reduce debt.  “The early-stage housing market recovery that we spoke of
in the first two quarters of the year continued in the third
quarter of 2012,” Chief Executive Officer  Richard Smith  said in
the statement. “Once again, we experienced strong year-over-
year gains in home-sale units and average home sale price as the
housing market continued its recovery.”  Realogy, which also provides relocation and title and
settlement services, said its franchise group’s number of
transaction customers increased 5 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, while the NRT brokerage unit’s jumped 12
percent. Realogy Franchise Group’s average home sale price
climbed 9 percent to $218,866, the company said.  Home Prices  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of home prices in 20 U.S. cities
rose 2 percent in August from a year earlier, the biggest gain
since July 2010, the group said this week.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the New York-based private-
equity firm run by  Leon Black , acquired Realogy in 2007 in the
largest leveraged buyout of a real estate services firm on
record and remains the company’s largest  shareholder . Realogy
has about 13,500 franchised and company-owned real estate
brokerage offices with 239,500 sales representatives, according
to the statement.  Realogy rose 1.2 percent to $35.96 today at the close of
 New York  trading. The shares have gained 33 percent since their
IPO at $27 each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  