-- Treasuries Drop, Snap Three-Day Gain, on U.S. Reports
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-11-01T21:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/treasuries-fall-as-market-opens-after-sandy-home-prices.html
Treasuries fell, snapping a three-day
gain, as reports on U.S. employment and manufacturing indicated
the economic expansion may strengthen, damping haven demand.  U.S. debt  remained lower  as weekly jobless insurance claims
were lower than forecast and a gauge of U.S. factories expanded
more than forecast last month. Treasuries declined for a third
month in October, the longest slide since the last quarter of
2010, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The
Labor Department is forecast to report tomorrow that 125,000
workers were added to payrolls, according to economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  “People are looking ahead towards payrolls and the
election,” said Justin Lederer, an interest rate strategist at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Federal Reserve. “Data was obviously a little
stronger.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.72 percent at 5:02 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent
note due in August 2022 fell 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 3/32.  Trading Activity  Treasury trading volume  rebounded  yesterday. ICAP Plc, the
largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt, said
trading totaled $250 after falling to a 10-month low of $82
billion on Oct. 29.  The yearly average is $241.8 billion a day
in 2012.  Investors in Treasuries reduced bearish bets to the lowest
level since June, while increasing neutral positions, according
to a survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co. The proportion of net longs
was at six percentage points in the week ending yesterday,
according to JPMorgan. The levels of bullish and bearish bets
were equal the previous week.  Treasuries are “unlikely” to produce higher returns in
the next few years, James W. Paulsen, chief investment
strategist at Wells Capital Management Inc. in  Minneapolis ,
wrote in a  report .  The Fed is swapping its holdings of shorter-term Treasuries
with those due in six years to 30 years to put downward pressure
on long-term borrowing costs. This month, the central bank will
buy about $47 billion of Treasuries and sell about $37 billion,
while redeeming about $100 million, according to the Fed Bank of
New York’s website.  Fed Buys  The central bank bought $1.85 billion of securities due
from February 2036 to May 2042 today as part of the program.
Today’s purchase was rescheduled from Oct. 30, when it was
postponed due to  Hurricane Sandy .  The Institute for Supply Management’s U.S. factory index
rose to 51.7 in October from 51.5 a month earlier, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today.  Economists in a Bloomberg survey projected a reading of 51
for October, according to the median of 88 forecasts. The
dividing line between expansion and contraction is 50, and
economists’ estimates ranged from 49.2 to 52.5.  Companies added 158,000 workers in October, according to a
private report based on payrolls. The increase in employment was
higher than forecast, data from the Roseland, New Jersey-based
ADP Research Institute showed today. This is the first ADP
report derived using a larger sample and new methodology.  Jobs Data  The median forecast of 37 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected a 131,000 advance. Estimates ranged from 80,000 to
170,000. The previous methodology showed a gain of 162,000 jobs
in September.  Applications for jobless benefits fell 9,000 to 363,000 in
the week ended Oct. 27, the fewest in three weeks, the Labor
Department reported today in  Washington . Economists forecast
370,000 claims, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey.  “From today’s data, we’re getting a little bit of a
selloff because the news was a little better than expected,”
William Larkin, a fixed-income money manager who helps oversee
$500 million at Cabot Money Management Inc. in Salem,
 Massachusetts , said in a telephone interview. “Incrementally,
things are getting better. Going into this nonfarm number it’s
better to be neutral to short, because economic data has been
moderate to improving, and it’s likely that that’s going to
surface in the unemployment data.”  Labor Report  The U.S. jobless rate climbed to 7.9 percent in October
from 7.8 percent in September, another Bloomberg survey of
economists showed before the Labor Department data tomorrow. It
will be the last of the monthly employment reports before the
Nov. 6 presidential election.  “The market is obsessed with the jobs report and the
election,” said  Michael Cloherty , head of U.S. interest rate
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in
New York, one of 21 firms that trade directly with the Fed.
“Not much else has mattered of late as even  Europe  has taken
somewhat of a backseat.”  A Chinese manufacturing gauge based on a survey of
purchasing managers climbed to 50.2 in October from 49.8 in
September, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in Beijing. Readings
above 50 signal expansion. South Korea’s exports unexpectedly
increased in October, Statistics Korea said.  After Storm  Treasuries rose yesterday as trading resumed following the
market closing on Oct. 30 for Hurricane Sandy. The storm may
reduce output in the world’s largest economy by $25 billion in
the fourth quarter, according to Gregory Daco, a U.S. economist
at IHS Global Insight. He said that may cut the fourth-quarter
pace of growth to a range of 1 percent to 1.5 percent, from the
company’s earlier estimate of 1.6 percent.  Treasury yields “should stay low” as Fed stimulus is
failing to spur companies to invest in production, Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross   wrote  in a monthly
investment outlook published on the company’s website.  “Financial repression and quantitative easing were
supposed to be the extraordinary monetary policies that kick
started the real economy,” but they haven’t succeeded, wrote
Gross, who runs the world’s biggest bond fund.  The Treasury 10-year yield will rise to 2.07 percent by
June 30, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists with the
most recent projections given the heaviest weightings. The yield
dropped to a record 1.379 percent on July 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  