-- RedPrairie Agrees to Buy JDA Software for $1.9 Billion
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-11-01T20:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/redprairie-agrees-to-purchase-jda-software-in-1-9-billion-deal.html
RedPrairie Corp., backed by private-
equity firm New Mountain Capital LLC, agreed to acquire  JDA
Software Group Inc. (JDAS)  in a $1.9 billion deal that merges two
providers of software for managing corporate supply chains.  RedPrairie and New Mountain Capital will pay $45 a share, a
33 percent premium over JDA’s stock price on Oct. 26 before
speculation of the deal surfaced, according to a statement
today. The board of Scottsdale, Arizona-based JDA has approved
the transaction.  The deal will create a supply-chain  software company  with
more than $1 billion in revenue. Adding JDA, which is focused on
merchandising and product pricing, will help RedPrarie expand
beyond its traditional businesses in warehousing, store
operations and e-commerce, said  Richard Williams , an analyst at
Cross Research.  “A lot of customers were buying both, and there was not
much overlap between the two,” Williams said in an interview.  JDA shares advanced 17 percent to $44.76 at the close in
 New York , the biggest gain in more than three years.  “This is a strong combination of two leading companies
with highly complementary product suites,” Hamish Brewer, JDA
president and chief executive officer, said in the statement.
Brewer will retain the CEO role at the combined company, while
RedPrairie CEO Michael Mayoras will serve on the board.  The purchase, which the companies expect to complete this
year, will be financed with debt from  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN) 
New Mountain Capital, based in New York, will invest additional
cash to fund the transaction.  Greenhill & Co. and Credit Suisse served as financial
advisers to RedPrairie, with Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver &
Jacobson LLP acting as legal counsel.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was
JDA’s financial adviser. DLA Piper LLP provided legal counsel to
JDA, and Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP represented the independent
directors on JDA’s board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  