-- Repo Rates Remain Higher as Hurricane Sandy Disrupts
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-11-01T16:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/repo-rates-remain-higher-as-hurricane-sandy-disrupts.html
Rates on collateralized loans in the
market for borrowing and lending Treasuries are above the
average for the past year after jumping to the highest level
since 2008 after  Hurricane Sandy  forced markets to close.  The overnight  general  collateral repurchase rate, the cost
to borrow Treasuries for cash for one day, was at 0.324 today,
nearly double the 0.186 average since November 2011. It reached
0.729 percent on Oct. 29, the most in four years, after trading
volumes slowed as the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association recommended that dealing in dollar-denominated
fixed-income securities end early that day and be canceled on
Oct. 30. American stock markets closed for both days in the
longest weather-related shutdown in more than a century.  Sandy, the Atlantic’s largest-recorded tropical storm,
slammed into the East Coast Oct. 29, emptying the streets of
some of the nation’s largest cities and lashing a region of 60
million with gales and rain. The storm, 900 miles across, may
cause as much as $50 billion in economic damage, according to
Eqecat Inc., a risk-management company in Oakland,  California .  “Whenever you are in a stressful situation, people’s goals
are just to make sure they get their firm financed, and they
don’t worry as much about every basis point,” said  Michael Cloherty , head of U.S. interest-rate strategy in  New York  at
Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, one of 21 firms
that trade directly with the  Federal Reserve . “In times of
stress and illiquidity like this week, people pay a little more
than they normally would just to make sure they complete their
financing.”  Before Sandy  The average overnight Treasury general collateral repo rate
this year through Oct. 26, the last trading day before Sandy
struck, was 0.20 percent, according to ICAP Plc, the world’s
largest interdealer broker.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. The agreements are a form of collateralized
loan, in which one party offers a security as collateral for a
cash loan.  “People were scrambling from the effects of Sandy as the
market was extremely illiquid, and now they are scrambling to
get back to normal,” said  Joseph Abate , money-market strategist
in New York at Barclays Plc, another primary dealer. “But the
displacement was just a blip, and by next week when things are
restored and the power everywhere is back on, the general
collateral rate should be back near the recent range of 0.25 to
0.28 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  