-- Restoration Hardware Seeks Premium in IPO as Home Sales Improve
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-11-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/restoration-hardware-seeks-premium-in-ipo-as-home-sales-improve.html
Restoration Hardware Holdings Inc. (RH)  is
betting investors will be willing to pay a 60 percent premium to
buy shares in its initial public offering as the home-furnishing
retailer’s profits surge and the housing market recovers.  The Corte Madera, California-based company and shareholders
are seeking as much as $123.9 million in the sale today,
offering 5.2 million shares for $22 to $24 each, according to
regulatory filings. The midpoint values Restoration Hardware at
$850.3 million, or 26 times net income in the 12 months through
July, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s almost two-thirds
more than the average of 16 for home retailers  Williams-Sonoma
Inc. (WSM) ,  Ethan Allen Interiors Inc. (ETH)  and  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY)   Restoration Hardware, the seller of leather couches and
tables made of salvaged wood, increased net income more than
sixfold in the 12 months through July by closing stores and
selling more online and through catalogs. Now, the company is
positioned to benefit from continued sales growth as U.S.
housing starts climb to the highest level in four years,
according to Ipox Schuster LLC’s Josef Schuster.  “That’s where the offering comes in, to capture the
imagination of continued positive momentum in the U.S. housing
market,” Schuster, founder of the Chicago-based firm that
oversees about $2 billion, said in a phone interview. “There’s
definitely money out there for this kind of deal.”  The shares being offered represent a 14 percent stake in
Restoration Hardware, regulatory filings show. The company is
offering 4.8 million of the shares in the sale, while management
and other holders are selling about 382,000 shares.  Direct Sales  Net income at Restoration Hardware jumped in the 12 months
through July to $33.1 million compared with $4.9 million a year
earlier, according to filings. Sales increased 22 percent in the
same period to $1.05 billion.  The company reduced its number of stores to 74 from 95 in
the two years through January, reversing a $28.7 million annual
net loss to $20.6 million of profit, regulatory filings show.
Revenue from direct-to-consumer sales increased to 46 percent of
sales in the last 12 months compared with 39 percent in the year
through January 2010, according to the filings.  The housing recovery and improving consumer sentiment will
fuel demand for furniture and help propel further profit growth
at Restoration Hardware, according to Ipox’s Schuster.  Housing Starts  Housing starts in the U.S. surged 15 percent in September
to the highest level in four years, adding to signs of a revival
in the industry at the heart of the financial crisis.  Consumer
confidence  rose to a five-year high in October, an economic
report showed last week, suggesting that the real-estate revival
is bolstering household finances and will help sustain gains in
spending.  Including net debt, the midpoint of the offering range
values Restoration Hardware at $903.6 million including net
debt, or about 13 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of $67.5 million in the 12-month
period, filings show. That’s also higher than Williams-Sonoma,
 Ethan Allen  and Bed Bath, which have an average enterprise
value-to-Ebitda ratio of 9.3 times for comparable periods, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company also cites an adjusted Ebitda of $87.3 million
in the same period that excludes one-time charges for things
such as non-cash compensation and the $2 million cost of an
investigation into a personal relationship between former co-
Chief Executive Officer Gary Friedman and an employee, according
to filings.  Friedman’s Departure  Restoration Hardware is moving ahead with the offering
after Friedman announced in August he would step down. The 55-
year-old, who has frequently appeared in the large catalogs for
which the company is known, will stay on as an adviser and board
observer, the filing shows. As of yesterday, a letter from him
is on the home page of the company’s website,  citing   Don Quixote 
and ending with the words “Carpe Diem.”  “Friedman’s leadership and creative talents were important
contributors to the company’s performance during his tenure,”
Restoration Hardware said in its regulatory filings. “There can
be no assurance that the absence of Mr. Friedman in his former
roles will not have an adverse impact on us.”  The shake-up involving Friedman isn’t likely to affect the
company’s operations going forward,  Francis Gaskins , president
of IPOdesktop.com in  Marina Del Rey ,  California , said in a phone
interview .  “At this stage, they’re a mature brand that can be
managed,” Gaskins said. “I don’t think they need the star
power of the entrepreneur.”  $200,000 Incomes  Friedman, who is not selling in the IPO, will own about a
16 percent stake in Restoration Hardware after the offering,
worth about $133 million at the midpoint of the range, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Restoration Hardware didn’t name competitors in its
filings. It operates in a market “characterized by smaller,
independent competitors” and targets consumers with household
incomes of $200,000 or higher, according to filings.  “It’s got good growth, it’s got good trend lines, and if
those trend lines continue, it’ll be fine,” Gaskins said.
“People like to buy branded companies that can participate in
the macro trend.”  Restoration Hardware, previously listed on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, was bought by a group including Friedman and private
equity firm Catterton Partners in 2008. After the IPO, Catterton
will hold a 32 percent stake, filings show.  The IPO will go ahead as scheduled despite disruptions in
 New York  caused by  Hurricane Sandy  this week, according to a
person familiar with the situation, who declined to be named
because the information is private. Southcross Energy Partners
LP, the Dallas-based provider of natural gas gathering and
transmission services, pushed its planned offering back by one
day to today because of disruptions caused by the storm, said
another person, who also declined to be named.  Restoration Hardware will be listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol RH. Bank of America Corp. and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. are leading the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  