-- Trident Upgrade Cheaper Than Liberal Democrat Plan, Hammond Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-11-01T16:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/trident-upgrade-cheaper-than-liberal-democrat-plan-hammond-says.html
Defense Secretary Philip Hammond
risked inflaming coalition tensions by saying an upgrade of
Britain’s submarine-based Trident deterrent would be cheaper
than alternatives being examined by the Liberal Democrats.  Trident missiles and warheads have years of life left and
only the Vanguard-class submarines that carry them need to be
replaced, Hammond, a Conservative Party lawmaker, told the  Royal
United Services Institute  in  London  today.  “It is difficult to envisage a new complete system in
which you would have to design everything -- warheads, missiles,
carriers, platforms -- from scratch could ever be a more
economical proposition,” he said.  Hammond pledged 353 million pounds ($570 million) for the
development of submarines on Oct. 29, prompting Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg  to accuse people of “jumping the gun”
after U.K. media reported that the investment amounted to a
government commitment to retaining Trident. Clegg’s Liberal
Democrat party is committed to making the case for alternative
deterrents.  In May last year the U.K. announced 3 billion pounds of
spending for the design phase of Trident replacement. On the
same day the government said it was setting up the Trident
Alternatives Review, headed by Liberal Democrat Chief Secretary
to the Treasury  Danny Alexander .  The review, to be published either later this year or early
next year, will help inform the Liberal Democrats’ position on a
replacement for Trident in the run-up to the next general
election in 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  