-- Roast Goose Family Fights as Asia Estate Battles Increase
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-11-01T00:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/roast-goose-family-fights-as-asia-estate-battles-increase.html
Kam Shui-Fai’s roast goose restaurant
Yung Kee, founded in Hong Kong in 1942 with about $500 in
savings, was so successful it won a star in Michelin’s 2009
guide for the city and is now worth at least $169 million.  Six years after Kam’s 2004 death, his eldest son Kinsen
sued the family company alleging that his younger brother had
shut him out of management and sent a letter of “hatred and
vindictiveness” to their mother. Kinsen Kam died on Oct. 5,
before Hong Kong High Court Judge Jonathan Harris ruled on the
case in a decision released yesterday.  The Kam dispute follows other family battles in Hong Kong
courts, including the world’s biggest legal fight for the estate
of property tycoon Nina Wang, valued at one time at $12 billion,
and 90-year-old casino billionaire Stanley Ho suing some of his
children and their mothers last year. Insufficient estate
planning and recent legal changes may have contributed to a rise
in such battles, lawyers including Marcus Dearle said.  “It is now far harder to settle high net worth cases,”
the Hong Kong and  Singapore  managing partner at law firm Withers
said, noting that divorce battles have increased following a
2010 ruling that an equal split of assets should be the default.  In December, Dearle’s client Florence Tsang won a record
$160 million divorce judgment from a Hong Kong court, which said
she was entitled to properties in  London  and Hong Kong, HK$5
million ($645,161) for a yacht and HK$4.6 million for joining
social clubs in both cities.  More Money  About a quarter of the world’s high net-worth individuals
now reside in Asia,  Africa  or Latin America, according to an
October global wealth report by Credit Suisse Group AG, and
 China  may surpass  Japan  to be the second wealthiest country by
household assets by 2017.  “There is a lot more money to fight over,” said Richard
Norridge, a lawyer with Herbert Smith Freehills in Hong Kong who
advises on succession issues. “The abolition of the estate duty
in Hong Kong and Singapore may also have led the wealthy to pay
less attention to structuring their affairs to avoid tax.”  Hong Kong’s estate tax was abolished in 2006 and
Singapore’s in 2008. Only about half of people in Asia have a
will, in contrast with nearly 94 percent of people in the U.S.
who do, according to a  2011 report  from Barclays Plc’s wealth
management service on succession issues.  SJM Holdings  Stanley Ho sued five of his 17 children and two of the
women he calls “wives” in January 2011 over a $1.6 billion
stake in Asia’s biggest casino company,  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) ,
alleging that they transferred his share to themselves without
his consent.  After two months in court, during which SJM shares fell
seven percent, a settlement was reached in which Angela Leong,
the mother of Ho’s five youngest children, said that family
members had agreed on “balanced participation” in the
business.  The estate of Ning Wang, Asia’s richest woman when she died
in 2007, was fought over for five years by a former adviser who
claimed she left it to him in a will. Wang herself had fought
her father-in-law in court for six years over the fortune.  Another protracted battle for the estimated $18 billion
fortune left by Taiwanese entrepreneur Wang Yung-ching has
lasted four years across at least three legal jurisdictions.
Wang founded Formosa Plastics Group in 1954 and built it into a
company with $60 billion in annual sales before he died in 2008.
He left behind a wife, two other women who were mother to his
nine children, and no will.  Offshore Trusts  His eldest son, Winston Wong, last year sued three of his
half-siblings in Hong Kong for siphoning off assets into
offshore trusts and betraying his father’s wish for family
unity. Wong brought a similar lawsuit in New Jersey in 2009 and
has also pursued litigation in  Taiwan .  “Many family relationships can break down amid feelings of
entitlement or betrayal,” said  Gavin Lewis , the head of Asia
disputes at Herbert Smith Freehills. “What distinguishes Asian
and Hong Kong families is the large companies that are still in
private hands.”  In the Yung Kee roast goose restaurant case, Judge Harris
dismissed Kinsen Kam’s request that his brother be ordered to
buy his stake in the business, or that it be wound up, because
the family’s wealth exists in a company incorporated in the
British Virgin Islands. Courts there should decide the dispute,
Harris ruled.  In a 76-page  ruling , the judge decided other issues such as
the potential value of Kinsen Kam’s stake if it was sold.  An unfortunate feature of this case is that the parties
agreed in principle that one brother should buy the other’s
shares, but they couldn’t agree on a price, the judge said.  His decision on valuation will hopefully assist the parties
with an amicable solution “without the need for further
recourse to the courts.”  The case is re Yung Kee Holdings Ltd., HCCW154/2010 in the
Hong Kong Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  