-- Romania Will Probably Leave Rates Unchanged at Last 2012 Meeting
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-11-01T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/romania-will-probably-leave-rates-unchanged-at-last-2012-meeting.html
Romania  will probably leave its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged at the last meeting this year
on concerns over slowing economic growth as policy makers wait
for a recent spike in inflation to ease.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei will keep its policy rate at
5.25 percent, the lowest on record, for a fifth meeting today,
according to all 21 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . A decision
will be announced after 11 a.m. in Bucharest and will be
followed by a briefing by Governor Mugur Isarescu.  The Romanian central bank has been in a wait-and-see mode
since May, when it stopped cutting rates to spur slowing
economic growth, after political turmoil knocked the leu to a
record low and drought-driven food prices spurred inflation to
its fastest in a year in September.  “Subdued domestic demand and the determination of the
government to continue its relationship with the IMF after 2013
speak against an emergency hike,” Banca Comercial Romana SA
economist Eugen Sinca wrote in a note to clients. “However, if
household inflation expectations deteriorate strongly and
second-round inflation effects arise in the economy, we would
not rule out a gradual increase in 2013.”  Central banks in the region are cutting rates or
considering easing monetary policy to boost their economies.
Hungary cut its main interest rate on Oct. 30 for a third month
to 6.25 percent and may consider further easing on concern about
a recession, while the Czechs dropped borrowing costs to a
record-low 0.05 percent yesterday.  Political Turmoil  Romanian policy makers lowered rates 1 percentage point
before pausing on May 2 after the government collapsed and
economic growth slowed.  Gross domestic product  will grow 0.9
percent this year compared with 2.5 percent last year, according
to the  International Monetary Fund . Romania has a two-year 5
billion-euro precautionary agreement with the IMF and the
European Union, which expires next year, and is considering
extending it, Premier Victor Ponta said June 8.  Romanian  inflation  accelerated more than forecast to the
fastest in more than a year in September as rising food and
energy costs threaten to push price growth above the central
bank’s target for this year.  The rate rose to 5.3 percent in September from a year
earlier, exceeding the central bank’s forecast for the third
quarter of 3.5 percent. The bank has a 2012 inflation target of
2 percent to 4 percent.  Romania’s central bank shouldn’t hurry to increase  interest
rates  as September’s surprise pickup in inflation is temporary,
Lucian Croitoru, a monetary policy adviser to Isarescu, said in
an interview on Oct. 10. Inflation will return within the
targeted band by next year, as the recent price-growth spike is
“transitory,” Isarescu said in Warsaw on Oct. 18.  “It’s unrealistic to say that this year’s target can still
be reached,” Croitoru said at the time. “It would take another
price shock in the opposite direction to bring the rate down
within the targeted band. While that can’t be ruled out, it’s
hard to predict such a move.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  