-- Romanian Prosecutors Probe BRD Official Over Fraud Allegations
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-11-01T13:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/romanian-prosecutors-probe-brd-official-over-fraud-allegations.html
Romanian prosecutors are
investigating a senior banker at  BRD-Groupe Societe Generale SA (BRD) ,
the No. 2 bank, and government officials in connection with an
alleged 22 million-euro ($28 million) bank fraud.  Organized crime prosecutors are probing a 48-member group
that allegedly “obtained significant financial benefits” over
the past two years by obtaining funding with false documents,
the Department for Investigating Organized crime and Terrorism
said in a statement on its website.  The group, which controlled several companies, allegedly
got or tried to get 40 loans from 16 banks, the office said. It
illegally obtained financing from the Economy Ministry to buy
machineries, according to the statement. The allegations also
include money laundering.  BRD Vice President Claudiu Cercel, Aurel Saramet, the head
of the country’s Credit Guarantee Fund for Small- and Medium-
Sized Companies, and three Economy Ministry employees are named
on the website as among those involved in the probe.  Cercel denied allegations, according to Realitatea TV,
while Saramet declined to comment, when brought in for
questioning. BRD said it is aware of the investigation. Cercel
didn’t immediately answer his mobile phone and Saramet’s mobile
appeared to be disconnected.  “The investigation is ongoing and all the facts will be
analyzed under the presumption of innocence,” BRD said in an e-
mailed statement delivered to Bloomberg today. “The bank’s
activity hasn’t been affected by this event and we remain
willing to provide all the needed information to the
authorities.”  The Economy Ministry said in a separate statement that it
will suspend Saramet and the other three employees pending the
investigation.  The prosecutors already raided banks, companies and the
houses of those involved to gather data. They said they will
question about 100 people to help complete the investigation and
take the necessary legal measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  