-- Romney Turns to Platitudes as Business Success Becomes Liability
-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 2012-11-01T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/romney-turns-to-platitudes-as-business-success-becomes-liability.html
Over the course of four political
campaigns, Mitt Romney has inhabited many personas, trying to
meet the needs of the time and the race.  He was a socially liberal Senate hopeful in an unsuccessful
1994 challenge to  Edward Kennedy  in  Massachusetts . Then he was a
social conservative running against  Arizona  Senator John McCain
for the Republican presidential nomination in 2008. His good
fortune in 2012 was that he could run as himself: a businessman
so successful even former President Bill Clinton has lauded his
“sterling career.”  The moment calls for a leader who understands the economy,
management, and the art of empirical decision-making. In that
regard, Romney’s résumé looks tailor-made, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Nov. 5 issue. His career in
strategic consulting and private equity began in the 1970s
during a recession that defied the best efforts of politicians
and business leaders.  It traced the revolution in American corporations that
followed in the ’80s and ’90s, a revolution Romney and his peers
helped drive, and one that made the U.S. as a nation more
competitive.  Turnaround Experience  It offers clear lessons about how government can respond to
such upheavals and how Romney might use his experience to turn
things around.  Yet instead of putting that career at the center of his
campaign, Romney has taken pains to avoid it. After an early
attempt to portray himself as a “job creator” who put 100,000
people to work, he mostly dropped the subject of his time at
Bain Capital LLC.  Ceding that story allowed his opponents to frame the race
around the most unflattering details of his career -- layoffs,
plant closings -- stripped of their broader context, and to
portray Romney as a vulture capitalist.  If he loses, that will be why. Even if he wins, his
candidacy will have reinforced some of the worst stereotypes the
American public has about its business elite.  This could turn out to be one of the great missed
opportunities in politics. And it’s one that perplexes many of
his supporters. Over the last 18 months, the same question kept
coming up, especially from businesspeople: How did a man they
regard as embodying their profession’s finest qualities come to
represent the worst?  National Anxiety  Romney’s achievements should have been a source of
strength, an advantage over a president who has disappointed
hopes for a faster turnaround. Rather than just attacking
President  Barack Obama , Romney could have met the national
anxiety about the economy by explaining how he had helped
companies adapt and how he could help the country do the same.  The narrative for such a campaign is woven throughout
Romney’s career in business and government -- and so is the
reason that he ultimately chose not to tell it.  Romney graduated valedictorian of his class at Brigham
Young University and arrived at Harvard Business School in 1971,
a momentous time to be a business student. The American economy
had been enjoying an almost uninterrupted boom since World
War II, and all at once seemed to collapse.  Inflation soared. Oil prices tripled. Cars lined up at the
gas pump. Japanese and European companies, rebuilt following
World War II, were suddenly trouncing their American
competitors. The economy plunged into recession.  Harvard Years  For a student at the top business school -- a true-
believing capitalist fast-tracked for a pivotal position in
American industry -- there was a further and especially
disturbing sign: No one seemed to have any idea what to do.  To Romney and his classmates, the surge in corporate
conglomeration fueled by the 1960s  bull market , and still
venerated by their professors, appeared to have produced stolid
giants. The challenges facing CEOs were plainly beyond their
skill set, and the economic paralysis reached all the way to the
top. President Richard Nixon -- one of their own -- imposed
price caps.  To outsiders, including Harvard students preoccupied with
the Vietnam War, the aspiring MBAs were consummate organization
men, worlds removed from campus radicalism, and none more so
than  Mitt Romney , with his orderly mien and Republican lineage.
Yet this group was consumed with its own radical struggle: They
thought they could reinvent American capitalism by rethinking
how companies worked.  Intellectual Battle  The intellectual battle pitted academics, including the
Harvard Business School faculty, against an emerging band of
consultants with new ideas about how businesses should be run.
The radicals were led by Bruce Henderson, an engineer who
founded the Boston Consulting Group in 1963.  Since its inception in the 1930s, management consulting had
focused on organizational structure. The thinking was that while
antitrust law kept companies from dominating any one industry, a
company, such as  General Electric Co. (GE) , could still command the
power and leverage that size affords by adding new divisions in
similar industries. Henderson’s innovation -- to look beyond
structure to strategy -- seems obvious today but was heretical
then.  “At the time,  Harvard Business School  had a good deal of
disdain for the views of Bruce Henderson and the Boston
Consulting Group,” Romney told me in a 2007 interview, conducted
between campaign stops in New Hampshire. “Bruce would purchase
advertisements in the Harvest, the weekly newspaper, that were
just his thought pieces, and that’s where I first encountered
them. I thought, ‘This guy sounds brilliant. I like this guy,
and I like what he’s saying.’ The faculty would make fun of the
Boston Consulting Group, but I believed it was right.”  ‘Growth-Share Matrix’  Henderson devised two procedures to steer companies’
behavior that would transform business in the ’70s and ’80s. The
“growth-share matrix” provided a blueprint for gauging the
strengths and weaknesses of a conglomerate’s various divisions
and striking a balance between those with high market share and
those with significant growth potential; a healthy company needs
both.  The “experience curve” demonstrated that early entry into a
market increased profitability and the likelihood of
establishing dominance.  “The students at HBS realized that it wasn’t their teachers
but the consultants who were right on the cutting edge,” says
Christopher McKenna, a business historian at Oxford University.
“So there was this overwhelming sense that if you wanted to be
involved in reshaping the entire nature of industry, you should
become a consultant in this hot new area of strategy.”  Chrysler Stint  Romney had arrived at Harvard intending to take a
traditional job in industry.  “I spent a summer at the Chrysler Corp. because I always
loved the auto industry and aspired someday to be head of a car
company like my dad had done,” Romney said in 2007. “But there
was a paradigm shift going on in the way you thought about
managing a business. I wanted to be part of that intellectual
process, but I also wanted to be able to make a difference. I
realized it would have been years and years before I ever made a
difference at Chrysler, whereas in consulting I could use the
things I was learning.”  Romney didn’t respond to an interview request for this
story.  One of the many frustrations of this year’s presidential
campaign is that neither candidate has presented a compelling
diagnosis of what’s wrong with the  economy  or plausibly
explained how he would actually fix it.  Challenging Consensus  This is particularly significant in Romney’s case; his
whole career was built on challenging old ways of thinking. The
formative decision in his professional life went against the
consensus of the experts and professors he’d studied under.  Rather than go to Chrysler, he took a job at Boston
Consulting Group, joining a movement to renew American
capitalism. His ability to analyze and solve problems made him a
fortune.  By the time Romney left Harvard in 1975, a wave of
entrepreneurialism was changing how businesses were run. Large
but poorly performing companies, undervalued by a nervous
market, saddled with expansive bureaucracies and expensive labor
issues, struggled to compete, and became easy targets for
mergers and consolidations.  Panicked executives turned to firms like BCG for answers,
and Wall Street opened up to new kinds of people.  ‘Great Foment’  “It was a time of great foment and thinking about
strategy,” says William Sahlman, a classmate of Romney’s and now
a Harvard Business School professor. “American business hadn’t
really had to compete for a long period of time. That whole
period was the origin of the shift in the economy toward
knowledge workers and gave rise to a meritocracy where anybody
who was really smart could get a job and do well.”  Romney had plenty of connections to the old pedigreed
world. But his acumen, more than anything else, brought him
success in the new one. Working with chief executive officers,
strategic consultants guided businesses through corporate
successions and transitions, focusing them on doing a few core
things well.  If a company was underperforming, a good consultant could
figure out why and advise on which divisions to shed. If a new
product was under consideration, he -- and it was then almost
entirely men -- could study the market and the competition to
determine how, when, and where to launch it.  Young Consultants  To an almost unimaginable degree, given their age and
experience, consultants still in their 20s and 30s reset the
course of major American businesses, including Chrysler, helping
many CEOs twice their age survive by forcing them to confront
the realities of a new marketplace.  A colleague of Romney’s from this period, seeking to convey
the challenge consultants faced, says that Chrysler executives
firmly believed people would continue to buy Chryslers because
they had always bought Chryslers.  Consultants found that this was a common tendency among
executives: the belief that past success was a strategy for the
future. Romney shone as someone possessed of both the analytical
ability to find the right answer and a presence that inspired
trust in more experienced executives.  Consulting firms were no less prone to upheaval than any
other kind of company. One day in 1973, Bill Bain, a vice
president at BCG and Bruce Henderson’s presumptive heir, walked
into Henderson’s office to announce that he and a colleague were
leaving to start a software company.  Talent Defections  That evening Henderson flew to Spain, only to discover upon
landing that Bain was actually setting up a rival consultancy
and raiding his old employer for talent and prized clients,
including Black & Decker Corp. and  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  Bain
struck again in 1977, stealing five partners, one of whom was
Romney’s mentor. Romney came along, too.  Bill Bain’s primary insight grew out of every consultant’s
dilemma: Brilliant advice doesn’t matter if the client won’t act
on it.  To make sure clients stuck with the plan, Bain & Co. worked
side-by-side with CEOs to devise a strategy, then stayed and saw
it implemented. In return, Bain promised to work exclusively for
one client in any industry.  Such intimate, long-term relationships gave Bain’s people
access to sensitive information, which produced better results
and ensured a steady stream of fees. In 1987, Romney told
Fortune that he thought Bill Bain had attained “a breakthrough
conceptual insight,” though not everyone agreed.  Corporate ‘Tapeworm’  The article likened the firm’s style to “a tapeworm in the
corporate intestine” and its culture to a “Moonie commune run by
the ‘Reverend’ Bain.” Even so, Bain became the prestige firm.  Consultants are a data-driven breed, and Bain’s more than
most. Within Bain, Romney was the most data-obsessed of all. The
answer, he told colleagues, always lay in the numbers.  “Mitt is great at pattern recognition: seeing a problem and
figuring out a way to solve it,” says Howard Anderson, a venture
capitalist who met Romney while he was at Bain. “Those are the
analytic skills that made him a terrific consultant“ -- and that
now guide him as a politician.  People laughed at his “binders full of women” remark in the
second presidential debate, but it reflects Romney’s faith that
everything can be catalogued and quantified.  Bain’s reputation grew to a point where soliciting clients
became unnecessary. The firm developed a Bain Index that
measured its clients’ performance relative to the competition. A
1987 audit by Price Waterhouse showed that the stock market
value of Bain-advised companies had increased by 319 percent
since 1980, while their competitors rose by 67 percent.  Peculiar Frustration  This gave rise to a peculiar frustration among Bain’s
chieftains. The company was growing, though not nearly as fast
as its clients.  “Consulting is a good business to get into and a better
business to get out of,” says Anderson. “To double your
business, you have to double your people.”  Meanwhile, an obscure Labor Department ruling in the late
’70s relaxed investing guidelines known as the Prudent Man Rule,
allowing pension funds to invest in high-risk assets.  That in turn drove the explosion of venture capital in the
’80s that produced such firms as Genentech Inc.,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , and
many of the decade’s other successes. A few investors began to
amass fortunes by buying underperforming companies and breaking
out their divisions one by one.  New Venture  Yet Bain, Romney, and their colleagues were stuck billing
by the hour like a bunch of i-dotting corporate attorneys. To
change this, Bain and his senior partners pooled their money to
fund Bain Capital, a new venture that would buy struggling
companies and invest in promising new ones. Bain chose Romney to
run the company.  On the campaign trail, Romney casts himself as the kind of
risk-taking hero-capitalist Republicans admire. Originally,
however, he balked at Bain’s offer. At 34, and already the
company’s star, he saw too much risk in attaching himself to a
fund that might perform poorly or, worse, go bust.  Bill Bain later told the Boston Globe it was only after
senior managers assured him he could return to his old position
and salary if things didn’t pan out -- and promised to devise a
cover story for any failure -- that Romney agreed to take the
plunge.  In 1984, Bain Capital opened with $37 million that Romney
and his partners planned to divide more or less evenly between
venture investments in new companies and leveraged buyouts of
troubled older ones.  Attractive Targets  The old conglomerates made attractive targets, and banks
competed for the sizable fees to be had from underwriting their
purchase, breakup, and resale.  The junk-bond raiders of the 1980s were the extreme
manifestation of this “strip-and-flip” methodology. The Obama
campaign has gone to great lengths to equate Romney with the
Gordon Gekkos of the world, but Bain never engaged in hostile
takeovers, and Romney was no raider. In fact, he can plausibly
claim to have done more to help business than many private-
equity veterans.  Bain Capital didn’t renounce financial engineering or forgo
every questionable practice, but its founders believed that
their competitive advantage lay in helping companies operate
better by applying the expertise they had gained as consultants.  The culture bore no resemblance to the swashbuckling
raiders portrayed in movies and books -- it was, in the words of
one Bain partner who didn’t want to be named, pathologically
averse to downside risk.  Staples Example  Romney’s favorite campaign-trail anecdote, a rare allusion
to his Bain Capital years, exemplifies this caution, although
that isn’t his intent in telling it. In the mid-1980s, Bain
invested $600,000 in  Staples Inc. (SPLS) , a move that eventually
returned many millions.  Staples was a great move, though not exactly a daring one.
Many firms competed for the right to invest. As venture capital
investments go, retail is a safe play; the potential returns are
nowhere near as high as they can be in sectors like biotech or
computers, but neither are the risks.  The story of the Staples deal allows Romney to put a
nonthreatening gloss on Bain Capital, since it’s an easy-to-
grasp parable of investing in a company that grew and thrived.
Yet it left out some of the more unsavory general practices of
private equity, including the massive incursion of debt and the
fees earned from its use, sometimes at the cost of a company’s
long-term health. There is a reason, after all, that the
“leveraged buyout shops,” as they were then called, rebranded
themselves “private equity.”  Biotech Startup  Yet Romney steered Bain away from even this kind of
relatively safe deal and toward buyouts which offered more
control and the chance to apply Bain’s management techniques.  “If you invest in a biotechnology startup,” says Bob White,
a co-founder of Bain Capital and top adviser to Romney’s
presidential campaign, “you only have a successful company if
the person in the white coat comes out of the laboratory and
says, ‘You have a successful product.’ We didn’t know enough
about the science to help control that outcome. We would have
been just betting.”  Romney’s safer path brought enormous success. Bain Capital
grew from $37 million to $14 billion by the time he stepped down
to run the Salt Lake City Olympics in 1999. Romney left with
around $250 million.  Management Expertise  A few years after its founding, when it was clear Bain was
a success, its partners commissioned a study to see what they
had done right. Two things jumped out. First, applying
management expertise really had improved the performance of its
portfolio companies.  Second, Romney was a classic value investor -- large
upside, limited downside. Romney knew a company’s management,
its product, its balance sheet, its earnings trends, its cash
flow -- and he also knew the net value of its assets.  Bain invested only in situations where, if the worst came
to pass and a company failed, its equipment, real estate, and
other possessions could be sold off for almost as much as the
original investment.  Avoiding unnecessary risk is the foundation of wise capital
allocation, and Romney’s belief in it is evident in the
decisions he’s made as a candidate. No one could safely predict
how voters would react to a wealthy candidate’s tax returns,
detailed economic policies, and an open discussion of
Mormonism’s place in America. Safer to make the race about
Obama’s record rather than himself.  Private-Equity Legacy  Today, Romney’s approach of bringing management expertise
to buyouts is standard practice.  “He invented a new form of private equity,” Anderson says.
“The traditional way was to bring a skill set from investment
banking: ‘Can I buy it, flip it, add the debt?’ Mitt approached
it with a completely different skill set, the analyst’s
capability to break apart an industry, figure out what matters,
figure out what to sell and what to buy, and come up with an
execution strategy that makes it work.” Other firms began to
work along similar lines.  That’s had a much broader and more positive effect than
anyone learning about private equity from political ads would
realize. All buyout firms in Romney’s day believed, correctly,
that American companies had lost their edge to foreign
competitors due to poor management.  Although they were driven by profits, their aggregate
effect was to hasten necessary changes in the way companies were
run that helped the overall economy. Many of the layoffs and
plant closings were inevitable because whole industries were no
longer competitive.  ‘New Dynamics’  When I asked Romney in the last race to defend these
practices, he wasn’t defensive or evasive.  “I saw this as a time not to abandon the principles that
had made us the most powerful economy in the world,” he said,
“but instead to adjust to the new dynamics of the marketplace.”  Long after Romney graduated, Harvard Business School came
around to the virtues of strategic consulting and the discipline
private equity could impose on corporate governance.  Michael Jensen, an HBS professor often regarded as the
father of private equity, laid out these virtues in a famous
1993 speech and paper acclaiming what he called a “third
industrial revolution” that would improve U.S. competitiveness.
That’s essentially what happened.  In a recent interview, Jensen said, “The American economy
was losing badly to the Japanese and, as a result of the
restructuring in these activities, the whole thing turned around
in less than a decade.”  Different Candidacy  Romney’s candidacy would look much different today had he
made this story its centerpiece. He could explain the benefit to
the U.S. economy, and a shelf-full of scholarship would back him
up. He could say that the last time the country was mired in
recession, he’d seen what most others could not--and point to
his career and fortune as proof.  He’d still be attacked for the  jobs  lost when factories
shut down. Yet voters are more willing to show forbearance and
grasp difficult truths than politicians give them credit for.
Just look at Romney’s current campaign. Even with his best
efforts to blame the recession on Obama, polls show that voters
still apportion much of the blame to George W. Bush.  Had Romney been forthright about how his skills could apply
to the presidency, he might have convinced more people that he’d
make a better president than the current one.  Health Care  His major achievement as Massachusetts governor -- his
health-care law -- is a good example of how government can adapt
to a world where people can’t count on lifetime employment and
benefits from big corporations.  Romney wasn’t always afraid to make this case. The last
time he ran for president, he explained persuasively how his
Bain experience had yielded historic results when applied to
public policy. Speaking to a medical school audience in  Iowa , he
said that while working in the health-care field as a
consultant, his team had discovered huge inefficiencies in the
way hospitals were being run.  The experience led him, as governor, to assemble his own
team to tackle the problem, and they eventually made a
conceptual breakthrough that was the key to the Massachusetts
law, and later to Obama’s plan: that money being spent on
emergency care could instead be used to buy everyone
preventative care.  Anyone who has spoken with Romney about business or
consulting knows that these are the subjects about which he’s
most impassioned and authentic. He comes alive in a way that
would surprise people who’ve only heard him reciting from his
briefing book. Had he emphasized his professional life in
business, voters would see the real Romney.  Listless Campaign  The great mystery about Romney is how such a talented
executive could run such a listless campaign when so many things
-- from the weak economy to his own biography -- favor him.  People who knew Romney at Bain aren’t nearly as surprised.
Asked why he thought Romney had buried his greatest strength,
one colleague who’s known and admired Romney for decades didn’t
hestitate: Having achieved extraordinary success by approaching
the world through a set of precise, data-driven concepts, Romney
had made the mistake of approaching politics the same way:
maximizing data and minimizing risk.  Two years ago, the data would have told a clear story. No
president had won reelection with unemployment above
7.2 percent. At the time, it was near 10 percent. The economy
was already shaping up to dominate the campaign.  Biggest Risk  This, too, would seem to redound to his benefit. The
biggest risk would have been doing anything to upset this order
of affairs. So Romney ran a hyper-cautious campaign that made
the case against Obama instead of the case for himself.  What he overlooked is that while the financial crisis has
certainly weighed on the president, it has also altered public
sentiment in a way that made Romney uniquely vulnerable.  “In the 1980s white, blue-collar voters totally focused on
race,” says Democratic pollster Stanley Greenberg. “They felt
that what was happening with blacks was centrally related to why
they were losing income and in trouble. Today race has
disappeared, and they’re focused on Wall Street, CEOs, and
economic elites as the forces holding the middle class down.”  Another Democratic pollster, Peter Hart, distilled this
ethos into a word: “predators.”  If Romney didn’t see how damaging this could be, it may be
because he had fallen prey to the same habits as his old
clients, like Chrysler, putting his faith in what had worked so
well for him in the past instead of devising a new strategy for
the future.  That would be ironic, but not as surprising as it seems.
When Romney was running Bain, there was a saying around the
office: The best analysts in the world almost always have a
blind spot -- themselves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Green in Washington at 
 jgreen120@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  