-- Romney Election Win Seen Supporting Steel as Obama Benefits Gold
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-11-01T15:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/romney-election-win-seen-supporting-steel-as-obama-benefits-gold.html
Steelmaking raw materials stand to
benefit if Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  wins next week’s
U.S. election, while a victory for President  Barack Obama  would
aid gold,  Alfa Bank  said.  Romney may cut spending and keep taxes flat if elected,
resulting in faster growth and a stronger dollar, the Moscow-
based lender said in a report dated yesterday. Obama is more
likely to raise taxes and continue monetary easing, weakening
the dollar, the report showed. Bullion and the U.S. currency
tend to move inversely.  “An Obama win favors precious above the other metals
because of probable weak growth and ongoing quantitative
easing,” Barry Ehrlich, an analyst at Alfa, said in the report.
“A Romney win, on the other hand, favors the steel complex
because of likely higher economic growth that is likely to aid
the housing market and other investment activity.”  A  Washington Post/ABC News national tracking poll  released
yesterday showed the opponents tied at 49 percent among likely
voters, based on interviews conducted Oct. 27-30.  The  Federal Reserve  announced a third round of debt-buying
in September as central banks around the world unveiled stimulus
measures aimed at boosting economic growth. Gold rose 70 percent
as the Fed bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of
purchases from December 2008 through June 2011.  Slowing growth in the U.S. if Obama is re-elected might
force China to introduce stimulus measures next summer, Ehrlich
said. The Asian nation is the world’s biggest steelmaker and
consumer of  iron ore , a raw material for producing the alloy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  