-- Rosengren Calls for QE3 Until Unemployment Falls to 7.25%
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-11-01T22:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/rosengren-calls-for-qe3-until-unemployment-falls-to-7-25-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the Fed should buy mortgage bonds
until the jobless rate falls to 7.25 percent and hold the target
interest rate near zero until hitting 6.5 percent unemployment.  “As long as inflation and inflation expectations are
expected to remain well-behaved in the medium term, we should
continue to forcefully pursue asset purchases,” Rosengren said
today in a speech in Wellesley, Massachusetts.  The Boston Fed chief’s proposal would set “a threshold,
not a trigger,” he said at Babson College. Once achieved, “the
assessment of continued asset purchases would commence.”  Rosengren joined fellow Fed regional bank presidents
Charles Evans of  Chicago  and Narayana Kocherlakota of
 Minneapolis  in proposing numerical thresholds the Fed should
reach before beginning to reverse record accommodation. Many Fed
officials advocate similar policy objectives focused on
inflation and the labor market, according to minutes of a Sept.
12-13 policy meeting. They haven’t agreed on such thresholds.  Kocherlakota has said  interest rates  should stay low until
unemployment falls below 5.5 percent, so long as the outlook for
inflation does not breach 2.25 percent. Evans has said the
central bank should promise to keep rates low until the
unemployment rate falls to 7 percent, so long as inflation
doesn’t exceed 3 percent.  Cut Unemployment  The Federal Open Market Committee on Oct. 24 said it will
continue buying $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities each
month, aiming to reduce 7.8 percent unemployment. The central
bank is also purchasing $45 billion of longer-term Treasuries,
in a securities-swap program called Operation Twist scheduled to
end in December.  Rosengren’s proposal contains two unemployment thresholds.
While asset purchases would be reassessed and possibly ended at
7.25 percent unemployment, the Fed would keep its target
interest rate near zero for longer.  “If inflationary pressures remain muted, then labor market
conditions would need to be more like 6.5 percent unemployment
to warrant the federal funds rate being lifted off the zero
bound,” he said. The central bank has held the main interest
rate near zero since December 2008.  Fed presidents rotate as voters on the central bank’s
policy setting FOMC, with Rosengren voting next year.  Not all policy makers agree the central bank should adopt a
numerical target for the jobless rate. Atlanta Fed President
Dennis Lockhart said earlier today that the Fed shouldn’t tie
policy to a single data point like the unemployment rate and
instead should track broader measures of the job market.  ‘Be Cautious’  “It’s appropriate to be cautious about relying on a single
indicator of labor market trends, for example the unemployment
rate, to determine whether the condition of substantial
improvement has been met,” Lockhart said today in a speech in
Chattanooga,  Tennessee . An assessment of employment and the
economy needs to be “reinforced by other indicators.”  Rosengren said once unemployment reaches 7.25 percent
policy makers should assess “whether overall labor market
conditions are consistent with ‘substantial Improvement’ -- for
example, whether the lower unemployment rate reflects job
creation rather than reductions in the labor force as
discouraged workers stop seeking jobs.”  Fed officials will have more information on the state of
unemployment tomorrow, when the Labor Department releases its
monthly jobs report at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington . Employment
probably climbed by 125,000 in October following a 114,000
increase the month before, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. The  jobless rate  may climb to 7.9 percent from
7.8 percent, another survey showed.  Buffer Damage  Rosengren responded to audience questions about whether the
Fed could buffer damage to the economy from  Europe ’s debt crisis
and the risk Congress will abruptly raise taxes and cut
spending, saying the Fed could “mitigate some of that risk but
I don’t think we would be able to completely offset it.”  Asked if the U.S. would enter a new recession, Rosengren
said, “I don’t expect that to happen.” If the economy avoids
unexpected shocks, his “best guess would be the economy
actually starts improving over the course of next year.”  Reports on the U.S. economy today showed private employers
increased payrolls in October by the most in eight months and
 construction spending  climbed in September to the highest level
in almost three years. Also, manufacturing expanded more than
forecast, and a measure of  consumer confidence  climbed to a
four-year high.  The Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Research Institute said
companies expanded payrolls by 158,000 last month following a
revised 114,000 gain in September.  Stocks Rise  U.S. stocks rose, sending benchmark indexes toward the
biggest advance in seven weeks, in response to reports of an
improving economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.1
percent to 1,427.55 in New York. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury climbed 0.03 percentage point to 1.72 percent.  Rosengren, 55, has been among the most outspoken advocates
of additional monetary stimulus this year, calling for an open-
ended quantitative easing program and arguing that the central
bank should extend its Operation Twist program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Wellesley,  Massachusetts  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  