-- Rosetta, Google, Apple, VirnetX: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-11-01T12:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/rosetta-google-apple-virnetx-intellectual-property.html
Rosetta Stone Inc. (RST) , a maker of
language-learning software, agreed to drop a lawsuit it brought
against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for selling its trademarks to other
companies for search-engine advertising.  The companies agreed that all claims in the infringement
case will be dismissed, according to a filing yesterday in
federal court in Alexandria, Virginia. No terms were given with
the stipulation of voluntary dismissal. Rosetta Stone had
claimed the keywords were being sold to competitors and
counterfeiters.  U.S. District Judge Gerald Bruce Lee ruled in 2010 that the
sale of Rosetta’s trademarked phrases as keywords wouldn’t
confuse consumers. The  U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth
Circuit  in April overturned part of that ruling and sent the
case back to the lower court.  “Google and  Rosetta Stone  have agreed to dismiss the
three-year-old trademark infringement lawsuit between them and
to meaningfully collaborate to combat online ads for counterfeit
goods and prevent the misuse and abuse of trademarks on the
Internet,” the companies said in a joint e-mailed statement.  Google, which runs the world’s largest search engine, sells
advertisers the rights to use certain words or phrases as
keywords for paid ads on  its site.  The so-called sponsored links
direct users to the advertisers’ websites.  Advertisers bid what they’ll pay Google for each click on
an ad triggered by the keyword. The highest bid and other
factors determine whether the keywords can be used.  Mountain
View , California-based Google derives most of its revenue from
ad sales.  The case is Rosetta Stone v. Google, 09-00736, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria). The
appeal is Rosetta Stone v. Google, 10-2007,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond, Virginia).  For more trademark news, click here.  Patent  Apple Should Pay $708 Million Over Patents, VirnetX Tells Jurors  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  should pay $708 million for using another
company’s virtual-private-network technology in its FaceTime
video-calling function, a lawyer for patent owner  VirnetX
Holding Corp. (VHC)  told a federal jury in Tyler, Texas, yesterday.  “In 2009, Apple introduced a new way to use VPN-on-demand
and they used VirnetX patents to make it work,” VirnetX lawyer
Doug Cawley of McKool Smith in Dallas said in opening arguments.  VirnetX, which got a $200 million settlement from  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  in 2010, claims Apple infringes four patents. They cover
the use of a domain-name service to set up virtual private
networks, through which a website owner can interact with
customers in a secure way or an employee can work at home and
get access to a company’s electronic files.  The company contends it’s owed compensation based on sales
of Apple’s iPhone, iPod Touch, and iPad, and Mac computers that
use the FaceTime function. Apple, based in Cupertino,
California, denies infringing the patents and contends they are
invalid.  “We have been wrongly accused of infringement,” Eric
Albritton of the Albritton Law Firm in Longview, Texas, told the
jury. “We do not use VirnetX technology. We owe zero.”  The case has received so much attention that U.S. District
Judge Leonard Davis, who’s presiding over the trial, ordered the
parties Oct. 19 to tell their investors to stop calling the
court. He said in a court filing that his office is receiving
more than 10 calls a day.  The case at trial is VirnetX Inc. v.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,
10-cv-417, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Tyler).  For more, click here.  Apple Leaves U.K. Judge at a ‘Loss’ Over Samsung Website Posts  Apple Inc. was criticized by U.K. judges in a patent
lawsuit with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  for posting a notice on its
website that was “untrue” and “incorrect.”  The U.K. Court of Appeal in London ordered Apple to remove
the statement within 24 hours and place a new notice
acknowledging the inaccurate comments. The Cupertino,
California-based company was told by the same court last month
to post the initial notice as part of a ruling that Samsung’s
Galaxy tablets didn’t copy the design of Apple’s iPad.  “I’m at a loss that a company such as Apple would do
this,” Judge Robin Jacob said today. “That is a plain breach
of the order.”  The ruling is the latest in a lawsuit that dates back to a
July judgment in which a London judge said the design for three
Galaxy tablets didn’t infringe Apple’s registered design, saying
they were not “cool” enough.  Michael Beloff, a lawyer for Apple, told the court today
that the comments posted by Apple were in line with original
order.  The notice “is not designed to punish, it is not designed
to makes us grovel,” Michael Beloff, a lawyer for Apple, said
in court today. “The only purpose is to dispel commercial
uncertainty.”  Apple’s request for 14 days to make the changes was
rejected.  For more patent news, click here.  Internet  Google Data Use Should Be in Antitrust Talks, Group Tells EU  Google Inc.’s power to wield customer data should be taken
into account by European Union regulators as settlement talks on
an antitrust probe reach the final stages, a consumer rights
group said.  The dominance of Google is “largely fueled by its access
to users’ personal data,” Monique Goyens, director general of
the European consumers’ association BEUC, said in a letter to
 Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust chief.  “The privacy policy of Google is directly linked to its
dominance in the online search and should therefore be
considered as an aggravating factor in your analysis,” Goyens
said in the letter dated Oct. 31.  While the EU negotiates with Google to resolve an antitrust
dispute over allegations that the owner of the world’s largest
search engine discriminates against rivals, the company has
clashed with data-protection watchdogs. The EU has urged Google
to fix flaws in its updated privacy policy or face possible
fines. Authorities worldwide have also fretted over privacy
lapses with Google’s Street View mapping service.  Almunia has said the company has a limited time to settle
the antitrust probe into whether it thwarts competition in the
market for Web searches.  “As discussions on a possible settlement with Google are
at an advanced stage, we would like to convey our concerns as
regards the remedies under consideration,” Goyens wrote to the
Brussels-based commission.  “Infringements of competition rules call for strong and
rigorous remedies which go beyond the field of consumer
information,” she said.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, said the
company continues “to work cooperatively with the commission.”  United, Delta Said to Be Warned on California Mobile App Privacy  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
 OpenTable Inc. (OPEN)  are among companies in violation of a California
protocol governing mobile applications for failing to
conspicuously post their privacy policies, a person familiar
with the matter said.  Companies using as many as 100 mobile apps were told in
letters sent Oct. 29 by California Attorney General  Kamala
Harris  that they have 30 days to make their privacy policies
readily accessible to consumers of their online services, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the matter
isn’t public. In a statement Oct. 30, Harris didn’t include the
names of the companies her office has contacted.  “Protecting the privacy of online consumers is a serious
law enforcement matter,” Harris said in an e-mailed statement.
“We have worked hard to ensure that app developers are aware of
their legal obligations to respect the privacy of Californians,
but it is critical that we take all necessary steps to enforce
California’s privacy laws.”  Harris said in February when she announced a privacy
protocol that she’s trying to bring the industry in line with a
California law requiring mobile apps that collect personal
information to have a privacy policy. Her actions indicate
concerns over Internet privacy are extending to applications,
the downloadable programs that companies in growing numbers are
using to communicate with customers and market their wares to
users of mobile devices.  United is “taking all steps necessary and appropriate to
ensure compliance with California law as it relates to our
mobile app,” United spokeswoman  Mary Clark  said in an e-mail.  Chris Kelly , a spokeswoman for Atlanta-based Delta, said in
an e-mail that the company will provide the information Harris
requested.  California is the only state to require privacy policies
for mobile applications as well as websites, Chris Conley, a
technology lawyer at the  American Civil Liberties Union  in San
Francisco, said in a phone interview. Consumers are becoming
more aware of which apps collect personal information, he said.  For more, click here.  Online-Gambling Startup Betable Recruits Three Zynga Competitors  Betable Ltd. , the  venture capital  backed online-gambling
startup, reached agreements with three social-gaming companies
that will use its platform to expand into real-money betting in
competition with  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)   Slingo Inc., a maker of virtual-wagering slots and bingo
titles with 54 million monthly users worldwide, will use
Betable’s U.K. gambling license and technology, according to a
statement yesterday from London-based Betable. Digital Chocolate
Inc., started by  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  founder Trip Hawkins, and
Murka Ltd., the maker of “Slots Journey,” also signed on.  Game makers are racing to establish themselves in the
developing market for online gambling in the U.K. and other
countries where it is legal. Zynga, seeking to reignite growth,
formed an online-betting partnership last week with  Bwin.Party
Digital Entertainment Plc. (BPTY)  Betable says it can streamline the
licensing and offer developers a technology framework they can
plug in to and quickly get started.  “This is not going to lead to an incremental shift in the
market,” Betable Chief Executive Officer Chris Griffin said in
an interview. “This is really a tectonic change.”  Online gambling isn’t legal in the U.S. Until recently,
when some countries began allowing real-money Internet wagering,
online gamers could put money in to purchase virtual currency
and gamble, but couldn’t cash out their winnings.  Mobile gambling will grow to $100 billion worldwide by
2017, driven by a surge in social gambling and legalization in
key U.S. states, Juniper Research estimated in May.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  