-- Rubber Advances After China’s Manufacturing Expands, Yen Weakens
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-11-01T08:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/rubber-advances-after-china-s-manufacturing-expands-yen-weakens.html
Rubber climbed, heading for a second
weekly advance, after data showed  China ’s manufacturing expanded
for the first time in three months in October, boosting the
outlook for demand in the world’s biggest consumer.  Rubber for April delivery gained 1.5 percent to end at 259
yen a kilogram ($3,237 a metric ton) on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange. The most-active contract has gained 0.5 percent this
week after rising 0.9 percent the week before.  A Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 50.2 in October from
49.8 in September, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said today. That matched
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 30 economists. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion. A final reading of a
separate purchasing managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics was 49.5 last month from 47.9 in September.  “The data eased concerns about China’s economic slowdown,
leading to buybacks of futures,” Takaki Shigemoto, an analyst
at research company JSC Corp. in  Tokyo , said by phone.  The reports may bolster speculation China’s economy will
pick up this quarter after industrial production, exports and
retail sales accelerated in September. The data may also reduce
pressure on outgoing Premier Wen Jiabao to roll out more
stimulus measures during a once-a-decade power handover that
begins with a Communist Party congress next week.  Futures also gained as the Japanese currency weakened
against the dollar, raising the appeal of yen-based contracts,
Shigemoto said.  Japan ’s central bank may ease monetary policy
further to support the economy after expanding its asset-
purchase program by 11 trillion yen this week, he said.  Persistent rains in southern Thailand have disrupted
tapping, raising concerns that supply may drop, said Sureerat
Kunthongjun, an analyst at AGROW Enterprise Ltd.  Rubber for January delivery gained 0.2 percent to 24,830
 yuan  ($3,980) a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange. Thai
rubber free-on-board rose 0.5 percent to 93.45 baht ($3.04) a
kilogram today, Rubber Research Institute of Thailand data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  