-- Running the Data on a Romney Presidency
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-11-01T22:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/running-the-data-on-a-romney-presidency.html
In 2007, when  Mitt Romney  sat down
with the Wall Street Journal editorial board, the candidate for
the Republican presidential nomination was eager for the
influential paper’s blessing. What he got, instead, was their
bemusement.  The paper’s  account  of the interview begins with a three-
word quote from Romney: “I love data.” The Journal editors go
on to slyly note, “Mitt Romney has been speaking for less than
two minutes when he makes this profession.” They then quote him
again. “I used to call it ’wallowing in the data.’ Let me see
the data. I want to see the client’s data, the competitors’
data. I want to see all the data.”  The Journal’s conservative editorial board didn’t want to
see the data. They wanted to see the ideology. They wanted to
know whether Romney was one of them. But he seemed uncomfortable
with that line of questioning. “When asked whether his ‘nuts-
and-bolts’ approach can possibly succeed in an ideological,
divided age, he returns to the nuts and bolts.” Pressed by the
board, Romney begins to stammer. “Obviously, I have -- just
like in the consulting world -- I have ’concepts’ that I
believe.” You can almost see the flop sweat.  But as past Romney staffers have found, ideological
commitment isn’t Romney’s thing. In “ The Real Romney ,” Michael
Kranish and Scott Helman, two Boston Globe reporters who covered
Romney’s tenure as governor of  Massachusetts , recount how he
prepared to run for the  U.S. Senate  in 1994. “Michael Sununu,
the campaign’s research and policy guru, would sit down with
Romney and talk through key issues like welfare reform. Romney,
true to his Bain training, wanted to drill down into the
details: Who supports this? Are there other alternatives? What
does the national Republican leadership say about it? Less
natural to him was the question ‘What do I think?”’  Wrong Data  This has made Romney’s politics something of a puzzle.
 Washington  has its empiricists and its data-hounds, but most who
enter public service do so because they want to apply that data
to a grand purpose. They like their data, but they’re in
politics because they care about ideology, or a party, or at
least a particular issue. “Concept” doesn’t begin to describe
it.  Romney’s apparent disinterest in an animating ideology has
made him hard to pin down -- for the Journal editorial board,
for journalists, for Democrats and Republicans, for campaign
consultants, even for Romney’s closest confidantes. It has led
to the common knock on Romney that he lacks a core. He’s an
opportunist. He picks whatever position is expedient. He is a
guy with brains, but no guts.  But after spending the last year talking to Romney advisers
and former colleagues, as well as listening to him on the
campaign trail, I’ve come to see this description as
insufficient. It’s not so much that Romney lacks a core as that
his core can’t readily be mapped by traditional political
instruments. As a result, he is free to be opportunistic about
the kinds of commitments that people with strong political cores
tend to value most.  What Romney values most is something most of us don’t think
much about: management. A lifetime of data has proven to him
that he’s extraordinarily, even uniquely, good at managing and
leading organizations, projects and people. It’s those skills,
rather than specific policy ideas, that he sees as his unique
contribution. That has been the case everywhere else he has
worked, and he assumes it will be the case in the White House,
too. When we look at Romney’s career and see a coreless
opportunist, we’re just looking at the wrong data.  Inevitable Conclusion  The normal data set to use in evaluating a candidate like
Romney is the one furnished by his political past: His campaigns
for Senate and governor of Massachusetts, his gubernatorial
record and his 2008 campaign for president. But if you limit
yourself to that, you almost inevitably conclude that he has no
fixed views and tells voters whatever he thinks will make them
vote for him.  Romney ran for Senate in 1994 as a moderate Republican who,
far from being a foot soldier in the Reagan Revolution, stressed
that he had been an “independent.” He refused to sign  Newt Gingrich ’s Contract With America; said he could do more to
advance gay rights than his Democratic opponent  Ted Kennedy ;
promised to be unwavering in support of Roe v. Wade; and told
reporters he would support a national health-care plan with an
individual mandate.  Romney lost that campaign. But eight years later, he ran
for governor of Massachusetts and won. He called himself a
“progressive Republican,” supported Roe v. Wade, gay rights
and gun control, and signed the nation’s first health-care law
with an individual mandate -- the widely acknowledged
inspiration for President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act.  Toward the end of Romney’s first term as governor, he began
testing the waters for a presidential run. Romney’s team
gathered the data on the campaign, the voters and the
competition. Former  New York  Mayor  Rudy Giuliani  and Senator
 John McCain  of  Arizona  led in the primary polls, but both were
viewed with suspicion by social conservatives. That left a path
to the nomination if Romney could credibly court social
conservatives.  Romney burst into national politics as a fierce opponent of
Roe v. Wade and gay marriage. His debut was pretty much a
disaster. If Romney’s strategy was going to work, it would have
to succeed in  South Carolina , which has the most socially
conservative electorate of the early primary calendar. But his
South Carolina team quickly realized that the focus on social
conservatism was killing the campaign. “Every time Governor
Romney talks about social issues, the flip-flopper accusations
have been and will continue to be mentioned,” wrote South
Carolina operatives in an extraordinary memo to Beth Myers,
Romney’s campaign manager. The memo, quoted by Kranish and
Helman in their book, went on to beg the campaign to refocus on
economic issues. Romney, they said, had to “be acceptable to
the pro-life crowd” to win, but he didn’t need to be its
“champion.”  Conservative Advice  In 2012, Romney followed his South Carolina team’s advice,
reiterating his commitment to cultural conservatism but
otherwise shunning it. Asked last month by the Des Moines
Register what legislation he might support regarding  abortion ,
he said, “There’s no legislation with regards to abortion that
I’m familiar with that would become part of my agenda.”
Instead, he has focused his campaign on promises to fix the
economy, repeal the Affordable Care Act and work with, rather
than against, U.S. business.  “Everything could always be tweaked, reshaped, fixed,
addressed,” one former aide complained to Kranish and Helman.
“It was foreign to him on policy issues that core principles
mattered -- that somebody would go back and say, ‘Well, three
years ago you said this.”’  “The executives of the postwar era were corporate
lifers,” writes Chrystia Freeland in “Plutocrats: The Rise of
the New Global Elite and the Fall of Everyone Else.” “They
were the creations and servants of their companies, and a great
deal of value came from their knowledge of the particular
corporate cultures that had created them and the specific
business they did.” Freeland contrasted that old guard with the
new. “The superstar CEO cannot be tied to a single corporation
and, ideally, not even to a single industry,” she wrote. “He
must be an exemplary talent whose skill is in ‘management’ or in
‘leadership.”’  The glorification and subsequent commodification of
“management” and “leadership” skills isn’t confined to the
world of superstar CEOs. You can see it in the  business  section
of any Barnes & Noble. Rows upon rows of books promise to help
you “get to yes” or turn into a “one-minute manager” or
develop “strengths-based leadership.” None of these books
particularly cares what it is you’re managing, or where it is
you’re leading, or why exactly you’re trying to get to yes.
These are skills like running or weightlifting. You can excel at
them no matter where you’re going or what you carry.  If business publishing is where this trend became word,
management consulting is where it was made flesh. The new gospel
insisted that failing businesses didn’t need industry insiders
to prosper. They needed whiz-kid outsiders steeped in the latest
management theories and versed in the most sophisticated
analytical techniques. Bain Consulting, where Romney got his
start, was a pioneer in the field.  Fall Guy  But even successful management consultants were dogged by a
suspicion that what they were really offering their CEO clients
was a convenient fall guy. How much easier for CEOs to blame
painful firings and restructurings on the cold analysis of the
dispassionate consultants.  Enter  private equity . Management consultants were making
money by giving advice to companies. In private equity, they’d
actually be running the companies. Office supply retailer?
Doughnut chain? Hospital network? It didn’t matter. The idea
that these brilliant, data-driven business strategists can buy a
company in almost any industry and wrest more value out of it
than the old, stodgy, stuck-in-the-mud managers they displaced
would be put to the test. If they made money, it would prove
them right. If they lost money, it would prove them wrong.  They made money. Romney was extraordinarily good at private
equity, as his net worth confirms. He proved his skills at
“management” and “leadership” worked in industry after
industry, company after company. And his success didn’t end
there.  He was elevated to the position of bishop by the Mormon
church. He turned the Salt Lake City Olympics around. He was a
generally successful governor of Massachusetts who signed into
law the country’s first universal health-care bill with broad
bipartisan support. More recently, of course, he used his
leadership and management skills to win the Republican
nomination for president. Experience has shown Romney that his
skills are applicable across a wide range of endeavors and a
vast assortment of constituencies. Success in the number of
fields that superstar CEOs enter, Freeland says, tends to
encourage “a sense of mastery, and that sense of mastery gives
them a belief they can do anything.” And Romney has been more
successful in more fields than almost any CEO in history.  This is why Mitt Romney thinks he should be president. A
lifetime of data has proved to him that his management skills
constitute a unique and powerful contribution. In Romney’s
world, there’s nothing strange about that, which may also
explain his willingness to be unusually strategic, even cynical,
about the policies he supports.  Don’t Try  “In business you don’t get to say I tried but I just
couldn’t get it done,” said Ed Conard, a former managing
director at Bain who worked closely with Romney. “Trying
doesn’t count. You have to get something done. All that matters
is getting the best possible thing done. You’d always hear Mitt
say, ‘What is the cost of compromise? What would it cost us to
give them that?”’  Romney’s record as a successful manager and pragmatic
governor terrified the Obama campaign. Early on, Obama
strategists decided not to tar Romney as a flip-flopper for fear
voters would interpret the charge as “closet moderate” -- and
like Romney all the better for it. Instead, they noted the
extreme positions Romney adopted to win the Republican primary
and campaigned against this “severe” conservatism. In his
debates with Obama this fall, Romney countered by selling
himself as a committed moderate.  The truth is that Romney isn’t a hard-core conservative --
but he’s willing to act as one. Nor is he a genuine moderate --
unless that’s what the situation calls for.  Romney is a manager. The question is: What will he be
managing? The answer, in most cases, is Congress. Presidential
campaigns fool us into believing the central question of U.S.
politics is, “What does the president want?” But the political
system is constructed around the central question of, “What
will Congress pass?”  Some argue that the president holds the ultimate power to
“agenda set,” even if much of that power is derived from
Congress’s willingness to let him set its agenda. There’s truth
to that, but it obscures the very substantive negotiations
between White House and Congress. When Obama chose to push
health-care reform in 2009, for instance, he did so in large
part because key members of Congress also wanted to push it. If
they had wanted to push cap-and-trade legislation instead,
that’s probably the agenda the president would have set.
Presidents trying to govern set an agenda Congress is willing to
pass.  Unusually Weak  The answer, then, to the question “What does Mitt Romney
think?” is this: It matters even less what Romney thinks than
it matters for most presidents. Romney’s policy preferences are
unusually weak, his deal-making instincts are unusually strong
and his party will be unusually aggressive in policing his
agenda.  George W. Bush  used his personal prestige to convince
Republicans to vote for Medicare Part D, a debt-financed
expansion of the welfare state that conservatives would
typically have found noxious. Obama convinced his party to
support the individual mandate, a Republican idea that he had
vigorously opposed in the Democratic primary.  Romney does not have significant prestige within the
 Republican Party , which largely views him with mistrust. Perhaps
more significant, his party has spent the past few years
developing its governing agenda without him. “We don’t need a
president to tell us in what direction to go,” said  Grover Norquist , president of Americans for  Tax Reform , at the 2012
Conservative Political Action Conference. “We just need a
president to sign this stuff.”  In choosing Representative  Paul Ryan , the lead architect of
the Republican House’s legislative agenda, as his running mate,
Romney signaled his broad acceptance of Norquist’s argument.
Whether a Romney administration would corral the votes to pass
Ryan’s agenda remains an open question. Democrats seem much more
likely to hold the Senate than they did six months ago.  At this point, neither voters nor Romney have sufficient
data to know how he would govern. With a  Republican Congress , he
would govern from the right. With a Democratic Congress, he
would move to the center. If he faces a divided Congress, he
will look for compromise to get “the best possible thing
done.” Without knowing the composition of Congress, we can’t
know the kind of president Romney would be. We know he can
manage, but we don’t know which company he will be managing.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: In a signed editorial,  Michael R. Bloomberg
endorses President Barack Obama  for re-election.  Also, the editors on the  Greek debt buyback ;  Stephen Carter  on
the  election night concession speech ; Jonathan Mahler on Dan
Okrent, the  founder of Rotisserie baseball ; A. Gary Shilling on
 five possible global shocks ;  Amity Shlaes  on how  disasters make
government bigger ; Carl Pope on the Republican defense of an
 obsolete economy .  To contact the writer of this article: Ezra Klein at
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Francis
Wilkinson at  fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 