-- Rupee Drops Most in Emerging Asia on Growth View: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-11-01T05:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/rupee-drops-most-in-emerging-asia-on-growth-view-india-credit.html
India ’s rupee is falling the most
among emerging Asian economies as investors question the
government’s ability to implement policies to boost growth,
which the central bank predicts will be the least in a decade.  The currency fell 1.8 percent to 53.8150 per dollar last
month after rising 5.1 percent in September, when it was the
region’s best performer, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
October’s decline compares with a 0.2 percent drop in
 Indonesia ’s rupiah and a 1.9 percent gain in the South Korean
won. JPMorgan Chase & Co. predicts the rupee will end 2012 at
54, while Credit Agricole CIB forecasts a weakening to 54.50.  The  Reserve Bank  of India on Oct. 30 resisted Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram’s call for lower  interest
rates , citing the need to contain  inflation  even as Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao lowered the central bank’s growth forecast for
the year through March 31. The rupee pared gains made after
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in the last two months cut
subsidies and opened more industries to foreign investors. The
biggest policy overhaul in a decade cost Singh the support of
his main ally, leaving the government in a minority.  “The stability of the government itself is at stake
today,” Aneesh Srivastava, who oversees $470 million of assets
as chief investment officer at IDBI Federal Life Insurance Co.
in Mumbai, said in an Oct. 30 interview. “Enough time has gone
by since the unveiling of the reforms, so people now have to
walk the talk. The RBI will need to see real action before they
react, instead of anticipation or promises.”  Growth Prescription  Chidambaram and Singh’s prescription for reviving  growth 
will face its first test when parliament reconvenes. Opposition
parties are threatening a no-confidence vote when lawmakers meet
for the winter session scheduled to begin on Nov. 22.  Singh’s Congress party is relying on outside support from
smaller regional groups after West Bengal state Chief Minister
 Mamata Banerjee ’s Trinamool Congress pulled out on Sept. 21
after Singh raised fuel prices and allowed foreign investment in
retail and airlines to curb the  budget deficit  and jumpstart
economic growth.  Subbarao cut the RBI’s growth forecast for the fiscal year
to 5.8 percent from 6.5 percent, raised its estimate for gains
in wholesale prices to 7.5 percent from 7 percent and said
consumer prices will stay elevated mainly due to food costs. He
lowered  reserve requirements  for banks to a 36-year-low of 4.25
percent and kept the benchmark repurchase rate at 8 percent.  ‘Baseline Scenario’  “The baseline scenario suggests a reasonable likelihood of
further policy easing in the fourth quarter of 2012-13,”
Subbarao said in the Oct. 30 monetary policy statement. “The
above policy guidance will, however, be conditioned by the
evolving growth-inflation dynamic.”  A rate cut is unlikely before next quarter unless growth
slides below 5 percent, said Srivastava of IDBI Federal. He
gauges the rupee’s fair value at between 53 and 54 per dollar.
The currency rose 0.1 percent to 53.7450 per dollar today.  Wholesale prices, which rose 7.81 percent in September, the
highest level this year, could climb further this quarter before
easing in 2013. Wheat prices in India, the world’s second-
biggest producer and consumer of the commodity, surged 29
percent this year on the National Commodity & Derivatives
Exchange Ltd. as the FAO’s World Food Price Index climbed 7.7
percent last quarter.  Soaring global prices of farm products will keep RBI from
reducing interest rates this year, according to Sean Yokota, the
Singapore-based head of Asia strategy at  Skandinaviska Enskilda
Banken AB (SEBA) ,  Sweden ’s third-biggest lender by assets.  Food Inflation  “Food inflation can always spread, so I am waiting for
some relief,” Yokota, who predicts the rupee will end 2012 at
53.50 per dollar, said in an Oct. 30 interview. “That will
allow the RBI to cut in earnest and will be positive for rupee-
denominated debt and the currency.”  The RBI will only lower interest rates gradually, which
will keep the yield on Indian  government bonds  higher than those
of developed nations, according to  Standard Chartered  Plc.  The  yield  on 10-year benchmark sovereign notes was little
changed today after rising 6 basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, last month to 8.22 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The notes offer an  extra  651 basis points over
similar-maturity Treasuries, versus a 185 basis-point  premium  on
Chinese bonds.  Rupee-denominated debt returned 8.1 percent this year, the
second-best performance after Indonesia’s 8.9 percent, according
to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. Dollar-based investors
could earn 15.2 percent, including interest, on rupee purchases
by the end of 2013, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Positive Carry’  “The Indian government might have hoped for a more
decisive step but inflation is elevated, and likely to head
higher in coming months, while steps to curb the budget deficit
are likely to only have a very modest impact,”  Robert Minikin ,
Hong Kong-based strategist at Standard Chartered, said in an
Oct. 30 research note. “Given the positive carry, real-money
funds should boost rupee exposure” as the potential of higher
returns offsets weak growth, he wrote.  Holdings of Indian debt by global funds rose $1.4 billion
in October to a record $32.5 billion on Oct. 30, according to
data from the capital markets regulator. Overseas investors
added $1.9 billion to holdings of local shares last month, after
a $2.3 billion increase in September, the data show.  Credit risk for government-controlled  State Bank of India (SBIN) ,
considered a proxy for the sovereign by some investors, touched
a 14-month low of 248 basis points on Oct. 31. The cost of
insuring the Mumbai-based lender’s debt for five years against
non-payment using credit-default swaps fell 24 basis points last
month, according to data provider CMA.  ‘Consolidation Proof’  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should the borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “A combination of pushing rate easing further away, and
expectations of higher inflation and slower growth, will weigh
on sentiment,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist at  Credit
Agricole  in  Hong Kong , said in an Oct. 30 telephone interview.
“The forecasts also make it more difficult for the RBI to trust
the government’s fiscal target, and indeed the central bank
suggested it will wait for proof of consolidation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  