-- Russian Court Orders Khodorkovsky Partner’s Release in July 2013
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-11-01T14:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/russian-court-orders-khodorkovsky-partner-s-release-in-july-2013.html
 A Russian court ordered the release
next July of Platon Lebedev, a partner of former Yukos Oil Co.
owner Mikhail Khodorkovsky.  A district court judge in the Arkhangelsk region city of
Velsk, where Lebedev is imprisoned, shortened his 13-year jail
term to 10 years, Khodorkovsky’s defense team said on its
 website  today. The ruling won’t be appealed, according to
Lebedev’s lawyer, Vladimir Krasnov. The same court cut his
sentence by three years and four months on Aug. 8, a decision
that was overturned by a regional court in September.  Lebedev, 55, and his associate Khodorkovsky, once  Russia ’s
richest man and chief executive officer of Yukos, were sentenced
to eight-year terms for fraud and tax evasion in 2005 and
convicted again on related charges in December 2010. Their
sentences were extended to 13 years from their arrest in 2003.  “We see gaps in the court’s ruling but are not going to
appeal against it as we don’t want to give rise to any
bureaucratic delays again,” Krasnov said by phone from Velsk.
The ruling will come into force in 10 days if it isn’t appealed,
Krasnov said.  The court’s decision is a result of changes in the criminal
code, introduced by then-President Dmitry Medvedev, that eased
penalties for economic crimes, according to Krasnov.  “His liberal law came into force and it would a bit too
much for the courts not to implement it,” Krasnov said.  Lebedev was convicted under some articles of the criminal
code that weren’t softened by the legislative changes, judge
Nikolai Raspopov was cited as saying by Interfax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  