-- Sands China Quarterly Net Rises 17% on Middle-Class Gamblers
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-11-02T08:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/sands-china-third-quarter-net-gains-17-on-middle-class-gamblers.html
Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the Macau casino
operator controlled by billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , posted a 17
percent climb in third-quarter profit as spending by middle-
class Chinese gamblers boosted earnings. The stock surged.  Net income for the  China  unit of  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  rose
to $326.7 million from $278.3 million a year ago, according to a
statement from the parent company yesterday. Net revenue jumped
37 percent to $1.64 billion as the Macau operator benefited from
its newest resort Sands Cotai Central that opened in April.  “Earnings  growth  came from the ramp-up of Sands Cotai
Central and Venetian winning back mass market share,” Karen Tang, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Deutsche Bank, wrote in a
research note to clients. Sands China’s market share will
probably expand to 23 percent by 2014, from 19 percent in the
third quarter this year, she said.  Sands China has joined rivals such as  Galaxy Entertainment
Group Ltd. (27)  in expanding on Macau’s increasingly popular Cotai
strip to reach more middle-class Chinese tourists in the world’s
largest gambling hub. Macau casino revenue rose 3.2 percent to
reach a record last month, as promotions over the eight-day
Golden Week holiday attracted tourists.  Sands China  rose  6.3 percent to HK$31.90 at the close in
Hong Kong trading, the most since Jan. 26. The stock has surged
45 percent this year, compared with a 20 percent advance for the
benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Adjusted property earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, increased 24 percent
to $485.6 million.  Mass Market  Middle-class Chinese tourists, who make up the bulk of
Macau’s so-called mass market, have helped shore up  growth  even
as high-stake bettors have cut back in a weaker economy.
“Rolling chip volume,” a measure of activity in the casino’s
VIP rooms, dropped 12 percent from the previous year during the
quarter, even as mass-market volume gained 6.2 percent, Sands
said.  One reason rolling-chip volume declined was because of
renovations at the casino’s Paiza Club, which reduced the number
of active tables in the category by an average of 23 during the
quarter, the company said.  Sands China and rivals such as  Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128)  are ramping
up expansion. Sands plans to invest at least $2.5 billion to
build its fifth resort, to be called The Parisian, in Macau.  The Parisian will have a replica of the Eiffel Tower and
family-oriented facilities to attract middle-class gamblers from
China, who provide wider margins.  Wynn Macau, whose parent  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  announced a
special dividend last week, won a land grant from Macau’s
government in May to build its second casino in the former
Portuguese colony.  MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282)  and  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) 
were also given the approval last month to develop casinos in
Cotai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  