-- Sandy Damage Estimate Raised to as Much as $50 Billion
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-11-01T15:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/sandy-damage-estimate-raised-to-as-much-as-50-billion.html
Superstorm Sandy caused as much as
$50 billion in economic damage, with about $10 billion to $20
billion of insured losses, more than double previous estimates,
said Eqecat Inc., a provider of catastrophic risk models.  Major failures of electric and utility systems, which
caused business interruptions, spurred the company to increase
its estimate for insured losses, it said today in a statement.
Subway and tunnel outages also led to “higher expectations of
loss amplifications,” the report said.  Eqecat, which has offices in Hackensack, New Jersey, and
Oakland,  California , had estimated damages of as much as $20
billion, including $5 billion to $10 billion of insured losses,
in an Oct. 30 report.  The company later today will release additional details,
including state-by-state damage calculations, Charlene Goodwin,
an Eqecat vice president, said in an e-mail. Some of the
analysis will be based on news footage of the Jersey Shore,
Eqecat President Bill Keogh said in an interview yesterday.  “You can see in several neighborhoods, the first block has
basically been destroyed by the storm surge,” Keogh said in a
telephone interview from his vacation home in Litchfield,
 Connecticut , where he had taken refuge because power was off in
the company’s Hackensack office. “Storm surge is extremely
violent and water is a very heavy thing. You get 10-, 12-feet of
storm surge, and it changes the shoreline really.”  Reis Inc. (REIS) , a real estate research firm, gave a preliminary
estimate of total damage of $30 billion to $40 billion from
Sandy. In its Oct. 30 estimate, the New York-based company
valued reconstruction efforts at $25 billion to $30 billion.
That would result in a $10 billion to $15 billion economic loss,
Reis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  