-- Scene Last Night: Schwarzman Devil, Midler’s Coco Chanel
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-11-01T13:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/scene-last-night-schwarzman-devil-midler-s-coco-chanel.html
The blond nurse, in white uniform,
had a message pinned to her back: “Obama Wins 2nd Term!”  “I dressed as my host’s worst fear,” said the nurse,
actually Ron Grelsamer, a knee surgeon at Mount Sinai Hospital.
“I thought, what would scare him the most?”  The joke was intended for  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s chief
executive officer and chairman,  Steve Schwarzman , a Romney
supporter and the host of a Nui Nui Hui Table last night at
“Hulaween,” a costume party to benefit the  New York Restoration
Project .  Asked if he’d been scared, Schwarzman said “No comment”
as he dug into a meal of pate and steak frites prepared by Jean- Georges Vongerichten at a table decorated with mini-Eiffel
towers and bloody gourds (the blood was dripped red wax). The
party’s theme this year was “Une Saison en Enfer.”  Besides the nurse from hell, Schwarzman’s company included
a fetching  Marilyn Monroe , a prim French maid, Batman and a
woman in a tinsel wig who said she came from Planet Fabulous.  Schwarzman dressed as a French devil. He’d arrived at the
Waldorf Astoria holding a pitch fork and wearing tails, a red
sequined bow tie, a black top hat and a Gallic sash.  “I’ve always loved Halloween,” Schwarzman said. He could
not recall his favorite costume as a kid growing up in Abington,
Pennsylvania.  Hurricane Talk  The event took place two days after  Hurricane Sandy  struck
the region. Conversation revolved around the destruction she
caused, including loss of life, homes, and power outages.  “I can’t believe you’re here, give yourself a great big
hand, you made it!” Bette Midler, founder of New York
Restoration Project, said to guests from the stage.  Costumed as  Coco Chanel , Midler then did a musical number
set to “Can Can,” thanking donors.  Michael Kors ,  Al Gore ,
 Martha Stewart , Ellen Levine, Ann Ziff and Warren Eisenberg, co-
chairman of  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY)  received mentions.  Many focused on the storm’s impact on the very things that
New York Restoration Project works to create and maintain:
community gardens, green spaces in underserved neighborhoods,
trees all over the city.  “I’m weeping for a lot of trees at the  New York Botanical
Garden ,” one of the event’s honorees, Amy Goldman, said. “We
lost about 92 old-growth trees.”  Goldman dressed as a hot chili pepper, a nod to the book
she’s working on about peppers.  Blondie closed out the evening, with  Debbie Harry , in Heidi
braids and blue showgirl feathers, singing the band’s hits and
one cover.  “Since so many of us don’t have them, I’m going to sing
’Lights,’” Harry said, introducing Ellie Goulding’s pop hit.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Greg Evans  on TV,  Craig Seligman  on books and  Jason Harper  on
cars.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 