-- Schneider Said to Consider Partial Sale of Sensors Unit to Avago
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-11-01T10:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/schneider-said-to-consider-partial-sale-of-sensors-unit-to-avago.html
Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the French
maker energy-control products such as circuit breakers, is
considering selling a sensors unit in parts to make the asset
more attractive, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Schneider has resumed talks with  Avago Technologies Ltd (AVGO) ,
which may buy the business excluding some assets in  France , said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. The sale may fetch about $800 million, and Schneider
would seek to sell the rest of the custom sensors & technologies
division later, one of the people said.  Anthime Caprioli, a spokeswoman for Schneider, declined to
comment, as did a spokesman for Avago in Germany. Exclusive
talks between Schneider and Avago broke down about two months
ago because Avago wasn’t interested in the French plants of CST,
one of the people said at the time.  CST, based in Moorpark,  California , makes sensors that
react to changes in pressure or temperature and are used in
industries including transport, aeronautics, construction,
energy and manufacturing.  In 2010, the last year for which Schneider published
earnings for CST before folding it into its industry unit, the
business had an operating margin before one-time items of 16.4
percent on 433 million euros ($543 million) of sales. Schneider
first considered a sale of the division before the 2008 global
recession, people familiar with the plan said last year.  Created through acquisitions in the last decade, CST
employs about 4,700 people and had $660 million in revenue last
year, according to its website. In 2005, Schneider bought
sensors maker BEI Technologies Inc. for $562 million, a year
after purchasing Solectron Corp.’s Kavlico unit, which makes
measurement and control systems. It bought French sensors maker
Crouzet in 2000.  Avago, based in Singapore, was created in 2005 as a spinoff
from scientific-analysis equipment-maker  Agilent Technologies
Inc. (A) , which itself was spun off in 1999 from Hewlett-Packard.
 KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Silver Lake Partners  bought Avago and took it
public.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  