-- Scotiabank Sees Slower Pace for Foreign Takeovers
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-11-01T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/scotiabank-sees-slower-pace-for-foreign-takeovers.html
Bank of Nova Scotia  expects the pace
of foreign acquisitions to slow after  Canada ’s third-largest
bank spent more than C$3 billion ($3 billion) in the past five
years buying lenders abroad, new president  Brian Porter  said.  “We’re really going to be focused on organic growth to
drive opportunities,” Porter, 54, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “We will continue to look at M&A opportunities on a
selective basis.”  Porter, who has been with the Toronto-based bank since
1981, was appointed president yesterday, possibly paving the way
for him to replace  Richard Waugh  as chief executive officer.  Waugh, who turns 65 on Dec. 23, relinquishes the president
title today and remains CEO, a position he has held for almost
nine years. He said in a television interview in September that
his retirement isn’t “imminent.”  Porter declined to say whether he’s in line for the top
spot.  “I’m very excited to work with Rick and Sabi (Marwah) and
the whole management team and serve our stakeholders,” Porter
said. Marwah is vice chairman and chief operating officer.  Scotiabank, which operates in 55 countries including
Thailand, Chile and  Colombia , receives about a quarter of its
consumer banking  profit  from outside Canada. Last year, the
international banking unit had net income of C$1.49 billion.  The bank will continue to target the “unbanked
population” in countries including Mexico and Peru, as well as
financing for customers with little or no credit history, Porter
said.  “We would look at parts of the Caribbean, the  Dominican
Republic , and really through  Latin America ,” Porter said.  Succession  Before being appointed to lead the international banking
business in 2010, Porter was chief risk officer.  “He’s led the international division, which has had strong
success for Scotia,” said Jeffrey Bradacs, a portfolio manager
with Manulife Asset Management Ltd. in Toronto, who runs about
C$1.5 billion in assets. “Overall the market views it as
positive and a step for the next transition to CEO.”  Under Porter, Scotiabank oversaw acquisitions in Mexico and
Colombia. The bank is still awaiting regulatory approval from
 China  to close its C$719 million purchase of  Bank of Guangzhou ,
announced in September 2011. Porter, who was in China two weeks
ago to talk with regulators, said he doesn’t know when the deal
will close.  The bank’s four main business lines -- Canadian banking,
international banking,  wealth management  and global banking and
markets -- will report directly to Porter.  “Using past succession patterns at Scotia as a guide, Mr.
Porter also appears set to become CEO when Mr. Waugh steps
down,” Desjardins analyst  Michael Goldberg  said yesterday in
note to clients. Waugh became president of Scotiabank in January
2003 and succeeded Peter Godsoe as CEO in December that year.  Top Spot  Dieter Jentsch, executive vice president for Latin America,
will succeed Porter in the international role, the bank said.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  has risen 6.7 percent this year, the
third-best performer among Canada’s six biggest banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  