-- Shell Profit Rises on Liquefied Natural Gas Income, Shares Climb
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-11-01T17:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/shell-profit-rises-2-3-on-income-from-liquefied-natural-gas-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s third-quarter
profit expanded 2.3 percent after Europe’s biggest oil company
generated increased earnings from liquefied natural gas. Its
shares rose the most since April in  London  trading.  Net income rose to $7.14 billion from $6.98 billion a year
earlier, Shell said today in a statement. Excluding one-time
items and inventory changes, profit was $6.6 billion, beating
the $6.3 billion average  estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Earnings “benefited from the increased contribution from
integrated gas, which included an additional dividend from an
LNG venture,” said Shell, based in The Hague. LNG sales gained
4 percent to 4.97 million metric tons from a year ago, mainly
reflecting the contribution from the Pluto project in  Australia .  Shell, which expects for the first time to pump more gas
than crude this year, is expanding LNG projects on rising demand
from  Asia . It’s the world’s largest supplier of the fuel and has
interests in about a quarter of the LNG ships in operation.  The company’s shares advanced 2.5 percent to 2,177 pence in
London trading, the biggest gain since April 26.  “Although production volumes were relatively flat, the
company again demonstrated very strong cash flow generation in
spite of headwinds with U.S. gas prices,” said  Richard Griffith , an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in London.  Gas to Liquids  Third-quarter production fell about 1 percent to 2.982
million barrels of oil equivalent a day from a year ago partly
because of works at fields in the North Sea, including the
Shearwater platform, and shutdowns in the  Gulf of Mexico  because
of Tropical Storm Isaac. Liquids production dropped 5 percent,
while gas pumping was up 4 percent in the period.  The Pearl gas-to-liquids plant in Qatar has been running at
more than 85 percent of capacity in recent days, Chief Financial
Officer Simon Henry said. “We are very much on track to finish
ramping up towards full capacity in the fourth quarter.” Full-
scale operation at the $19 billion plant, the biggest in the
world, was delayed from July because of maintenance.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  in February forecast 50
percent higher operational cash flow through 2015 on new
projects. The Anglo-Dutch company, which scaled back shale-gas
drilling in the U.S. to focus on oil, agreed in September to pay
$1.9 billion to  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  for liquids-rich acreage
in  Texas .  “We have announced around $6 billion of acquisitions and
new acreage and also around $6 billion of asset sales in 2012,
which will better position Shell for growth,” Voser said in
today’s statement.  U.S. Gas  In North America the company ran 29 rigs drilling liquid-
rich shale at the end of September, from six units a year ago,
the CFO said. Shell more than halved dry-gas drilling to 11
rigs, and focused mostly on Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale as
well as western Canada. This year, “we’ve invested some $700
million less than originally intended on gas,” Henry said.  Shell expects to pump about 50,000 barrels a day of oil
equivalent from liquid-rich shale including  Eagle Ford , Texas,
by the year-end, Henry said in  comments  posted on the company
website.  U.S. gas prices sank 29 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier as slowing global economic growth reduced energy
consumption. Benchmark Brent crude futures fell 2.4 percent.  “We’ve seen prices touch $2” per million British thermal
units in 2012 “whereas we don’t see any really of the shale gas
plays as being economic at anything below $3 and most of them
need $4 to $5,” Henry said. Shell plans projects on $4 to $6
per million Btu and sees $8 as “an upper limit” as buyers will
switch to fuels such as coal for power generation, he said.  Net Charge  The earnings include a net charge of $298 million, “mainly
related to onshore gas properties in  North America .” BP and  BG
Group Plc (BG/)  wrote down the value of some U.S. shale assets when
reporting second-quarter results.  “Impairments were more limited than some could have
feared,” said Dominique Patry, an analyst at Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux SA. “Given competitors’ massive writedown in the
second quarter, some were fearing that Shell would have to carry
the same exercise.”  Shell spent about $600 million on new exploration license
acquisitions in the quarter, including in Benin deepwater, the
Gulf of Mexico and onshore North America. New acreage was also
added off Australia, China,  Malaysia  and Ukraine, it said.  In  Iraq , Shell delayed an expansion of output at the
Majnoon oilfield until next year. Its partners, including
Petroliam Nasional Bhd of Malaysia, plan to boost extraction to
175,000 barrels of oil a day, its first commercial rate.  The field is expected to pump about 70,000 barrels a day at
the end of the year,  Thamir Ghadhban , a senior adviser to Iraqi
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  