-- Shell Says $450 Billion in U.S. LNG Exports Is ‘Optimistic’
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-11-01T16:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/shell-says-450-billion-in-u-s-lng-exports-is-too-optimistic-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  Chief Financial
Officer Simon Henry said total pledges from the energy industry
to invest $350 billion to $450 billion in projects for U.S.
liquefied natural gas exports are “a little bit optimistic.”  Shell, the largest LNG supplier, has held exclusive talks
to take a stake in the Freeport LNG project. The producer faces
rival projects led by companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
 Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) ,  Sempra Energy (SRE)  and  BG Group Plc. (BG/)   “If that’s all going to happen without inflation and with
the support of the American people to export all that American
gas to industrial competitors and it’s all going to happen by
2020, I think it’s a little bit optimistic,” Henry told
reporters today on a conference call. “Today’s headlines
usually become tomorrow’s challenged projects.”  U.S. gas prices fell to a decade-low this year on increased
output from shale deposits. Companies have proposed to develop
LNG export terminals to ship the fuel to Asia where prices are
higher. The plans have run into opposition from politicians, who
worry that it will lead to price increases for U.S. consumers,
and environmental groups opposed to wider gas development.  Exporters have applied to the U.S. for approval for annual
LNG shipments from the country of a combined 150 million tons,
BG Chief Operating Officer Martin Houston said last month. So
far only Cheniere’s Sabine Pass project received the  approval  to
ship LNG to countries not covered by U.S.  free trade agreements .  Four Ventures  “We have taken a view that there might be around 45
million tons somewhere around the decade and beyond,” Houston
said. This volume represents four new LNG export projects at
Lake Charles, Sabine Pass, Freeport and Cameron, he said.  BG Group agreed to buy 5.5 million of the annual 16 million
tons of LNG from the Sabine Pass terminal, which also sold the
fuel to companies including Korea Gas Corp., Gas Natural SDG SA
and Gail  India  Ltd., Cheniere said.  Qatar’s venture with Exxon, Golden Pass Products LLC, in
October said it was approved to export U.S. LNG. The same month,
it applied for approval to export the fuel to non-FTA countries.  BG, the U.K.’s third-largest gas producer, expects the
global LNG market to grow to 450 million tons by 2025, from 240
million tons a year now. The fuel’s share in total world gas use
will expand to 14 percent from 10 percent in the period, BG
Chief Executive Officer Frank Chapman  said  last month.  The U.S. has free trade agreements with  18 nations , which
so far don’t include  Japan , the largest LNG buyer. They also
exclude China and India, which will be the second and third
largest buyers of the fuel by 2025, according to BG forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  