-- Silk Road Plans Investments for Myanmar Fund: Southeast Asia
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-11-02T07:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/silk-road-plans-investments-for-myanmar-fund-southeast-asia.html
Silk Road Management , an investor in
frontier markets, will take stakes in three Myanmar projects by
year-end, the first private-equity deals in  Southeast Asia ’s
poorest nation as it emerges from five decades of isolation.  The  Myanmar Human Capital Fund  closed in September after
raising $25 million from family offices and wealthy individuals
from Mongolia,  Russia  and oil-rich countries in the  Caspian
region , said Alisher Ali, managing partner at Silk Road. The
fund will invest in so-called knowledge-driven industries such
as the Internet, information technology, education and health
care, he said, declining to identify the companies.  “Myanmar’s gross domestic product may easily double within
five years,” Ali said in an interview by phone from  Hong Kong 
on Oct. 31. “And the industries we decided to focus on are
going to triple in the same period.”  Investors are focusing on Myanmar’s economic potential
after a half-century of neglect left the nation, formerly known
as Burma, outside the global financial system. The  International
Monetary Fund  said in September direct foreign investment will
rise 40 percent to a record $3.99 billion this year.  The companies Silk Road plans to invest in may need as much
as $100 million within three years as they expand, which may
require more fundraising, Ali said.  The  Ulan Bator , Mongolia-based company also manages the $30
million Mongolia Human Capital Fund, which it said is the first
private-equity fund in the country. Mongolia’s MSE Top 20 Index
has risen more than tenfold in the past decade, making it the
fifth-best performer among 93 global stock indexes tracked by
Bloomberg.  First-Mover Advantage  “Investing in Myanmar certainly has a first-mover
advantage at this stage,” said  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-
based economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. “There have been
credible signs from the government that they want to increase
transparency and create a sustainable framework for foreign
investment. Having said that, we shouldn’t forget that the
political and economic situation isn’t stable yet.”  Myanmar officials are preparing to take control of a
financial system largely run on informal cash transactions as
companies such as  Western Union Co. (WU)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  announce
plans to operate in the country. Foreign-exchange transactions
have started to shift from informal markets to banks after a
managed float of the currency in April and the easing of
restrictions on importers and exporters last month, an official
with the country’s central bank said in September.  Irreversible Process  “I believe that the government has a strong will to go
through its economic and political reforms,” said Ali, who has
more than 16 years of investment management and banking
experience in emerging and frontier markets including Mongolia
and  Kazakhstan . “The process is irreversible.”  Myanmar may expand 6.2 percent this year, the IMF said in
its October  World Economic Outlook . That compares with 5.1
percent in  Vietnam , 4.8 percent growth in the  Philippines  and 6
percent in  Indonesia .  Myanmar’s parliament yesterday passed another draft of a
foreign investment law for President Thein Sein to sign, a
lawmaker said by phone. The draft eliminates an investment ratio
for sensitive sectors and grants the Myanmar Investment
Commission the authority to negotiate terms with companies, said
Aye Mauk, a lawmaker with Thein Sein’s ruling Union Solidarity
and Development Party.  ‘Already Turbocharged’  Some of the companies will exceed gains in their respective
industries, which are “already turbocharged,” Ali said. The
Internet market is expected to post annual growth rates of more
than 60 percent in the next three years, based on Silk Road’s
estimates, while the media and  information technology  markets
could expand 50 percent. Education and health care are expected
to increase 30 percent a year, with telecommunications and the
financial industries posting faster gains, he said.  Silk Road started Myanmar’s  first property index  in October
to track real estate prices in Yangon, the nation’s commercial
center. The company owns seven equity indexes in  Asia , it said
on its website.  Silk Road Finance, the holding company of Silk Road,
started Mandalay Capital, a Myanmar-focused investment banking
company. The venture, started earlier this year, will connect
investors with Myanmar business and help them with fundraising
and advisory, it said. Silk Road Finance is run by Ali.  Still, frontier markets are set to underperform shares in
developed nations for a second year. The  MSCI Frontier Markets
Index (MXFM)  has risen 1.2 percent so far this year, lagging behind the
10 percent advance in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  tracking stocks in
developed economies.  Risk Appetite  “At present, investing in Myanmar is something to be done
by firms with an appetite for risk and those willing to commit
in the hope of future returns that might accrue according to any
’first-mover’ advantage,” Sean Turnell, an associate professor
who researches Myanmar’s economy at Macquarie University in
Sydney, said in response to an e-mailed query.  Myanmar said authorities seized weapons and made arrests in
a bid to halt almost two weeks of clashes between ethnic Rakhine
Buddhists and Muslim Rohingya near the Bangladesh border as the
death toll increased to 89. At least 5,000 homes were destroyed
in the fighting, leaving more than 32,000 people homeless,
according to a statement released on Thein Sein’s website
earlier this week.  Companies Silk Road plans to invest in may go public in two
to four years as the Myanmar stock exchange becomes “fully
functional” by 2015, Ali said. Some of the companies could also
have their initial public offerings in markets such as Singapore
or  London , which have exchanges set up for small-cap stocks.  IPO Path  “For every single company we are looking at investing, we
clearly would like to have an IPO strategy, an IPO path,” he
said.  Thein Sein has shifted Myanmar toward democracy since he
took office last year to end about five decades of direct
military rule. He is seeking to create jobs ahead of an election
in 2015 that will include former political prisoner Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party.  Western governments are warming up to Thein Sein. The U.S.
in July authorized the first investment in the country in 15
years, and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who met with the
Myanmar president in  New York  in September, has announced that
lifting the import ban signals the next step in “normalizing”
their commercial ties.  Myamar was ranked 180 of 183 nations in  Transparency
International ’s 2011 corruption index. Ali said he’s optimistic
the industries his fund is targeting aren’t tainted by
corruption, which he said may be more prevalent in sectors
involving licenses.  “Those are areas where there is no scope for corruption,”
he said. “It’s all about human capital in terms of the
expertise and value creation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  