-- Sirius XM Reaffirms Annual Forecast on Customer Additions
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-11-01T21:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/sirius-xm-radio-s-profit-shrinks-after-company-pays-down-debt.html
Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) , the largest
U.S. satellite-radio company, affirmed its full-year forecast
for subscriber growth after adding 446,000 subscribers in the
third quarter.  The customer gains, first announced Oct. 10, marked the
best growth in that period for the company since Sirius
Satellite Radio and XM Satellite Radio merged in 2008.  Sirius will “meet or exceed” its 2012 subscriber forecast
of 1.8 million net additions, Chief Executive Officer Mel Karmazin said on a conference call today. A revival in auto
sales is spurring demand for the company’s service. Sirius
radios come pre-installed in about two-thirds of new cars,
Karmazin said last month.  “We believe that this is still conservative,” Karmazin
said today of the company’s subscriber projection. “The fourth
quarter should be another good one.”  The stock advanced 0.4 percent to $2.81 at the close in New
York. The shares have risen 54 percent this year.  Sirius also reiterated its revenue forecast of $3.4
billion, and Karmazin said he remains “very confident” that
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
will be $900 million.  Net income  for the third quarter fell to $74.5 million, or
1 cent a share, from $104.2 million, or 2 cents a share, a year
earlier, the New York-based company said today in a statement.
Sirius took a charge of $107.1 million after extinguishing $868
million of debt in the period. Revenue rose 14 percent to $867.4
million, just ahead of the $866.1 million estimated by analysts.  Liberty Control  Average revenue per user of $12.14 rose 4.1 percent from a
year earlier. Monthly churn increased to 2 percent from 1.9
percent a year ago, although September churn was 1.82 percent,
Karmazin said during today’s earnings conference call.  Billionaire John Malone’s Liberty Media Corp. is waiting
for the Federal Communications Commission to sign off on its bid
to take control of Sirius. Liberty owns almost 50 percent of the
company and has said it plans to go above the majority threshold
once the FCC grants approval. Amid the transition, Karmazin said
on Oct. 23 that he would step down as CEO in February.  Liberty needs FCC approval to complete a takeover because
Sirius holds airwave licenses issued by the agency. Malone said
in July he planned to eventually spin off the stake to Liberty
shareholders, executing a so-called Reverse Morris Trust.  Investors may remain bullish on Sirius because they have
faith Malone will return capital to shareholders after he takes
control, Vijay Jayant, an analyst at ISI Group in New York, said
in a note to clients. Jayant recommends buying the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  