-- Smith & Nephew Third-Quarter Profit Rises on Wound Care
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-11-01T17:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/smith-nephew-third-quarter-profit-rises-on-wound-care.html
Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) ,  Europe ’s biggest
maker of artificial hips and knees, had the biggest drop in
quarterly sales in at least seven years amid continued health-
care price pressure in Europe.  Third-quarter sales fell to $952 million from $1.03 billion
a year earlier, missing the $967.2 million average estimate of
10 analysts. Revenue was also reduced by the absence of revenue
from the Biologics and Clinical Therapies business, which was
spun out as Bioventus LLC in May. Smith & Nephew reports
earnings in dollars, and the currency’s gains reduced revenue
from business outside the U.S.  Smith & Nephew is trying to cut costs and improve margins
as cash-strapped governments choose cheaper implants and
patients delay hip- and knee-replacement surgery because of the
economic downturn. Competitor  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  cut its earnings
forecast for the year on Oct. 17, saying Europe will remain
challenging. The area, which accounts for 30 percent of Smith &
Nephew’s revenue, deteriorated further from the previous
quarter, the company said.  The Birmingham hip replacement system, which had a 36
percent decline in sales, is still in “free-fall,” which is
surprising, Lisa Clive, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein
Ltd. in London, said in an interview.  ‘Notable Headwind’  “At this point it’s a niche product and it should bottom
out,” she said. “I thought we would already be at that
point.” The decline in sales of the system is “still a notable
headwind.”  Smith & Nephew closed down 1 percent to 648.50 pence in
 London , giving the company a market value of 5.85 billion pounds
($9.4 billion).  Trading profit, which excludes reorganization and
acquisition costs, rose to $207 million from $205 million a year
earlier, the London-based company said today in a statement.
Earnings excluding restructuring costs and other items totaled
16.6 cents a share, matching the average estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  While the company still expects a “modest increase” in
the trading profit margin over last year’s 22.5 percent, it said
it has seen a stronger-than-expected lag in its Birmingham
metal-on-metal hip resurfacing business and slightly lower knee
growth relative to the market. The company said previously that
revenue from the sports-medicine and advanced wound-management
units will expand more quickly than the market, while orthopedic
reconstruction will probably grow at close to the industry rate
and orthopedic trauma will lag behind.  Wound Business  Sales at the wound business during the quarter rose 4
percent in local-currency terms to $254 million while revenue
from surgical devices was unchanged on that basis at $698
million, the company said.  Knee-replacement sales declined 1 percent during the
quarter while hip replacement revenue was little changed
excluding metal-on-metal products and down 4 percent in total,
the company said. Sales from sports medicine joint repair rose 8
percent during the quarter, the company said.  Sports medicine sales rose more than expected in the U.S.
due to product introductions there, Clive said.  Smith & Nephew is still scouting potential acquisitions in
wound care and minimally invasive surgery, Bohuon said during a
conference call today. The company would borrow money to make a
big acquisition if the opportunity arises in those areas, as
well as in  emerging markets  such as  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and
 China , Hennah said in August.  The company is reducing its 11,000-person workforce by 7
percent over three years to help save $150 million a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  