-- Storm-Damaged States Seek Alternate Nov. 6 Polling Places
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-11-02T15:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/some-new-jersey-polling-stations-wiped-out-by-sandy.html
Officials along the storm-battered
coasts of  New Jersey , New York and Connecticut are working to
identify alternate polling places for the Nov. 6 election to
replace those without power or damaged by  Hurricane Sandy .  Electrical outages and flooding of beachfront communities
in New Jersey made it difficult to contact municipal clerks to
coordinate plans for the election four days away, officials
said. Police in Nassau County outside  New York City  inspected 52
polling places that election officials couldn’t reach by phone.  New Jersey’s top election official, Lieutenant Governor Kim Guadagno, ordered local election boards to identify by noon
today alternative locations for “inaccessible” polling places.
To ease voting requirements, Guadagno directed all election and
county clerks’ offices to stay open “at a minimum” of eight
hours each day through Nov. 5 for early voting.  “Whether it’s fires or hurricanes or tornadoes,” election
officials “are used to moving polling places,” said R. Doug
Lewis, executive director of the National Association of
Election Officials in Houston. Still, he said, “we are not used
to moving polling places on very short notice.”  “With a major election on the horizon, what you are
looking at” is “basically a logistical nightmare,” Lewis said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  Biggest Storm  Sandy, the biggest Atlantic storm in history, caused at
least 75 U.S. deaths and cut power to 8 million customers. As of
yesterday morning 4.6 million customers remained without power,
and of those more than 3 million were in New York and New
Jersey, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  The voting disruptions will be concentrated in three states
that aren’t expected to determine the outcome of the
presidential race. President  Barack Obama  is projected by polls
to defeat Republican  Mitt Romney  in New York, New Jersey and
Connecticut.  Even so, Connecticut’s Senate race between Democratic
Representative Chris Murphy and Republican  Linda McMahon  may
help determine which party has the majority in the Senate, which
Democrats now control 53-47. Six polls conducted since Oct. 19
give Murphy a six-percentage-point lead. The two are vying to
replace independent  Joe Lieberman , who caucuses with Democrats.  Connecticut Utilities  The two largest utilities serving Connecticut,  Northeast
Utilities (NU) ’ Connecticut Light & Power and  UIL Holding Corp. (UIL) ’s
United Illuminating, said most affected homes and businesses
would have power restored by Nov. 5 or Nov. 6.  Connecticut Secretary of State Denise Merrill was scheduled
today to meet with officials in Bridgeport, Trumbull and
Greenwich about election preparation and tour storm-damaged
precincts, her office said in a statement.  In New Jersey, residents of at least two beachfront
communities in Monmouth County will vote elsewhere and many
polling places will rely on portable generators, said county
spokeswoman Laura Kirkpatrick.  With a population of more than 630,000, Monmouth County is
located along the New Jersey shoreline that faces the mouth of
 New York  harbor.  “Our issue is finding physical places to deliver voting
machines to,” Kirkpatrick said in a telephone interview. ‘A
couple of buildings no longer exist.”  Ideally, voters would be given advance notice by mail of a
change in the location of a polling place. Kirkpatrick said
Monmouth County officials are relying on local radio stations
and newspapers.  Website Notices  Notices will be posted on the county’s website, though many
people don’t have access to the Internet, she said. The county
will “push it out every possible way that we can, hoping that
neighbors are going to let other neighbors know,” Kirkpatrick
said.  Residents of Sea Bright, on a barrier island south of the
Sandy Hook Gateway National Recreation Area, were evacuated
before the storm and will vote in another town, Kirkpatrick
said. The storm destroyed the town’s municipal building, fire
station and police station.  Union Beach, on Raritan Bay across from New York City’s
borough of  Staten Island , has “no polling places because the
town is a mess,” Kirkpatrick said. Officials may need to find
new voting places in two other beach communities, Keansburg and
Belmar, she said.  Guadagno, who also serves as New Jersey’s secretary of
state, told reporters in Moonachie yesterday that U.S. Defense
Department trucks will be sent to towns where polling places are
damaged or unreachable. They will bear signs saying “vote
here,” Guadagno said.  Barrier Islands  To the south, in Ocean County, widespread power outages and
flooding isolated 16 communities on  barrier islands  and slowed
efforts to determine the extent of damage, said Jason Varano, an
assistant supervisor for the election board.  Some of the county’s 220 voting locations were destroyed,
so officials are “working on a game plan going forward,” he
said.  Election officials have extended hours for early voting at
two Ocean County locations, Toms River and Stafford township.
These locations will be open every day through Nov. 5 to let
people cast ballots in person before Election Day. Before the
storm hit, 22,000 voters had cast early ballots, Varano said.  In Connecticut, only five of Bridgeport’s 23 polling places
had electricity and those buildings were being used to shelter
residents displaced by a 10-foot  storm surge , said Av Harris, a
state spokesman.  The state’s largest city and a Democratic stronghold,
Bridgeport is important in Murphy’s Senate race against McMahon.  ‘Serious Decisions’  Officials in Connecticut’s hardest-hit areas “have some
pretty serious decisions” to make quickly, Harris said.  “We need to do everything we can to make sure that voting
goes as smoothly as possible Tuesday because it will go on,” he
said. “This is it. You can’t reschedule it for another day.”  As many as 90 of Connecticut’s 800 polling places were
still without power yesterday, Merrill said in a statement.
Almost 354,000 customers in the state didn’t have power as of 9
a.m. yesterday, the Energy Department said. At the peak, 626,559
 Connecticut  customers didn’t have electricity.  ‘Won’t Be Disenfranchised’  In Nassau County, on  Long Island , 143 of 375 polling places
were without power yesterday, said William Biamonte, a county
election board commissioner. He said the Long Island Power
Authority told him that  Long Beach , Woodmere and Island Park
won’t have electricity restored by Election Day. Signs will be
placed at polling places that are moved to inform voters of the
change so “they won’t be disenfranchised,” he said.  He predicted that the typical 70 percent turnout among
900,000 registered voters in a presidential year will be
depressed “by people just being busy getting their lives back
together.”  If “all the logistical problems” county election
officials have dealt with in the past were rolled “into a big
ball, it would be a pimple on what we are looking at right
now,” Biamonte said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  