-- Sony Posts 7th Straight Loss as TV Sales Slump on Economy
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-11-01T07:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/sony-posts-7th-straight-loss-as-tv-sales-slump-on-economy.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s biggest consumer-
electronics exporter, unexpectedly posted its seventh straight
 quarterly loss  on falling demand as consumers flock to
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co. devices.  The second-quarter  net loss  totaled 15.5 billion yen ($194
million), the Tokyo-based company said in a  statement  today.
That compared with the 15.6 billion-yen  average  profit of three
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company kept its
estimate to report its first annual profit in five years.  Sony is cutting 10,000 jobs and selling assets as Chief
Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  focuses on mobile devices, games
and digital imaging after four consecutive annual losses. Sony
sold a chemical-products making unit, stakes in two display-
making ventures and invested in  Olympus Corp. (7733)  to revive growth
after racking up 692 billion yen in losses selling TVs in the
past eight years amid competition with market leader Samsung.  “TV sales are worsening this year amid economic downturns
in the U.S. and  Europe ,” said Junya Ayada, an  analyst  at Daiwa
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “As the global recession continues,
consumers are no longer spending much money on electronic
products, as they now have a smartphone that can satisfy most of
their needs.”  Estimates Cut  The shares  fell 4.1 percent to 915 yen in  Tokyo  trading
today, extending the loss this year to 34 percent.  The maker of Bravia TVs, PlayStation game machines and Vaio
computers kept its full-year net income forecast unchanged at 20
billion yen and operating profit at 130 billion yen. The sales
estimate was reduced to 6.6 trillion yen from 6.8 trillion yen.  “The operating environment for Sony continued to be severe
primarily due to a slowing of the global economy,” Sony said in
the statement.  Sony cut its annual TV sales target to 14.5 million units
from 15.5 million units, the company said in a statement today.
The business, slated to post a ninth consecutive loss this year,
will turn profitable next fiscal year, Chief Financial Officer
Masaru Kato told reporters today.  Operating loss at the home-entertainment unit, which
includes the TV operations, shrank to 15.8 billion yen in the
quarter ended Sept. 30 compared with 41.8 billion yen a year
earlier, Sony said in the statement.  Sony is ahead of its plan to turn around the TV business,
Hirai said in October. The company has halved the number of
Bravia models sold in the U.S. and  Japan  to a combined 39 from
79.  Camera, Computer Sales  The company ended a TV panel venture with Sharp Corp.
earlier this year after closing down a similar partnership with
Samsung last year as part of efforts to trim costs.  Full-year compact camera sales estimate was reduced to 16
million units from 18 million units, according to the statement.
Sony also cut its estimates for game players this year to 10
million and personal computers to 8.5 million units.  Sony’s run of four straight  full-year losses , the worst
since it listed in 1958, and a stronger yen pushed the shares to
an intraday low of 849 yen on Sept. 5. That’s the lowest level
for the stock since April 1980, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Worth over  $120 billion  in 2000, the maker of Walkman music
players is now valued at about $11 billion, compared with $560
billion for Cupertino, California-based Apple and $175 billion
for Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung.  Panasonic’s Forecast  Sony, the world’s third-largest TV maker, will cut 10,000
jobs, or about 6 percent of its workforce, slash costs, reduce
the number of TV models and consider an alliance on batteries
for electric cars, Hirai said in April after taking over from
 Howard Stringer . In August, Sony said the main  TV business  may
lose about 80 billion yen in the 12 months to March 31,
remaining unprofitable for a ninth consecutive year.  Panasonic yesterday said it will post a loss of 765 billion
yen in the year ending in March, scrapping an earlier forecast
for a profit of 50 billion yen amid slumping demand for TVs and
writedowns.  Industrywide TV demand fell 8 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter of this year, according to DisplaySearch,
led by a 77 percent plunge in shipments in Japan. Sony’s
domestic  peers   Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Sharp also posted record
losses last year mainly because of falling demand at the TV unit.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s top camera maker, last week slashed
its profit forecast for 2012 because of slower sales growth as
consumers switch to taking pictures with smartphones. Sony
competes in the camera market with its Cyber-shot, Alfa and NEX
models.  Samsung’s Record Profit  Last week, Samsung, the world’s biggest maker of TVs,
phones and memory chips used in computers, reported record
profit that beat analysts’ estimates. Samsung is  Asia ’s largest
consumer-electronics company.  To focus more on the mobile-phone business, Sony last year
bought out Ericsson AB’s stake in their venture making Xperia
handsets. Hirai also is boosting production capacity of image
sensors and agreed in July to acquire U.S. gaming platform
company Gaikai Inc. for about $380 million as Sony prepares to
expand its cloud-based entertainment business.  In September, Sony agreed to invest 50 billion yen in
Olympus, the world’s biggest maker of endoscopes that admitted
to a 13-year accounting fraud last year. Under the agreement,
Sony will buy an 11.46 percent stake and become the largest
shareholder in two steps. The two companies will set up a joint
venture by Dec. 31 to develop, make and sell new endoscopes and
other medical devices, they said in September.  Last month, Sony completed  the sale  of Sony Chemical &
Information Device Corp. to Development  Bank of Japan (8301)  for 57.2
billion yen. The sale added 8.2 billion yen to second-quarter
operating profit. In June, Sony also sold a 7 percent stake in a
display venture with Sharp Corp. for 10 billion yen in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 