-- South Africa PMI Drops for Third Month as Mine Unrest Persists
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-11-01T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/south-africa-pmi-drops-for-third-month-as-mine-unrest-persists.html
South Africa’s purchasing managers’
 index  fell for a third month in October, indicating a slump in
manufacturing, as mining strikes persisted and demand from
 Europe  and  China  waned, Kagiso Tiso Holdings said.  The seasonally adjusted index declined to 47.1 from a
revised 48.3 in September, Johannesburg-based  Kagiso  said in an
e-mailed statement today. An index level below 50 indicates a
contraction in factory output.  Strikes that have shut mines owned by  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  and Anglo
American Platinum Ltd. cut gold and platinum output by 10.1
billion rand ($1.2 billion) this year, according to the National
Treasury. Africa’s largest  economy  is set to expand 2.5 percent
this year, down from 3.1 percent in 2013, as labor unrest and
Europe’s debt crisis lower demand for manufactured exports.  “The prolonged strikes in the mining sector through
October and isolated industrial action in the vehicle
manufacturing sector may have contributed to the weakness in the
South African PMI during the month,” Andre Coetzee, managing
director of the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply,
which conducts the survey on behalf of Kagiso, said in the
statement.  The median estimate of three economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for the index to reach 46.5.  Interest Rates  The Reserve Bank on Sept. 20 held its benchmark  repurchase
rate  at 5 percent, the lowest level in more than 30 years, to
help bolster the economy. The deficit on the current account,
the broadest measure of trade in goods and services, widened to
6.4 percent of gross domestic product in the second quarter, the
highest in almost four years, as exports slumped.  The index measuring business activity dropped 3 points to
43.2, while the new sales orders index declined 3 points to
45.3, Kagiso said. The employment index rose to 49.2 from 47.9
in September, while a price sub-index increased 1.3 points to
75.8, it said.  The Bureau for Economic Research, based at the University
of Stellenbosch near Cape Town, conducts the PMI survey along
with the institute on behalf of Kagiso.  The data was revised due to an annual recalculation of
seasonal factors used to adjust the index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  