-- Spot Gasoline in California Falls on Flaring and Higher Stocks
-- B y   J o s h u a   F a l k
-- 2012-11-01T21:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/spot-gasoline-in-california-falls-on-flaring-and-higher-stocks.html
Spot gasoline in California dropped
against futures as stockpiles increased on the West Coast and
Tesoro Corp. said a vacuum unit at its refinery near  Los Angeles 
would start in November.  Prices slipped against futures after the Energy Department
said gasoline inventories increased 2.5 percent to 28.7 million
barrels in PADD 5, which includes California, and U.S.  gasoline
demand  stayed below 9 million barrels a day for an eighth week.
Tesoro said the unit at Wilmington would deliver “significant
product yield improvements.”  “You don’t buy in a down market unless you absolutely need
to to take care of demand and demand is down,” said Bob van der
Valk, an independent petroleum industry analyst in Terry,
 Montana . “There’s a lull between now and Thanksgiving. There’s
nobody out really shopping. Demand will hover. The low has not
been hit.”  Spot Carbob in Los Angeles fell 3 cents to a premium of 8
cents a gallon versus gasoline futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 3:58 p.m. East Coast time, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Carbob in  San Francisco  decreased 3.5 cents a gallon to a
discount of 3.5 cents to futures.  California-grade, or CARB, diesel in San Francisco gained
1.5 cents to a premium of 6.75 cents a gallon against heating
oil futures traded on the Nymex. The same fuel in Los Angeles
climbed 0.5 cent to 7.5 cents a gallon over futures.  Conventional 84 sub-octane gasoline to be blended with
ethanol in  Portland , Oregon, was unchanged at a 21.5-cent
discount to gasoline futures. Low-sulfur diesel in Portland
advanced 7 cents to 21 cents a gallon above heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Falk in  New York  at 
 jfalk19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  