-- Starbucks Jumps as Profit Increases on U.S. Sales Gain
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-11-02T20:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/starbucks-fourth-quarter-profit-climbs-as-u-s-sales-gain.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest
coffee-shop operator, rose the most in 19 months after yesterday
reporting fourth-quarter profit increased as new products helped
boost U.S. sales.  Starbucks climbed 9.1 percent to $50.84 at the close in New
York for the biggest gain since March 10, 2011. The  shares  have
advanced 11 percent this year.  Net income  climbed 0.1 percent to $359 million from $358.5
million a year earlier, the Seattle-based company said in a
statement yesterday. Profit per share fell 1 cent to 46 cents as
the number of shares outstanding increased. Fourth-quarter
profit per share included 2 cents of charges related to store
closings in Europe. The average estimate of 26 analysts was 45
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  has sought to boost
sales by selling non-coffee items such as juice, tea and energy
drinks at Starbucks shops. The company also recently introduced
a single-serve coffee machine, the Verismo, to compete with
brewers made by  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  and  Nestle
SA. (NESN)   “They’re really searching for life even beyond coffee,”
 Jack Russo , a St. Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones & Co.,
said in an interview. “They’re trying to diversify the business
model a little bit” and those different things “have all
helped” U.S. revenue, he said.  The company said that profit in its fiscal 2013 will be
$2.06 a share to $2.15 a share. That compares with a previous
 projection  of $2.04 to $2.14.  Americas Sales  Sales at stores open at least 13 months in the U.S.,  Canada 
and  Latin America  advanced 7 percent in the quarter, helped by
the U.S. retail business, Starbucks said in the statement.
Analysts estimated a 5.1 percent increase, according to the
average of 25 projections from Consensus Metrix.  U.S.  consumer confidence  rose in October from the month
before to the highest level since before the last recession
began five years ago. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
final consumer sentiment index climbed to 82.6, the highest
since September 2007.  Global same-store sales rose 6 percent, compared with the 5
percent analysts’ estimate, according to Consensus Metrix, a
researcher owned by Wayne, New Jersey-based Kaul Advisory Group.
Same-store sales in the company’s Europe,  Middle East  and Africa
region declined 1 percent in the quarter. Analysts estimated a
gain of 0.6 percent.  Store Closings  Starbucks closed 22 stores in Europe, mostly in the U.K.,
in the fourth quarter and through the end of October, said  Jim
Olson , a company spokesman. The company is closing stores in
Europe amid turnaround efforts it’s making there. Earlier this
year, the coffee seller added more espresso to its lattes and
ran television ads in the U.K. to help boost sales and attract
customers.  There may be charges related to the store closings in the
company’s fiscal 2013 first and second quarters, Chief Financial
Officer Troy Alstead said in an interview yesterday.  Starbucks, which gets more than 20 percent of its revenue
from international locations, is expanding in India, seeking to
benefit from the growing middle class there. The coffee brewer,
which formed a joint venture with  Tata Global Beverages Ltd. (TGBL) ,
opened its first cafes in Mumbai in October and will open a
store in New Delhi early next year.  India  will be one of the company’s five largest markets in
the long term, Schultz said during a conference call yesterday.  Revenue advanced 11 percent to $3.36 billion in the three
months ended Sept. 30. Analysts estimated $3.39 billion, on
average.  Starbucks has more than 17,600 stores worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  