-- First Solar, SunPower Seek New Markets as Sales Decline
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/sunpower-loss-exceeds-estimates-as-production-declines.html
SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  and  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) ,
the largest U.S. solar manufacturers, are boosting efforts to
expand in new markets as slowing demand in mature regions pulled
down third-quarter revenue.  First Solar sales declined 17 percent to $839 million from
a year earlier as the Tempe, Arizona-based company completed or
slowed construction on some large solar farms in the U.S.,
according to a statement yesterday.  SunPower sales fell 8 percent to $649 million as revenue in
the  Europe ,  Middle East  and Africa region slumped 70 percent,
largely on weak demand in Europe.  Government support for solar power is waning in Europe and
the U.S., and the two companies are pursuing projects in other
regions to compensate for slowing sales, said Ben Kallo, an
analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San Francisco.  Both companies are “moving away from subsidized markets
and into markets that are more sustainable,” including Africa,
 Australia  and India, Kallo said in an interview.  SunPower, based in San Jose, California, expects sales to
grow in Africa and the Middle East, while “the European market
continues to be challenging,” Chief Executive Officer  Tom Werner  said on a conference call yesterday.  Shipments to Japan increased 30 percent from the prior
quarter, and the company also anticipates growth in China, India
and Australia, he said. “We are also starting to monetize our
project pipeline in  Israel ,” Werner said.  New Markets  First Solar’s Chief Executive Officer Jim Hughes, hired in
May, is seeking to expand in some of the same regions. The
government of Dubai selected the company in October to build the
country’s first solar farm, a 13-megawatt project that’s
expected to be the initial phase of a $3.3 billion initiative.  First Solar is seeking to supply 20 percent of India’s
panel market and agreed in June to build Australia’s two biggest
photovoltaic projects. The company also sees Thailand and
Indonesia as growing solar markets.  Both companies are building large solar farms in the
Southwest U.S., and need to develop new sales channels to
replace revenue from projects that will eventually be completed,
said  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates
Inc. in Houston.  First Solar completed its 50-megawatt Silver State North
solar farm in  Nevada  in the second quarter and slowed
construction on its 290-megawatt Agua Caliente project in
 Arizona  in the third quarter. It cited both as reasons for its
falling sales, according to the statement.  End Approaching  “U.S. projects are well under way -- the end of many of
those is within sight,” Molchanov said in an interview. The
company is “profitable now, but the backlog is being
depleted.”  First Solar’s net income was $87.9 million, or $1 a share,
compared with $196.5 million, or $2.25, a year earlier. The
company was expected to earn 87 cents, the average of 15
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  SunPower’s sales in the Americas increased 36 percent to
$502.3 million, driven by its 601-megawatt Antelope Valley
project and the 250-megawatt California Valley Solar Ranch
project, according to a statement yesterday.  The company, majority-owned by  Total SA (FP) , reported a loss of
$48.5 million, or 41 cents a share, from $370.8 million, or
$3.77 a share, a year earlier. The company was expected to lose
21 cents a share, the average of eight analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company produced 227 megawatts of panels in the
quarter, compared with 272 megawatts a year earlier. Global
 prices  for solar panels declined 29 percent in the last 12
months to 76 cents a watt.  Eventually, revenue from the large projects will end, and
new sales will probably be at lower prices,  Christopher
Blansett , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in San Francisco,
said in an interview. SunPower and First Solar are both “living
off of borrowed time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  