-- Swedish Krona Slumps as Manufacturing Contraction Deepens
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-11-01T09:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/sweden-manufacturing-slump-deepens-as-euro-crisis-sap-demand-1-.html
Sweden’s krona slumped after a survey
indicated a contraction in the nation’s manufacturing industry
deepened last month as exporters struggle to stay competitive
against the fallout of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  An index based on responses from about 200 purchasing
managers fell to a seasonally adjusted 43.1 in October, its
lowest reading in more than three years, from 44.7 the previous
month, Stockholm-based  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , which compiles the index,
said today. A reading below 50 signals a contraction. The
 average estimate  of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a reading of 45.  The data “strengthen our fears that fourth-quarter gross
domestic product will be very weak,” Anna Raman, a senior
analyst at Nykredit Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said in a note to
clients. It “makes a Riksbank cut in December almost a
certainty,” she said.  The krona lost as much as 0.45 percent against the euro and
traded at 8.6262 as of 10:21 a.m. in Stockholm, making it the
biggest loser of the major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
against the dollar, the yen and the euro. Versus the dollar, the
krona sank 0.6 percent to 6.6724.  Exports Suffer  Swedish exports, which account for about half the nation’s
economic output, fell 13 percent in September as demand from
Europe falters.  Manufacturing confidence  last month hit a three-
year low and the central bank in October signaled it may cut
interest rates again in December to support an expansion.  In neighboring  Norway ,  a manufacturing  decline also
deepened last month as the nation’s  purchasing managers ’ index
slipped to 48.7 from a revised 49.1 in September, Oslo-based
Fokus Bank said today.  Norway’s krone was little changed at 7.3872 against the
euro, and fell 0.2 percent versus the dollar to 5.7127.  Both the Norwegian and Swedish central banks last month
pushed back plans to tighten monetary policy after keeping their
main interest rates unchanged.  Swedish economic  growth  will slow to 0.9 percent this year
from 3.9 percent in 2011 as “ exports are being clearly
dampened by the weak activity in the euro area,” the Riksbank
said last week. That makes a rate cut this winter more likely
than an increase, the Riksbank said.  Norges Bank  Norges Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said yesterday he
probably won’t start raising  interest rates  until March at the
earliest, compared with a previous forecast for as early as
December.  “We are now also starting to see ramification effects from
the euro-zone woes into Norway,” said Shakeb Syed, chief
economist at SpareBank1 Markets in Oslo. “Sweden doesn’t have
the upside effects from the oil industry that Norway has” and
is therefore “feeling the strain more than we are doing,” he
said.  Sweden’s production sub-index fell to 40.3 from 43.9 while
the order index fell to 40.1 from 42.1. The employment index was
unchanged at 43 and the delivery time index fell to 40.4 from
45.2.  “The biggest contributor to the decline was production,
followed by shorter delivery times and lower order intake,”
Swedbank said in a statement. “The weaker demand is manifesting
itself primarily in falling export orders, while the domestic
market -- even though weak -- is faring somewhat better.”  In Norway, the PMI sub-index measuring orders rose to 49.6
from 47.3 in September, while the employment index dropped to
49.1 from 50.7 and the production measure decreased to 48.4 from
49.2. Inventories fell to 44.1 from 46.5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  