-- U.K. Home Prices Rise 0.6% as Stability Reigns, Nationwide Says
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2012-11-01T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/u-k-home-prices-rise-0-6-as-stability-reigns-nationwide-says.html
U.K.  house prices  rebounded in
October to erase the previous month’s losses in a  property
market  characterized by “relative stability” and subdued
transaction levels,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  The cost of a home increased 0.6 percent from September,
when it fell 0.4 percent, the Swindon, England-based customer-
owned lender said in an e-mailed statement today. From a year
earlier, prices fell 0.9 percent, putting the average value at
164,153 pounds ($264,900).  “The annual pace of change continues to display a picture
of relative stability,”  Robert Gardner , chief economist at
Nationwide, said in the statement. “Housing-market conditions
are likely to remain fairly subdued until there is a sustained
improvement in the wider economic environment.”  Gardner’s analysis chimes with other property reports
suggesting that the housing outlook remains overshadowed by the
lack of a sustained economic recovery. While  gross domestic
product  rebounded with a 1 percent surge in the third quarter,
the most since 2007, Bank of England officials say the final
three months of the year may be weaker.  The economy “remains extremely fragile,” Gardner said.
“With households and the public sector focused on repairing
their finances rather than spending, the economic recovery is
likely to remain fairly sluggish.”  Fluctuations  Gardner said that market stability can be observed in the
pattern of annual changes in  house prices . Since 2010, they have
fluctuated in a “narrow band” between  maximum increases and
declines  of 1.5 percent on Nationwide’s index.  The Bank of England’s Funding for Lending Scheme, a credit-
easing plan to increase lending in the economy, may support the
mortgage market, Gardner said. Approvals for  home loans 
increased to a four-month high of 50,024 in September, the
central bank said on Oct. 29.  Other housing-market reports have offered a similar message
to that of Nationwide. Lloyds Bank Group Plc’s Halifax division
said on Oct. 4 that  prices  fell for a third month in September
and will probably stay little changed into 2013. Hometrack Ltd.
said this week that prices declined last month and a market
recovery is unlikely without sustained economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  