-- U.K. Coalition Split Again as Clegg Attacks Cameron’s EU Plans
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-11-01T14:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/u-k-coalition-split-again-as-clegg-attacks-cameron-s-eu-plans.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg
attacked David Cameron’s plans to repatriate powers from the
European Union, just hours after their parties stood united in
accusing their Labour opponents of “opportunism” over  Europe .  The prime minister suffered a rebellion in the House of
Commons last night when 53 of his Conservative Party lawmakers
voted to demand he negotiate a real-terms EU budget cut instead
of his current negotiating position of an inflation-only
increase. Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader, said today he is
“as one” with Cameron on the budget, calling Labour
“dishonest” and “hypocritical” for voting with the Tory
rebels to defeat the government.  Even so, Clegg, who served as an EU lawmaker before
entering British politics, used a speech in London to set out
his wider objections to the Tories’ aim of distancing Britain
from Europe, emphasizing the coalition’s differences. Cameron
has pledged to seek a “fresh settlement” of the U.K.’s
relationship with the EU.  “I want to focus on the proposal doing the rounds that the
best way to improve the U.K.’s position in Europe is to
renegotiate the terms of our relationship with the rest of the
EU: We should opt out of the bad bits, stay opted in to the good
bits, and the way to do that is a repatriation of British
powers,” Clegg said.  ‘False Promise’  “That seems very reasonable; in fact, it’s a pretty
seductive offer -- who would disagree with that?” he said.
“But look a little closer, because a grand, unilateral
repatriation of powers might sound appealing but in reality, it
is a false promise, wrapped in a Union Jack.”  The issue of Europe has dogged Cameron throughout his two-
year premiership, as it did his Conservative predecessors.
Splits over Europe contributed to the fall of Margaret Thatcher
in 1990 and hobbled her successor, John Major. Some Tory
lawmakers want to withdraw from the 27-nation bloc altogether.  The deputy prime minister made it clear he disagrees with
Cameron’s plans to opt-out of 130 EU law-and-order directives
and then to opt back in to some of them. Clegg said he would not
ask the domestic intelligence agency, MI5, and the police to
“protect the British people with one hand tied behind their
back.”  Clegg also said he would not back any revision of the
Lisbon Treaty to repatriate powers to Britain unless “I am 100
percent satisfied we can opt back in to the measures needed to
protect British citizens, and if I am convinced we are not
creating waste and duplication, incurring unnecessary costs.”  Asked by reporters today what the government’s policy was,
Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, replied that “it’s a bit
difficult for me to answer. The coalition parties have two
different positions on that issue. It’s not newsworthy to say
that there’s two parties and the prime minister and deputy prime
minster have different views on the issue of Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at   ebuckle@bloomberg.net  