-- U.K. Economic Outlook Raised by CBI After Rebound From Recession
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-11-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/u-k-economic-outlook-raised-by-cbi-after-rebound-from-recession.html
Britain’s biggest business lobby
raised its U.K. economic forecasts for this year and next after
a surge in  third-quarter growth  and said the  Bank of England 
will probably refrain from expanding stimulus next week.  The economy will stagnate this year and expand 1.4 percent
in 2013, the  Confederation of British Industry  said in a report
published in London today. In August, it predicted a 0.3 percent
contraction and a 1.3 percent expansion respectively. Growth may
accelerate to about 2 percent in 2014.  The U.K.’s rebound from a recession was partly due to one-
time factors such as Olympic ticket sales. While expansion may
continue in the current quarter, the economy remains vulnerable
to shocks from abroad, CBI Director General  John Cridland  said.
He also said the the Bank of England may only pause its stimulus
program on Nov. 8 and policy makers may restart the asset-
purchase program later to aid the economic recovery.  “The economic outlook is challenging,” Cridland said at a
briefing yesterday. “Risks are on the downside. It’s more
likely than not that European policy makers will continue to do
enough to keep the  euro zone  together, but there has to be a
risk that slows down global growth.”  Anna Leach, the CBI’s head of economic analysis, said the
U.S. fiscal cliff will add to the uncertainty on the economic
outlook through to the end of the year. The cliff refers to more
than $600 billion of federal spending cuts and tax increases
that will automatically take effect at the start of next year
unless Congress acts. The impact on the  U.S. economy  in the
fourth quarter from  Hurricane Sandy  will be “relatively
limited,” Leach said.  ‘Marginally Positive’  In the U.K., fourth-quarter growth will be “marginally
positive” given that there will probably be few one-time
factors to distort the data, Cridland said. Households, trade
and business investment will make stronger contributions to
growth next year, he said.  Cridland called on the government to boost infrastructure
investment to promote a rebalancing of the economy away from
London and the southeast, though he continued to support its
policy for tackling the deficit. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  will present his year-end budget statement to
Parliament on Dec. 5.  “We remain rock solid in supporting the chancellor on the
necessity of  deficit reduction ,” Cridland said. “If he could
stick to the deficit-reduction plan and find a little more to
spend on capital, I would welcome that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  