-- U.K. Uses Cosmic-Ray Technology to Foil Nuclear Smugglers
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-11-01T12:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/u-k-uses-cosmic-ray-technology-to-foil-nuclear-smugglers.html
British scientists are using
technology developed at the  Large Hadron Collider  to create a
new generation of detectors that harness cosmic rays to thwart
smugglers of nuclear materials.  The machines, which are at the prototype stage, pick up
muons, a type of subatomic particle that penetrates substances
that block X-rays and many other types of radiation. Their path
is deflected by very dense matter, a trait that can be used to
help security forces detect radioactive materials as well as
containers designed to shield them.  “Only six months ago, I would not have been able to openly
discuss Britain’s work on detection,” Foreign Office Minister
Alistair Burt told a meeting of scientists in  London  today. “A
particular success is the production of a muon-based detector
using novel technologies, providing both a test bed for advanced
detection methods and also arms control verification tools.”  The meeting of scientists from about 40 countries was
intended to allow them to discuss better ways of stopping
terrorists from acquiring and moving nuclear material. “The
number of incidents of nuclear detection and loss has been
growing,” Burt said.  Britain has deployed “passive sensors,” which detect
increases in radioactivity, at ports and airports, and at the
Olympic Park in London during this year’s games. No radioactive
material was detected during the event, Burt said.  Europe ’s Large Hadron Collider, built underground near
Geneva, opened in 2008 and is designed to study subatomic
physics and the origins of the universe.  “The technology has come a long way,” Burt said. “From
its beginning in the 1960s, when Nobel Prize-winning physicist
Luis Alvarez set up muon detectors in a chamber beneath the
second pyramid of Cephron in  Egypt  to look for second chambers.
Now nuclear detection systems are being developed that only take
up a cubic meter of space and can produce three-dimensional
images.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 