-- Barclays’ Energy Trading in Record $470 Million U.S. Fine
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-11-01T18:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/u-s-proposes-record-penalty-for-barclays-energy-trades.html
U.S. regulators proposed a record
$469.9 million in penalties against  Barclays Plc (BARC) , and an
additional $18 million on four of its former traders, as part of
stepped up enforcement against energy-market manipulation.  The  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  issued an order
yesterday directing the London-based bank to show why it
shouldn’t have to pay a $435 million civil penalty and give up
$34.9 million in profit for allegedly gaming markets in the
western U.S. from late 2006 to 2008. The FERC also proposed an
individual penalty of $15 million for trader Scott Connelly and
$1 million each for three colleagues.  “We are disappointed by the action that FERC took today
and strongly disagree with the allegations made by FERC against
Barclays and its former traders,”  Mark Lane , a Barclays
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We believe that our
trading was legitimate and in compliance with applicable law.”  Barclays said yesterday that it is also the subject of
separate probes by the U.S. Justice Department and Securities
and Exchange Commission. The agencies are trying to determine
whether third parties who help the bank win business comply with
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In June, U.K. and U.S.
regulators fined Barclays for manipulating the London interbank
offered rate.  ‘Reckless’ Conduct  The FERC order is part of a drive by the agency to combat
manipulation in energy markets, where utilities and generators
buy and sell electricity. The agency, which also is probing
trading by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , in
February created a division in its enforcement office to police
the markets.  “Staff concludes that Barclays’ conduct constitutes, at a
minimum, recklessness,” according to the agency’s filing. The
traders knew their actions were “likely unlawful,” and ignored
warnings from Joseph Gold, a Barclays’ managing director,
according to FERC.  The traders were willing to accept losses in next-day
electricity markets in order benefit Barclays’ positions in the
InterContinental Exchange Inc., the agency said.  “Barclays’ cash trading produced significant, repeated and
avoidable losses,”  according to the filing.  The actions cost other buyers and sellers in energy and
financial markets an estimated $139.3 million, according to the
agency.  ‘Manipulative Scheme’  FERC staff in a  notice  issued April 5 said four Barclays
energy traders -- Connelly and Daniel Brin, Karen Levine and
Ryan Smith -- allegedly coordinated to manipulate electricity
markets. Connelly warranted higher penalty “as the leader of
the manipulative scheme,” FERC said, citing agency staff.  Barclays hired Connelly in May 2006 to build a power
trading desk, and he recruited the other traders, according to
FERC. Connelly said in his testimony to FERC staff that he was
trying to build Barclays’ profile and reviewed his colleagues’
performance “holistically” instead of examining their daily
losses in electricity markets, the FERC said.  The company and former traders have 30 days to respond to
the agency. Barclays can challenge the proposed penalties at the
FERC or the case could be referred to a U.S. district court.  The order is a “one-sided document” and Barclays will
“vigorously defend this matter,” Lane said in the company’s
statement.  Executives Ousted  Barclays settled a case over its role in rigging global
 interest rates , agreeing in June to pay a record fine of 290
million pounds to regulators who found traders and senior
managers tried to manipulate the Libor and Euribor, its euro
equivalent. The fine triggered the exit of Chairman Marcus Agius, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and Chief
Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier, the lender’s three most
senior executives, as well as Alison Carnwath, head of the
British bank’s remuneration committee.  “Going after individual traders with civil penalties is
not common and represents a more serious and determined attempt
by FERC to discipline market traders and bring them into
compliance with FERC’s views of conduct in wholesale electric
markets,” Alan Isemonger, founder of Energy Market Expertise
LLC, a Sacramento, California-based consulting firm, said in an
e-mail.  Regulators “have been cracking down on market manipulation
whereby companies essentially leverage one market to influence
the outcome of another,” said Isemonger, a former market
monitor for California’s power-grid operator.  10 Probes  Since January 2011, the FERC has announced more than 10
probes of alleged manipulation in electricity and natural-gas
markets, and agency Chairman Jon Wellinghoff has vowed that
“senior management will be held accountable” for violations.
The agency this year reached a record $245 million settlement
with Constellation Energy Group Inc. over allegations of market
manipulation in the U.S. northeast.  The FERC this year said it was investigating J.P. Morgan
Ventures Energy Corp. for allegedly gaming energy markets in
 California  and the Midwest, resulting in at least $73 million in
improper payments to generators. The company on Oct. 18
apologized to regulators for making what it said were
inadvertent mistakes in responding to investigators as it seeks
to retain its energy-trading license.  The agency in December issued a preliminary determination
that Deutsche Bank’s energy trading unit manipulated the
California power market in 2010, which may result in a $1.5
million fine and the loss of $123,198 in profits. The company
has until Nov. 5 to respond to the agency’s allegations.  Barclays yesterday posted a 29 percent gain in third-
quarter pretax profit. Excluding provisions and accounting
losses from revaluing the bank’s own debt, the profit rose to
1.73 billion pounds ($2.8 billion). Its shares rose 5.2 percent
to 239.25 pence in London trading today after tumbling 4.7
percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  