-- U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for Nov. 1 to Jan. 31, 2013 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-11-01T13:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-nov-1-to-jan-31-2013-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the  National Weather
Service  in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - During the previous two weeks,
cool, wet weather overspread the northwestern U.S., while
showers helped to improve drought conditions across parts of the
Midwest. In the East, heavy rains associated with extratropical
transitioning Hurricane Sandy erased drought across much of the
mid-Atlantic and Northeast, but also caused flooding, wind
damage and destructive  storm surge . In contrast, abnormal
dryness persisted across the central and southern Plains and
much of the Southeast, promoting drought persistence and modest
expansion outside of some spotty relief in central Texas. During
the upcoming three months, enhanced chances of abnormal dryness
across the West keep prospects of significant improvement low,
though further drought expansion into the Northwest is less
likely due to the initial wet conditions and falling
probabilities of abnormal dryness in the more recent model data.
Some improvement is expected for central and southern California
due primarily to the wet season climatology. Some improvement is
also expected across the northern tier of the U.S. due to a
greater chance of enhanced wetness in November, with further
drought reduction possible across parts of  North Dakota  and
 Minnesota  before the winter freeze. Drought persistence is
likely across the remainder of the Plains and the Southwest due
to dry seasonal climatology and a dry November outlook. In the
East, further improvements are likely across the mid-Atlantic
and eastern Corn Belt as the remnants of Sandy stall over the
region with additional storminess in the week 2 period, while
increasing short term dryness in the interior Southeast make
significant improvements less likely despite a tilt towards
wetness in the long range outlooks.  Discussion for the Seasonal Drought Outlook  Tools used in the U.S. Drought Outlook (USDO) included the
official CPC temperature and precipitation outlooks for November
2012, the long lead forecast for November 2012 through January
2013, various short- and medium-range forecasts and models such
as the 6-10 day and 8-14 day forecasts, the NAEFS precipitation
outlooks, the soil moisture tools based on the Constructed
Analog on Soil (CAS) moisture, the Climate Forecast System (CFS
version 2), the 384-hour total precipitation forecasts from
several runs of the GFS, the four-month Palmer drought
termination and amelioration probabilities, climatology, and
initial conditions. Some consideration was also given to the El
Niño precipitation anomalies for November through January due to
the possibility of a weak El Niño event, but not much.  Heavy rainfall, high elevation snowfall, and below normal
temperatures persisted across the Pacific Northwest and northern
Rockies during the previous two weeks. Although much of the
precipitation fell outside of existing drought areas, there were
reductions of drought and abnormal dryness in some locations.
Additional precipitation is expected during the upcoming five
day period, followed by a pattern change with drier conditions
overspreading the region. The updated CPC November outlook
indicates enhanced probabilities of below median precipitation
for western  Oregon , contrasting with enhanced odds of wetness
for the front range of the northern Rockies. While the CPC
seasonal outlook issued on 18 October maintained abnormal
dryness for the Northwest based on a near consensus of model
data, more recent runs of the CFS version 2 have suggested
reduced probabilities of significant dry anomalies, with even a
flip to wet anomalies during December. Based on the wetness
extant at the start of the outlook period and the reduced
probabilities of dry precipitation anomalies during the
November-January period, it is unlikely that significant drought
development will occur during the climatologically wet winter
months. Therefore, the development area across the Northwest
included in the initial outlook has been removed in this update.
For existing drought areas, persistence is maintained in
deference to the overall dry seasonal outlooks, except across
the northern Rockies, where the November outlook tilts the odds
towards above median precipitation. Forecast confidence for the
Northwest is moderate.  Widespread rain and mountain snows fell across northern
 California , contrasting with drier, warm conditions in the
remainder of the Southwest. Continued precipitation is expected
for northern California during the upcoming five days, with dry
conditions developing along the coast during the week 2 period.
The November-January period is climatologically wet for much of
California, and an average wet season has a high probability of
ameliorating the current drought conditions, particularly across
central and southern California. The CPC update November
outlook, however, places enhanced probabilities of abnormal
dryness throughout California and the desert Southwest, and
while the CPC seasonal outlook maintains equal chances, recent
guidance such as the CFS version 2 predict a moderate to robust
dry precipitation anomaly for the three month period. Based on
the dry trending guidance, coupled with diminishing chances of a
substantive El Niño event, drought reduction during the rainy
season becomes less likely. Therefore, some improvement is
forecast for central California, with persistence across the
remainder of the Southwest. Forecast confidence for the
Southwest is moderate.  Dry weather dominated much of the Plains during the previous two
weeks, with a winter storm in the Midwest generating strong
winds and dust storms. The only exception was across the eastern
Dakotas, where widespread precipitation eased drought conditions
along the Red River Valley. The November-January period is
climatologically dry along the Plains, which reduces the impact
of precipitation anomalies. A similar pattern is expected over
the next two weeks, with wet conditions across the Dakotas
contrasting with drier weather for the remainder of the Plains.
A drier signal for the upper Midwest is suggested by the CPC
seasonal outlook, but November precipitation would allow soils
and streams to recharge ahead of the winter freeze. Therefore,
some improvement is expected across the northern Plains, with
further improvements likely for central North Dakota through
western Minnesota. In contrast, drought persistence is expected
for the remainder of the Plains states, particularly across the
southern High Plains, where November probabilities of abnormal
dryness are the greatest. Forecast confidence for the Plains is
moderate to high.  Scattered showers fell across central and eastern  Texas , further
eroding drought in areas that had received previous rainfall.
Additional light to moderate rainfall is expected across far
southern and eastern Texas, which is mostly outside of the
existing drought areas. Beyond the five day period, abnormal
dryness becomes more likely for western and northern Texas.
Therefore, drought persistence is expected for most of Texas
during the upcoming three month period. Some improvement is
limited to far southern and northeastern Texas, where additional
short term rainfall is most likely. Forecast confidence for
Texas is moderate to high.  Above average rainfall fell across the northern and central
 Mississippi  Valley, promoting drought reduction north of
 Arkansas . Additional light to moderate rainfall is forecast
during the upcoming five day period, and above normal rainfall
is more likely during the week 2 period as far south as the
Ohio-Mississippi River confluence. With the growing season over,
this additional rainfall will help to efficiently recharge soil
moisture ahead of the winter season. The CPC seasonal outlook
maintains enhanced chances of below median precipitation for
 Iowa  and western  Missouri . Therefore, some improvement is
expected across  Wisconsin ,  Illinois , and parts of Missouri,
while drought persistence is more likely west of the
Mississippi. Heavier rainfall amounts typically fall across
Arkansas and  Tennessee  during the winter months, so given mostly
weak climate signals during the entire period, some improvement
is forecast. Forecast confidence for the Mississippi River
Valley is moderate.  Areas of deep, long term drought continue to plague eastern
 Alabama , central  Georgia , and southwestern  South Carolina . Dry,
warm weather during the previous two weeks exacerbated the
drought conditions, causing some southward expansion. A storm
system expected to bring short term rainfall to the western  Gulf
coast  northwestward into Tennessee will largely miss the
Southeastern core drought region, and abnormal dryness is
expected to persist into the week 2 period. Continued short term
drought expansion and intensification is therefore likely.
Beyond the short range, monthly and seasonal guidance provide
little signal across the existing drought regions. The CPC
seasonal outlook tilts the odds towards wet conditions for the
Gulf Coast, which may bring some relief to the southern portions
of the drought areas, but this relief may only serve to offset
the current expansion of the drought. Therefore, only modest
improvement, if any, is expected for the Southeast. Forecast
confidence for the Southeast is low.  An extratropical transitioning  Hurricane Sandy  made landfall
along the mid-Atlantic coastline, bringing devastating storm
surge, strong winds, and widespread rainfall to the region.
Areas of drought along the Delmarva and the Northeast were wiped
out over a period of three days, while significant improvements
were made to lingering drought regions in the Ohio Valley. As
the remnants of Sandy continue to drift across the northeastern
quadrant of the nation, further drought reduction is expected.
During the week 2 period, a new storm system is forecast to
develop across the Midwest and traverse the Ohio Valley and
Northeast. Based on this short term wetness, continued drought
improvement is expected for the small remaining drought areas of
the mid-Atlantic and Ohio Valley. Forecast confidence for the
mid-Atlantic and Ohio Valley is moderate to high.  Previous outlooks for Hawaii depicted drought persistence and
expansion based on the expectation of a weak to moderate winter
El Niño, and a near consensus for dry seasonal precipitation
anomalies across Hawaii among the long range models comprising
the National Multi-Model Ensemble. El Niño conditions have
failed to materialize, however, and current outlooks predict a
borderline or even ENSO neutral winter season. Recent runs of
the CFS version 2 have also backed off on the dry signal, and
now maintain little to no seasonal precipitation anomalies.
Therefore, with the Hawaiian rainy season approaching, the
chances for drought reduction have improved. Some of these
drought regions have been present for several years, however,
illustrating a difficulty in completely eradicating extant
drought from Hawaii in the absence of a high impact event,
particularly across the eastern islands. Therefore, some
improvement is forecast for the western islands of Hawaii, where
the winter rains have the highest probability of ameliorating
the drought. Persistence is maintained for the western islands
for the time being, but this may need to be revisited in the
next outlook. Forecast confidence for Hawaii is moderate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  