-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Oct. 26 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-11-01T15:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-oct-26-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged about 14.9 million
barrels per day during the week ending October 26, 48 thousand
barrels per day above the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 87.7 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production increased last week, averaging 9.2 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased last week,
averaging 4.5 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged over 7.9 million barrels per day
last week, down by 901 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged over 8.3 million barrels per day, 506 thousand barrels
per day below the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 616 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 32 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 2.0 million barrels
from the previous week. At 373.1 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories increased by
0.9 million barrels last week and are in the lower half of the
average range. Both finished gasoline inventories, and blending
components inventories increased last week. Distillate fuel
inventories decreased by 0.1 million barrels last week and are
below the lower limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories decreased by 0.5 million
barrels last week, but remained above the upper limit of the
average range. Total commercial petroleum inventories decreased
by 0.1 million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged over 18.9 million barrels per day, up by 1.5 percent
from the same period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor
gasoline product supplied has averaged about 8.7 million barrels
per day, up by 0.1 percent from the same period last year.
Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged 3.7 million
barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by 12.5 percent
from the same period last year. Jet fuel product supplied is 3.2
percent higher over the last four weeks compared to the same
four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  