-- Mugabe Said to Ask Military to Refrain From Violence
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2012-11-01T11:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/mugabe-said-to-ask-military-to-refrain-from-violence.html
Zimbabwe ’s President  Robert Mugabe 
will this month meet with leaders of the country’s military to
ask them to refrain from the political violence that poll
observers said helped him win four elections since 2000, two
people with knowledge of the situation said.  Mugabe, 88, is under pressure from leaders of the 15-nation
 Southern African Development Community  to allow an election he
has called for March to proceed without violence because they
want an end to the crisis that has disrupted the economy of the
country and its neighbors for the last 12 years.  The two people, one a senior member of the Movement for
Democratic Change which opposes Mugabe’s party, and the other a
member of the politburo of the president’s Zimbabwe African
National Union-Patriotic Front, declined to be identified
because of the sensitive of negotiations between the parties.  The military, accused by the MDC and groups including
Zimbabwe Lawyers for  Human Rights , of intimidating voters in
previous elections, pose a threat to a peaceful vote as leaders
including Constantine Chiwenga, commander in chief of the
military, have repeatedly threatened not to accept a national
leader who didn’t take part in the country’s liberation war that
ended in 1980. MDC leader and Zimbabwe’s prime minister,  Morgan Tsvangirai , 60, didn’t take part in the armed struggle against
white rule.  While Mugabe, who has ruled the country since formal
independence from the U.K. in 1980, won disputed elections in
200o, 2002 and 2005 his party lost its majority in parliament in
2008 and a second-round presidential vote was boycotted by
Tsvangirai because he said the army and Zanu-PF militia were
killing and intimidating his supporters. SADC forced Mugabe and
the MDC to share power in an agreement that took effect in
February the next year.  George Charamba , a spokesman for Mugabe, declined to
comment when called by Bloomberg while  Rugare Gumbo , a spokesman
for Zanu-PF, didn’t answer calls made to his mobile phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net . 