-- Ukraine Devaluation Angst Mounts as Yanukovych Secures Win
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-11-02T10:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/ukraine-devaluation-angst-mounts-after-yanukovych-claims-victory.html
Banks in Ukraine’s capital didn’t
have enough dollars to convert Oleksandra Ratushnyak’s hryvnia
savings this week so she spent the rest to offload a currency
investors bet will slide after the ruling party won re-election.  “Nobody trusts the hryvnia,” Ratushnyak, a 29-year-old
lawyer, said Oct. 29 in Kiev after buying $1,750 from three
banks and being told four more had run out. “The exchange rate
has been manipulated and no one knows how much it’s worth.”  President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s victory in Oct. 28
parliamentary elections divided investors and citizens in a
nation where payments from bank loans to apartment rents are
often made in dollars. While international bonds advanced on
optimism devaluation will improve the balance of payments as the
economy skids toward recession, citizens may be concerned about
the value of their savings.  Dollar purchases by Ukrainians anticipating a weaker
currency after the ballot were the highest in a year in
September, official data showed, while the local units of
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and OTP Bank Nyrt. reported increased demand for
the greenback. The central bank has dipped into its reserves to
defend the hryvnia, contributing to an almost $9 billion drop in
the stash to $29.2 billion since August 2011.  Ukrainians are again becoming concerned about their
currency, four years after the hryvnia lost more than half of
its value following the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Inc .’s in
2008. Economic output plummeted 7.8 percent and consumer prices
surged 22.3 percent that year. The contraction continued at a
6.7 percent pace in 2009.  ‘Political Achievement’  The currency, which has lost 2.2 percent this year, will
retreat to 9.4 per dollar in six months’ time and 10.42 in a
year, according to non-deliverable forwards, which in June
predicted declines to 9.04 and 10.22. It was down 0.2 percent at
8.1964 at 12:19 p.m. in Kiev, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “Hryvnia stability is perceived as a political achievement
on the part of the Ukrainian electorate,”  Alexander Morozov , a
Moscow-based economist at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , wrote Oct. 22 in a
note. After the election, “Ukrainian authorities’ hands may be
untied and they may permit the hryvnia to devalue.”  After expanding 5.2 percent last year, Ukraine’s economy
contracted 1.2 percent in the third quarter from previous three
months as  Europe ’s debt crisis damped demand for steel, the
country’s main export earner.  Erste Group Bank (EBS)  AG and HSBC
predict a second-half recession.  Current Account  The  current-account deficit  almost doubled through August
to $8.6 billion as Russian natural gas prices rose. The gap will
widen to 9 percent of gross domestic product in 2012, according
to Morozov, who said a hryvnia rate of 11 per dollar is needed
by end-2013 to narrow the shortfall to 5 percent.  Investors and traders have been betting central bank
support for the hryvnia will dwindle, helping stabilize the
balance of payments, restore competitiveness and boost exports.  The government may also unfreeze a $15.4 billion loan from
the  International Monetary Fund , halted last year after Ukraine
refused to raise household energy tariffs, Ronald Schneider, who
helps manage 700 million euros ($910 million) in emerging-market
debt for Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage GmbH in Vienna, said Oct. 22
by phone.  The Washington-based lender has urged a more flexible
 exchange rate  for the hryvnia.  Bond Rally  Ukraine’s dollar Eurobond due 2017 climbed today, cutting
the yield to 6.72 percent, the lowest level since it was sold in
July. Credit-default swaps, which narrowed for four sessions,
dropped 101 basis points last month to 605, reflecting an
improved perception of risk.  Citizens stepped up dollar purchases as devaluation
speculation intensified in a country where about half of
outstanding retail loans are denominated in foreign currencies.
They bought $2.9 billion in September, double February’s amount,
central bank data showed.  “Because of increasing demand for foreign currency, a
temporary limit of $1,000 per client per day has been set,” the
local unit of Budapest-based OTP’s press office said Oct. 30 in
an e-mailed statement.  Heightened demand has led to a “difficult but manageable”
situation in Ukraine, according to Sergiy Manokha, director of
treasury and institutional business at UniCredit’s local unit.  “The main positive thing is that they’re not removing
deposits as they were in 2008,” he said Oct. 30 by phone.  Fiscal Costs  The authorities may only opt for a devaluation to 8.3 per
dollar by year-end and 9 by end-2013, according to Alexander Valchyshen, head of research at Investment Capital Ukraine, who
said the drop would increase repayment costs on foreign bonds,
push public debt to 35 percent of GDP from 28 percent and widen
the  budget deficit  by weighing on economic growth.  “The fiscal costs of the devaluation will be sizable,” he
said Oct. 30 by phone from Kiev. “The deterioration in the
fiscal position is the main reason the authorities will try to
resist market forces.”  Ukraine’s central bank and government have “all
resources” to keep the hryvnia stable after the elections,
Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said Oct. 10.  Policy makers are also seeking to deter people from buying
foreign currencies as a hedge against devaluation risks, central
bank Governor Serhiy Arbuzov said last month.  Ukrainians aren’t convinced the hryvnia can hold its ground
and neither are investors.  “The elections are behind us and forwards show the market
expects some devaluation,” said Steffen Gruschka, portfolio
manager at fund SG Alpha, which manages $10 million of Ukrainian
equities. “The question is now how it will happen and when.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  