-- Munis, Swap-Trading, Barclays, UBS Trader: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-11-01T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/munis-swap-trading-barclays-ubs-trader-compliance.html
U.S. state- and local-government bond
underwriters may have to disclose more information about
donations to election campaigns backing new debt sales, under a
proposal by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.  The MSRB, which writes regulations for the $3.7 trillion
market, will ask the Securities and Exchange Commission to
approve its plan which could help reveal whether securities
deals are being steered to contributors.  The new regulations address concerns that state and local
government officials are awarding underwriting businesses in
return for contributions to ballot campaigns, the board said
yesterday. That could cost taxpayers if banks recoup the
donations through higher fees.  “The award of municipal securities underwriting business
tied to dealer contributions to campaigns that secure voter
approval for taxpayer-funded public projects can give rise to
real or perceived conflicts or related concerns that can
adversely affect the integrity of the municipal market,” the
board said in a statement yesterday.  While underwriters are barred from giving to local
government officials who award them work, there is no such ban
on donating to campaigns supporting new bond issues, such as
those proposed by local school boards.  Banks are required to report contributions to campaigns.
The board has said, however, that the information isn’t detailed
enough to draw conclusions about how large a role they play in
determining which underwriter is later hired.  The Alexandria, Virginia-based regulator is proposing that
underwriters also disclose the date of the contributions, which
bonds it underwrote following such donations, and the name of
the state or local government associated with bond campaigns.  Compliance Policy  Swap-Trading Rules Won’t Be Finished by November, O’Malia Says  Swap-trading rules governing firms such as  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
and  ICAP Plc (IAP)  won’t be completed by mid-November at the main U.S.
derivatives regulator, according to Commodity Futures Trading
Commissioner  Scott O’Malia .  The CFTC plans to first finish separate rules to ensure
interest-rate and credit swaps are backed by clearinghouses that
collect collateral from buyers and sellers, O’Malia said
yesterday at a Futures Industry Association conference in
Chicago.  “I don’t think we are going to be able to get through
this” by the CFTC meeting set for Nov. 15, because “there is a
lot to be negotiated,” he said. “That’s way too soon.”  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are
required by the Dodd-Frank Act to increase transparency in the
swaps market after unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis. The law calls for measures requiring trades to be
executed on exchanges or so-called swap-execution facilities.  Firms that have said they want to create swap execution
facilities include inter-dealer brokers, Phoenix Partners Group
LP, Javelin Capital Markets LLC, Tradeweb LLC and Bloomberg LP,
the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  The CFTC has other rulemakings to complete in November and
December, O’Malia said, and swap-dealers are expected to
register by the end of the year.  Banks Violating Card, Mortgage Rules, Consumer Bureau Reports  U.S. banks violated credit-card rules by failing to get co-
signers’ consent before boosting younger borrowers’ credit
limits, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said in
findings released yesterday.  The bureau, in issuing its  first supervisory report , also
found that some mortgage lenders failed to comply with the Truth
in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act,
which require disclosures to consumers about the terms of their
loans. The agency also said some companies failed to adequately
train employees in complying with the Fair Credit Reporting Act,
which governs how information is handled.  Congress created the consumer bureau as part of the Dodd-
Frank Act of 2010 in response to complaints that financial firms
took unfair advantage of borrowers before credit markets
collapsed in 2008. The law gives the agency supervisory power
over banks with assets above $10 billion for compliance with
federal laws on consumer protection in finance.  The supervisory process, in which examiners directly
scrutinize books and practices, can result in remedial action
short of formal enforcement actions that result in fines. The
report released yesterday, doesn’t name banks nor specify what
companies had to do to comply with consumer-protection laws.  Compliance Action  Barclays Says It Will Fight FERC Penalty Over Energy Trading  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said it will contest the U.S. Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission’s accusation that the company manipulated
electricity trading in the western U.S. from late 2006 to 2008.  “Barclays intends to vigorously defend this matter,” the
London-based bank said yesterday in a statement.  The regulatory agency notified Barclays on Oct. 25 that it
had approved a show-cause order, according to the company
statement. The agency’s staff in a notice issued April 5 said
four Barclays energy traders coordinated to manipulate day-ahead
electricity markets at various times from November 2006 through
December 2008.  FERC officials declined to comment on the investigation,
Mary O’Driscoll, a FERC spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-
mail.  The agency this year has increased its policing of energy
markets, and on Sept. 20 it ordered a unit of  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  to show that it didn’t violate agency rules governing energy
trading.  Since January 2011, the FERC has announced more than 10
probes of alleged manipulation in electricity and natural-gas
markets. The agency this year reached a record $245 million
settlement with Constellation Energy Group Inc.  Separately, Barclays said the  U.S. Department of Justice 
and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission are probing
whether the group’s relationships with third parties who assist
the bank to win or retain business are compliant with the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Barclays is investigating and is co-operating with the U.S.
authorities, the company said yesterday in a statement.  In the Courts  Adoboli Says UBS Didn’t Question Trades Until He Lost Money  Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS (UBSN)  AG trader on trial over a
$2.3 billion loss, said that no one at the bank questioned the
exchange-traded funds desk’s trading mechanisms until they were
losing money.  Adoboli, 32, admitted lying to at least eight people at the
bank shortly before he confessed to causing the losses in
September of last year. He lied because he wanted to “buy
time” to give him the chance to recoup the losses.  “It is a long list of people who only asked questions
after our trading methodologies were loss-making,” Adoboli told
a London court on his fourth day of testimony. “When that
trading was profitable, no one asked questions.”  The former trader is charged with falsifying records on ETF
transactions and other documents as early as October 2008.
Adoboli has pleaded not guilty to two counts of fraud and four
counts of false accounting.  He testified yesterday his intentions were never dishonest
because senior management at UBS’s investment bank were telling
traders to “push the boundaries” to generate more profits.  He also said yesterday that he hasn’t been able to find any
current or former UBS employees to testify on his behalf because
they fear the bank.  For more, click here.  London Whale’s Boss Martin-Artajo Sued by JPMorgan in U.K.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. sued the executive responsible for
supervising Bruno Iksil, the trader nicknamed the London Whale
for market-moving wagers at the division responsible for a $6.2
billion trading loss.  Javier Martin-Artajo, Iksil’s boss in the chief investment
office, is a defendant in a London lawsuit filed Oct. 22 by the
bank and made public yesterday. The court filings didn’t reveal
any details of the complaint. Both men have left the bank.  JPMorgan disclosed trading losses in May after what Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said were “egregious” failures
to manage flawed positions on synthetic credit securities. The
bank is still recovering from those bets, the losses on which
had risen to $6.2 billion through the first nine months of 2012
and may increase, the bank has said.  Martin-Artajo hasn’t been served with the lawsuit and
hasn’t seen the bank’s evidence against him, according to his
lawyer Greg Campbell. His client is “deeply disappointed by the
bank’s unjustified assertion that he may have attempted to
conceal the losses,” and is confident he’ll be cleared of any
wrongdoing, Campbell said in an e-mail.  JPMorgan ousted managers responsible for the group’s loss
and said it would claw back their pay after an internal probe
found traders may have intentionally tried to hide the problem.
The company didn’t name the managers. Iksil, Martin-Artajo and
former Europe CIO head Achilles Macris were responsible for
overseeing the trades.  Kate Haywood , a spokeswoman for the New York-based bank,
declined to comment on the litigation by e-mail.  The case is JPMorgan Chase & Co. v. Martin-Artajo,
HQ12X04391,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division .  Fannie, Freddie Sued in South Florida Over Unpaid Transfer Taxes  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac , the home mortgage-finance
companies now under government control, were accused by Miami-
Dade County,  Florida , of failing to pay transfer taxes when they
took ownership and sold thousands of foreclosed properties.  Harvey Ruvin, clerk of the courts for Miami-Dade County,
sued the mortgage finance companies in federal court in Miami
Oct. 29 alleging  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac improperly claimed
they’re exempt from paying the tax, which amounts to 60 cents
per $100 of the value of single-family residences.  “Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are parties to thousands of
real estate transactions, particularly here in South Florida,
and they are shirking their responsibility to pay their fair
share of transfer taxes,” Adam M. Schachter, a lawyer for the
county, said in an e-mailed statement.  The Miami-Dade lawsuit is the latest jurisdiction to sue
the companies seeking to recoup transfer taxes. Bridgeport,
Connecticut, and Montgomery County, Ohio, have similar lawsuits
pending in federal courts. Hernando County, Florida, sued the
companies in federal court in Tampa in June.  Miami-Dade claims that tax exemptions for federal agencies
don’t apply to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac because, while
federally chartered, “they are private corporations and not
government entities,” according to the lawsuit.  Brad German , a spokesman for Freddie Mac, and  Andrew
Wilson , a spokesman for Fannie Mae, didn’t respond to e-mail
messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Ruvin v. Federal National Mortgage Association,
12-cv-23917, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  AMR’s American Airlines Settles Litigation With Sabre  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  settled litigation with Sabre
Holdings Inc., the flight data and reservation business that
American spun off in 2000 and later accused of trying to crush
competition from its former parent.  The companies renewed their current distribution agreement
for multiple years, according to a jointly issued statement
yesterday. The airline will also receive an unspecified sum of
money from Sabre.  The settlement comes one week into the Fort Worth, Texas,
state court jury trial of a lawsuit in which American claimed
Sabre units doubled fees for displaying the airline’s data on
its system, suppressed that data and organized a boycott to
punish the carrier for trying to develop a new data and
reservation system.  The settlement requires approval from the judge overseeing
that case, according to yesterday’s statement.  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. Sabre Inc., 067-
249214-10, Tarrant County, Texas, District Court for the 67th
Judicial District.  Green Mountain Investors Claim in Suit Keurig Demand Inflated  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  investors alleged in a
consolidated securities lawsuit that the maker of Keurig coffee
brewers misled them about the demand for Keurig and K-Cup
products.  “Unbeknownst to investors, and contrary to defendants’
statements that they were barely able to ship orders as they
came in,  Green Mountain  Coffee Roaster’s warehouses were
overflowing with unused and expiring coffee products that were
not being sold to consumers,” according to the complaint filed
Oct. 29 in federal court in Burlington, Vermont.  A group of pension funds, including the Louisiana Municipal
Police Employees’ Retirement System, accuse the Waterbury,
Vermont-based company of violating U.S. securities law. They
seek to represent all investors who bought Green Mountain shares
from Feb. 2, 2011, to Nov. 9, 2011, and request unspecified
damages.  Green Mountain  shares  plunged 34 percent Nov. 9, 2011,
erasing $3.1 billion in market value, after fourth-quarter  sales 
fell short of analyst’s estimates. The Louisiana retirement fund
sued the same month, accusing the company of overstating revenue
“based on falsified sales orders” and using a fulfillment
vendor to store overproduced, unsold products.  Katie Gilroy, a company spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call to her office for comment on the consolidated
complaint after regular business hours Oct. 30.  Green Mountain is the subject of a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission inquiry, disclosed in September 2010. Two
months later, the company restated earnings for years dating
back to 2007 because of issues with K-Cup coffee-pod revenue and
royalties, according to a statement.  The company is also a defendant in a consolidated
shareholders lawsuit in Vermont federal court by investors who
bought the stock from July 28, 2010, to Sept. 28, 2010, the day
the company announced the SEC inquiry. A third series of
shareholder suits was filed in May, after Green Mountain said
its second-quarter result fell short of its previous guidance.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees’
Retirement System v. Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, 11-00289,
U.S. District Court, District of Vermont (Burlington.)  Manhattan Court’s Storm Closing Pushes Back Insider Trial  The U.S. District Court in lower  Manhattan , the primary
venue for major financial litigation with jurisdiction over the
 New York  Stock Exchange and bank headquarters, will be closed
for the week as a result of the superstorm that pummeled the
region.  The closing has delayed jury selection for the insider-
trading trial of  Todd Newman , a former Diamondback Capital
Management LLC portfolio manager, and Level Global Investors LP
co-founder Anthony Chiasson, who were to go on trial Oct. 29.  Prosecutors alleged Chiasson, Newman and a group of
analysts, fund managers and insiders at technology companies
swapped illegal tips on Dell Inc. and Nvidia Corp., earning more
than $67 million. The storm interrupted the trial of Bruce Bent,
co-founder of the Reserve Funds, in a suit by the Securities and
Exchange Commission over the failure of the money market fund in
the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse.  The New York court near Foley Square is operating on
emergency generator power, Edward Friedland, the district
executive of the U.S. Southern District of New York, said
yesterday in an e-mail. The district’s satellite courts in White
Plains and Middletown, north of  New York City , are open, he
said.  The cases are U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan); SEC v. Reserve
Management Co., 09-cv-04346, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 