-- Universal Music, Eminem Producers Settle Royalties Suit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-11-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/universal-music-eminem-producers-settle-royalties-suit.html
Universal Music  Group agreed to
settle a lawsuit brought by the Detroit producers who helped
start rapper Eminem’s career over royalties from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iTunes and mobile-phone ringtones.  Lawyers for the  Vivendi SA (VIV)  unit and the producers filed a
request to dismiss the case in federal court in  Los Angeles  on
Oct. 29, saying “this action has been resolved to the
satisfaction of all parties.” Terms of the settlement weren’t
disclosed.  In 2009, a jury rejected arguments by FBT Productions LLC
that Eminem is entitled to half the net receipts the record
company gets for the downloads, rather than his standard
royalties from record sales. The producers, who first signed
Eminem in 1995, get 40 percent of the royalties.  A federal appeals court in 2010 reversed the verdict,
saying the trial judge had incorrectly denied a request by the
producers for a pretrial ruling that the “masters license”
agreement for the recordings clearly applied to downloads and
not the records-sold provision.  Peter Lofrumento , a spokesman for Universal Music, and
Richard Busch, a lawyer for the producers, confirmed the
settlement without providing additional comment.  Eminem, whose real name is Marshall B. Mathers III, wasn’t
a party in the case.  FBT Productions, owned by brothers Jeff and Mark Bass,
signed Eminem to an exclusive recording deal in 1995. In 1998,
they made a deal with rapper Dr. Dre’s Aftermath Records, a unit
of Universal Music, which released Eminem’s breakthrough album,
“The Slim Shady LP.”  The case is FBT Productions v. Aftermath Records, 07-
cv-3314, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  