-- Van Gogh’s Peasant, Munch’s ‘Scream’ Face Off in New York
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-11-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/van-gogh-s-peasant-munch-s-scream-face-off-in-new-york.html
Go visit  Edvard Munch ’s “The Scream”
(1895) and Vincent van Gogh’s “Portrait of a Peasant (Patience
Escalier)” (1888) and see the difference between art as fast
food and art as an infinitely rewarding feast.  The two masterpieces are some 20 blocks apart.  Van Gogh’s “Peasant,” on loan from the  Norton Simon Museum 
in  Pasadena ,  California , is at the Frick Collection through Jan.
20, 2013.  Munch’s “The Scream” recently made headlines -- and raised
eyebrows -- when the pastel sold at Sotheby’s to a private
collector for a record-breaking $120 million. Also on loan, it
will spend six months at the Museum of  Modern Art , alongside a
dozen works by Munch from MoMA’s permanent collection.  Heavily inspired by  van Gogh , Munch’s swirling,
autobiographical “The Scream” depicts the artist as a ghoulish,
wobbly character standing on a bridge, mouth agape, covering his
ears.  Recounting the experience, Munch wrote: “I stood still,
dead tired -- over the blue-black fjord and city hung blood and
tongues of fire. My friends walked on -- I stayed behind --
trembling with fright -- I felt the great scream in nature.”  I’ve always felt that Munch’s melancholic series is popular
primarily because it was the first to reduce painting, if not
the Existential plight of Modern man, to the impact of a poster.  Having seen all related versions of “The Scream,” I’d place
this pastel as coming in qualitatively second-to-last. If you’ve
never seen an original “Scream,” go to MoMA and navigate the
throng and their relentless, blinding flashbulbs.  Camargue Cowboy  Otherwise, save your energy for van Gogh. In a letter to
his brother Theo, the artist explained his metaphoric approach
to painting the portrait of the “Peasant” -- a former Camargue
cowboy turned farmer.  “I think of the man I have to paint, terrible in the
furnace of the full adours of harvest, at the heart of the
south. Hence the orange shades like storm flashes, vivid as red
hot iron, and hence the luminous tones of old gold in the
shadows.”  Unlike Munch’s shot of adrenaline, van Gogh’s “Peasant” is
explored, mysteriously transformed -- as frontal and forceful as
a Byzantine Madonna.  This “Peasant” is embedded in a whirling flat field of
blue, with a spinning yellow straw hat that radiates like a
halo.  He is both portrait and landscape. With broad shoulders he
plows forward, digging in, shifting left, then right. His face,
tilled like a field, is ablaze with flickering brushstrokes. And
his emerald-green cloak, in places diaphanous, opens like sky,
suddenly streaked with hard rain.  If you look closely, you’ll see the strokes of van Gogh’s
fingers running through the thick, wet paint. It is as if the
artist had formed his “Peasant” directly from the soil.  “Van Gogh’s ‘Portrait of a Peasant (Patience Escalier)’”
runs through Jan. 20 at the Frick Collection, 1 E. 70th
St. Information: +1-212-288-0700;  http://beta.frick.org .  “Edvard Munch: ‘The Scream’” runs through Apr. 29 at the
 Museum of Modern Art , 11 W. 53rd St. Information: +1-212-708-
9400;  http://www.moma.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and  Craig Seligman  on
 books .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in  New York , at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 