-- Vertex Joins Glaxo, J&J in Testing Hepatitis C Combos
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-11-01T21:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/vertex-joins-glaxo-j-j-in-testing-hepatitis-c-combos.html
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) , maker of
the hepatitis C drug Incivek, said it agreed to test one of its
experimental therapies for the disease with other drugs from
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   The drug, VX-135, will be tested with J&J’s simeprevir and
Glaxo’s GSK2336805 in separate 12-week trials to determine
whether the combinations help rid patients of the virus,
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Vertex said in two statements
today. The companies will split development costs with Vertex.  Vertex Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Leiden said in an
interview last month that the company had been drawing
collaborator interest for VX-135, one of the last viable
experimental therapies in a class called nucleotides thought to
be an important part of combination therapy to treat hepatitis
C. The disease affects an estimated 170 million people
worldwide, and drugmakers have been rushing to bring to market
next-generation therapies that don’t require injections.  “We view this as a best case path forward for Vertex, as
it allows the company to explore VX-135 with two different
classes, partnered with major pharmaceutical companies who are
fairly dependent on the success of these respective combinations
to remain competitive in the all-oral hepatitis-C virus race,”
 Brian Abrahams , an analyst with Wells Fargo Securities, wrote in
a research note today.  The drug combinations will be tested in the second of three
stages of clinical trials generally required for regulatory
approval. J&J’s drug, partnered with Sweden’s  Medivir AB (MVIRB) , is in
a class of therapies called protease inhibitors, which includes
Incivek, also known as telaprevir. Glaxo’s drug is in a class
called NS5A inhibitors.  Combination Therapy  Combinations of different kinds of drugs are thought to be
the most effective way to combat hepatitis C because they strike
at the various ways the virus infects the body.  Gilead Sciences
Inc. (GILD) ,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  are among
other drugmakers testing therapies for the disease.  Vertex rose 4.6 percent to $50.48 at the close in  New York ,
extending its increase for the year to 52 percent. The shares of
New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J, which has a partnership
with Vertex already on Incivek, gained 1 percent to $71.50.
Glaxo rose less than 1 percent to 1,387.50 pence in London.  Vertex also plans to test VX-135 in combination with its
own therapies, Incivek and the experimental medicine VX-222,
Leiden said last month. The company licensed VX-135 from Alios
BioPharma Inc. along with another nucleotide, ALS-2158. Vertex
discontinued development of the second compound in September for
lack of efficacy.  “This is a good move for Vertex and should help quell
concerns from some investors that the company wanted to
prioritize Incivek combo regimens,”  Mark Schoenebaum , an
analyst with ISI Group in New York, wrote in a note to clients
today. “Recall, however, that there is very little data
available for Vertex’s nuc at this point - thus development risk
remains high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  