-- Visa, MasterCard Fees Deal Opposed by 1,200 Businesses
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-11-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/visa-mastercard-deal-on-fees-opposed-by-1-200-busines.html
Retailer groups opposed to  Visa Inc. (V) 
and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ’s $7.25 billion settlement of a lawsuit over
merchant credit-card fees said they have garnered support from
about 1,200 businesses covered by the deal.  Trade associations including the National Association of
Convenience Stores, the National Community Pharmacists
Association and the National Restaurant Association urged U.S.
District Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn, New York, not to grant
initial approval to the settlement, according to objection
papers the parties are preparing to submit.  The settlement, estimated to cost the card companies and
major banks as much as $7.25 billion, would cover about 7
million retailers nationwide. In an order filed Oct. 24, Gleeson
said he will probably approve the deal. That could end about
seven years of litigation over an alleged conspiracy by the card
companies and banks to fix the so-called interchange fees that
retailers are charged when customers pay with cards.  In a paper the opposition intends to submit, a lawyer for
some of the objecting groups, Jeffrey Shinder, said the
settlement “will neither introduce transparency nor give
merchants the ability to inject competition in a market that has
not functioned competitively for decades.”  1,200 Businesses  Altogether, almost 1,200 businesses and trade associations
are submitting court papers supporting those contentions
including The Neiman Marcus Group Inc.,  Saks Inc. (SKS) , 7-Eleven,
Dollar General, Expedia,  The Gap Inc. (GPS)  and  Limited Brands Inc. (LTD) ,
Shinder said.  “This group represents trillions in retail sales and a
substantial portion of the putative class, and its massive and
diverse breadth is a powerful signal that something is obviously
wrong with this settlement,” Shinder said in the filing.  The objection papers were provided to Bloomberg News by
Shinder and representatives from some of the objecting groups.
Technology difficulties at the federal court from  Hurricane
Sandy  prevented them from filing the papers yesterday. Lawyers
who are seeking to have the settlement approved, K. Craig Wildfang and Patrick Coughlin, confirmed that they have received
the filing. They declined to make an immediate comment.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mary Romano at 
 mromano6@bloomberg.net  