-- Wachtell, Skadden, Kirkland, King: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-11-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/wachtell-skadden-kirkland-king-business-of-law.html
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz
advised  PVH Corp. (PVH) , the owner of the Tommy Hilfiger brand, in its
agreement to buy  Warnaco Group (WRC)  in a $2.9 billion transaction,
creating a company with $8 billion in sales and bringing all
Calvin Klein-branded apparel under one roof. Skadden Arps Slate
Meagher & Flom LLP advised Warnaco. Kirkland & Ellis LLP
represents the Peter J. Solomon Company, financial adviser to
PVH Corp.  Wachtell’s team was led by corporate partners Andrew J. Nussbaum and Gregory E. Ostling. The team also included partners
Michael J. Segal, executive compensation and benefits; Eric M.
Rosof, restructuring and finance; Jodi J. Schwartz, tax; and
Ilene Knable Gotts, antitrust.  Skadden partners Alan Myers and Peter Serating are leading
the team on the deal for Warnaco.  New York-based corporate partners Stephen Fraidin and
William B. Sorabella led the Kirkland team.  New York-based PVH will pay $51.75 in cash and 0.1822 of a
PVH share for each Warnaco share, the companies said in a
statement. The offer is worth $68.43 per Warnaco share, 34
percent higher than the last closing price of $50.88. Warnaco
had licensed the Calvin Klein jeans brand from PVH, which bought
Calvin Klein’s company from the designer in 2003.  PVH Chief Executive Officer Emanuel Chirico said last year
that he would “aggressively” seek deals to turn PVH, which
traces its roots to a shoe company founded in 1876, into the
world’s largest apparel company, while boosting international
sales and profit margins that trail competitors such as  VF Corp. (VFC) 
and  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)  More than half of Warnaco’s 2011 sales
came from outside the U.S.  PVH said the deal will add 35 cents a share to its earnings
in fiscal 2013 if the deal closes as expected in early 2013,
excluding integration and transaction costs. PVH expects the
deal to contribute $100 million in additional annual revenue, or
so-called synergies, offset by $175 million in acquisition
costs, which will be spread over three years.  When the deal closes, Warnaco shareholders will own about
10 percent of the common stock of PVH. Warnaco’s board has
unanimously approved the deal, and its CEO Helen McCluskey will
probably join PVH’s board. Warnaco began as a maker of corsets
more than a century ago and its shares are little changed over
the past two years, lagging behind PVH’s 49 percent gain.  For more, click here.  Skadden, Latham Advise on Disney Purchase of Lucasfilm  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP advised  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS)  in its agreement to buy  George Lucas ’s Lucasfilm Ltd. for
$4.05 billion, pressing Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger ’s
$15 billion bet on creative franchises by adding “Star Wars”
and “Indiana Jones.” Latham & Watkins LLP advises Lucasfilm.  Skadden partners on the deal included  Brian McCarthy  and
Howard Ellin, corporate/mergers and acquisitions; Stuart Levi
and Anthony Dreyer, intellectual property and technology;
Kenneth Betts, tax; Joseph Yaffe, executive compensation and
benefits; John Nannes, antitrust; Frederic Depoortere - European
Union/international competition; and Karen Corman, labor and
employment.  Latham & Watkins’s corporate deal team was led by partners
Christopher “Kit” Kaufman, Tad Freese and Jamie Leigh. Advice
was also provided on intellectual property matters by partner
Anthony Klein; on real estate matters by partner  David Shapiro ;
on tax matters by partner David Raab; on employment law matters
by partner Linda Inscoe; on environmental matters by partner
Karl Karg; and on antitrust matters by partners Joshua Holian
and Susanne Zuehlke in Brussels.  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP represents Goldman, Sachs & Co. in
its capacity as financial adviser to  Walt Disney  in its
acquisition of Lucasfilm Ltd. The S&C Los Angeles-based team is
led by M&A partner Alison Ressler.  Lucas, 68, the sole owner, will get half in cash and the
rest in stock, making him a major investor in the film, theme
park and TV company, according to a statement from Burbank,
California-based Disney. The first of a new trilogy of “ Star
Wars ” films will be released in 2015, Disney said.  The deal furthers Iger’s pursuit of marquee content in an
era marked by technology changes, such as $8-a-month video
streaming and free game downloads, that disrupted Hollywood’s
traditional revenue sources. Iger, who paid a combined $11.2
billion for Pixar and Marvel, said memorable characters will be
valuable no matter what medium they appear in.  “Technology has proved more friend than foe to great
storytelling,” Iger said in an interview. “It allows us to
distribute in ways we never thought would have been
imaginable.”  Disney paid $7 billion for animation studio Pixar in 2006
and bought Marvel Entertainment in 2009 for $4.2 billion, adding
the creators of “Toy Story,” and “The Avengers” to the
company’s library.  The Lucas acquisition brings the “Star Wars” pictures,
which have generated $4.54 billion in worldwide ticket sales --
second only to Warner Bros.’ “ Harry Potter ,” according to Box
Office Mojo. The “Indiana Jones” films have collected $1.95
billion.  For more, click here.  Moves  King & Spalding Adds Deals Lawyer Judy O’Brien in California  Silicon Valley dealmaker Judy O’Brien joined King &
Spalding LLP as a corporate partner in its Redwood Shores office
today.  O’Brien spent 20 years at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati
PC before leaving in 2001 to co-found the venture capital fund
Incubic. She was also general counsel for Obopay, a mobile-
payment company, the firm said. Most recently, O’Brien has
consulted on business and financing strategies for early-stage
enterprises through her consulting firm, Laurel Advisors, the
firm said in a statement.  “We’re thrilled that she chose King & Spalding from the
many firms competing for her talents,” said Timothy T. Scott,
King & Spalding’s managing partner in Silicon Valley. “We
intend to grow our presence in the Bay Area aggressively.”  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
Europe, Middle East and Asia.  News  Manhattan Federal Courthouse Closed for Entire Week by Storm  The U.S. District Court in lower Manhattan, the primary
venue for major financial litigation with jurisdiction over the
New York Stock Exchange and bank headquarters, will be closed
for the week as a result of the super-storm that pummeled the
New York metropolitan area.  Ecuador to Sue Chevron in Argentina to Enforce $19 Billion Award  Ecuadoreans will sue  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  in Argentina seeking to
seize company assets in the country to enforce a $19 billion
damage award in a lawsuit over pollution in the Amazon rain
forest, a lawyer representing the group said.  Pablo Fajardo, the Ecuadorean lawyer who represents the
group, said yesterday at a press conference in Buenos Aires that
a lawsuit will be filed today at the Commercial Court of Justice
in Buenos Aires. The group also plans to file in Colombia,
Enrique Bruchou, an Argentine attorney with Bruchou, Fernandez,
Madero & Lombardi, said at the same press conference.  The Ecuadoreans blame Texaco Inc., which Chevron acquired
in 2001, for destroying the environment in the Lago Agrio
region, damaging life conditions of 30,000 inhabitants. Chevron,
based in San Ramon, California, on Oct. 9 lost a U.S. Supreme
Court bid to block the judgment by an Ecuadorean court. The
highest U.S. court let stand a federal appeals court ruling
against Chevron that the Ecuadoreans can’t be barred from
seeking to collect the award anywhere in the world.  “The Ecuador judgment is a product of bribery, fraud, and
it is illegitimate,” Chevron said yesterday in an e-mailed
response. “The company does not believe that the Ecuador
judgment is enforceable in any court that observes the rule of
law.”  A similar lawsuit was filed by the Ecuadoreans in the
Ontario Superior Court of Justice in Toronto on May 30.  Chevron is the fourth-largest producer of oil in Argentina,
with concessions in the Neuquen Basin in the western part of the
country. Chevron’s assets in Argentina include an information
technology support services center. Chevron signed a memorandum
of understanding on Sept. 14 with YPF SA, Argentina’s biggest
energy company, to analyze a partnership to jointly develop
projects at the shale formation of Vaca Muerta.  Chevron Canada Ltd. will have a hearing on the lawsuit Nov.
28 in the Ontario Superior Court, Alan Lenczner, an attorney for
the Ecuadoreans based in Toronto, said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  Abu Hamza’s Lawyer: I’m Interested in Talking About Plea Deal  Jeremy Schneider, a lawyer appointed by a Manhattan federal
judge to represent alleged al-Qaeda member Abu Hamza, told
Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck that he’s interested in speaking
to prosecutors about a plea deal. He declined to say whether his
client would accept a deal. Hamza is the former imam of London’s
Finsbury Park mosque, where shoe bomber  Richard Reid  and “20th
hijacker” Zacarias Moussaoui once worshiped. Hamza is charged
with trying to set up a terrorist training camp in Oregon, among
other charges.  Several al-Qaeda members tried in U.S. courts have refused
to deal with court-appointed counsel, but so far, Hamza and his
lawyer are communicating “very well,” Schneider told Mazyck.  Title Insurer Group Selects Lawyer Pellegrini as President  Frank Pellegrini, the lawyer who founded Prairie Title
Services Inc. in Illinois, was named president of the title
insurance industry’s trade group.  Pellegrini will serve for the 2012-2013 year, the  American
Land Title Association  said yesterday in a statement.  The group represents more than 4,000 companies according to
the statement. Title insurers use their records and public
documents to verify a seller is a property’s true owner and that
it is free from liens. The companies collect a premium at the
closing of the purchase and pay costs that may arise if someone
disputes the new owner’s right to the property.  Pellegrini has been involved in the industry since the
1970s and joined Chicago Title Insurance Co. in 1978 before
starting a  law firm . He and his wife formed the Prairie agency
in Oak Park, Illinois.  Litigation  Adoboli Says Witnesses Won’t Help Him Because of UBS Machine  Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS (UBSN)  AG trader on trial over a
$2.3 billion loss, said he hasn’t been able to find any current
or former UBS employees to testify on his behalf because they
fear the bank.  “People have been in touch and said we’d like to help you
but we can’t,” Adoboli told a court on his fourth day of
testimony. “Across the industry, there is no one who’s been
willing to stand up to the machine.”  Adoboli, 32, pointed to the area in the London courtroom
next to prosecutors that has been reserved for UBS officials.
Nine lawyers and two public relations officials were present
yesterday on behalf of the bank. Some have passed notes to the
prosecutors during the trial, he said.  “You see the machine that is amassed against me,” Adoboli
said, pointing at them. “All of these people, along with the
police, along with the  Crown Prosecution Service .”  The former trader is charged with falsifying records on
exchange-traded-fund transactions and other documents as early
as October 2008 and keeping a slush fund of profits from
unbooked trades that he used to cover the desk’s costs. Adoboli
has pleaded not guilty to two counts of fraud and four counts of
false accounting.  Prosecutor Sasha Wass told Adoboli yesterday that he is
just like  Jerome Kerviel , the former  Societe Generale  trader
convicted of causing a 4.9 billion-euro ($6.35 billion) trading
loss in 2008. Kerviel and Adoboli worked on the same type of
desk doing proprietary trading, traded the same products and
were both booking fake hedges to hide their risk, she said.  “I experienced the same thing” as Kerviel, Adoboli said.
“Not because I’m a rogue trader, not because I’m a fraudster,
not because I’m a criminal, but because I went in pursuit of the
goals set by the organization and the only way we could reach
those goals was by ignoring” warnings from management such as
the e-mails the bank sent after Kerviel’s loss was discovered.  Adoboli said he followed the case closely and his “deep
belief” is that Societe Generale pushed Kerviel too hard and it
ended in “catastrophe.” He said it’s “impossible” the French
bank wasn’t aware of Kerviel’s trades.  He testified yesterday his intentions were never dishonest
and that senior management at UBS’s investment bank were telling
traders to “push the boundaries” to generate more profits.  Wass said Adoboli treated UBS as his own personal bank,
ignored the rules, and gambled recklessly with the bank’s money.
She said it was “absolutely nonsense” the Swiss lender would
instruct traders to exceed risk limits.  “You played God with the bank,” Wass said. “Your
motivation, Mr. Adoboli, was all about you, your reputation,
your ego, your desire to be a star trader.’  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 