-- Watson CEO Looks Past Actavis Deal to Next Growth Plans
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-11-01T20:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/watson-ceo-looks-past-actavis-deal-to-next-growth-plans.html
Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  will
become the third-biggest generic drug company worldwide as it
changes its name to Actavis and seeks to diversify by using
brand-name products to fuel growth.  The name change was announced yesterday with the close of
Parsippany, New Jersey-based Watson’s 4.25 billion euro ($5.51
billion) purchase of Actavis Group hf. It moves Watson from
fifth biggest to the top maker of copycat drugs by sales after
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , based in Petach Tikva,
 Israel , and Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis AG’s Sandoz unit.  Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bisaro  has put Watson on an
expansionary path during his tenure, announcing plans to push
the company’s generics business worldwide, and to buy and
develop brand-name drug assets that provide higher profit
margins. Investors have rewarded the company; since Bisaro took
over in September 2007, the stock has about  tripled .  “This is the transaction that Watson needed to do to be
significant and truly relevant on a global stage,” Bisaro said
in a telephone interview Oct. 29. “We will be focusing even
more heavily on brand acquisitions and brand-licensing deals to
diversify our business.”  As part of the acquisition, Watson will cut about $300
million in costs over three years and close some of the combined
companies’ 28 manufacturing plants, he said in the interview.  Beat Estimates  Watson announced  third-quarter results  today that beat
analyst estimates. Net income was $172.3 million, up 24 percent
from a year earlier. Earnings excluding some items were $1.35
per share, and $1.30 per share once a 5 cent benefit from a tax
settlement was excluded, the company said in a statement today.
That beats the $1.28 per share average of 21 analyst estimates
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sales were $1.29 billion, about $200 million more than the
average of analyst estimates, according to the statement. It
also raised its adjusted earnings  guidance  for the year by 20
cents a share, to $5.85 to $5.95 per share, up from $5.65 to
$5.85 per share.  Watson  shares  rose 2.1 percent to $87.71 at the close in
New York.  Watson is changing the name to Actavis in 2013 because the
brand is easier to use globally, without the copyright issues
Watson would have had abroad because of similarly named
business. Actavis also had a strong brand in areas the company
is eyeing, including  Russia , which will be the company’s fastest
growing market, according to Siggi Olafsson, president of global
generics. The company’s stock also will start trading under the
Actavis name in 2013.  Overseas Markets  While the deal, Watson’s biggest-ever purchase, gives the
drugmaker operations in more than 60 countries, the business in
 Brazil  and  Mexico  isn’t as large as Bisaro wants.  “To be honest, we’re a little undersized in those
markets,” he said. Acquisition targets in those areas are “a
bit too rich” because of the competition for deals, he said.  The Actavis deal “really makes them a major global
player,” Michael Faerm, an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “Financially, it’s
very beneficial as well. It adds another source of growth to
some of their existing business.”  Bisaro said among the first steps after the deal is
complete will be paying down the company’s  debt . Watson took
$1.8 billion in loans and issued $3.9 billion in debt to fund
the Actavis deal. “We’re also going to have to invest very
seriously in R&D,” Bisaro said.  Biosimilar Growth  Watson also has potential for growth in “biosimilars” --
generic versions of biotechnology drugs such as  Amgen Inc.’s
Epogen (AMGN) , an injectable blood booster. Biosimilar drugs, since
they aren’t exact copies and are difficult to manufacture, can
cost $50 million to $100 million to get approved by regulators
and bring to market, Bisaro said.  “These are significant investments, but we see it as
required as the price to play,” he said. Last year, Amgen and
Watson announced an agreement in which Watson would develop
biosimilars, and spend $400 million to do so.  The brand drugs Watson is looking for will be primarily in
areas where it already has portfolios, such as women’s health
and urology.  “It’s challenging, as we’ve seen with Prochieve,” Bisaro
said, referring to the company’s experimental drug to prevent
pre-term births. “We think we have a great product, we’ve
passed all the tests, and then we get thrown a curve ball with
the FDA.”  An advisory panel to the Food and Drug Administration voted
in January not to recommend approval, and the agency hasn’t
cleared the drug.  ‘Major Players’  “It is challenging, but nevertheless we’re still committed
to the opportunity because we think we can be one of the major
players in these types of therapeutic categories.” That may
also mean finding new delivery mechanisms and dosing amounts for
existing brand-name molecules, for example a birth-control patch
that uses lower doses of hormones.  “It’s a niche that we hope could generate $50 million to
$100 million at its peak,” Bisaro said.  On the generics side, the company’s best opportunities will
be challenges that give it six months of exclusive sales rights
when a drug goes off patent. Watson was on the other side of
that dynamic with Lipitor, Pfizer’s top-selling cholesterol
pill. Pfizer had an agreement by which Watson would manufacture
an “authorized generic” version of the drug to compete with
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.’s version, splitting sales with
Pfizer.  Market Effort  Generic drug companies are rewarded for being the first to
start the process of making a copycat version. The first company
to successfully challenge the patent protection gets 180 days of
exclusive rights to sell the generic version, typically at a
price not much lower than the brand. The brand drug maker also
can offer an official generic, as Pfizer did with Watson.  Pfizer, though, undercut Watson’s price in an effort to
hang onto its own brand market share after the drug lost patent
protection last November.  Bisaro said the deal was worth it, though, for the
additional recognition it brought his company.  “For us, Lipitor was a great one-off opportunity,” he
said. “I don’t think Pfizer maximized its value, and as such I
don’t think it maximized our value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  