-- Weather on Steroids Is Global Warming, Stupid: Paul Barrett
-- B y   P a u l   B a r r e t t
-- 2012-11-01T15:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/weather-on-steroids-is-global-warming-stupid-paul-barrett.html
Yes, yes, it’s unsophisticated to
blame any given storm on climate change. Men and women in white
lab coats tell us -- and they’re right -- that many factors
contribute to each severe weather episode. Climate deniers
exploit scientific complexity to avoid any discussion at all.  Clarity, however, isn’t beyond reach.  Hurricane Sandy 
demands it: At least 40 U.S. deaths. Economic losses expected to
climb as high as $50 billion. Eight million homes without power.
Hundreds of thousands of people evacuated. More than 15,000
flights grounded. Factories, stores, and hospitals shut. Lower
Manhattan dark, silent, and underwater.  An unscientific survey of the social networking literature
on Sandy reveals an illuminating tweet (you read that correctly)
from Jonathan Foley, director of the Institute on the
Environment at the University of Minnesota, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Nov. 5 issue.  On Oct. 29, Foley thumbed thusly: “Would this kind of storm
happen without climate change? Yes. Fueled by many factors. Is
storm stronger because of climate change? Yes.”  Eric Pooley , senior vice president of the Environmental
Defense Fund, and former deputy editor of Bloomberg
Businessweek, offers a baseball analogy: “We can’t say that
steroids caused any one home run by Barry Bonds, but steroids
sure helped him hit more and hit them farther. Now we have
weather on steroids.”  Oceans Warmed  In an Oct. 30 blog post, Mark Fischetti of Scientific
American took a spin through Ph.D.-land and found more and more
credentialed experts willing to shrug off the climate caveats.  The broadening consensus: “Climate change amps up other
basic factors that contribute to big storms. For example, the
oceans have warmed, providing more energy for storms. And the
Earth’s atmosphere has warmed, so it retains more moisture,
which is drawn into storms and is then dumped on us.” Even those
of us who are science-phobic can get the gist of that.  Sandy featured a scary extra twist implicating climate
change. An Atlantic hurricane moving up the East Coast crashed
into cold air dipping south from  Canada . The collision
supercharged the storm’s energy level and extended its
geographical reach.  Pushing that cold air south was an atmospheric pattern,
known as a blocking high, above the Arctic Ocean. Climate
scientists Charles Greene and Bruce Monger of Cornell
University, writing earlier this year in Oceanography, provided
evidence that Arctic ice-melts linked to global warming
contribute to the very atmospheric pattern that sent the frigid
burst down across Canada and the eastern U.S.  Insurance Costs  If all that doesn’t impress, forget the scientists
ostensibly devoted to advancing knowledge and saving lives.
Listen instead to corporate insurers committed to compiling
statistics for profit.  On Oct. 17 the giant German reinsurance company Munich Re
issued a prescient report titled Severe Weather in North
America. Globally, the rate of extreme weather events is rising,
and “nowhere in the world is the rising number of natural
catastrophes more evident than in North America.”  From 1980 through 2011, weather disasters caused losses
totaling $1.06 trillion. Munich Re found “a nearly quintupled
number of weather-related loss events in North America for the
past three decades.”  By contrast, there was “an increase factor of 4 in Asia,
2.5 in Africa, 2 in  Europe , and 1.5 in South America.” Human-
caused climate change “is believed to contribute to this trend,”
the report said, “though it influences various perils in
different ways.”  Heat Waves  Global warming “particularly affects formation of heat
waves, droughts, intense precipitation events, and in the long
run most probably also tropical cyclone intensity,” Munich Re
said.  This July was the hottest month recorded in the U.S. since
record-keeping began in 1895, according to the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration. The U.S. Drought Monitor
reported that two-thirds of the continental U.S. suffered
drought conditions this summer.  Granted, Munich Re wants to sell more reinsurance, backup
policies purchased by other insurance companies, so maybe it has
a selfish reason to stir anxiety. Yet it has no obvious motive
for fingering global warming vs. other causes.  “If the first effects of climate change are already
perceptible,” said Peter Hoppe, the company’s chief of geo-risks
research, “all alerts and measures against it have become even
more pressing.”  Economy vs. Environment  Which raises the question of what alerts and measures to
undertake. In his book The Conundrum, David Owen, a staff writer
at the New Yorker, contends that as long as the West places high
and unquestioning value on economic growth and consumer
gratification -- with  China  and the rest of the developing world
right behind -- we will continue to burn the fossil fuels whose
emissions trap heat in the atmosphere. Fast trains, hybrid cars,
compact fluorescent light bulbs, carbon offsets--they’re just
not enough, Owen writes.  Yet even he would surely agree that the only responsible
first step is to put climate change back on the table for
discussion. The issue was missing-in-action during the
presidential debates and, regardless of who wins on Nov. 6, is
unlikely to appear on the near-term congressional calendar.
After Sandy, that seems insane.  Climate Agnostic  Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  has gone from being a
supporter years ago of clean energy and emission caps to, more
recently, a climate agnostic. On Aug. 30, he belittled  Barack Obama ’s vow to arrest climate change, made during the 2008
presidential campaign.  “President Obama promised to begin to slow the rise of the
oceans and heal the planet,” Romney told the Republican National
Convention in storm-tossed Tampa. “My promise is to help you and
your family.”  Two months later, in the wake of Sandy, submerged families
in New Jersey and New York urgently needed some help dealing
with that rising-ocean stuff.  Obama and his strategists clearly decided that in a tight
race during fragile economic times, he should compete with
Romney by promising to mine more coal and drill more oil. On the
campaign trail, when Obama refers to the environment, he does so
only in the context of spurring “green jobs.”  Fuel Efficiency  During his time in office, Obama has made modest progress
on climate issues. His administration’s fuel-efficiency
standards will reduce by half the amount of greenhouse-gas
emissions from new cars and trucks by 2025.  His regulations and proposed rules to curb mercury, carbon,
and other emissions from coal-fired power plants are forcing
utilities to retire some of the dirtiest old facilities. And the
country has doubled the generation of energy from renewable
sources such as solar and wind.  Still, renewable energy accounts for less than 15 percent
of the country’s electricity. The U.S. can’t shake its fossil
fuel addiction by going cold turkey. Offices and factories can’t
function in the dark. Shippers and drivers and air travelers
will not abandon petroleum overnight.  While scientists and entrepreneurs search for breakthrough
technologies, the next president should push an energy plan that
exploits plentiful domestic natural gas supplies.  Burned for power, gas emits about half as much carbon as
coal. That’s a trade-off already under way, and it’s worth
expanding. Environmentalists taking a hard no-gas line are
making a mistake.  Financial Incentives  Conservatives champion market forces -- as do smart
liberals -- and financial incentives should be part of the
climate agenda.  In 2009 the House of Representatives passed cap-and-trade
legislation that would have rewarded more nimble industrial
players that figure out how to use cleaner energy. The bill died
in the Senate in 2010, a victim of Tea Party-inspired Republican
obstructionism and Obama’s decision to spend his political
capital to push health-care reform.  Republican fanaticism about all forms of government
intervention in the economy aside, the idea of pricing carbon
must remain a part of the national debate.  One politically plausible way to tax carbon emissions is to
transfer the revenue to individuals.  Alaska , which pays
dividends to its citizens from royalties imposed on oil
companies, could provide inspiration, just as Romneycare in
 Massachusetts  pointed the way to Obamacare.  Global Solutions  Ultimately, the global warming crisis will require global
solutions.  Washington  can become a credible advocate for moving
the Chinese and Indian economies away from coal and toward
alternatives only if the U.S. takes concerted political action.  At the last United Nations conference on climate change in
Durban, South  Africa , the world’s governments agreed to seek a
new legal agreement that binds signatories to reduce their
carbon emissions. Negotiators agreed to come up with a new
treaty by 2015, to be put in place by 2020.  To work, the treaty will need to include a way to penalize
countries that don’t meet emission-reduction targets --
something the U.S. has until now refused to support.  If Hurricane Sandy does nothing else, it should suggest
that we need to commit more to disaster preparation and
response. As with climate change, Romney has displayed an
alarmingly cavalier attitude on weather emergencies. During one
Republican primary debate last year, he was asked point-blank
whether the functions of the Federal Emergency Management Agency
ought to be turned back to the states.  ‘Fend for Themselves’  “Absolutely,” he replied. Let the states fend for
themselves or, better yet, put the private sector in charge.
Pay-as-you-go rooftop rescue service may appeal to plutocrats;
when the flood waters are rising, ordinary folks welcome the
National Guard.  It’s possible Romney’s kill-FEMA remark was merely a pander
to the right, rather than a serious policy proposal.  Still, the reconfirmed need for strong federal disaster
capability--FEMA and Obama got glowing reviews from New Jersey
Governor Chris Christie, a Romney supporter--makes the
Republican presidential candidate’s campaign-trail statement all
the more reprehensible.  The U.S. has allowed transportation and other
infrastructure to grow obsolete and deteriorate, which poses a
threat not just to public safety yet also to the nation’s
economic health.  Surge Protectors  With once-in-a-century floods now occurring every few
years, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo and New York City Mayor
Michael Bloomberg said the country’s biggest city will need to
consider building surge protectors and somehow waterproofing its
enormous subway system.  “It’s not prudent to sit here and say it’s not going to
happen again,” Cuomo said. “I believe it is going to happen
again.”  David Rothkopf, the chief executive and editor-at-large of
Foreign Policy, noted in an Oct. 29 blog post that Sandy also
brought his hometown, Washington, to a standstill, impeding
affairs of state. To lessen future impact, he suggested burying
urban and suburban power lines, an expensive yet sensible
improvement.  Where to get the money? Rothkopf proposed shifting funds
from post-Sept. 11 bureaucratic leviathans such as the
Department of Homeland Security, which he alleges is shot
through with waste.  Political Will  In truth, what’s lacking in America’s approach to climate
change isn’t the resources to act but the political will to do
so.  A Pew Research Center poll conducted in October found that
two-thirds of Americans say there is “solid evidence” the earth
is getting warmer. That’s down 10 points since 2006. Among
Republicans, more than half say it’s either not a serious
problem or not a problem at all.  Such numbers reflect the success of climate deniers in
framing action on global warming as inimical to economic growth.
This is both shortsighted and dangerous. The U.S. can’t afford
regular Sandy-size disruptions in economic activity. To limit
the costs of climate-related disasters, both politicians and the
public need to accept how much they’re helping to cause them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Barrett in New York at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romesh Ratnesar at 
 rratnesar@bloomberg.net  