-- Wells Fargo Says False Claims Suit Breaks Deal With U.S.
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-01T19:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/wells-fargo-says-false-claims-suit-breaks-deal-with-u-s-.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, asked a federal judge to rule that a false claims
case filed by the U.S. violates the conditions of a settlement
over foreclosure practices that was approved in April.  Wells Fargo, in a filing today in federal court in
Washington, said the U.S. breached the terms of the $5 billion
deal by suing in federal court in New York for “hundreds of
millions of dollars” based on conduct that the bank is no
longer liable for.  “A comparison between the allegations in the N.Y.
complaint and the conduct covered by the U.S. release
demonstrates without any doubt that the United States is
attempting to impose additional liability for the same conduct
for which Wells Fargo obtained permanent peace through the very
large settlement,” Douglas Baruch, a lawyer for San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo, said in court papers.  Wells Fargo’s filing was submitted to U.S. District Judge
Rosemary Collyer, who on April 4 approved a $25 billion
agreement with five banks to settle U.S. and state probes into
abusive foreclosure practices. On Oct. 9, the U.S. sued Wells
Fargo in New York, claiming the bank made reckless mortgage
loans that caused losses for a federal insurance program when
they defaulted.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , declined to comment on the filing.  Misconduct Alleged  The government’s New York lawsuit alleges misconduct
spanning more than a decade related to the bank’s participation
in a Federal Housing Administration program. The lawsuit is part
of a larger effort by the U.S. to recoup losses from defaulted
mortgages that were insured by the FHA.  The Department of Housing and Urban Development’s inspector
general has been reviewing loan-origination practices since
January 2010. An audit released in 2011 found that half of loans
originated by 15 lenders didn’t meet FHA standards for verifying
borrowers’ income and other underwriting standards. The agency
has paid more than $37 billion in claims related to defaulted
mortgages since 2008.  The FHA has paid hundreds of millions of dollars in
insurance claims on thousands of mortgages that defaulted in
connection with the  FHA’s Direct Endorsement Lender Program  as a
result of false certifications by Wells Fargo, according to the
New York complaint.  Wells Fargo has participated in the program, which allows
HUD to reimburse lenders for defaulted loans that were approved
for FHA insurance, since 1986, according to the complaint.  Internal Reviews  The bank’s internal reviews identified more than 6,500
deficient loans it was required to report from 2002 to 2010,
including more than 3,000 that were 60 days into default within
the first six months, yet only reported about 300 of them to the
department, allowing it to avoid repayment on about $190 million
in benefits, according to the complaint.  The U.S. is seeking to recover unspecified damages and
civil penalties under the False Claims Act for hundreds of
millions of dollars in insurance claims already paid by HUD, as
well as penalties under the 1989 Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery and Enforcement Act. The False Claims Act damages to be
tripled.  The U.S. is also seeking compensatory damages for claims
including breach of fiduciary duty, gross negligence and unjust
enrichment for the insurance claims that the department has paid
and expects to pay for mortgages wrongfully certified by Wells
Fargo.  ‘Knowingly’ Certified  In today’s filing in  Washington , Wells Fargo says the
earlier foreclosure settlement bars the government from bringing
claims based on the bank’s FHA program “unless the U.S. can
establish that an individual Wells Fargo underwriter ‘knowingly’
certified that a specific mortgage loan met FHA eligibility
requirements when, in fact, the particular mortgage loan”
didn’t.  The U.S. may only use evidence of Wells Fargo’s quality
control and underwriting programs when seeking to hold the bank
liable for an FHA violation on “an individual loan-by-loan
basis,” according to the filing.  The bank asked Collyer to declare that the U.S. violated
the settlement and to block the government from pursuing the New
York case.  “Wells Fargo committed billions to the U.S. in settlement
of the D.C. action and should be able to rely on the United
States to observe and abide by its commitments and
representations,” Baruch said in the filing.  ‘Substantial Percentage’  Wells Fargo is accused in the New York case of certifying,
over four years, that more than 100,000 retail loans met HUD
requirements and were eligible for FHA insurance while knowing
that “a very substantial percentage” weren’t properly
underwritten, contained “unacceptable risk” and were
ineligible.  The bank hired temporary workers to approve FHA loans and
failed to properly train them, paid bonuses to underwriters to
approve as many loans as possible and applied pressure on loan
officers and underwriters to originate and approve as many FHA
loans as possible, the U.S. said in the complaint.  “Wells Fargo, the largest HUD-approved Federal Housing
Administration residential mortgage lender, engaged in a regular
practice of reckless origination and underwriting of its retail
FHA loans over the course of more than four years, from May 2001
through October 2005, all the while knowing that it would not be
responsible when the materially deficient loans went into
default,” the U.S. said in the complaint.  Deutsche Bank  In May, Deutsche Bank settled with the civil frauds unit in
Bharara’s office, agreeing to pay $202.3 million to resolve
claims that its MortgageIT unit lied to qualify thousands of
risky mortgages. In February, Flagstar Bancorp Inc., a Michigan
lender, and  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s CitiMortgage agreed to pay a total
of more than $290 million to resolve suits brought by Bharara’s
office. A suit against Allied Home Mortgage Corp. is still
pending.  The Washington case is U.S. v. Bank of America Corp., 12-
cv-00361, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington). The New York case is U.S. v. Wells Fargo Bank
N.A., 12-cv-7527, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  