-- Wind Farm Operating Costs Fall 38% in Four Years, BNEF Says
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-11-01T16:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/wind-farm-operating-costs-fall-38-in-four-years-bnef-says-1-.html
The cost of running and maintaining
wind farms has fallen 38 percent in four years as competition
among contractors increased and turbine performance improved,
bringing closer the day that the technology matches fossil fuel.  The average price of operation and maintenance contracts
for onshore farms this year slid to 19,200 euros ($25,000) a
megawatt from 30,900 euros in 2008, Bloomberg New Energy Finance
said today. It took data from 38 developers and service
providers in more than 24 markets for its first O&M  Price Index .  “Wind power has done much to improve its competitiveness
against gas-fired and coal-fired generation in recent years via
lower-cost, more technically advanced turbines and more
sophisticated siting and management,”  Michael Liebreich , chief
executive officer of London-based BNEF, said in the statement.  The figures help inform debate in the U.S. and Britain,
where governments are considering how much to subsidize
renewable energy. BNEF’s findings show manufacturers led by as
 Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  are bringing down prices, making the
machines more profitable for power providers to run.  Britain is cutting subsidies for onshore wind by 10 percent
as Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government discusses halting
subsidies once the current renewable energy targets are met. In
the U.S., President  Barack Obama ’s administration is pushing
Congress to renew tax credits favoring wind in the face of
opposition from Republican lawmakers.  Subsidy Dependence  Without the U.S. credit, the market for wind towers may
fall to $100 million to $500 million next year from $2 billion
to $2.5 billion at present, BNEF said on July 31.  Declining costs for servicing wind farms are positive for
developers of projects, which are suffering from subsidy cuts
across  Europe  and the U.S. Service agreements are also an
important additional revenue stream for turbine makers such as
Vestas, the world’s largest turbine-maker.  Developers expect O&M pricing to be “fairly stable” to at
least 2015 and view turbine makers Enercon GmbH,  Siemens AG (SIE)  and
Vestas as the best service providers, according to BNEF.  Enercon’s full-service contracts were nearly 20 percent
cheaper than the average from 2008 to 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  