-- Wipro Stock Jumps as Consumer Care Division to Separate
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-11-01T08:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/wipro-jumps-most-in-2-months-after-separating-unit-mumbai-mover.html
Shares of  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , India’s third-
largest software exporter, are poised for their biggest daily
gain in almost two months after the company agreed to separate
its consumer care and lighting businesses.  Wipro  rose  3.9 percent to 364.20 rupees as of 1:11 p.m. in
Mumbai after rising as much as 6.9 percent, heading for the
biggest jump since Sept. 6. The benchmark Sensex Index rose 0.1
percent, while larger rival  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  dropped 0.3 percent.  Separating units that make baby soaps and  light bulbs  will
help billionaire Chairman  Azim Premji  increase focus on the
information technology business, which accounted for 86 percent
of Wipro’s 372 billion-rupee ($6.9 billion)  revenue  in the year
ended March 31, amid intensifying competition from rivals
including  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. (CTSH)  Wipro has  missed 
analysts’ earnings estimates for four straight quarters amid
slower spending on software services in  North America .  “Investors will be able to make a better judgment of both
the businesses,” said Sandip Sabharwal, chief executive officer
of  portfolio management  at Mumbai-based Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt.
“The two separate companies could create more value for
shareholders than a single one.”  Shareholding Rules  The move will also help Premji increase Wipro’s public
ownership and meet India’s shareholding requirement. Premji, his
family and related entities, who own 80 percent of the company,
need to reduce their stake to 75 percent.  Wipro’s founders’ stake may reduce by as much as 2.7
percent if all minority shareholders exercise the option of
exchanging Wipro Enterprises shares for Wipro stock held by
Premji and his family, Chief Financial Officer Suresh Senapaty
said in a conference call with reporters today.  Wipro, which started as the Western  India  Vegetable
Products Ltd. in 1945, today approved the separation of Wipro
Consumer Care & Lighting, Wipro Infrastructure Engineering and
Medical Diagnostic Product & Services business into a closely
held company called Wipro Enterprises Ltd., according to a
filing made to exchanges.  Wipro Ltd. will be focused exclusively on providing
information technology services, according to the statement.  Splitting the units “is anticipated to provide fresh
impetus for both Wipro Ltd. and Wipro Enterprises Ltd. to pursue
their individual growth strategies,” the company said in the
statement. “The demerger is also expected to improve the
competitiveness in their respective markets.”  The separation is expected to be completed next year,
according to the statement.  Three Options  Wipro shareholders can either receive one share with face
value of 10 rupees in Wipro Enterprises for every five shares of
Wipro, or get one 7 percent redeemable preference share in Wipro
Enterprises, with a face value of 50 rupees, for every five
equity shares of Wipro they hold.  Shareholders also have a third option of exchanging the
shares of Wipro Enterprises and receive in return shares of
Wipro held by Premji. They will be offered one share of Wipro
for every 1.65 shares of Wipro Enterprises, according to the
statement.  “I would like to have a share of the consumer division as
well,” said  Manish Sonthalia , who manages $300 million in
equities at Motilal Oswal Asset Management Co. in Mumbai. “If
they are going to have a focused approach on the consumer side
of things you’ll want to give them the benefit of doubt that
they can scale up the consumer division as well.”  Premji is  Asia ’s seventh-richest person with a net worth of
$14.3 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .
His fortune has dropped by $1.8 billion, or 11.2 percent, so far
this year.  Premji in 1977 changed the company’s name to Wipro after
moving into computer hardware and software.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  