-- Yandex Slides as Web Blocking Law Takes Effect: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-11-01T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/yandex-slides-as-web-blocking-law-takes-effect-russia-overnight.html
Yandex NV (YNDX)  sank the most in two weeks
in  New York  on concern a new law allowing  Russia ’s government to
block access to websites will deter advertisers from the
nation’s most-used search engine.  Shares of Yandex slipped 1.3 percent to $23 on the Nasdaq
Stock Exchange yesterday, defying a 2 percent jump in the
 Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian
companies in New York. Futures expiring in December on Moscow’s
RTS Index climbed 0.4 percent to 143,970 in U.S. trading hours,
as a gauge of volatility in the contracts fell for a fourth day.  The  law , which enables Russian regulators to block access
to websites deemed to be promoting criminal activity against
children without a court order, came into force yesterday,
according to the communications regulator. Yandex, up 17 percent
this year, tried to delay approval of the law, saying more
consultation with the Internet industry was needed. In July,
Wikipedia temporarily shut its website in protest.  “There are lots of questions on how this law will work and
whether it means a potential increase in spending for Yandex and
complications for its business operations,” Konstantin Belov,
an analyst at UralSib Financial Corp in Moscow, said by phone
yesterday. “It may potentially lead to a reduction in some
advertising revenue, particularly from the websites.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, rose 0.9 percent to $28.09
yesterday, rising for the first time in three days. Trading
volumes were 11 percent above the average each day over the last
three months.  Yandex Campaign  The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in
futures, fell 0.3 percent to 25.59 points. Futures contracts on
the ruble due in December were little changed at 31.517 per
dollar yesterday, after the currency jumped 0.3 percent to 31.26
per dollar in Moscow.  The law allows the blocking of access to websites using IP
addresses and domain names and would create a registry of
resources banned for publication. Regulators wouldn’t have to go
to court to blacklist or strike down a website.  The Hague, Netherlands-based Yandex mounted a campaign
against the law. In July, the company put its slogan
“Everything will be found” on its front page with two red
slashes across part of it, linking to a company statement
warning that the legislation may stifle speech and saying it
could spawn abuses. Vkontakte, Russia’s largest social
networking website, also joined the protest.  Mail.ru Falls  Yandex said on Oct. 30 that net income rose 34 percent in
the third quarter to 2.3 billion rubles ($73 million) from the
same period a year earlier. Revenue climbed 41 percent to 7.3
billion rubles, the company said.  Trading volumes for Yandex were 7 percent above the three-
month average for the stock yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Thirty-day volatility , a measure of swings in
the shares, rose to 23.73, the highest since Oct. 23.  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL) , a Russian-language  Internet company ,
fell 1 percent to $33 in  London  yesterday, slipping for the
first day this week.  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , the world’s sixth-biggest mobile phone by
number of subscribers, gained 3.3 percent to $11.38 in New York,
climbing the most since Aug. 17. Volumes were 42 percent above
the three-month average.  Jon Baksaas, chief executive officer of Telenor ASA, a
VimpelCom investor, said in an interview with the Financial
Times Oct. 31 that the Norwegian company would be “pragmatic”
about selling its stake should “others have a strong
appetite.”  ‘Pragmatic View’  Russian billionaire Mikhail Fridman’s Altimo, an  investment
company  that boosted its stake in VimpelCom last month, is
“satisfied” with the current stakeholder structure of the
Amsterdam-based phone provider, Evgeny Dumalkin, vice-president
of Altimo in Moscow, said by e-mail yesterday.        Altimo
increased its stake to 47.9 percent of  voting rights  in
VimpelCom on Oct. 30, while Telenor owns 43 percent.  “We have a pragmatic view given the fact that Altimo now
is definitely in control of the company,”  Dag Melgaard , an
Oslo-based spokesman for Telenor, said by e-mail yesterday.  Russia’s anti-monopoly service is disputing Telenor’s right
to boost its stake in VimpelCom.  Crude oil, Russia’s biggest export earner, climbed to a
one-week high in New York yesterday, after  crude supplies  fell
2.05 million barrels to 373.1 million barrels last week. A gain
of 1.8 million was the median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Surgut Surges  Oil for December delivery rose 1 percent to $87.09 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement
price since Oct. 22. Prices are down 12 percent this year.  Brent
crude  for December settlement dropped 0.6 percent to $108.01 on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, while Urals crude,
Russia’s chief export blend, rose 0.6 percent to $108.18
yesterday.  OAO Surgutneftegas (SGTPY) , Russia’s fourth-largest oil producer,
was the biggest gainer on Russia-U.S. measure yesterday, jumping
5.7 percent $6.16, narrowing the discount to its Moscow-traded
shares to 1.7 percent. The company’s preferred stock rose 0.9
percent to 19.596 rubles, or 63 U.S. cents, on the Micex Index.
One ADR equals 10  shares . Surgut  futures  due next month gained
0.5 percent in New York yesterday.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 1.1 percent to
1,427.59 yesterday, while the S&P GSCI Spot Index of 24
commodities increased 0.2 percent to 638.86.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  