-- Yuan Forwards Signal U.S. Election Will Snap Rally: China Credit
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-11-02T03:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-01/yuan-forwards-signal-u-s-election-will-snap-rally-china-credit.html
Yuan  forwards are trading at the
biggest discount to the spot rate in four years on bets a three-
month appreciation in  China ’s currency will reverse following
next week’s U.S. elections.  One-month contracts traded at a 0.92 percent discount today
and a 0.98 percent gap last week was the biggest since December
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
gained 2 percent in the August-October period and a weakening
may cool global demand for yuan-denominated debt. The  average
yield  on Dim Sum bonds in Hong Kong fell 40 basis points to 4.92
percent since July, a Bank of China Ltd. index shows.  U.S. presidential candidates  Barack Obama  and  Mitt Romney 
both say an undervalued yuan gives China an unfair edge in
trade, with the latter having threatened to label the nation a
“currency manipulator.” The yuan is forecast to depreciate 0.9
percent to 6.3 against the greenback by the end of this year as
the currencies of  Brazil ,  India  and  Russia  strengthen, according
to the median estimates of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The yuan is likely to retreat once the U.S. election is
over as political pressure for appreciation will abate,” Kenix Lai, a foreign-exchange analyst at  Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23)  in
Hong Kong, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Focus will
then return to China’s economic fundamentals. A tough exports
outlook isn’t supportive of a strong exchange rate.”  BRIC Currencies  One-month non-deliverable forwards for the yuan fell 0.1
percent to 6.3008 per dollar yesterday in  Hong Kong , after
advancing 0.71 percent in October, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The contracts, which are little changed today and
settled in dollars, allow investors to buy or sell the currency
at a set price on a specified date. The yuan fell 0.03 percent
to 6.2426 today in  Shanghai , following an October gain of 0.76
percent.  The Brazilian real will advance 1 percent by the end of
this year, India’s rupee will gain 0.8 percent and Russia’s
ruble will appreciate 0.9 percent, based on the median estimates
in Bloomberg surveys.  The yuan’s recent gains were linked to the U.S. elections
and China’s economic data for September, China Securities
Journal reported Oct. 29, citing Chen Daofu, a researcher at the
State Council’s Development Research Center. Continued
appreciation is unlikely unless the government announces large-
scale stimulus, the paper quoted Chen as saying.  Tariffs Threatened  Obama and Romney criticized China’s  exchange-rate  policy
while campaigning ahead of the Nov. 6 election, saying an
undervalued yuan gives Chinese exporters an unfair advantage.
The  U.S. trade deficit  in goods with the Asian nation reached a
record $295.4 billion in 2011, an 8 percent increase from 2010.  “On day one, I will label them a currency manipulator,
which allows us to apply tariffs where they’re taking jobs,”
Romney said during the Oct. 22 debate with Obama. The U.S.
Treasury’s latest report on exchange-rate policies, issued May
25, said there is evidence the yuan “remains significantly
undervalued” and further appreciation is warranted.  “The yuan’s fixing has the potential to strengthen going
into U.S. elections,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in an Oct. 29 research
note. “We continue to see a correction post-U.S. elections to
6.3 by year-end.”  Yuan Fixings  The People’s Bank of China sets a  daily reference rate  on
either side of which the yuan spot in Shanghai can trade as much
as 1 percent. The central bank today lowered the fixing to
6.3045 per dollar, 1.02 percent below the previous closing
level, meaning the currency had to weaken to remain within its
permitted trading range.  “We see signs that the PBOC is managing the exchange rate
fixing within a narrow range around 6.3,”  Tao Wang , the Hong
Kong-based head of China economic research at UBS AG, wrote in
an e-mailed reply to  Bloomberg News  yesterday. “We don’t think
the PBOC will favor a much stronger yuan as it’s no longer much
undervalued, export growth is weak and growth has slowed.”  She predicts the currency will trade in a range of 6.2 to
6.4 versus the dollar in the next 12 months, saying “steady and
predictable yuan appreciation has ended.” China’s overseas
sales increased 7.4 percent in the first nine months of this
year, after climbing 20 percent in 2011 and 31 percent in 2010,
and the economy expanded in the third quarter at the slowest
pace since March 2009.  Growth Optimism  A once-a-decade leadership transition in China, which will
start on Nov. 8, is fueling bets for more stimulus in the
world’s second-largest economy. An official  Purchasing Managers ’
Index was 50.2 in October, suggesting manufacturing expanded for
the first time in three months, data showed yesterday.  Five-year credit-default swaps protecting China’s sovereign
debt dropped 21 basis points to 67.8 in October in New York, the
lowest level since January 2011, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent if a government or company fails to
adhere to its debt agreements.  “I see the data continues to be mixed,” Endre Pedersen,
managing director for Asian fixed income in  Singapore  at
Manulife Asset Management, said in an interview on Oct. 30.
“People are focused on what the new administration will be able
to do. It’s still very early days but markets move ahead of
numbers, ahead of news.”  Manulife will “continue to sit on” the $2 billion worth
of yuan-denominated assets it manages, Pedersen said, adding
that China’s currency is likely to keep appreciating over the
next three to five years.  ‘In The Price’  Besides optimism on China’s growth outlook, the yuan also
gained on a weakened view on the dollar since the  Federal
Reserve  unveiled a third round of quantitative easing on Sept.
13, Linan Liu, rates strategist for greater China at Deutsche
Bank AG in Hong Kong wrote in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg
News on Oct. 31. Yet Liu said she still expects the yuan to
retreat to 6.3 per dollar by year-end.  One-month implied volatility in the yuan, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, had risen to 1.6
percent yesterday from a two-year low of 1.05 percent on Oct. 5.
The yield on benchmark 10-year  government bonds  has climbed 11
basis points to 3.60 percent since the end of September,
according to Chinabond data.  “I believe that some of the good news is already in the
price,”  Paul Mackel , a Hong Kong-based head of Asian currency
research at HSBC Holdings Plc, wrote in an e-mailed reply to
Bloomberg on Oct. 31, predicting the yuan will reach 6.3 per
dollar by year-end.  “Despite some brighter signs for the economy, it will be
harder for the yuan to keep strengthening at the pace,” Mackel
said. “And I’d expect those that trade onshore will look for
better levels to re-sell spot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  