-- 
‘Jeopardy,’ IBM Had Reason to Be Scared of Watson Match: Books

-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 
2011-02-19T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/-jeopardy-ibm-had-reason-to-be-scared-of-watson-match-books.html
Plenty of observers have weighed in
on Watson, the computer that  International Business Machines
Corp . built and programmed to play the quiz show “Jeopardy!”
Few have done it better than Stephen Baker, author of “ Final
Jeopardy: Man vs. Machine and the Quest to Know Everything .”  Baker, formerly the senior technology writer for
Businessweek, got behind the scenes at Armonk, New York-based
IBM to watch a team of scientists and engineers create a machine
to compete in  Sony Corp .’s beloved half-hour nerd-fest of
answers and questions hosted by Alex Trebek.  Adding to the challenge was one of the computer’s flesh-
and-blood opponents: Ken Jennings, the  Joe DiMaggio  of
“Jeopardy!” who won a record 74 straight matches.  David Ferrucci, the chief scientist on the team that
developed Watson -- named for IBM’s founder -- understood that
no matter how fast the machine was, or how many facts they
crammed into its database, humans like Jennings still possessed
skills no one had been able to engineer with much success.  “Any ‘Jeopardy’ machine they built would struggle mightily
to master language and common sense -- areas that come as
naturally to humans as breathing,” Baker writes. “On the
positive side, it wouldn’t suffer from nerves.”  Baker goes easy on the hard science behind Watson,
referring readers to scholarly journals for technological
details. Even his description of the hardware makes the
technical tangible:  Leaning Towers  “The eight towers, each the size of a restaurant
refrigerator, carried scores of computers on horizontal shelves,
each about as big as a pizza box. The towers were tilted, like
the one in Pisa, giving them more surface area for cooling.”  Instead, he plays up the skirmishes that break out at the
border between person and processor. The most engaging chapter
focuses on the controversy the Watson project sparked in the
artificial-intelligence community.  Some scientists feared Watson would draw attention, and
funding, away from their efforts to create machines that mimic
human thought, a complex and not fully understood process.  “The world would see, and perhaps fall in love with, a
machine that only simulated intelligence,” Baker writes. “The
machine was too dumb, too ignorant, too famous, and too rich.
(In that sense, IBM’s computer resembled lots of other
television stars.)”  On a more mundane level, IBM and the producers of the show
were concerned about image. IBM’s Deep Blue had triumphed over
chess master Garry Kasparov in 1997, but chess is not
“Jeopardy!” and chess tournaments in the U.S. don’t attract
nine million viewers a night. Any failure by Watson could damage
the brand.  Buzzer Speed  “Jeopardy!” had its own concerns. The producers couldn’t
be seen as rigging the game for or against the machine --evoking
the specter of the quiz-show scandals of the 1950s --but they
couldn’t allow the lightning-quick Watson to buzz in on every
clue, steamrolling his human rivals. The solution: Watson got a
mechanical thumb.  The tournament itself was taped in January and aired Feb.
14, 15 and 16. Watson’s strengths and flaws were manifest. Puns
and wordplay stumped it (including a category devoted,
ironically, to words found on a computer keyboard); while it
excelled at more straightforward trivia such as Beatles lyrics.  Baker’s last chapter gives details of the broadcast not
apparent to the TV audience, including judgment calls, equipment
malfunctions (by the game board, not Watson) and the reason
Watson answered a question about U.S. cities with “Toronto.”  In the end, Watson wiped the floor with his opponents,
Jennings and Brad Rutter. Not only because he was knowledgeable
-- both his opponents were, too -- but also because he was,
after all, a machine: “It was its buzzer that killed us,”
Rutter said.  “Final Jeopardy” is published by Houghton Mifflin
Harcourt (268 pages, $24). To buy this book in  North America ,
click  here .    Andrew Dunn  writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Andrew Dunn in New York at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  