-- 
Madoff’s Credibility Ends When His Mouth Moves: Ann Woolner

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-02-18T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/madoff-s-credibility-ends-when-his-mouth-moves-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
  Bernard Madoff  didn’t arrive on the
front page of the New York Times this week with a reputation for
shining the bright light of truth into the shadows that shroud
wrongdoing.  He lives in a federal  prison  because he lied for years to
trusting friends, charities, educational and religious
institutions, thousands of investors and at least some family
members. He bilked them of $20 billion.  You might expect that having almost two years in prison to
reflect, after learning of the suicides, the heartbreak, the
financial devastation he left in his wake, Madoff might have
used his first newspaper interview to express gut-wrenching
remorse, perhaps fling his soul onto the mercy of those he hurt.  Instead, he said of them, “I would have loved for them to
not lose anything, but that was a risk they were well aware of
by investing in the market.”  The fact that they weren’t investing in the market is why
Madoff’s in prison. He concocted mountains of phony paperwork to
trick them into thinking they were, and that they were doing
quite well at it.  As for risk, it’s safe to say he never informed them of the
risk involved in putting money into a  Ponzi scheme .  Madoff’s point seems to be that, because the market carries
risk, and because his victims thought they were investing in it,
they should have been prepared for what happened.  Those of us on the outside of the Madoff rip-off can say
these people should have been more careful. I’m sure some of his
victims think so, too.  ‘Doing 150 Years’  For the perpetrator to say so is nothing more than the
rationalization of someone trying to share the heavy burden of
blame.  At least he didn’t repeat what he said last August when a
fellow prisoner taunted him about his crime, according to New
York  magazine .  “F--- my victims,” Madoff retorted, bank robber K.C.
White told the magazine. “I carried them for 20 years, and now
I’m doing 150 years.”  That Madoff has a warped view of his crimes is clear. So
it’s hard to give weight to anything he says, including his
claim that certain unnamed banks and funds “had to know” they
were putting money into a fraud.  His word now is worth exactly the value it had when he
swore to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that
everything about his firm was copacetic, and then cited the
SEC’s clean bill of health to wary investors.  Didn’t Say  Madoff’s statements from prison can’t hurt those he says
must have known what he was doing, nor help family and friends
he says didn’t.  But pay attention to what he presumably didn’t say in his
New York Times interview, or in the e-mail he exchanged with
reporter Diana B. Henriques.  He doesn’t offer proof that his primary bank, JPMorgan
Chase, knew it was servicing a fraud. He claims banks were
“complicit” without saying how, except that they purposefully
shielded their eyes from the truth.  He uses some of the same language that bankruptcy trustee  Irving Picard  uses in a lawsuit seeking $6.4 billion from
JPMorgan to give Madoff victims. Morgan was complicit, they both
claim. It knew or should have known about his fraud.  No Specifics  The prisoner asserts he gave Picard’s legal team
information last summer to help the trustee hunt money for
investors who were net losers in Madoff’s scheme. He seems to
claim he proved actual involvement in the fraud by some players:  “The banks and funds were complicit in one form or another
and my information to Picard when he was here established
this,” he wrote Henriques in December.  OK, what form?  (A lawyer for Picard says the trustee never met with Madoff
but didn’t dispute that members of the legal team did.)  The Madoff interview, as reported, contained no specifics
about a bank or a fund doing anything to knowingly further the
scheme.  “Could he describe a meeting where banks caught him red
handed and still acquiesced in his conduct?” Columbia
University law professor  John Coffee  asked in a telephone
interview.  If he could have, surely he would have, and surely we would
have read about it in the Times. Nowhere in 45 column inches
does gun smoke waft.  And if Madoff had handed Picard evidence of JPMorgan’s
knowing involvement, there’s no sign of it in the 115-page
lawsuit Picard filed, either.  To Be Seen  So we’re back to the idea that JPMorgan should have known,
but it may or may not have actually known. So what’s new?  Whether “should have known” turns out to be as powerful
as “knew” in this case remains to be seen. Unless Picard can
prove that JPMorgan was either truly complicit or seriously
suspicious, he’ll have a tough time getting the full $6.4
billion he seeks from the bank.  JPMorgan’s defense so far shows it is ready for battle. Its
spokesmen say the claims are bogus and its lawyers say in legal
papers that Picard is reaching far beyond the law to allege
them, especially in  bankruptcy court .  If it keeps fighting, the legal dispute over the truth of
Picard’s claims would put the question of the bank’s complicity
before the public for months, damaging the bank’s reputation as
it goes.  Madoff’s claims, on the other hand, were brushed off by
investors this week. On Feb. 16, the day the Times lead its
front page with the Madoff interview and headlined it with his
claim the “Banks ‘Had to Know,’” JPMorgan shares rose the most
in five weeks to a 28-month high.  So much for the credibility of one of the biggest con men
in U.S. history.  (Ann Woolner is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:  Ann Woolner  in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  