-- 
Maersk Said Set to Order 10 of World's Biggest Container Ships From Daewoo

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-02-18T13:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/maersk-said-set-to-order-10-of-world-s-biggest-container-ships-from-daewoo.html
A.P. Moller-Maersk A/S, the biggest
container line, is set to order 10 of the world’s largest cargo-
box ships, according to three people familiar with the
situation.  The deal with Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co.
also includes options and rights for another 20 vessels, each
able to carry 18,000 standard 20-foot containers, said two of
the people who declined to be identified as they aren’t
authorized to release the information. The deal would be worth
more than $4 billion if all 30 ships are ordered, they said.  The vessels, about 30 percent bigger than the largest
afloat, may help Maersk benefit from rising exports of Asian-
made clothes, furniture and other goods to  Europe  and the U.S.
Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. and Zodiac Maritime Agencies Ltd. also
ordered 10,000 container-plus vessels last year as shipping
lines resumed fleet expansion plans following a two-year hiatus
during the global recession.  “This is going to prompt a lot of the bigger shipping
lines to make orders for large ships,” said Hur Sung Duck, an
analyst at HI Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “Lines have
to order now if they want to avoid a shortage of ships in 2014
after the majority of on-order vessels are delivered.”  Seoul-based Daewoo, the world’s third-largest shipbuilder,
declined to comment in an e-mailed response to queries.  Mediterranean Shipping  “I can say that we have not signed a deal for new ships,”
said Michael Storgaard, a spokesman for Copenhagen-based Maersk.
He declined to comment further.  Daewoo gained 5.7 percent, the biggest increase in more
than two months, to close at 34,200 won in  Seoul  trading. Maersk
dropped as much as 1.3 percent to 53,000 kroner in Copenhagen.
Reuters reported the order earlier today.  Mediterranean Shipping Co. , the No. 2 container line after
Maersk, is building up a fleet of 21 vessels able to carry about
14,000 boxes each, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
ships, including the largest in service worldwide, are being
built by Daewoo and Samsung Heavy Industries Co.  Maersk forecast last month that the global container market
may grow by more than 8 percent this year, exceeding the 6
percent expansion it predicted in November.  Maersk lifted its earnings forecast for 2010 on Nov. 10,
saying freight rates and volumes will help the company record
the highest profit in its 106-year history after posting a loss
a year earlier when trade volumes contracted.  Market Share  Chief Executive Officer Nils Smedegaard Andersen said Jan.
26 that Maersk will be able to keep its market share in 2011
without adding new ships if the container market grows by 6
percent to 8 percent.  Maersk has a global market share of 14.5 percent and
Geneva, Switzerland-based Mediterranean has 12.8 percent, based
on container-fleet capacity, according to  AXS Alphaliner . Twenty
months ago, Maersk had 15 percent of the market while
Mediterranean had 11.4 percent.  Daewoo’s previous biggest single order for  container ships 
was in July 2008 when Maersk ordered 16 ships able to carry
7,450 boxes apiece for $2.3 billion. Ship orders usually take
about three years to execute.  Neptune Orient, Singapore’s largest container line, ordered
two ships capable of carrying 10,700 containers each last year
from Daewoo, as part of a $1.2 billion deal. Zodiac Maritime
ordered as many as 10 13,000-box ships, costing about $140
million each, from Jinhae, South Korea-based STX Offshore &
Shipbuilding Co. in October, according to  Clarkson Plc , the
world’s biggest shipbroker.  Worldwide container-shipping demand may increase 9.7
percent this year as world trade rebounds from the global
recession, according to Clarkson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 