-- 
Africa Should Broaden Coffee Export Destinations, According to ICO's Sette

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-02-18T09:53:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/africa-should-broaden-coffee-export-destinations-according-to-ico-s-sette.html
African coffee producers should
diversify their exports to tap the crop’s “bright future,”
said Jose Sette, acting executive director of the  International
Coffee Organization .  Broader-based foreign revenue would give support during
slumps, Sette said yesterday in an interview at an Eastern
African Fine Coffee Association conference in Arusha, Tanzania.
Growing countries should invest in expanding productive
activities instead of “depending on aid from abroad,” he said,
singling out research and training as key areas.  Arabica coffee traded in  New York  has climbed 12 percent
this year after jumping 77 percent in 2010. Rising global prices
should motivate producers to boost output and expand Africa’s
share of world supply after it fell by half in the last 25
years, according to Sette.  “Coffee has a bright future for the continent if addressed
well,” he said. Still, “Africa must diversify and not depend
on the sector alone,” Sette said.  Increasing world demand is a spur for the continent to
expand its coffee production, he said, pointing to rising
consumption in producing countries and in eastern  Europe .  The global coffee market may have a 20 million-bag
shortfall in 10 years as demand climbs more quickly than supply,
Oscar Schaps, managing director of INTL Hencorp Futures, said
yesterday.  “Africa needs to invest in a broad range of sectors,
including research and training,” he said.  Coffee farmers may need two or three years to boost
production, according to Ted Lingle, co-founder of the Coffee
Quality Institute in  Long Beach ,  California . An increase would
lead to lower prices, he said in Arusha yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via the Johannesburg newsroom at 
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  