-- 
Thai Sugar Output May Reach Record as Yields Climb, Board Says

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-02-18T02:58:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/thai-sugar-output-may-reach-record-as-yields-climb-cane-board-forecasts.html
Sugar production from  Thailand , the
world’s second-largest shipper, may jump to a record this year
as wetter-than-average weather improves yields, potentially
raising exports, the  Office of the Cane & Sugar Board  said.  Output may surge to 7.7 million to 7.8 million metric tons
for the crop year from late November, Secretary-General Prasert Tapaneeyangkul said in an interview. That would be higher than
the record 7.28 million tons in 2002-2003, Prasert said late
yesterday. Production was 6.93 million tons last year.  A gain in Thai output may help the global sugar market
return to surplus for the first year in four and lower prices
even as other food costs soar.  Jonathan Kingsman , managing
director of the Switzerland-based broker Kingsman SA, has
forecast a global sugar surplus in the year from April 1.  “Higher production will definitely boost exports this year
to more than the 4.63 million tons shipped last year,” said
Prasert. The above-average rains brought by a La Nina weather
pattern “improved soil moisture after the country faced drought
for two consecutive years,” he said.  Raw sugar for May delivery fell 1.2 percent to 28.86 cents
a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  yesterday. The most-
active contract touched 36.08 cents on Feb. 2, the highest level
since 1980. Kingsman, who’s traded sugar for more than three
decades, has forecast that the October-delivery contract may
slump to 20 cents this year from yesterday’s 25.08 cents.  Rising Yields  Thai cane output in the crop year from late November may
jump to 74 million tons, with yields improving to 105 kilograms
per ton of cane from 101 last year, Prasert said. Since the
crushing season began, cane output has totaled 48.3 million tons.  About two-thirds of Thailand was affected late last year by
floods, which devastated rice fields and rubber estates and
contributed to higher farm-commodity prices. “Unlike  Australia ,
Thailand benefits from La Nina,” Prasert said.  Tropical Cyclone Yasi hit northern Queensland in Australia,
a region growing a third of the country’s cane, cutting output
potential in the area by about 50 percent, producers’ group
Canegrowers said on Feb. 4. That may keep exports from the
world’s third-biggest supplier next year at a two-decade low of
2.2 million tons in 2010, according to Queensland Sugar Ltd.  Estimates of Thai sugar exports will be completed after
authorities decide on the allocation for local consumption,
which currently stands at 2.5 million tons, Prasert said. “We
have to ensure domestic supplies are adequate before shipping
the sweetener overseas,” Prasert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  