-- 
Alaska Cites Court Ruling in Refusing Federal Health-Care Money

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-02-18T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/alaska-s-parnell-cites-court-ruling-in-refusing-federal-health-care-money.html
Alaska Governor Sean Parnell, saying
he’s bound by law, won’t apply for federal grants needed to
implement President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul after a
federal judge in  Florida  ruled it unconstitutional.  The Republican’s decision means the state will skip today’s
deadline to apply for a grant that federal officials say is
needed to develop exchanges where residents would be able to buy
medical insurance under the new health-care law.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act signed by
Obama in March requires citizens over 18 to obtain health
coverage beginning in 2014. U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson in  Pensacola , Florida, ruled that requiring such coverage exceeded
Congress’s power and invalidated the law last month. The
decision came in a challenge brought by 26 states, including
Alaska.  “We will not proceed down an unlawful course to implement
this law,” Parnell said yesterday in Juneau, the capital. “The
court’s declaratory judgment that the federal health-care law is
unconstitutional is the law of the land as it applies to  Alaska .”  Parnell has been governor since Sarah Palin quit in 2009
after her failed bid for U.S. vice president. He was lieutenant
governor under Palin. Republican governors  Rick Scott  of
Florida, Jan Brewer of  Arizona  and Rick Perry of  Texas  have said
the court ruling was grounds to stop implementing the law.  Florida, which applied for the grant even though it was
party to the lawsuit, won’t accept $1 million intended to help
it get ready, Insurance Commissioner Kevin McCarty said in a
letter to federal officials.  The Obama administration might sue Parnell to force him to
implement the law, said Adam Winkler, a law professor at the  University of California ,  Los Angeles .  ‘Political Theater’  “It’s political theater,” Winkler said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “States cannot decide that federal laws
don’t apply in their state. There’s a provision in the
Constitution that says federal law is supreme. So the state
cannot chose to ignore federal law or refuse to implement it.”  Three other federal judges in Virginia and  Michigan  have
issued decisions on the law, two affirming its legality and one
striking it down in part, paving the way for an appeals battle
that may ultimately be settled by the U.S. Supreme Court.  The actions of a single state won’t impede the Obama
administration as it carries out the law, said Gail Wilensky,
former administrator of the U.S. Health Care Financing
Administration.  Federal Backup  There is, “in some cases, federal backup activity that
will go into effect if the states don’t do their part,”
Wilensky, a senior fellow at the health-education foundation
Project Hope in Millwood,  Virginia , said by telephone yesterday.  Federal authorities may set up such systems in states that
don’t do it themselves, Wilensky said. The law requires states
to participate in an expansion of Medicaid, the joint federal-
state health program for the poor, by an estimated 16 million
people starting in 2014.  In a letter to Obama, 21 Republican governors said they
refuse to create exchanges unless U.S. officials gives them
“complete flexibility.” Parnell didn’t sign the Feb. 7 letter.  During testimony to the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee
on Feb. 16, Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius disputed complaints about the ability of states to
fine-tune the overhaul.  ‘Enormous Flexibility"  “There’s enormous flexibility” in the program, such as
the ability of states to determine which health-insurance
companies are permitted to sell plans on the exchanges, she
said.  “I’m working very closely with governors,” she said,
according to a transcript.  The Health and Human Services Department awarded $241
million in grants this week to assist Kansas, Maryland,  New
York , Oklahoma, Oregon, Wisconsin, and to a group of New England
states through the University of Massachusetts Medical School in
Worcester.    Jessica Santillo , a spokeswoman for the Health and Human
Services, didn’t respond to an e-mail requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  