-- 
Malaysian Growth at Decade High Puts Pressure to Tighten Policy

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-02-18T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/malaysia-economy-grows-fastest-in-decade-adding-pressure-for-higher-rates.html
  Malaysia ’s economy expanded 4.8
percent last quarter, spurring full-year growth to the quickest
pace in a decade and putting pressure on the central bank to
take more steps to curb inflation.  Gross domestic product expanded for a fifth consecutive
quarter even as exports eased, the central bank said in a
statement yesterday. The gain was more than the 4.6 percent
median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
economy grew 7.2 percent last year, the most since 2000.  Malaysia’s government expects growth this year to hold near
the 2010 level, an expansion that may prompt the central bank to
tighten its monetary policy. Nations from  Indonesia  to  China 
have boosted  interest rates  this year, and the  International
Monetary Fund  says the region may need to raise borrowing costs
further to limit the risk of overheating.  “Despite the orderly deceleration in growth, the solid
contribution from investment and consumption should continue to
buoy domestic demand,” Chandara Lim, an economist at Moody’s
Analytics in Sydney, said before the report. “Though interest
rates have remained on hold, the central bank could raise rates
at its next policy meeting to curb rising inflation pressures.”  Asia’s recovery from the 2009 global recession eased toward
the end of last year as the European sovereign-debt crisis and
U.S. unemployment damped the outlook for exports.  “This performance is better than expected and should carry
through into the first quarter of this year,” said Wan Suhaimi Saidi, an economist at Kenanga Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala
Lumpur . “It’s leaning toward the top-end of my growth
forecast.”  ‘Commodity Bonanza’  Prime Minister Najib Razak, who plans to boost growth by
attracting investment, forecasts the economy will expand as much
as 6 percent this year. Malaysia, the world’s second-largest
palm oil producer behind Indonesia, is also benefiting from
higher commodity prices.  Surging palm oil and rubber prices may create a “commodity
bonanza” that will benefit Malaysian banks, builders and
property stocks, according to Credit Suisse Group AG analyst
Stephen Hagger. Malaysia’s growth has lured funds and investment
and pushed the ringgit up more than 11 percent against the
dollar in the past year.  The ringgit, the best performing currency in  Asia  in the
past year, was at 3.0340 per dollar as of 5:20 p.m. local time
yesterday. The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index closed
0.6 percent higher ahead of the growth announcement.  Financial Imbalances  Bank Negara Malaysia Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz increased
the benchmark overnight policy rate by 0.75 percentage point
from March to July last year to reduce what the central bank
said was the risk of financial imbalances that may be caused by
keeping borrowing costs too low for too long.    Vietnam  on Feb. 17 joined countries from China to India and
Indonesia in raising rates this year as the region’s growth and
rising global commodity prices boost inflationary pressures.
Stocks and bonds across Asia have declined this year amid
concern that accelerating price gains will erode purchasing
power and spur further tightening.  Malaysia’s benchmark rate of 2.75 percent has been left
unchanged at the past three meetings, most recently in January
when the central bank signaled it may use other monetary policy
tools to manage excess cash that’s building up in the financial
system.  The policy stance is “appropriate and consistent” with
the current assessment of growth and inflation prospects, the
central bank said last month. While the inflation rate rose to a
19-month high of 2.2 percent in December after the government
reduced subsidies on fuel and sugar, price gains are still among
the slowest in Asia.  Commodities Inflation  “Inflation will creep higher on higher food and fuel-
related prices in early 2011 but still remain manageable,” said
Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. “The last round of fuel and sugar subsidy cuts
in December was relatively small. The next round of subsidy cuts
may have to be larger and occur before mid-2011 given soaring
global  oil prices .”  Malaysia’s manufacturing industry grew 6.2 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, and exports of goods and
services gained 1.5 percent, according to yesterday’s report.  Najib’s government unveiled an economic transformation
program in September aimed at attracting investment, including
$444 billion of projects from mass rail to nuclear power
involving companies such as Dialog Group Bhd. and IOI Corp.  Factory Investment  Approved factory investment surged 44.8 percent in 2010 as
a recovery in the global economy prompted companies to announce
new projects and spurred a 13.5 percent expansion in the
country’s manufacturing industry, the government said last
month.  Investment as measured by gross fixed capital formation
advanced 9.2 percent last quarter, while the  construction
industry  grew 5.6 percent, the central bank said yesterday.  “Growth is a tad higher than expected, indicating how the
economy has recovered well cyclically from the global
slowdown,” Wellian Wiranto, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc
in  Singapore , said in a note yesterday. The data may not prompt
an interest-rate increase, though “they might start to
normalize reserve requirement ratios soon as they have guided
previously,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  