-- 
Ambac Gets Four-Month Extension as Judge Calls Disputes ‘Ugly’

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-02-18T23:18:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/ambac-gets-four-month-extension-as-judge-calls-disputes-ugly-.html
  Ambac Financial Group Inc ., the
bankrupt holding company for a failed bond insurer, won a four-
month extension of its time to reorganize after a judge called
disputes in the case “ugly” and ordered mediation of a tax
dispute between Ambac and the U.S.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman denied Ambac
Financial’s request for a six-month extension of its control
over a reorganization in  Manhattan  bankruptcy court today.
During a seven-hour hearing as creditors disputed the extension,
Ambac Chief Executive David W. Wallis testified that if
creditors get their way with tax benefits, it could further harm
both the companies and holders of municipal debt.  Creditors said Ambac could run out of money if it gets too
much time to reorganize, and accused company executives of
having a conflict of interest.  “I’ve never heard of another case where there’s such a
long, full bore, all-out ugly hearing,” over a company’s right
to control its bankruptcy, Chapman said, calling the case a
“hit parade of complexity” for its disputes among creditors,
the bankrupt holding company, Wisconsin regulators overseeing
its operating unit, and the  Internal Revenue Service .  Her ruling will gives Ambac until early July to file a
Chapter 11 plan.  Since Ambac Financial filed for bankruptcy, it’s been in
dispute with all constituents, including its operating unit,
Ambac Assurance Corp., over who gets $7.3 billion in net
operating losses to use for tax benefits. The IRS has also
challenged claims by both companies to tax benefits.  Sword of Damocles  Creditors committee lawyer Anthony Princi told Chapman that
the case could convert to a Chapter 7 liquidation if Ambac
doesn’t file a plan sooner than in six months.  “You are waving an enormous sword of Damocles,” Chapman
told Princi. “A Chapter 7 won’t happen in this court, you heard
it here first.”  Stefan Feuerabendt, a managing director at Ambac’s
financial adviser Blackstone Advisory Partners LP also testified
today that Wisconsin regulators have a proposed resolution of
disputes between the operating company and the holding company
that could involve some cash payments to Ambac Financial.  Separately, Chapman ordered mediation with the IRS after
hearing from lawyers for the U.S. that a Wisconsin district
court lawyer had dismissed a lawsuit brought by the IRS. U.S.
lawyer Ellen London said the U.S. would appeal that ruling.  Muni Debt  Ambac Assurance was the second-largest bond insurer before
the 2008 financial crisis, when mounting defaults on mortgages
swamped the company with claims. It guaranteed around $256
billion of $1.4 trillion in insured municipal debt, according to
Bloomberg data. Its bankruptcy, filed Nov. 8, listed liabilities
of $1.68 billion.  Wisconsin’s insurance commission, known as OCI, is
overseeing the rehabilitation of $50 billion in policies
insuring mortgage-backed securities held by Ambac Assurance.
Commissioner  Sean Dilweg  in March 2010 created a segregated
account that isolated the worst subprime assets from the rest of
the insurer’s business, which was kept out of rehabilitation
proceedings.  Creditors alleged in court papers that Ambac could file a
reorganization plan today, but is held back by conflicts of
interest.  Wallis, issued a subpoena by creditors, testified that if
creditors get their request to reorganize by taking all of Ambac
Assurance’s $7.3 billion in net operating losses for tax
benefits, both companies would suffer.  Receivership  “If all NOLS were to be extricated from AAC, AAC starts
paying tax, and that would be to the detriment of policy holders
and I think our regulator would be unhappy with that,” Wallis
testified. Wisconsin regulators would likely put all of Ambac
Assurance, not just its segregated account, into receivership,
he said, which would in turn hurt Ambac Financial and holders of
insurance for municipal debt.  Princi said the action isn’t likely as it would be too
detrimental to the policy holders that Wisconsin regulators want
to protect.  Creditors alleged the only reason Ambac Financial doesn’t
now file a Chapter 11 plan is that the two companies are
conflicted by sharing the same eight directors, which are only
paid by Ambac Assurance, as a way to circumvent bankruptcy court
scrutiny, creditors said in court papers.  “The debtor has avoided the scrutiny by this court of the
appropriateness of the payment of these bonuses, by purposefully
not making an application for approval to make such payments,”
lawyers for creditors wrote.  Investments  Feuerabendt said in court documents that the company had
cash and bond investments worth $70.4 million as of the end of
2010, enough to afford a six-month extension. The company needs
to get the consent of OCI to the bankruptcy in order to get
post-bankrupt payments from its Ambac Assurance unit,
Feuerabendt said.  He declined to testify about specifics of OCI’s offer, and
said that the amount of a cash payment “would be better than
numbers I described in my affidavit.”  The creditors committee includes The Bank of New York
Mellon, as an indentured trustee, Law Debenture Trust Co. of  New
York , Halcyon Master Fund LP, ValueWorks LLC and One State
Street LLC, according to court papers.  The holding company case is In re  Ambac Financial Group
Inc ., 10-15973,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 