-- 
Anglo American Beats Profit Forecasts, May Spend $70 Billion on Production

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-02-18T17:03:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/anglo-american-profit-jumps-by-93-as-commodities-climb-out-of-2008-slump.html
  Anglo American Plc , part-owner of
the world’s biggest platinum and diamond producers, almost
doubled 2010 profit to beat analyst estimates and may spend $70
billion on production to meet rising demand for metals.  The outlook for Anglo’s metals is “extremely positive,”
Cynthia Carroll, chief executive officer of the London-based
company, said today in a statement. Anglo has the potential to
double production over the next decade through a “$70 billion
pipeline of more than 60 projects,” she said.  Underlying earnings climbed to $4.13 a share from $2.14 a
share a year earlier, beating the $4-a-share median estimate of
22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Mining companies are accelerating expansion plans to meet
rising Asian demand for raw materials. Anglo has sold off paper,
zinc and sugar assets as it builds  iron ore , copper and nickel
mines in  South America  to benefit from soaring prices for the
minerals most in demand in  China  and  India . It also agreed today
to combine its U.K. construction units with those of Lafarge SA.  The price of iron ore imports to China, the world’s largest
consumer of the steelmaking ingredient, jumped 70 percent last
year, while copper gained 45 percent in London. Anglo’s platinum
prices climbed 34 percent and nickel rose 48 percent, it said.  ‘Stingy’ Dividend  Anglo will pay a dividend of $0.40 a share after missing
payments the previous year. Rio Tinto Group, the third-largest
mining company, last week announced a 40 percent increase in its
dividend payout along with a $5 billion share buyback program.  Anglo’s dividend is lower than estimated, JPMorgan Cazenove
said in a note, adding that “somewhat disappointingly there was
no return of capital.” Liberum Capital said the “slightly
stingy” payout may be the result of an “increased commitment
to organic growth.” UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG said the
dividend exceeded their $0.35 and $0.30 estimates, respectively.  While Anglo will distribute any surplus cash to
shareholders, it plans to focus on project investment rather
than dividends, Carroll told investors in  London  today.  Anglo declined 68.5 pence, or 2.1 percent, to 3,227 pence
by the 4:30 p.m. close of London trading. Rio fell 2.3 percent
and BHP Billiton Ltd. dropped 2.2 percent.  Barro Alto, Bronces  “We’ve got a fantastic project pipeline,” Carroll said
today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move”
with  Francine Lacqua . “We’re bringing a project on line every
six to nine months.” Anglo plans to start operating its
Brazilian Barro Alto nickel mine in March and its Los Bronces
copper project in  Chile  in the fourth quarter.  Larger competitor BHP said Feb. 16 it plans to spend $80
billion to expand and dig mines and develop oilfields.  “Anglo currently offers the strongest near-term volume
growth of the large-cap diversifieds,” UBS said in a note.
Credit Suisse said it expects Anglo to outperform its peers in
2011/12, in part because of production growth.  The company said today it would combine its Tarmac unit
with Lafarge’s U.K. building-material operations to create a
business with 1.8 billion pounds ($2.9 billion) of sales and
better able to withstand Britain’s struggling construction
industry. Anglo said it saved $3 billion from efficiencies in
2010, compared with a target of $2 billion.  Quellaveco Delay  Anglo has restarted operations at all its Australian
steelmaking coal mines after floods, and plans to resume full
output in the second half, Carroll told investors. Approval of
the Quellaveco copper project in  Peru  has been delayed as Anglo
seeks adequate water supplies and community support, she said.  Anglo owns 79 percent of  Anglo Platinum Ltd . and 45 percent
of diamond producer De Beers, both of which said last week they
resumed idled operations as prices rose. Anglo doesn’t plan to
change the ownership structure of  De Beers , Carroll said on a
conference call today.  The London-based Sunday Times reported in December that
Anglo may buy the Oppenheimer family out of the diamond company
for at least 2 billion pounds.  Carroll also said dividing Anglo’s South African assets
from units elsewhere is “not on the agenda.” Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said last year that Anglo may separate South
African assets as the country’s business environment worsens.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd ., the third-largest gold miner, said
yesterday it’s not considering such a plan immediately.  Analysts that track Anglo American use underlying earnings,
excluding special items and “remeasurements” that include some
currency gains and losses, to assess performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  