-- 
Anglo American, Lafarge Plan $2.9 Billion U.K. Cement-Making Partnership

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   F r a n c o i s   D e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-02-18T20:25:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/anglo-lafarge-combine-u-k-cement-aggregates-units-update2-.html
  Anglo American Plc  and  Lafarge SA 
plan to combine U.K. building-material operations, creating a
business with 1.8 billion pounds ($2.9 billion) in sales aimed
at withstanding a decline in Britain’s construction industry.  The creation of the equally owned venture, which will
absorb Anglo’s Tarmac unit in the U.K., will generate annual
cost savings of at least 60 million pounds, the companies said
today in a joint statement.  The transaction is a stop-gap move for London-based Anglo
American, which is seeking to exit the materials business. An
outright disposal would have been feasible only if the
construction market were expanding, Anglo Chief Executive
Officer Cynthia Carroll said today. The copper- and iron-ore
miner already sold Tarmac’s French and Belgian building-
materials operations last year.  “A sale would have required waiting for the cycle to
recover,” Carroll said on a conference call today. “We don’t
believe that this would be in shareholders’ best interest.”  The combined business will compete against Dublin-based  CRH
Plc , HeidelbergCement AG’s Hanson brand and smaller companies
such as Breedon Aggregates Ltd. The merger requires the approval
of U.K. competition authorities.  Lafarge Chief Executive Officer Bruno Lafont said the
Paris-based cement maker, the world’s biggest, has “done the
necessary work,” and that the company remains “completely
open” to any suggestions by regulators.  “There can be some conditions put by the authorities,”
Lafont said at a press conference today. “We will look at them
when they arise.”  Cement-Market Outlook  The U.K. cement market may be stable “at a very low level
in 2011,” though it will pick up in the future because of
housing needs, Lafont said. Government austerity measures “tend
to reassure private investors” in the medium term, even as they
may have “a slightly negative impact in the short term.”  The U.K. transaction is likely to be completed by the end
of this year, Lafont said in a Bloomberg television interview.
“There might be some divestments or some limitations. We
believe that most of it is feasible.”  The merger will combine 156 quarries for aggregates, six
cement plants and 280 fixed plants for ready-mix concrete, and
create a workforce exceeding 7,000 employees, with 2,800 people
at Lafarge’s U.K. operations and 4,500 at Tarmac.  “We don’t know how much jobs will be impacted, but I think
it will be limited,” Lafont said. “Our goal is to grow this
company and to use this recession time to create value,” with
savings coming from combining logistics and procurement and
additional sales from new products.  ‘Attractive’  “The transaction appears attractive,” Virginie Rousseau,
a Paris-based analyst at Oddo Securities with a “reduce”
recommendation on Lafarge stock, said today in a report. “The
creation of a joint venture in a key market could constitute a
risk in the medium term.”  Anglo American’s objective remains to divest its interests
in the joint venture over time, the company said. Anglo has been
selling assets such as paper and sugar production in the past 10
years to focus on raw materials including  iron ore  and copper
needed by expanding Asian economies.  For Lafarge, the combination is cash neutral, the French
company said. Lafarge said separately today that it’s
accelerating cost reductions and cutting the dividend by half to
protect its investment-grade  credit rating . It plans 750 million
euros ($1.02 billion) in  divestments  in 2011. Capital
expenditure will be reduced by 400 million euros.  Evercore Partners Inc. is advising Lafarge on the
transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  