-- 
Apple’s IPad Rivalry May Ward Off Antitrust Probes, EU Says

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-02-18T14:06:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/apple-s-ipad-rivalry-may-ward-off-antitrust-probes-eu-says.html
  Apple Inc .’s growing competition
from  Google Inc . and tablet makers may shield it from possible
antitrust concerns over its iPad newspaper subscriptions
services, said European Union regulators.  The European Commission, which probes alleged abuses of
monopoly power in the 27-nation region, said it couldn’t judge
whether Apple has a dominant position because the tablet market
is “relatively new and evolving.”  “Alternative applications platforms exist and several
companies have recently launched or are expected to launch in
the near future a number of devices similar in terms of
functionality to the iPad,” Andris Piebalgs, an EU
commissioner, wrote in a response dated Feb. 11 to questions
from a Belgian member of the European Parliament.  Apple said on Feb. 15 it was starting a subscription
service for publishers to sell newspapers and magazines on the
iPad and other devices through the company’s online App Store.
It will take a 30 percent cut of any subscription purchased
through the App Store. Publishers that participate will have to
offer their lowest subscription rates within Apple’s store.  The following day, Google unveiled a rival service in which
the company would keep 10 percent of fees charged by publishers.
It will run on tablet computers made by  HTC Corp ., Samsung
Electronics Co. and others, running Google’s Android operating
system.  Belgian lawmakers have made antitrust complaints about
Cupertino, California-based Apple after  European newspapers 
raised  concerns  over changes to its iPad subscriptions policy.  Apple’s App Store offers more than 350,000 applications to
users of the iPhone, iPod and iPad, according to the company.
About $1.1 billion of applications were sold through the App
Store in 2010, making Apple’s revenue share about $317 million,
according to estimates from  Brian Marshall , an analyst at
Gleacher & Co. in  San Francisco .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 