-- 
Yemen Protests Kill Four in Largest Demonstration of Eight Days of Unrest

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-02-18T19:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/largest-yemen-protests-to-date-turn-violent-as-security-forces-crack-down.html
Gunfire broke out in the Yemeni
capital and at least four people were killed as security forces
attacked protesters gathered for the largest of eight days of
anti-government demonstrations.  Police swinging batons and government supporters hurling
rocks were seen attacking demonstrators near Sanaa University.
One man was killed after a hand grenade was thrown into a crowd
of anti-government protesters in the city of Taiz near the  Red
Sea , al-Jazeera reported.  More than 20,000 people streamed out of Friday prayers and
began to march on the presidential palace in what was billed a
“Friday of Fury,” demanding that President Ali Abdullah Saleh
step down after 32 years in power.  “After Mubarak, Ali,” they chanted. Eighteen days of
anti-government protests in  Egypt  forced President  Hosni Mubarak 
to resign a week ago, ending his 30-year rule.  The crowds in Yemen were the largest so far, overwhelming
police who were trying to contain them within the vicinity of
the university by blocking roads and forming human walls.  Protests were also reported in Aden, Yemen’s Red Sea port
city, where people set fire to a council building and a police
station. Thousands are demonstrating in Taiz, Salah al-Dakak, a
protest organizer, said in a phone interview.  ‘Disturbing’ Protest  The Interior Ministry denied a statement that undercover
security officials are leading pro-government rallies and
attacking protesters.  The U.S. Embassy in Sanaa called the rise in violence today
“disturbing,” saying it contradicted promises Saleh made to
allow peaceful demonstrations.  “We have seen reports that government of Yemen officials
were present during these attacks,” the embassy said in an e-
mailed statement. “The attacks are contrary to the commitments
that President Saleh made to protect the right of Yemeni
citizens to gather peacefully to express their views.”  Saleh said on Feb. 2 that he won’t seek to extend his term
when it expires in 2013 and that his son wouldn’t succeed him as
president.  At least 20 people were injured in violent clashes
yesterday and “a number” of people have been killed since
demonstrations began, state-run Saba news agency said yesterday
without giving further details.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 