-- 
Marvin Miller Says NFL's `Company Union' Needs to Play Offense in Talks

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-02-18T14:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/marvin-miller-says-nfl-s-company-union-needs-to-play-offense-in-talks.html
Marvin Miller says the  National
Football League ’s union needs to play more offense.  The 93-year-old Miller, who from 1966 to 1982 led baseball
players through three strikes and two lockouts as their salaries
rose 12-fold, said the NFL Players Association needs to stop
placating owners. The union should march into the NFL’s Park
Avenue offices in New York and demand concessions, including an
end to the league’s pay ceiling, as part of talks on a new labor
deal.  “I would go on the offensive,” Miller said in a telephone
interview from his apartment on the Upper East Side of
Manhattan. “I would demand the end of the salary cap now and in
the future and go from there. You’ve got to show the owners you
mean it. I’d follow it immediately with a series of meetings
with players to work out their demands for changes in their
contracts. And I’d serve them to the owners. I’d show them
you’re not kidding.”  Owners in the U.S.’s most-watched television sport voted in
2008 to opt out of the labor deal with players this year, saying
it didn’t account for costs such as building stadiums. Other
issues include what share of revenue players should get,
expanding the season to 18 games from 16, a rookie pay cap and
health care.  Miller said the union has been too league-friendly and has
failed retired players, echoing criticism from former players
and coaches including Hall of Fame member Mike Ditka. Miller
said he’s still waiting to evaluate the performance of  DeMaurice Smith , 47, who took over as executive director of the union two
years ago.  George Atallah, a union spokesman, said the players just
want a fair deal. “Today’s NFL Players Association is
interested in vehemently protecting players’ rights, but also
securing the future business of our game,” he said.  Seeking Documents  Smith has asked owners to provide financial documents
showing the need for a new agreement, since the league set
television audience and revenue records last year, and accused
them of preparing to lock out players when the deal expires
March 3.  NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell has said the players and
owners should be partners in the growth of football. Miller has
a simple answer to that.  “They’re not partners,” he said. “Come on.”  Miller, whom historian Studs Terkel called “the most
effective union organizer since John L. Lewis,” was born in New
York, graduated from  New York University  in 1938 and worked
during World War II at the National War Labor Board. By the mid-
1960s, he’d risen to chief economist for the  United
Steelworkers , then the nation’s third-largest union.  Baseball Free Agency  When Miller accepted a job as the first executive director
of the  Major League Baseball Players Association  in 1966, the
average player salary was $19,000 a year and players could
change teams only if traded or released. By the time he retired
in 1992, the average salary was $241,497 and players could
become free agents.  Bob Bruno, a professor at the  University of Illinois ’s
School of Labor & Employment Relations, said Miller’s
stewardship gave baseball players “probably the strongest union
in the U.S.” In contrast, he said, the NFL union has over the
years agreed to cap its workers’ pay, failed to secure
guaranteed contracts, and tolerated short careers and inadequate
health care while ignoring the needs of retirees.  “DeMaurice Smith has an idea of building a collective
mentality, but it’s not something I think has a strong history
in the NFL players union,” Bruno said. “When there’s so much
money to be made, it’s not hard to walk away with an agreement
that overlooks strong institution building or creating a sense
of solidarity.”  ‘Company Union’  Miller said his union didn’t get powerful by considering
itself partners with owners. He said that when the NFL union
agreed to a salary cap in exchange for free agency, for example,
it betrayed its members. Miller called that concession the most
significant in a series marking the NFL Players Association as a
“company union.”  “There’s never been a bona fide union in football,”
Miller said. “It’s a new leadership. They should explain very
carefully that no union can carry out its job by agreeing to a
salary cap. A union is there to improve the wages, hours and
working conditions of employees.”  Miller said Gene Upshaw, the Hall of Fame former player who
led the union for 25 years until he died in 2008, was too close
to management and got paid too much to be an effective advocate
for workers. Upshaw helped secure free agency for NFL players
and increased the average salary almost 20-fold in his tenure.  “That was only done because of the way the industry viewed
him -- as an ally,” Miller said.  Leaders’ Salaries  Upshaw’s annual compensation was about $6.6 million during
his last full year in charge, according to the union’s tax
filing. Smith earned about $1.8 million --about the average NFL
salary -- in pay and disbursements in the year ended February
2010, according to union documents filed with the U.S.
Department of Labor.  Richard Trumka , president of the 12
million-member AFL-CIO labor federation, was paid about
$283,000.  Miller criticized the NFL union’s new leadership for moving
too slowly on legal challenges to owners. The union should have
filed a complaint against owners with the National Labor
Relations Board months ago, he said. Owners filed a complaint
against the union with the board this week.  “You can’t have everything and its opposite,” Miller
said. “If the situation calls for strength and a militant
stand, you can’t say, ‘That’s not my mindset, my approach, my
way of doing things.’”  ‘A Revolution’  In 1981, baseball owners wanted to get rid of free agency
and some players didn’t want to strike, Miller said. He held a
meeting and told them, “This was a revolution and now they want
you to hand it back.” He told players that owners depreciated
them like machinery or cattle on tax returns. And he told them
that he’d quit if they didn’t stand together.  “Not only did they hold together for 50 days, and in a
seasonal industry, that’s like 100 days in terms of loss of pay,
they made one decision after another that would only affect
future players,” he said. “The owners made a bold attempt to
divide the players, to get them to say to themselves, ‘Why am I
striking? This isn’t going to affect me. I only have a year or
two on my contract.’ They understood when it was explained, and
they were indignant.”  ‘About to Fold’  Miller said he knows that Smith has a tough job ahead. The
average NFL career is about 3 1/2 years. Keeping the union’s
1,900 members informed should be Smith’s first priority, because
when players say they don’t know what’s going on, he said,
“That’s a typical sign of someone who’s about to fold.”  “Unfortunately, players are impacted by the people they
know,” he said. “There are wives, neighbors, friends who say,
‘What’s wrong with you? Look at the pay you’re getting.’ There
were people who said that when the top pay in baseball was a
tiny fraction of what it is today. You can’t pay attention to
people who don’t know what they’re talking about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  