-- 
Asia Stocks Rebounded This Week on Economic Growth Outlook, Profit Reports

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-02-18T22:34:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/asia-stocks-rebounded-this-week-on-economic-growth-outlook-profit-reports.html
Asian stocks rebounded this week
after U.S. and Japanese central banks raised their growth
outlooks and companies posted better-than-estimated earnings,
boosting confidence in the global recovery.    Toshiba Corp . and Elpida Memory Inc. rallied more than 3
percent in Tokyo after  Dell Inc ., the world’s third-largest
personal-computer maker, reported profit that topped forecasts.  Qantas Airways Ltd . jumped 6.3 percent after Australia’s biggest
airline quadrupled net income.  AMP Ltd . rose 4.3 percent as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended the asset manager citing
“solid” earnings results.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 3 percent to 139.85 in
the past five days, led by gains in energy, technology and
finance shares. The index last week dropped by the most since
August as  China  raised borrowing costs and anti-government
protests intensified in Egypt, eventually forcing President  Hosni Mubarak  to resign.  “Economic sentiment is improving and that is supporting
the stock market,” said Tokyo-based Mitsushige Akino, who
oversees about $450 million at Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co. “Investors expecting stocks to rise further are
increasing” because of positive economic data and strong
earnings.  Federal Reserve policy makers also took a more optimistic
view this week, raising their 2011 gross domestic product
forecasts as they pressed forward with an expansion of record
monetary stimulus.    Bank of Japan   The Bank of Japan raised its economic assessment of the
country for the first time in nine months as GDP shrank less
than estimated. This prompted Nomura Holdings Inc. to lift its
growth outlook saying it now expects the economy “to emerge
from its lull sooner than previously thought.”  The benchmark  Nikkei 225  Stock Average gained 2.2 percent
this week, while Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index increased 1.1
percent. Taiwan Taiex jumped 2.7 percent after the island’s
economy also recorded better-than-estimated GDP numbers in the
fourth quarter.  In China, the Shanghai Composite Index increased 2.7
percent and  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index rose 3.3 percent. Gains
were limited after data showed the Chinese inflation rate
exceeded the government’s target for a fourth month.  Toshiba jumped 5.7 percent to 538 yen in Tokyo as U.S.
rival Dell reported fourth-quarter results. Elpida, Japan’s
biggest maker of computer memory chips, increased 3.5 percent to
1,286 yen.  Toshiba, the world’s second-biggest maker of  flash memory ,
also rose this week after analysts at Nikko Cordial Securities
Inc. and CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets recommended the shares.  Qantas Shares  Qantas surged 6.3 percent to A$2.54 after the airline
reported a jump in first half net profit to A$241 million ($242
million). The company said earnings for the full year will be
“materially stronger” without providing a specific forecast.
The airline also predicted a pickup in business travel.  AMP climbed 4.3 percent to A$5.60 after Goldman Sachs
upgraded  Australia ’s second-largest asset manager to “buy”
from “hold.”  The company this week reported second-half
profit of A$350 million.  Santos Ltd. gained 3.2 percent to A$14.24. The oil and gas
producer reported a 15 percent increase in full-year net income
and said new projects starting output this year may increase
production by 20 percent.  Of the 464 companies in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
have reported results since Jan. 1 for the latest quarter, 181
have exceeded analysts’ estimates, while 143 have missed them,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Decision Making  Toyota Motor Corp. also advanced this week, climbing 2.9
percent to 3,885 yen. The carmaker is planning to cut its board
to at least 17 members from the current 27 to improve decision
making after a series of product recalls, according to two
people familiar with the plans. It would be the biggest
management reorganization in eight years.    ASX Ltd . rose 1.6 percent to A$38.80. Singapore Exchange
Ltd., pursuing a A$7.78 billion takeover of the exchange
operator, offered to give more board seats to Australians in a
bid to overcome opposition to the deal from lawmakers in
Canberra.  Singapore Exchange  rose 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in Sydney at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 