-- 
Treasuries Fall on Inflation Concern; Stocks, Oil Advance

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-02-18T21:12:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/asia-stocks-won-gain-on-growth-outlook-treasuries-drop-on-inflation-risk.html
Treasuries fell and the euro
rebounded from an early drop as a European Central Bank official
said the bank may need to boost  interest rates  as inflation
pressures grow. U.S. stocks and oil advanced.  Yields on 10-year U.S. notes rose two basis points to 3.60
percent at 4 p.m. in New York.  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield
added seven basis points, and the euro rose 0.6 percent versus
the dollar, erasing earlier declines. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index climbed 0.2 percent to 1,343.01, a 32-month high, capping
a third weekly gain. The cost of insuring Bahrain’s debt
increased. Oil rose 1.8 percent before paring its gain.    U.S. government debt  extended declines and the euro
reversed its earlier loss as the ECB’s Bini Smaghi said monetary
policy “has to be monitored, and if needed, corrected.”
China’s central bank raised  reserve requirements  for lenders for
the second time this year to counter inflation and curb
property-price gains. German producer prices increased at the
fastest pace in more than two years, a day after the U.S.
consumer price index topped estimates.  “Yes, inflation will be a dominant theme,” said Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages $53 billion. “The
bigger picture here is to what degree China is able to tame
inflation without throwing its economy into a hard landing,” he
said. “I’m also keeping an eye on Treasury prices because of
all the inflation concern. At this level, it’s not something
that will derail the equity market, but it’s something that
should be watched carefully.”  Treasury Yields  Thirty-year yields increased one basis point to 4.69
percent. The difference between yields on two-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, which tracks the
outlook for consumer prices over the life of the debt, increased
above 2 percentage points for the first time since July 2008.  The  Federal Reserve  bought $6.7 billion of Treasuries
maturing from January 2014 to October 2014 today as part of its
efforts to sustain the economic expansion. The Treasury plans to
sell $99 billion of debt next week.  Energy and consumer-discretionary companies had the biggest
gains among 10 groups in the  S&P 500 , while technology and raw-
materials producers fell the most.  Brocade Communications Systems Inc. and Intuit Inc.
advanced at least 6 percent after both companies forecast
earnings that topped analysts’ estimates. Campbell Soup Co.
retreated 3.9 percent as the world’s largest soupmaker reduced
its projections for 2011 profit and sales.  98 Percent Rally  The S&P 500 closed at the highest level since June 17,
2008, and extended its rebound from a 12-year low in March 2009
to almost 99 percent. Per-share earnings have topped analysts’
estimates at about three-quarters of the 395 companies in the
S&P 500 that have released results since Jan. 10, Bloomberg data
show. U.S. markets will be closed for a three-day weekend for
the President’s Day holiday.  Group of 20 policy makers meeting today in Paris will
confront inflation as they seek ways to sustain the global
recovery. Reserve ratios for Chinese banks will increase half a
percentage point starting Feb. 24, the People’s Bank of China
said on its website today.  China  raised interest rates 10 days
ago.  “This is just the start from China and they will continue
tightening lending and raising interest rates, doing their
utmost to contain this,” said Philippe Gijsels, the Brussels-
based head of research at BNP Paribas Fortis Global Markets.
“If the Chinese start to take out the liquidity that’s been so
important, it’s got the potential to be a disturbance for the
world’s stock markets.”  Cost of Living  The cost of living in the U.S. rose more than forecast in
January, with the so-called core rate, which excludes food and
fuel costs, having the biggest gain since October 2009, a report
showed yesterday.  The euro gained against 15 of its 16 major counterparts,
strengthening 0.7 percent against  Brazil ’s real and 0.8 percent
versus the Canadian dollar. The  U.S. dollar  weakened against 13
of 16 peers.  Commodity-price increases will “have an unavoidable
impact” and “it is a key challenge for monetary policy to
avoid spillovers and maintain inflation expectations in check,”
the ECB’s Smaghi said in an interview with daily newsletter
Bloomberg Brief: Economics. “This requires the ability to take
pre-emptive actions if needed.”  British Gilts  European shares slipped, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
down less than 0.1 percent. TomTom NV sank 11 percent after the
region’s biggest maker of portable navigation devices forecast
“broadly flat” sales and earnings this year. Rentokil Initial
Plc tumbled 5.6 percent after posting a loss.  Credit-default swaps on  Bahrain  climbed 11 basis points to
297, the highest since 2009, according to CMA in  London . Yields
on the country’s dollar bonds due 2020 increased for a ninth
day, rising 11 basis points to a record 6.63 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bahrain’s security forces attacked protesters for a second
day and doctors in the capital treated bullet wounds and broken
bones as the mostly Shiite Muslim demonstrators urged the
government’s ouster. Bahrain won’t default “even in the worst
case scenario” because other members of the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council will come to its aid, according to Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  ‘No Risk of Default’  “There is no risk of default in Bahrain,” said Raza Agha,
an emerging-markets strategist at RBS in London.  Swaps on  Saudi Arabia , used as a measure of confidence in
the country although they reference no debt, jumped 13.5 basis
points to 140, also the highest since 2009, according to CMA.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1 percent to the
highest level on a closing basis since Feb. 8. Asian equities
led the advance after a report showed  Taiwan ’s economy expanded
more than analysts estimated. The Taiex Index of shares traded
in Taipei climbed 1.8 percent, the most since Sept. 13.  Brazil’s Bovespa stock index rose for a third day, climbing
0.6 percent and capping a 3.5 percent weekly gain, its biggest
since July, on speculation the government will contain
inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  