-- 
Italian Stocks Decline; L'Espresso, Lottomatica, Snam, Stefanel, STM Move

-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 
2011-02-18T16:53:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/atlantia-edison-snam-stefanel-terna-italian-equity-preview.html
Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index 
dropped 119.35, or 0.5 percent, to 23,059.03 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Milan, ending a three-day gain. The gauge increased 1.6
percent this week.  The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.    Astaldi SpA  (AST IM) increased 2.7 percent to 5.81 euros, a
fifth straight gain. Mediobanca Securities reiterated an
“outperform” rating on Italy’s second-biggest builder, saying
in a note that “our call on the stock is based on the
undervaluation of the construction business together with the
increasing visibility on concessions which could lead the market
to gradually factor in the projected contribution of these
activities to the share price.”    Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  (BMPS IM) slid 1.2
percent to 1 euro, falling for the first time in four days. The
lender isn’t working on any capital increase, a spokesman said
by phone. The bank hasn’t hired any banks on a share sale, the
spokesman added, commenting on a press report that banks are
working on a possible capital increase by the Italian lender.    Gruppo Editoriale L’Espresso SpA  (ES IM) increased 3.7
percent to 1.9 euros, ending a three-day loss. Exane BNP Paribas
lifted its price estimate on the publisher by 9 percent to 2.5
euros with an “outperform” rating unchanged.  Fiat SpA (F IM) fell 1.7 percent to 7.08 euros, declining
for a second day this week. OAO Sollers, Russia’s second-biggest
automaker, said it will create a joint venture with Ford Motor
Co. to distribute cars in Russia after breaking off talks with  Fiat SpA  over a 2.4 billion-euro ($3.3 billion) deal.    Impregilo SpA  (IPG IM) climbed 4.5 percent to 2.46 euros.
The Italian government will seek a European Union waiver to
directly award EU building contracts in the country’s south and
boost its underdeveloped economy, Il Sole 24 Ore reported,
citing Finance Ministry officials.  The government will include its request in a growth plan to
be presented to the European Commission in April, the Milan-
based newspaper said. Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti told
reporters in Brussels on Feb. 15 that Italy would ask for the
waiver, saying that it was difficult to apply free-market rules
to the south and the central government should play a more
direct role in infrastructure projects there.    Intesa Sanpaolo SpA  (ISP IM), the country’s second-biggest
bank, lost 1.9 percent to 2.53 euros. Evolution Securities
downgraded the stock to “sell” from “buy,” highlighting that
“the stock has largely outperformed on a year-to-date basis,
reversing part of the 2010 underperformance.”    Saes Getters SpA  (SG IM) retreated for a second day, losing
3.1 percent to 8.21 euros. The Italian maker of a key chemical
used in televisions and computer monitors was downgraded to
“neutral” from “outperform” at Intermonte Sim SpA.        Stefanel SpA  (STEF IM) rose 1.4 percent to 54.65 euro
cents, a first gain in three days. The clothing company
completed the sale of its 50 percent stake in Noel International
SA, the owner of retailer Nuance Group AG, to PAI Partners for
106 million euros ($147 million).    STMicroelectronics NV  (STM IM) fell for the first time this
week, losing 1 percent to 9.39 euros. The chipmaker is among the
“least preferred stocks” in the European technology hardware
industry at UBS AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 