-- 
Bain Capital Is Top Fee Provider to Wall Street, Freeman Says

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-02-18T12:04:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/bain-capital-is-top-fee-provider-to-wall-street-freeman-says.html
  Bain Capital  LLC, which is investing
a $10 billion leveraged buyout fund, was the most lucrative
private equity client for investment banks last year.  Bain Capital, based in  Boston , paid banks $353 million in
fees last year for services including arranging loans or
advising on takeovers such as the 1.9 billion-pound ($3 billion)
purchase of credit-card processor WorldPay with Advent
International Corp., according to estimates by New York-based
research firm  Freeman & Co .  Fees from LBO firms may rise again this year after doubling
to $7 billion last year and recovering from 2009, when
dealmaking nearly came to a halt as credit used to fund
acquisitions dried up. Private equity firms led $297 billion of
transactions last year, more than double the amount in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They’ve announced $31
billion of deals this year, up from $14 billion last year, as
banks resume lending.  The  Carlyle Group , the world’s second-largest private
equity firm, paid $300 million in banking fees for takeovers
including the $3.8 billion purchase of NBTY Inc., the maker of
Nature’s Bounty nutritional supplements, according to Freeman’s
estimates, which were based on completed transactions compiled
by Thomson Reuters Corp. TPG Capital, which completed its $5.2
billion acquisition of IMS Healthcare Inc. last year, was third
with a $279 million bill, the data show.    Goldman Sachs Group Inc . received $685.5 million from
buyout firms, the most from private equity firms, which include
its Goldman Sachs Capital Partners. Charlotte, North Carolina-
based  Bank of America Corp . got $635.2 million, while  Credit
Suisse Group AG  billed $584 million, Freeman said.  Freeman estimates the total fee pool paid for investment
banking services by companies including LBO firms will rise 3
percent to $87.8 billion this year. The researcher didn’t break
it down by category of clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  