-- 
Bank of Ireland Sees 30% Decline in Operating Profit

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-02-18T18:14:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/bank-of-ireland-sees-30-decline-in-operating-profit-update1-.html
Bank of Ireland Plc, the nation’s
largest lender, said it expects operating profit before
impairment charges to drop by as much as 30 percent after
funding costs surged.  Operating profit will drop by 25 percent to 30 percent from
about 1.4 billion euros ($1.9 billion) in the comparable prior
year period, the lender said in a statement today. The Dublin-
based bank changed its fiscal year to the calendar year in 2010
after it was bailed out by the government, which now owns 36
percent of the lender.  Funding costs rose as the bank struggled to access
wholesale markets and turned to emergency funding from central
banks. Deposits also shrank as customers pulled money from its
capital markets operations as the lender’s ratings were cut.  The lender today reiterated that loan impairment charges
peaked in 2009, excluding losses sustained on loans it
transferred to the  National Asset Management Agency , the
country’s so-called bad bank. Overall customer deposit volumes
remained “broadly stable” since Nov. 28, the lender said.  “Against a background of uncertainty, Bank of Ireland has
issued an encouraging trading statement, which stands by the
previous assertion that loan loss charges peaked in 2009 and
indicates that deposits have been broadly stable since the
European Union and International Monetary Fund bailout
announcement at the end of November,”  Stephen Lyons , an analyst
at Dublin-based securities Davy, said in a note to clients.  Capital Plan  The shares rose 1.3 percent to 38.4 euro cents at the 5:10
p.m. close of Dublin trading.  Bank of Ireland has been ordered by the country’s central
bank to raise 2.2 billion euros of additional capital following
the country’s international bailout last November. There is
“some hope” that the lender will not need a further capital
injection from the state,  Michael Noonan , finance spokesman for
Ireland’s largest opposition party, Fine Gael, said on Feb. 10.  The bank said it will next week pay a 214.5 million-euro
coupon owed to the state on its 1.8 billion euros of preference
shares in the lender. Bank of Ireland had been banned from
paying discretionary dividends and coupons last year as the
European Commission reviewed the group’s restructuring plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  