-- 
Banks to Thwart CFTC on Swap Rule, Oliver Wyman Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-02-18T19:08:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/banks-to-thwart-cftc-rule-on-open-access-to-swap-trades-oliver-wyman-says.html
A Commodity Futures Trading
Commission plan to ensure open access to swap-trading systems
will be thwarted by banks, who want to exclude customers and
trade only among themselves in part of the market, according to
consulting firm  Oliver Wyman .  The  proposed rule , now open to public comment while the
final version is written, requires any qualified swaps investor
to have “impartial access to the market” to trade the
contracts on so-called swap-execution facilities. That could
open the current inter-dealer market, where only banks are
allowed to trade with each other, to allow in their clients,
such as money managers and  hedge funds .  “The definition of SEFs is not yet ready, and we
understand the banks are heavily lobbying against this,” Robert
Urtheil, a partner at Oliver Wyman who co-authored a report this
week with  Morgan Stanley  on the future of the capital markets
structure, said in an interview yesterday. “The market
structure will stay as it is, with an inter-dealer market and a
dealer-to-client market.”  That’s because billions of dollars are at stake, Urtheil
said. The largest dealers make a collective $30 billion a year
by executing fixed-income swaps, such as for interest rate and
credit risk, with their customers, compared with $3 billion to
$5 billion a year from trading fixed-income futures, said the
New York and Frankfurt-based consultant. Keeping their customers
separated from other dealers would prevent the swaps market from
becoming like the futures market and help preserve their
revenue, he said.  Oliver Wyman is a unit of Marsh & McLennan Cos., the
second-biggest insurance broker.  CFTC Rules  The CFTC rules will bring more participants into the
wholesale market for inter-dealer services because
clearinghouses that back the swaps traded on SEFs will broaden
the base of investors to transact with, said Christopher Giancarlo, executive vice president of  GFI Group Inc ., an inter-
dealer broker. Clearinghouses lower counterparty default risk
among users by sharing risk.  “You’re still going to have a two-tiered structure,” said
Giancarlo, a former chairman of the Wholesale Markets Brokers’
Association of the Americas, an inter-dealer broker trade and
lobbying group.  “Everyone I’ve spoken to realizes that the times are
changing and are preparing for a bigger wholesale market,” he
said.  27 Meetings  The CFTC has held 27  meetings  with derivative industry
participants since December that dealt with the swap-execution
facility rulemaking, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .,  Credit
Suisse Group AG ,  ICAP Plc  and Intercontinental Exchange Inc.,
according to a list kept on the regulator’s website.  Increased transparency, as in  futures markets  where all
market users can see prices before a trade, would result in
tighter differences between the cost to buy and sell a swap,
known as the bid-ask spread, leading to smaller profits for
dealers.    Scott Schneider , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment.  Congress last year mandated that most over-the-counter
derivatives trade on SEFs or exchanges after credit-default
swaps contributed to the financial crisis and the unregulated
market made it difficult to determine how interconnected banks
had become by trading the contracts.  Dodd-Frank  The trading rules and definitions to establish swap-
execution facilities were fought over in creating the Dodd-Frank
law because banks profit by keeping their prices private. The
definition of swap-execution facilities went through at least
five changes from the time the U.S. House of Representatives
began deliberating financial reform in 2009 to it becoming law
in July.  While the SEF definition isn’t final, the CFTC has proposed
that they be electronic platforms with a minimum number of
market participants and operate similar to exchanges. They will
earn between $5 billion and $6 billion in annual revenue by
2013, according to the Feb. 16 joint report by Oliver Wyman
consultants and Morgan Stanley analysts titled “The Future of
Capital Markets Infrastructure.”  Banks use the swaps inter-dealer market to lay off the risk
of a transaction they’ve done with a customer. They use brokers
such as ICAP, GFI Group and  BGC Partners Inc . to enter the
opposite trade with another bank.  Dodd-Frank  Because the Dodd-Frank Act requires swaps traded on SEFs or
exchanges to be sent to  clearinghouses , the brokers would risk
losing their bank-to-bank exclusivity on those transactions,
estimated to be 60 percent to 80 percent of the market by the
report.  Trades that don’t have to be cleared wouldn’t be affected
by the requirements and could still be done over the telephone,
a method inter-dealer brokers relied on for much of their
history.  Urtheil’s view that the banks will still be allowed to
trade among themselves conflicts with CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler ’s push for open access to trading systems and
clearinghouses as swaps are regulated for the first time in
their 30-year history.  “Exchanges and SEFs allow buyers and sellers to meet in an
open, centralized marketplace, where prices are made publicly
available,” Gensler said in a Feb. 4 speech.  In its proposed rule, the CFTC says “the purpose of the
proposed impartial access requirements is to prevent a SEF’s
owners or operators from using discriminatory access
requirements as a competitive tool against certain
participants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 