-- 
Bank of Japan Members Warn Against Optimism on U.S. Economy

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-02-18T07:20:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/bank-of-japan-members-warn-against-optimism-on-u-s-economy.html
  Bank of Japan  policy board members
cautioned about the market’s excessive optimism toward the  U.S.
economy , according to minutes of their Jan. 24-25 meeting.  Given that the U.S. “economy continued to be burdened with
balance-sheet adjustments, the prevailing view among market
participants about the economic outlook might be somewhat too
optimistic,” the minutes released today in Tokyo said, citing a
few of the nine board members.  Japanese benchmark government bond yields climbed to a 10-
month high this week on expectations global growth will
accelerate and energy and food costs will increase worldwide.
The BOJ last month raised its growth forecasts for the year
through March and predicted faster inflation.  A few members said market views regarding the U.S. economic
outlook would likely “continue to fluctuate between optimism
and pessimism,” the minutes said. They said the central bank
should watch how U.S. economic developments and moves in U.S.
long-term interest rates and foreign-exchange rates affect Japan,
according to the minutes.  “Upside and downside risks are broadly balanced,” central
bank Governor Masaaki Shirakawa told reporters in Paris today,
where he is attending a gathering of Group of 20 finance chiefs
and central bankers. “Emerging economies in particular are
showing signs of overheating or inflationary bubbles, while
developed economies are still undergoing various balance-sheet
adjustments.”  Fed Optimism  In the U.S., Federal Reserve policy makers took a more
optimistic view of the economy last month while maintaining
their dissatisfaction with job growth, minutes of January’s
policy meeting released this week showed.  At the BOJ meeting, board members upgraded their forecast
for economic growth in the year ending March to 3.3 percent from
2.1 percent, and boosted their predictions for gains in consumer
prices in the year starting April to 0.3 percent from the
previous 0.1 percent.  Many members said it’s “more likely that the economy would
return to a moderate recovery path,” underpinned by a moderate
increase in exports and a pick-up in consumption and output.
Some said that while the odds of a moderate recovery have
increased, “subsequent economic developments remained
uncertain,” according to the minutes.  The members also pointed to risks to the Japanese economy
stemming from  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, according to the
minutes. Many members said European economic risks “had
relatively increased,” and a few said if markets become
unstable due to the European debt crisis, the damage could
“spill over to Japan’s economy to a considerable extent,” the
minutes said.  Japan’s gross domestic product shrank less than estimated
in the fourth quarter, contracting at an annualized 1.1 percent
pace, figures released by the Cabinet Office this week showed.
The economy will expand 0.6 percent in the first quarter and
accelerate to a 1.9 percent pace by the final three months of
2011, according to the median estimates of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  