-- 
Bats Agrees to Buy Chi-X Europe as Competition Grows

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-02-18T21:41:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/bats-agrees-to-buy-chi-x-europe-as-competition-grows.html
Bats Global Markets  agreed to buy
Chi-X Europe Ltd.,  Europe ’s largest alternative trading system,
as competition spurs exchange operators to expand globally.  Bats, the fourth-largest operator of U.S. equity markets
and Europe’s second-biggest alternative trading platform, didn’t
disclose financial terms in a statement today. Bats, based in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , is paying $300 million plus $65 million
in potential future payouts if profit beats targets, according
to two people familiar with the matter, who declined to be
identified because the terms aren’t public. Randy Williams, a
spokesman for Bats, declined to comment.  “Our goal is to grow our markets to a critical-mass level
so they have good momentum and trajectory,” Bats Chief
Executive Officer Joe Ratterman said in an interview today.
“This is a rare instance where an acquisition made sense on
lots of fronts and accelerates our business plans in Europe.”
He said Bats Global Markets may consider converting its European
markets into registered exchanges.  Chi-X handled 16 percent of  stock trading  in Europe during
the past five days, based on the value of shares changing hands,
according to  data  compiled by Bats. The compares with 21 percent
for  London Stock Exchange Group Plc , 17 percent for NYSE
Euronext and 5.7 percent for Bats.  Spate of Takeovers  The announcement follows Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse
AG ’s agreement this week to buy New York-based NYSE Euronext for
$9.53 billion, creating the world’s largest exchange operator.  Singapore Exchange Ltd . bid A$8.35 billion ($8.47 billion) in
October for  ASX Ltd ., which runs the Australian stock market,
and  London  Stock Exchange Group agreed to pay 1.94 billion
pounds ($3.15 billion) last week to buy Canada’s TMX Group Inc.  Ratterman said Bats may list companies in Europe. Bats Chi-
X Europe will maintain two public order books in the region for
buy and sell requests while operating both markets on Bats
technology, said Mark Hemsley, chief executive officer of Bats
Europe. Separate order books will allow the firm to attract
different types of users to each equities market through pricing
geared to those participants, he said.  Ratterman said he’s pleased by recent industry mergers
since they may allow his company to showcase its flexibility and
low-cost business model. Bats was founded in 2005.  Getting Bigger  “Large players are getting even larger,” he said. “As a
nimble startup firm that’s able to compete on a global scale
with a fraction of their overhead and footprint, we like it when
our competitors get even bigger.” He declined to say whether
the company will sell shares in an initial public offering.  Chi-X competes with traditional exchanges such as LSE and  Deutsche Boerse  by offering lower fees and faster trading. The
company is partly owned by Instinet Inc., a New York-based unit
of Nomura Holdings Inc., and investment banks and traders
including  Credit Suisse Group AG , Getco LLC, Bank of America
Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley. Bats is owned by Bank
of America, Citigroup, Getco, Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley,
among others.  “This puts together the market shares of Bats Europe and
Chi-X Europe and gets immediate synergies particularly in the
technology area,” Hemsley said. “We’ll be able to offer
customers the low-latency Bats trading platform and the Chi-X
and Bats books. We’ll also be able to rationalize other elements
of the technological infrastructure.”  Deal Advisers  Broadhaven Capital Partners was financial adviser to Bats
while Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and Macfarlanes LLP gave legal
assistance, according to the statement. Chi-X Europe got
financial counsel from Lexicon Partners, with legal advice from
Slaughter & May and Alston & Bird.  “These are two smaller players in a big pond,” said Paul Zubulake, senior analyst for futures and options at Boston-based
Aite Group LLC. “Bats has superior technology to pretty much
all the platforms out there, so on the equities side they’re
definitely a force to be reckoned with. The LSE and Deutsche
Boerse are obviously concerned.”  Bats Chi-X Europe also expects to move into derivatives
trading in Europe and expand its distribution of market data,
Hemsley said. Bats Global Markets operates an equity options
platform in the U.S. That system could serve as the basis for
futures and options trading in Europe, he said. The company is
likely to initially focus on equity derivatives, he said.  “Especially given the recent moves with Deutsche Boerse
and  NYSE Euronext , there is concern that there’s becoming a
monopoly provider in Europe of derivatives trading,” Hemsley
said. “There’s a very ready appetite in the trading community
for alternate platforms where derivatives can be traded.”  Zubulake said Bats has hurdles ahead if it plans to build a  derivatives market  in Europe.  “Options on single-name equities in Europe is not an
active market and without common clearing in futures the chance
for a formidable challenge to the existing markets will be an
uphill battle,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 