-- 
Bats Global Markets Is Said Poised to Purchase Chi-X Europe

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-02-18T08:22:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/bats-global-markets-is-said-poised-to-complete-purchase-of-chi-x-europe.html
Bats Global Markets  is close to an
agreement to take over Chi-X Europe Ltd., Europe’s largest-
alternative trading system, according to two people familiar
with the discussions.  The deal may be signed by the end of the week, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks aren’t
public. Bats, which operates the third-largest U.S. equity
market and Europe’s second-biggest alternative trading system,
offered about $300 million for Chi-X Europe, people familiar
with the matter said in December.    Deutsche Boerse AG  of Frankfurt agreed this week to
purchase New York-based NYSE Euronext, creating the world’s
largest exchange operator. Their union follows  Singapore
Exchange Ltd .’s October bid for  ASX Ltd ., which runs the
Australian stock market, and  London Stock Exchange Group Plc ’s
deal last week to buy Canada’s TMX Group Inc.  Bats and Chi-X said on Dec. 22 that they were in talks. At
the time, two people familiar with the situation said exclusive
discussions would last until Feb. 11. The companies extended the
exclusivity that day, according to a statement.  Chi-X Europe is the largest European electronic stock
market that competes with traditional exchanges such as LSE and
Deutsche Boerse by offering lower fees and faster trading.  Chi-X Europe is partly owned by Instinet Inc., a New York-
based unit of Nomura Holdings Inc., and investment banks and
traders including  Credit Suisse Group AG , Getco LLC, Bank of
America Corp.,  Citigroup Inc . and Morgan Stanley. Bats is owned
by Bank of America, Citigroup, Getco, Credit Suisse and Morgan
Stanley, among others.  Randy Williams, a spokesman for Bats, and Julia Streets, a
spokeswoman for Chi-X Europe, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 