-- 
Bernanke Reiterates Criticism of China Yuan Policy

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-02-18T15:49:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/bernanke-criticizes-china-s-policy-of-keeping-yuan-low-amid-trade-surplus.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  reiterated his criticism of China’s limits on the yuan,
saying countries with large trade surpluses should let their
currencies appreciate to aid the global economy.  “The maintenance of undervalued currencies by some
countries has contributed to a pattern of global spending that
is unbalanced and unsustainable,” Bernanke said without
identifying China in a speech today in Paris. Those countries
“will need to allow their exchange rates to better reflect
market fundamentals and increase their efforts to substitute
domestic demand for exports.”  The changes would help address what Bernanke called a
“collective challenge” to “reshape the international monetary
system.” While trying to deflect criticism from officials in
China and  Brazil  over the Fed’s record stimulus, Bernanke in the
speech cited “concerns” that monetary easing in advanced
economies is fueling capital flows to emerging markets, spurring
inflation and causing asset-price bubbles.  Bernanke balanced his China criticism by saying that
countries with big trade deficits should aim to increase saving,
“including putting fiscal policies on a more sustainable
trajectory.” He didn’t mention the U.S. or European nations.  The Fed chief spoke at a panel discussion with other
central bankers hosted by the Bank of  France . Paris is hosting
the Group of 20 meetings of central bankers and finance
ministers this weekend.  Economic Outlook  Bernanke, 57, didn’t discuss the outlook for the  U.S.
economy  and monetary policy. The  Federal Open Market Committee 
last month affirmed plans to buy $600 billion of Treasuries
through June even as policy makers raised their projections for
U.S. growth this year. Bernanke is seeking to reduce 9 percent
unemployment by bringing about a “sustained period of stronger  job creation ,” he said Feb. 3.  In an accompanying 38-page research paper, the first he’s
written since becoming chairman in 2006, Bernanke and three Fed
staff economists present evidence that demand from abroad for
safe U.S. securities helped fuel America’s housing bubble last
decade through the creation of AAA-rated securities tied to
risky mortgages.  “To be clear, in no way do our findings assign the
ultimate causality for the housing boom and bust to factors
outside the  United States ,” the paper said. “However, an
examination of how changes in the pattern of international
capital flows affected yields on U.S. assets is important for
understanding the origins and dynamics of the crisis.”  ‘More Balanced Growth’  Responding to a question after his speech, Bernanke said
governments around the world “need to talk more about
coordination of monetary and fiscal policy both in the short run
and the long run to allow for a more balanced growth path.” He
cited a situation where demand isn’t “optimally allocated”
worldwide.  The comments were part of a panel discussion featuring
central bankers representing the world’s largest economies after
the U.S.: People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan,  Bank
of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King .  In comments published today in the Bank of France’s
Financial Stability Review, Zhou said “over-concentration of
foreign assets in one particular currency may bring about
undesired consequences.”  ‘Reforming’ System  So in addition to improving regulation and rationalizing
savings allocation, the G-20 “should move forward in reforming
the international monetary system,” Zhou said.  Today’s remarks from Bernanke are similar to a November
speech in  Frankfurt , where he said countries that undervalue
their currencies may eventually inhibit growth around the world
and risk financial instability at home. While Bernanke also
didn’t identify China in that speech, he took aim at “large,
systemically important countries with persistent current-account
surpluses.”  China has limited the yuan’s appreciation to promote
exports that helped the country surpass Japan to become the
world’s second-largest economy last year.  China ’s economy
expanded 9.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010 from a year
earlier.  In today’s comments, Bernanke said higher global commodity
prices have resulted “significantly” from increased demand in
emerging markets. Countries that allow their currencies to float
freely “have seen their competitiveness erode relative to
countries that have intervened more aggressively in foreign
exchange markets,” he said.  Higher Returns  Capital flows to emerging markets are being driven by
expectations of faster growth and higher returns, and flows
“are not out of line with longer-term trends,” he said. Policy
makers in those countries have currency and policy tools they
can use to manage their economies, Bernanke said, reiterating
his rejection of the idea that the Fed is causing difficulties
in financial markets in emerging-market countries.  Bernanke published several papers while serving as a Fed
governor from 2002 to 2005. He wrote or co-wrote more than 40
research articles during his career as a monetary-policy scholar
and economic historian at institutions including  Princeton
University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  