-- 
BHP to Set Monthly Coking Coal Prices, Nikkei Says

-- B y   A a r o n   S h e l d r i c k   a n d   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 
2011-02-18T07:43:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/bhp-plans-to-adopt-monthly-pricing-for-coking-coal-nikkei-says.html
  BHP Billiton Ltd . told Japanese
steelmakers it plans to adopt monthly contracts for coking coal
used in blast furnaces from April rather than quarterly pricing,
the Nikkei newspaper reported, without citing anyone.  BHP spokeswoman Fiona Martin declined to comment on the
report. Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd., a Japanese steelmaker,
hasn’t been notified of any change, spokesman Akio Yokoyama said
when contacted by phone.  Nippon Steel Corp . and  JFE Holdings
Inc . declined to comment.  “We have methodically sought to achieve floating and
transparent market pricing for all our products,” BHP Chief
Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  said in August last year about
commodity pricing. “We would like the market price of the day,
every day, for all of our commodities.”  BHP,  Vale SA  and Rio Tinto Group, the world’s three largest
mining companies, are set for record profit totaling $52 billion
as they raise prices for their biggest customers. The companies,
also the largest iron-ore exporters, may post an average 66
percent jump in the annual earnings they report this year
compared with 2007, according to analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  In contrast,  ArcelorMittal , Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.,  Posco 
and Nippon Steel, the largest publicly traded steelmakers, may
see an average 31 percent slump in profit over the same
duration.  Struggling to Adapt  The steel producers have struggled to adapt to changes in
raw-material pricing introduced last year as mining companies
ended a decades-old system of annual contract talks in favor of
quarterly accords. BHP led the change to price iron-ore and
coking-coal sales each quarter, saying it better reflected
shifts in the market. Steelmakers opposed the move, arguing it
hampered efforts to predict costs and pass them onto consumers.  Analysts estimated in January last year the iron-ore annual
benchmark price may increase 30 percent to 50 percent in 2010
from 2009’s $61 a metric ton. Instead, the first quarterly
contract for BHP’s ore was set starting April 1 at $120, double
the previous annual price, according to UBS AG.  It rose for two of the three subsequent quarters and was
set at $143 for the current quarter, UBS said.  Nippon Steel, Japan’s largest steelmakers, cut its full-
year profit forecast on Jan. 28 after prices fell and floods in  Australia  pushed up the cost of steelmaking ingredients.  Nippon Steel and  Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd ., Japan’s
largest and third-biggest steelmakers, earlier this month agreed
to combine to cut costs. The merger plan, to be completed by
2012, would produce the world’s second-largest steelmaker in a
deal valued at about 2 trillion yen ($24 billion), according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nippon Steel shares fell 1 percent today to 305 yen, while
Sumitomo Metal rose 2.4 percent to 212 yen. JFE Holdings Inc.,
Japan’s second-largest Japanese steelmaker, fell 1.73 percent to
2,728 yen. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Average rose 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Sheldrick in Tokyo at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  