-- 
Bini Smaghi Says ECB May Increase Interest Rates as Price Pressures Mount

-- B y   P a u l a   P a r k   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-02-18T17:42:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/bini-smaghi-says-ecb-may-increase-interest-rates-as-price-pressures-mount.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said the bank may need to raise  interest rates  as global inflation pressures mount.  “As the economy gradually recovers and global inflationary
pressures arise, the degree of accommodation of monetary policy
has to be monitored and, if needed, corrected,” Bini Smaghi
said in an interview with daily newsletter Bloomberg Brief:
Economics. Commodity-price increases will “have an unavoidable
impact” and “it is a key challenge for monetary policy to
avoid spillovers and maintain inflation expectations in check,”
he said. “This requires the ability to take pre-emptive actions
if needed.”  Bini Smaghi’s comments suggest officials are becoming more
concerned about inflation, which has already breached the ECB’s
2 percent limit and is running at the fastest pace in more than
two years. The ECB has held its benchmark rate at a record low
of 1 percent for almost two years, helping to haul the euro area
out of recession.  While the sovereign debt crisis is crimping growth in high-
deficit nations,  Germany ’s economy is booming. Forecasters in an
ECB survey this month raised their longer-term inflation
expectations to 2 percent.  Euro Jumps  “The continued firm anchoring of inflation expectations is
essential,” Bini Smaghi said in the interview, which was
conducted by e-mail on Feb. 16.  The euro jumped almost a cent against the dollar to as high
as $1.3642 after the remarks were published.  Government bonds 
fell and the yield on December Euribor futures increased eight
basis points to 1.88 percent.  Policy makers are “telling the market that it can’t expect
the main rate to be kept at an emergency level until the debt
crisis is solved,” said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area economist
at UniCredit Group in Milan.  Investors have increased bets that the ECB will raise rates
as early as the third quarter, EONIA forward swaps show.  “Markets now see a risk of the first rate increase coming
as early as September,” said Laurent Bilke, head of global
inflation strategy at Nomura International in London. “The
inflation outlook warrants that.”  ECB ‘Alertness’    Barclays Capital  changed its rate forecast today, and said
it expects the first 25 basis-point increase in September and
another in December. Barclays previously predicted the ECB
wouldn’t tighten until June 2012.  Asked whether markets are correct to assume that the ECB
may raise rates later this year, Bini Smaghi said: “Financial
market participants know that the ECB’s objective is to maintain  price stability  for the euro area as a whole. The ECB has
clearly and repeatedly communicated its alertness.”  Political tensions in the Middle East and North Africa are
stoking  oil prices , while in Germany, where import-price
inflation is running at the fastest pace in 29 years, workers
are demanding bigger pay increases.  Euro-area inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent in January,
and a survey of purchasing managers in the manufacturing
industry this month showed input-price inflation jumped to a
record in France, Italy and  Austria .  The debt crisis and economic divergences in the 17-nation
currency bloc are complicating the ECB’s task of applying a one-
size-fits-all monetary policy. While Germany’s economy grew 3.6
percent last year, the most since reunification two decades ago,
Ireland,  Greece , Portugal and  Spain  are struggling to emerge
from their slumps.  “The degree of heterogeneity plays no role in setting the
appropriate monetary-policy stance,” Bini Smaghi said. “It is
the task of other policies to avoid the emergence of imbalances,
especially in asset prices, which in turn may lead to divergent
economic trends.”  Policy makers convene in  Frankfurt  for their next rate-
setting meeting on March 3, when the ECB will also publish new
growth and inflation forecasts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Paula Park in London at 
 ppark17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  