-- 
BM&FBovespa Profit Rises 19% on Derivatives Trading

-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 
2011-02-18T16:07:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/bm-fbovespa-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-19-on-derivatives.html
  BM&FBovespa SA , the operator of
Latin America’s biggest securities exchange, said fourth-quarter
profit rose 19 percent after derivatives trading increased.  Net income excluding minority interests climbed to 261.5
million reais ($156.6 million), from 220.2 million reais a year
earlier, the Sao Paulo-based company said in a regulatory filing
yesterday. Adjusted net income was 368 million reais, while net
revenue climbed 11 percent to 470.1 million reais.  Trading of derivatives contracts on BM&F exchanges
increased as investors stepped up purchases and sales of
interest-rate futures to bet on the path of borrowing costs.
Equity volumes reflect a “slow recovery from the overhang”
stemming from Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s $70 billion stock
offering in September, according to Banco BTG Pactual SA.  The fourth-quarter results were “a little lower than our
estimates,” said Daniel Malheiros, an analyst at Spinelli
Corretora brokerage in  Sao Paulo . “It’s not going to be a
driver for the stock. The most important thing to look at is
that they will have increased competition, so the margins should
decrease in the long term.”  Spinelli Corretora has a share target price of 14.17 reais
for December 2011 and a neutral recommendation on BM&FBovespa.
The shares rose 0.3 percent to 11.94 reais in Sao Paulo trading
at 10:40 a.m. New York time. Shares have fallen 9.1 percent this
year, exceeding a 1.8 percent drop for the benchmark Bovespa
index.  Trading Income  Income from derivatives trading rose 41 percent from a year
earlier to 175.9 million reais. Trading fees, which account for
most of the exchange’s profit, declined 1.2 percent to 258.7
million reais. Net income from the previous quarter fell 11
percent.  BM&FBovespa Chief Executive Officer Edemir Pinto said
possible future competition from another exchange won’t take
away volume from the Sao Paulo bourse.  “When I see competition, I don’t stop to think about how
much volume I’ll lose,” Pinto told reporters in Sao Paulo.
“For someone to want to come here, it means they’ve also worked
out that the market is going to grow.”  Bats Global Markets and Claritas Investments are discussing
plans to build a new equities exchange in  Brazil , Ken Conklin,
senior vice president of business development and marketing at
Bats, said Feb. 15.  The owner of Latin America’s largest exchange is looking
for growth opportunities in countries such as Japan and  China 
and wants to make partnerships rather than acquisitions, Pinto
told reporters in Sao Paulo today.  Brazil Regulations  Share prices on the Sao Paulo exchange are being affected
by investors’ perceived risk of changes to Brazil’s foreign-
exchange regulations, Pinto said at an event in Sao Paulo today.  The central bank bought $8 billion of U.S. currency last
month, the most since September, while betting against the real
in the  derivatives market  to offset rising foreign capital
inflows. The real has gained 39 percent since the end of 2008,
the most among emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
during that period.  The nation’s tax agency in November ordered the exchange to
pay a 410.2 million-real fine related to the takeover of Bovespa
Holding SA. The government also last year tripled to 6 percent a
levy on foreigners’ purchases of some Brazilian securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  