-- 
BOC Hong Kong Manager Cleared of Lehman Products Fraud

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-02-18T09:42:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/boc-hong-kong-manager-cleared-of-fraud-in-sale-of-lehman-linked-products.html
A BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd.
manager was found not guilty of  fraudulently  or recklessly
inducing her retail banking customers to buy structured products
linked to  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc .  Judge Garry Tallentire said in his verdict delivered in
Hong Kong’s District Court today that he found the banker Cheung
Kwai-kwai honest and some of the witnesses for the prosecution
unreliable.  The Hong Kong case underscores how the fallout from the
biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history continues to ripple around
the world, three years after Lehman collapsed with $613 billion
in liabilities. About 43,000 investors in Hong Kong bought an
estimated $1.8 billion of equity-linked notes known as minibonds
that were connected to Lehman and sold by commercial banks.  “Despite the political heat and emotion of the Lehman
minibonds, the court has adopted a rigorous and objective
approach to determining very serious questions of potential
criminal liability,” said Martin Rogers, head of litigation and
dispute resolution in  Asia  at Clifford Chance LLP.  The law firm, which advised Cheung during regulatory
investigations into the products, didn’t act in the criminal
proceedings.  Lehman’s collapse angered many members of the public,
Tallentire said. The prosecution failed to prove its case
against Cheung, he said.  Customers Warned  Cheung, 48, warned customers that they risked losing their
investments in the custom-made securities, which lost their
value after Lehman’s bankruptcy in 2008, her lawyer  Peter Duncan 
had told the court.  She burst into tears on hearing the verdict, which was read
out over several hours today.  Jonathan Man for the prosecution declined to comment on
whether the government would appeal.  The Hong Kong unit of Bank of China Ltd. was the biggest
seller of the notes and was among 16 institutions that agreed to
buy them back for at least 60 cents on the dollar in a
settlement brokered by regulators.  BOC  Hong Kong  spokeswoman Angel Yip said last month Cheung
is still employed by the bank. Another employee charged for the
same offence, Tai Ching, is scheduled to be tried next month.  Street Protests  Lehman’s collapse wiped out the value of investments in the
notes, sparking a public outcry, street protests and allegations
of misselling. The heads of the city’s central bank and
securities watchdog were called to testify before lawmakers and
scolded in public.  “We are disappointed,” said Chan Ho-wai of a group called
the Alliance of Lehman Brothers Victims after the verdict. They
will continue to seek to recover their money, he said.  Securities and Futures Commission spokesman Jonathan Li
said yesterday the participating banks have paid about HK$5.5
billion ($706 million) to 98 percent of the almost 30,000
eligible investors who bought minibonds from them.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority said today that more than
99 percent of the 21,747 complaints it has received on Lehman-
related products have been resolved, closed or acted upon.  Investigation work is underway on the remaining 91 cases,
it said.  The case is Hong Kong SAR v. Cheung Kwai Kwai, DCCC526/2010,
in Hong Kong District Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong in Hong Kong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  