-- 
Krawcheck Slaps Cut-Pay Garden Leave on BofA Advisers After Broker Defects

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-02-18T15:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/bofa-forces-garden-leave-on-advisers-after-top-broker-defects.html
  Bank of America Corp ., which lost a
financial adviser with $5.9 billion in client assets to a rival
in December, told some workers to sign agreements forcing them
to go on reduced-pay “garden leave” if they plan to resign.  Employees of the bank’s U.S. Trust unit received the notice
this week ahead of 2010 bonus payments and were told their
continued employment hinged on agreeing to the new policy, said
a person with knowledge of the correspondence. Advisers who
previously could leave after two weeks notice now must remain
for 60 days and are forbidden from soliciting clients for a
total of eight months, according to a copy of the document.  “They’re sending the message, ‘Make no mistake, you will
incur our wrath, this is not a place you want to leave,’” said
Mindy Diamond, president of Diamond Consultants LLC, a Chester,
New Jersey-based executive-search firm. “It’s very rare that a
company would have garden-leave provisions for producers, and I
think this could backfire if people view it as draconian.”    Sallie Krawcheck , 46, head of Bank of America’s wealth
management division, is seeking to stem defections as rivals
jockey to manage money for high-net-worth individuals. U.S.
Trust last year lost Michael C. Brown, whose clients had a
typical net worth of $50 million. He joined a startup co-founded
by former  Citigroup Inc . executive Todd S. Thomson.  The document didn’t say how many of U.S. Trust’s 4,000
employees are affected.  William Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to
comment. Bank of America ranks first among U.S. lenders by
assets and deposits.  No Bonus  Garden leave, a euphemism used in the U.K., refers to the
period after giving notice in which an employee remains on
payroll while not doing anything connected to the brokerage
industry. Hypothetically, the time could be spent gardening.  At  U.S. Trust , associates who choose to resign “may be
assigned whatever duties” the firm decides during the two-month
leave, according to the policy. They’ll forfeit bonuses and must
wait another six months before soliciting former clients or
colleagues to join their new venture, according to the document.  Employees must also agree that they aren’t subject to the
so-called broker protocol, a voluntary recruiting agreement that
allows departing advisers to solicit clients without getting
sued. Whether U.S. Trust advisers were part of the protocol was
disputed in the lawsuit Bank of America filed against Brown and
three of his colleagues in December. The bank settled the case
in January for undisclosed terms.  Recruiting Trouble  “Your employment is further conditioned upon your
agreeing” to the terms of the letter, Bank of America wrote
this week. “Should you not comply with these terms, you agree
that the company shall have the right to enforce them” through
court-ordered actions.  The new policy pertains to workers including private client
advisers, portfolio managers and trust officers, according to
the document. Garden leave is typically part of employment
contracts for senior executives, not employees who deal with
clients face-to-face, Diamond said.  Enticements to depart a firm are at “an all-time high”
with compensation packages at the biggest brokerages worth as
much as 350 percent of an adviser’s trailing 12-month revenue,
said Diamond.  The new U.S. Trust policy “could hobble their efforts in
recruiting,” said Jonathan Henschen, a broker recruiter based
in Marine on St. Croix,  Minnesota . “If you have to wait eight
months before you can approach your old clients, it will
drastically affect your client-retention rate in the first year.
People will look at that and say, ‘I’m not going there.’”  Weak Performance  Bank of America, citing “weak new relationship acquisition
performance,” also overhauled U.S. Trust employee compensation
by mandating that advisers must add at least three new high-net-
worth clients in 2011 to be eligible for discretionary awards,
according to a separate document.  U.S. Trust,  founded  a decade before the Civil War, was
purchased by  Charles Schwab Corp . in 2000. Bank of America
created its wealth management division in part by buying U.S.
Trust for $3.3 billion in 2006 and purchasing Merrill Lynch &
Co. in 2009. The company has about 20,000 brokers, advisers and
wealth-management bankers with $2.2 trillion of client balances
as of Dec. 31, according to a  presentation .  Added Advisers  Krawcheck’s division added about 500 advisers and private
bankers last year, a rate that was “somewhat disappointing,”
Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  told
analysts in January. The business reported that 2010 net income
slipped by 22 percent to $1.35 billion on higher expenses.  “We’d expect that number to be stronger,” Moynihan, 51,
said during the conference call. “We need to grow that, because
our biggest opportunity inside the  United States  is around the
wealth management space.”  Brown managed about $5.9 billion in client money at U.S.
Trust, according to Barron’s, which ranked him 28th on its 2009
 list  of the top 100 U.S. financial advisers. His new company,
New York-based Dynasty Financial Partners, offers research and a
technology platform for independent advisory firms.  Brokerages are focusing on the wealthiest individuals to
boost profit margins.  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., Citigroup,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc . and  Deutsche Bank AG  are hiring bankers devoted
to helping affluent clients. Assets under management at the four
top brokerages slipped 16 percent to $4.75 trillion from 2007
through 2009, while jumping almost 14 percent to $1.54 trillion
at independent firms, according to researcher Aite Group LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 