-- 
Rabbi in SAC Extortion Plot Sentenced to 4 Years

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-02-18T19:14:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/brooklyn-rabbi-in-sac-capital-extortion-plot-sentenced-to-four-year-term.html
Milton Balkany, a Brooklyn,  New
York , rabbi, was ordered to serve four years in prison for
trying to extort $4 million from  Steven Cohen ’s SAC Capital
Advisors LP.  U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote  sentenced Balkany today in
Manhattan. Balkany, 64, was convicted by a federal jury in
November of extortion and blackmail charges after he threatened
to disclose  insider trading  by SAC. There was no evidence at the
trial that he had any such evidence.  “Just because you lead a charitable institution doesn’t
give you a pass to commit extortion and fraud,” Cote told
Balkany in court. “You tried to extort $4 million from a hedge
fund.”  Prosecutors said the rabbi, who was dean of the Bais Yaakov
day school in the Borough Park neighborhood of  Brooklyn , told
the Stamford, Connecticut-based fund that a federal prisoner in
Otisville, New York, to whom he was the spiritual adviser, had
detailed the purported insider trading scheme to him. Balkany
then called prosecutors in an attempt to put pressure upon SAC
to further his scheme.  Cote agreed to impose a sentence less than the 87-to-108
months recommended by federal sentencing guidelines because of
Balkany’s “lifetime of good works” and “generosity of
spirit.” Eighty-seven people, including Alan Vinegrad, the
former U.S. Attorney in Brooklyn, New York, wrote letters in
praise of Balkany, Cote said.  Keep Quiet  In a 15-minute address to the judge, Balkany, the father
of 13 children and grandfather of 35, said he used his money to
support the poor, disabled and emotionally distraught. He said
his school accepted poor children that other institutions
rejected. He denied allegations by prosecutors that he
previously committed other crimes, insisting that he followed
the law and didn’t cut corners.  “For 10 years I did not take a salary because they did not
have the money,” Balkany said of his school.  “We took our money and we gave it to the hungry and the
poor,” he said of his family.  Witnesses testified at trial that Balkany told a lawyer for
SAC that the inmate would keep quiet about alleged illegal
trading by the hedge fund in 2004 and 2005 if it paid his school
and another school $2 million each.  Showed No Remorse  The lawyer instead recorded his phone calls and meetings
with Balkany, who was arrested after taking two checks from SAC
totaling $3.25 million. Balkany told an SAC official at the time
that the inmate wouldn’t talk to authorities at a meeting
scheduled for the following day. No such meeting was planned,
according to the government.  In sentencing Balkany, Cote said she was particularly
concerned about a recent interview he gave in which he said he
was being punished by the government because of his decades of
community service. Cote said that Balkany showed no remorse.  “The defendant has never come to terms with any of his
criminal violations of the law,” she said.  The case is U.S. v. Balkany, 10cr441, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 