-- 
Buffett Says Pricing Power More Important Than Good Management

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-02-18T05:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/buffett-says-pricing-power-more-important-than-good-management.html
  Warren Buffett , the billionaire
chief executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc ., said he
rates businesses on their ability to raise prices and sometimes
doesn’t even consider the people in charge.  “The single most important decision in evaluating a
business is pricing power,” Buffett told the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission in an interview released by the panel last
week. “If you’ve got the power to raise prices without losing
business to a competitor, you’ve got a very good business. And
if you have to have a prayer session before raising the price by
10 percent, then you’ve got a terrible business.”  Buffett, 80, accumulated the world’s third-largest personal
fortune through a career of stock picks and takeovers. He has
bought companies such as railroads and electricity producers,
whose pricing power stems from a dearth of competitive options
available to clients. Buffett has also built stakes in firms
like  Coca-Cola Co . and  Kraft Foods Inc ., which rely on the
 appeal  of their brands to attract and keep customers.  “The extraordinary business does not require good
management,” Buffett said in the interview, which was conducted
on May 26 in Omaha,  Nebraska .  The FCIC investigators focused on Buffett’s investment in  Moody’s Corp ., the bond-ratings firm blamed by lawmakers for
handing out inflated credit grades during the housing boom.
Buffett said he held stock in Moody’s because the company’s
leading market share, along with that of rival  Standard &
Poor’s , a subsidiary of McGraw-Hill Cos., gave the two firms
flexibility in setting prices.  Pricing Power  “I knew nothing about the management of Moody’s,” said
Buffett. “If you own the only newspaper in town, up until the
last five years or so, you had pricing power and you didn’t have
to go to the office.”  A dominant position can’t prevent a bad manager from
destroying a company over time, said Benjamin E. Hermalin, a
professor of economics at the  University of California ,
Berkeley’s Haas School of Business.  “If you have a really dominant position you can survive
for quite a long time with bad management but eventually it will
catch up to you,” said Hermalin. “In the short run I would
agree with Buffett but in the longer-run perspective there is
something to be said for having a good manager.”  Burlington Northern Santa Fe, the railroad Buffett bought
last year for $26.5 billion, owns more than  30,000 miles  of
track across the U.S. West connecting producers and distributors
of coal, grain and  consumer goods . Omaha-based Berkshire’s power
company, MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., sells electricity to
homes in the Great Plains and transports natural gas from  Wyoming  to  California .  Praise From Buffett  Buffett routinely singles out and praises managers from
Berkshire’s more than 70 operating companies. MidAmerican
Chairman  David Sokol  and Gregory Abel, the unit’s CEO, are “two
terrific managers,” Buffett said last year in his  letter  to
shareholders. The acquisition of Burlington Northern had the
“additional virtue” of bringing the railroad’s CEO, Matthew Rose, to Berkshire, Buffett said.  Buffett criticized Kraft Chief Executive Officer Irene Rosenfeld last year for her takeover of Cadbury Plc and the sale
of the foodmaker’s pizza brands. “Both deals were dumb,”
Buffett told Berkshire investors in May. Berkshire is the
biggest shareholder of Kraft with a stake valued at $3.3 billion
at the end of December.  “In the short run, good management can make a stock pop
but I follow what Warren’s saying, especially because his point
of view looks at the fundamentals,” said Terry Connelly, dean
of the Ageno School of Business at Golden Gate University in  San
Francisco , and a former managing director at Salomon Brothers.
“Good management can’t do anything with a bad case.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net 
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  