-- 
HCA Said to Seek as Much as $30 a Share in IPO

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-02-18T20:02:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/hca-said-to-seek-as-much-as-30-a-share-in-initial-offering.html
HCA Inc., the hospital chain taken
private five years ago in a $33 billion leveraged buyout, plans
to start marketing shares next week for an initial public
offering, said a person familiar with the company’s plans.  HCA will seek $27 to $30 a share when it starts its
roadshow on Feb. 22, said the person, asking not to be named
because the information is private. Existing owners are planning
to sell shares, according to the person. The company, which is
based in Nashville,  Tennessee , said in December that it plans to
sell as much as $4.6 billion in stock.  The hospital operator is trying to go public less than four
months after taking on new debt to pay its owners, including KKR
& Co., Bain Capital LLC and  Bank of America Corp ., a $2 billion
dividend. Private-equity firms, taking advantage of a rally in
leveraged loans and stocks, are stepping up dividend
recapitalizations and initial public offerings to return money
to their investors.  KKR is hoping an increase in distributions will encourage
investors to commit capital to its 11th North American buyout
fund.  Officials for HCA, Boston-based Bain, and KKR in New York
declined to comment. A spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America didn’t immediately return a phone call
seeking comment.  Dividends  HCA first filed for a public offering in May, then refiled
in December after selling $1.53 billion of 10.5-year notes to
help pay for the dividend. In the May filing, the company said
it plans to raise a net $2.5 billion of the total by selling new
shares and would use the proceeds to repay debt.  HCA’s owners put up about $5.3 billion to buy the company,
according to a regulatory filing, funding the rest with loans
from banks including Bank of America, Merrill Lynch & Co.,
JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup. Including the November
distribution, the owners paid themselves about $4.3 billion in
dividends last year.  HCA operated 164 hospitals and 106 freestanding surgery
centers as of Dec. 31, according to the company’s yearend
regulatory filing.  The hospital chain’s purchase in 2006 shattered the record
for the largest leveraged buyout, held since 1989 by KKR’s
acquisition of RJR Nabisco Inc. HCA’s record was eclipsed by
Blackstone’s acquisition of Equity Office Properties Trust and
again by the 2007 takeover of Energy Future Holdings Corp., by
KKR and TPG Inc., for $43 billion including debt.    Florida  Governor  HCA was founded in 1968, when Nashville physician Thomas Frist Sr., and his son, Thomas Frist Jr., and Jack Massey built
a hospital there and formed Hospital Corp. of America, one of
the nation’s first hospital companies. Thomas Frist Sr. is the
father of Bill Frist, a physician and the former U.S. Senate
majority leader.  HCA went private in a $5.1 billion leveraged buyout in
1989, and then went public again in 1992, according to the
company Web site.  Rick Scott , the governor of Florida and
founder of Columbia Healthcare Corp., merged his Louisville,
Kentucky-based company with HCA in 1994. He left in 1997 as the
federal government investigated the company’s Medicare-billing
practices.  In December 2000, HCA  agreed  to pay $840 million in
criminal and civil penalties to settle U.S. claims that it
overbilled states and the federal government for health-care
costs. It was the largest government fraud settlement in U.S.
history at the time, according to a U.S. Justice Department news
release on Dec. 14, 2000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  