-- 
California Assembly Democrats May Derail Brown Plan to Dump Redevelopment

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-02-18T21:12:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/california-assembly-democrats-may-derail-brown-plan-to-dump-redevelopment.html
Democrats controlling  California ’s
Legislature said they’d consider alternatives to Governor  Jerry Brown ’s budget-cutting proposal to eliminate redevelopment
agencies, after protest from mayors across the state.  The Assembly budget committee said it wants to find other
ways to save the $1.7 billion that Brown proposed without
eliminating the redevelopment agencies, which use local property
taxes to fight urban blight.  Brown, a 72-year-old Democrat, has offered an austerity
budget that pushes spending  back to 2005  levels and counts on
voters to retain almost $10 billion of temporary tax increases
to prevent deeper cuts amid a $25 billion deficit. Property-tax
revenue that’s now going to redevelopment authorities would be
shifted to school districts and other local government bodies
under Brown’s plan.  “We accept the governor’s approach,” Assembly Budget
Committee Chairman Bob Blumenfield said.  “We also want to make
it clear that we want to see in any reform proposals that would
be offered as an alternative to complete elimination that it
achieves the $1.7 billion of savings, it improves redevelopment,
provides more funding for schools and protects affordable
housing programs.”  Brown’s proposal has met resistance from Los Angeles Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  and other local leaders throughout the
state, who say redevelopment is an important tool to help spur
business and commercial growth in blighted areas.  Redevelopment Law  Under California’s 65-year-old redevelopment law, if a city
or county creates a redevelopment area to address urban blight,
the agency receives related property-tax revenue increases that
may result, known as the tax increment. If there were no
redevelopment district, schools and local governments such as
cities and counties would get those receipts.  Brown’s proposal would use $2.2 billion in revenue freed up
by the move to retire outstanding debt and devote the rest,
almost $3 billion, to schools, health care and the courts. The
state would keep $1.7 billion in the coming fiscal year it
normally sends to schools to make up for the money they don’t
get from property taxes now diverted to redevelopment.  Republican lawmakers expressed skepticism over projections
of $1.7 billion in savings.  “How are these savings going to be accomplished?” asked
Don Wagner, a Republican assemblyman from  Irvine . “Certainly
not in the governor’s proposal. Apparently there are going to be
reforms in lieu of elimination. I don’t know what the means.”  A conference committee made of up lawmakers from the
Assembly and the Senate will write a compromise budget package
beginning next week.  Brown Proposals  Assembly  Democrats pared back some of Brown’s proposals to
cap or eliminate adult day care subsidies, the number of doctor
visits paid by Medi-Cal, the state’s version of the Medicaid
health program for the poor, and vision care for poor children.  The Democrats said they will come up with the money those
proposals would have saved by lowering the proposed $1 billion
budget reserve to $300 million.  The centerpiece of Brown’s spending plan is a proposal to
ask voters in June to extend almost $10 billion of tax and fee
increases that are set to expire this year.  To do that, lawmakers must call a special election to put
that question to voters June 7, the last election day before the
deadline set by the constitution for passing a budget. Election
officials need about three months’ lead time. The plan is
opposed by Republican lawmakers, whose support he’ll need to
obtain a required two-thirds majority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  