-- 
Cameron, Clegg Clash on Change to Voting System That Splits U.K. Coalition

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-02-18T11:29:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/cameron-clegg-clash-on-change-to-voting-system-that-splits-u-k-coalition.html
Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron  is campaigning against changes to Britain’s electoral
system today, clashing directly with his Liberal Democrat
deputy,  Nick Clegg .  A  referendum on May 5  will decide for or against changing
the current first-past-the-post convention in favor of the
alternative-vote system, which allows voters to rank candidates
in individual districts in order, with the second preferences of
lower-scoring candidates redistributed until someone has the
support of 50 percent of electors. The referendum was a key
demand of the  Liberal Democrats  for joining a coalition with
Cameron last year, ousting Gordon Brown’s Labour government.  Clegg’s party has long supported changing first-past-the-
post, under which smaller parties struggle to get enough votes
in any district to win a seat. The  Conservatives , though, fought
last May’s election opposing any change to the voting system.  “AV will actually make politics less accountable and make
it much harder to kick out governments,” Cameron said in a
speech in London. “If the last election was under AV, there
would be the chance right now that  Gordon Brown  would still be
prime minister.”  ‘Voices Going Unheard’  The first-past-the-post system “is out of date and it is
at the heart of so many of the reasons that people don’t trust
in or care about politics,” Clegg said in a speech in Leeds,
northern  England . “It means most MPs are elected without the
support of most of the people they are supposed to represent. It
means millions of votes make no difference whatsoever. It means
millions of voices going unheard.”  Clegg said that lawmakers in “safe” districts were the
worst offenders in the expenses scandal that hit the last
Parliament and a change in the system would make them more
accountable.  “We have a real problem, people aren’t engaged enough in
politics and don’t feel they’re in charge enough,” Clegg said
in an interview with BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show. “People want
more choice now and crucially, after the expenses scandals, they
want politicians to work much, much harder for their votes.”  Cameron argued that AV “makes some votes count more than
others. There’s an inherent unfairness under AV. Supporters of
unpopular parties end up having their votes counted a number of
times.”  ‘Enough Allies’  The  coalition agreement  allows the parties to run opposing
campaigns on electoral reform. Even so, Cameron must balance
satisfying his own lawmakers that he is protecting their
interests, while keeping sufficiently distant from the
campaigning to protect the office of prime minister,  Andrew Russell , a lecturer in politics at Manchester University, said
in an interview.  That’s why Foreign Secretary  William Hague , a Tory
grassroots favorite, is heading an e-mail campaign for the
“no” vote, Russell said. “Cameron has enough allies to press
the right buttons within the party while remaining aloof from
the fray,” he said.  The campaign gives Clegg a rare chance to campaign against
the Conservatives, allowing him to assert his party’s
independence and demonstrate to supporters that the Liberal
Democrats have not become merely an appendage to Cameron’s
government in accepting demands for the biggest budget cuts
since World War II and increases in student tuition fees.  Still, if Clegg doesn’t secure a “yes” vote in May, his
authority may be undermined and Liberal Democrat supporters may
question whether they should continue to support a coalition
that hasn’t taken concrete steps to change the electoral system,
something for which the party has campaigned for decades.  ‘Short-Changed Again’  Losing the referendum “could be very divisive for the
Liberal Democrats, because they will be seen to be on the losing
side to the Conservatives,” Russell said. “Observers will say
they have been short-changed again by the coalition.”  Even so, the outcome of the referendum won’t affect the
coalition, Clegg and Cameron said.  “Whatever the result we will work together in the national
interest,” Clegg said in Leeds.  “On this one I do not agree with Nick,” Cameron said.
“But this is not and should not be a source of tension and it’s
not a coalition breaker either.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  