-- 
Campbell Declines Most in 2 Years on Forecast Cuts

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-02-18T21:22:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/campbell-cuts-2011-forecasts-for-earnings-sales-on-intense-competition.html
  Campbell Soup Co ., the world’s
largest soup maker, fell the most in two years after cutting
2011 forecasts for profit and sales, citing intensifying
competition.  Sales may drop as much as 1 percent, Campbell said today.
That compared with a previous forecast of at least a 1 percent
increase. Earnings will fall as much as 3 percent, or to $2.40 a
share, compared with earlier predictions of a gain. Analysts had
projected $2.51 on average, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Chief Executive Officer Douglas Conant said increasing
spending on promotions failed to boost revenue as much as
expected last quarter, with U.S. soup sales declining 4 percent.
That business, whose brands include the Chunky line, accounts
for about 40 percent of sales at Camden, New Jersey-based
Campbell.  “The shares will be down today and will likely hold here
over the next several months as we await a better soup
performance,”  Christopher Growe , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus
& Co., said in a note to clients today. The St. Louis-based
analyst recommends holding the shares.  Campbell fell $1.36, or 3.9 percent, to $33.58 at 4:02 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
decline since February 2009.  Conant said last year that he will step down as CEO July
31, and operations chief Denise Morrison, who has overseen the
company’s U.S. soup business, will succeed him. Morrison
spearheaded a push to cut sodium in soups, helping Campbell more
than quadruple its products with lower sodium levels over the
past five years. That has so far failed to lift sales of ready-
to-eat soups, which fell 4 percent in the second quarter.  Other Meals  This is the second time Campbell has cut its annual sales
forecast for its fiscal year. Revenue has dropped for three
straight quarters as other quick-to-make meals, such as macaroni
and cheese or frozen pizza, gained favor with shoppers.  Campbell also joined foodmakers such as Kraft Foods Inc.
and  Kellogg Co . in highlighting increasing raw-materials costs
as a challenge. The company plans to raise prices on soups in
the U.S. to help make up for the expense, Chief Financial
Officer Craig Owens said on a conference call today.  Net income in the second quarter ended Jan. 30 fell 7.7
percent to $239 million, or 71 cents a share, from $259 million,
or 74 cents, a year earlier. Sales dropped 1.2 percent to $2.13
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Alnwick in New York at 
 jalnwick@bloomberg.net   Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  