-- 
Canada January Inflation Slows to 2.3% on Abating Energy, Clothing Costs

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-02-18T12:45:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/canada-january-inflation-slows-to-2-3-on-abating-energy-clothing-costs.html
  Canada ’s inflation rate slowed in
January on a moderation in energy costs and a decline in
clothing prices, government figures showed.  The  consumer price index  rose 2.3 percent from a year
earlier after a 2.4 percent gain in December,  Statistics Canada 
said today. The core inflation rate, which excludes eight
volatile items such as gasoline, slowed to 1.4 percent from 1.5
percent. Economists forecast inflation would be 2.4 percent and
the core rate 1.5 percent, according to the median of 23 and 22
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The economy has “considerable slack” that is helping
restrain price increases, the  Bank of Canada  said last month.
Governor  Mark Carney  will raise his key interest rate to 1.25
percent by midyear from 1 percent as the recovery builds,
according to a Bloomberg survey. Other reports in the last month
have shown gains in exports and employment that were faster than
economists had predicted.  “Given the solid gains we have seen since the end of
January we are going to see some pressures start to build” for
inflation, said John Clinkard, chief economist at Deutsche Bank
Canada in Toronto. “This is probably going to force the bank’s
hand in April.”  Canada’s currency traded at 98.38 cents per  U.S. dollar  at
7:38 a.m. in Toronto, compared with 98.43 cents yesterday. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0165.  Energy Prices  Energy prices rose 9 percent in January from a year
earlier, versus a pace of 10.5 percent in December, Statistics
Canada said. Clothing prices fell 2.4 percent, the only one of
eight major categories to do so, the report said.  The transportation costs category rose 4.8 percent in
January from a year earlier, and alcohol and tobacco costs rose
3.1 percent, Statistics Canada said.  On a monthly basis, overall consumer prices rose 0.3 in
January after they were unchanged the previous month. The core
rate was unchanged after it fell by 0.3 percent in December.  Economists predicted that monthly prices would rise 0.3
percent, and the core rate would rise by 0.1 percent on the
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 