-- 
Cenovus Expects Higher Labor Prices This Year

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-02-18T21:11:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/cenovus-expects-higher-labor-prices-to-boost-2011-costs-by-5-.html
  Cenovus Energy Inc .,  Canada ’s fifth-
largest energy company, expects rising labor costs this year to
push production expenses higher as the oil-sands operator
expands output.  Costs will increase between 3 percent and 5 percent this
year “mainly due to labor,” Cenovus said today in a statement.
The company plans to attract workers in small towns outside of
Fort McMurray,  Alberta , the center of oil-sands operations, to
control price increases.  “We are starting to see a boost in activity, especially
the labor rates,” said Harbir Chhina, who heads the company’s
oil sands operations, during an investor conference call today.
“But over the next five years we have a number of initiatives
to lower costs, including reducing downtime and chemical
usage.”  Higher operating costs are also affecting other non-
conventional oil and natural gas producers. Surging competition
for shale-oil drilling services has pushed costs up 16 percent,
and expenses are expected to continue rising at least through
the first half of 2011, analysts said.  A lack of crude oil trucking and availability of so-called
frack equipment has created a “pinch point” in the Eagle Ford
shale formation of  Texas , EOG Resources Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Mark Papa said today in a conference call with analysts
and investors.  “If you had an oil trucking company in the Eagle Ford area
right now, you’d be rich,” Papa said.  Alberta’s oil sands are located in the northeast corner of
the province and operators are forced to import most equipment,
including pumps and cokers, along a single highway from
Edmonton. That creates production cost inflation, executives
have said.  Profit Falls  Calgary-based Cenovus said today that operating profit fell
17 percent to C$140 million ($142.5 million) in the fourth
quarter. The company spent C$706 million on  capital investment 
in the quarter, a 39 percent increase.  The company is expanding its Christina Lake and Foster
Creek in-situ projects with additional well pads. Oil-sands
production on the company’s properties will continue to expand
“for years,” it said in today’s statement.  Cenovus fell 8 cents to C$36.51 as of 4:10 p.m. in trading
on the Toronto stock exchange. The company is valued at about
C$26.9 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  