-- 
Charter Falls Most in Year on Margin Dip at Main Unit

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-02-18T16:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/charter-falls-most-in-three-months-as-margin-dips-at-main-unit.html
  Charter International Plc ,  Europe ’s
biggest maker of welding gear, fell the most in a year after it
said margins at its biggest unit fell because it couldn’t pass
on steel price rises to customers.  Growth in Europe, its most profitable market, is likely to
lag behind emerging markets and other developed economies, the
London-based company said in a statement today.  “I am concerned about the margin and how quickly it will
come back,” Brewin Dolphin Holdings Plc analyst Jon Lienard
said in an interview. “The drop-off in margin between the first
half and the second half was more than people expected. Their
key markets do remain in western Europe and they will remain
subdued.”  ESAB, Charter’s welding gear unit, increased sales as the
global economic recovery gathered pace following the financial
crisis. Sales of new equipment at Howden, which makes fans and
compressors for coal-fired power stations, fell, while revenue
from maintenance contracts increased, boosting profit margins.  “ESAB was a little bit more subdued in the second half
than we had expected,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Foster
said in a telephone interview. “The pressures on steel prices
were harder to recover than they normally are.”  The shares fell 54 pence, or 6.8 percent, to close at 734
pence at 4:35 p.m. in  London , the biggest drop since Feb. 19 and
the lowest since Dec. 1. The drop pared the gain in the last six
months to 15 percent. Charter was the second-worst performer
among the 625 companies in the  FTSE All-Share Index .  Charter said net income rose 68 percent last year to 106.6
million pounds ($173 million), or 63.7 pence a share, last year
from 63.5 million pounds, or 37.9 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh News at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  