-- 
China Raises Bank Reserve Ratios to Counter Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-18T12:08:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/china-increases-banks-reserve-ratio-for-second-time-to-curb-property-boom.html
China’s  central bank  raised reserve
requirements for lenders 10 days after boosting  interest rates 
as Premier  Wen Jiabao  tackles accelerating inflation and the
risk of asset bubbles in the fastest-growing major economy.  Reserve ratios will increase half a percentage point
starting Feb. 24, the  People’s Bank of China  said on its website
today in a one-sentence statement. The move will lock up about
360 billion yuan ($55 billion),  Barclays Capital  said.  Lending surged in January and inflation quickened as new  home prices  rose in all but two of 70 cities monitored by the
government, official reports showed this week. Central bank
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said policy makers may also use means
“including rates and currency” to tackle inflation, in an
interview in Paris after today’s announcement.    China  has a profound liquidity and inflation problem that
is, even with this latest tightening, getting further ahead of
policy makers,” said  Glenn Maguire , chief Asia economist at
Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong .  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 0.2 percent at 6:40 a.m
in  New York , while Standard & Poor’s Index futures slipped 0.1
percent.  ‘Just the Start’  “This is just the start from China and they will
continue tightening lending and raising interest rates, doing
their utmost to contain this,” said Philippe Gijsels, the
Brussels-based head of research at BNP Paribas Fortis Global
Markets. “If the Chinese start to take out the liquidity that’s
been so important, it’s got the potential to be a disturbance
for the world’s stock markets.”  In Paris, Zhou said  reserve requirements  are just one tool.  “We can’t really say that it’s the only method that we’ll
use to battle inflation, it’s about using all means including
rates and currency,” he said. “One method doesn’t exclude the
other.” Zhou is attending a gathering of Group of 20 finance
ministers and central bankers.  The yuan earlier rose 0.21 percent to close at 6.5732 per
dollar in  Shanghai , the biggest daily increase in more than a
month.  G-20 policy makers, seeking to tackle economic imbalances
that may have contributed to the global financial crisis,
confront a new threat as higher inflation ripples from emerging
markets to advanced economies.  Global Concern  A report of greater-than-expected U.S. inflation yesterday
followed a jump in the European cost-of-living index to a two-
year high and the pickup in Chinese prices.  “We clearly need to keep inflation at bay,” French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde , host of the G-20 meeting, told
Bloomberg Television. “Too much inflation is not going to be
conducive to growth.”  In China, inflation accelerated to a 4.9 percent annual
pace in January, exceeding the government’s 2011 target for a
fourth month. Banks extended 1.04 trillion yuan ($158 billion)
of new loans, more than double December’s level and sustaining a
pattern of front-loading credit growth at the start of each year.  Reserve ratios stood at 19 percent for the biggest banks
before today’s move, already the highest in more than two
decades, excluding any extra requirements for individual lenders
not publicly announced. The People’s Bank of China has said that
it may use bank-specific requirements this year to control
credit growth.  Grain Production  Companies from Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. to Starbucks Corp.
and  McDonald’s Corp . have raised prices in China and a drought
threatening grain output poses an extra inflation threat.  Inflationary pressure “is still building up and it has
become chronic for the medium term,” Shen Jianguang, a Hong
Kong-based economist with Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd, said in a
note on Feb. 15, citing rising labor and raw-material costs.  The government aims to limit consumer-price gains to 4
percent for the full year, state television reported in December.  China is winding back stimulus policies after record
lending drove the nation through the slowdown caused by the
financial crisis. Officials have now raised reserve requirements
eight times since the start of last year, boosted benchmark
interest rates three times and loosened the yuan’s peg to the
dollar. The key one-year lending rate is 6.06 percent.    China’s economy  expanded 9.8 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, confirming the nation had surpassed
Japan to become the second-biggest economy.  --Zheng Lifei, with assistance from Zijing Wu, Sophie Leung and
Marco Lui. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Peter Hirschberg.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  