-- 
China Home Prices Rise in Most Cities, Defying Curbs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-18T07:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/china-s-new-home-prices-defy-curbs-rising-in-68-of-70-cities-in-january.html
China’s January new  home prices  rose
from a year earlier in all but two of the 70 cities monitored by
the government, defying property curbs to keep housing
affordable.  New home prices in the capital Beijing advanced 6.8 percent
in January from last year, while  Shanghai  climbed 1.5 percent,
the statistics bureau said on its  website  today, initiating a
new method of calculating prices. Haikou had the biggest gain,
surging 21.6 percent, and 10 cities had increases exceeding 10
percent. Housing values in the southeastern city of Quanzhou and
the western city of Nanchong fell.  China extended property curbs last month, including raising
the minimum down payment for second-home purchases, telling
local governments to set price targets on new properties, and
introducing taxes for residential homes in Shanghai and
Chongqing. The central bank raised  interest rates  on Feb. 8 for
the third time in four months.  “The new data clearly shows home prices are still rising
and the government curbs only suppressed transaction volumes,”
said Jinny Yan, Shanghai-based economist at Standard Chartered
Plc. “The ultimate problem is monetary policy -- the government
should at least raise interest rates two more times this year
because if the liquidity is not tightened, it would be
impossible for home prices to fall.”  Stocks Fall  The measure tracking property stocks on the benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.2 percent at the 3 p.m. local
time close, paring a 0.6 percent gain before the data was
released. The real estate index climbed 4.5 percent this year,
compared with the 3.3 percent advance in the benchmark gauge.    New home sales  in Beijing rose 0.8 percent in January from
December and 0.9 percent in Shanghai. Chongqing is the only city
among the 70 that posted a decline from the previous month,
dropping 0.1 percent, the statement said.  Existing home prices in Beijing rose 2.6 percent in January
from a year earlier, while those in Shanghai added 1.7 percent.
Prices of previously owned apartments fell in four of the 70
cities, the government data showed.  “Property prices and sales still remained strong as many
buyers dashed into the market ahead of the government curbs,”
Du Jinsong, a Hong Kong-based analyst for Credit Suisse Group
AG, said before today’s release.  New Calculation    China  stopped releasing national average property prices
and changed the methodology of the survey starting this year,
the statistics bureau announced Feb. 16, to more accurately
reflect price gains.  The agency will continue to monitor 70 big and medium-sized
cities and use online registration data for home transactions
for 35 of them, it said. For cities that don’t have online
registration systems, the bureau will continue to use figures
from local authorities.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged to curb property
speculation and add more affordable housing in his Feb. 1 Lunar
New Year speech. The country needs to “resolutely control the  property market ” and keep prices stable, he said.  “Although property is being targeted with tightening
measures, overall credit growth in the economy remains
expansionary,”  Erwin Sanft , head of China and Hong Kong
research at BNP Paribas SA, said in an e-mail. “The memories of
the 2008 downturn in exports and housing prices are still too
fresh at central and local government level” to create another
downturn.  Beijing’s Curbs  Beijing banned residents from buying more than two homes
and added a requirement for non-residents to provide five years
of tax documentation to buy apartments, the capital city’s
government announced this week.  “The general market is feeling the impact from the curbs
in terms of transaction volume and sentiment,” said James Macdonald, head of China research for Savills Property Services
(Shanghai) Co. “The  market sentiment  has changed quite
significantly with the repetitive government measures that made
the headlines.”  Today’s numbers came after private data indicated strength
in property sales in January. SouFun Holdings Ltd., the
country’s biggest real-estate website owner, said home prices in
100 cities it monitors advanced 1 percent in January from
December, the biggest gain for at least six months. The
government’s figures today also showed all but two cities posted
month-on-month gains in new home prices.  “The January data don’t really reflect whether the
government’s policies are working, because most of these curbs
took place later last month or in February,” said Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities Asia
Ltd.  Vanke, Evergrande  China Vanke Ltd., the country’s biggest developer, said
revenue more than tripled to a record 20.1 billion yuan ($3
billion) in January. Sales for Guangzhou-based Evergrande Real
Estate Group Ltd. jumped 181.6 percent from a year earlier to
9.8 billion yuan, the company said on Feb. 15.  China’s home prices under the old calculation rose for a
19th month, jumping 6.4 percent in December from a year earlier.  China International Capital Corp. cut its 2011 forecast for
the nation’s property transaction volume after the government’s
latest curbs. Transaction volumes are expected to drop 10
percent from a year earlier to 940 million square meters (10.1
billion square feet) in 2011, compared with an earlier estimate
for a 5 percent increase, analyst Bai Hongwei wrote in a report
on Feb. 1.  New lending to developers and mortgage loans may both fall
about 30 percent in 2011, according to the report.  “Demand will be restrained in the beginning of the year
after the government measures,” said Ying Wang, a Beijing-based
property analyst for Fitch Ratings Ltd., who has a “neutral”
view on the sector. China’s home prices will rise about 5
percent to 10 percent this year because property remains hedge
against inflation, Wang said.  --Bonnie Cao. With assistance from Zhe Huang in Beijing.
Editors: Linus Chua,  Malcolm Scott .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Beijing at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  