-- 
China Leads Fight Against West's Economic Formula in Scrap at G-20 Meeting

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-02-19T12:07:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/china-leads-fight-against-west-s-economic-formula-in-scrap-at-g-20-meeting.html
  China  led resistance to making
bulging foreign-exchange reserves a measure of economic
imbalances as Group of 20 finance officials struggled for
consensus on realigning the skewed world economy.  Sparring over early warning indicators reflected the split
among fast-growing emerging countries and debt-laden advanced
economies over how to prevent a repeat of the harshest recession
since World War II. A deal remained elusive as of early
afternoon, two G-20 officials said.  “G-20 discussions to date have revealed a limited
willingness of countries genuinely to coordinate over policies
outside a global crisis,”  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said as the two-day Paris meeting got under way yesterday. “The
major surplus and deficit countries are currently pursuing
economic strategies that are in conflict.”  With the world recovery entering a second year, the unity
forged during the crisis is dissipating as up-and-coming powers
challenge the deficit-scarred West’s formula for managing the
international economy.  China will remain the world’s fastest growing major economy
in 2011, with a 9.6 percent expansion, the  International
Monetary Fund  predicts. The Washington-based lender sees 3
percent growth in the U.S. and 1.5 percent in the 17-nation euro
area.  ‘Reasonable Forecast’  “Most people see a world in which the emerging world’s
growing 5, 6 percent; we’re growing between 3 and 4 percent,
Europe and Japan somewhere between 1 and 2 percent,” U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in Paris yesterday.
“That seems a reasonable forecast.”  In a concession to U.S.-led pressure to push up its
currency, China raised bank-reserve requirements yesterday for
the eighth time in a year and indicated that a four-month old
cycle of interest-rate rises will go on.  The yuan advanced to 6.5732 per dollar, the highest since
late 1993, and Chinese officials signaled that further gains are
in the offing to muffle domestic inflation and spur export-led
growth in the U.S. and  Europe .  Higher reserve standards are not “the only method that
we’ll use to battle inflation, it’s about using all means
including rates and currency,” People’s Bank of China Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan said in an interview in Paris yesterday. “One
method doesn’t exclude the other.”  Defusing Tension  While the Chinese moves may have defused some tension at
the meeting, western officials continued to push for a longer-
term yuan boost and a realignment of the global economy to stoke
growth.  China’s “moves with respect to their currency have been
relatively minor,” Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told
Bloomberg Television yesterday. “It’s important as part of
rebalancing they are more flexible with respect to their
currency. China promised to do more.”  Finance ministers and central bankers from the G-20,
representing about 80 percent of world output, came with scaled-
back ambitions. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  welcomed them
to Paris by dropping last year’s talk of a relaunch of the
global monetary system to end the U.S. dollar’s supremacy.    France ’s main aim for the meeting, which ends in late
afternoon, is to move toward an accord on the use of economic
indicators to monitor the trade and investment distortions that
pitched the world into crisis.  ‘Endless Discussion’  “I hope that your discussions will avoid getting bogged
down in endless discussions on these indicators,” Sarkozy told
the finance officials late yesterday at his Elysee Palace.  European Union officials want the scorecard to include the
current-account balance, public deficit and debt, savings ratio,
net foreign assets, reserve adequacy, real effective  exchange
rate  and private debt, according to an EU position paper.  Chafing at restraints imposed by the richer world, the
rapidly growing BRIC states --  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China -
- don’t want the scorecard to include the current account, the
broadest measure of trade in goods and services.  China has “its own view” on the current account, Flaherty
told reporters. He said it is “likely” that the imbalance
measure will include public and private debt.  Germany  plumped
for those two along with current account, the real exchange rate
and currency reserves.  Russia refused to make management of its foreign-exchange
reserves -- the world’s third-biggest stash, at $449 billion --
the subject of international bargaining.  Imbalances Ebbing  “If the U.S. and the U.K. will put an amount of reserves
as a kind of indicator, that’s our biggest concern,” Russian
Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  told reporters in Paris
yesterday.  In any event, imbalances are ebbing. The IMF predicts that
China’s current-account surplus will narrow to 5.1 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011 from as high as 10.6 percent in
2007, while the U.S. shortfall slims to 2.6 percent from 5.1
percent.  Moves are also afoot to bind China more closely into the
world economy by adding the yuan to the IMF’s synthetic currency
basket, known as special drawing rights.  Created in 1969 and last reweighted in November, the SDR is
a composite of the dollar, euro, Japanese yen and British pound,
though its role in financial markets is minimal.  Current SDR rules would require China to first make the
yuan fully convertible, a step that would put it on the upward
track desired by the U.S. and Europe.  “We will discuss ways to enlarge the SDR basket,” German
Deputy Finance Minister Joerg Asmussen said in a Bloomberg
Television interview yesterday. “One might think of adapting
the rules in order to ease the way for more currencies to be
part of the SDR.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Paris at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  