-- 
China Money Rates Set for Weekly Gain on Sinopec Debt Offering

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-18T04:02:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/china-money-rates-set-for-weekly-gain-on-sinopec-debt-offering.html
China’s money-market rates headed
for a weekly gain on speculation demand for funds will increase
as investors prepare for  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp .’s
convertible bond sale next week.  The biggest oil refiner in  Asia  said it will issue 23
billion yuan ($3.5 billion) of six-year convertible bonds on Feb.
23, according to a Shanghai stock exchange filing yesterday. The
seven-day repurchase rate rose, even after the central bank
added a net 55 billion yuan through open market operations, the
14th weekly injection, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors, mainly bond funds, will be eager to buy the
convertible bonds,” said Chen Liang, a fixed-income analyst at
Guohai Securities Co. in Shenzhen. “The issuance may lock up
about 1.2 trillion yuan and the repo rate may rise above 4
percent. The effect, however, is short-term.”  The seven-day repo rate, which measures interbank funding
availability, gained 16 basis points this week to 2.81 percent,
according to a daily fixing rate from the Interbank Funding
Center published at 11 a.m. in  Shanghai . The rate declined 12
basis points today.  The central bank yesterday kept the yield on three-month
bills unchanged at 2.6242 percent, after allowing it to gain for
four sales, according to a statement on its website.  “The central bank will probably continue to inject money
into the financial system in the following weeks because the
bills’ low yields won’t help increase demand from banks,” said
Liu Junyu, a Shenzhen-based bond analyst at  China  Merchants Bank
Co., the country’s sixth-largest lender by market value.  Bonds Advance  The People’s Bank of China has raised major lenders’
reserve-requirement ratios seven times since the start of last
year to help drain funds from the financial system. Benchmark
interest rates were boosted last week for the third time in four
months to help damp inflation.  The yield on the 3.77 percent government bonds due December
2020 dropped eight basis points for the week to 4.05 percent and
was unchanged from yesterday, according to the National
Interbank Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  One-year interest-rate swaps, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell three basis
points for the week to 3.82 percent. The rate declined one basis
point from yesterday.  -  Judy Chen . Editors: Andrew Janes, Simon Harvey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 