-- 
Russian Finance Minister Kudrin Says China Failing to Drive Global Growth

-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 
2011-02-18T12:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/china-is-failing-to-drive-global-growth-kudrin-says-update1-.html
  China  is failing to lift the global
economy because of its weak consumer demand and countries across
the globe are reverting to pre-crisis models of growth, Russian
Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said.  China’s domestic demand “remains weak,” and the country
may not be able to regain its role as the “locomotive of the
world economy,” Kudrin said at a conference today in the
Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk.  “Many countries are returning to pre-crisis models through
sheer inertia, even though the world crisis has reduced global
imbalances,” Kudrin said. The U.S. is continuing to run a
current-account deficit after relying on consumer demand to spur
growth, he said.  Group of 20 governments failed to agree on shrinking
current-account shortfalls during a meeting in  Seoul  last
November. Debt and deficits, as well as the size of foreign-
exchange reserves, savings ratios and growth differentials, are
among the indicators that French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  put up for discussion among G-20 ministers the next two
days in Paris.  U.S. Current Account  The U.S. current-account deficit widened to $127.2 billion
in the third quarter, reflecting an increase in imports, a
Commerce Department report showed on Dec. 16. The shortfall,
which is the broadest measure of international trade that
includes income payments and government transfers, was the
biggest in almost two years.  China, which overtook Japan as the world’s second-biggest
economy last year, reported a smaller-than-forecast January
trade surplus of about $6.5 billion, the smallest in nine
months, as a rebounding economy and rising commodity costs
helped drive a 51 percent gain in imports.  China is facing renewed pressure to push up the yuan after
it allowed the currency to strengthen since a two-year dollar
peg was scrapped on June 19. G-20 nations are likely to discuss
the yuan’s value in Paris this week. U.S. lawmakers are
reintroducing legislation targeting China and Brazil may discuss
its concerns with President  Barack Obama  next month.  “More flexible exchange rates are needed,” Kudrin said
today. “Currency wars are set off when that isn’t accomplished,
and it’s something we may face.”  ‘Currency War’  Central banks in countries including Japan, Brazil, and  South Korea , have intervened in  currency markets  or put up
capital control barriers in recent weeks to prevent their
currencies from strengthening in a bid to boost exports.  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  warned of a global
“currency war” last September as his country weighed a higher
tax on capital inflows.  Higher energy prices are spurring capital inflows and
currency appreciation in Russia, threatening to “reproduce pre-
crisis trends,” Kudrin said.  The ruble, which has led gains among emerging-market
currencies over the past three months, strengthened 0.1 percent
today to 29.24 per dollar. Non-deliverable forwards, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements, put the
ruble at 29.4545 per dollar in three months.  Russian dollar bonds outperformed the debt of all 21  developing countries  tracked by  JPMorgan Chase & Co . this year,
cutting yields to the lowest relative to the global average in
10 months yesterday.  ‘New Sources’  Russia, which overtook  Saudi Arabia  as the world’s biggest
oil producer in 2009, according to a June report by  BP Plc ,
derives about 25 percent of its economic output from oil and
natural gas.  Energy accounted for 71 percent of Russian exports to the
Baltic states and countries outside the former  Soviet Union  last
year, government data show. Urals crude, the country’s chief
blend, has climbed more than 8 percent this year to as high as
$101.11 a barrel.  The country needs “new sources of economic growth” to
achieve GDP expansion “substantially” above 6 to 7 percent,
Kudrin said. While the country may post a “stable” rate of 4
percent in the next few years, that won’t be sufficient to catch
up with the world’s leading economies, he said.  Gross domestic product grew 4 percent in 2010 after
shrinking 7.8 percent a year earlier. The government predicts
GDP will rise 4.2 percent this year, or less than half the 10
percent target set by President  Dmitry Medvedev  to pull the
country in line with China,  Brazil  and  India .  Foreign direct investment in Russia slipped by about a
third last year to between $12 billion and $14 billion, Kudrin
said, citing preliminary estimates.  Budget Balance  The Russian government targets balancing the budget by
2015, based on an average price for Urals crude of $75 a barrel
in 2011 and $78 in 2012.  The shortfall may fall below 3 percent
of GDP this year, from 3.9 percent in 2010, according to Kudrin.  An Economy Ministry proposal to maintain a budget deficit
of as much as 2 percent in 2015 to 2017 to support innovation
“has no right to exist” and “needs to be substantially
amended,” Kudrin said.  “In effect, it increases reliance on oil, and that amounts
to an even bigger risk for the economy than there was prior to
the crisis,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Krasnoyarsk,  Russia  at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Abelsky at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net . 