-- 
China Car Sales Growth Slows to 16% as Incentives End

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-18T05:52:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/china-s-car-sales-growth-slows-to-16-after-tax-incentives-end.html
  China ’s passenger-car sales growth
in January slowed from a year earlier after government
incentives that boosted vehicle purchases ended in the world’s
largest auto market.  Sales of passenger cars including multipurpose and sport-
utility vehicles increased 16.2 percent from a year earlier to
1.53 million last month, the  China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers  said today in a statement. Sales in December 2010
gained 18.6 percent from a year earlier.  Demand grew at a slower pace after China reinstated a 10
percent sales-tax rate on small cars this year and phased out
subsidies for vehicle trade-ins in rural areas. A consumption
tax of 7.5 percent helped increase deliveries by automakers
including  General Motors Co .,  Volkswagen AG  and  Toyota Motor
Corp . last year, as overall vehicle sales surged 32 percent to a
record 18.06 million.  “A lot of people rushed to finish their purchases before
the year-end to enjoy the tax incentives,” said Jenny Gu, an
analyst at J.D. Power & Associates in  Shanghai . Gu estimates
Chinese passenger-car sales will grow 10 percent this year.    China’s economy  grew 10.3 percent in 2010, the fastest pace
in three years, as industrial production and retail sales picked
up, the statistics bureau said Jan 20. The country has grown at
an average 11.4 percent pace over the past five years.  Economic Expansion  The economy is expected to expand 9.5 percent this year,
according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of eight
economists.  Total vehicle sales gained 13.8 percent in January to 1.89
million, the auto association said.  Sales growth will be between 10 percent and 15 percent this
year, the association estimated last month. The pace may
fluctuate in the first quarter as cities adopt measures to curb  car ownership  and ease traffic congestion, Gu Xianghua, the auto
association’s deputy secretary general, told reporters in
Beijing on Jan 10.  Beijing announced in December it would cap total new car
licenses in the capital at 240,000 this year, with 88 percent
going to individual buyers.  Such measures have hurt sales at dealerships in the city.
Deliveries at Beijing Asia Games Village Automobile Exchange,
the city’s biggest auto dealer, fell 75 percent last month, Guo
Yong, one of its managers, said yesterday.  “Consumers are holding back buying because they haven’t
successfully bid for a license,” Guo said. “Even if they have
one, some are still waiting to see if there will be price cuts.”  GM, VW Sales  Still, economic growth and a 3,000 yuan ($455) government
subsidy for fuel-efficient vehicles will continue to support
buying, said Lin Huaibin, a Shanghai-based analyst at IHS
Automotive.  GM, China’s largest foreign automaker, boosted sales in the
country 22 percent to a record 268,071 vehicles last month, the
company said last week. The Detroit-based automaker expects
industrywide auto sales in China to increase as much as 15
percent this year, Tim Lee, president of its international
operations, said Jan. 27.  Volkswagen, the second-biggest foreign automaker, boosted
January sales of VW-brand cars in China and  Hong Kong  29 percent
to 175,000, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company said Feb. 11.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  