-- 
Christie Vetoes New Jersey Democrats' $600 Million `Back to Work' Measures

-- B y   S t a c i e   S e r v e t a h
-- 
2011-02-18T20:47:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/christie-vetoes-new-jersey-democrats-600-million-back-to-work-measures.html
  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
vetoed 14 Democratic-sponsored bills aimed at boosting the
economy and creating jobs, saying it would be reckless to
approve spending legislation outside the budget process.  “We cannot continue to do this type of irresponsibility in
terms of budgeting,” Christie told reporters today in Trenton,
the capital. The measures would cost $600 million in the next
fiscal year and billions of dollars over time, he said.  Democratic lawmakers have been urging Christie, a first-
term Republican, to sign 30 bills they sent him in the past two
months as part of their “Back to Work NJ” package. Their
measures would have cut the corporate tax, boosted business-
creation incentives and started a job-training program for the
unemployed. Democrats control both houses of the Legislature.  Of the remaining 16 bills, Christie said he may send some
back to lawmakers with proposed changes, a so-called conditional
veto.  Christie, 48, said he was pleased to see that the bills
included some of his own proposals, which he expects to identify
during his budget address on Feb. 22. All spending proposals,
even “tax cuts which New Jerseyans deserve, must be considered
in the context of the state’s fiscal condition and ability to
pay for them,” he said.  ‘Disgusting’ Move  Assembly Majority Leader  Joseph Cryan , a Union Democrat,
called the vetoes “disgusting.” Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a Democrat from  East Orange , said the governor’s action
“shows a complete disregard for the residents and businesses
struggling to stay afloat in Chris Christie’s New Jersey.” Both
lawmakers spoke in a statement.  The measures vetoed would have permitted small businesses
and those owned by women and minorities in urban areas to
qualify for state economic-development loans; allowed tax
credits for rehabilitating historic properties, hiring interns
and investing in emerging-technology businesses; and provided a
“single-sales” formula for the corporate tax that would base a
company’s levy on the portion of sales made in New Jersey.  Other bills would have permitted developers to qualify for
low-interest loans when building energy-efficient buildings, and
expanded the state’s tax-credit program for film and digital-
media production.  Christie declined to say which measures might be included
in his proposed budget for the fiscal year that begins July 1.
The governor declined to comment on his proposed spending plan
before his address next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stacie Servetah at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 