-- 
Citigroup May Award $11.9 Million to Four Senior Executives

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 
2011-02-19T01:04:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/citigroup-gives-havens-three-executives-11-9-million-of-incentive-awards.html
  Citigroup Inc ., the third-largest
U.S. bank by assets, will split at least $11.9 million among
four executives if the company meets profit thresholds set at
less than half what the lender generated since 2009.  The executives, including Chief Operating Officer  John Havens , 54, and Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach , 57, will
get a percentage of cumulative pretax income at the New York-
based bank’s Citicorp division if that figure exceeds $12
billion over the next two years, according to a filing. Citicorp
reported $27.7 billion of cumulative pretax profit in 2009 and
2010, based on the definition in the new filing.  Based on one analyst forecast, the payday could be four
times bigger. Oppenheimer & Co. analyst Chris Kotowski predicted
in a Nov. 29 note that pretax income at Citicorp -- as defined
by the bank -- will be around $49 billion in 2011 and 2012. At
that level, the executives would share about $48 million,
according to Bloomberg’s calculations.  “If this was set up where they only have to achieve half
of what they achieved in the past two years, then that should be
a lay-up,” said  Gary Townsend , who manages about $2 million of
Citigroup shares for Hill-Townsend Capital LLC in  Chevy Chase ,  Maryland . “I expect that they will do much better in the coming
two years than they have in the past two years.”  Citigroup is rebounding from a $45 billion government
bailout in 2008, which came with government caps on pay. The
funds have since been repaid. Citicorp contains the bank’s
trading,  investment banking  and consumer banking units.  Long-Term Performance  “The profit-sharing program further aligns compensation
with the long-term performance of Citi,”  Shannon Bell , a
Citigroup spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “It
balances incentives and risk to align executives’ interests with
those of Citi’s stockholders.” Bell said awards are subject to
clawbacks. Executives can be compelled to return compensation if
the profits are later found to have been overstated.  Havens will receive at least $5.19 million under the
awards, and Manuel Medina-Mora, 60, chief executive of consumer
banking in the Americas, will be eligible for at least $2.66
million. Alberto Verme, 53, the bank’s head of  Europe , the
Middle East and  Africa , will get an award of at least $2.27
million and Gerspach $1.73 million.  The awards are contingent on a determination by the
company’s chief risk officer that there “has not been a
material adverse change in the risk profile of Citi or  Citibank
NA ,” its primary banking subsidiary, according to the filing.  Controlling Risk  Executives involved in controlling risk at Citigroup aren’t
eligible for these awards, Bell said.  In January 2009, the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
assigned Citigroup a supervisory grade of 4 on a scale of 1 to 5
-- 5 is the worst -- partly because of “serious weaknesses in
liquidity risk management,” according to a document released
this month by the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission.  Citigroup also made awards to “other executives” under
the plan, according to the filing. Bell declined to say how many
executives were eligible for the awards. The bank lists 43
senior leadership committee members on its website.  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54, was not among
the executives. Last month, the Citigroup board awarded Pandit a
$1.75 million salary for 2011. He had taken $1 a year since
February 2009.  “The compensation committee and the board intend to
develop a comprehensive compensation package for Vikram, which
will be disclosed at a later date,” Chairman Richard Parsons
said in the statement.  Final Payment  Pandit and Havens in July will receive the final payment
from a Citi Private Bank account established to hold the
proceeds from the sale of their fund, Old Lane LP. Each of them
got $165 million, or $100 million after taxes, according to
securities filings.  Citigroup last month awarded 2010 stock bonuses valued at
almost $50 million. Six executives, including Havens, Medina-
Mora and Gerspach, also shared “stock salary” last year valued
at more than $37 million on an annualized basis, according to a
Sep. 24 filing. The bank granted 15 executives options on 18.2
million shares as part of their 2010 pay on Feb. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  