-- 
Allstate Sues Citigroup, Deutsche Bank Over Securities

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-02-18T17:58:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/citigroup-deutsche-bank-sued-by-allstate-over-mortgage-backed-securities.html
  Allstate Corp ., the largest publicly
traded U.S. home and auto insurer, sued units of  Citigroup Inc .
and  Deutsche Bank AG  over claims they fraudulently sold hundreds
of millions of dollars of mortgage-backed securities.  Allstate is seeking to recover the lost market value of the
securities, as well as principal and interest payments,
according to complaints filed today in New York state Supreme
Court in Manhattan.  The insurer said it bought more than $200 million of the
securities, backed by residential mortgages, from the Citigroup
defendants and about $185 million from the Deutsche Bank units
after relying on misrepresentations and omissions regarding
underwriting standards, owner occupancy data and loan-to-value
ratios.  “Allstate was made to believe it was buying highly
rated, safe securities,” the Northbrook, Illinois-based company
said in its complaint against New York-based Citigroup.
“Defendants knew the pools were toxic mixes of loans extended
to borrowers who could not afford the properties and thus were
highly likely to default.”    Alexander Samuelson , a Citigroup spokesman, and Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, declined
to immediately comment.  Allstate, which accuses the banks of common-law fraud and
negligent misrepresentation, filed a similar complaint Feb. 15
against  JPMorgan Chase & Co . over $700 million of mortgage-
backed securities.  The cases are Allstate Insurance Co. v. Ace Securities
Corp., 650431/2011, and Allstate Insurance Co v. Citimortgage
Inc. 650432/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 