-- 
Copper Gains First Day in Four on Stronger U.S. Economic Data

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-18T04:52:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/copper-in-london-gains-for-first-day-in-four-paring-second-weekly-decline.html
Copper pared a second weekly drop
after reports from the U.S. showed manufacturing gathered pace
this month, spurring speculation demand may gain in the second-
largest consumer. Aluminum, zinc and lead also climbed.  The metal for three-month delivery on the  London  Metal
Exchange rose for the first time in four days, advancing as much
as 1.2 percent to $9,921 a metric ton. It traded at $9,875 by
12:22 p.m. Shanghai time. Copper for May delivery on the
Shanghai Futures Exchange climbed 0.2 percent to 74,800 yuan
($11,370) a ton by the midday break.  “It’s still in a correction mode, but positive economic
data can offer some support from time to time,”  Pang Ying , a
trader at Shenzhen Rongtop Trading Co., said by phone.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index, a gauge of manufacturing, rose to 35.9 in February, the
highest level since January 2004, and beat the median forecast
of 21 in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Separately, the
Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading indicators rose in
January for the seventh straight month, signaling the expansion
will extend into this year.  “The bearish range breakout along with the bearish
momentum roll is viewed as a healthy correction within the
longer-term bull trend,” said  Barclays Capital  in a note
yesterday. Buying interest is likely at about $9,600, it said.  The Conference Board Leading Index for  China  declined 0.5
percent in December to 154.3, the New York-based research
organization said on its website today. The measure fell for the
first time since 2008.  Mixed Data  It’s “too early to tell” if the world’s second-biggest
economy will have an economic slowdown, Jing Sima, an economist
for the Conference Board, said in a press release. “While the
construction and consumer sectors are weakening, growth in the
industrial sector remains strong.”  China’s January home prices remained steady after the
government rolled out a series of curbing measures, data
released by the National Bureau of Statistics showed today.  “The new data clearly shows home prices are still rising
and the government curbs only suppressed transaction volumes,”
said Jinny Yan, a Shanghai-based economist at Standard Chartered
Plc. “If the liquidity is not tightened, it would be impossible
for  home prices  to fall.”  “We do view credit rationing and a substantial rise in the
reserve requirement ratio of banks as a greater immediate
negative impact to commodity prices,” Walter de Wet, an analyst
at Standard Bank Plc said in a research note yesterday.  Aluminum in London rose 0.6 percent to $2,528 a ton, zinc
gained 1.3 percent to $2,544 a ton, and lead climbed 1.4 percent
to $2,620 a ton. Nickel added 0.4 percent to $28,600 a ton, and
tin advanced 0.7 percent to $31,880 a ton.  -  Helen Sun . Editors:  Richard Dobson , Ravil Shirodkar  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpool4@bloomberg.net  