-- 
Cotton Falls From Record on Signs Global Production to Increase

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-02-18T21:13:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/cotton-falls-from-record-as-cotlook-forecasts-global-supply-to-top-demand.html
Cotton futures fell from a record on
speculation that the global crop will increase, replenishing a
deficit that led prices double in the past five months.  Production will exceed demand by 1.2 million metric tons in
the season starting Aug. 1, making up for about a third of the
shortfall in the past two years,  Cotlook Ltd. , an industry
researcher, said yesterday. Earlier, cotton jumped the most
allowed by ICE Futures U.S. to a record $2.0893 a pound and then
tumbled by the limit.  Prices may “wane over the balance of 2011 as global
production rebounds and inventories begin to rebuild,”  Luke Mathews , a strategist at Commonwealth Bank of  Australia , said in
a report.  Cotton futures for May delivery, the most-active contract
measured by open interest, fell by the maximum of 7 cents, or
3.5 percent, to settle at $1.9493 at 2:33 p.m. on ICE in  New
York .  The price for March delivery dropped 7 cents to settle at
$1.9702 after rising to an all-time high of $2.1102.  Futures jumped by the exchange limit in the past two days.  “The market was going crazy because of short-covering by
mills,” said Ron Lawson, a managing director at Logic Advisors,
a commodity consultant in Sonoma,  California . “We will see a
temporary pullback, but the demand story remains intact.”  World output will gain 13 percent to a record 27.65 million
tons, more than the projected 4.4 percent increase in
consumption Birkenhead, England-based Cotlook said yesterday in
its first estimates for the new season. In  China , the world’s
biggest producer and consumer, output will increase 15 percent,
the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  