-- 
Cotton Jumps to Record for Third Day on Rising U.S. Exports

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-02-18T05:47:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/cotton-futures-surge-by-daily-limit-to-all-time-high-on-increased-demand.html
Cotton futures jumped to a record
for a third straight day in  New York  as exports expanded from
the U.S., the world’s largest shipper.  Cotton for May delivery advanced 7 cents, the most allowed
by the exchange to a record $2.0893 a pound on ICE Futures U.S.
in New York at 2:41 p.m. Singapore time. Prices have gained 44
percent this year, the most of any of the 19 commodities in the
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index.  Exporters in the U.S. sold 181,200 bales of the upland
cotton from the previous harvest in the week to Feb. 10, up 63
percent from a week earlier, and 22 percent from the prior four
week average, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture   said  yesterday.  “Obviously, the information contained a positive slant and
that was continued resilience in U.S. cotton,”  Luke Mathews , a
commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of  Australia , said by
phone from Sydney today. “That’s showing demand still exists at
very, very high prices.”  Since June 1, stockpiles monitored by ICE Futures U.S. have
plunged 84 percent through Feb. 16. Flooding in Australia and
Pakistan and drought in Russia and other parts of  Europe  have
reduced output.  For the year that began Aug. 1,  China  will consume 47
million bales, exceeding domestic output estimated at 30 million
bales, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said on Feb. 9. The
deficit may help drain global stockpiles to 42.8 million bales,
the smallest since 1996, according to the USDA.  Textile mills are buying more fiber as the global economy
recovered from the worst recession since World War II. Costs may
rise for U.S. retailers including Gap Inc., J.C. Penney Co.
because cotton has more than doubled in the past 12 months. Olah
Inc., a U.S. apparel manufacturer that supplies Gap, said it
raised prices for “several products.”  Trading in cotton options was halted by the exchange, which
determined that the synthetic price change for contracts was at
least two times the daily limit, ICE said yesterday in a
 statement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  