-- 
Credit Suisse Must Face Legal Claims by Upscale Resorts in Montana, Idaho

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-02-18T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/credit-suisse-must-face-lawsuit-claims-by-resort-owners-in-idaho-montana.html
Property owners at upscale resorts
in  Montana  and Idaho can sue  Credit Suisse Group AG  for $24
billion over allegations the bank made predatory loans so it
could take over the resorts when the debts couldn’t be repaid.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Ronald Bush in Boise, Idaho, refused
to throw out negligence, conspiracy and breach of fiduciary duty
claims, according to a recommendation and report filed
yesterday. Bush dismissed fraud, misrepresentation and unjust
enrichment claims against Credit Suisse while giving property
owners an opportunity to renew those claims by adding details to
the lawsuit. The bank and real estate brokerage  Cushman &
Wakefield  Inc., also a defendant in the case, won dismissal of
racketeering claims.  The lawsuit was filed in January 2010 on behalf of 3,000
investors who bought land or homes at four developments,
including Tamarack Resort in  Idaho  and the luxury Yellowstone
Club in Montana.  The complaint claims the Zurich-based bank made predatory
loans to developers based on appraisals provided by Cushman &
Wakefield, leaving the resorts with excessive debt while the
bank collected huge loan fees and “and consummated ownership or
control over all but one high-end resort.”  Bush didn’t rule on the merits of the case.  “We welcome the magistrate judge’s recommendations that
many of plaintiffs’ claims should be dismissed,”  Duncan King , a
Credit Suisse spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
remain confident that the remaining claims are without merit and
intend to vigorously defend against them.”  Dwayne Doherty, a Cushman & Wakefield spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message left after regular
business hours yesterday.  The case is L.J. Gibson v. Credit Suisse, 10-00001, U.S.
District Court, District of Idaho (Boise).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  Chicago  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 