-- 
Crooks Get Ideal Conditions for Market Schemes: Susan Antilla

-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 
2011-02-18T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/crooks-get-ideal-market-conditions-for-trade-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
Did somebody say America was having
a hard time getting back to work after the financial crisis and
ensuing recession? Forget the dopey career counselors who are
coaching you to earn a new degree. There’s a job sector poised
to enter a new golden age, and it doesn’t even require a high
school diploma. So all you aspiring millionaires had better
listen up.  “This is a perfect time if you want to be a crook,” says
Joseph Borg, the 16-year veteran securities regulator who runs
the Alabama Securities Commission. Borg, who has seen his share
of creepy wrongdoers, doesn’t mean just any kind of crook, of
course. He’s talking about lawbreakers who sweet-talk investors
out of their money with everything from misleading products and
promises to bogus tax shelters, real estate pools and Ponzi
schemes.  Why now? Because everything is going right for you if
you’re in the business of cheating investors, that’s why. In
fact, I’ll count down 10 good reasons:  10. The nation’s biggest securities regulator, hardly a
paragon of effective policing in the first place, is being
neutered. Budget constraints at the Securities and Exchange
Commission have meant putting plans on hold for a new Office of
the Whistleblower, among other stalled SEC projects. If you’re a
bad guy at a brokerage firm looking to make a little mischief,
you can rest easier about the risk of a colleague ratting you
out for fun and profit.  9. If you’re looking for easy marks, demographics are on
your side. The over-60 crowd is panicked about the soundness of
the Social Security system and afraid of the stock market. The
75-plus crowd, long enamored with certificates of deposit, is
freaked out that  interest rates  are so low. The former credit-
card junkies now in their 40s and 50s have lost big on their
McMansions and want to make a quick recovery. These groups are
desperate for returns, making them targets for fraud.  8. The trend is your friend if you’re hunting for a new
idea for a bogus product. Inflation worries are picking up, and
if it kicks in enough to hurt, the public will be sitting ducks
for schemes supposedly backed by real estate, gold or silver. If
you see a rising consumer price index, new investment products
with names like “The Inflation Buster” will not be far behind,
says Borg, the securities regulator.  7. Another trend favoring swindlers: Rising gasoline prices
that may lead to new opportunities to package oil and gas
schemes. Once gasoline hits $4 a gallon, investors let down
their guards and become more vulnerable to energy-related scams,
Borg says.  6. State watchdogs are getting more work just as budgets
are under pressure. About 4,000 investment advisers who
previously were regulated by the SEC will begin to be policed by
the states this year. That may be bad news for the advisers --
3,000 of whom have never been examined by the SEC -- because
state regulators say they’ll make inspections a priority. But
some states are reducing oversight in other areas to make time
for the new adviser workload. The cagey crook will find out
which activities are getting less scrutiny.  5. Deregulation is the “it” thing in  Washington , and
that’s a plus if you don’t like regulators breathing down your
neck.  4. Technology is opening new frontiers for cheats. The May
6 so-called flash crash that took the Dow down almost 1,000
points in a matter of minutes was a head-scratcher for
regulators who work with the tech version of Edsels while
traders use state-of-the-art systems. The potential for
manipulation is huge, says Denise Crawford, securities
commissioner of the Texas State Securities Board. “Market
regulators are so behind in that whole area that I’m not sure
they will ever catch up,” she says.  3.  Elizabeth Warren  probably won’t be around for long.
Republicans hate her and she doesn’t have a permanent
appointment to her job as head of the new Consumer Financial
Protection Agency. So if your area of expertise is  mortgage
fraud  or bait-and-switch bank products, it might just be a
matter of waiting it out until the pro-consumer regulator is
shipped back to her gig as a Harvard University professor.  2. Business risk is low. We’re just stumbling back from a
financial crisis, and companies that helped fuel the meltdown
with aggressive accounting or dicey disclosure got bailed out,
not indicted. So what are you worried about?  1. Even if you do get in trouble -- and I’m not saying
that’s likely -- there are great lawyers around to get your
career back on track. Hire one of the stars who cycled through
the SEC before settling in at a law firm. Before you know it,
your lawyer will be swapping stories about the old days over
drinks with an agency pal, and you’ll be back in the game faster
than you can say “regulatory capture.”    Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Susan Antilla in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  