-- 
Oil Rises in New York as Unrest in Mideast Fuels Supply Concern

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-02-18T13:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/crude-rises-in-london-as-protests-in-libya-bahrain-fuel-supply-concern.html
Crude oil rose in  New York , headed
for its first weekly gain in three weeks, as escalating protests
in Bahrain and  Libya  fueled concern that supplies from oil-
producing nations may be disrupted.  Futures gained after protesters in Bahrain called for the
fall of the government as unrest in the Middle East spread to
Libya, where 20 were reported dead in clashes. Oil in New York
also gained as the dollar declined against the euro, enhancing
the appeal of commodities price in the U.S. currency.  “We suspect that the markets will be fairly well-bid
heading into the weekend, as developments in the Middle East
should prevent aggressive short positions from building up,”  Edward Meir , senior commodity analyst at MF Global, wrote in a
note today.  Crude for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was up 35 cents at $86.71 a barrel at 1:19 p.m. London
time. The contract, which expires Feb. 22, has risen 1.3 percent
this week. The more active April contract was up 62 cents at
$89.46 a barrel.    Brent crude  for April settlement was down 35 cents at
$102.24 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. The
contract has risen 0.8 percent this week, its fourth consecutive
increase. The dollar slipped to $1.3633 against the euro, after
trading as high as $1.3546.  Middle East Tensions  Demonstrators in Libya,  Africa ’s biggest holder of crude
oil reserves and ruled by Muammar Qaddafi for more than 40
years, yesterday demanded the government’s overthrow.  At least 20 people were reported killed in confrontations
with security forces as violence broke out during marches
yesterday in five Libyan cities, according to the  Associated
Press , which cited an opposition website and an anti-Qaddafi
activist. The past week has also seen anti-government protests
in Yemen, a producer of liquefied natural gas.  In  Egypt , the Foreign Ministry has received and is studying
a request from  Iran  for two military ships to pass through the
Suez Canal, said Hossam Zaki, a ministry spokesman.  “Two potential triggers for the next move higher would be
an Israeli response to the Iranian warship movement or
escalation of the situation in Libya,” Filip Petersson,
commodity strategist of Stockholm-based consultants SEB
Commodity Research said in a note today.  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa were
responsible for 36 percent of global oil production and held 61
percent of proved reserves in 2009, according to statistics
compiled by BP Plc.  Further Increase Possible  A glut of oil at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
the U.S. futures, has weighed on New York prices relative to
Brent. The difference between April contracts in  London  and New
York was $13.88 a barrel today, compared with $13.75 yesterday.  Oil supplies at Cushing jumped to a record 38.3 million
barrels in the week ended Jan. 28. Inventories were at 37.7
million in the seven days through Feb. 11, according to Energy
Department data.  Prices may increase next week as mounting Middle East
tensions bolster the risk of a disruption of shipments from the
region, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Twenty of 46 analysts,
or 43 percent, forecast crude oil will rise through Feb. 25.
Fifteen respondents, or 33 percent, predicted prices will
decline and 11 estimated little change. Last week, 48 percent
said futures would decrease.  Traders may reduce their futures positions before the
public holiday in the U.S. on Feb. 21 and next week’s
International Petroleum industry gathering in London, said  Olivier Jakob , managing director of Switzerland-based researcher
Petromatrix GmbH.  “Monday will as well be a long weekend and next week
traders will be traveling to London for IP week,” he said.
“Some book-squaring is likely at the end of the day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at   lsu23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  