-- 
Oil Trades Near One-Week High on Economic Outlook, Middle East

-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-02-18T05:34:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/crude-futures-trade-near-one-week-in-new-york-as-mideast-protests-spread.html
Oil traded near a five-day high,
heading for its biggest weekly gain in five, as signs of global
economic growth spurred speculation fuel demand will rise and 
tension mounted in the Middle East.    New York  crude fluctuated after a report showed Taiwan’s
economy expanded faster than forecast,  Vietnam  lifted  interest
rates  yesterday for the first time since November and the U.S.
consumer-price index gained. Brent futures advanced as much as
0.4 percent in  London  after violence broke out during anti-
government marches in Libya, raising concern that supplies from
the eighth-largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will be disrupted.  “Oil’s holding well, which is probably a reflection that
people are quite confident of the economic recovery continuing
this year,” said Selena Ling, head of treasury research at 
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore. “People are a little
bit cautious on the prospect of political unrest spreading to 
the other economies.”  Crude for March delivery was at $86.16 a barrel, down 20
cents, on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:21 p.m.
Singapore time. The contract has risen 0.7 percent this week,
the most since the five days through Jan. 14. The March contract
in New York expires on Feb. 22. April crude gained 3 cents
percent to $88.95.  Brent for April settlement rose as much as 38 cents to
$102.97 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.
The contract is up 1.1 percent this week.  Brent-WTI Spread  A glut of oil at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
the U.S. futures, has weighed on New York prices relative to
Brent. The difference between the April contracts in London and
New York was at $13.70 a barrel today. WTI has averaged about 
90 cents more than Brent in the past 10 years.   “WTI prices do not make any sense, the discount to
European oil is far too big,” said Juerg Kiener, Singapore-
based chief investment officer at Swiss Asia Capital Ltd., a  fund manager . “Geopolitical tensions will remain and as such
any set-back in prices will be a buying opportunity.”  Oil supplies at Cushing jumped to a record 38.3 million
barrels in the week ended Jan. 28. Inventories were at 37.7
million in the seven days through Feb. 11, according to Energy
Department data.  The spread narrowed yesterday from $15.94 on Feb. 16, as
Brent dropped 1.2 percent compared with a 1.6 percent gain in
West Texas crude.  Brent Strength  Brent’s advance above $104 a barrel in intraday trading
yesterday may have prompted some investors to sell contracts and
take profit, said  Victor Shum , a senior principal at consultants
Purvin & Gertz Inc. in  Singapore .  Brent’s 14-day relative strength index, which measures how
fast prices have risen or fallen, advanced to 60 today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A reading of 70 of more
signals to some traders that a market is “overbought.”  “The trend is likely for  oil prices  to strengthen and the
gap to narrow, with WTI catching up with Brent in the coming
months,” Shum said.  U.S. data  yesterday showed the Conference Board’s index of
leading indicators rose for a seventh straight month, while a
Federal Reserve gauge of Philadelphia-area manufacturing topped
economists’ estimates. Figures from the Labor Department showed
the consumer-price index increased 0.4 percent, exceeding the
0.3 percent median estimate of economists.  Economic Growth    Taiwan ’s gross domestic product climbed 6.92 percent in the
three months through December, the statistics bureau said
yesterday. The government’s preliminary estimate was 6.48
percent.  Malaysia’s economy grew 4.6 percent last quarter, following
a 5.3 percent expansion in the previous three months, according
to the median forecast of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News before today’s report.  Thailand ’s economy probably grew 4.1
percent during the quarter, according to a separate survey
before the figures are released on Feb. 21.  Oil prices may increase next week as mounting Middle East
tensions bolster the risk of a disruption of shipments from the
region, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Twenty of 46 analysts, or 43 percent, forecast crude oil
will rise through Feb. 25. Fifteen respondents, or 33 percent,
predicted prices will decline and 11 estimated little change.
Last week, 48 percent said futures would decrease.  Libya’s “Day of Anger” protests against  Muammar Qaddafi 
led to clashes with pro-government forces yesterday in which at
least 19 people were reported killed.  Libya  holds the largest
proven oil reserves in  Africa , with 44.3 billion barrels in
2009, according to BP Plc's Statistical Review of World Energy.  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa were
responsible for 36 percent of global oil production and held 61
percent of proved reserves in 2009, according to BP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  