-- 
Oil Falls First Time in Three Days as China’s Growth May Slow

-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-02-18T08:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/crude-oil-declines-first-time-in-three-days-as-china-s-growth-may-slow.html
Oil fell for the first time in three
days in  New York  because of signs that  China ’s measures to cool
inflation may curb economic growth in the world’s second-biggest
crude user.  Crude declined as much as 0.4 percent after the Conference
Board, a New York-based research organization, said a leading
economic indicator for China dropped for the first time since
2008. West Texas and Brent crude are both poised to gain this
week as tension mounted in the Middle East.  “This year China has, in very quick steps, implemented
quite a few measures -- property curbs, reserve requirement
hikes, interest rate hikes,” said Selena Ling, head of treasury
research at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore. “These
at some stage will have some dampening on  market sentiment .”  Crude for March delivery fell as much as 32 cents to $86.04
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , and was at $86.09
at 3:46 p.m. Singapore time. The contract has risen 0.6 percent
this week, the most since the five days through Jan. 14. The
March contract in New York expires on Feb. 22. April crude was
at $88.85 a barrel, up 1 cent.  Shipping traffic through  Egypt ’s Suez Canal is “normal”
and isn’t affected by a workers’ movement demanding better pay
and working hours, said the chief of navigation at the state-
owned canal authority. Hundreds of workers went on strike
yesterday along the Suez Canal to demand better wages, the New
York Times reported.  Brent for April settlement was at $102.94 a barrel, up 35
cents, on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . The
contract has risen 1.5 percent this week, the fourth consecutive
increase.  Brent-WTI Spread  A glut of oil at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
the U.S. futures, has weighed on New York prices relative to
Brent. The difference between the April contracts in London and
New York was at $13.90 a barrel today, compared with $13.75
yesterday.  “WTI prices do not make any sense, the discount to
European oil is far too big,” said Juerg Kiener, chief
investment officer at Swiss Asia Capital Ltd. in Singapore, a  fund manager . “Geopolitical tensions will remain and as such
any set-back in prices will be a buying opportunity.”  Oil supplies at Cushing jumped to a record 38.3 million
barrels in the week ended Jan. 28. Inventories were at 37.7
million in the seven days through Feb. 11, according to Energy
Department data.  The spread narrowed yesterday from $15.94 on Feb. 16, as
Brent dropped 1.2 percent compared with a 1.6 percent gain in
West Texas crude.  Middle East Tensions    Oil prices  may increase next week as mounting Middle East
tensions bolster the risk of a disruption of shipments from the
region, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Twenty of 46 analysts, or 43 percent, forecast crude oil
will rise through Feb. 25. Fifteen respondents, or 33 percent,
predicted prices will decline and 11 estimated little change.
Last week, 48 percent said futures would decrease.  Libya’s “Day of Anger” protests against Muammar Qaddafi
led to clashes with pro-government forces yesterday in which at
least 19 people were reported killed.  Libya  holds the largest
proven oil reserves in  Africa , with 44.3 billion barrels in
2009, according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy.  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa were
responsible for 36 percent of global oil production and held 61
percent of proved reserves in 2009, according to BP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in  Singapore  at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  