-- 
Oil Falls as U.S. Monitors Iran Plan to Send Warships to Suez

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-02-18T21:26:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/crude-rises-in-new-york-as-protests-in-libya-bahrain-fuel-supply-concern.html
Oil fell for the first time in three
days as the White House said it was “monitoring”  Iran ’s plan
to send warships through the Suez Canal, calming concern that
the move would ratchet up tensions in the Middle East.  March futures slipped 16 cents after rising in earlier
trading amid Mideast unrest. The current New York contract
expires Feb. 22, and participants who haven’t closed out their
positions must arrange for delivery at Cushing,  Oklahoma , where
supplies are near a record. Crude for April increased 1 percent.  “The White House comments seemed to calm the market
down,” said Phil Flynn, vice president of research at PFGBest
in  Chicago . Oil sellers “are going to have to make delivery
into record supplies, and that’s bringing us down despite the
fact that there’s all this tension in the Middle East.”  Crude for March delivery settled at $86.20 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Earlier, it touched $87.88.
Futures gained 0.7 percent this week. The more active April
contract increased 87 cents to $89.71 a barrel.  U.S. financial markets will be closed Feb. 21 for the
Presidents Day holiday.  Egypt today approved Iran’s request to sail the ships
through the canal on their way to Syria, a plan  Israel  has
called a provocation.  “We’re monitoring that, obviously, but we would also say
that Iran does not have a great track record for responsible
behavior in the region, which is always a concern to us,” Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, told reporters
traveling on Air Force One to an appearance by President Barack Obama in  Portland ,  Oregon .  Iranian Ships  The Iranian vessels will anchor in Syria “for a few days”
after a trip through the canal that is “routine according to
international law,” Iran’s state-run Islamic Republic News
Agency said, citing Ahmad Mousavi, the country’s ambassador to  Syria .  Oil supplies at Cushing jumped to a record 38.3 million
barrels in the week ended Jan. 28. The supply glut there has
pressured the price of oil on the Nymex. Cushing inventories
gained 250,000 barrels to 37.7 million in the seven days to Feb.
11, according to an Energy Department report Feb. 16.    Brent crude  for April settlement slipped 7 cents to $102.52
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . The
contract has risen 1.6 percent this week, its fourth consecutive
increase.  The difference between April contracts in London and New
York narrowed for a second day. The spread was $12.81 a barrel,
compared with a record $15.94 on Feb. 16. Brent was $1.28 a
barrel cheaper than Nymex crude a year ago.  New Normal Premium  Brent may trade at a premium of $2 to $3 a barrel above
West Texas Intermediate oil,  Adam Sieminski , chief economist at
Deutsche Bank, said in a note today.  “Global demand is growing faster longer-term for crude
streams tied to Brent,” Sieminski said. This is because of
rising consumption in  Asia  of products such as diesel fuel that
can be refined more easily from crudes tied to the European
benchmark. Brent is an international crude used to price oil in
Europe and Africa.  Previously the market had been led by U.S. demand for
gasoline from West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark for many
North and South American oils, Sieminski said. WTI can more
easily be refined into gasoline.  Bahrain, Libya  Futures advanced in earlier trading as escalating protests
in Bahrain and  Libya  fueled concern supplies from oil-producing
nations in the Middle East will be disrupted. Demonstrators in
both countries called for regime change.  Bahrain, an island in the Persian Gulf, lies off the coast
of Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter. Bahrain has a
majority-Shiite Muslim population and is ruled by the Sunni
Muslim Al Khalifa family.  Saudi Arabia  has a Shiite minority
concentrated in its eastern oil-producing hub that also
complains of discrimination.  “Unless problems facing Saudi Arabia are solved, what
happened and is still happening in some Arab countries,
including Bahrain, could spread to Saudi Arabia, even worse,”
Prince Talal bin Abdul Aziz, a member of the Saudi royal family,
said in an interview with BBC Arabic TV yesterday.  Twenty people were reported dead in clashes in Libya,  Africa ’s biggest holder of oil reserves and the eighth-largest
oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. The North African country has been ruled by Muammar Qaddafi for more than 40 years.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 840,705
contracts as of 3:19 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 976,236
contracts yesterday, 33 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.53 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 