-- 
Debit Fees, Rating Ban, Morris Sentence: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-02-18T12:36:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/debit-card-fees-rating-ban-morris-sentence-compliance.html
Federal Reserve officials yesterday
addressed a Fed proposal to cap debit-card “swipe” fees at 12
cents per transaction.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told lawmakers that the
central bank’s governors are uncertain that lenders with less
than $10 billion in assets would be helped by an exemption from
the rule.  “We are not certain how effective that exemption will
be,” Bernanke said yesterday at a Senate Banking Committee
hearing on implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. “It is
possible that because merchants will reject more expensive cards
from smaller institutions, or because networks will not be
willing to differentiate the interchange fee for issuers of
different sizes, it is possible that the exemption will not be
effective in the marketplace.”  Fed Governor Sarah Bloom Raskin, in testimony prepared for
a separate hearing yesterday before the  House Financial Services
a Committee , said the rule “may result in significant market
changes.” Citing the “novelty and unusual complexity” of the
rulemaking, she said the central bank would “reserve judgment”
on the final language until all the public comments were
received.  Financial services lobbyists are counting on the Republican
majority in the U.S. House to help them reopen the battle they
lost to retailers over the proposed cap.  Large banks stand to lose more than $12 billion in revenue
if the proposal as written by the Fed becomes final. Shares of  Visa Inc . and MasterCard Inc., which set the fees and pass the
money to card-issuing banks, tumbled more than 10 percent after
the proposed rules were made public on Dec. 16, amid investor
concern that the caps will damage their business model.  Retail groups representing 7-Eleven Inc. and  Home Depot Inc 
are pushing for the Fed to keep the proposal the same when it
finalizes the rule under an April 21 deadline. Financial-
services groups speaking for firms including Visa and  Citigroup
Inc . are calling for a suspension of the rulemaking until a
federal study can be conducted on its effects.  Some of Wall Street’s top executives have gone directly to
Bernanke, urging him to withdraw the central bank’s proposal.
The Federal Advisory Council, a group of 12 bankers who consult
and advise the Fed, told Bernanke and his fellow governors in a
Feb. 4 meeting that the proposal “misinterprets and
misapplies” the Dodd-Frank provision, according to a summary
posted on the Fed’s website.  For more, click here. To view the hearings, click here and
click here.  OCC’s Walsh Says Credit-Rating Ban May Block Basel III  The Dodd-Frank Act ban on references to credit ratings in
financial-industry rules should be amended to keep it from
blocking adoption of international capital and liquidity
standards, a top banking regulator told lawmakers.  “Precluding undue or exclusive reliance on credit ratings,
rather than imposing an absolute bar to their use, would strike
a more appropriate balance,” John Walsh, the acting Comptroller
of the Currency, said in testimony prepared for a Senate hearing
yesterday on the financial-regulation overhaul enacted last
year.  Dodd-Frank requires regulators to replace references to
credit ratings with an “appropriate” standard for measuring
creditworthiness. Unless that provision is amended by Congress,
the U.S. will have difficulty meeting the Basel III capital and
liquidity framework adopted last year, Walsh said in comments
prepared for the Senate Banking Committee.  Developing a new credit standard has been challenging for
regulators, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair 
told lawmakers in her prepared remarks.  Credit-rating firms, including  Moody’s Corp . and McGraw-
Hill Cos.’ Standard & Poor’s unit, were targeted by lawmakers
after they issued top rankings to mortgage-backed securities
whose collapse helped spark the financial crisis.  Senators called Walsh and Bair to testify along with
regulators including Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke at
a hearing marking the half-year since passage of Dodd-Frank, the
biggest financial rules overhaul since the 1930s. Agencies are
drafting scores of measures to boost oversight of derivatives,
executive pay and systemically important financial firms.  For more, click here.  Fed Tells U.S. Banks to Test Capital for Recession  The Federal Reserve ordered the 19 largest U.S. banks to
test their capital levels against a scenario of renewed
recession with unemployment rising above 11 percent, said two
people with knowledge of the review.  The banks stress-tested the performance of their loans,
securities, earnings, and capital against at least three
possible economic outcomes as part of a broader capital-planning
exercise. The banks, including some seeking to increase
dividends cut during the financial crisis, submitted plans last
month. The Fed will finish its review in March.  “They’re essentially saying, ‘Before you start returning
capital to shareholders, let’s make sure banks’ capital bases
are strong enough to withstand a double-dip scenario,’” said
Jonathan Hatcher, a credit strategist specializing in banks at
New York-based Jefferies Group Inc. Regulators don’t want to see
banks “come crawling back for help later,” he said.  Executives at banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co . in New
York and  PNC Financial Services Group Inc . in Pittsburgh have
asked regulators for permission to increase dividends. The Fed
has told banks that it expects dividends and share buybacks to
be “conservative” and allow for “significant accretion of
capital,” according to a November notice. Some capital payout
plans may be rejected as “inappropriate,” the notice said.  Federal Reserve spokeswoman Barbara Hagenbaugh declined to
comment on the specifics of the Fed’s parameters.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Ex-Hevesi Adviser Gets Up to 4 Years in Pension Case  Former political consultant Henry “Hank” Morris, who
pleaded guilty to a felony count of securities fraud in a probe
of corruption at the New York state pension fund, was sent to
prison for as long as four years.  Morris, once chief political adviser to former state
Comptroller Alan Hevesi, was ordered yesterday to serve 1 1/3 to
four years by New York state Supreme Court Justice Lewis Bart Stone in Manhattan. Morris admitted in November that the
investment process at the pension fund was manipulated to
benefit him, his associates and contributors to Hevesi’s
campaign.  Morris, 57, was the first to be sentenced of about eight
defendants who pleaded guilty in connection with a probe of
“pay-to-play” at the New York pension fund under Hevesi, who
resigned in 2006 after serving four years. In October, Hevesi
admitted to approving pension fund investments in exchange for
almost $1 million in gifts. He is scheduled for sentencing March
10. The probe was conducted by former New York Attorney General
Andrew Cuomo, a Democrat who is now the state’s governor.  Yesterday’s sentencing “marks the beginning of the end of
criminal proceedings arising out of a massive fraud against the
New York State pension system” during Hevesi’s tenure, Stone
said in a written decision, part of which he read from the
bench. “Morris was Hevesi’s principal legal consultant, the
substantial architect of his political career and a central
figure in the illegal scheme.”  As part of his plea, Morris agreed to forfeit $19 million
in fees Cuomo said he received through 23 state pension-fund
investments for which he acted as an undisclosed placement
agent, or middleman.  “My actions undermined the integrity of New York state’s
government,” Morris told the judge yesterday before he was
taken into custody. “For too long I was blind to that truth.”  The case is People v. Morris, 0025/2009, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Stanford Sues U.S. Prosecutors, SEC and FBI Agents  R. Allen Stanford, the indicted financier, sued U.S.
prosecutors and agents of the FBI and Securities and Exchange
Commission, accusing them of “abusive law enforcement” and
seeking $7.2 billion in damages.  Stanford, who has been held without bail since being
indicted in 2009, filed the lawsuit on Feb. 16 at the U.S.
courthouse in Houston. He is accused of leading a $7 billion
securities fraud scheme and has pleaded not guilty.  “Mr. Stanford contends the named and unknown agents
undertook illegal tactics to prosecute Mr. Stanford, starting
with a civil prosecution by the SEC,” according to the
complaint. The SEC sued him two years ago.  The Texas financier alleges the federal government has used
more than $51 million of his own assets to pursue cases against
him. “The agents have engaged in unfair, abusive law-
enforcement methods and tactics,” he alleged.  Kevin Callahan, an SEC spokesman, declined in an e-mail
yesterday to comment on Stanford’s lawsuit. Citing a court-
imposed gag order in the criminal case,  Laura Sweeney , a Justice
Department spokeswoman, also declined to comment.  Shauna Dunlap, public information officer for the FBI’s
Houston office, where the Stanford investigation is based,
didn’t immediately return calls to her office and cell phone.  The case is R. Allen Stanford v. Stephen Korotosh, 11cv582,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank Ltd., 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  BofA Unit’s Utah Foreclosures Violate Law, State Says  A  Bank of America Corp . unit is conducting home
foreclosures in Utah in violation of state law, the Utah
attorney general’s office said in a federal appeals court case.  ReconTrust Co., a subsidiary of Bank of America, the
biggest U.S. lender by assets, can’t conduct trustee
foreclosures in Utah because it isn’t a member of the state bar
or a title insurance company, Utah Attorney General Mark
Shurtleff wrote in papers filed Feb. 16 with the U.S. Court of
Appeals in Denver.  “ReconTrust Co. N.A. is a non-depository national bank
initiating approximately 4,000 home foreclosures in Utah each
year in violation of Utah law,” the attorney general said.  The court filing was made in a homeowner’s lawsuit against
ReconTrust and Bank of America. The homeowner, Peni Cox, said
ReconTrust doesn’t have authority to conduct foreclosure sales
in the state, according to a court filing.  Jumana Bauwens, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Cox v. ReconTrust Co., 10-04117, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the 10th Circuit (Denver).  U.S. Said to Examine New Apple Service for Antitrust Violations  The U.S. Justice Department and the  Federal Trade
Commission  are beginning to examine whether  Apple Inc .’s new
media subscription service violates antitrust laws, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  The agencies haven’t decided whether to pursue a more
formal investigation as the examination is at a preliminary
stage, said the people, who requested anonymity because the
matter is confidential. The Wall Street Journal reported today
on the preliminary probes.  Justice Department  spokeswoman Gina Talamona declined to
comment, as did an FTC spokeswoman. Steve Dowling, a spokesman
for Apple, didn’t respond immediately to an after-hours e-mail
or phone call for comment. Jill Tan, a Hong Kong-based Apple
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return two calls to her office
and mobile phone seeking comment.  Apple on Feb. 15 said it was starting a subscription
service for publishers to sell newspapers and magazines on the
iPad and other devices through the company’s online App Store.
Cupertino, California-based Apple will take a 30 percent cut of
any subscription purchased through the App Store. Publishers
that participate will have to offer their lowest subscription
rates within Apple’s store.  The following day,  Google Inc . unveiled a rival service in
which the company would keep 10 percent of fees charged by
publishers.  The FTC has been reviewing separate allegations that Apple
is engaging in anti-competitive tactics to restrict rivals in
the mobile-advertising market. The Justice Department is looking
into Apple’s business practices regarding its iTunes digital
music service.  Barclays Deregisters U.S. Unit After Capital Requirement Change    Barclays Plc , the U.K.’s third-largest bank, deregistered
Barclays Group U.S. as a bank-holding company, partly to
sidestep capital requirements mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act.  “The purpose of the restructuring was to better align the
businesses with the appropriate capital regimes,” the London-
based lender said in an e-mailed statement today.  The U.S. Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 will require the U.S.
holding companies of overseas banks, such as Barclays, to comply
with the same capital rules as domestic lenders. They were
previously exempt as long as their foreign parents were
regulated by a U.S.-recognized entity.  Without the move, Barclays would have needed to add $12
billion to the U.S. bank-holding unit, according to the Wall
Street Journal, which reported the move earlier today.  Before the change, Barclays Capital was held within
Barclays Group U.S. Inc., which was subject to federal capital
requirements. It will now be subject to Securities and Exchange
Commission regulation instead.  A Barclays spokesman in London declined to comment beyond
the statement. The bank disclosed the restructuring when it
reported earnings this week.  Courts  Judge Gives U.S. 30 Days to Act on Gulf Drill Permits  U.S. offshore energy regulators have 30 days to act on five
Gulf of Mexico drilling permits that have been unreasonably
delayed by the Obama Administration’s offshore drill bans, a New
Orleans judge ruled.  “The government is under a duty to act by either granting
or denying a permit application within a reasonable time,” U.S.
District Judge Martin Feldman ruled yesterday in New Orleans.
“Not acting at all is not a lawful option.”  Feldman ordered offshore energy regulators to act within 30
days on five permit applications filed by companies that have
drilling contracts with Ensco Offshore Co., the Louisiana
drilling company leading the legal challenge to the government’s
offshore drilling bans.  He said these permits have been delayed anywhere from four
to nine months by drilling suspensions imposed by regulators in
the wake of the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history. Before
the spill, permits were typically processed within two weeks.  “We are aware of the ruling and are reviewing it,” Wyn
Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “We have no further comment at this time.”  Sean O’Neill, Ensco’s spokesman, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment.  President Barack Obama temporarily halted all drilling in
waters deeper than 500 feet in May, following the explosion and
sinking of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig off the Louisiana
coast. After offshore companies and regional business and
political leaders sued in June, Feldman threw out the ban as
overly broad and punitive to the Gulf Coast economy.  Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar promptly announced he
would find a new way to block offshore drilling and, in July,
imposed an almost identical ban. When that ban was also
challenged in court, Salazar withdrew it before Feldman could
rule on its validity.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  More Than 100 Charged in Largest U.S. Medicare Fraud Roundup  Federal agents charged more than 100 suspects in nine
cities with Medicare fraud -- the most ever in one day -- in the
latest U.S. effort to crack down on schemes to bilk the health-
care program for the elderly and disabled, according to the
Justice Department.  At least 112 suspects, including doctors, nurses and
company owners, were charged yesterday in various cases, and
searches and arrests are continuing, said Alisa Finelli, a
department spokeswoman. The cases involve more than $225 million
in alleged false billings.  “We are pleased to announce the largest federal health-
care fraud takedown in our nation’s history,” Attorney General
Eric Holder said at a news conference in Washington yesterday.  Strike forces, used by the Justice Department and Health
and Human Services Department to crack down on Medicare fraud
since 2007, have charged more than 990 people who falsely billed
Medicare for more than $2.3 billion, the Justice Department said
in a statement yesterday.  The strike forces, which operate in seven cities, are
expanding to include Dallas and Chicago, Holder said.  Suspects were charged with various health-care fraud
crimes, including conspiracy to defraud Medicare and money
laundering. Suspects allegedly participated in schemes involving
home health care, physical and occupational therapy and durable
medical equipment, according to the Justice Department.  U.S. Ends Antitrust Probe of Siemens Transmission  The U.S. Justice Department ended an antitrust probe into  Siemens AG , Europe’s biggest engineering company, concerning
flexible alternating-current transmission systems, according to
a company spokesman.  The Justice Department reviewed allegation similar to ones
that were investigated by the European Union, Alexander Becker,
a spokesman for the Munich-based company, said in an interview
yesterday. Becker didn’t specify the reason why the U.S. case
was closed. The EU’s regulators dropped their investigation in
September.  Siemens and  ABB Ltd ., the world’s biggest power-grid
supplier, were being investigated by the European Commission,
the EU’s executive, over the issue last year. The commission and
national officials conducted raids in January 2010 over
allegations some companies may have fixed prices.  Comings and Goings  SEC Names New Deputy Director in Corporation Finance  Lona Nallengara, a partner in the New York office of
Shearman & Sterling LLP, will become the new deputy director for
legal and regulatory policy in the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s Division of Corporation Finance, the SEC said
yesterday. Nallengara, 39, has worked in mergers and
acquisitions as well as capital markets since arriving at
Shearman in August 1998. Nallengara, who will relocate to
Washington, will be “starting soon” in the new job, he said by
telephone.  Warren Hires Former Pay Rent Chief for Consumer Bureau  Elizabeth Warren, the White House adviser charged with
setting up the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, hired
Corey Stone to head a unit that will write rules for credit-
information firms.  Stone, 54, is the former chief executive officer of Pay
Rent, Build Credit Inc., a company designed to allow consumers
to build credit histories by documenting rent and bill payments,
rather than by incurring debt.  “I’m excited about being here,” Stone said in a telephone
interview confirming the appointment.  The consumer-bureau unit will help write rules to regulate
credit-reporting companies such as  Equifax Inc .,  Experian Plc 
and TransUnion LLC, and debt-collection firms such as  Portfolio
Recovery Associates Inc .,  Encore Capital Group Inc .,  Asta
Funding Inc . and  Asset Acceptance Capital Corp ., according to
the agency’s draft organizational chart.  Jennifer Howard, a spokeswoman for Warren, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 