-- 
Democratic Senator Bingaman of New Mexico Will Not Seek Re-Election in '12

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-02-18T20:59:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/democratic-senator-bingaman-of-new-mexico-is-said-to-not-seek-re-election.html
Senator Jeff Bingaman of  New
Mexico , a fifth-term Democrat and chairman of the Energy and
Natural Resources Committee, said he won’t seek re-election
next year.  Bingaman, 67, becomes the fourth member of the Democratic
Senate caucus to decide not to face voters in 2012, enhancing
Republican prospects to seize control. Democrats have a 53-47
majority.  Bingaman said in a statement that serving in the Senate
has been a “great honor and a great responsibility,” yet he
and his family want to return to his home state after what they
viewed as a temporary move to Washington years ago.  “At the end of this term, we will come home to New Mexico
to live, and to pursue other challenges,” he said.  His seat will be tough for Democrats to defend, said  Jennifer Duffy , Senate editor of the nonpartisan Cook Political
Report.  “Democrats now have four open seats, and three of them
are in the tossup column,” she said. “The cards are lining up
in a way that makes it increasingly possible that Republicans
can take a majority.”  The Democrats’ Senate majority includes two independents
who vote with them. One of them,  Joe Lieberman  of  Connecticut ,
has said he won’t run in 2012.  Other Democrats who have announced retirement plans are
Jim Webb of  Virginia  and Kent Conrad of North Dakota. On the
Republican side, Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison of  Texas  and Jon Kyl of  Arizona , the second-ranking Republican leader, have said
they will leave the Senate after next year.  Energy Debates  Bingaman’s chairmanship put him at the forefront of
debates over energy legislation, including a comprehensive
measure that passed in 2007.  When energy legislation was blocked in the last session of
Congress, he tried unsuccessfully to push through a smaller
measure to require utilities to generate a minimum share of
their electricity from renewable sources like wind and solar
energy.  Bingaman favors more domestic oil drilling and some
expansion of nuclear power, putting himself at odds with many
other Democrats and with environmental groups.  A member of the Senate Finance Committee, he was one of
six senators who participated in bipartisan talks in 2009 to
craft a health-care overhaul. Three Republicans in the talks
ultimately opposed the measure, though the concepts that came
from the talks helped shape the legislation signed into law by
President  Barack Obama  last year.  Former Attorney General  A former New Mexico attorney general, Bingaman won his
last Senate election in 2006 with 71 percent of the vote. Duffy
said possible Republican contenders for the seat include former
U.S. Representative Heather Wilson, Representative Steve Pearce
and former Governor Gary Johnson. On the Democratic side,
Representatives Martin Heinrich and Ben Lujan are possible
candidates, she said.  New Mexico favored Obama in 2008, giving him 57 percent of
its vote over Republican presidential nominee  John McCain .
Still, the state often narrowly splits between the parties,
with Republican President  George W. Bush  winning the state in
2004 by about 6,500 votes. In 2000, Democratic presidential
nominee  Al Gore  carried the state by fewer than 400 votes.  In November, voters elected a Republican governor, Susana Martinez, as New Mexico’s first female chief executive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  