-- 
Diageo's Kenyan Unit Posts 8.6% Decline in Profit on Higher Ugandan Costs

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-02-18T09:08:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/diageo-s-kenyan-unit-posts-8-6-decline-in-profit-on-higher-ugandan-costs.html
  Diageo Plc ’s Kenyan unit,  East
African Breweries Ltd ., said first-half profit fell 8.6 percent
as costs at its operations in neighboring  Uganda  increased.  Net income dropped to 3.19 billion shillings ($39.2
million) in the six months through December, from 3.49 billion
shillings a year earlier, Nairobi-based EABL said in a statement
distributed by the city’s stock exchange today. Administrative
expenses jumped 28 percent to 2.7 billion shillings, it said.  “The high operations cost in our Ugandan subsidiary
affected our overall operational costs,” Managing Director Seni Adetu said in an interview.  EABL, whose products include Tusker beer, Guinness and
Johnnie Walker whisky, is Kenya’s second-biggest company by
market value and the country’s largest beer maker. The company
is expanding in the region as it seeks to increase customers
outside its home base, where it has a market share of more than
90 percent.  In December,  Kenya ’s state-run Commission for Monopolies
and Prices declared EABL a monopoly and said it would monitor
the company to prevent abuse of its position.  Last year, the company completed the acquisition of 51
percent of Serengeti Breweries Ltd. in Tanzania for $60.4
million. In Uganda, the company installed a new bottling plant
at its Uganda Breweries Ltd. unit and spent more on marketing
and distribution, Adetu said.  ‘Improved Sales’  “With the commissioning of a new 50,000 bottle-per-hour
capacity packaging line in November we expect sales to improve
considerably,” he said.  Shares in EABL were unchanged today on the  Nairobi Stock
Exchange . The stock has risen 24 percent over the past 12
months, outperforming a 21 percent increase in the benchmark
NSE-20 index over the same period.  Adetu said he was optimistic about earnings growth in the
second half.  “The outlook for the second half is maintaining the
momentum” and returning to “double-digit” growth, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 