-- 
Djibouti Opposition Meets After Violence at Protests; One Policeman Killed

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-02-19T11:19:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/djibouti-protests-may-continue-after-march-ends-in-violence.html
  Djibouti  opposition groups were
scheduled to meet today to decide what steps to take next after
police allegedly fired on demonstrators yesterday, injuring at
least two of them, an opposition leader said.  “The situation is very bad,” Ismail Guedi Hared, president
of the Union for a Democratic Alternative, said by phone late
yesterday. The police “used tear gas and they shot in every
direction. I know two people are in hospital.”  One policeman was killed and a second one is in a coma
after being stoned by protesters, according to  Djibouti24 , a
Djibouti-based website.  Anti-government protests across North Africa since January
ousted the presidents of Egypt and Tunisia, while similar
demonstrations have occurred in Algeria and  Libya . In Djibouti,
the Horn of  Africa  nation that hosts the only U.S. military base
on the continent, President Ismail Guelleh’s People’s Rally for
Progress party has ruled since independence in 1977. The 63-
year-old leader, who was first elected in 1999, amended the
constitution in March to allow him to extend his rule by two
more six-year terms.  Yesterday’s protest turned violent near the Hassan Guled
stadium in the capital, Djibouti, Hared said. Live ammunition
was used by both sides and a crowd of about 100 demonstrators
threw stones at the police after leaders of the protest were
escorted away, Djibouti24 said.  Confrontation  “The police are confronting demonstrators,” Mohamed Daoud
Chehem, head of the Djibouti Party for Development, said by
phone from the protest yesterday. “They have opened fire,” he
said, without being able to specify if anyone was injured or
what type of ammunition was used.  Several calls today and yesterday to Ali Boumede, a
spokesman for the president, Foreign Minister Mahmoud Ali
Youssuf, the president’s office and president’s residence were
either not answered, didn’t connect or Bloomberg was told the
officials weren’t available.  Chehem said that as many as 20,000 people had joined the
protest against Guelleh. The country has a population of about
860,000. Exiled Djiboutian opposition leader Abdourahman Boreh,
who is currently in  London , said the demonstrations may
continue.  “We will see how it goes,” Boreh said yesterday. “We will
see how the government reacts.”  Last month, Boreh called for elections scheduled for April
to be delayed by as much as a year and for international
monitors to oversee an electoral roll that includes 130,000 to
140,000 of the population of about 865,000.    Life Expectancy   Djibouti ranks 148th out of 169 countries in the United
Nations Development Program’s  Human Development Index , which
measures life expectancy, education and  living standards .  “We’re closely monitoring, keeping an eye on developments,
especially as they relate to any forces we may have in the
region,” Pentagon spokesman, Marine Corps Colonel David Lapin,
told reporters yesterday.  The U.S has had a  base  in Djibouti since 2001, while former
colonial power  France  also has a military based and 3,000 troops
stationed in the country, which is smaller than the U.S. state
of  Massachusetts . The republic borders the  Red Sea  and the Gulf
of Aden and is seen as a strategic location in the U.S.-led
fight against terrorism and piracy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 