-- 
Djibouti Police Fire Upon Protesters in Capital, Opposition Official Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-02-18T16:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/djibouti-opposition-official-says-20-000-people-begin-protest-in-capital.html
Police have opened fire on
demonstrators in  Djibouti , the Horn of  Africa  nation that hosts
the only U.S. military base on the continent, according to the
leader of an opposition party.  “The police are confronting demonstrators,” Mohamed Daoud
Chehem, head of the Djibouti Party for Development, said by
phone from the protest in the capital, Djibouti. “They have
opened fire,” he said, without being able to specify if anyone
was injured or what type of ammunition was used.  Chehem earlier said that as many as 20,000 people had
joined the protest against President Ismail Guelleh, and that he
expected numbers to swell to 50,000.  Anti-government protests across North Africa since January
ousted the presidents of Egypt and  Tunisia , while similar
demonstrations have occurred in Algeria and Libya. In Djibouti,
Guelleh’s People’s Rally for Progress party has ruled the
country since independence in 1977. The 63-year-old leader, who
was elected in 1999, amended the constitution in March to allow
him to extend his rule by two more six-year terms.  Exiled Djiboutian opposition leader Abdourahman Boreh, who
is currently in  London , put the number of protesters today at as
many as 5,000. The demonstration may extend beyond today, he
said in a phone interview.  “We will see how it goes,” Boreh said. “This is the
first day. We will see how the government reacts.”  U.S. Base  The U.S has had a  base  in Djibouti since 2001, while former
colonial power  France  also has 3,000 troops stationed in the
country, which is smaller than the U.S. state of Massachusetts.
The republic borders the  Red Sea  and the Gulf of Aden and is
seen as a strategic location in the U.S.-led fight against
terrorism and piracy.  Last month, Boreh called for elections scheduled for April
to be delayed by as much as a year and for international
monitors to oversee an electoral roll that includes 130,000 to
140,000 of the population of about 865,000.  Djibouti ranks 148th out of 169 countries ranked in the
United Nations Development Program’s  Human Development Index ,
which measures life expectancy, education and living standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 