-- 
Gasoline Gains as Brent Rebounds on Middle East Tensions

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-02-18T21:40:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/heating-oil-declines-as-warming-weather-may-reduce-demand.html
Gasoline advanced in  New York  as
Brent crude in  London  rebounded from an early decline on
heightened concern that political instability in the Middle East
may disrupt fuel production and shipments in the region.  Gasoline rose and Brent rebounded from its lows as
Bahrain’s security forces attacked protesters for a second day
and Egypt approved a request from  Iran  to allow two Iranian
naval ships to pass through the Suez Canal on their way to  Syria . Refineries supplying fuel to New York Harbor, the
delivery point for heating oil and gasoline futures, use crude-
oil grades priced relative to Brent.  “Brent rallied on these geopolitical headlines, and
products basically followed what Brent did,” said Tom Knight,
vice president of trading and supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in
Texarkana, Texas.  Gasoline for March delivery added 2.36 cents, or 0.9
percent, to settle at $2.5513 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices gained 3.5 percent this week.  April-delivery Brent on London’s ICE Futures exchange lost
7 cents to settle at $102.52 a barrel, after earlier losing
$1.86. Prices rose after the settlement, gaining 44 cents to
$103.03 as of 3:54 p.m. in New York.  "There’s more violent protests in the Middle East," said
Gordon Elliott, a risk management specialist at FC Stone LLC in
St. Louis Park,  Minnesota . "You’ve got a three-day weekend
coming up and who wants to sell it with all this violence going
on.’’  U.S. financial markets will be closed Feb. 21 for the
Presidents Day holiday.  WTI-Brent Spread Slips  The WTI-Brent spread, based on April futures traded on
Nymex and ICE Futures Europe, dropped 94 cents to $12.81 a
barrel. Product futures had followed Brent to 28-month highs as
the spread reached a record $15.94 two days ago on record-high
inventories of oil at Cushing, Oklahoma, the Nymex contract’s
delivery point.  The March contract for West  Texas  Intermediate crude lost
16 cents to settle at $86.20.  “While Brent is more sensitive to developments in the
Middle East, it hasn’t moved much today with more profit-taking
by those who shorted the WTI/Brent spreads over the last couple
of weeks,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , London-based head of
commodity markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA.  Heating Oil  Gasoline outperformed heating oil, narrowing their
differential by 4.31 cents to 16.16 cents, the smallest since
Jan. 14, on speculation that refinery shutdowns of gasoline-
making units will reduce supplies. ConocoPhillips began shutting
a fluid catalytic cracker for maintenance at its Sweeny, Texas,
plant yesterday, according to a state filing.  “Normally at this time of the year, you see people
starting to change their positions, buying gasoline and selling
heating oil,” said  Peter Beutel , president of trading advisory
company Cameron Hanover Inc. in New Canaan, Connecticut.  Heating oil for March delivery dropped 1.95 cents, or 0.7
percent, to settle at $2.7129 a gallon. Prices rose 0.6 percent
this week.  Heating oil declined as the National Weather Service’s
 Climate Prediction Center  projected normal temperatures for the
Northeast Feb. 23 through Feb. 27. The region is the largest
user of heating oil.  “Mild weather has been moving into the Northeast and
that’s definitely impacted heating oil demand,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 1.1 cents to $3.156 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on
its  website .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 