-- 
Egyptians Return to Cairo’s Tahrir Square to Underline Protests

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-02-18T12:27:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/egyptians-return-to-cairo-s-tahrir-square-to-underline-protests.html
Tens of thousands of Egyptians
gathered in central Cairo today to reassert demands for change,
one week after street protests led to the overthrow of President  Hosni Mubarak , fueling similar demonstrations throughout the
Middle East.  Salesmen offered souvenir t-shirts commemorating the
protests that started on Jan. 25 to the crowds who packed into
Tahrir square. Some carried photographs of people killed during
the unrest and others followed regular Friday religious
ceremonies with prayers for the dead.  The Health Ministry said yesterday that 365 people were
killed during the demonstrations. The Egyptian army on Feb. 13
dissolved parliament and suspended the constitution, meeting
demands made by the opposition movement that forced Mubarak from
office two days earlier, and said it will rule  Egypt  until
elections are held.  “I’m sure our demands will be met, but it’s better that we
all come together again to show them that we’re serious,” said
Mahmoud el Hady, a 23-year-old commerce student at Benha
University, north of Cairo, who was wrapped in a red, white and
black Egyptian flag. “Some people need to go from the old
regime. We need to dismantle the national security forces.”  Demonstrations continued today in  Bahrain , where people
called for democracy and the fall of the government during a
funeral procession for two men killed by security forces.  The dissent in Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth
Fleet, follows the toppling of autocratic rulers by popular
movements in Egypt and  Tunisia  and marks the spread of dissent
into the  Persian Gulf , where most of the Middle East’s oil is
produced.    Libya , Yemen  The past week has also seen anti-government protests and
clashes in Libya,  Africa ’s biggest holder of crude oil reserves,
and Yemen, a producer of liquefied natural gas. Brent crude
futures this week rose to the highest level since 2008.  The Egyptian Exchange has been closed since Jan. 27 after
the biggest stock selloff in more than two years.  “We want the army to rule temporarily and then never to
rule us again,” said Ali Bassam, 45, a physical education
teacher. “We want anyone chosen by Hosni Mubarak to leave his
position. This country has been a big prison for 30 years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 