-- 
Televisa Shares Gain Most in Two Months After Net Income More Than Doubles

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-02-18T21:24:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/televisa-profit-more-than-doubles-to-218-million-as-satellite-users-jump.html
  Grupo Televisa SA  gained the most in
two months in Mexico City trading after its fourth-quarter
profit more than doubled on gains in satellite- and cable-TV
clients.  Televisa climbed 1.38 pesos, or 2.4 percent, to 59.49 pesos
at 4 p.m.  New York  time, the biggest gain since Dec. 1. The
shares have declined 6.9 percent this year.  Televisa’s Sky unit is using a brand called  VeTV  to offer
lower-cost satellite packages with fewer channels to reach more
Mexican consumers, competing with Dish Mexico. Televisa added
291,000 satellite customers in the quarter to bring its total to
3.04 million.  Net income increased to 2.62 billion pesos ($218 million)
from 1.19 billion pesos a year earlier,  Mexico  City-based
Televisa said yesterday. Sales rose 8.8 percent to 16.5 billion
pesos, topping the 16.3 billion peso estimate of Michel Morin,
analyst at Barclays Plc in New York.  The three cable carriers controlled by Televisa added a
total of 42,912 TV customers in the fourth quarter.  Ad-Customer Loss  Televisa failed to sell upfront advertising this year to
companies controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim  after raising
prices, Executive Vice President Alfonso de Angoitia said.
Televisa’s advance bookings of ad sales for the year fell 4
percent from a year earlier because of Slim’s absence, he said.
Slim’s companies represented 1.5 percent of Televisa’s sales in
2010, de Angoitia said.  While Slim’s Telefonos de Mexico SAB competes with Televisa
for phone and Internet customers, the decision was based solely
on the price increase, said  Arturo Elias , Slim’s spokesman.  “There are many other advertising media,” Elias said in
an e-mail today. Televisa has about 70 percent of Mexico’s
broadcast television market.  Televisa is still evaluating ways to enter Mexico’s mobile-
phone market, where Slim’s America Movil SAB is the top carrier,
de Angoitia said. Mexico’s government has barred Slim from
entering the pay-TV market, saying he must comply with
regulations on interconnecting with competitors first. Slim said
last month he has complied with the necessary rules.  Televisa plans capital investments of $850 million this
year, mostly for its cable and satellite units, de Angoitia
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  