-- 
Endesa, Gas Natural, Iberdrola Lose Halt to Coal Plan

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-02-18T16:27:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/endesa-gas-natural-iberdrola-lose-temporary-halt-to-coal-plan.html
  Endesa SA , Spain’s second-largest
utility,  Iberdrola SA  and  Gas Natural SDG SA  lost a court bid to
block European Union approval of  Spain ’s plan to subsidize
domestic coal bought by utilities for electricity generation.  The president of the Luxembourg-based  EU General Court , the
region’s second-highest tribunal, yesterday canceled the
provisional suspension the three companies had won in November,
according to an e-mailed statement from the court.  “The interests of putting in place, as quickly as
possible, a Spanish service of general economic interest and its
associated compensation” as approved by the EU regulator,
“must take precedence over the opposing interests put forward
by the three energy companies,” the court said last night.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive
agency, in September backed the Spanish program which will end
in 2014. Demand from power companies for Spanish coal has
slumped amid a recession and a shift to other fuels. The EU
court said the companies failed to prove “the existence of
sufficiently urgent circumstances” to maintain the suspension.  The Spanish plan seeks to support domestic coal and coal
mines, which would otherwise be in danger of closure, the court
said in the statement. The plan obliged 10 power stations to buy
domestic coal, which costs more than other fuels.  The companies sought to suspend the Spanish plan as long as
their  main appeal  is pending at the EU court. They argued the
plan will harm them financially through the higher prices for
domestic coal and through fines they may have to pay for
breaching existing gas and coal contracts.  An Iberdrola spokesman declined to comment. No one was
available to comment at the press offices of Endesa and Gas
Natural.  The cases are T-484/10 R, T-486/10 R, T-490/10 R and T-
520/10 R, Gas Natural Fenosa SDG, Iberdrola, Endesa & Endesa
Generacion and Comunidad Autonoma de Galicia v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  