-- 
Lennar Bets on Ex-Officer Housing ‘Party’ as California Rebounds

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   D a n   L e v y
-- 
2011-02-18T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/lennar-bets-on-former-executive-s-housing-party-as-california-rebounds.html
Emile Haddad, a former  Lennar Corp .
executive, sold 12,000 acres in California for a $277 million
profit at the housing market’s peak four years ago. He and his
partners then reacquired it at half the price in 2009. Now,
Haddad says, it’s time to build.  Haddad, chief executive officer of FivePoint Communities
Inc., is developing four new master-planned communities with a
combined 45,000 residences, two in the Los Angeles area and two
in San Francisco. Construction of the first homes is scheduled
to begin in the second half of this year. Investors including
Lennar, Michael S. Dell’s MSD Capital LP, Ross Perot Jr.’s
Hillwood Development Co. and Rockpoint Group LLC are banking on
the projects as the state emerges from a five-year housing bust.  “I don’t want the party to show up and I’m not dressed,”
Haddad, 52, said in an interview at the Aliso Viejo, California,
office he leases in Lennar’s West Coast headquarters. “When the
market says ‘I’m here,’ we’ll be one of the few that can deliver
inventory.”    Los Angeles  and San Francisco were two of only four major
U.S. housing markets with year-over-year price gains in
November, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index. Values have
risen 23 percent statewide from the trough in February 2009,
with affordability at the highest level in a decade for first-
time buyers, data from the  California Association of Realtors 
show.  Nationwide, the rising stock market and improved consumer
sentiment may spur buyers who delayed purchases during the 18-
month recession, said  Karl Case , emeritus economics professor at
Wellesley College in  Massachusetts .  ‘Reasonable Housing Market’  “With higher incomes and wealth and expectations, it seems
to me that demand ought to do something,” Case, co-creator of
the  price index , said in a telephone interview. “There might be
a reasonable housing market this spring.”  Lennar is counting on it. Regulatory filings show that the
Miami-based homebuilder, the third-largest in the U.S. by
revenue, has about a quarter of its $626 million of joint
venture investments in Haddad’s master-planned sites at Newhall
Ranch north of Los Angeles, the former El Toro Marine Corps Air
Station in Orange County and Hunters Point and Treasure Island,
both former U.S. Navy bases in San Francisco.  “Over the past five years we’ve taken a lot of pain on
some of these ventures,” Lennar Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said during a Jan. 11 conference call, after reporting
the company’s first annual profit since 2006. “As we come out
of 2010, we are getting better positioned to reap some benefits
from some of those deals.”  Environmental, Legal Hurdles  FivePoint faces environmental, legal and financial hurdles
that could delay delivery of homes in each of its four
locations, according to John Burns, chairman of John Burns Real
Estate Consulting in Irvine,  California .  “These projects are the most difficult in the state of
California,” said Burns, who has advised some of Haddad’s
partners. “Every one of those big investors is unhappy with
their investment, but continue to back Emile because they feel
his team gives them the greatest chance for success.”  Hunters Point sales are set to begin by late 2012 with
prices starting at $525,000, as the  Navy continues its cleanup 
of the 700-acre (283-hectare) site. The plan calls for as many
as 12,000 homes, 3 million square feet (279,000 square meters)
of commercial space and a new stadium for the  National Football
League ’s 49ers.  Treasure Island Homes  More than 7,000 homes can eventually be built on Treasure
Island and adjoining Yerba Buena Island, under terms of a final
development agreement that may go before the  San Francisco  Board
of Supervisors for approval in May, said Michael Tymoff, the
city’s deputy director for redevelopment on Treasure Island.  With views of San Francisco’s skyline and the bay and
planned ferry service to the city, units will average $800,000
and may reach $2 million, said Kofi Bonner, a Lennar regional
vice president.  FivePoint expects to sell an average of 650 homes a year
from the two projects, Haddad said. That’s a lot to expect for
San Francisco, which absorbs about 1,000 new homes a year, said
Tony Avila, CEO of San Francisco-based Avila Advisors, a
homebuilding investment consulting company.  “Hunters Point and Treasure Island will cannibalize each
other,” he said.  Todd Platt, CEO of Dallas-based Hillwood Investments, a
unit of Perot’s company that’s investing in Hunters Point,
declined to comment.  El Toro Restructuring  At El Toro, Haddad completed a financial restructuring in
December in which  State Street Corp . wrote down $425 million of
a $625 million loan. State Street also extended a line of credit
while the project’s investors each put in additional,
undisclosed equity.  The first of 5,000 home sites may begin selling to builders
by the end of next year, Haddad said, with the smallest homes
starting at about $400,000.  “We expect to be with this project for a number of years
to come,” said Patrick Fox, managing member of Boston-based
Rockpoint, which has invested $8 billion in properties since
1995. “Emile is one of the premier residential land developers
in the  United States .”  Fox wouldn’t disclose the size of Rockpoint’s El Toro
investment. Other investors in the project -- Lennar,  New York- 
based MSD Capital and LNR Property Corp., a Miami Beach-based
real estate investment and management company -- declined to
comment.  Born in  Beirut   Haddad was born in 1958 in Lebanon, where he studied civil
engineering at the American University of Beirut and ran a
construction company. In 1986, Haddad, his parents and his
fiancee fled Lebanon after 11 years of civil war in the country.  In California, he worked a series of real estate jobs,
rising to senior vice president at Bramalea Ltd., a Canadian
developer that filed for bankruptcy in 1995. When Lennar
acquired Bramalea’s Southern California assets, Haddad went
along, rising first to western regional president in 1998 and,
in 2006, to chief investment officer.  As CIO, Haddad oversaw deals that netted Lennar about $1
billion, he said in a Jan. 26 interview at a hotel near Lennar’s
San Francisco offices. He ushered real estate proposals through
regulatory approvals and public hearings and found investors to
get projects “out of the quicksand.”  “We create value, bring somebody in, take chips off the
table,” he said.  Buyer for Newhall  In January 2007, with the U.S. housing bubble near its
peak, Haddad found a buyer for Newhall. The largest U.S. pension
fund, the California Public Employees’ Retirement System, was
expanding its real estate portfolio and paid $970 million for 68
percent of the 12,000-acre site and other development sites.
Lennar, which had acquired the property three years earlier,
booked a $277 million profit on the deal.  In June 2008, with California home prices down 59 percent,
the Newhall development entity filed for  bankruptcy protection 
and Calpers wrote off the investment as a total loss. Thirteen
months later, under a court-approved reorganization, Haddad and
Lennar paid $140 million to regain a 15 percent equity in the
site, management control and immunity from creditor lawsuits.  “That was extraordinary,” said  Vicki Bryan , senior bond
analyst for Gimme Credit LLC, a New York-based corporate bond
research firm. “I’d say Lennar is crazy like a fox. It’s not an
accident that they were well-covered in that deal.”  Acquiring Newhall a second time was the catalyst for Lennar
to create FivePoint as a standalone entity to manage long-term,
large, master-planned communities, said Jonathan Jaffe, Lennar’s
chief operating officer.  ‘Enhance  Shareholder Value ’  “By restructuring assets and separating the management
team from Lennar, we have created an opportunity to
significantly enhance shareholder value,” Jaffe said in a
statement in response to questions from Bloomberg News.  Haddad said he was prepared for tough times in real estate
by the many nights he spent sheltered in his Beirut building’s
stairwell during wartime.  “When the bombs start falling, there are two questions you
want to ask,” he recalled telling the staff at Newhall Ranch
after the company filed for bankruptcy. “When is it going to be
over, and will I survive? I cannot answer those questions. But I
can tell you I will be in it with you till the last minute and
I’ll work day and night to make sure we come out of it alive --
as many of us as possible.”  Master-Planned Communities  FivePoint is planning about 21,000 new homes in  Newhall ,
doubling the size of Valencia, an adjoining master-planned
community begun in 1965. The built-up value of Valencia is now
about $14 billion, according to data from Los Angeles County’s
assessor.  FivePoint, should it meet performance goals, will receive
as much as 12.5 percent of the equity in Newhall, Haddad said.
That equity will be split between his company and Lennar, which
owns 60 percent of FivePoint to Haddad’s 40 percent share.  “The more they get paid, the more I get paid,” he said.  Haddad’s investments for Lennar don’t all make money. A
commercial and residential development in Anaheim, California,
by Platinum Triangle Partners, a joint venture in which the
homebuilder invested $107.5 million, stalled after the local
real estate market slumped in 2007, Haddad said.  FivePoint’s prospects may be tempered by California’s 12.5
percent unemployment rate, the highest after Nevada’s, and
lingering effects of the housing bust. The state ranked third,
behind  Nevada  and  Arizona , in foreclosure filings per household
in January, data seller RealtyTrac Inc. reported Feb. 10.  Governor Brown’s Plan  Haddad’s plans also are threatened by California Governor
Jerry Brown’s proposal to eliminate local redevelopment
agencies, which have used $5 billion in annual  tax revenue  to
finance real estate projects, affordable housing, roads and
parks. Brown wants the state to use the money to fill its $25
billion  budget deficit .  The Brown plan as currently proposed would be fatal to
Treasure Island and other real estate proposals around the
state, which rely on a tax-increment financing tool that is
crucial for redevelopment, Tymoff said.  “This is fundamental to realizing the project and the
enormous public benefits that go along with it,” he said.  Delays and obstacles come with the territory, Haddad said.  “In this business, we don’t plan for the next two years,”
he said. “We plan for two decades.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  