-- 
IBM to Sell Remaining Lenovo Stake, Term Sheet Shows

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-02-18T11:56:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/lenovo-shareholder-seeks-263-million-from-stock-sale-terms-say.html
  International Business Machines
Corp . is seeking about HK$2.05 billion ($263 million) for its
remaining holding in  Lenovo Group Ltd ., about six years after
gaining a stake in China’s biggest personal-computer maker.  The world’s largest computer-services company is offering
435.7 million Lenovo shares at HK$4.68 to HK$4.71 each, terms
for the sale show. The proposed sale price for IBM’s 4.3 percent
stake is between 3.5 percent and 4.1 percent less than the
stock’s last traded price. Citigroup Inc. is managing the deal.  IBM began selling down its stake in Lenovo in May 2005, the
same month it acquired the holding by selling its PC division to
the Chinese company in a $1.25 billion deal paid for in cash and
stock. The Armonk, New York-based company had been shedding
unprofitable manufacturing businesses to focus on its main
software and computer services operations.  Florence Ma, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for IBM, said
she couldn’t immediately confirm the proposed stock sale. Angela Lee, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at Lenovo, didn’t immediately
return calls to her office and mobile phones seeking comment.  IBM held a stake of as much as 18.9 percent in Lenovo in
May 2005, the Chinese company said at the time.  After the 2005 acquisition of IBM’s PC unit, Lenovo cut
jobs and moved more production to  China . The Chinese company
also expanded in emerging markets such as India and Russia to
boost sales and catch up with bigger rivals including Hewlett-
Packard Co. and  Dell Inc .  Lenovo Profit  Lenovo yesterday reported its fiscal third-quarter profit
rose 25 percent to $99.7 million, beating analysts’ estimates,
as customers replaced aging machines and component costs fell.  The world’s fourth-biggest PC maker by shipments, Lenovo
accounted for 10.4 percent of global PC shipments last quarter,
compared with 8.8 percent a year earlier, according to research
company IDC. Industry leader Hewlett-Packard had 19.5 percent
market share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net 
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  