-- 
Environment Ministry to Review Rosneft, BP Arctic Licenses

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-02-18T11:35:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/environment-ministry-to-review-rosneft-bp-arctic-licenses.html
  Russia  will review licenses for
three blocks in the Arctic which OAO Rosneft and  BP Plc . plan to
develop, as the region may overlap a proposed national park.  Exploration and production will be banned within the
reserve’s boundaries, which the government has yet to approve,
the Natural Resources Ministry  said  today in a statement on its
website.  State-run Rosneft in October received the rights to drill
in the three blocks, known as East Prinovozemelsk-1, 2, and 3,
in the Kara Sea off Russia’s north coast. Last month, the
Russian oil producer agreed to team up with BP, which has
offshore technology and experience, to work on the deposits as
part of a broader alliance between the two.  The Russian government in June ordered a national park to
be created in the Arctic. Although the park boundaries may
partially overlap with the three blocks, they haven’t been
defined yet and there were no legal limitations at the time the
licenses were issued to Rosneft, it said.  “Immediately after the Russian Arctic national park’s
boundaries have been defined, the Natural Resources Ministry and
the Subsoil Use Agency will clarify the license requirements,”
the ministry said. “No works related to the use of resources
will be allowed within the boundaries of conservation areas and
protected zones.”  At present, there is no response system in place for an
Arctic offshore oil spill under ice cover, Grigory Bondarenko,
an offshore project manager for Rosneft, said in Moscow
yesterday.  The blocks, in an area similar in size to the U.K. part of
the  North Sea , may hold the equivalent of 100 billion barrels of
oil and gas resources. Rosneft and state-controlled OAO Gazprom
have exclusive rights to Russia’s Arctic offshore reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  