-- 
Merck Vioxx Accord Spawns Pay-Day Scrap Among Lawyers

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-02-18T21:08:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/merck-vioxx-accord-spawns-pay-day-scrap-among-lawyers.html
Plaintiff lawyers involved in Merck
& Co.’s $4.85 billion Vioxx settlement are accusing some of
their colleagues of attempting to hog the lion’s share of more
than $315 million in fees spawned by the accord.  Attorneys who lead a court-appointed committee that
allocates fees are arbitrarily deciding fee awards, with a small
number of firms getting a rate of $2,205 an hour for their work
while others are assigned a $21 hourly rate for handling
depositions of witnesses and poring through records, objecting
lawyers contend in court filings in  New Orleans .  Objectors like Turner Branch contend the committee’s
division of the Vioxx fees “is unjustified, inexcusable, and
lacking any rational basis,” according to a Feb. 9 court
filing. Branch, a New Mexico-based plaintiff attorney, is
seeking $3.9 million in fees. The committee initially awarded
him about $281,000, yet listed zero in its recommendation to the
judge, according to court filings. Branch didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment.  Merck won 11 of 16 Vioxx lawsuits that went to trial before
agreeing in November 2007 to settle almost 50,000 claims of
users who blamed the drug for heart attacks and strokes. Lawyers
who worked on a consolidation of Vioxx cases before U.S.
District Judge  Eldon Fallon  in New Orleans are slated to split
$315.3 million in fees for their work on the cases.  Special Master  Fallon, who is overseeing all Vioxx cases filed in federal
courts around the U.S., yesterday appointed a special master to
oversee the fee split submitted last month by the so-called
Vioxx Fee Allocation Committee, said Houston-based plaintiff
attorney  Mark Lanier . The committee, appointed by Fallon,
includes lawyers representing nine of the 109 firms in the
settlement pool.  More than 15 firms objected to the recommendations of the
committee, which includes prominent plaintiff lawyers, such as
Lanier, who won a $253 million verdict against Merck in the
first trial over Vioxx, and Montgomery, Alabama-based Andy Birchfield, who helped negotiate the 2007 settlement.  “Out of the 100-plus law firms that are receiving a fee
out of the settlement, very few are satisfied with how much they
are getting overall,” Lanier said today in a phone interview.
“But the committee worked very hard to come up with something
equitable. I believe the majority of law firms involved have
found the division to be something they can live with.”  $40.9 Million Each  Chris Seeger, of Seeger Weiss LP in  New York , and
Birchfield, from the law firm of Beasley Allen, are slated to
get the largest share of fees at $40.9 million for each firm.
They are followed by Herman Herman Katz & Cotlar LLP in New
Orleans with $32.5 million.  Lanier’s $27 million and Philadelphia-based Levin Fishbein
Sedran & Berman’s $21.4 million in fees round out the top five
awards, according to the FAC’s recommendation, filed with the
court on Jan. 19.  Seeger and Birchfield serve as co-lead counsel for the fee
committee. Like Lanier, Russ Herman of Herman Herman Katz is
also a member of the committee. Seeger, Birchfield and Herman
didn’t return phone calls seeking comment.  Fallon ruled in October that common-benefit fees would
total 6.5 percent of the $4.85 billion settlement, less than the
8 percent initially sought by lawyers.  562,944 Hours  The lawyers doing the common-benefit work billed for
562,944 hours at 109 law firms, Fallon said last year. They took
more than 2,000 depositions, reviewed more than 50 million
documents, briefed and argued more than 1,000 motions, conducted
trials nationwide and negotiated a settlement, Fallon said.  Fallon appointed Patrick Juneau of Lafayette, Louisiana, as
the special master to review the FAC’s recommendations, Lanier
said.  “While the FAC makes very abstract statements about its
process, it provides virtually no information that concretely
describes its allocation methodology,” Kathy Snapka of Snapka,
Turman & Waterhouse LLP in  Corpus Christi ,  Texas , said in court
papers filed Feb. 4 objecting to her allocation of $75,000.  Snapka, who won a $32 million jury verdict that was later
cut to $8.73 million, is seeking $12 million for her work,
according to court papers. Snapka didn’t return phone calls
seeking comment.  The FAC’s analysis is “arbitrary,” Benedict Morelli with
New York-based Morelli Ratner said in a Feb. 2 court filing. He
said the committee’s allocations were “particularly
disturbing” since it awarded about $230 million, or 74 percent
of the total fund, to nine law firms that have representatives
on the fee-allocation group.  In its recommendation to the court, the fee committee said
it considered the type of work done by each firm and the
“value” the work contributed to the litigation, developing a
point system to evaluate the lawyers. The number of hours
submitted wasn’t a dominant factor in deciding awards, the
committee said.  $750,000 in Fees  The FAC recommended $750,000 in fees for Morelli Ratner,
according to court filings. The firm is seeking $12 million.
Morelli didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  Among other firms awarded fees are Los Angeles-based
Girardi & Keese with $20.1 million, Weitz & Luxenberg PC in New
York with $20 million and $15.6 million for Levin Papantonio
Thomas Mitchell Eschner & Procter PA in Pensacola,  Florida .  Robert Arceneaux, a plaintiff attorney in Metairie,
Louisiana, who was appointed as co-lead counsel for fee
objectors, is calling for an investigation into possible “side
deals” involving Birchfield, Seeger, Herman and Michael
Stratton, an attorney with Stratton Faxon in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , according to a Feb. 4 filing.  8 Percent of Settlement  Stratton served as liaison for a group of objectors
initially opposed to a steering committee’s plans to request
that 8 percent of the Vioxx settlement be designated for legal
fees, according to papers filed by Arceneaux on behalf of
plaintiff lawyers Eric Weinberg in  New Jersey  and Chris
Placitella of Cohen Placitella & Roth in Philadelphia.  In a July 27 meeting, Herman, Birchfield, Stratton and
Seeger agree to recommend that fees total 7.5 percent in
exchange for an $18.5 million payment to the list of objectors,
according to a transcript of the meeting filed with Arceneaux’s
court papers. Stratton mentions nothing about the payment to
Fallon in a letter citing the agreement the next day, according
to a copy of the letter filed by Arceneaux.  Stratton didn’t return a phone call left at his office.  In her filing, Snapka acknowledges that she received two
checks from Stratton and was never given a “clear understanding
of the source of the funds or the ability of anyone to
distribute funds without court order,” according to court
papers.  The case is Vioxx Products Liability Litigation, MDL-1657,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in U.S. District Court in Philadelphia at
   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 