-- 
Merkel’s Defense Minister Drops Doctor Title in Plagiarism Spat

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-02-18T12:27:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/merkel-s-defense-minister-drops-doctor-title-in-plagiarism-spat.html
German Defense Minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg apologized for possible irregularities in his
doctoral thesis and said he won’t use his academic title pending
the outcome of an inquiry by his professors.  Guttenberg’s response to allegations in German media that
he copied other people’s work for his  University of Bayreuth 
thesis came amid opposition calls for his resignation and a
media storm over the fate of  Germany ’s most popular politician.
“The minister’s fighting on all fronts,” said a headline today
in the best-selling Bild newspaper.  “The doctoral thesis that I wrote is not a work of
plagiarism,” Guttenberg, 39, told reporters in Berlin in
remarks broadcast on N24 television. “It undoubtedly contains
errors. But at no point was there conscious deception, nor were
original sources consciously obscured.”  The Guttenberg case is dominating media coverage in Germany
two days before elections in the city-state of Hamburg that
polls suggest Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party will lose.
Guttenberg, whose approval rating has been higher than Merkel’s
for more than a year, won the chancellor’s backing to fight the
allegations at a meeting in Berlin last night, Deutsche Presse-
Agentur reported, citing government sources it didn’t name.  Guttenberg told a group of invited reporters that he
regrets any offense caused by “incorrect citations” or
“omitted footnotes” and pledged to cooperate with the
university’s inquiry. “Pending the result of this review, I
will be happy to temporarily stop using my title.”  The university has asked Guttenberg to respond to the
allegations about his 475-page thesis that were first published
in the  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  newspaper on Feb. 16. The minister,
in a statement the same day, dismissed the report as “absurd.”  Sixty-eight percent of voters have a positive view of
Guttenberg, who hails from an aristocratic family in Bavaria, a
Feb. 2  Stern magazine  survey showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  