-- 
Merscorp Replaces Corporate Secretary a Month After CEO Departs

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-02-18T20:12:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/merscorp-replaces-corporate-secretary-hultman-a-month-after-ceo-departs.html
Merscorp Inc., operator of the
electronic mortgage-registration system under criticism by
consumer advocates amid a probe into lender foreclosure errors,
replaced Bill Hultman as its corporate secretary.  General Counsel Sharon Horstkamp is taking over the job,
Karmela Lejarde, a spokeswoman for the Reston, Virginia-based
company, said in an e-mail today. Hultman remains a senior vice
president and corporate division manager, she said.  Merscorp has made a series of changes as courts debate what
role it has, if any, in home foreclosures. Chief Executive
Officer and President R.K. Arnold, who hired Hultman in 1998,
retired last month. The company also is examining reforms,
including a proposed rule change on the company’s  website  Feb.
16 that would stop members from foreclosing in its name.  “They’re trying to clean up their house,” said
Christopher L. Peterson, a law professor at the University of
Utah in  Salt Lake City  who has written law-review articles
critical of the company. “I’m not sure Hultman was the problem.
It seems to me the problem is the business model.”  Lejarde declined to comment on the reason for the change in
Hultman’s role. A telephone message left for Hultman wasn’t
immediately returned.  Merscorp’s Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc.
contains more than half of all U.S. home mortgages. Members,
which include the nation’s largest banks, log changes on the
private database rather than filing mortgage assignments with
county records offices each time loans change hands.  MERS Criticism  Consumer advocates have said that MERS masks the real owner
of a loan and is subject to lapses and mistakes. The company’s
role in the mortgage system has been highlighted after attorneys
generals in all 50 states began investigating claims that banks
and loan servicers used faulty documentation in foreclosures.  “With the MERS System, mortgage data is more accurate and
title information more reliable,” the company said in an e-mail
last month. “The MERS process creates accountability and
transparency, helps keep costs low, reduces the risk of errors
in recordkeeping and makes it easier to keep track of the lien
if a loan is sold to other banks and investors.”  The company, which has been criticized for giving
certifying authority to employees with little knowledge of MERS
or the documents they’re signing, said this week that the
company has created an “enhanced” process for testing and
appointing certifying officers.  Hultman, as corporate secretary, deputized thousands of
employees of member banks to sign documents on behalf of
Merscorp as “vice presidents” or “assistant secretaries,” he
said a November 2009 deposition in an Alabama case. The role
also includes keeping minutes of board meeting and signing
affidavits, he said.  Federal regulators will ask Merscorp. to make changes, and
“we’re going to spend money to make those changes,” Hultman said
during a Feb. 8  hearing  of an Arizona State Senate committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at
   pgopal2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  