-- 
Essar Offers $350 Million for Shell’s Stanlow Refinery

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-02-18T16:15:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/essar-offers-to-buy-shell-s-stanlow-refinery-for-350-million.html
Essar Group offered to buy  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc ’s Stanlow refinery for $350 million in cash
after more than a year of talks.  Essar, the owner of  India ’s second-largest non-state
refinery, will also pay for its crude and oil product inventory,
which will be about $780 million at current rates. The price
corresponds to $1,182 per barrel of Stanlow’s 296,000 barrel-a-
day capacity, Essar said in a statement. For comparison,  BP Plc 
plans to secure at least $6,000 per barrel of capacity from the
sale of its two U.S. refineries.  Shell granted Essar “exclusivity in relation to the
acquisition until 1 April,” the Indian company said. If Essar
decides not to buy Stanlow, the U.K.’s second-largest refinery,
it will pay $50 million break fee to Shell after March 31.  The Essar Group, controlled by billionaire brothers Sashi
and Ravi Ruia, is targeting 1 million barrels a day of oil
processing capacity by expanding its Indian plant, operated by  Essar Oil Ltd ., and buying refineries in Europe and  Africa .
Shell put up 15 percent of its refining capacity for review
after the global recession reduced fuel demand.  Stanlow “is a high quality refinery in terms of its
employees, its assets, its location and its customer base,”
said Naresh Nayyar, Essar Energy’s chief executive officer.
“Stanlow also fits very well with our strategy.”  Shell confirmed the offer in a separate  announcement .  Exclusive Supply  Essar may also supply some products from its refinery in
Vadinar in the Indian state of Gujarat for further processing at
Stanlow, the company said. Essar has also agreed to exclusively
buy crude and feedstock from Shell on a spot basis for five
years after the transaction to supply Stanlow.  The Indian  steel-to-energy conglomerate  will pay $175
million initially and the remainder on the date of the first
anniversary of the sale, it said.  The group’s U.K. unit,  Essar Energy Plc , may buy a refinery
or storage facilities overseas to help boost exports of cleaner-
burning fuels to be produced by the Gujarat plant, Chief
Financial Officer P. Sampath said Oct. 7. The London-based
company said Jan. 18 it plans to sell $500 million of
convertible bonds to help fund acquisitions, projects and
refinance debt.  Essar Energy raised $1.85 billion in an initial public
offering in  London  in May. Gross debt stood at $4.05 billion at
the end of September, the company said Nov. 12.  Essar Oil purchased a 50 percent stake in Kenya Petroleum
Refineries Ltd. from Shell,  Chevron Corp . and BP in 2009. The
Mombasa-based refinery has a capacity of 90,000 barrels a day,
the permanent secretary in the Energy Ministry,  Patrick Nyoike ,
said on April 2.  Shell put the Stanlow and the Heide and neighboring
Hamburg-Harburg refineries in  Germany  up for sale in 2009.
Private investor Klesch & Co. agreed to buy the 90,000 barrel-a-
day Heide plant in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  