-- 
European Stocks Gain for Third Week; Barclays, Greek Banks Rally

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-02-19T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/european-stocks-gain-for-third-week-barclays-greek-banks-rally.html
European stocks rose for a third
week as better-than-estimated earnings from Barclays Plc to Cap
Gemini SA overshadowed concern about accelerating inflation and
a worsening political crisis in the Middle East.  Barclays rallied 5.9 percent, while Cap Gemini gained 8
percent. Greek banks surged after  National Bank of Greece SA 
made an offer to buy Alpha Bank AE. John Wood Group Plc jumped
13 percent after agreeing to sell its well support division to
General Electric Co. for $2.8 billion. Deutsche Boerse AG lost
6.7 percent after agreeing to buy NYSE Euronext.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index advanced 1.1 percent for its
longest stretch of weekly gains this year. The gauge reached the
highest level since August 2008 on Feb 17, and has advanced 5.5
percent since the start of 2011. Even so, rising profits have
held the gauge at about 15 times the reported earnings of its
companies, less than the average for the past year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Earnings are supporting equities,” said Arnaud Scarpaci,
a  fund manager  at Paris-based Agilis Gestion, which oversees
about $109 million. “Fundamentals are being taken more into
account than the macro economy.”  About 61 percent of Stoxx 600 companies that have reported
annual profit since Jan. 10 have topped analysts’ estimates for
per-share profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Asset Bubbles  Stocks pared some of the week’s gains yesterday after  China ’s central bank raised reserve requirements for lenders as
Premier Wen Jiabao tackles accelerating inflation and the risk
of asset bubbles in the fastest-growing major economy. The move
came as European Central Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said the bank may need to raise  interest rates  as
global inflation pressures mount.  The cost of living in the U.S. climbed more than forecast
in January, led by higher prices for food and fuel that may be
starting to filter through to other goods and services, figures
from the Labor Department showed on Feb. 17.  In the Middle East, protests demanding the ouster of
Bahrain’s Prime Minister Sheikh Khalifa Salman Al Khalifa have
led to the deaths of at least five people since Feb. 14. The
dissent in Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, follows
the toppling of autocratic rulers by popular movements in Egypt
and Tunisia and marks the spread of dissent into the Persian
Gulf, where most of the Middle East’s oil is produced.    Libya , Yemen  In Libya, Africa’s biggest holder of crude oil reserves,
activists yesterday called for more rallies to remove Muammar Qaddafi, in power for more than 40 years, while in Yemen, the
biggest crowd since protests began more than a week ago gathered
to demand the ouster of Ali Abdullah Saleh, president for three
decades.  National benchmark indexes rose in 14 of Europe’s 18
western markets.  France ’s CAC 40 Index gained 1.4 percent, the
U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index  rose 0.3 percent, while  Germany ’s DAX
Index advanced 0.8 percent.  Barclays, the U.K.’s third-largest bank, rose 5.9 percent.
The company reported full-year net income that beat analyst
estimates as investment-banking profit almost doubled and
writedowns shrank. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which is
scheduled to announce results next week, rallied 10 percent.  Greek Banks  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA surged 21 percent, Piraeus Bank SA
climbed 20 percent and Alpha Bank rose 9.9 percent. Greek banks
stocks jumped after National Bank of  Greece , the country’s
largest lender, offered to buy Alpha, aiming to create the
strongest bank in the country and one of the biggest in
southeast Europe.  Cap Gemini, Europe’s biggest computer-services company,
climbed 8 percent after saying full-year profit rose 57 percent
to 280 million euros ($382 million), beating analysts’
estimates, on stronger demand for its technology.
      Danone  advanced 5.2 percent. The world’s biggest yogurt
maker said full-year profit rose 18 percent on sales of Aqua
bottled water and Dumex infant formula in  Asia .  Wood Group, a U.K. oil and gas services company, surged 13
percent after agreeing to sell its well support division to
General Electric and return money to shareholders.
      Meda AB  gained 12 percent after the drugmaker doubled its
dividend to 2 kronor per share and reported higher-than-expected
fourth-quarter earnings of 184 million kronor ($28.7 million).  African Barrick Gold Plc gained 11 percent. The biggest
London-listed producer of the precious metal said full-year
profit more than tripled to $218.1 million from $58.6 milion a
year earlier after gold prices gained.  In-Depth Review       Deutsche Boerse lost 6.7 percent. The operator of the
Frankfurt stock exchange agreed to buy New York Stock Exchange
parent NYSE Euronext for $9.53 billion, creating the world’s
largest owner of equities and derivatives markets. The merger
will likely face an in-depth review by European Union antitrust
regulators, lawyers said.    Trelleborg AB , the world’s biggest maker of vibration-
damping gear, lost 11 percent after reporting fourth-quarter
operating profit of 257 million kronor, less than the 319
million kronor forecast by the average estimate of analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Gestevision Telecinco SA lost 6.7 percent.  Spain ’s largest
commercial television station was cut to “underperform” from
“neutral” at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.    Rentokil Initial Plc , the world’s largest pest-control
company, fell 7.9 percent after a widening loss at its City Link
parcel-delivery unit made the parent company unprofitable.  Micro Focus International Plc slumped 28 percent after
saying its quarterly earnings failed to meet its forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in  London  at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 