-- 
Euro Touches One-Week High After Official Signals ECB May Increase Rates

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-02-18T22:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/euro-rises-after-bini-smaghi-says-ecb-may-raise-rates-as-inflation-climbs.html
The euro rose to a one-week high
against the dollar after the European Central Bank Executive
Board member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  said the bank may need to raise
interest rates as global inflation pressures mount.  The shared currency gained against most major counterparts
and had its first weekly advance in almost a month. The Swiss
franc rose against the greenback as  Egypt  said Iran was granted
permission to send two warships through the  Suez Canal  and
Mideast violence escalated.  “Bini Smaghi came out with very hawkish comments, which
was the catalyst for the euro, and we’ve seen the momentum
continue throughout the day,” said  John Doyle , a strategist in  Washington  at the currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc.
“The Swiss franc has been the beneficiary of the geopolitical
risks in the Middle East.”  The euro rose 0.6 percent to $1.3693 at 5 p.m. in  New York 
and touched $1.3715, the highest level since Feb. 10. Earlier it
dropped as low as $1.3546. The common currency gained 1.1
percent for the week. It strengthened 0.5 percent to 113.90 yen,
from 113.37 yesterday, and reached 113.92 yen, the highest since
Jan. 27.  The yen appreciated 0.2 percent to 83.18 per dollar after
yields on U.S. two-year notes dropped as investors sought safety
amid Middle East turmoil. The lower yields made dollar-
denominated assets less attractive. Earlier the yen fell as much
as 0.3 percent versus the U.S. currency.  ‘Inflationary Pressures’  “As the economy gradually recovers and global inflationary
pressures arise, the degree of accommodation of monetary policy
has to be monitored and, if needed, corrected,” Bini Smaghi
said in an interview with Bloomberg Brief: Economics newsletter.  The greenback has declined this week versus 15 of its 16
most-traded counterparts as minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s
January meeting showed the central bank was dissatisfied with
job growth. Policy makers under Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
have held the benchmark interest rate at zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008, and have said it will remain low for “an
extended period.”  The ECB has kept its key rate at 1 percent since May 2009.  Bini Smaghi, who made his remarks in an interview conducted
by e-mail on Feb. 16, said it’s “essential” to continue to
anchor inflation expectations.  ‘Going Long Euro’  “You juxtapose that with what Bernanke is saying about
rates in the U.S., that they’re going to remain low for a while,
and you gain more on your interest payments by going long euro
versus dollar,” said  Tim O’Sullivan , chief trader at FOREX.com,
a unit of the online  currency trading  company Gain Capital in
Bedminster,  New Jersey . A long position is a bet a currency will
strengthen.  The euro has gained 0.8 percent over the past month in a
basket of 10 developed-market currencies, Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes show. The dollar has lost 1.7 percent.  The Swiss franc rose 0.5 percent to 94.47 centimes per
dollar after Egyptian state television reported approval of a
request by Iran for two warships to use the Suez Canal on their
way to Syria.  Israel  has called the move a “provocation.”
Bahrain’s security forces attacked protesters for a second day,
and unrest surged in Libya and Yemen.  “The warships can increase tensions potentially between  Iran  and Israel, and since Israel is one of the U.S.’s closest
strategic allies, that can weigh on the dollar,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in Washington at Travelex Global
Business Payments, a currency-exchange network.  Crude oil climbed as much as 1.8 percent to a one-week high
of $87.88 a barrel in New York on speculation Mideast tension
may interrupt supplies.  Dollar Index  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, a gauge of
the greenback versus currencies of six of major trading
partners, fell a fourth day, declining 0.5 percent to 77.623.  Sterling rose versus the dollar amid speculation inflation
may soon force the Bank of England to raise interest rates. The
pound reached a two-week high against the dollar after data
showed U.K. retail sales surged 1.9 percent last month, almost
four times forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  The pound climbed as much as 0.6 percent to $1.6263, the
strongest intraday level since Feb. 3, before trading at
$1.6254, up 0.5 percent.  Pressure on the Bank of England to raise its key rate from
a record low of 0.5 percent increased this week after a Feb. 15
report showed inflation accelerated to double the central bank’s
2 percent target.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said the
next day that inflation will peak this year and ease in 2012.  ‘Mildly Bullish’  “Most commentators are at least mildly bullish on the
pound,” said John McCarthy, director of currency trading at ING
Groep NV in New York. “I’m not sure if it’s justified, because
it’s based on rate expectations and King moderated that.”  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers opened a
two-day summit in Paris in an effort to agree on a common
approach to global economic imbalances.  The Canadian dollar was the worst performer against the
greenback after a government report showed annual inflation
slowed in January, discouraging speculation the  Bank of Canada 
will resume boosting interest rates. It slipped 0.2 percent to
98.67 cents per  U.S. dollar .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  