-- 
Levin Says He Doubts U.S. Senate Will Fund General Electric's F-35 Engine

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-02-18T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/levin-doubts-senate-will-fund-general-electric-f-35-engine.html
Chairman of the Senate Armed
Services Committee  Carl Levin  said he doubts the Senate will
fund the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter alternate engine made by  General Electric Co . and Rolls Royce Group Plc.  “I doubt very much that we will do it this year,” said
Levin, a Michigan Democrat who has backed the secondary engine
project. “We did not pass it last year.”  The U.S. House of Representatives voted Feb. 16 to cut $450
million for the GE-Rolls Royce engine from legislation funding
the Pentagon for the rest of the fiscal year ending Sept. 30.    United Technologies Corp .’s Pratt & Whitney unit builds the
primary engine for  Lockheed Martin Corp .’s stealth fighter
plane. Defense Secretary Robert Gates supports the primary
engine and has opposed the secondary engine.  The Feb. 16 vote is “not necessarily the final action” in
the House on the engine, Levin said. In May, 2010, the House
voted 231-193 to continue the program.  Republicans won control of the  House of Representatives  and
gained seats in the Senate in November with candidates who
promised to cut spending and reduce the federal deficit.  GE’s Fighter Future  The defeat for the engine program, if sustained, might mean
GE’s eventual exit from the fighter-engine business because the
F-35 is designed to replace all manned U.S. fighter aircraft.
The market has been estimated as high as $100 billion over the
life of the F-35, including parts and service.  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, in October reported
spending $8.2 million starting in mid-2009 to urge Congress to
fund the alternate engine.  About 2,500 jobs, including in Ohio, Massachusetts and
South Carolina, are tied to the development of the engine with
employment forecast to swell to as much as 4,000 if GE and
Rolls-Royce had reached their projected peak production,
according to  Rick Kennedy , a spokesman for GE Aviation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  