-- 
FDA's Rules for Copying Amgen, Roche Drugs Coming `Very Soon'

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-02-18T18:05:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/fda-says-rules-for-copying-amgen-biotechnology-drugs-to-arrive-very-soon-.html
U.S. regulators plan to unveil rules
for reviewing the first copies of biologic medicines “very
soon,” according to Food and Drug Administration Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg .  The health-care overhaul passed last year included a
provision authorizing a process for approving cheaper copies of
compounds made from living cells. The FDA is evaluating whether
to require extensive clinical trials to judge whether the so-
called biosimilars work as well as the products they copy. The
outcome may differ from generic versions of common drugs now
substituted at pharmacies to keep costs down.  Americans would  save  $25 billion in a decade through
government rules allowing copies of biotech drugs, according to
the  Congressional Budget Office . The products would be patterned
on drugs made by companies such as  Amgen Inc . and  Roche Holding
AG  that have been on the market at least 12 years and have
expired patents.  “This is critically important,” Hamburg said today in an
interview. “We obviously have been thinking about this for some
time as different models have been discussed and debated. We
will be more formally implementing in the very near-term time
frame.”  The FDA isn’t focused on a proposal in the White House
budget to shorten exclusivity to seven years to generate
additional savings because that would require Congress to change
the law, Hamburg said. She declined to say when the first
biosimilar products may be approved under the new rules.  ‘Creating Competition’  Hamburg is meeting with makers of generic drugs in  Orlando ,  Florida , today as part of the Generic Pharmaceutical Association
trade group’s  annual meeting . In the absence of final rules,
generic companies led by  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd .
have been filing the same biologics license applications, or
BLAs, used for brand-name drugs, which may not create as much
savings for patients.  “The issue is really creating competition,” said Bill Marth, president of North American operations for  Petah Tikva ,
Israel-based Teva. “What we really need, desperately need, to
know is what that pathway is so we can stop filing BLAs.”  The FDA asked for more information in September about
Teva’s application to sell copies of Neupogen, a drug made by  Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen to fight infections during
chemotherapy. Teva is also testing copies of Rituxan, a lymphoma
and arthritis treatment from Basel, Switzerland-based Roche and
Weston, Massachusetts-based  Biogen Idec Inc .  The FDA plans to discuss with industry in the next couple
of months how much it will charge to review applications of
biosimilar products under the new rules, according to Hamburg.  While the agency  charges  about $1.5 million for new brand-
name product applications with clinical data, generics have been
so far exempt from any fees. In exchange for payment, the FDA
would offer companies feedback during development and “timely
consideration” of whether their products could be automatically
substituted for brand-name products, Hamburg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in Orlando at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 