-- 
Canada Budget Not Compromised by Cyberattacks on Government, Flaherty Says

-- B y   S a r a   E i s e n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-02-18T14:15:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/flaherty-says-federal-budget-not-compromised-by-cyberattack-concerns.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said concerns about cyberattacks on government websites
haven’t affected preparations for next month’s budget.  Flaherty, speaking in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Paris, said there have been some “security
concerns” in Canada about cyberattacks. He said it’s an issue
of concern for all major economies.  “I can confirm in terms of my own work on the Canadian
budget that that has not been compromised,” Flaherty, attending
meetings of finance ministers and central bankers from Group of
20 countries, said in the interview today.  The Canadian Broadcasting Corp. reported that Canada’s
government was hit by a cyberattack from Chinese-based computers
last month that broke into computer systems at the Finance
Department and Treasury Board. As a result of the attack,  Internet access  in both ministries was cut off, the report said.  Jay Denney, a spokesman for Treasury Board President
Stockwell Day, confirmed an “unauthorized attempt” to access
its  computer networks  and said appropriate action has been taken
in response to the “significant” threat.  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ma Zhaoxu  said at a
press briefing in Beijing yesterday he had no details on reports
that Canada’s government was hit by a cyberattack from Chinese-
based computers.  China respects international laws and is “firmly opposed”
to hacking or targeting networks of other countries, Ma said.
China has itself been a “victim” of such attacks, he said.  “Any report that the Chinese government was in any way
involved in the attacks on  Canada  is a baseless, groundless
sheer fabrication,” Ma said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Paris at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net 
Sara Eisen at   seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  