-- 
Formula One, Apple, DreamWorks: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-02-18T12:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/formula-one-dreamworks-righthaven-intellectual-property.html
Formula One Group lost a court
challenge of a decision that gave another company European
Union-wide rights to a trademark that includes the words “F1-
Live.”  The EU General Court, the 27-nation EU’s second-highest
tribunal, yesterday rejected the appeal, ruling that “there is
no likelihood of confusion between the mark applied for and
Formula One Licensing’s marks given the low degree of
similarity.”  Racing-Live, a motor sports website based in Montpellier,  France , won a challenge in 2008 when the EU trademark agency
backed its bid to register an image with the words F1-Live in it
as a trademark. That was the same year the company, which had
been seeking that trademark since 2004, was acquired by  Walt
Disney Co .’s ESPN Inc.  The group in charge of licensing for Formula One, the
world’s most-watched motor sport, in 2005 challenged the French
company’s application and won the EU trademark agency’s backing
for the claim that such a trademark would be confused with the
group’s existing F1 marks. Formula One appealed to the EU court
when the agency overturned that ruling in 2008.  In yesterday’s ruling, the Luxembourg-based EU court said
that the region’s trademark agency “was correct” in finding
that F1 in ordinary typeset has a weak distinctive character.
People won’t make a connection between the two trademarks
“because of its totally different layout,” the court said.  The case is T-10/09, Formula One Licensing v. OHIM - Racing
- Live (F1-Live).  University of  Texas  Claims Car-Wash Tower Infringes Marks  The University of Texas sued the operator of a car wash for
trademark infringement.  The lawsuit related to  Tower Car Wash Inc. ’s installation
of a 60-foot replica of  the 307-foot tower  on the school’s
campus. The university said in the complaint it filed Feb. 16 in
federal court in Austin, Texas, that the tower is known “as a
symbol of academic excellence and personal opportunity.”  The tower achieved notoriety in 1966 when student Charles
Whitman used it as  a sniper post  to kill 16 people and wound 32
more before he was shot and killed by police.  Tower Car Wash, of Cedar Park, Texas, installed its replica
tower in December. The school said that it “made numerous
attempts” to resolve the dispute with the car wash.  Bob Toesch, the owner of the car wash,  told Associated
Press  in December that he is an alumnus of the university and a
fan of its football team who wanted to create something
“interesting and inspirational.”  Trademarks depicting the tower have been registered with
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the school said. In July,
 the school began selling water  in bottles that replicated the
tower’s shape as part of a campaign to raise money for academic
scholarships to the university.  The replica tower potentially deceived customers who will
falsely assume an affiliation exists between the school and the
car wash, according to the complaint. The company is unjustly
enriched by its use of the tower replica, the university says.  The school asked the court for an order for the destruction
of the replica, and awards of money damages, the car wash’s
profits attributable to the alleged infringement, attorney fees
and litigation costs.  The university is represented by  William G. Barber  and
 Jered E. Matthysse  of Austin’s  Pirkey Barber LLP .  The case is Board of Regents the  University of Texas  System
v. Tower Car Wash Inc., 1:11-cv-00125-LY, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Texas (Austin).  ‘Urban Homestead’ Trademark Enforcement Faces Protests  The  Dervaes Institute , a family-run organization promoting
urban farming, is trying to fend off criticism over its attempts
to enforce some registered trademarks, the L.A. Weekly reported.  The institute, based in Pasadena, California, has 14
registered trademarks and four pending applications, according
to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Among
the marks are “urban homestead, “urban homesteading,” “path
to freedom,” “free the seeds” and “my other supermarket is
my garden.”  According to the institute’s website, the Dervaes family
grows its own food on a lot in Pasadena using the principles of
sustainable agriculture. The institute said  on its blog  that its
enforcement attempts have been misunderstood: “Unfortunately,
this situation has gotten completely out of hand. It’s been
falsely reported that we are shutting down and suing blogs,
schools, libraries -- this is not true.”  The Oakland, California-based  Institute of Urban
Homesteading  said its page on Facebook Inc.’s social-media site
was taken down following a request from the Dervaes Institute.
The group put up a second Facebook page titled “The New
Institute of Urban Home-steading(s).”  It also established a second Facebook page called “Take
Back Urban Home-Steading(s).” By yesterday afternoon, more than
1,500 people had shown support by clicking the “like” button
on the page.  The Dervaes Institute said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday that it didn’t threaten anyone with infringement
litigation. The institute “never claimed that they invented
urban homesteading,” according to the statement.  The institute also forwarded a copy of the standard letter
it sends out to those who have used its registered marks without
authorization. The letter lists the marks and says they should
be “properly acknowledged.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Patents  Apple Seeks Patent on Dual Use Data, Power-Cord Technology    Apple Inc ., maker of the iPad and iPhone, applied for a
patent on a cord for an electronic device that will both supply
power and permit transmission of data.  The Cupertino, California-based company’s application
 20110038582 , published in the database of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office on Feb. 17, covers a power and data adapter
that permits dual use for one cord.  The aim would be the increased use of a portable device on
a desktop. The current battery capacity of portable devices
doesn’t meet the need for daylong computing. Apple also said
that having multiple cables for both power and data clutters up
a desk top.  To avoid potential damage to a device when a cord is
pulled, the application envisions a connector that will easily
disengage when pressure is put on the cord. The connector system
could use magnets, Apple suggested in its application.  The application was filed in October with assistance from
the  San Francisco  firm then known as Townsend & Townsend & Crew,
now part of Atlanta-based Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  DreamWorks’ ‘Kung Fu Panda’ Accused of Copyright Infringement    DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc ., maker of the “Shrek,”
“Madagascar” and “Kung Fu Panda” films, was sued for
copyright infringement by a  Boston  artist.  Jayme Gordon accused the Glendale, California-based studio
of infringing the copyright for his “Kung Fu Panda Power”
works.  According to the complaint filed Feb. 16 in Boston, Gordon
first created his Kung Fu-fighting panda in “the early 1990s”
and registered his copyright in 2000. He began selling clothing
items featuring his characters through a retail store in the
1990s and had costumes made depicting some of his characters.
The characters appeared at promotional events in and around
Boston and were displayed on his website, luckylizard.com, he
said.  Gordon claimed that DreamWorks’ “ King Fu Panda ” films and
other products feature “characters, character depictions,
character personality traits, illustrations, expression,
settings, story elements, plot and sequences of events that are
unlawful copies and derivatives” of his “Kung Fu Panda Power”
work.  Gordon said he sent his illustrations and stories to the
animation division of DreamWorks in the 1990s. He received a
rejection letter in October 1999 acknowledging receipt of the
work, according to his complaint.  He asked the court to order DreamWorks to pay him money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs and to acknowledge
he is an author and creator of the “Kung Fu Panda” products.  DreamWorks didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Gordon is represented by  Gregory A. Madera ,  Juanita R.
Brooks ,  Michael J. Kane ,  Joel D. Leviton  and  Kristen McCallion 
of Boston’s Fish & Richardson PC and Mark A. Fischer of
Philadelphia’s  Duane Morris LLP .  The case is Jayme Gordon v. DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc.,
1:11-cv-010255-JLT, U.S. District Court, District OF  Massachusetts  (Boston).  Righthaven Seeks Review of Court’s ‘Fair Use’ Ruling  Righthaven LLC, the  Las Vegas  entity that has filed more
than 100 copyright-infringement lawsuits since March against
websites that posted stories from the  Las Vegas Review-Journal ,
is appealing the dismissal of one of its cases.  It sued  Realty One Group Inc. , a Las Vegas-based real
estate firm, for infringement in June. Righthaven said the firm
infringed by posting on a website an article about housing sales
that was published originally in the newspaper.  The Las Vegas Review-Journal is owned by Stephens Inc.’s
Stephens Media Group unit. The media group, based in Las Vegas,
published newspapers in Arkansas, Hawaii,  Nevada ,  Missouri ,  North Carolina ,  Oklahoma ,  Tennessee , Texas and Washington state,
 according to  the Columbia Journalism Review. It also operates
the CasinoGaming.com website and websites associated with its
newspaper holdings.  U.S. District Judge Larry R. Hicks dismissed one defendant
from the Realty One case in October, saying the actions
Righthaven complained about fell into U.S. copyright law’s
“fair use” provisions. Righthaven then consented to the
dismissal of the other defendants, including Realty One.  On Feb. 11, Righthaven filed a notice with the court that
it would appeal the ruling on fair use.  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Realty One Group Inc., 2:10-
cv-01036-LRH-PAL, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las
Vegas).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Howrey’s William Rooklidge, Frank Cote Jump to Jones Day  Jones Day hired two  intellectual-property  specialists from
Howrey LLP, the international firm said in a  statement .  One of the new hires is William C. Rooklidge, who
previously headed the Washington firm’s IP practice. Leaving
with him is Frank P. Cote. Both will practice in Jones Day’s
office in  Irvine ,  California .  Rooklidge  also previously practiced at San Francisco’s
Howard Rice Nemerovski Canady Falk & Rabkin.  He has done
patent- and trademark-infringement litigation, mediation and
arbitration. His clients’ technologies have included
communications, diesel engines, software, electronics, sporting
goods and financial services.  He served as a judicial clerk for Judge Helen W. Nies of
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, the
Washington-based court that hears appeals of patent cases.
Before he was a lawyer, Rooklidge was a professional engineer
and designed manufacturing machinery.  Rooklidge has an undergraduate degree in mechanical
engineering from the University of Portland, a law degree from
Lewis & Clark Law School and a master’s degree in patent and
trade regulation law from George Washington University.  Cote , also a litigator, has handled patent, trademark and
trade-secret disputes in technologies that included integrated
circuit design and manufacturing and medical devices. Before he
was a lawyer, Cote was an officer in the U.S. Air Force, where
he worked on the International Space Station.  Cote has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from Clarkson University and a law degree from Loyola Law School
of  Los Angeles .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 