-- 
Fortescue ‘Disappointed’ After Court Rules It Misled Investors

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 
2011-02-18T09:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/fortescue-disappointed-after-court-rules-it-misled-investors.html
  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd . is
“deeply disappointed” after a court ruled that  Australia ’s
third-biggest iron ore miner and its Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Forrest  misled investors over accords with China.  “The company is now reviewing the judgment before deciding
on its next course of action,” Perth-based spokesman  Cameron Morse  said in a phone interview, declining to say whether the
company will appeal the decision. Earlier today, the Federal
Court of Australia upheld an appeal from the nation’s corporate
regulator, which initiated the legal action.  Forrest and Fortescue have to pay the costs of the appeal
by the  Australian Securities and Investments Commission , or ASIC,
according to a faxed copy of the court orders today by three
judges of the Federal Court. The judges overturned a Dec. 23,
2009, judgment in favor of Forrest and his Perth-based company,
who both denied the allegations.  The regulator had alleged Forrest and Fortescue engaged in
misleading and deceptive conduct in 2004 by overstating
agreements with three Chinese companies for the development of
its A$2.8 billion ($2.83 billion) ore project. Forrest also
breached duties as a director, the regulator claimed.  “It is a curiosity of this case that there was no evidence
that any member of the investing public was misled by, or
suffered loss as a result of Fortescue’s contraventions,” the
judges said in today’s ruling. “Presumably, that is because
those who invested in Fortescue have profited handsomely from
that investment.”  Fortescue, which earlier reported a sevenfold jump in
first-half profit, had its shares halted today on the Australian
stock exchange pending a statement on the appeal. It now has a
market value of A$21.4 billion.  Penalty Pending  Fortescue and Forrest contravened parts of the Corporations
Act 2001, according to today’s ruling. The matter will be sent
back to a Federal Court judge, it said.  “There’s been no decision from the Federal Court in
relation to penalties; that will be dealt with at a later
date,” Emma Forhan, a spokeswoman for ASIC, said today by phone.
Forrest faces possible penalties, including being barred as a
director and paying a fine.  ASIC alleged Fortescue had incorrectly claimed in
statements between Aug. 23, 2004, and Nov. 9, 2004, when its
shares jumped 35 percent, that it had agreed binding contracts
with China Railway Engineering Corp., China Harbour Engineering
Corp. and  China  Metallurgical Construction (Group).  “ASIC appealed the Federal Court’s Fortescue decision
because the trial judge’s finding raised critical issues about
the proper interpretation of the parts of the Corporations Act
that govern company announcements,” regulator Chairman Tony D’Aloisio said in an e-mailed statement today. “Today’s result
provides important reinforcement to the operation of the
continuous disclosure provisions of the Act.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  