-- 
Banque Postale Asset Management Buys Irish Debt, Betting on Euro Recovery

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-02-18T13:09:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/france-s-banque-postale-buys-irish-spanish-bonds-on-region-recovery-bet.html
La Banque Postale Asset Management,  France ’s fifth-largest money manager by assets, bought Irish and
Spanish bonds last month as it bet European leaders will succeed
in preserving monetary union.  “The process is chaotic and volatile but we still believe
that the euro zone will survive,” said Rachid Medjaoui, deputy
chief investment officer at the company, which manages 126
billion euros ($171 billion). “The optimistic side on the  euro
zone  has become very strong for many weeks.”  European Union leaders have given themselves until March 25
to craft what German Chancellor Angela Merkel has called a
“comprehensive” package to address the financial crisis.
Measures under discussion include stiffer sanctions against
nations with budget deficits higher than 3 percent of gross
domestic product, lower  interest rates  on loans and allowing the
European Financial Stability Facility, or EFSF, to buy debt
directly from member states.  La Banque Postale Asset Management, a unit of  La Poste , the
French national postal service operator, was “cautious” on the
euro region’s most-indebted countries until mid-January, when it
bought some short-term securities, Medjaoui said in a telephone
interview from Paris on Feb. 16. He declined to specify the
maturities or how much was bought. The fund may reduce its
holdings before the leaders’ meeting to guard against market
“disappointment,” he said.  ‘Too Many Expectations’  “The risk for us is that there are too many expectations
for this summit and we could have some disappointment,” he
said. “We wanted to go bullish on this issue, but when we come
to the summit we will probably decide to reduce our exposure
again. The market wants very real progress” on the euro-region
debt solution, Medjaoui said.  Optimism that a deal can be reached waned this month as  Portugal  said delays in overhauling the rescue fund threatens a
new bout of market turmoil, and Greece joined  Italy  in objecting
to annual numerical debt-reduction targets proposed by  Germany .
Portuguese 10-year bond yields rose 63 basis points since
reaching a two-week low on Feb. 2 as the nation struggles to
convince markets it can avoid following  Greece  and Ireland in
requesting financial aid.  “What we could have in one or two months is just an
announcement from the politicians,” Medjaoui said. “The agenda
of politicians is not the same as the markets.”  About 70 percent of the assets overseen by Banque Postale
Asset Management is in fixed income, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  