-- 
G-20’s OTC Derivatives Plan May Cut Competition Among Platforms

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-02-18T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/g-20-s-otc-derivatives-plan-may-cut-competition-among-platforms.html
The Group of 20’s push to boost
transparency in over-the-counter derivatives may cut some of the
competition between trading platforms, global securities
regulators said today.  Authorities should take a “flexible approach” in setting
rules for trading venues in order to “maximize the number” of
different products that can be handled, the  International
Organization of Securities Commissions  said in a report on its
website that weighed potential costs and benefits of revamped
derivatives rules.  As part of its response to the crisis, G-20 leaders sought
to curb potential risks from OTC derivatives, which are traded
directly between counterparties or via brokers. In 2009 they
called for standard forms of OTC derivatives contracts to “be
traded on exchanges or electronic trading platforms, where
appropriate.”  The bid to bring OTC derivatives out of the shadows may
lead to the “reduction of incentives for certain types of
innovation, together with the potential loss of existing
platforms” that would no longer comply with rules for handling
derivatives trades, IOSCO said. This “could ultimately reduce
the variety of and certain types of competition between platform
providers.”  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008 sent
shockwaves through the financial system, as its derivatives
counterparties had to write down investments. The turmoil led
regulators and lenders to review how they account for and manage
the risk of counterparty defaults to mitigate the potential for
one shock to trigger another.  Other parts of the G-20 initiative may lead to “downward
pressure on trading costs” because of increased competition
between traders on exchanges, and reduced systemic risk, IOSCO
said.  IOSCO, based in  Madrid , brings together securities
regulators to set international standards for supervision of
financial markets. Its members include the U.K. Financial
Services Authority, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 