-- 
G-20 Nations Divided on Use of Capital Reserves as an Early Warning Signal

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-02-18T17:54:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/g-20-nations-divided-on-use-of-capital-reserves-as-an-early-warning-signal.html
Emerging economies such as China and  Russia  are resisting efforts by the world’s richest economies to
include income flows between countries in early-warning
indicators that aim to gauge risks to the global economy.  Finance ministers and central bankers from the G-20 are
meeting today and tomorrow in Paris seeking an agreement on the
use of economic indicators to monitor the skewed trade and
financial flows that pitched the world into crisis.  “We don’t have the right to ignore the red line of
others,” French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said in a speech to
officials at the Elysee Palace. “But we must aim for more
coordination despite our respective red lines.”  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told reporters in
Paris that there seems to be a “general agreement” among Group
of 20 countries on using public debt and private savings data as
indicators, while differences remain on invoking a current
account measure that tracks income flows between countries.
Flaherty said  China , the world’s second-biggest economy, has
“its own view” on the matter.  “We should try to have an agreement,” Flaherty told
reporters. “It’s a very important first step.”  Policy makers are trying to avoid a repeat of the last
expansion when U.S. consumers relied on borrowing from abroad to
finance their purchases, contributing to an export boom from  Asia . As China and other Asian nations accumulated dollars from
trade surpluses, they bought U.S. Treasury debt and depressed
global yields. Lower borrowing costs helped stoke the U.S.
housing and credit booms that later turned to bust.  Seoul Agreement  While G-20 governments failed to agree on shrinking
current-account shortfalls during a meeting in  Seoul  last
November, they decided to find a set of “indicative
guidelines” designed to identify large imbalances and seek
actions needed to fix them.  Debt and deficits, as well as the size of foreign exchange
reserves, savings ratios and growth differentials, are among the
indicators that host French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde 
put up for discussion at the Paris meeting.  Canada’s Flaherty said an agreement this week by finance
officials would allow the G-20 to begin work on “guidelines”
that could be agreed to at their next meeting scheduled in  Washington  in April.  Russian Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  said that
efforts by some countries to include indicators of capital
reserves may stand in the way of an agreement. “If the U.S. and
the U.K. will put an amount of reserves as a kind of indicator,
that’s our biggest concern,” he told reporters.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  predicted that
governments will still move toward taking into consideration
both external and domestic indicators.  ‘No Alternative’  “You have to look at measures of imbalance,” he said at an
event in Paris today. “There’s no alternative.”  Countries should consider measures of external
imbalances, like current account, as well as internal measures,
Geithner said. `I'm sure you'll see the world move in that
direction,'' he said.  German Deputy Finance Minister Joerg Asmussen said that a
“vast majority” of countries support the approach of a more
comprehensive list of indicators.  “In order to assess whether a country is in balance or
unbalanced, we as  Germany  strongly think that you cannot rely on
a single indicator in assessing this, but you need a set of
indicators to assess your economic situation,” Asmussen in a
Bloomberg Television interview with Francine Lacqua.  Current Account  European Union officials want the scorecard to include the
current-account balance, public deficit and debt, savings ratio,
net foreign assets, reserve adequacy, real effective  exchange
rate  and private date, according to an EU position paper.  The U.S. current-account deficit widened to $127.2 billion
in the third quarter, the biggest in almost two years, as
imports rose. The current account is the broadest measure of
international trade that includes income payments and government
transfers.  China, which overtook Japan as the world’s second-biggest
economy last year, reported a smaller-than-forecast January
trade surplus of about $6.5 billion, the smallest in nine
months.  Flaherty said the “private financial position” indicator
will include measures of private- sector savings and debt, while
a “public financial position” indicator will be captured by
government debt and deficits.  An agreement on private and
public debt indicators appears “likely,” while a pact on the
current account measure faces more “difficulty,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Paris at  targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in Paris at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  