-- 
Geithner Called Housing Giants Biggest ‘Moral Hazard’

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-02-19T00:19:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/geithner-told-fcic-fannie-freddie-were-biggest-sources-of-moral-hazard-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said government-sponsored mortgage giants  Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac were the biggest sources of “moral hazard,”
leading investors to count on a bailout for risks gone wrong.  Geithner, in a November 2009 interview with the  Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission , also said he initially opposed a
government bailout of insurer  American International Group Inc .,
and changed his mind when he realized the alternative would have
been a “terrible nightmare” on a worldwide scale.  At the time of the crisis, Geithner was president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  and involved in some of the key
decisions, including the refusal to rescue  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc . The collapse of Lehman Brothers deepened the
financial crisis that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
has called the worst in history.  Geithner said Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , the mortgage-
finance companies that have been sustained by U.S. aid since
September 2008, “were entirely moral hazard.” An audio
recording of the interview was released yesterday.  He said he changed his mind on bailing out AIG after
deciding any alternative would have caused “a classic retail
insurance panic.”  Geithner, 49, spoke with panel commissioners on topics
including the rescue of Bear Stearns Cos., the weakness of
financial supervision and the dilemma regulators face when
deciding which firms could threaten the broader financial
system.  Reducing Support  Last week Geithner released the Obama administration’s
options for reducing government support for Fannie and Freddie.
U.S. taxpayer aid to the companies will reach $224 billion by
the end of 2012, of which $55 billion will be returned in
dividends to the Treasury, according to President Barack Obama’s
2012 budget.  Geithner told the panel that supervision of U.S. financial
institutions eroded during years of stability and needs to be
improved.  Supervisors aren’t “paid very much, they don’t get much
training,” he said. “They don’t spend any time in the market.
They’ve got a much less sophisticated understanding of the
institutions they’re supposed to supervise than they would need
to do it effectively.”  Geithner said “nothing would make me happier than to have
a bunch of generals come in and figure out how to improve the
basic craft of supervision and make it tougher again.”  When asked by the panel how he can determine which
companies are crucial to financial stability, Geithner said
“there’s no objective standard for what’s systemic. It’s only a
judgment you can make at the time.” He added that “you just
have to look at broad measures.”  2008 Crisis  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of
regulators charged with preventing a repeat of the 2008 crisis,
is considering criteria for deciding which non-bank financial
companies are systemically important and warrant Federal Reserve
oversight. Geithner is the chairman of the council, which was
created by the Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul law Congress passed
last year, after Geithner’s interview with the panel.  “Secretary Geithner fought hard for the passage of the
Dodd-Frank Act,”  Steven Adamske , a Treasury spokesman, said in
an e-mail statement. “We are working aggressively to implement
that legislation.”  AIG Rescue  Entering the September 2008 weekend when regulators
including then-Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  and Bernanke
decided to rescue AIG and not Lehman Brothers, Geithner said he
was “completely against” saving the insurer.  Geithner reconsidered after “looking at the way an
insolvency regime would work for a global insurance company,”
he said. “It would be a terrible mess, much worse than
Lehman.”  New York-based AIG had “real companies operating
businesses and generating a huge amount of earnings over time,
huge market share,” Geithner said. “Lehman was like, a bunch
of people. It was going to go away in a heartbeat.”  AIG was bailed out in a rescue that swelled to $182.3
billion. New York-based Lehman Brothers filed the largest
bankruptcy in U.S. history.  Geithner had discouraged AIG’s appeal for aid from the Fed
seven weeks before the bailout, the company’s former chief
executive officer, Robert Willumstad, said in May 2010.  Bear Stearns, which was sold to  JPMorgan Chase & Co . with
Fed backing in March 2008, “absolutely” was systemic, Geithner
told the commission. “It was like stage one of the panic.”
Because Bear Stearns had a willing buyer, “we had a solution to
avoid a catastrophic default.”  ‘Completely Different’  Lehman Brothers was “completely different,” Geithner
said. “The scale of the financial panic globally was much more
powerful at that point. Every other institution was weaker.
There was no willing buyer large enough really to take over the
vast bulk of the obligations of the firm.” Though  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp . and London-based
Barclays Plc “came closest,” they weren’t willing, Geithner
said.  Asked about global monetary policies, Geithner said most
major countries have moved to exchange rates that are flexible
against the dollar, with China and Persian Gulf oil-producing
nations the two “big exceptions.” Referring to  China , Geithner
said, “that’s going to have to change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  