-- 
Geithner Sees More ‘Enthusiasm’ in Europe for Bank Bailouts

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-02-18T19:53:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/geithner-sees-more-enthusiasm-in-europe-for-bank-bailouts.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  came to Paris and chided European authorities today for
their willingness to bail out banks.  While the U.S. spent trillions of dollars to prevent the
collapse of its financial system in 2008 and 2009, U.S.
regulators have since forced big banks to hold more capital and
have sought to make the banking system more evenly regulated and
more able to allow individual institutions to fail.  “To be direct about it, you have much less tolerance for
allowing failure of financial institutions,” Geithner said
today at a conference organized alongside a Group of 20 meeting
of finance ministers. “There is more willingness and
enthusiasm” to set lower  capital requirements  and “rely more
on the implicit broad guarantees that the state is more willing
to provide in parts of  Europe ,” he said.  The Treasury chief’s comments underscore tensions between
U.S. and European regulators over how to follow through on
commitments to coordinate and toughen bank oversight. The G-20
meeting in Paris is their first gathering since a Seoul summit
that concluded with a pledge to raise regulatory standards at
the national and international levels.  The  Federal Reserve  has ordered the 19 largest U.S. banks
to test their capital levels against a scenario of renewed
recession. The review, to be completed in March, follows a 2009
review that required the same group of banks to raise an
additional $74.6 billion in capital.  ‘More Ambitious’  Geithner said big banks should be held to a “much more
ambitious, much more conservative” set of requirements than
their smaller counterparts. That’s because they have more
capacity to damage the financial system when they fail or are on
the brink of collapse, he said.    Societe Generale  SA Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea 
said Jan. 24 that global plans to make a list of banks deemed
systemically important and make them hold extra capital may
backfire by creating more lenders that are too big to fail.  Banks have “real concerns” about the  Financial Stability
Board  and other regulators “designating groups of firms” as
systemically important, said Oudea, adding that lenders want
changes to liquidity rules drawn up by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision . Oudea chairs the Institute of International
Finance’s steering committee on regulatory capital and made the
comments as part of a presentation on behalf of the IIF.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Rebecca Christie  in Paris at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  