-- 
Genghis Khan Dentists, Kind Corpses Vie for Odd Title Prize

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-02-18T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/genghis-khan-dentists-generous-corpses-compete-for-u-k-odd-title-prize.html
The next time your dentist tortures
your mouth, take a look at his bookshelf. Perhaps he has studied
“Managing a Dental Practice: The Genghis Khan Way,” one of six
finalists for this year’s Diagram Prize for Oddest Book Title.  First awarded in 1978 and organized by Britain’s Bookseller
trade magazine, the Diagram Prize seeks to celebrate the
diversity of publishing and get a few giggles. Past winners
include “The Joy of Chickens,” “How to Avoid Huge Ships,” 
“Living With Crazy Buttocks,” and “Versailles: The View From  Sweden .”  This year’s finalists -- announced by the Bookseller in an
e-mailed statement -- offer something for just about everyone,
though necrophiles may be disappointed by “ The Generosity of
the Dead ,” a study on organ procurement.    Silvio Berlusconi  might enjoy “ The Italian’s One-Night
Love-Child ,” a romance novel in which house-sitter Bethany
Maguire succumbs to a night of passion with billionaire
Cristiano De Angelis and gets pregnant.  If that sounds too torrid, try “8th International Friction
Stir Welding Symposium Proceedings,” a collection of papers
presented at a gathering in  Germany .  For animal lovers, there’s “What Color Is Your Dog?”, in
which Hollywood dog trainer  Joel Silverman  discusses his
techniques. And surely no library is complete without “ Myth of
the Social Volcano ,” in which a Harvard sociologist asks
Chinese citizens how they feel about inequalities that have
arisen from the Sino market experiment.  As for “ Managing a Dental Practice: The Genghis Khan
Way ,” it’s a guide to “survival and empire-building in the
dentistry business,” according to its publisher, Radcliffe.  The winner, to be selected via a public vote on
 thebookseller.com , will be announced on March 25.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 