-- 
GERMAN DAYBOOK: Moody’s Downgrades Banks’ Debt on Planned Law

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-02-18T06:51:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/german-daybook-moody-s-downgrades-banks-debt-on-planned-law.html
German banks’ subordinated debt
securities valued at 24 billion euros ($33 billion) were
downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service on the prospect that new
legislation will increase the risk of losses among debt holders.  The cuts apply to 248 subordinated securities together with
tranches of debt programs issued or backed by 24 banks. The
average rating reduction was 2 1/2 levels, Moody’s said. The
subordinated debt is unlikely to benefit from future German
government support, it said.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,
Munich-based Bayerische Landesbank and DekaBank Deutsche
Girozentrale, the fund manager for  Germany ’s state-owned savings
banks, were among lenders whose securities were downgraded.  WHAT TO WATCH:
*Federal Statistics Office releases Germany producer prices data
for January at 8:00 a.m. CET.
* Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  patent case against IPCom GmbH in court at Mannheim,
Germany, ruling expected in the morning.
*Porsche SE shareholder lawsuit over 2010 meeting, hearing in
Stuttgart court, scheduled for 11 a.m.
*Chancellor Angela Merkel gives campaign speech in Halle an der
Saale, 11 a.m.  ECONOMY:
* Finland  has no plans to nominate its central bank governor as a
candidate to succeed ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet, Reuters
reported, citing an interview with Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen. The race between Italy and Germany for the post hasn’t
really changed, Reuters cited Katainen as saying.
*Jens Weidmann, who is to take over as Bundesbank president on
May 1, lacks experience in leading large organizations with many
employees, former Bundesbank President  Ernst Welteke  said,
Financial Times Deutschland reported, citing an interview.
*Germany’s BND federal intelligence agency has no evidence that
former Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  wants to leave his
country, Die Welt cited Ernst Uhrlau, the service’s head, as
saying in an interview. Mubarak’s comment that he wants to stay
and be buried in  Egypt  is credible, the newspaper quoted Uhrlau
as saying.  EQUITIES:
* Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, said the
Justice Department ended an antitrust investigation into the
German maker’s power transmission systems. Siemens spokesman
Alexander Becker didn’t specify why the U.S. case was closed.
* Elmos Semiconductor AG (ELG) , the Dortmund-based maker of chips for
the car industry, posted earnings per share of 38 euro cents as
sales rose 5 percent in the fourth quarter from the previous
quarter, according to a release on the DGAP business wire.
*Hapag-Lloyd, the container line part-owned by  TUI AG (TUI1) , is
targeting April 15 as the preliminary date for its initial
public offering, Financial Times Deutschland reported, without
saying where it got the information.
* Bayer AG (BAYN)  will keep its research-and-development spending steady
next year at about 3 billion euros ($4.1 billion), Financial
Times Deutschland reported, citing an agreement between the
company and its works council.  MARKETS:
*The  DAX Index (DAX)  fell 0.1 percent to close at 7,405.51.
*The  Stoxx Europe (SXXP)  600 Index rose 0.2 percent to close at 291.16.
*The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.6 percent to 140.02 as of
7:40 a.m. Frankfurt time.
*Germany’s 10-year bond yield at 3.183
*Euro -- U.S. $1.3604 as of 7:40 a.m. Frankfurt time  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  