-- 
German Bonds Decline as Bini Smaghi Says Rates May Need to Rise

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-02-18T17:16:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/german-two-year-goverment-notes-decline-as-producer-inflation-accelerates.html
German bonds slumped after European
Central Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  said the
bank may need to raise  interest rates  to contain inflation.  Portuguese bonds pared a decline as traders said the ECB
bought the nation’s debt today as yields rose to within five
basis points of the most since the euro’s inception in 1999.
Increasing inflationary pressure would mean “the degree of
accommodation of monetary policy has to be monitored and, if
needed, corrected,” Bini Smaghi said in an interview with daily
newsletter Bloomberg Brief: Economics. Demand for overnight
loans from the ECB increased to a 20-month high.  “It was an extremely hawkish statement and the market took
it in a bearish manner, particularly the short end,” said  Kornelius Purps , a fixed- income strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Munich. “The market had failed to react to a series of higher-
than-expected inflation readings. Fundamentals and the market
are getting better aligned.”  The two-year German yield, typically most sensitive to rate
expectations, climbed eight basis points to 1.40 percent as of
5:13 p.m. in  London . The 1 percent security due December 2012
fell 0.135, 1.35 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,364) face amount, to
99.29. The 10-year bund yield increased seven basis points to
3.25 percent.  Producer prices in  Europe ’s largest economy increased 5.7
percent from a year earlier, accelerating from the 5.3 percent
pace in December, the  Federal Statistics Office  said today. The
median of 20 economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey was for
prices to rise by 5.1 percent.  ‘Pre-emptive Actions’  Commodity-price increases will “have an unavoidable
impact” and “it is a key challenge for monetary policy to
avoid spillovers and maintain inflation expectations in check,”
Bini Smaghi said. “This requires the ability to take pre-
emptive actions if needed.”  German  government bonds  have lost investors 1.4 percent
this year, while French debt lost 1.2 percent, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Greek debt returned investors 3.1
percent and Spanish bonds gained 1.5 percent, the indexes show.  Portuguese government bonds declined earlier on speculation
elections in  Germany  will derail European Union attempts to
reach an agreement on extending the region’s rescue fund and
stem the debt crisis.    Chancellor Angela Merkel  is negotiating a comprehensive EU
plan to contain the crisis as German voters resist handouts to
indebted nations. The city-state of Hamburg holds elections Feb.
20, with polls showing the  Social Democrats  will likely oust
Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union . CDU backing has withered to
25 percent from almost 43 percent at the last election in
February 2008, a GMS poll yesterday for Sat.1 Norddeutschland
television showed.  ‘Peripheral Risk’  “There’s a risk to peripheral bonds if Germany is seen not
to be displaying support for the countries that are in
trouble,” said  Orlando Green , assistant director of capital-
markets strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment bank
in London. “The market would have been hoping that a deal would
have been struck already” before the elections, he said.  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield increased three basis points
to 7.48 percent, leaving it 14 basis points higher in the week.
The Italian yield rose six basis points to 4.80 percent. The
Spanish yield increased one basis point to 5.38 percent.  The Frankfurt-based central bank bought debt due in five
years, one person familiar with the transactions said, asking
not to be identified because the deals are confidential. An ECB
spokesman in  Frankfurt  declined to comment.    Finland  Sale  The difference in yield, or spread, that investors demand
to hold 10-year Spanish securities instead of similar maturity
bunds, has widened 23 basis points since Feb. 4, the last
trading day before a European summit that failed to resolve
differences over a bailout fund created to help member states
service their deficits. The spread was at 212 basis points
today.  Portugal ’s 10-year bond yielded 422 basis points more
than the bund, 379 basis points on Feb. 4.  Finland’s 10-year bond yield increased four basis points to
3.42 percent, as the country prepared to sell floating-rate
securities through banks. The notes will be denominated in
pounds and will be priced to yield about 5 basis points more
than the London interbank offered rate, said two people with
knowledge of the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  