-- 
Ghana Central Bank Holds Key Interest Rate at 13.5%, Amissah-Arthur Says

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-02-18T14:50:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/ghana-central-bank-holds-key-interest-rate-at-13-5-update1-.html
Ghana’s  central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for the third consecutive
meeting of its monetary policy committee after inflation climbed
for the first time in 19 months.  The policy rate was maintained at 13.5 percent, Bank of  Ghana  Governor Kwesi Amissah-Arthur told reporters today in the
capital, Accra. Six of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had
forecast the decision. One person expected it to be either
maintained or increased, without giving a specific figure.  Inflation accelerated to 9.1 percent in January from 8.6
percent the month before, as gasoline prices jumped 30 percent
and the cedi depreciated. The cedi which fell 3.7 percent
against the dollar last year, lost 5.5 percent in January,
pushing up import costs. Still, inflation will remain within the
target band of 8.5 percent, plus or minus 2 percentage points,
at the end of the year, Amissah-Arthur said.  “The recent hike in fuel prices and the currency weakness
are probably already having an impact on prices,”  Alan Cameron ,
sub-Saharan Africa analyst at Business Monitor International
said in an e-mailed note.  Inflation, which fell from a five-year peak of 20.7 percent
in June 2009, prompted the central bank to lower its key lending
four times between November 2009 and July last year in a bid to
convince commercial lenders to lower their own interest levels.  With banks’ lending rates for November to January remaining
at 27.6 percent, the central bank “will not see a great need to
adjust the prime rate just yet,”  Razia Khan , London-based head
of Africa research at Standard Chartered Plc, said in an e-
mailed note today. “The effort to boost bank lending
continues,” she said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 