-- 
Giffords Shooting Not Cooling Western Arms Ardor as Utah Plans State Gun

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-02-18T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/giffords-shooting-not-cooling-western-arms-ardor-as-utah-plans-state-gun.html
Lawmakers from  Arizona  to Wyoming,
the mountain region of Western movies and home to four of the
five  fastest-growing states , are moving forward with gun laws
that would be among the nation’s most permissive, undeterred by
the shooting of U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords .  Arizona, where the shooting took place last month, is
considering a proposal to allow firearms on college campuses.
Wyoming’s Senate passed a bill to authorize residents to carry
 concealed weapons  without a permit. Utah, which has a state
flower and a state song, is poised to name a state gun: the
 Browning .45 , a semiautomatic pistol and precursor to the Glock
handgun that killed six and injured 13, including Giffords.  Westerners have long regarded guns as tools for hunting and
self-protection rather than instruments of crime, said Janalee
Tobias, 47, the founder of Utah-based  Women Against Gun Control .
Even horrifying incidents such the Giffords shooting aren’t
likely to change that, she said.  “Let’s just acknowledge it, there’s a huge difference
between Easterners and Westerners,” Tobias said in a telephone
interview from her home near  Salt Lake City . “I would attribute
it in the West to open space. We know that we’re on our own.”  FBI  records  show gun demand last year outpaced population
in the intermountain states, which are bordered or ringed by the
Rockies and the Sierra Nevada and Cascades. Arizona,  Colorado ,  Idaho ,  Montana ,  Nevada ,  New Mexico , Utah and Wyoming, which make
up 8 percent of the  U.S. population , accounted for 10.5 percent
of federal  background checks  for gun sales.  Background Checks  Firearms checks in the eight-state region rose 21 percent
to 1.51 million from the previous year, Federal Bureau of
Investigation statistics show. Nevada, followed by Arizona, Utah
and Idaho, had the biggest population increase in the past
decade, according to the  Census Bureau .  Gun retailers are required by law to contact the FBI for a
check on prospective buyers before a firearm can be sold. The
number of background checks doesn’t correlate one-to-one with
the number of guns sold, due to variations in state laws and
purchasing, the FBI said.  Nationwide, gun-buyer reviews increased 2.7 percent to 14.4
million in 2010. Weapons-maker  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp .,
based in Springfield,  Massachusetts , said revenue for the year
ended April 30 rose 21 percent to $406.2 million, while sales at
Southport, Connecticut-based Sturm Ruger & Co. Inc. gained 49
percent to $271 million in 2009.  ‘Fear Factor’  “A lot of it had to do with the fear factor of having a
president and a Congress who were not seen as friendly toward
firearms rights,” said Bill Brassard, a spokesman for the
 National Shooting Sports Foundation , a firearms industry trade
group in Newtown,  Connecticut .  The $1 billion U.S. handgun market, based on analysis of
production and excise-tax data, is a fraction of total gun
sales.  Excise-tax  collections on firearms and ammunition sales
rose 45 percent to $453 million in 2009, according to a Treasury
Department audit last year. The federal government taxes pistols
and revolvers at 10 percent and other firearms and ammunition at
11 percent.  The  Utah  state Senate approved a bill Feb. 10 to designate
an official state firearm. Lawmakers’ choice, the  M1911 pistol 
used by Humphrey Bogart in “The Maltese Falcon” and
“Casablanca,” was designed by native son John Browning.
 Browning Arms , now a unit of closely held FN Herstal SA, based
in  Belgium , was founded in Utah in 1927. The bill awaits the
signature of Governor Gary R. Herbert, a Republican.  Carl Wimmer, the state representative who sponsored the
bill, said the Jan. 8 shooting in neighboring Arizona hasn’t
recast the debate over Utah’s firearms laws. A 22-year-old
Tucson man, Jared Lee Loughner, was arrested at the scene of the
shootings that killed six and wounded 13, including Giffords, a
 supporter  of gun rights.  ‘Demonizing’ Firearms  “It happens every single time, without fail,” Wimmer
said. “The groups or organizations that are anti-gun use these
incidents to demonize the firearm. Stronger gun laws do not stop
people from shooting people if they want to do that.”  Before the Tucson shooting, lawmakers in Utah had discussed
joining Arizona, Vermont and  Alaska  in allowing residents to
carry concealed firearms without permits, state Senator  John
Valentine  said.  “I think there would have been momentum for that here in
Utah if it had not been for the shooting in Arizona,” said
Valentine, a Republican. “It may come up again.”  Permissive Laws  Utah’s concealed-carry law was among the reasons the  Brady
Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence , a Washington-based gun-control
advocate, rated the state as having the nation’s most permissive
gun laws, said Paul Helmke, president of the group. He
attributed gun-law easing in Utah, Arizona and  Wyoming  to the
efforts of the  National Rifle Association .  Last year, the NRA and other gun-rights groups spent $14
million on campaigns and lobbying, according to the Washington-
based Center for Responsive Politics. Gun-control groups spent
$185,000.  “They’re pushing to get more and more guns into more and
more hands in more and more places,” Helmke said. “They’re
finding that in the more rural, less-populated areas, they’re
able to push their agenda more successfully.”  The NRA’s media office in Fairfax,  Virginia , didn’t respond
to phone messages and e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  