-- 
Sugar May Swing to Surplus Next Year, Kingsman Says

-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 
2011-02-18T11:09:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/global-sugar-market-may-swing-to-surplus-prices-may-drop-kingsman-says.html
Global sugar output may beat demand
for the first time in four years if “normal weather” returns
to the biggest growing nations, according to Kingsman SA.  There may be a “small surplus” in the year from April 1
as farmers in Brazil and  India , the top producers, boost crop
area,  Jonathan Kingsman , managing director of the Switzerland-
based broker and researcher, said in a telephone interview.  A drop in prices in 2011, the first annual decline in four
years, may help ease global food costs which climbed to a record
in January according to the  United Nations ’ World Food Price
Index. Sugar has more than doubled since the end of May on
concern that global supplies will trail demand after crop damage
from a storm in  Australia  and drought in Russia cut output.  “If the weather is normal, we would expect a slow erosion
in values for the rest of the calendar year as the risk premium
diminishes,” said Kingsman, who’s traded sugar for more than
three decades. “We are less bullish because we have marked down
import demand.”  The October-delivery contract may fall to 20 cents a pound
on ICE Futures U.S. this year, Kingsman said before a three-day
conference in Dubai starting Feb. 20. That contract lost as much
as 2.4 percent to 24.48 cents in after-hours trading today.  Wheat Shortage  A surplus in the global sugar market may stand in contrast
to deficits in other crops, including wheat, which have helped
to push up prices and contributed to political instability in
nations in North Africa and the Middle East. Global wheat output
may be 645.4 million metric tons this season, while demand will
be 665.2 million, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  has said.  Corn is trading near the highest since July 2008, prices of
soybeans have jumped 46 percent in the past year and  palm oil 
has advanced 41 percent in the past six months.  Sugar production from  Thailand , the second-largest shipper,
may jump to a record 7.7 million to 7.8 million tons this year
as wetter-than-average weather improves yield, potentially
raising exports, Prasert Tapaneeyangkul, secretary-general at
the Office of the Cane & Sugar Board said in an interview.  Kingsman in December predicted a deficit of 375,000 tons
for the current year ending March. The brokerage will announce a
final estimate, which will factor in weather disruptions in
Australia and  Russia , at the Dubai event. Its first estimate for
2011-2012 will also be released, he said.  The shortage will be exacerbated this year as cold weather
in China and floods in Australia cut harvests, Kingsman said
last week. The world may lose about 9 million tons of sugar in
the year ending March 31 because of inclement weather, he said.  Cyclone Damage  Tropical Cyclone Yasi hit northern Queensland in Australia,
a region growing a third of the country’s cane, cutting output
potential in the area by about 50 percent, producers’ group
 Canegrowers  said Feb. 4. That may keep exports from the world’s
third-biggest supplier at a two-decade low of 2.2 million tons
in 2010, according to Queensland Sugar Ltd.  Frost damaged about 1.9 million mu (126,667 hectares) of
cane in China’s Guangxi province, the  China  News Service said on
Jan. 12, citing the local agricultural authority. The nation’s
central bank today raised  reserve requirements  for lenders for
the second time this year to counter inflation.  “The market is already nervous and prices contain, what we
call, a risk premium in it in case the weather is abnormal for
another year,” Kingsman said.  Sugar for delivery from May 2011 through October 2013 is in
backwardation, reflecting expectations that prices may ease in
the coming months, he said. Backwardation occurs when near-term
contracts are more expensive than those further out.  ‘Delay Purchases’  “The  spot market  is in considerable premium to forward
months and that is encouraging people to delay purchases and
rebuild stocks,” he said, echoing a view from Cyrus Raja,
general manager at Dubai-based Al Khaleej Sugar Co., the biggest
sugar refiner, on Feb. 15.  “Many of the destination buyers are waiting in the hope
that prices will come off” with the Brazilian harvest, Raja
said in an e-mail. “The physical off-take is still slow.”  Raw sugar soared to 36.08 cents per pound on Feb. 2, the
highest level since 1980. Prices can jump “much higher” if
there’s more bad weather as stockpiles are low, Kingsman said. A
drop below 20 cents is unlikely as prices below that level will
prompt Brazilian mills to switch to making ethanol, he said.  Ethanol Prices  Output from  Brazil ’s Center South, the largest producing
region, may exceed 34 million tons next season as cane output
climbs to 575 million tons, Kingsman said.  “We would expect the Brazilian industry to maximize sugar
production and minimize ethanol production because prices are
much higher than ethanol prices,” he said. “Whatever they can
do, they will try to maximize sugar production.”  India may produce about 25.3 million tons this season, said
Kingsman, adding that the estimate will be revised after more
clarity emerges on the yield of the cane planted in  Uttar
Pradesh , the nation’s biggest grower, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  