-- 
Goldman May Repay Buffett, Buy Back 10% of Shares, Schorr Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-02-18T18:16:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/goldman-sachs-may-repay-buffett-buy-back-10-of-common-stock-nomura-says.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . will likely
repay the $5 billion investment from Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc . and may buy back as many as 10 percent of its
outstanding shares over the next two years, according to Glenn Schorr, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  Repurchasing the preferred shares from Berkshire would
increase annual earnings per share at the New York-based firm by
about 85 cents, Schorr said today in a note to investors. A
5 percent reduction in shares outstanding would add about
$1 a share to earnings, he wrote.  Goldman Sachs is awaiting results of a  stress test  that the  Federal Reserve  is using to determine whether the largest U.S.
banks can begin returning capital to shareholders through
dividends and share repurchases. The firm has an estimated
Tier 1 common ratio of about 8 percent under the so-called Basel
III capital rules, Schorr wrote.  “We think Goldman will be part of the small group of U.S.
banks allowed to return capital at the end of 1Q11 and we
believe the firm is clearly able to effectively manage its
capital base given its strong starting point,” Schorr wrote.
“Goldman’s shares outstanding could be reduced by 10 percent
over the next two years (and we may be on the conservative
side).” That would boost earnings per share and returns on
equity, he wrote.  Goldman Sachs is likely to invest in its emerging markets
businesses and technology improvements before returning capital
to shareholders, Schorr wrote.  Capital Impact  The repayment could reduce the firm’s tier 1 common equity
ratio by about 0.4 percentage points and reduce book value by
about $3 a share, Schorr wrote. Those effects would likely be
offset by the first-quarter earnings, he wrote.    David Wells , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment. The bank is considering repaying the Berkshire
investment, needing approval from the Federal Reserve to do so,
a person familiar with the plans said in October.  Goldman Sachs turned to Buffett, the second-richest
American and a cult figure in the investing world, to shore up
the investment bank’s capital and restore market confidence
after its stock tumbled and borrowing costs spiked following the
Sept. 15, 2008, collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. News
of Berkshire’s investment also helped Goldman Sachs raise
$5.75 billion from a stock offering a day later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  