-- 
Green Mountain Commands Most Expensive U.S. Valuation: Real M&A

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   T s a n g
-- 
2011-02-18T04:18:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/green-mountain-buyer-would-have-to-pay-most-expensive-valuation-real-m-a.html
And you think Starbucks is
expensive?    Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc . has been growing so
fast that acquirers looking to scoop up the largest U.S. seller
of single-serve brewers would pay the highest valuation in
America. The shares, which surged to a record this week on
speculation of a partnership with  Starbucks Corp ., trade at 295
times cash flow, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
more than any company in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index. By
sales, Green Mountain is costlier than eight of 10 U.S. stocks.  Chief Executive Officer Lawrence Blanford has used the
Keurig business to almost quadruple Green Mountain’s revenue in
the past three years, helping the company’s market value balloon
more than sevenfold to $5.8 billion. While its 80 percent share
of the U.S. single-cup coffee market makes Green Mountain a
target for  Coca-Cola Co . and  Nestle SA , according to Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC, it will still have to contend with
Starbucks. CEO  Howard Schultz  said yesterday the world’s largest
coffee-shop operator intends to compete directly for sales.  “People just can’t seem to drink enough coffee,” said  John Carey , a Boston-based money manager at Pioneer Investments,
which oversees about $250 billion. “The market does get carried
away sometimes with higher  growth stocks . If the acquirer sees
more earnings power than is being reflected in the current
earnings, the buyer might have in mind a much lower multiple.”  ‘Long-Term Winners’  Starbucks’ Schultz, 57, said in an internal memo yesterday
that there are “no demonstrated, long-term winners” yet in the
single-cup industry. Seattle-based Starbucks “has a fantastic
opportunity to introduce and deliver new single-serve coffee
innovations to our customers,” he said.  The comments sent Waterbury, Vermont-based  Green Mountain 
down 7.7 percent, the biggest decline in two months, to $40.71.  “We do believe in the increasing strength of the single-
serving category and the power of the Keurig brand,” Suzanne DuLong, a Green Mountain spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview. She declined to comment about potential partnerships.  Lara Wyss, a spokeswoman for Starbucks, did not return a
call seeking comment.  Green Mountain is still valued at 295 times its cash flow
of 13.8 cents a share in the past 12 months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. No non-financial company in either the S&P 500
or the S&P Midcap 400 Index trades at a higher level. The median
multiple for all companies in the Midcap 400, the stock gauge
that includes Green Mountain, stands at 12.2 times.  Relative Value  While revenue increased by 73 percent last fiscal year,
Green Mountain had a higher valuation relative to sales than at
least 80 percent of U.S. companies, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Green Mountain is also more expensive than the 13
companies in the  S&P 500  and Midcap 400 that had faster sales
growth than the coffee merchant, the data show.  “The company has maxed out in terms of growth,” said
Keith Springer, president of  Sacramento , California-based
Springer Financial Advisors, which manages about $100 million.
“Now it needs a big brother to come in.”  Mitchell Pinheiro, an analyst at Janney Montgomery in
Philadelphia, says Green Mountain is worth even more and that
Coca-Cola of Atlanta and Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle are
companies that have the wherewithal to acquire it.  Financial Ratios  Coca-Cola is rated A2, the third-highest investment grade
level, according to Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings. The
model analyzes borrowers based on their indebtedness, market
capitalization, stock volatility, profitability and other
financial ratios.  Ben Deutsch, a spokesman for Coca-Cola, declined to
comment. Roddy Child-Villiers, head of  investor relations  at
Nestle, did not immediately return a call and e-mail outside
normal business hours.  Pinheiro, who recommends buying Green Mountain, valued the
coffee company at about $9 billion, or 56 percent more than its
current market capitalization. At the level, a takeover would
cost 47 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s more than three times the median multiple of 13.2
for takeovers of food and beverage companies of at least $1
billion during the past five years, the data show. Using Green
Mountain’s fiscal 2011 estimated Ebitda would still make an
acquisition almost twice as expensive as the industry median.  Expiring Patents  With Starbucks’ Schultz damping speculation that it may
partner with Green Mountain, the company also faces the prospect
of increasing competition as patents on the Keurig K-Cup system
are set to expire next year. Starbucks will win amid the change
and innovation in the $4 billion single-serve market, the
fastest growing in the global coffee industry, Schultz said.  Options traders are making more bearish bets against Green
Mountain. The ratio of outstanding puts to sell shares versus
calls to buy has climbed 36 percent this year to 1.22, the
highest level since March, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Put open interest has risen 83 percent to 154,002 since
January options expired four weeks ago, more than twice as fast
as the increase in calls, which rose 31 percent to 126,237.  Green Mountain spent $10.5 million more in cash on its
operations than it brought in last year, even as it reported a
46 percent jump in net income to $79.5 million. The discrepancy
was a result of a buildup in inventories and revenue booked for
sales for which it had yet to receive payments, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  K-Cup Royalties  The company had to restate earnings back to 2007 in part
because of incorrect costs for K-Cup coffee pods and changes to
the recognition of K-Cup royalties, Green Mountain said in a
statement in November. The  adjustment  followed an investigation
initiated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in
September into how the company recognizes revenue.  The coffee merchant said in a Feb. 3 regulatory  filing  that
it continues to cooperate fully with the SEC.  Green Mountain had $33 million in cash on hand as of Dec.
25, 2010, and about $1.1 billion in debt, Bloomberg data show.  The loans were used to finance Green Mountain’s purchase of
Van Houtte Inc. to gain control of the largest coffee services
network in  North America . Buying Montreal-based Van Houtte will
help expand Green Mountain’s Keurig business in  Canada , Blanford
said when the deal was announced in September.  Green Mountain is rated B3, the second-lowest investment
grade level, according to Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings.
Moody’s Investors Service ranks the company three levels below
investment grade, and Standard & Poor’s rates it five below.  Kitchen Appliances  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions, Groupe  SEB SA , the
world’s largest maker of countertop kitchen appliances, agreed
to raise its stake in Hangzhou, China-based Zhejiang Supor
Cookware Co. to 71.31 percent from 51.31 percent for 3.46
billion yuan ($526 million).  SEB, based in Ecully,  France , agreed to buy the additional
20 percent stake from Supor’s founding shareholders, according
to a statement.  There have been 3,119 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $279.2 billion, a 31 percent increase from the $213.4
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Leslie Patton  in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;  Michael Tsang  in  New York  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 