-- 
Miami Cited for Improper Accounting of $20.5 Million in Audit

-- B y   J e r r y   H a r t
-- 
2011-02-18T15:46:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/miami-cited-for-improper-accounting-of-20-5-million-in-audit.html
Miami, under U.S. scrutiny for
disclosure in bond-sale documents, misused $20.5 million of
restricted public-works money to overstate its general fund in
fiscal 2009 and 2010, an audit found.  The money, meant for water and sewer work, was used for
other city services and inflated the general fund’s balance by
about $7 million in the two years, said Victor Igwe, the city’s
independent auditor general.  “The commingling of these restricted funds with
unrestricted general-fund monies appears to indicate a lack of
financial-reporting controls,” Igwe said in his audit, released
yesterday.  Miami’s credit rating was cut last year by  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service because of recurring budget
deficits and growing pension costs. The city declared a
“financial urgency” under state law in April and imposed $76.9
million of salary, health-insurance and pension cuts on unions
to help balance its $514 million budget for fiscal 2011, which
ends Sept. 30.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is looking into
whether the city properly disclosed budget gaps during bond
sales in 2007 and 2009. The probe began after an audit by Igwe
found the city didn’t comply with its budgeting procedures in
fiscal 2008.  Miami has put the water and sewer money it receives from
the county into its general fund since fiscal 2003, Diana Gomez,
the city’s finance director, said in a statement. Her department
will discuss setting up a special account for the funds, she
said.  Moody’s lowered Miami’s general-obligation rating one level
in July to A1, its fifth-highest rank. S&P reduced the city in
June by two levels to A-, its seventh-highest. Both cited the
depletion of Miami’s reserves to balance budgets, pension
obligations that will exceed 20 percent of future budgets and
declining tax revenue after a 13 percent plunge in local
property values last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jerry Hart in Miami at   jhart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 