-- 
Libyans Demonstrate Against Qaddafi for Third Day as Tensions, Deaths Rise

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-18T16:37:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/libyans-demonstrate-against-qaddafi-for-third-day-as-tensions-deaths-rise.html
Libyans demonstrated for a third day
against the four-decade rule of  Muammar Qaddafi  as the deaths of
protesters in clashes with security forces and regime supporters
heighten tension in the North African oil-producing nation.  Thousands of people rallied after prayers in the eastern
city of Benghazi, Libya’s second-largest, according news
agencies such as the British Broadcasting Corp. and opposition
websites including the National Frontier for the Salvation of
Libya. The office of internal security forces was set ablaze and
a young girl was shot dead in the same city, the groups said.  Activists called for the protests after violence erupted
during “Day of Anger” marches yesterday. Human Rights Watch
said in a statement yesterday that at least 24 people have died
since unrest began late Feb. 15, and that most of those deaths
were in Benghazi, and Baida, the third-biggest city, also in the
east.  Al-Jazeera   said  as many as 50 people may have been killed.  “The security forces’ vicious attacks on peaceful
demonstrators lay bare the reality of Qaddafi’s brutality when
faced with any internal dissent,” Sarah Leah Whitson, Middle
East and North Africa director at Human Rights Watch, said in
the statement. “Libyans should not have to risk their lives to
make a stand for their rights as human beings.”  Inspired by uprisings that toppled the presidents of
Tunisia and  Egypt  and have broken out in other countries in the
region,  Libyan activists  used the Internet, including social
media, to organize the anti-government rallies.  Grievances  Among the protesters’ initial grievances were Libya’s ban
on political parties and lack of a constitution, said Karin
Maree, a Libya analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit in  London . Many have also started calling for regime change, she
said. Libya’s political system is based on Qaddafi’s “ Green
Book ,” which combines socialist and Islamic theories and
rejects parliamentary democracy and political parties.  Oil rose to the highest level in a week in New York as the
escalating protests fueled concern over supplies from the
region. Crude for March delivery increased $1, or 1.2 percent,
to $87.36 a barrel at 9:34 a.m. on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange after touching $87.56.  Brent crude  for April settlement
rose as much as 0.9 percent, to $103.50 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London before settling at $101.47.
The contract has risen 53 cents this week, its fourth
consecutive increase.    Libya ’s General People’s Congress halted its session
indefinitely today without giving a reason, said Quryna, an
online newspaper that has ties to Qaddafi’s son Seif al-Islam.
Many state executives will be replaced as part of administrative
changes when the congress returns, it said, citing unidentified
people.  Press Restrictions  There is little independent reporting from Libya due to the
country’s tight press restrictions. The government-controlled
media said people were rallying in praise of Qaddafi, Africa’s
longest-serving leader, who has cracked down on his critics
since coming to power in a military coup in 1969.  At least 70 people have been injured in Baida since
protests began, half of whom are in critical condition due to
gunshot wounds, according to  Human Rights Watch .  The protests yesterday also took place in Zenten, Derna and
Ajdabiya, HRW said. The government had tried to prevent the
demonstrations by arresting key activists, it said.  The east, Benghazi in particular, has been more
economically deprived than other regions and “has traditionally
been the center of opposition to Qaddafi,” Maree said. “For
this to take off and gain significance it would have to spread
west and to Tripoli, the center of power.”  Qaddafi Supporters  Pro-government rallies have taken place in Tripoli and
Qaddafi has been meeting with tribal leaders to solicit their
support, Al Jazeera said.  The government dominates Libya’s economy through complete
control of oil resources, which account for about 95 percent of
export earnings. Libya holds the largest proven oil reserves in  Africa , with 44.3 billion barrels in 2009, the BP Statistical
Review of World Energy shows.  While the economy grew by about 10 percent last year, on
increased oil production, unemployment remains high, especially
among the young, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “Economics has been part of the grievances,” Scott Lucas,
a professor of American studies at the University of Birmingham
in  England  and founder of EA WorldView, a website on  U.S.
foreign policy  and international affairs, said by telephone.
“But the real issue that cuts across these protests, is local
people’s demands for political representation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 