-- 
Libyan Opposition Calls for Rallies as Protester Deaths Heighten Tension

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-18T13:17:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/libyan-opposition-calls-for-rallies-as-protester-deaths-heighten-tension.html
Libyan opposition groups called for
more demonstrations against the four-decade rule of  Muammar Qaddafi  as the deaths of protesters in clashes with security
forces and regime supporters heighten tension in the oil-
producing North African nation.  Violence erupted during “Day of Anger” marches yesterday
in five eastern cities,  Human Rights Watch  said yesterday in a
 statement . Since the protests began Feb. 16, 24 people have
died, most in the second-largest city, Benghazi, and Baida, the
third-largest, HRW said. Small groups set fires in the streets
of the capital, Tripoli, and the office of internal security was
set on fire in Benghazi, the BBC reported today.  “The security forces’ vicious attacks on peaceful
demonstrators lay bare the reality of Qaddafi’s brutality when
faced with any internal dissent,” Sarah Leah Whitson, Middle
East and North  Africa  director at Human Rights Watch, said in
the statement. “Libyans should not have to risk their lives to
make a stand for their rights as human beings.”  Inspired by uprisings that toppled the presidents of
Tunisia and  Egypt  and have erupted in other countries in the
region,  Libyan activists  used the Internet, including social
media, to organize the anti-government rallies. A group called
Fight for Your Freedom used the Facebook website to call for
demonstrations today after Muslim worshippers leave Friday
prayers, saying, “We won’t bury our heads in the sand.”  Among the protesters’ grievances are Libya’s ban on
political parties and lack of a constitution, said Karin Maree,
a  Libya  analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit.  Press Restrictions  There is little independent reporting from Libya due to the
country’s tight press restrictions. The government-controlled
media said people were rallying in praise of Qaddafi, Africa’s
longest-serving leader, who has cracked down on his critics
since coming to power in a military coup in 1969.  In videos posted on the Internet, demonstrators were shown
burning photographs of Qaddafi in unidentified cities and
chanting slogans similar to those used by protesters in Egypt,
such as “the people want the regime to fall.”  In addition to the deaths, at least 70 people were injured
in Baida, half of whom are in critical condition due to gunshot
wounds, according to HRW.  The protests yesterday also took place in Zenten, Derna,
and Ajdabiya, the group said. The east, Benghazi in particular,
has been more economically deprived than other regions and “has
traditionally been the center of opposition to Qaddafi,” Maree
said. “For this to take off and gain significance it would have
to spread west and to Tripoli, the center of power.”  Judges, Lawyers  Judges and lawyers were the first to stage protests,
calling for an independent judiciary and a constitution, the BBC
said. The government’s harsh response caused more people to take
to the streets, with further demands, including regime change,
the  BBC  said.  Libya holds the largest proven oil reserves in Africa, with
44.3 billion barrels in 2009, the BP Statistical Review of World
Energy shows.  While the economy expanded by about 10 percent last year,
reflecting increased oil production, unemployment has remained
high, especially among the young, the  International Monetary
Fund  said.  “Although economics has been part of the grievances, the
real issue that cuts across these protests, is about local
people’s demands for political representation,” Scott Lucas,
professor of American Studies at the University of Birmingham in  England , said of the regional unrest. Lucas, founder of EA
WorldView, a website on  U.S. foreign policy  and international
affairs, spoke today in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 