-- 
Time Inc. CEO Griffin Exits After Six-Month Stint

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-02-18T21:40:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/time-inc-chief-executive-officer-jack-griffin-to-leave-after-six-months.html
Time Inc. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Jack Griffin is leaving his post, departing
the magazine publisher six months after being named to the job.  The management change was announced in a memo yesterday to
Time Inc. employees by  Jeff Bewkes , CEO of  Time Warner Inc ., the
New York-based parent company. The magazine division will be led
by an interim management committee until a permanent successor
is identified, Bewkes said.  Griffin was named chairman and CEO of the unit in August,
replacing  Ann Moore , who retired after 32 years with the
company. His sudden departure underscores how difficult it can
be for newcomers to shake up Time, an editorial organization
imbued with tradition, said Ken Doctor, a  media analyst  at
Outsell Inc. in  Santa Cruz ,  California .  “Time Inc. has a very strong culture and doesn’t
particularly like outsiders,” Doctor said. “Part of what’s
going on here, rightfully or wrongfully, is that the body
rejected the transplant.”  In his memo to employees, Bewkes said Griffin didn’t fit
in with the company.  “Although Jack is an extremely accomplished executive, I
concluded that his leadership style and approach did not mesh
with Time Inc. and Time Warner,” Bewkes said.  Griffin Disputes  Griffin issued a statement today, disputing Bewkes’s
characterization of his departure.  “I was recruited and hired by Time Warner to lead the
business transformation of Time Inc., based on my clear record of
success and results in the industry,” said Griffin in the
statement. “This continued at Time Inc., with the consistent and
documented acclaim of Time Warner’s senior management. Every action
I took over the past six months was made with that ultimate goal in
mind. My exit was clearly not about management style or results.”  Andrei Bogolubov, a spokesman for Griffin, said he would
not have additional comment.  During his stint at  Time , Griffin helped create a new
executive role, chief digital officer, that would develop a
center for digital innovation within the company. He also formed
a separate news division, putting Fortune, Money and Time
magazines under a different management staff.  “It’s a nightmare scenario where you bring in somebody
from the outside, they make massive changes, they put their own
people in charge, and then they’re out the door,” Doctor said.  Griffin  worked  at Meredith Corp., the publisher of Better
Homes and Gardens and other magazines, between 1994 and 1999,
and then again starting in 2003. He also has served at Parade,
owned by Advance Publications, and the New York Times Co.’s
magazine group.  Time Warner, which owns  HBO  and Warner Bros. studios, rose
50 cents to $38.18 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have gained 18.7 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  