-- 
Indonesian Rupiah Gains for Fifth Straight Week on Fund Inflows

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-02-18T10:02:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/indonesian-rupiah-gains-for-fifth-straight-week-on-fund-inflows.html
  Indonesia ’s rupiah gained for a
fifth straight week, its longest winning streak since October
2009, after overseas investors pumped funds into the nation’s
stocks to take advantage of the growth outlook. Bonds rose.  The currency reached a 3 1/2-year high after global funds
bought $212 million more Indonesian equities than they sold this
week through yesterday, according to exchange data. Gross
domestic product may expand 6.5 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, Bambang Permadi Brodjonegoro, head of
fiscal policy at the  finance ministry , said in Jakarta yesterday.
Consumer prices in January rose at the fastest pace since April
2009.  “We saw flows into the equity market, helping sentiment,”
said Bambang Eko Joewono, head of the global-markets division at
PT Bank UOB Buana in Jakarta. “By letting the rupiah appreciate  Bank Indonesia  is trying to combat inflation, which is a big
problem.”  The rupiah strengthened 1 percent for the week to 8,855 as
of 4:42 p.m. in Jakarta today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It rose 0.2 percent today and touched 8,846 earlier,
the strongest level since June 2007. The rupiah has rallied 1.4
percent this year, the top performance among  Asia ’s 10 most-
traded currencies.  Indonesia’s economy expanded 6.9 percent in the three
months through December from a year earlier, the most since the
quarter ended December 2004, the statistics bureau said Feb. 7.  ‘Control Inflation’  Consumer prices in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy rose
7.02 percent last month from a year earlier, after a 6.96
percent gain reported for December, Central Bureau of Statistics
data showed.  Indonesia may succeed in controlling inflation as it
increases the supply of rice and raises  interest rates  amid a
strong rupiah, the senior International Monetary Fund resident
representative for the country said.  “The government and Bank Indonesia are taking a whole
arsenal of measures to try and deal with inflation,” Milan Zavadjil said in a Bloomberg Television interview today. “If
they persist with this multi-pronged approach, I think they have
a good chance of achieving the target.”  Ten-year  government bonds  gained this week. The yield on
the 8.25 percent note due July 2021 dropped 21 basis points this
week to 8.8 percent, according to closing prices from the Inter-
Dealer Market Association. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  