-- 
Lippmann’s LibreMax Beats Peers With Bets on ‘Toxic’ Mortgages

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-02-18T05:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/lippmann-s-libremax-beats-peers-with-bets-on-toxic-mortgages.html
LibreMax Capital LLC, co-founded by
former  Deutsche Bank AG  trader Greg Lippmann, beat rivals last
month with wagers on mortgage securities, including those backed
by loans called “toxic” by a government commission.  LibreMax Partners LP gained 2.29 percent in January and has
increased 6.55 percent since its inception in October, according
to a monthly performance report to investors obtained by
Bloomberg News. The gain for January was the fund’s biggest
since its start, the report said.  Hedge funds  that focus on
asset-backed securities globally climbed 1.97 percent in
January, Bloomberg data show.  Lippmann, 42, who gained fame for his bets at Deutsche Bank
against subprime mortgage securities before the housing market
collapsed, is now profiting by buying subprime mortgage bonds
that were created before housing prices peaked. Investments in
option adjustable-rate mortgages, which allow borrowers to pay
less interest than they owe by increasing principal, produced
the biggest gains last month, the  fund manager  told investors.  “We believe securitized products are fundamentally cheap
to broader markets,” Lippmann wrote in a letter discussing the
fund’s fourth-quarter performance, also obtained by Bloomberg.
Compared with high-yield corporate debt, “generally these bonds
are 200 or more basis points higher in yield at our
assumptions,” he said, adding that investments are made
assuming housing prices drop 10 percent from current levels and
that as many as twice the number of borrowers default as are
currently delinquent.  ‘Substantial Upside’  “To the extent that unemployment begins to decline or that  home prices  stabilize, there could be substantial upside beyond
the expected return on our investments,” Lippmann, 42, wrote.  The trader left Deutsche Bank last year to start LibreMax
with Fred Brettschneider, the German bank’s former head of
global markets in the Americas. The firm has more than $500
million under management.  Lippmann’s team made almost $2 billion for Deutsche Bank in
2007 wagering against subprime debt through credit-default swaps
as homeowner delinquencies soared, according to “The Greatest
Trade Ever” (Broadway Books, 2009) by Greg Zuckerman.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for LibreMax in New York,
declined to comment.  Option ARMs  LibreMax had its biggest gains in January from senior
securities backed by option adjustable-rate mortgages. The
securities jumped about 6 cents to 64 cents on the dollar last
month, according to  Barclays Capital .  The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission said the loans,
which for some borrowers can more than double payments as
interest is deferred and principal increased, were among the
“toxic” debt at the center of the “corrosion of mortgage-lending
standards.”  While the fund isn’t selling the securities after “a
dramatic rally,” Lippmann wrote, it likely would only add to
its holdings if prices dropped.  Gains on the mortgage debt were reduced by hedges the fund
has bought against declines in high-yield bond and equity
markets, according to the letter on January’s performance.  LibreMax’s biggest bet is on bonds backed by subprime
loans, those made to borrowers with the worst credit, that were
created in the first half of 2005 and earlier, before the peak
in housing prices, according to the quarterly letter. The loans
from that period typically have lower combined loan-to-value
ratios that reduce the severity of losses and other risks that
can diminish the value of the bonds while also increasing the
borrowers’ incentives to pay, Lippmann said.  “These securitizations have consistently shown superior
collateral performance versus those issued in the second half of
2005 and later,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in  New York  at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Pierre Paulden at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  