-- 
Egypt Will Allow Iran to Send Two Naval Ships Through Suez on Way to Syria

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-02-18T21:29:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/iran-seeks-clearance-for-warships-to-use-suez-canal-egypt-official-says.html
  Egypt  yesterday approved a request
by Iran to send two warships through the  Suez Canal  on their way
to Syria, a move that has ratcheted up Middle East tensions and
driven  oil prices  higher.  The decision was reported by Egypt’s state television
network and confirmed by an Egyptian military official who would
not be identified in line with policy. Iran’s request to use the
waterway specified that the vessels don’t hold nuclear or
chemical materials, and aren’t carrying or delivering weapons,
the official said.  The ships will go to Syria, where they will anchor “for a
few days” after a trip through the canal that is “routine
according to international law,”  Iran ’s state-run Islamic
Republic News Agency said, citing the country’s ambassador to
Syria, Ahmad Mousavi.  Suez Canal officials didn’t have details on the ships’
arrival date. Crude oil rose to the highest level in a week in
New York as anti-government demonstrations continued in Yemen,
Bahrain and Libya, heightening concerns that instability in the
Arab world will affect energy supplies.  Crude for March delivery settled at $86.20 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Earlier, it touched $87.88.
Futures gained 0.7 percent this week. The more active April
contract increased 87 cents to $89.71 a barrel.  ‘Responsible Behavior’  U.S. financial markets will be closed Feb. 21 for the
Presidents' Day holiday.  The U.S. is “monitoring” Iran’s plan to send warships
through the Suez Canal, White House press secretary Jay Carney
said yesterday. Iran doesn’t show “responsible behavior in the
region, which is always a concern to us,” Carney told reporters
traveling on Air Force One to an appearance by President Barack Obama outside Portland, Oregon.  The 120-mile (190-kilometer) Suez Canal carries about 2.5
percent of world oil output, according to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., and is a key route for ships carrying Asian  consumer goods 
to  Europe .  The ships are a British-built, 1960s-era Mk-5 frigate and a
supply vessel, according to  Israel ’s Yedioth Ahronot newspaper.  The passage of the Iranian vessels would be a
“provocation” to Israel, Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  said this week. He said Israel would not “ignore
forever” such acts.  Iranian Dissent  After the Egyptian approval for the ships’ passage, Israeli
Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor said by telephone that
he had nothing to add to what Lieberman had said on the issue.  Iran hasn’t sent warships through the canal in “many
years,” Lieberman said.  Iran has accused the U.S. and Israel of stoking domestic
dissent, which has revived in the past week under the influence
of Arab revolts, and rejects international sanctions against its
nuclear program.  Officials in Iran have said discussions of Israel’s nuclear
development should be part of any talks on its own atomic work.
Israel hasn’t confirmed or denied possession of nuclear weapons.  Israel and the U.S. suspect that  Iran’s nuclear program  is
aimed at producing weapons. Iran says it is for generating
power. The United Nations has imposed four rounds of sanctions
on Iran over its nuclear development.  The Islamic nation deployed security forces to put down a
Feb. 14 rally by opposition groups that was the biggest since
the re-election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in June 2009
prompted mass rallies claiming the vote was fixed.  Opposition leader  Mir Hossein Mousavi  could not be reached
and may have been detained, the  New York  Times reported
yesterday, citing comments the leader’s daughters made to an
opposition Web site.  The daughters said that both parents have been unable to be
reached since Feb. 15 and that their home has been surrounded by
security forces, according to the report.  Demonstrations Planned  Nationwide demonstrations are planned for Feb. 20 to mourn
those killed in this week’s protests, according to the Web site
of Mousavi, who ran against Ahmadinejad in 2009 and led protests
after the vote.  Opposition groups liken Iran’s regime to those of ousted
Arab autocrats such as Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak . Iranian state-run
Press TV said two people were killed in this week’s unrest.  Mousavi, the Iranian diplomat, accused the Israelis of
“perverting the truth,” calling passage through the Suez
“routine” and part of Iran’s strategic relationship with  Syria .  “The Israeli side is interpreting international law
according to its own interests and is perverting the truth,”
IRNA quoted him as saying.  According to international law, Egypt cannot forbid any
vessel from passing through the canal unless that country is at
war with Egypt, Ahmed El-Manakhly, transit director at the Suez
Canal Authority, told Bloomberg Television Feb. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;  Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 