-- 
Ireland Blyth of Mauritius Sees 17% Climb in Revenue on Seafood, CEO Says

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-02-18T11:12:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/ireland-blyth-of-mauritius-sees-17-climb-in-revenue-on-seafood-ceo-says.html
  Ireland Blyth Ltd ., Mauritius’s
second-largest diversified company, expects revenue to climb by
17 percent this year, Chief Executive Officer Nicolas Maigrot
said.  Revenue will probably expand to more than 16 billion rupees
($540 million) in the financial year through June from 13.7
billion rupees on higher sales from its seafood division,
Maigrot said in an interview yesterday in  Port Louis , the
capital. Profit is estimated to increase by about 5 percent.  “We estimate revenue to exceed the 16 billion rupee mark
for the first time by the end of June, even though we are now in
the much quieter half of our financial year,” he said. “Our
seafood sector, in which we invested some 3 billion rupees, is
growing. It is yet to reach its full potential.”  Ireland Blyth operates the 16-supermarket Winner’s chain,
and transports, cleans and freezes tuna through its seafood
units. The company also has interests in airline services,
warehousing and construction, and owns 80 percent of Mauritius
Eagle Insurance Co., according to its website.  Maigrot divided IBL into seven units after taking over as
chief executive officer on Jan. 1 to refocus on “each core
activity,” he said.  Revenue from its seafood unit, which processes and packages
tuna before shipping it to Europe and Japan, jumped 41 percent
in the first half through December to 2 billion rupees compared
with a year earlier, the company said on Feb. 8.  Ireland Blyth plans to expand outside of Mauritius and is
seeking opportunities in  India , Maigrot said.  The stock advanced 0.5 rupees, or 0.7 percent, to 76.50
rupees, the highest in a week, by the 1:30 p.m. close in Port
Louis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  