-- 
Ivory Coast Banks Remain Closed After Seizure Attempt

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 
2011-02-18T12:55:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/ivory-coast-s-main-bank-offices-remain-closed-after-gbagbo-seizure-attempt.html
The  Ivory Coast  units of at least
six banks including Societe Generale SA and  BNP Paribas  SA
remained closed today, even after President Laurent Gbagbo
seized the lenders to ensure they continue operating.  The head offices of Societe Generale’s SGBCI,  Standard
Chartered Plc ’s local unit, Paribas’s BICICI, Citigroup’s
subsidiary and West African lenders  BIAO-Cote d’Ivoire  and
 Banque Atlantique  were all shuttered in Abidjan, the commercial
capital. Nigeria’s Access Bank Plc said it a statement today
that it has also suspended operations in Ivory Coast.  The banks closed this week citing security concerns
following a disputed Nov. 28 election that left the country with
two rival administrations. Alassane Ouattara is internationally
recognized as the winner of the vote, while Gbagbo refuses to
cede power, alleging fraud in the parts of the north.  The closure of the banks shows the “willingness of the
international community to suffocate Ivory Coast,” Gnonzie
Ouattara, minister of communications in Gbagbo’s administration,
told reporters today in Abidjan. “These measures are political,
not economic.”  Jeffrey French, a London-based spokesman for Citigroup,  Laura Schalk , a spokeswoman for  Societe Generale  in Paris, and
Ilias Catsaros, a spokesman for Paris-based BNP Paribas, all
declined to comment in e-mails today. Shaun Gamble, a spokesman
for  Standard Chartered  in London, reiterated yesterday’s
statement, citing the “challenging operating environment” for
the closure.  Gbagbo ordered the seizure of some of the lenders to
“preserve jobs and make sure the Ivorians and the economic
actors have access to their assets,” Ahoua Don Mello, Gbagbo’s
spokesman, said on state-owned television yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier and Baudelaire Mieu in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 