-- 
J&J Withdraws Simponi in Germany Amid Mounting Product Recalls

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-02-18T15:00:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/j-j-withdraws-simponi-in-germany-amid-mounting-product-recalls.html
  Johnson & Johnson  recalled batches
of its Simponi arthritis treatment in  Germany  and withheld
shipments that will cause shortages in  Europe , adding to
glitches that cost the company more than $900 million last year.  The recall is the fourth in recent weeks for the  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based company. A defect discovered in some
self-injectable  Simponi pens  prevented the full dose from being
delivered, the European Medicines Agency said in a statement
today. While production of new pens will start by the end of the
month, shortages in some European countries will last until May.
Until then, patients can switch to pre-filled syringes or
competing treatments, the agency said.  J&J in recent weeks has pulled from the market cracked
syringes of its Invega Sustenna for schizophrenia; Secure Strap
hernia devices with faulty packaging; and discolored vials of
Dermabond wound treatments. The company retracted 40 consumer
products last year, in addition to contact lenses and artificial
hips. The withdrawals, led by Tylenol and Motrin pain pills,
reduced sales by $900 million.  “I don’t think you can ever say you’ve seen the last of
recalls,” William Weldon, J&J’s chief executive officer, said
in an interview yesterday with the CNBC financial news network.
“What we feel really good about is that we’re coming into 2011
in much better shape than we came out of 2010.”  J&J rose 14 cents to $60.93 at 9:47 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock had declined 5.8 percent
in the 12 months before today.  William Price, a spokesman for J&J, didn’t have an
immediate comment on the Simponi recalls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Randall in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  