-- 
Japan Ends Annual Whale Hunt in Antarctica After Clashes With Protesters

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-02-18T08:29:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/japan-abandons-whaling-hunt-following-clashes-with-sea-shepherd-nhk-says.html
Japan abandoned its whale hunt for
the first time in four years, saying clashes between its fleet
and protesters in boats in the Southern Ocean had threatened the
lives of the whalers.  The government made the decision “to secure the safety of
ships and their crew,” Agriculture Minister Michihiko Kano said
in a press briefing on NHK Television. Foreign Minister Seiji Maehara said the  Sea Shepherd Conservation Society  boats engaged
in “dangerous, unlawful acts” in blocking the whaling vessels.  Japan spends as much as $60 million a year on its whaling
programs and relies on official sales of meat from the Antarctic
hunt to fund 85 percent of the costs.  Australia  in May filed a
case against Japan in the  International Court of Justice 
claiming its whaling program is illegal, while New Zealand said
both sides violated international laws when a Sea Shepherd boat
sank last year during a skirmish with the whalers.  Sea Shepherd sent vessels to the area for the seventh year
this season and  said  earlier this week its 801-metric ton Bob
Barker vessel had trailed the  8,044-metric ton  Nisshin Maru ship
for 2,000 miles (3,220 kilometers) near the Southern Ocean. The
group claimed it had prevented hunting since Feb. 9.  Short of Quota  The whalers caught 170 minke whales out of a planned 850
and 2 fin whales from a planned 50,  Kyodo News  reported today.  “If they return next season, Sea Shepherd Conservation
Society will be ready to resume their efforts to obstruct and
disable illegal Japanese whaling operations,” the organization
said in a  statement  on its website today.  A powerboat skippered by Sea Shepherd activist Peter Bethune was sliced in two during a January 2010 collision with
the harpoon vessel Shonan Maru 2. Bethune, a New Zealander who
used the vessel for the  fastest powerboat  circumnavigation of
the world in  2008 , later boarded the Shonan Maru where he was
arrested, tried in Japan and given a suspended prison term.  Japan’s Institute of Cetacean Research, which conducts the
annual hunts,  accused  Sea Shepherd of “dangerous and violent
actions” in throwing “flash bang” grenades onto the Yushin
Maru No. 2 vessel on Jan. 9 as the activists attempted to jam
the whaling ships propeller with ropes. Sea Shepherd  denied  it
possesses the weapons while admitting to throwing smoke and
stink bombs during the incident.  2007 Fire  It’s the first time Japan has cut short its expedition
since 2007, when a fire on the Nisshin Maru killed one
crewmember and brought the fleet to a standstill for nine days.
The fire wasn’t a result of skirmishes with activists, the
whaling fleet operator  Kyodo Senpaku Kaisha  said at the time.  Japan conducts the hunts using a rule under a 1986
moratorium on commercial whaling that allows “lethal research”
on the mammals provided that meat from slaughtered whales, known
as research byproduct, is later consumed. The government says
the program is needed to prove the whale numbers have revived
sufficiently to allow commercial whaling.  Australia’s government has called Japan’s scientific
whaling “a charade” and former Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  promised a tougher stance on Japan’s annual whale
hunts when campaigning in the 2007 general election. The
government sued Japan, its second-largest trading partner, in
May in The Hague claiming the hunts violate the terms of the
International Whaling Commission’s moratorium on whaling.  ‘Positive Step’  “This is a positive step but the Government wants to see
an end to whaling, not just for a season, but for good,” Rudd,
now Foreign Minister, said in a joint statement with Environment
Minister Tony Burke today. Australia will continue to pursue its
case, the statement said.  Japan’s hunts take place in and around the Southern Ocean
Whale Sanctuary, an area designated by the International Whaling
Commission in 1994 to prevent commercial whaling. The 88-member
commission is divided between pro-whaling nations including
Japan,  Norway  and Iceland seeking a return to commercial whaling
and opponents including  New Zealand  and the European Union.  At the commission’s annual meeting in Agadir,  Morocco  in
June, delegates agreed a one-year “pause” on negotiations over
the moratorium, the  Associated Press  reported at the time. The
next meeting is scheduled for May in Tromso, Norway.  Critics including environmental group Greenpeace
International, argue the annual hunts are a waste of taxpayers’
money and take place for political rather than food supply
reasons. Japan had a stockpile of 4,455 metric tons of frozen
whale meat in December from previous expeditions, according to
the latest  official  data.  Maruha Group Inc., Kyokuyo Co. and Nippon Suisan Kaisha
Ltd., three of Japan’s largest fish companies, withdrew from the
whaling industry in 2006, citing commercial reasons, leaving it
in the hands of Japan’s government.  “Japan’s whaling serves no purpose whatsoever and the
fleet has no business in the Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary,”
Junichi Sato, executive director of Greenpeace Japan, said today
in an e-mail. “An early return of the whaling fleet is not
enough, Japan’s whaling ships should never leave port again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  