-- 
Japan's Topix Retreats for First Time in 10 Days; Insurers Lead Declines

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   K o t a r o   T s u n e t o m i
-- 
2011-02-18T06:42:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/japan-s-topix-declines-for-first-time-in-10-days-insurers-toyota-retreat.html
Japan’s Topix index fell for the
first time in 10 days on speculation stocks’ gains have
outpaced prospects for earnings and concern a rebellion among
lawmakers will derail plans to cut corporate tax rates.  Tokio Marine Holdings Inc., a casualty insurer, retreated 2
percent. Heiwa Real Estate Co., a property developer, tumbled
5.7 percent after the company announced a plan to sell shares.
Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s No. 1 carmaker, lost 0.6 percent.  The Topix index slid 0.1 percent to 973.60 with about eight
stocks retreating for every six that gained at the close in
Tokyo. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 0.1 percent to
10,842.80 after declining as much as 0.2 percent. For the week,
the Nikkei rose 2.2 percent while the Topix climbed 2.9 percent.  “People expected that a corporate  tax cut  would support
the stock market; if the law doesn’t pass, it will disappoint
foreign investors,” said Atsushi Inoue, chief investment
officer of Tokyo-based United Investments Co. “Market sentiment
is strong and some investors are looking for bargains.”  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  proposed in December lowering the
effective corporate tax rate by 5 percentage points this year,
and is calling for debate on raising the  consumption tax .
Sixteen ruling-party lawmakers yesterday vowed to oppose Kan’s
budget proposals.  The Topix has gained 8.3 percent this year, the most among
major Asia-Pacific indexes. That’s driven the average price of
stocks in the gauge to 16.5 times estimated earnings, the
highest level since July.  -- Editors: Jason Clenfield,  John McCluskey .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .
Kotaro Tsunetomi in Tokyo at 
 ktsunetomi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 