-- 
Jared Loughner Search Warrant Can't Be Unsealed Yet

-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-02-18T23:11:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/jared-loughner-search-warrant-can-t-be-unsealed-yet.html
The search warrant used to collect
evidence from the home of Jared Lee Loughner, the suspect in the
Jan. 8 shooting rampage in Tucson,  Arizona , can’t be unsealed
while a law enforcement investigation continues, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge Larry Burns said today he will probably
allow the warrant documents to be publicly released once the
probe is completed and a grand jury has decided whether
additional charges should be filed. Burns also said at a hearing
today in federal court in  San Diego  that he’s allowing the U.S.
Marshals Service to decide whether to release a mug shot of
Loughner taken after he was arrested for the shooting that left
6 people dead and 13 wounded.  Loughner, 22, is being held in federal custody in Arizona
after pleading not guilty to charges he tried to kill U.S.
Representative  Gabrielle Giffords  and two members of her staff
at a community meeting outside a Tucson supermarket. He hasn’t
been indicted on additional federal charges that he killed a
U.S. District Court judge who attended the meeting and another
member of Giffords’s staff.  Burns was appointed to the case after federal judges in
Arizona recused themselves. The request to unseal the search
warrant and to release Loughner’s federal mug shot was made by
media organizations and was opposed by both prosecutors and
Loughner’s lawyers.  Matt Hershey, a spokesman for U.S. Marshal David Gonzales
in Phoenix, referred inquiries about Loughner’s photograph to
Gerald Auerbach, general counsel for the U.S. Marshals Service
in  Washington , who wasn’t available for comment after regular
business hours.  The Pima County Sheriff’s Office previously released a mug
shot of Loughner taken after his arrest that shows him smiling
and with a shaved head.  The case is U.S. v. Loughner, 11-00187, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Tucson).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 