-- 
Kenyan President Kibaki Says Constitutional Court to Rule on Nominations

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-02-18T16:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/kenyan-president-kibaki-says-constitutional-court-to-rule-on-nominations.html
Kenyan President  Mwai Kibaki 
rejected a decision by the speaker of parliament that his
nomination of four officials was unconstitutional and said the
Constitutional Court should rule on the matter.  Speaker Kenneth Marende yesterday blocked Kibaki’s
nominations to the posts of attorney general, chief justice,
director of public prosecutions and budget controller and said
the president should work with Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  to
find new nominees. Kenya’s shilling weakened the most this month
on the announcement, falling 0.4 percent to 81.75 per dollar.  Odinga, with whom Kibaki signed a power-sharing accord in
2008 to end two months of post-election violence, previously
rejected the nominations because he said he wasn’t consulted
first, violating the constitution. Kibaki said Marende’s verdict
differed with findings by two parliamentary committees set up to
vet the nominations.  “I have at all times acted in accordance with the
constitution and the laws of  Kenya ,” he said in a live address
on national television. “Before we can conclude the nominations
that we have embarked upon, the government will await the
verdict of the Constitutional Court on the nominations.”  Salim Lone, an adviser to Odinga, said today in an e-mailed
statement that Kibaki and Odinga agreed last week to accept the
decision of parliament.  Marende wasn’t available for comment because he had left
for the day, said a person who answered the phone at his office.  Kenya enacted a new constitution in August that aims to
spread political power across the country’s 42 ethnic groups,
achieve more equitable land distribution and place checks and
balances on the president. The new charter replaced one dating
to when Kenya gained independence from Britain in 1963.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 