-- 
King Says G-20 Needs to Step Up Efforts on Global Imbalances

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-18T14:48:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/king-says-g-20-needs-to-step-up-efforts-on-global-imbalances.html
  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said Group of 20 countries need to step up efforts to address
the imbalances between advanced and emerging economies.  “G20 discussions to date have revealed a limited
willingness of countries genuinely to co-ordinate over policies
outside a global crisis,” King said at an event hosted by the
Banque de  France  in Paris today. “If we cannot achieve the
right collective outcome on a discretionary basis, we may have
to consider whether a more rules-based system is appropriate.”  Paris is hosting the G20 meetings of central bankers and
finance ministers this weekend to agree on a common approach to
global economic imbalances. Unsustainable low savings in the
U.S. and the U.K. are mirrored by high saving rates and capital
flows in many emerging markets and “that pattern of demand will
have to change,” King said.  “The global community showed it can work together in times
of crisis when the world economy is on the edge of the abyss as
it did in 2008,” he said. “The challenge now is to prove we
can also work together when we are no longer on the edge, but
still facing deep-seated problems.  King also said that while officials “can all agree that a
rebalancing must take place in the long term, the major surplus
and deficit countries are currently pursuing economic strategies
that are in conflict.”  “There is a risk that this conflict is resolved by a
persistently depressed level of world demand and high
unemployment,” he said.  The threat of trade protectionism “still lurks” in the
global economy and the international monetary system is “ill-
suited” to today’s circumstances and in need of overhaul, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  