-- 
KKR, CVC Cut Costs as Refinancings Expand Sixfold on Leveraged-Loan Rally

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-02-18T14:43:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/kkr-cvc-cut-costs-as-refinancings-expand-sixfold-on-leveraged-loan-rally.html
Private-equity owned companies are
refinancing six times as much of their leveraged loans this
month than they did in all of January, using the longest rally
in more than a year to cut costs.  Univar Inc., owned by CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and
Clayton, Dubilier & Rice LLC, and KKR & Co.’s marketing and
publishing firm Visant Corp., lead $37 billion of loan issuance
to replace higher-cost debt, up from $6.2 billion last month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are pouring record amounts of cash into loan
funds, seeking to protect against rising rates as U.S. Treasury
yields climb the most in more than 4 1/2 years amid signs that
the economic recovery is picking up speed, allowing the neediest
borrowers to reduce interest expenses and delay maturities on
debt used for buyouts and dividends. The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged
Loan 100 Index rose 0.11 cents to 96.41 cents on the dollar as
of yesterday, extending gains for an 11th straight week, the
longest stretch since the period ended Jan. 22, 2010.  “This bodes well for lower quality credit,” said Michael Anderson, a high-yield debt strategist at Citigroup Inc.
“Higher-beta, low-price loans can do better because of a
technical imbalance created by strong inflows and modest new
supply, M&A at improving enterprise multiples, and many higher
quality loans getting re-priced.”  Companies raised or started lender talks this week on $15.1
billion of leveraged loans, 79 percent the total, intended to
reduce borrowing costs, Bloomberg data show. The debt is rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Rising Treasury Yields  The cost of issuing lower-quality leveraged loans dropped
to 5.01 percentage points this month from 5.7 percentage points
in January and 6.39 percentage points at the end of 2010,
according to S&P Leveraged Commentary and Data. High-yield,
high-risk loans pay interest tied to benchmarks such as the
London interbank offered rate and provide a hedge against a rise
in rates linked to Treasuries.  Yields on 10-year U.S. government bonds pared gains to 3.57
percent as of yesterday after rising to 3.74 percent on Feb. 8,
the highest since April 28, according to Bloomberg data. They
are rising for a sixth consecutive month, the biggest stretch
since the period ended June 2006.  “People marked up their forecasts for growth and reduced
their fears of deflation, the combination of those drove up
interest rate costs,” said Josh Feinman, chief economist at DB
Advisors, unit of Deutsche Bank AG that manages $231 billion of
assets.  ‘Big Moves’  Funds investing in loans received a record $1.05 billion
last week, according to Deutsche Bank reports citing Lipper FMI.
Investors flooded the market with $5.35 billion this year,
building up on $3.1 billion of inflows in December, which was
then a monthly high.  “In the weeks we had big moves in the rate market we had
huge inflows to loan mutual funds,” Citigroup’s Anderson said
in a telephone interview from his New York office. “You want to
get ahead of the interest-rate trade because expectations can
change very quickly.”  The  Federal Reserve  raised its inflation-adjusted economic
growth forecast to 3.4 percent to 3.9 percent, according to the
minutes of a Jan. 25-26 meeting released this week. Central
bankers said in November that gross domestic product would grow
at 3 percent to 3.6 percent.  Manufacturers in the Philadelphia region are expanding
output at the fastest pace in seven years on demand for new
equipment and increasing exports, according to Fed data, and
housing starts climbed 15 percent to a 596,000 annual rate as
builders began to work on more homes than forecast in January,
according to the Commerce Department and a Bloomberg News
survey.  ‘Search for Yield’  “Credit markets are much more open, risk appetite is
higher, there’s a search for yield, the corporate sector is in
better shape and people are more confident in the economic
cycle,” DB Advisor’s Feinman said in a telephone interview from
his New York office. “All of that would suggest a better
environment for coming to the credit markets.”  Univar, taken private for about $2.1 billion in 2007 by
London-based private-equity firm CVC, started lender talks this
week to refinance buyout debt and borrowings used to fund a
dividend with a $1.98 billion  term loan .  The Kirkland, Washington-based industrial chemicals
distributor is rated B2 by Moody’s and B by S&P, both five
levels below investment grade.  Initial pricing on the new loan due June 2017 is 3.5
percentage points more than the Libor with a 1.5 percent floor
on the lending benchmark. Univar will issue the debt at par.  Value ‘Priced Out’  That compares with the $300 million loan Univar raised for
a payout in November that was issued at 99 cents on the dollar
and pays a spread of 4.5 percentage points over Libor, which has
a 1.5 percent floor, according to Bloomberg data.  The company in August sought an amendment to push out
maturities on buyout loans by two years to 2016, offering
lenders an interest-rate increase of 1.5 percentage points to
4.5 percentage points more than Libor and adding a 1.75 percent
floor to the benchmark, Bloomberg data show.  Visant, created by New York-based KKR in 2004 by merging at
least three companies, is seeking to cut the interest rate it
pays on a $1.25 billion term loan by 1.75 percentage points,
reducing both the spread and the Libor floor.  The Armonk, New York-based company issued the debt in
September at 98 cents on the dollar with a one-year soft-call
protection of 101 cents on the dollar, Bloomberg data show.
Visant, rated B2 by Moody’s and B+ by S&P, used the proceeds to
pay a $517 million dividend and refinance debt.  Lenders will get a soft-call protection expiring in
September on the new loan, which will be issued at par.  “A lot of the value is getting priced out of the
leveraged-loan market,” Citigroup’s Anderson said. “Compared
to other asset classes which have also run up, it doesn’t look
bad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  