-- 
National Grid Said Among Bidders for E.ON’s U.K. Power Network

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-02-18T19:06:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/national-grid-said-among-bidders-for-e-on-s-u-k-grid-update1-.html
  National Grid Plc , owner of the
U.K.’s high-voltage power grid, is among bidders for E.ON AG’s
electricity distribution network in the country, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  The London-based company made a bid this week in a process
where buyers were asked to say what premium they were ready to
pay on the grid’s 3.5 billion pound ($5.7 billion) regulated
asset base, said the person, who asked not to be identified as
the matter is private. National Grid could work with a pension
fund in acquiring the network, the person said.  The sale of the U.K. electricity lines is part of E.ON’s
plan to sell 15 billion euros ($20.5 billion) of assets by the
end of 2013. The company is seeking to slash debt and raise
funds for growth outside  Europe , where it faces stagnant demand
and levies from governments trying to reduce budget deficits.  Graham McQuarrie, a spokesman for National Grid, said the
company doesn’t comment on market speculation. Carsten Thomsen-
Bendixen, a Dusseldorf-based spokesman for E.ON, didn’t answer
a call to his mobile phone or immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment outside of regular working hours.  E.ON’s power grid has drawn interest from MidAmerican
Energy Holdings Co.,  PPL Corp . and  Cheung Kong Infrastructure
Holdings Ltd . in a sale that may fetch about $6 billion, people
with knowledge of the talks said earlier this month.  Hongkong
Electric Holdings Ltd ., controlled by billionaire Li Ka-shing,
may bid for the asset as the utility expands overseas to
diversify its sources of income, Group Managing Director Tso
Kai-sum said Feb. 16 at a media briefing in Hong Kong.  CKI, controlled by Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing,
MidAmerican, owned by Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc .,
and PPL all have operations in the U.K., according to their
websites.  E.ON is working with  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and Barclays Plc
on the sale of the grid, people said in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ; 