-- 
Gas Producer Hedging Gains as Rally Chances Dim: Energy Markets

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-02-18T11:10:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/natural-gas-producer-hedging-gains-as-rally-prospects-fade-energy-markets.html
Natural gas producers are increasing
forward sales of their U.S. output for a second year, a sign
they see little prospect that prices will rebound from their
lowest level for any winter in the past nine years.  Energy companies have sold about 54 percent of their 2011
oil and gas production, up from 49 percent last year and 47
percent in 2009, according to a Barclays Capital analysis of 37
producers. By selling output now, companies ensure they get paid
today’s prices for future production, a so-called hedge that
protects them from declines.  Natural gas, which accounts for about 23 percent of U.S.
power generation, has fallen 13 percent in  New York  during 2011,
extending a three-year drop, as improved technology for drilling
in shale formations boosted production to the highest in almost
four decades. Prices haven’t been so low in any winter since
2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They may slide a
further 12 percent in “coming weeks,” a Bank of America-
Merrill Lynch report on Feb. 16 showed.  “Most gas producers are not really expecting the market to
turn around in 2011,” said Biliana Pehlivanova, a New York-
based analyst at Barclays Capital, the securities unit of
Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s third-largest bank. “Prices have
remained depressed, and they want to be protected.”  Gas for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
fell 2.5 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $3.843 per million British
thermal units at 11 a.m. London time.  Average Prices  Futures may average $4.37 per million Btu in 2011,
according to the median of 12 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg since Nov. 15. That compares with $7.118 per Btu in
2007, the last year the fuel posted an annual gain. The average
so far this year is $4.324.  Prices will probably fail to reach $6 in 2011, said Mark Hanson, an analyst with Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago . Gas last
traded above $6 about 13 months ago and hasn’t traded below that
price for an entire year since 2002. Bank of America-Merrill
Lynch predicts it will drop to $3.40 in the weeks ahead.    Chesapeake Energy Corp ., the most active U.S. driller, has
hedged 96 percent of its gas production for 2011, compared with
5 percent for its oil, it said in an  investor presentation  this
month. That compares with 61 percent of its gas and 59 percent
of its oil last year. The Oklahoma City-based company had an
average 75 percent of its gas hedged at this time of year from
2006 through 2008, its annual reports show.  ‘Strong Growth’  Selling gas forward at about $6 may allow Chesapeake to
realize $1 billion in hedging gains in 2011, helping it drill
more wells and boost earnings by about 40 percent, Jeff Mobley,
senior vice president for  investor relations  and research, said
during the Credit Suisse Group Energy Summit in Vail,  Colorado ,
on Feb. 10. The company has the most oil and gas rigs operating
in the U.S., according to date published by  Baker Hughes Inc.   “Despite lower commodity prices, we’ve hedged fairly well
and can maintain our drilling activity to provide pretty strong
growth over the next few years,” Mobley said at a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch credit conference on Nov. 17.    Range Resources Corp ., which holds the second-most drilling
permits in  Pennsylvania ’s Marcellus shale-gas formation after
Chesapeake, has hedged 84 percent of its 2011 gas production at
an average floor price of $5.56 and an average ceiling price of
$6.48 per million Btu. The  Fort Worth , Texas-based company
hedged 69 percent of last year’s gas at an average floor price
of $5.53, it said in a January 2010 financial update.  No Benefit  The discrepancy in gas hedging levels versus oil
underscores how traders are betting that economic growth will
buoy prices for crude while near-record supplies limit gains for
gas, according to  Peter Beutel , president of Cameron Hanover
Inc., a  New Canaan , Connecticut energy-advisory company.  “It seems that as the economy strengthens, or there’s a
little bit of bullish news, crude oil, heating oil and gasoline
jump,” Beutel said. “Natural gas doesn’t get any benefit.”  The U.S. natural-gas market is oversupplied by between 1
billion and 1.5 billion cubic feet per day,  David Pursell , a
managing director at Houston-based Tudor Pickering Holt & Co.
LLC, said in an e-mail Feb. 15.  U.S. gas production averaged about 61.8 billion cubic feet
a day in 2010, the highest since 62 billion a day in 1973,
according to the Energy Department in  Washington . Production
this year will average 62.32 billion, department estimates show.  “Our view is that 2012 is probably when you’ll see a
turnaround in natural-gas prices,” Hanson said.  Surplus Erased  Natural gas in  storage  fell to 6.3 percent below the five-
year average in the week ended Feb. 11 as below-normal
temperatures boosted demand and disrupted drilling operations,
Energy Department data show. The frigid weather hasn’t been
enough to correct a supply-demand imbalance, according to  Barclays Capital .  “Demand has staged only a modest recovery, and in our
view, demand growth is slower this year than at this point last
year,” Barclays’s Pehlivanova said in a Feb. 1 note to clients
written with James R. Crandell and Michael Zenker “As a result,
supply levels now greatly outstrip demand levels, and we do not
see a turning point in the near future for supply, demand, or
inventory levels.”  Gas consumption in November by industrial users, which
account for about 28 percent of U.S. demand, was 1.9 percent
below the levels of the same month in 2007, before the start of
the global financial crisis, according to Energy Department
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  