-- 
Neeson’s Botanist Loses Identity, Wife in Creepy Berlin: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-02-19T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/neeson-s-botanist-loses-identity-wife-in-creepy-berlin-movies.html
Berlin is a perfect setting for
“ Unknown ,” a pulsating psychological thriller starring  Liam Neeson  as an American scientist whose identity is apparently
stolen while he’s recovering from a car crash.  The German capital had its own identity crisis during the  Cold War , when it was split in two by the  Berlin Wall , and its
mysterious air has long captivated filmmakers from Alfred Hitchcock to  Quentin Tarantino .  Director Jaume Collet-Serra (“ Orphan ”) soaks up the
atmosphere with shots of the Brandenburg Gate, Museum Island,
 Hotel Adlon  and the  New National Gallery . The scenery
complements the suspenseful tale about Martin Harris (Neeson), a
mild-mannered botanist who awakes from a coma only to learn that
another man (Aidan Quinn) is living with his name, his job and
his wife (frosty January Jones, of “Mad Men”).  Harris’s wife claims she doesn’t recognize him and the
authorities don’t believe his story -- that while visiting the
city for a biotech conference, his taxi crashed into a river and
he was rescued by the female driver. When he leaves the
hospital, his previous life has seemingly disappeared and been
replaced by a state of limbo where he’s chased by assassins for
reasons he can’t fathom.  Harris seeks help from Ernst (spookily played by Bruno Ganz), a former member of the East German secret police; the
lady cabbie (Diane Kruger), who turns out to be an illegal
Bosnian immigrant; and an American friend (taciturn Frank Langella), a mysterious man with his own agenda.  Solving Puzzle  Giving away too much detail will spoil the whole thing, so
I’ve got to stop there. (If you’ve the read the French novel
it’s based on, you’re out of luck.)  Neeson has appeared in a bunch of mediocre movies since his
wife, Natasha Richardson, died in a 2009 skiing accident.
“Unknown” is a vast improvement, despite some gaping holes in
the plot and a few awkwardly shot scenes. The screenplay by
Oliver Butcher and Stephen Cornwell presents an intricate puzzle
that’s fun solving.  “Unknown,” from  Warner Bros. Pictures , is playing across
the U.S. Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 