-- 
Knicks Make Offer for Anthony to Knock Nets Out of Bidding, N.Y. Post Says

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-02-19T20:19:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/nets-nuggets-reach-anthony-deal-if-he-approves-record-reports.html
The  New York Knicks  have made a new
offer to the  Denver Nuggets  for All-Star forward  Carmelo Anthony 
as they try to knock the  New Jersey Nets  out of the bidding, the
New York Post reported without saying where it got the
information.  The Knicks offered Raymond Felton,  Danilo Gallinari ,  Wilson Chandler , Eddy Curry’s expiring contract and a No. 1 pick for
Anthony and Chauncey Billups, the newspaper said. Rookies
Timofey Mozgov and Landry Fields were eliminated from the offer
after the Nuggets said they wanted Gallinari instead, the Post
said.  If Denver accepts the deal, Anthony, 26, could play
alongside Amar’e Stoudemire on a Knicks team seeking its first
winning season in a decade.  New York , which failed to sign
former Cleveland Cavalier LeBron James last season, is 28-26,
second to the Boston Celtics (40-14) in the Eastern Conference’s
Atlantic Division.  Asked yesterday about a New York Daily News report that
Knicks owner James Dolan met with Anthony in Los Angeles and
that the Knicks were planning a conference call with the Nuggets,
Knicks spokesman Jonathan Supranowitz said in an e-mail that the
team had no comment.  The Nuggets, meanwhile, tentatively had agreed to trade
Anthony, a four-time All-Star, to the Nets if he accepted a
three-year, $65 million contract extension, the Record of Bergen
County, New Jersey, reported yesterday on its  website .  ‘News to Me’  Anthony would be traded to  New Jersey  with Billups, Shelden Williams, Melvin Ely and Renaldo Balkman, while the Nuggets
would receive Devin Harris, Derrick Favors, Troy Murphy, Ben Uzoh and four first-round draft picks, the Record said, citing
multiple unidentified National Basketball Association sources.  Nets owner  Mikhail Prokhorov  has no plans to meet with
Anthony at the NBA All-Star Game in Los Angeles this weekend,
the Associated Press reported today, citing a release from the
Russian billionaire’s spokeswoman Ellen Pinchuk. The Record said
the two would meet, though Anthony told the New York Post
nothing was scheduled.  “News to me,” Anthony told the newspaper at a pre-All-
Star community function in Los Angeles. “If I was to meet with
that guy, to be honest, I really don’t know what I would say.”  Move to  Brooklyn   Anthony is averaging 25.2 points and 7.6 rebounds per game
this season, his eighth since being taken with the third pick in
the 2003 NBA draft.  The Nets are 17-40 this season, 12th in the Eastern
Conference. They play their home games in Newark, New Jersey,
and are scheduled to move in two seasons to a new arena being
built in Brooklyn, New York, about three miles from where
Anthony was born.  Anthony has averaged 24.8 points and 6.3 rebounds per game
in his seven-year career. The 6-foot-8 forward ranks fourth
among active players in career scoring, and has finished among
the top eight in scoring in each of the past five seasons.  Anthony went pro after leading  Syracuse University  to the
National Collegiate Athletic Association championship in his
only season at the school. He was selected as the NCAA
tournament’s Most Outstanding Player.  He has led the Nuggets to the playoffs in each of his first
seven NBA seasons. In six of those seven years, the team lost in
the first round.  Anthony is married to actress and television personality
Alani “La La” Vazquez, who also was born in Brooklyn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  