-- 
NYSE Chief Surmounts Leak That Thwarted Earlier Merger Attempt

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-02-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/nyse-chief-surmounts-leaks-to-forge-deutsche-boerse-merger.html
High above 52nd Street in  Manhattan 
last week, in conference rooms at the law firm of Wachtell,
Lipton, Rosen & Katz LLP, word of the leak spread quickly.  A German investor newsletter service, Bernecker
Boersenbriefe, had just spilled the news that the assembled
lawyers and executives had protected for three months, operating
under codenames “Alpha” and “Beta”: The biggest financial
exchanges in New York and  Frankfurt  were on the verge of
combining, creating a $25 billion markets behemoth.  As officials from NYSE Euronext and  Deutsche Boerse AG 
rushed to dial in for a trans-Atlantic conference call, they
could only wonder whether the long-sought merger, undone by a
similar leak more than two years earlier, was again at risk of
unraveling.  This time, NYSE Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer ,
and his counterpart at Deutsche Boerse, Reto Francioni, kept the
deal on course. Six days later, the executives announced the
agreement to form the world’s top exchange owner, with  Deutsche
Boerse  shareholders owning about 60 percent of the new company.  This account was assembled from interviews with people who
took part in the private discussions and who spoke on condition
of anonymity. Frank Herkenhoff, a spokesman for Deutsche Boerse,
and Rich Adamonis, a spokesman for NYSE, declined to comment.  First Leak  Niederauer and Francioni first got serious about a merger
in 2008, a year after NYSE trumped the German exchange’s bid for
Euronext NV, entering the European  derivatives market  that
Deutsche Boerse dominates. The world’s financial exchanges were
being swept up in a wave of consolidation, as computer
technology drove down the fees exchanges can charge for
executing stock trades, and as the market for trading
derivatives exploded in size.  The talks were helped along by a cordial relationship
between the CEOs: Niederauer, now 51, who grew up on Long Island
and plays pickup basketball, and Francioni, 55, who is Swiss and
enjoys trout fishing.  Then on Dec. 6, 2008, the German magazine  Der Spiegel 
reported that Deutsche Boerse was holding merger talks with  NYSE
Euronext . Unprepared for the leak, the companies failed to
directly address the matter until the next day. By that time,
their investors and regulators were questioning the deal, and
with key terms still unresolved, the parties opted to call off
talks.  Deutsche Boerse issued a statement: “If these talks indeed
took place, then they ended without any conclusion.”  Unbalanced  Leak aside, the chances for a deal had been dwindling as
NYSE’s stock price plummeted that November, shifting the
relative market values of the two companies to a point that it
would be difficult to structure as a true merger of equals.  “There was probably too big a difference, quite honestly,
in the market cap of the companies,” Niederauer said of the
2008 discussions, speaking to reporters this week. “If it
weren’t balanced, it would be hard to convince the policy makers
and regulators on both sides of the Atlantic to contemplate what
we think is a pretty powerful combination.”  Niederauer and Francioni kept in touch, meeting at the  World Economic Forum  at Davos,  Switzerland , in 2010.  Niederauer also considered other options, including a tie-
up with  London Stock Exchange Group Plc . He dropped that idea,
however, after an informal conversation in mid-2010 with LSE’s
CEO,  Xavier Rolet , left Niederauer convinced that LSE wasn’t
interested in a sale of the company. Victoria Brough, a
spokeswoman for LSE, declined to comment.  Restarting Talks  By then, however, NYSE’s stock had recovered enough so
that, in a merger with Deutsche Boerse, it would make up more
than 36 percent of the combined company. Niederauer and
Francioni restarted talks in November, and their teams at
Perella Weinberg Partners LP, Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. got to work hashing out the details. At Davos in
late January, the two CEOs’ talk focused on the deal.  To assuage concerns in the U.S. and  Germany  that each side
was selling out to foreigners, they structured a new entity in
Amsterdam that would serve as the acquirer of each company.
After a key negotiating session there in early February, NYSE’s
16-member board also convened in the Dutch offices for their
first detailed discussion of the combination.  Another Deal  A week later, part of the Deutsche Boerse deal team was
heading back to Germany after negotiations in New York at one of
NYSE’s law firms, Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP. Another
part of the German group, whose sole outside counsel was
Linklaters LLP, stayed in Manhattan for further talks the next
day at Wachtell Lipton, which was also working with NYSE.
Meanwhile, some NYSE officials were preparing to brief  Standard
& Poor’s , the credit-rating company, the following day on the
merger plans.  To their surprise, they learned theirs was not the only
trans-Atlantic combination in the offing: The Financial Times
reported LSE was nearing a deal with  TMX Group Inc ., the
Canadian exchange operator.  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE’s own leak followed less than a
day later.  Fearing public outcry would help sink a deal for the second
time, Niederauer was on the phone with New York Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat, almost as soon as the German newsletter’s
report hit. Niederauer’s team had previously identified
Schumer’s approval as key for smoothing the way for how the deal
would be accepted by lawmakers and regulators in  Washington .  Calling Schumer  Reached at a conference in Charlottesville,  Virginia ,
Schumer’s initial reaction was negative -- he was concerned
about the merger’s impact on New York jobs and the city’s status
as a financial center. His tone softened after hearing that the
deal would be structured as a merger, with Niederauer as CEO.  Niederauer, in  New York , then dialed in to speak with
Francioni, at his office in Germany, and their advisers. The
sides had agreed to disclose detailed terms in the event of a
leak, though they had yet to reach an agreement on what exactly
those terms would be -- just a vague notion that NYSE would
receive about a 10 percent premium because of its smaller size.  With trading of both stocks halted, the executives quickly
realized that they would need, in effect, to negotiate the price
of the transaction in order to have something to tell the
markets. In just a few minutes, they settled on a narrow range
for the valuation and issued a press release.  Less than a week later, the exchanges signed the deal and
announced it to the world. Still unresolved is the name of the
combined firm, with Schumer and others arguing that NYSE should
come first. For now, the name of the new Dutch shell company set
up to facilitate the merger is a nod to the once-secret
monikers: Alpha Beta Netherlands Holding NV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 