-- 
Obama Says U.S. Must Foster Business-Friendly Climate

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-02-18T21:30:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/obama-says-u-s-must-create-climate-for-businesses-to-invest.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
must foster a business climate that will encourage  job creation 
and that includes assuring that companies can draw on an
educated workforce and that the federal debt is brought under
control.  “In a world that is more competitive than ever before,
it’s our job to make sure that America is the best place on
earth to do business,” the president said at an  Intel Corp .
semiconductor manufacturing facility in Hillsboro, Oregon, west
of Portland.  Obama is highlighting his administration’s policies that
will put more money into education in science and technology to
make sure the U.S. stays ahead of economic competitors. He
praised Intel for having “placed its bets on America” by
building plants in the U.S. and backing research and education.  Paul S. Otellini, president and chief executive of Intel,
used the occasion to announce that the world’s largest chipmaker
will spend $5 billion to build a plant in  Arizona  and will hire
4,000 employees in the U.S. this year. He echoed the president’s
theme that money spent on education will help nurture workers
who will “manage the industry of the future.”  Obama earlier named Otellini to the President’s Council on
Jobs and Competitiveness. The council, headed by  Jeffrey Immelt ,
chief executive of  General Electric Co ., the world’s biggest
maker of  jet engines , was formed last month to help generate
ideas for fostering U.S. economic growth.  ‘Same Team’  “We are all on the same team -- the American team,” said
Obama, whose relationship with the business community was
sometimes strained during his first two years in office.  The president joined Otellini for a tour of the Intel
campus, site of the world’s most advanced semiconductor
manufacturing plant, and was briefed on the company’s science
talent search program for students.  Intel invokes STEM, an acronym for science, technology,
engineering and math, as part of its education program. Intel
conducts science contests and offers online resources for
students from kindergarten to grade 12 to generate the next wave
of innovators, according to its website.  Over the past decade, Intel and the Intel Foundation have
invested more than $1 billion toward improving education, the
White House said in a statement.  Intel rose 17 cents to $22.14 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares had climbed 4.5 percent
this year before today.  Agenda in Budget  The president’s agenda for education and innovation was
part of the $3.7 trillion budget he sent to Congress on Feb. 14.
The spending blueprint for the year that begins Oct. 1 calls for
more money in innovation, education and technology while
trimming spending in other areas.  He faces a fight with Republicans in Congress who say  government spending  must be cut to deal with the deficit,
forecast to hit $1.6 trillion this year.  “To really get our deficit under control, we’re going to
have to do more,” Obama said. “I want to work with both
parties to find additional savings and get rid of excessive
spending wherever it exists.”  Still, he said investments in education and innovation are
too important to cut. “If we want the next technological
breakthrough, that leads to the next Intel to happen here, in
the United States, not in  China  or in  Germany  but here in the  United States , then we have to invest in America’s research and
technology,” he said.  Dinner With Executives  Obama was wrapping up a two-day West Coast trip to the San
Francisco area and  Oregon , soliciting support of technology
leaders as part of his global competiveness agenda to create
growth and jobs and cut the  unemployment rate , currently at 9
percent.  Yesterday, in Woodside,  California , north of Silicon
Valley, Obama dined with technology executives including Apple
Inc.  Chief Executive Officer Steve Jobs, Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg  and Google Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt , among others, to discuss his innovation and economic
policies.  The meetings today in Oregon and yesterday in California
also continued the president’s effort to rebuild ties to
business after White House relations were strained amid the
overhaul of health care and financial regulations.  Turning to Otellini  Obama has turned to Otellini, 60, for advice before. He was
one of the chief executives at the White House on Dec. 15 for a
conference on the economy, taxes, trade, regulation, education
and competition. Otellini was also among the guests at the White
House honoring the visit of Chinese President Hu Jintao on Jan.
19.  Intel’s microprocessors run more than 80 percent of the
world’s personal computers. Rival Samsung is the biggest maker
of memory chips. The two companies compete in the market for
memory used in mobile products such as Apple Inc.’s iPad and
iPhone.  Otellini joined the  Santa Clara , California-based company
in 1974 and became chief executive in May 2005. As a former
manager of global sales and marketing, Otellini has set a goal
of making portable wireless computing within reach anywhere. The
company is also focused on “bringing the next billion people
online with affordable computers tailored to their needs,” a
White House statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Hillsboro, Oregon at 
Or  rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  