-- 
Obama Lawyers Say Ruling on Fed Loan Disclosure Should Stand

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   B o b   I v r y
-- 
2011-02-19T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/obama-lawyers-urge-court-to-reject-banks-on-loans.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  should reject
a banking industry appeal aimed at stopping release of details
about the  Federal Reserve ’s emergency 2008 bank loans, the Obama
administration said as it changed course on the corporate
secrecy case.  A group representing the largest U.S. commercial banks is
seeking review of a federal appeals court decision requiring
disclosure of the lending records. Government lawyers yesterday
urged the justices to leave that ruling intact, even while
criticizing it as improperly forcing release of commercially
sensitive information.  The opposition of the government, which until now had
fought alongside the banking industry against disclosure,
reduces the likelihood that the justices will agree to hear the
case. The government said the underlying issues lacked enough
practical significance to warrant Supreme Court scrutiny in part
because Congress last year laid out new rules for disclosing Fed
loans.  “Congress has resolved the question of whether and when
the type of information at issue in this case must be
disclosed” in the future, the administration said in a brief
filed by acting Solicitor General Neal Katyal, President  Barack Obama ’s top Supreme Court lawyer.  The Fed at one point had sought to join the banking
industry in seeking high court review, only to be overruled by
Katyal, according to court documents.  Bloomberg Sues  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, sued
the Fed for the release of the information under the Freedom of
Information Act, known as FOIA. Bloomberg is seeking to learn
the names of the banks that received loans from the Fed’s
Discount Window in April and May 2008, along with the amounts
they received and the collateral they promised.  The company initially requested similar information for aid
recipients under three other Fed emergency programs. The central
bank released details for those facilities and others in
December, under legislation Congress adopted last year.
Lawmakers exempted Discount Window lending from those December
disclosures.  Bloomberg yesterday urged the Supreme Court not to hear the
appeal, saying the appeals court reached the right conclusion
that FOIA requires the Fed to release the loan data.  “Disclosure of the remaining information encompassed by
Bloomberg’s request has been delayed for far too long,” the
company argued. “This court ought not to allow the Clearing
House’s petition to extend that delay even longer.”  Trial Court Ruling  A federal trial judge ruled in 2009 that the Fed had to
disclose the records, and a New York-based appeals court upheld
that ruling.  In its appeal, the Clearing House Association LLC said the
appeals court ruling “would impair numerous agency programs
that depend on assuring third parties that details of their
commercial transactions with the government will remain
confidential.”  The trade group said the Fed has never disclosed the
identities of borrowers since the creation in 1914 of its
 Discount Window  lending program, which provides short-term
funding to financial institutions.  The New York-based Clearing House, which has processed
payments among banks since 1853, includes Bank of America NA,
Bank of  New York  Mellon,  Citibank NA , Deutsche Bank Trust Co.
Americas, HSBC Bank USA NA, JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, U.S. Bank NA
and Wells Fargo Bank NA.  In trying to shield the documents from disclosure, the
Clearing House is invoking a FOIA exemption that covers   trade
secrets  and commercial or financial information obtained from a
person and privileged or confidential.”  That provision has since been superseded for the purposes
of Discount Window lending. Under the Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act, known as Dodd-Frank, Discount Window
loans made after July 21, 2010, would have to be released
following a two-year lag.  The case is Clearing House Association v. Bloomberg, 10-
543.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Ivry in New York at   bivry@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 