-- 
Obama Dines With Jobs, Zuckerberg With U.S. Economy on Menu

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-02-18T06:38:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/obama-dines-with-jobs-zuckerberg-with-u-s-economy-on-menu.html
President  Barack Obama  dined with a
dozen leaders of the U.S. technology industry including  Apple
Inc . Chief Executive Officer Steve Jobs and Facebook Inc.
founder  Mark Zuckerberg  as he sought support for his education
and innovation agenda and discussion on promoting growth.  The president met privately with the executives last night
at the secluded home of John Doerr in Woodside, California, a
wealthy community about 25 miles south of San Francisco. Doerr
is a senior partner with Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a
Silicon Valley venture capital firm.  “The president specifically discussed his proposals to
invest in research and development and expand incentives for
companies to grow and hire, along with his goal of doubling
exports over five years to support millions of American jobs,”
spokesman Jay Carney said in a statement after the meeting,
which lasted more than two hours.  Carney said the group also discussed the importance of
investments in education and a new joint government and private
sector partnership aimed at supporting startups and small
businesses.  Obama’s $3.7 trillion budget sent to Congress Feb. 14
includes $148 billion for research and development, about $80
billion for federal information technology programs and a 4
percent increase in education, to $77.4 billon.  Attendees  Also attending the session were  Google Inc . Chief Executive
Officer  Eric Schmidt ,  Carol Bartz , head of Yahoo! Inc., Dick Costolo, CEO of Twitter Inc., Reed Hastings, CEO of NetFlix Inc.,
Arthur Levinson, Genentech Inc. chairman, John L. Hennessy,
president of Stanford University, and venture capitalist Steve Westly, managing partner of The Westly Group, according to a
White House statement. The event was closed to press coverage.  John Chambers, head of  Cisco Systems Inc ., and  Oracle Corp .
CEO Larry Ellison also attended.  Obama’s economic policies are under fire from Republican
lawmakers who control the  House of Representatives , and the
administration is seeking ways to bring down the  unemployment
rate . The rate has stood at 9 percent or more for the longest
stretch since monthly data was first compiled in 1948.  Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat who co-founded a
company that is now  Sprint Nextel Corp ., said in an interview
that the Internet and social networking have been one of the
rare areas of significant growth in the past decade.  Technology Jobs  Facebook, the world’s most-used social networking service,
has grown to more than 2,000 employees from about 1,000 in
August 2009, according to its website. Google, which had 24,400
employees at the end of 2010, hired more than 4,500 people last
year, making that year second only to 2007, when the  Mountain
View , California-based company added more than 6,000. Cupertino,
California-based Apple increased its global headcount 36 percent
to 46,600 as of September.  Warner, who met Zuckerberg on Jan. 19 at Facebook’s Palo
Alto,  California , headquarters, said that “without innovation
and a growing economy out in” Silicon Valley, “we’re not going
to be competitive.”  Warner said the executives will likely seek Obama’s help in
improving the business climate in the U.S. That would include
lowering corporate taxes, shortening the patent approval process,
helping new businesses get the capital they need to launch and
expand and shortening the Food and Drug Administration approval
process, he said.  Industrial Heirs  In his  State of the Union  address Jan. 25, Obama cited
technology companies as heirs to the industries that made the
U.S. the world’s biggest economy.  Charlene Li, author of “Open Leadership: How Social
Technology Can Transform the Way You Lead,” said Silicon Valley
shows how the U.S. can stay at the top of global economic
competition.  “A visit to Silicon Valley by any president is to focus
on one of the core competitive advantages that the  United States 
has: the fact that we are leaders,” Li said.  Obama plans to highlight education later today during a
visit to  Intel Corp .’s Hillsboro, Oregon campus, where he will
tour the company’s semiconductor manufacturing facility with
Chief Executive Paul Otellini.  Obama has tapped Silicon Valley for support in the past.
While this trip doesn’t have a direct political purpose,
according to Carney, when Obama was in California last October,
he helped raise money for the Democratic National Committee at
the home of Westly.  High-Tech Contributors  Employees in the high-tech industry contributed $8.5
million to Obama’s 2008 campaign, compared with $1.5 million for
Republican nominee John McCain, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group. No 2008
candidate received more money than Obama from industry employees.
Obama won more than 70 percent of the vote in 2008 in the area
where the dinner is taking place.  During that October stop in the  San Francisco  area Obama
held a separate meeting with Jobs, who announced on Jan. 17 that
he was taking a medical leave from the world’s most valuable
technology company.  Facebook, along with Google and Twitter, also increasingly
figures in U.S. foreign policy. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  vowed in remarks Feb. 15 that the U.S. will step up
support for global Internet freedom, as citizens using social
networking sites and other areas of the Internet to organize
demonstrations spreading across the Mideast and North Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net 
Roger Runningen in Woodside, California, at   rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  