-- 
Obama Administration Seeks Clarification on Scope of Health-Care Ruling

-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-02-18T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/obama-administration-seeks-clarification-on-scope-of-health-care-ruling.html
A judge was asked by the Obama
administration to clarify the scope of his ruling invalidating
federal health-care reform legislation after  Alaska ’s governor
said the law no longer applies in his state.  U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson in Pensacola,  Florida ,
last month ruled that the portion of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act that mandates people procure minimum
coverage starting in 2014 is unconstitutional. He then granted a
request by 26 states to invalidate the entire  law , saying the
mandate was integral to all aspects of the statute.  The federal government, in papers filed with Vinson
yesterday, asked him to clarify whether that decision relieves
the suing states of their rights and obligations under the act
while the U.S. pursues an appeal.  “We believe it is important to put to rest any doubts
about the ability of states and other parties to continue to
implement these critical programs and consumer protections
provided under this statute,”  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice
Department spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement announcing
the U.S. filing.  The 955-page act was signed into law by Obama on March 23,
with the intent to provide health insurance coverage to 32
million more people by compelling all people over age 18 to
obtain coverage, barring insurers from denying coverage to those
who are already sick and from imposing lifetime limits on costs.  Florida Lawsuit  Then-Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum  filed what
became the 26-state lawsuit the same day the president signed
the bill.  Virginia  Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli filed a
separate lawsuit challenging the insurance provision.  Vinson, who was nominated to the federal bench by President  Ronald Reagan , a Republican, in 1983, is one of two U.S. judges
who have concluded that the insurance mandate exceeds the
legislative power allocated to Congress under the Constitution.  U.S. District Judge Henry Hudson in Richmond, Virginia,
found that portion of the legislation invalid in a Dec. 13
ruling in Cuccinelli’s case that left the remainder of the act
standing. Hudson was selected for the bench by Republican
President  George W. Bush  in 2002.  The Obama Administration appealed Hudson’s ruling to the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Richmond.  Appeal Plans  The administration has said it will appeal Vinson’s
decision.  Matthew Miller , a Justice Department spokesman, said
yesterday that the government hasn’t yet filed papers preserving
its right to appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta.  Two other U.S. judges, each of whom were appointed by
President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat, have upheld the
constitutionality of the measure.  Alaska Governor Sean Parnell, citing Vinson’s ruling, said
yesterday that his state wouldn’t seek federal grant money to
implement the health care reform legislation. Alaska was one of
the states that joined Florida’s lawsuit.  “The Florida court’s declaratory judgment that the federal
health-care law is unconstitutional is the law of the land as it
applies to Alaska,” Parnell said in a statement.  Wisconsin Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen said Feb. 1 that
the ruling in the Florida case relieved his state of any
obligation or duty under the federal health-care law. He said
that day that the act was “dead.”  “We don’t think we can advise that this law is void, Ohio
Attorney General Mike DeWine, a Republican, said on Feb. 1.  The U.S., in its filing yesterday, said Vinson’s decision
“potentially implicates hundreds of provisions of the act and,
if it were interpreted to apply to programs currently in effect,
duties currently in force, taxes currently being collected, and
tax credits that may be owed at this time or in the near future,
would create substantial uncertainty.”  The case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, 10-cv-00091, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Florida   Pensacola ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 