-- 
Holcim Joins Suit Against EU Regulator Over CO2 Theft

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-02-18T17:43:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/holcim-joins-suit-against-eu-regulator-over-co2-theft-update1-.html
The Romanian unit of  Holcim Ltd ., a
Swiss cement maker, plans to start legal action against the
European Commission to help find 1 million stolen carbon
permits, according to the attorney handling the case.  The company will join a suit started last month by Italian
energy trader TCIE Srl, which is seeking as much as 100,000
euros ($136,000) a day in penalty payments from the commission
after about 268,000 carbon allowances disappeared from its
account in November, said Laurent Arnauts, head of the law firm
representing the two companies.  “The case is gaining importance, with 1.3 million permits
representing a value of about 20 million euros,” Arnauts said
by phone from Brussels today.  The theft of permits from Holcim and TCIE last year was
followed by computer-hacking attacks last month on at least
three national carbon registries, which said more than 2 million
permits were illegally transferred. This led the commission,
regulator of the European Union emissions trading system, to
impose a suspension on all 30 carbon centers in  Europe  on Jan.
19. Seven of them have been allowed to resume so far.  The commission can’t disclose information about stolen
permits to anyone except for law enforcement authorities, said
Isaac Valero-Ladron, EU climate spokesman. “We are confident
that the court will decide in the commission’s favor,” he said.  Peter Gysel, a spokesman for Holcim in Zurich, said he
couldn’t immediately comment on the case.  Helping Thieves  Arnauts, based in Brussels, asked the commission last month
to publish a list of national registries holding the permits
stolen from Milan-based TCIE, which operates under the name of
The Cube Energy. A refusal by the EU regulator to provide names
and block trades gave “free way to the thieves,” according to
the lawyer.  “Since the commission said it only has the authority to
block entire national registries and not individual accounts, I
am now asking for the suspension of all registries where the
stolen accounts are hidden,” Arnauts said.  The Romanian unit of Holcim said on Nov. 30 that 1.6
million permits had been stolen from its accounts in the
national registry. The company has managed to recover 600,000
allowances and asked the EU, which oversees the national carbon
databases, to help track the missing permits.  Romanian prosecutors are seeking assistance from the U.K.,  Italy ,  Belgium ,  Israel  and Liechtenstein in an investigation
over the theft, the Bucharest-based organized crime and
terrorism unit of the state prosecutor’s office said Jan. 31.  The next hearing in the case will be held on Feb. 21 in the
Court of First Instance in Brussels, Arnauts said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net 
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  