-- 
Oracle Seeks to Bar U.S. From Giving States Whistleblower Data

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-02-18T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/oracle-seeks-to-bar-u-s-from-giving-states-whistleblower-data.html
  Oracle Corp ., the world’s second-
biggest software maker, will ask a federal magistrate judge in  Virginia  today to keep company data in a whistleblower case out
of the hands of state prosecutors.  Oracle, accused in a U.S. lawsuit of overcharging the
government on software contracts worth $1 billion, will argue in
a hearing in Alexandria that U.S. Magistrate Judge Thomas Jones
should block the  Justice Department  from sharing confidential
company information with state attorneys general.  Lawyers specializing in whistleblower cases said Oracle’s
request to shield documents from state governments may be an
attempt to limit the company’s liability, which some attorneys
not involved in the case said could be as much as $1 billion in
the U.S. lawsuit alone.  “Whenever there is federal money involved, often there is
state money involved,” Jeb White, a Philadelphia lawyer who
represents whistleblowers, said in an interview. “Oracle wants
to keep that information from spreading out to other potential
plaintiffs.”  The lawsuit was filed under the  False Claims Act  in 2007 by
Paul Frascella, a former Oracle employee, and joined by the
Justice Department on July 29. The act lets citizens sue on
behalf of the government and share in any recovery, while the
government has the option of intervening in a case. The U.S. is
seeking triple damages and can collect as much as $11,000 for
each false billing.  Discount Rates  Oracle is accused of inducing the  General Services
Administration , or GSA, to buy $1.08 billion in software from
1998 to 2006 by falsely representing that the government was
receiving the same discounts as most-favored commercial
customers. Oracle instead gave companies discounts of as much as
92 percent, while the government’s reductions ranged from
25 percent to 40 percent, the U.S. claims.  Under the contract, Oracle promised discounts to the
government at scheduled rates. In return, it didn’t have to bid
each time it sold software to 21 agencies, including the State,
Defense and Treasury departments. The  GSA  helps manage federal
properties and assists other agencies in buying goods and
services.    Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle, didn’t return a phone call and e-mail
seeking comment. Oracle reported net income of $6.14 billion on
sales of $26.8 billion for the year ended in May.  Protective Order  The U.S. requested a protective order, agreeing that some
information it received from Oracle during the case should be
kept from the public such as financial and trade secret data,
according to court papers.  The U.S. said it would only share information deemed
confidential with Congress and federal and state agencies.  Oracle objected to the sharing proposal, alleging in court
papers that it would “permit any employee of the government who
views Oracle’s confidential materials to then contact any state
government, unsolicited, and share copies of that material.”  “To the extent any state feels it has an interest in this
litigation, the proper course is for such a state to seek to
intervene, rather than simply review Oracle’s confidential
materials from the sidelines,” Oracle said in court papers.  Frascella, the whistleblower, filed his own objection to
Oracle’s proposed protective order, noting that many states have
procurement programs similar to the GSA’s.  ‘Ripping Off States’  “Oracle apparently is afraid that GSA or the  Department of
Justice  may share information demonstrating that Oracle has been
ripping off states too,” Frascella said in court documents.  John T. Boese, a lawyer who defends companies in false
claims cases, said the Justice Department may be using the
threat of state action to force a settlement.  “One way to put pressure on a defendant is to get more
states involved,” said Boese of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver &
Jacobson LLP in  Washington .  Marc Raspanti, a Philadelphia lawyer who represents
whistleblowers, said 28 states have false claims laws similar to
the federal government’s.  “There’s no faster way to galvanize a state against a
defendant than to tell them they can’t see the materials
provided to the federal government,” Raspanti said.  On Jan. 31, Oracle America Inc. agreed to pay $46 million
to resolve claims that Sun Microsystems Inc., which merged with
Oracle last year, paid kickbacks in an attempt to get government
contracts and submitted false information to U.S. contracting
officers.  The case is  United States of America  v. Oracle Corp., 07-
cv-00529, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 