-- 
Osborne Will Open U.K. to Scrutiny in Effort to Get G-20 Deal

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-02-18T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/osborne-will-open-u-k-to-scrutiny-in-effort-to-get-g-20-deal.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  offered to permit the  International Monetary Fund  to
inspect U.K. capital flows to encourage an agreement among Group
of 20 nations on a set of early-warning indicators to gauge
risks to the global economy.  Osborne told fellow finance ministers gathered in Paris
that he would subject the U.K. to a process in which the IMF
looks at the flows of capital in and out of nations, an official
from the Treasury said today. Osborne hopes the effort will
encourage agreement among his counterparts on the other areas
that need monitoring, said the official.  Emerging economies such as China and  Russia  are resisting
efforts by the world’s richest economies to include income flows
between countries in early-warning indicators that aim to gauge
risks to the global economy. The official said the U.K. wants an
accord at the two-day meeting on what indicators should be
monitored before agreeing to target levels later this year.  Debt and deficits, as well as the size of foreign exchange
reserves, savings ratios and growth differentials, are among the
indicators that host French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde 
put up for discussion at the Paris meeting.  The U.K. Treasury official said ministers were close to an
agreement on monitoring levels of private and public debt and
fiscal deficits and will seek consensus on adopting current
account and currency indicators.  Osborne also told his G-20 peers that commodity-price
volatility is the biggest risk to economy after fiscal deficits
and pushed for greater transparency of production and stock
levels, the official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Paris at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  