-- 
Palm Oil Declines Amid Speculation on China Tariff Reductions

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-02-18T11:12:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/palm-oil-declines-amid-speculation-on-china-tariff-reductions.html
  Palm oil  declined for a fourth day
as importers deferred purchases on speculation that  China , the
biggest user, may cut tariffs to help quell inflation.  The May-delivery contract fluctuated between an advance of
1.7 percent and a loss of 1.6 percent before closing 1 percent
lower at 3,684 ringgit ($1,214) a metric ton in Kuala Lumpur.
The price fell 6.9 percent this week.  There’s speculation that China may cut import tariffs on
cooking oils made from palm, soybeans and canola to 5 percent
from 9 percent, Chen Baomin, a manager at Jilin Grain Group Co.,
said yesterday. China’s consumer prices increased 4.9 percent in
January from a year earlier.  “People may view this positively in the sense that it may
be cheaper now to import,” Ivy Ng, an analyst at CIMB
Investment Bank Bhd., said by phone in  Kuala Lumpur . Still, “if
people think that China is going to lower import duties, then
they may not buy, and wait and see what China does next.”  Prices of oils and grains have soared over the past year as
global inventories have dropped after adverse weather conditions
hurt crops. Global food prices surged in January to a record,
according to Food & Agriculture Organization data.  Palm oil has rallied 42 percent in the past year, touching
a 35-month high of 3,967 ringgit a ton last week. Excess rain in  Southeast Asia  and droughts in Argentina and  Brazil  caused by a
La Nina have hurt harvests of palm oil and soybeans, straining
global oilseed stockpiles.    India  Accord  Malaysia completed an economic agreement with India today
that will provide its companies with greater access to the
world’s second-fastest growing major economy to invest and sell
products including palm oil. The South Asian nation is the top
buyer of the tropical oil, which represents almost 80 percent of
edible-oil shipments.  Malaysian companies, including Sime Darby Bhd. and Kuala
Lumpur Kepong Bhd., will get better concessions for palm oil and
palm-oil products. India will bind tariffs on refined palm oil
and three related products at 45 percent by the end of 2018,
International Trade and Industry Minister  Mustapa Mohamed  said
after signing the deal in Putrajaya, outside Kuala Lumpur.  Some analysts have said that palm oil may be close to
peaking. Prices, which may still touch 4,000 ringgit due to
weather vagaries, may be unsustainable as they cause to a
slowdown in demand, Tan Ting Min and Teddy Oetomo, analysts at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a report yesterday.  Extreme Poverty  Global food prices have surged to dangerous levels, pushing
44 million more people into extreme poverty since June,
according to the  World Bank . This may lead nations to make the
mistake of imposing curbs on shipments such as export bans or
other tax or price controls that could exacerbate the problem,
President Robert Zoellick said Feb. 16.  May-delivery soybeans fell as much as 1.7 percent to $13.93
per bushel in  Chicago  at 6:41 p.m. in Singapore.  Soybean oil , a
rival product to palm oil, dropped as much as 1.5 percent to
58.01 cents per pound.  September-delivery palm oil on the  Dalian Commodity
Exchange  dropped 0.4 percent to close at 9,654 yuan ($1,468) a
ton. Soybean oil for delivery the same month shed 0.2 percent to
10,360 yuan a ton at the close.  CME Group Inc.’s most-active June palm-oil contract, pegged
to the Malaysian benchmark price, declined 2.5 percent to $1,203
a ton at 5:07 p.m. in  Singapore .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  