-- 
Pimco Favors California Muni Bonds on Rebounding Tax Revenue

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-02-18T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/pimco-favors-california-muni-bonds-on-rebounding-tax-revenue.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s largest bond fund, said  California 
municipal debt is attractive because the state’s finances are
recovering from the recession.  Pimco Managing Director Saumil Parikh, speaking at a
 Bloomberg Link  event yesterday at the  University of California ,  Los Angeles , said the state’s tax revenue is increasing, which
is boosting the value of its general-obligation bonds.  “We like California G.O.s a lot,” Parikh said. “They
actually look more attractive than a lot of corporate debt out
there.”  Kirk Hartman, who helps oversee $200 billion as chief
investment officer of San Francisco-based Wells Capital
Management, agreed with Parikh’s assessment of California bonds,
particularly the 25-year maturities, which yield about 6
percent.  “I do like long California G.O.s,” Hartman said during
the conference. “I view the muni market as having had a lot of
correction.”  Tax-exempt bonds lost 4.5 percent in the fourth quarter,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Municipal Master
Index, the worst performance in more than 16 years.  Meredith Whitney , the banking analyst, said on CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes”
Dec. 19 that there may be as many as 100 “sizable” municipal-
bond defaults this year totaling “hundreds of billions of
dollars.”  Gross Purchase    Bill Gross , Pimco’s co-chief investment officer, spent $4.4
million of his own money to purchase shares in five municipal-
bond funds in December. Municipal securities are oversold, Pimco
said in a  report  published this month  Facing a deficit of $25.4 billion over the next year and a
half, California Governor  Jerry Brown  has proposed balancing the
books through a combination of spending cuts and tax extensions.
He’s urging legislators and voters to approve the budget plan.  California tax revenue rose 19 percent year-over-year to
$22.2 billion in the fourth quarter, according to the state
controller’s  website .  “I look at this as a very healthy debate that’s going on
right now,” Hartman said of state budgets nationally. “When
you have a problem, the first step is to admit you have a
problem. Then you start doing something about it.”  States face gaps that may reach $125 billion next year,
according to the Washington-based Center on Budget & Policy
Priorities, a nonprofit research group focused on issues that
affect lower-income Americans.  ‘Better Than Expected’  The financial performance of states and cities tends to lag
behind the overall economy, Parikh said.  “You’re going to see most deficits smaller than what
analysts expected at the onset,” he said. “The cash flow
numbers that we’re all so afraid of will come in better than
expected.”  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE , is
staying away from cities and some county issuers, he said.  “We’ll continue to see a lot of cities restructure because
they just don’t have the flexibility that states have,” he
said.  Hartman said he was worried about municipal bonds related
to special purposes such as health-care, aquariums or convention
centers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  