-- 
Obama Aides Plouffe, Daley Bring More Order, Less Profanity to West Wing

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-02-18T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/plouffe-and-daley-bring-greater-order-less-profanity-to-obama-s-west-wing.html
  David Plouffe , President  Barack Obama ’s newest senior White House adviser, has a benchmark for
anything his boss does these days: How will it play with a
middle-aged white woman in Ohio?    William Daley , Obama’s chief of staff, can relate to such
focus. When aides were searching for the ultimate example of
government inefficiency that Obama could cite in his State of
the Union address, Daley had the answer: interjurisdictional
salmon. One agency, he explained, is in charge of freshwater
salmon, while another deals with the fish in saltwater.  That combination of tactical thinking and problem-solving
the two men bring to Obama’s inner circle is creating more
organization in a White House that needs it, current and former
administration officials said. It will prove useful to the
president as he confronts a new, hostile environment in Congress
and prepares for his re-election campaign, they say.  When Obama entered office with a staff that had largely
worked together before, such organization didn’t mean as much.  “The structure was less important because everyone knew
each other so well, but now you have a lot of new people in the
mix,” said communications director  Dan Pfeiffer . “This is an
important and challenging two years, and we need to be set up in
the best possible way.”  Daley Dynasty  Daley is part of a Chicago political dynasty, a former
Commerce secretary and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . executive who
insists on structure. Plouffe, Obama’s 2008 campaign manager, is
driven by data and measurable results, and is adding the
discipline and accountability that officials credit with making
the long-shot presidential run a success.  Part of that success owes to Plouffe’s focus on Ohio and
women voters. The state is a reliable predictor of national
moods, having voted with the  winner  in the last 12 presidential
elections, and women are a key swing constituency.  Plouffe and Daley replace two men who have been friends and
worked together for 30 years --  David Axelrod  and Rahm Emanuel,
who left last year seeking to succeed Daley’s brother,  Richard M. Daley , as mayor of  Chicago . The new arrivals bring different
skills and temperaments to the West Wing.  Axelrod, known for puns, had a broad-brush style and was
often late for meetings; Plouffe, an avid runner, favors dry
humor and a more technocratic approach, and arrives on time.
Emanuel’s profane, frenetic nature has been replaced by Daley’s
introverted and calibrated ways. If the Emanuel-Axelrod West
Wing had more character, emotion and cursing, the Plouffe-Daley
regime is more corporate, sterile and stoic, officials say.  Closing Doors  Office habits are also different, even though Daley and
Plouffe occupy those of their predecessors. Plouffe’s is closest
to the  Oval Office  and Daley’s office is the largest, with its
own outdoor patio.  The current chief of staff’s door is usually closed, while
Emanuel’s was mostly open, which made him more accessible to
staff and easily consulted for last-minute meetings. Plouffe and
Daley are less chatty, avoid casual conversation and interact
with far fewer people in the building, leaving some aides
wondering where they stand with the new advisers.  “Our styles are just different,” Daley said at a Feb. 2
Bloomberg Breakfast in  Washington . “Rahm very much needed to do
it all. And I don’t have such a need.”  Neither Emanuel nor Axelrod was known for organizational
prowess, which was a vacuum that needed to be filled, current
and former officials said. While aides say they miss the soul
the  West Wing  had, the structure Plouffe and Daley provide is
welcomed. It was something  Pete Rouse , interim chief of staff
after Emanuel, said was needed, in a series of recommendations
to Obama on a reorganization plan Rouse spearheaded.  Subjugating Egos  “Temperamentally, they’re a great pairing,” said Axelrod.
“They’re both sensible down-to-earth, unpretentious, and very,
very smart people. And they’re willing to subjugate their own
egos to the greater good.”  To be sure, discipline and organization can only serve the
president so much in the face of distracting and unforeseen
events, like the unfolding unrest in the Middle East.  “It’s not simply a question of making the trains run on
time and reducing leaks and freelancing,” said William Galston,
a scholar at the Washington-based  Brookings Institution  and
former domestic-policy adviser to President  Bill Clinton . “If
you have a news environment that’s dominated for three weeks by
the riveting events in  Egypt , the ability of a White House to do
anything except react to those events is very limited.”  Both Daley and Plouffe declined to comment for this
article.  Smaller Meetings  Under their leadership, meetings are shorter, more focused
and fewer people are invited. While there used to be a senior
advisers’ meeting at 7:30 a.m. every day followed by a senior
staff session at 8:30 a.m., the latter is now only held on
Fridays.  During preparations for the State of the Union address, the
process for interest groups and agencies plugging their issues
was streamlined. If it didn’t fit with the White House’s new
“Win the Future” theme, it didn’t make it into the speech, an
official said. Daley put a structure in place that prevented
groups from lobbying up the chain of command, as they had done
in years past, sometimes to the president himself.  While Daley isn’t particularly detail-oriented, Plouffe
drives strategy and message across the communications, outreach
and new media offices. He monitors press releases to make sure
they include the “Win the Future” mantra.  Too Far  Officials conceded they might have taken the mandate a
little too far when a Feb. 4  press release  was titled, “Obama
Administration Celebrates Black History by Winning the Future.”  A campaign-style media strategy and travel schedule is
beginning to take shape as well. Obama sat for interviews Feb.
16 with local networks in the swing states of  Ohio , Virginia and  Wisconsin  to discuss his fiscal 2012 budget.  The White House announced Obama would be traveling to  Cleveland  on Feb. 22 to convene a “Winning the Future” forum
on small business by distributing an article from the Plain
Dealer newspaper.  While Obama sought to address criticism that his West Wing
was too insular, under Plouffe and Daley there are fewer
advisers who can bypass gatekeepers and go straight to the
president. Confidantes  Valerie Jarrett  and Rouse still have
direct lines to the Oval Office, though the new press secretary,
Jay Carney, doesn’t have the history with Obama that allowed
predecessor  Robert Gibbs  to do so.  Shoveling Snow  For all the seriousness of purpose in the new White House,
there are still times when comedy is appreciated.  Throughout Obama’s hour-long press conference Feb. 15,
Plouffe and Daley stood next to each other in the corner by the
exit. Daley’s hands were clasped below his waist, Plouffe’s arms
crossed in front of him, and both were straight-faced the entire
time -- save one moment.  About 50 minutes in, Pfeiffer handed his BlackBerry to
Plouffe and Daley who looked at the screen and laughed. It was a
headline that had just crossed from the  Associated Press :  “Obama Praises  Rahm Emanuel  for Shoveling Snow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 Jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  