-- 
Polish Output Growth Tops Median Estimate in January; Rate Increase Eyed

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-02-18T13:45:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/polish-output-growth-tops-median-estimate-in-january-rate-increase-eyed.html
Polish industrial output rose faster
than expected in January on surging exports, which may encourage
companies to increase production and add jobs, supporting
expectations of an interest-rate increase next month.  Industrial output advanced an annual 10.3 percent, slowed
from 11.4 percent the previous month, the  Central Statistical
Office  said today. The result was the third month of double-
digit output growth and exceeded the median estimate of 9.8
percent in a Bloomberg survey of 22 economists. Production
declined 6.4 percent on the month.  “Industrial output growth, combined with brisk  job
creation , solid wages and surging inflation make a March rate
increase very, very likely,” economists at BRE Bank in Warsaw
wrote in a research note today.  New orders rolled in to Polish manufacturers at the fastest
pace since May 2004, while export orders posted the biggest jump
on record, according the January purchasing managers’ index
survey by  Markit Economics . The growth is being driven by demand
from fast-growing economies such as  China  for exports from
German firms, to which Polish companies supply components.
German investor confidence rose for a fourth month in February,
the ZEW Center for European Economic Research said on Feb. 15.  Employment Boost  Polish companies boosted employment by 3.8 percent in
January, the fastest annual growth since September 2008, while
wages grew by some 5 percent for the second month in a row. Both
indicators spurred expectations the central bank will lift
borrowing costs as early as next month to curb inflation after
the  consumer price index  exceeded the central bank’s tolerance
in January for the first time in 16 months.  Last month, the  Narodowy Bank Polski  raised borrowing costs
for the first time since June 2008, increasing the benchmark
seven-day rate to 3.75 percent from a record-low 3.5 percent.  Producer prices, an early indicator of inflationary trends,
grew 6.2 percent in January from the year before, matching
December’s annual rate, which was the highest in at least six
years. That compares with the 6.3 percent median forecast by 19
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Producer prices rose 0.4
percent on the month.  The zloty weakened to 3.9181 per euro at 2:32 p.m. in
Warsaw from 3.9154 before the release, down 0.4 percent on the
day. The three-month forward agreement investors use to bet on
interest-rate changes fell to traded at 4.67 percent, or 54
basis points above the 3-month Warsaw Interbank offered rate,
showing investors anticipate further monetary tightening.  The central bank will increase domestic borrowing costs in
2011 by another 50 basis points, or a half percentage point,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 25
economists and analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at  