-- 
Posco to Increase Cost-Cutting on Ore, Coal Prices

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-02-18T02:17:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/posco-to-increase-cost-cutting-on-ore-coal-prices-update1-.html
  Posco , the world’s third-biggest
steelmaker by output, and its units raised their cost-cutting
target for this year by 20 percent to sustain profits amid
rising  iron ore  and coal prices.  The group aims to cut overall costs by 2.4 trillion won
($2.2 billion) this year from a previous target of 2 trillion
won in an effort to “improve competitiveness,” Chung Jae Woong,
a spokesman for Pohang, South Korea-based Posco, said by phone
today, confirming an earlier Korea Economic Daily report.  “That’s part of Posco’s efforts to sustain stable profits
given that raw material costs are rising, while it’s not easy
for them to pass on cost gains to customers,” said Kim Gyung
Jung, an analyst with Eugene Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul .  Posco, which underperformed the local benchmark stock index
last year, in January reported a worse-than-expected drop in
fourth-quarter profit after raw material costs gained and demand
from builders and home-appliance makers waned. Japan’s  Nippon
Steel Corp . and Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. said Feb. 3 they
plan to combine to cut costs.  Posco,  Asia ’s biggest steelmaker by market value followed
by Nippon Steel, declined 21 percent last year, compared with a
22 percent gain in the benchmark  Kospi index . The stock is
almost unchanged this year, while  ArcelorMittal , the world’s
biggest maker of the metal, rose 3.1 percent and Nippon Steel
gained 4.5 percent. Posco shares fell 0.3 percent to 486,500 won
at 9:39 a.m. in Seoul trading, while Kospi was up 0.7 percent.  Iron Ore, Coal  Iron ore prices almost doubled from the first quarter to
the end of 2010, while coking-coal costs gained 38 percent, HSBC
Holdings Plc said. Coal has risen since floods disrupted mining
in the northeast of  Australia , the biggest exporter.  The price of iron ore will average 21 percent higher this
year and may jump to a record should anticipated supply growth
be curbed, according to Credit Suisse Group AG on Jan. 7. Iron
ore and coking coal are the two main ingredients for making
steel.  Posco’s operating profit margin dropped to 7.1 percent in
the fourth quarter ended Dec. 31 from 13 percent in the third
quarter and 23 percent in the second quarter, according to
Posco’s presentation material on 2010 earnings on Jan. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  