-- 
Pound Strengthens on Rate Rise Speculation as January Retail Sales Surge

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-02-18T15:32:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/pound-strengthens-on-interest-rate-speculation-before-retail-sales-data.html
The pound reached a two-week high
against the dollar after U.K. retail sales surged last month by
almost four times the amount forecast by economists, adding to
signs the Bank of England has room to raise  interest rates .  Sterling also advanced against the euro amid speculation
the central bank will act to curb inflation. Retail sales rose
1.9 percent in January, compared with a revised drop of 1.4
percent the previous month, the  Office for National Statistics 
said today in London. The gain was the biggest since February
2010 and exceeded the 0.5 percent median forecast of 22
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Gilts fell.  “It seems inevitable that rates will need to go up in the
next two quarters,” said Chris Huddleston, a trader at Investec
Bank Plc in London. “The retail data adds to that argument. The
market is moving to price in further gains in sterling.”  The pound rose as much as 0.5 percent to $1.6247, the
strongest intraday level since Feb. 3, before trading at $1.6219
at 3:30 p.m. in  London . Britain’s currency strengthened 0.1
percent versus the euro to 84.04 pence.  The yield on the 10-year gilt increased four basis points
to 3.80 percent. Two-year note yields, typically more sensitive
to interest-rate expectations, rose seven basis points to 1.53
percent.  Pressure on the Bank of England to raise its key rate from
a record low of 0.5 percent increased this week after a Feb. 15
report showed inflation accelerated to double the central bank’s
2 percent target. Consumer-price growth accelerated to 4 percent
in January, forcing central bank Governor Mervyn King to write a
fifth letter to explain the monetary-policy stance.  Hawkish Support  Sterling surged yesterday after policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said in a speech in London that the central bank should
raise rates to boost the pound as a means of curbing inflation.
King dismissed the spurt in inflation in his letter to Osborne,
saying raising rates quickly would hurt the economy, which
unexpectedly shrank by 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter.  “There is a feeling in the market that the hawkish camp is
trying to get more support, and that King’s argument that
inflation will be temporary is losing more and more appeal,”
said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of foreign-exchange strategy in  Frankfurt  at Commerzbank AG. “There are good arguments for
joining the hawks. The risk is that when inflation is so high
above your target, it risks causing second-round effects that
can push inflation higher on a more permanent basis.”  Money markets signal the  Bank of England  may boost its  bank
rate  by about 75 basis points by year-end, according to the
Sterling Overnight Interbank Average, or Sonia, Tullett Prebon
Plc data shows. The implied yield on the December short-sterling
futures contract rose eight basis points to 1.74 percent,
indicating traders raised bets that borrowing costs will rise.  Citigroup Inc. today raised its expectations for rate
increases, saying the Bank of England is likely to lift its main
rate three times this year, after previously predicting two
increases. The timing of the first rate increase is
“uncertain” though it may occur as early as March, Citigroup
analysts led by  Michael Saunders , chief economist for western  Europe , wrote in a note to clients.  The bank estimates the U.K.’s benchmark rate will climb to
1.25 percent by year-end and 2.25 percent at the end of 2012.  The U.K. 10-year breakeven rate, an indication of
investors’ inflation expectations over the life of the
securities, derived from the yield gap between conventional and
index-linked bonds, was little changed at 3.18 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  