-- 
Treasuries Rise as Tension in Mideast Boosts Demand for the Safest Assets

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-02-18T22:39:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/treasuries-fall-as-ecb-official-says-interest-rate-increase-may-be-needed.html
Treasuries rose, with two-year notes
climbing for a second day, on reports that  Egypt  approved
passage of two warships through the Suez Canel, fueling
speculation that Mideast tension will boost demand for the
safest assets.  Treasuries earlier fell after a European Central Bank
official said it may need to raise  interest rates  as global
inflation pressures mount while the  Federal Reserve  maintains
its target of almost-zero short-term rates. The Fed bought $6.7
billion of Treasuries maturing from January 2014 to October 2014
today as part of its efforts to sustain the economic expansion.
The Treasury plans to sell $99 billion of debt next week.  “We are seeing a little bit of a flight-to-quality
response to the Middle Eastern situation as no one wants to be
short going into a long weekend that could expose the market to
alot of event risk,” said  Thomas Tucci , managing director and
head of rates trading at Royal Bank of Canada in New York, one
of 20 firms that trade directly with the Fed.  Two-year Treasury yields fell two basis points to 0.75
percent at 5:08 p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market
Data. The price of the 0.625 percent securities maturing in
January 2013 rose 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 of face value, to
99 24/32. Ten-year yields were little changed at 3.58 percent
after reaching as much as 3.63 percent.  Bond Yields  Thirty-year bond yields rose two basis points to 4.68
percent. German bonds slumped, with the two-year German yield,
typically most sensitive to rate expectations, climbing as much
as nine basis points.  ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said the
“degree of accommodation of monetary policy has to be monitored
and, if needed, corrected.” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
speech text in Paris didn’t address the U.S. monetary policy
that central bank policy makers maintained last month along with
plans to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June.  Bernanke’s speech at the Group of 20 meetings of central
bankers and finance ministers cited “concerns” that monetary
easing in advanced economies is fueling capital flows to
emerging markets, spurring inflation and causing asset-price
bubbles.  “The ECB may raise rates as pricing pressures mount,”
said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital
Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There’s an issue with
what’s going on in Europe and the bearish implications for the
short-end of the curve if  Europe  gets closer to increasing their
target rate.”  Yield Spread  The difference between yields on two-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, which tracks the
outlook for consumer prices over the life of the debt, expanded
to 2 percentage points, the widest gap since July 2008.  The consumer-price index increased 0.4 percent in January,
exceeding the 0.3 percent median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News, figures from the Labor Department showed
yesterday. Year-on-year inflation accelerated to 1.6 percent,
the highest since May.  “The higher-than-expected inflation numbers has given the
front end of the TIPS market a lift as shorter dated TIPS are
more sensitive to moves in CPI and has more carry,” said Alex Li, an interest-rate strategist in  New York  at Deutsche Bank AG,
one of the 20 primary dealers who trade with the Fed.  Risk Aversion  Treasuries may benefit from an increase in risk aversion
because plans to bolster the European Union rescue facility are
likely to disappoint investors,  Bayerische Landesbank  said.  Ten-year yields may reach 3.30 percent, according to Marius
Daheim, a senior fixed-income strategist at the Munich-based
bank. EU leaders have given themselves until March 25 to craft
what German Chancellor Angela Merkel called a “comprehensive”
package to address the sovereign-debt crisis.  Egypt approved a request from  Iran  to send two naval ships
through the Suez Canal on their way to  Syria , a move that has
ratcheted up Middle East tensions and driven  oil prices  higher
as  Israel  called it a “provocation.”  The U.S. plans to sell $35 billion in two-year notes on
Feb. 22, the same amount of five-year debt the following day and
$29 billion in seven-year securities on Feb. 24.  Treasuries have handed investors a 1 percent loss in 2011,
while inflation-linked Treasuries decreased of 1.2 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  