-- 
Treasury Bill Rates Close to Eight-Month Lows as Unrest Spurs Haven Demand

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-02-18T18:20:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/treasury-bill-rates-close-to-eight-month-lows-as-unrest-spurs-haven-demand.html
Three-month Treasury bill rates are
close to the lowest levels in eight months as unrest in the
Middle East bolsters the refuge appeal of the securities while
investors ponder the direction of longer-maturity debt yields.  The rate on  U.S. government debt  maturing in three months
traded at 0.0862 percent after slipping to 0.0821 percent
yesterday, the lowest level since June 17. One-month bill rates
were little changed at 0.0659 percent.  “Anytime there is civil unrest anywhere people will flock
to Treasury bills,” said  Michael Franzese , head of Treasury
trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “Also
investors feel they can wait out in bills the uncertainty with
regard to what is going on with Federal Reserve monetary policy
and the direction of long-term Treasury yields.”  Fed officials differed last month over whether more signs
of strength in the U.S. recovery would warrant reducing or
slowing record monetary stimulus even as they affirmed
disappointment with job growth, the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said in minutes of its Jan. 25-26 meeting released
this week.  Governments in the Middle East have been cracking down on
pro-democracy activists as uprisings that toppled autocratic
leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  spread to  Libya ,  Iran ,  Algeria  and  Yemen . Clashes in Bahrain, a close Saudi ally, increased as
security forces used tear gas against protesters, gunfire was
heard and ambulances were on the streets of the capital.  Supplementary Financing Program  Buttressing the bill sector since early February is a
decline in supply after the Treasury began to allow its 56-day
Supplementary Financing Program bills to roll off as they mature
as part of their plan to cut the amount outstanding from $200
billion to $5 billion by around the end of March. The Treasury
announced on Jan. 27 that it was reducing its borrowing on
behalf of the Fed because of concern the federal debt limit
won’t be extended.  The balance in the Treasury’s Supplementary Financing
Account began to decline as of Feb. 3 as outstanding so-called
SFP bills matured and were not rolled over. When the Treasury
sells bills at the Fed’s behest through the SFP, it drains
reserves from the banking system and makes the central bank’s
job of controlling  interest rates  easier.  The Fed said last year that the program, set up in 2008 in
the midst of its efforts to prop up the financial system, is
helpful to the central bank’s monetary policy goals and might be
part of future efforts to withdraw economic stimulus.  The Treasury had been maintaining the SFP through regular
auctions of 56-day bills, sold weekly at auctions of $25 billion
in securities. Maturing bills have been rolling off and will
continue to do so for eight weeks beginning Feb. 3, then the
Treasury will sell $5 billion in securities to keep the program
balance from dropping to zero.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  