-- 
Treasuries Pare Weekly Gain on Speculation U.S. Inflation Will Accelerate

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-02-18T12:26:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/treasuries-fall-as-traders-add-to-inflation-bets-after-consumer-price-gain.html
Treasuries pared their weekly gains
as traders added to bets that inflation will pick up after
reports yesterday showed U.S. consumer prices climbed and
manufacturing output increased.  The difference between yields on two-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, which tracks the
outlook for consumer prices over the life of the debt, expanded
to 1.97 percentage points, the widest gap since July 2008. Ten-
year yields were little changed as the U.S. prepared to sell $99
billion of debt in three auctions next week. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner
speak at separate events in Paris today.  “You have the strong data that is coming out and also
maybe some expectations that at some point inflation could start
to pick up,” said  Karsten Linowsky , a strategist at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “If we were in a situation where we
entered a hiking cycle the short end would rise the most and we
would see a flattening of the yield curve.”  Ten-year Treasury yields rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.59 percent at 7:18 a.m. in  New York ,
according to BGCantor Market Data, trimming their weekly
decrease to 5 basis points. The price of the 3.625 percent
security maturing in January 2021 dropped 3/32, or 94 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 9/32.  Bonds also pared weekly gains as the People’s Bank of  China 
raised its  reserve requirements  for lenders by half a percentage
point starting Feb. 24.  U.S. Debt Sale  The U.S. plans to sell $35 billion in two-year notes on
Feb. 22, the same amount of five-year debt the following day and
$29 billion in seven-year securities on Feb. 24.  The consumer-price index increased 0.4 percent in January,
exceeding the 0.3 percent median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News, figures from the Labor Department showed
yesterday. Year-on-year inflation accelerated to 1.6 percent,
the highest since May.  The inflation data “exceeded consensus expectations and it
seems to be consensus now that we have seen the lows in  core
inflation ,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income analyst at
WestLB AG in Dusseldorf,  Germany . “Inflation has become a big
topic again.”  The difference between yields on benchmark 10-year notes
and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was
little changed at 2.30 percentage points. It rose to an eight-
month high of 2.42 percentage points on Jan. 5 on bets inflation
will rise. The so called break-even rate has risen from a 15-
month low of 1.47 percentage points in August. The five-year
average is 2.09 percentage points.  Philadelphia Manufacturing  The  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  reported yesterday
that manufacturing in the region expanded at the fastest pace in
seven years this month, underscoring the contribution of
factories to U.S. growth.  The Citigroup U.S. Economic Surprise Index rose to 72.1
yesterday, its highest level since September 2008, indicating
U.S. economic data are stronger than analyst estimates by the
most in 29 months.  Group of 20 policy makers, who meet today in Paris, are at
odds over global economic imbalances as higher inflation ripples
from emerging markets to advanced economies. Bernanke is set to
speak on global imbalances and financial stability at 2 p.m.
Paris time.  German Inflation  German producer prices rose at the fastest pace in more
than two years last month, adding to signs that inflation is
gathering pace globally. Prices jumped 1.2 percent from
December, the Federal Statistics Office said today, twice the
median forecast of 0.6 percent.  “It seems inevitable that inflation will rise in the
coming months, as most of the lead indicators suggest this,”
London-based Deutsche Bank AG strategists  Jim Reid  and Colin Tan
wrote in a note to investors today. “How quickly it rises will
be a key determinant of the mood of markets.”  Treasuries still headed for a weekly gain after advancing
yesterday as protests in the Middle East bolstered demand for
the relative safety of government debt. Bahrain’s army fired
teargas shells, buckshot and rubber bullets to quell an uprising
by pro-democracy protesters as unrest spread across the region.  “Given some of the safe-haven concerns and what’s going on
in the Middle East, we’re looking at a positive week,” said  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy at Lloyds Bank Corporate
Markets in London. “It’s not really justified by the macro
data, which have been on the firm side.”  Fed Purchases  The  Federal Reserve  is scheduled to buy $5 billion to
$7 billion of Treasuries maturing from August 2013 to February
2015 today as part of its efforts to sustain the economic
expansion. The central bank announced in November it would pump
$600 billion into the economy via debt purchases by June 30. Its
benchmark Fed funds rate has been near zero since December 2008.  Bond bulls say they question whether the current pace of
economic growth, 3.2 percent in the fourth quarter of last year,
can continue once the Fed stops buying Treasuries.  “Yields will reach their high for the year in the first
quarter,” said Sungjin Park, chief debt investment officer in  Seoul  at Samsung Asset Management Co., the  South Korea ’s largest
private bond investor. “It won’t be easy to achieve a robust
recovery.”  Park, who oversees the equivalent of $55.7 billion in debt,
said he is favoring longer-term Treasuries.  Treasuries have handed investors a 1 percent loss so far
this year, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. The
MSCI All Country World Index of stocks has returned 5.1 percent
in the period.  Gross-domestic-product growth will quicken to 3.2 percent
in 2011 from 2.9 percent for all of 2010, according to a
Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies. By contrast
the euro region will expand at a rate of 1.6 percent and the
U.K. at 1.9 percent this year, the surveys show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  