-- 
Reliance Cuts Exports to Cash In on Demand in India

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-02-18T11:19:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/reliance-cuts-exports-to-cash-in-on-demand-in-indian-market.html
  Reliance Industries Ltd .,  India ’s
largest company by market value, cut fuel exports by 50 percent
in the first half of this month, selling domestically to profit
from shortages during plant maintenance by rivals.  The refiner, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ,
reduced overseas shipments of diesel and gasoline from its
facility in western India to about 385,000 metric tons from
730,000 tons in the same period a month earlier, according to
data compiled from Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of
the world’s biggest shipbroker.  The company is increasing sales to India’s government-
controlled refiners such as Indian Oil Corp. and Bharat
Petroleum Corp., which in turn market the products to consumers.
State refiners have to sell most fuels at capped prices because
of rules aimed at curbing inflation.  “There are no freight costs involved if Reliance sells
within the country,” said  Alok Deshpande , an oil and gas
analyst at Mumbai-based Elara Securities. “That’s a price
advantage for the refiner.”  Increased demand in India as vehicle sales gain is pushing
Reliance to focus on the domestic market, he said. Gasoline
consumption in Asia’s second-fastest growing major economy may
grow 7 percent to 350,000 barrels a day in February and March
2011, industry consultant JBC Energy said in a note on Jan. 24.  Manoj Warrier, a spokesman for Reliance in Mumbai, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Reliance shares dropped 1.9 percent to 935.55 rupees in
Mumbai today. The benchmark Sensitive Index fell 1.6 percent.  Market Window  Reliance, owner of the world’s largest refining facility,
reduced overseas gasoline shipments by 25 percent to at least
185,000 tons from its refineries in Jamnagar in western India,
the data show. Diesel shipments fell 75 percent to 70,000 tons
during the first half of this month.  State refiners have historically scheduled shutdowns at
their facilities during the first and second quarter of the
year. None of them has disclosed scheduled maintenance for 2011
though some may be preparing by stocking up.  Indian Oil, the country’s biggest refiner by capacity, is
seeking two cargoes of gasoil, or diesel, for loading in March
to western India, three people who received the tender document
said on Feb. 17.  “There’s a window in the market for Reliance when domestic
refiners go into some maintenance come April,”  Praveen Kumar ,
the Singapore-based head of South Asia oil and gas at
consultancy FACTS Global Energy, said by telephone on Feb. 16.  All figures from  Clarkson  are for single-voyage bookings
and exclude long-term charters. Shipbrokers aren’t compelled to
report charters so data capture can vary from month to month.  FCC Shutdown  Reliance operates two refineries that can process a
combined 1.24 million barrels a day of oil, or about 1.6 percent
of global refining capacity, according to the company’s  website .
It exports mainly to the Middle East,  Africa  and  Singapore ,
according to the data from Clarkson.  Exports from its plants have also declined because of its
maintenance. Reliance planned to shut a fluid catalytic cracker
at one of its refineries for about five weeks, starting Feb. 7,
the company said on Feb. 3. The unit is part of Reliance’s
older, 660,000 barrel-a-day refinery in western Gujarat state.
The Mumbai-based company also has a newer, 580,000 barrel-a-day
plant adjacent to the older refinery.  The maintenance will reduce exports and may help drive up
gasoline prices, Vienna-based JBC Energy said in a note Jan. 31.  “The FCC shutdown may also be having an effect on exports,
but its impact will be felt more only in March,” FACTS Global’s
Kumar said.  Diesel Demand  Reliance in January doubled shipments to the highest in
five months, driven by diesel.  The refiner exported products from its refineries, capable
of processing heavy grades of crude oil, to destinations
including  Europe , Africa and the  United Arab Emirates  during the
first half of this month, the data show.    Royal Dutch Shell Plc  chartered the Pioneer Express to
transport 35,000 tons of gasoline from Sikka to  South Africa  in
mid February, according to the data. The vessel was last seen
off the coast of Gujarat near Jamnagar, according to ship
transmissions captured by AISLive on Bloomberg.  BP Plc hired Gulf Cobalt to ship 65,000 tons of  jet fuel 
from Sikka to Europe during the first half of this month, the
data show. The ship was last seen heading to the port of Sikka,
according to the vessel-tracking data on Bloomberg.  West-Coast Shipments  At least 1.6 million tons of fuel products left India’s
west coast for overseas in the first 15 days of February,
compared with 1.2 million tons in the same period last month.
Indian refiners exported at least 390,000 tons of naphtha in the
period, up from 215,000 tons last month, the data show.  State-run refiners export mainly naphtha, used to make
chemicals and gasoline, because they sell most of their other
products in the domestic market.  The  International Energy Agency  raised its 2011 forecast
for global crude oil demand for a fifth month on Feb. 10, driven
by developing nations in  Asia  and signs of recovery in  North
America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  