-- 
RIM Hires Ex-Prime Minister Aide Amid Service Threats

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-02-18T21:24:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/rim-hires-ex-prime-minister-aide-cameron-as-foreign-policy-threats-grow.html
  Research In Motion Ltd . hired Mark
Cameron, a former aide to Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper, to be director of global public policy amid growing
government scrutiny of the BlackBerry maker’s services.  Cameron, who was director of policy and research in the
Prime Minister’s Office until 2008, began working for the
Waterloo, Ontario-based company in January, according to his
page on the professional-networking site  LinkedIn Corp . Marisa Conway, a RIM spokeswoman, confirmed his hiring.  Telecommunications regulators in several countries have
threatened to shut down BlackBerry services over concerns its
secure messaging could be used to foment social unrest or
coordinate terrorist attacks.  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab
Emirates  contemplated such steps last year.  Citing similar concerns, Indian authorities had set a
deadline of Jan. 31 for RIM to allow the country’s security
agencies to monitor BlackBerry service or face a possible
shutdown. On Feb. 4, the authorities said they would give RIM
more time to comply.  The government actions come as RIM is boosting growth
beyond its traditional markets. Sales outside  Canada , the U.S.
and U.K. more than doubled to $2.42 billion last quarter from a
year earlier.  Overseas Trips  Chief Executive Officer Jim Balsillie has made at least one
trip to the Gulf region in the past year and Robert Crow, RIM’s
vice president of industry, government and university relations,
has made multiple trips to  India  to discuss the issue with
authorities there.  Crow told reporters in  New Delhi  last month that doubts
about RIM’s ability to operate in the world’s second-most-
populous nation have hurt India’s reputation “as a safe place
to do investment” and made corporate customers “nervous.”  RIM hired  David Paterson , a former head of government
relations at General Motors Co.’s Canadian unit, in September to
become vice-president, government relations and public policy.  The company’s stock rose 17 cents to $69.86 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
climbed 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net 
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  