-- 
Ringgit Has Weekly Gain as Growth Beat Forecasts; Bonds Climb

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-02-18T10:09:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/ringgit-headed-for-weekly-gain-before-economic-growth-data.html
The ringgit gained this week as
improving economic data in  Malaysia ’s biggest export markets
spurred speculation that the nation would revise its growth
forecast upwards. The Southeast Asia nation’s central bank
announced better-than-expected growth of 4.8 percent in the
fourth quarter.  The currency traded at its strongest level in a week after
the central bank said the Southeast Asian economy grew last year
grew at the fastest pace since 2000. Reports this week showed
China’s January imports surged by the most since March, while
Singapore yesterday predicted stronger exports in 2011 and said
there was “some upside potential” to its growth forecast.
Singapore and  China  are Malaysia’s two biggest export markets.
Bond prices rose.  “I would expect to see some upward revisions to GDP
numbers going forward,” Calbert Loh, head of treasury at
Bangkok Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur , said before the report.
“There is momentum to the ringgit and a regional currency
appreciation trend.”  The ringgit strengthened 0.7 percent for the week to 3.0340
per dollar as of 5:20 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 3.0290 on Feb. 4, the highest
level since October 1997. The ringgit may reach 3 against the
dollar this year, Loh said.  Malaysia’s economy expanded 4.8 percent last quarter versus
5.3 percent in the preceding three months,  Bank Negara Malaysia 
said in a statement. The median forecast was 4.6 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Gross domestic product grew 7.2 percent in 2010, following
a 1.7 percent contraction in 2009, the central bank said. The
government forecast in October that GDP would increase between 5
percent and 6 percent this year.  Bond Advance  “This performance is better than expected and should carry
through into the first quarter this year,” said Wan Suhaimi
Saidi, an economist at Kenanga Investment Bank Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur. “It’s leaning toward the top-end of my growth
forecast.”  The currency earlier extended gains after  Singapore 
signaled it will allow more currency appreciation to tackle
inflation, after saying inflation will quicken this year to
between 3 percent and 4 percent. Its previous forecast was for 2
percent to 3 percent gain.  “Using the  exchange rate  to offset sudden spikes in
prices, such as what we have seen in  oil prices  over the last
six months, would require a sharp appreciation of the  Singapore
dollar ,” Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam said in his
budget speech in parliament today.    Government bonds  advanced as the treasury prepares to sell
more debt later this month. The government is scheduled to
auction Shariah-compliant bonds maturing in August 2018,
according to its sale calendar.  The yield on the 3.835 percent note due September 2017
declined 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage points, over the
week to 3.42 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia. The price
increased 0.11, or 1.1 ringgit per 1,000 ringgit face amount, to
101.71.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 