-- 
Rio de Janeiro Prime Office Rents Overtake New York Rates for First Time

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-02-18T12:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/rio-de-janeiro-office-rents-overtake-new-york-for-first-time-study-finds.html
New York lost its crown as the most
expensive prime office market in the Americas, overtaken for the
first time by  Rio de Janeiro , according to a study by real
estate adviser Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  The annual cost of renting a square foot of prime office
space in the Brazilian city rose 47 percent last year to $120,
or $5 more than in Midtown Manhattan, the  broker  said in a
statement today. Rio de Janeiro advanced to fourth from 13th in
a global ranking of prime office markets, coming after  Hong
Kong ,  London  and Tokyo, Cushman said.  “Very high demand and a lack of supply” powered the gains
in Brazil’s second-largest city, Mariana Mokayad Hanania, a
research manager for the broker’s South America arm, said in the
statement.  Brazil’s economy expanded at an annual rate of 6.7 percent
in the third quarter, helped by commodity exports and rising
consumer spending.  South America  registered the highest regional
growth in the study, with a gain of 12 percent.  Hong Kong overtook London’s West End district as the
world’s most expensive location for prime offices. Rents
increased 51 percent last year to $241 a square foot as
corporations expanded and new businesses competed for a limited
amount of high quality space, Cushman & Wakefield said.  London prime rents rose 27 percent last year to $233 a
square foot, the Cushman study showed. That contrasts with an
average of 1 percent growth across  Europe .  New York advanced to fifth in the global ranking from sixth
a year ago after prime rental costs in Midtown Manhattan rose 10
percent to $115 a square foot, Cushman said.    Cushman & Wakefield  is the world’s largest privately owned
commercial real estate broker and is controlled by Italy’s
Agnelli family.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at   rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 