-- 
Rising Young Hispanics in Texas Poised to Pick Up Aging Tab

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-02-18T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/rising-young-hispanics-in-texas-poised-to-pick-up-aging-tab.html
Whites who dominated  Texas ’s
population for generations are growing older and more dependent
on the earning power and taxes of younger Hispanics, now poised
to take over as the state’s largest demographic group.  Of the 25,145,561 people counted in Texas in the 2010
Census, 37.6 percent were Hispanic and 45.3 percent were non-
Hispanic whites. Yet Hispanics disproportionately fill the ranks
of younger Texans. Hispanics comprise 48.3 percent of Texans
under the age of 18, up from 40.5 percent in 2000. The
percentage of non-Hispanic whites in the same age group fell to
33.8 percent from 42.6 percent in 2000, according to census data
released yesterday.  “All the institutions and services that affect children in
Texas will need to really pay attention,” said demographer  William Frey , a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington . “These people may not yet vote but they will in the
future. They’re going to be an important part of the electorate,
and this will really put an exclamation point on that.”  The data confirm Hispanics are on pace to become the
biggest ethnic group in the state by 2015, said Steve Murdock, a
former U.S. Census director who teaches sociology at Rice
University in Houston. A gap is forming, he said, between
youthful Hispanics and aging non-Hispanic whites, known
colloquially in Texas as “Anglos.”  Non-Hispanic whites now account for 68 percent of Texans 65
years and older, compared with Hispanics’ 20 percent share of
that age segment, Murdock calculates.  Two Populations  “Texas has two distinct populations now, and each of these
groups is dependent on the other,” Murdock said. “The older
Anglo generation that’s dying off has a big stake in the younger
Hispanic population, which has to pay for the roads, fire
protection and medical services the older generation needs.”  In southern border regions and particularly in Texas, the
population shift between non-Hispanic whites and Hispanics has
riveted politicians who are grappling with how to spread
education and health-care dollars between young and old, and
businesses that are keen to profit from a changing market.  Texas foreshadows population trends in the rest of the
nation, Murdock said.  Houston,  Dallas   Hispanics are now the largest ethnic bloc in the state’s
two most-populous counties, home to Houston and Dallas, Murdock
said, after reviewing the census data. Since 2000, non-Hispanic
whites in Dallas County fell to 33.1 percent from 44.3 percent
of the local population, while Hispanics increased to 38.3
percent from 29.9 percent, according to census data. Houston’s
Harris County experienced a nearly identical shift during the
same period.  One concern with the demographic swing: Hispanics tend to
earn less and are less educated than non-Hispanic whites, said
Lloyd Potter, the state’s official demographer who heads a  data
center  at the  University of Texas  at  San Antonio . That lower
education level means fewer job skills, Potter said.  The question is “whether Texas will be able to attract the
jobs it wants in the future,” Potter said. “Education is
synonymous with income.”  The future of Texas’s labor market can be seen in its 15-
to-24 year olds, the age group when most people enter the
workforce. Citing state education agency data, Murdock said that
about 43 percent of Hispanics left high school before graduating
in 2008, compared with 8.5 percent for non-Hispanic whites.  Budget Deficit  “By 2040, 30 percent of Texas households will have less
than a high-school education,” if nothing is done to boost the
graduation rates of Hispanics, Murdock said. Projecting that
into earning potential, the state’s average household income in
2040 will be $6,500 smaller than in 2000, he said.  Texas lawmakers face a budget deficit estimated as high as
$27 billion and education cutbacks are being targeted. In a
state with no income tax, the debate is shaping up as a contest
between the health-care needs of those 65 years old and older,
the segment dominated by non-Hispanic whites, versus the health
and education needs of Texans younger than 35, a group
increasingly made up of Hispanics.  Older non-Hispanic whites may have the edge, at least for
now, said Bob Stein, who teaches politics at  Rice University .
The group makes up the base of the Republican majority in Texas
and may be more inclined to push for cuts in education spending.  “Older whites no longer have children in the public
schools and don’t want to pay more property taxes for benefits,
such as education, that they do not receive,” Stein said.  ‘Kicking Grandma Out’  At the same time, older non-Hispanic whites will be more
concerned about “kicking grandma out of the nursing home,”
said Representative Craig Eiland, a Galveston Democrat, who
serves on the  Texas House  Appropriations Committee.  Non-Hispanic whites remain the biggest demographic group in
Texas and have greater income than Hispanics. Annual income per
capita for non-Hispanic whites was $27,461 in 2009 compared with
$14,646 for Hispanics, census figures show.  “Graying baby boomers need to realize that it’s in their
self-interest to invest in education to teach the necessary
skills to these young Hispanics, so they can get better-paying
jobs and we can then tax the daylights out of them to support
ourselves,” said Stephen Klineberg, a Rice University
sociologist who has studied Houston demographics for 30 years.  Hispanic Consumer  Politicians may worry about new budget demands while
companies “are going bananas over the Hispanic consumer
segment,” said Ed Rincon, an Hispanic marketing specialist
whose Dallas-based Rincon & Associates advises units of  AT&T
Inc .,  Toyota Motor Corp . and PepsiCo Inc.  “Because in spite of the poverty statistics, this group
spends a lot of money,” Rincon said.  Hispanics are more loyal to brands and retailers than their
Anglo counterparts, Rincon said his research shows. They spend
disproportionately on cars, food and fashions, and they favor
brands that appeal to young families and teenagers.  In Dallas, some grocery stores in older neighborhoods
revitalized their business by stocking shelves with goods from
Goya Foods Inc. and Mexico City-based Grupo Bimbo SAB, he said.
“They were on the verge of closing, and now they’re growing and
very healthy,” Rincon said.    Wal-Mart Stores Inc . looked to Texas to devise its strategy
to sell more baby products to Hispanics because the Hispanic
birth rate in several Texas cities already exceeds the national
average, said Gerry Loredo, director of business analytics at
Lopez Negrete Communications, an  advertising agency  in Houston.  Dr Pepper’s Strategy  He considers Texas an ideal test market for brands looking
to appeal to a diverse consumer base. Loredo’s agency has
crafted Hispanic marketing campaigns for Wal-Mart, Bank of
America Corp.,  Kraft Foods Inc . and  Dr Pepper Snapple Group Inc .  Dr Pepper Snapple was the only carbonated-beverage maker to
increase both sales volume and its share of the market between
2008 and 2010, Loredo said. Nationwide, rival soda sales
declined since 2005.  Dr Pepper attracted Hispanic teenagers in Texas with a
jingle sung in a blend of English and Spanish. The campaign has
since switched to ads with Latino rapper “Pit Bull,” who
performs in both languages and has partnered with hip-hop artist
Usher and singer Enrique Iglesias.  “They bucked the trend and targeted bi-cultural Hispanic
youth, and it worked,” Loredo said.  The 2010 Census defines Hispanic as an ethnic distinction.
People participating in the census self-identified race and
ethnicity, and the census took note of both. Race is defined as
white, black, Asian and Native America. Hispanics include people
who indicate Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Central or South
American and other Latin American origins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  