-- 
Rush Tops Oscar Role as Dog-Whispering ‘Madman’: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-02-19T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/rush-tops-oscar-role-as-dog-whispering-madman-jeremy-gerard.html
  Geoffrey Rush ’s command of English
can be appreciated in his Oscar-nominated performance in “The
King’s Speech.”  To see his impeccable impersonations of an unctuous
cricket, a tea-swilling cow and a food-crazed lapdog, you’ll
have to make your way to the  Brooklyn Academy of Music , where
he’s giving a towering performance in Nikolai Gogol’s acid-black
comedy, “Diary of a Madman.”  Rush’s crazed nobody of a civil servant stops mid-sentence
to produce the insect’s sound. Fluttering tendril-like fingers,
he takes his time, losing himself in a brief, musical reverie of
barely audible cricket-speak before snapping back to what passes
for reality in the transfixing tale.  Gogol’s satirical novella about the unraveling of a “clerk
of the ninth grade” in czarist  Russia  unfolds as a harrowing
descent from bellicose anonymity into bug-eyed, delusional
schizophrenia.  Poprishchin (Rush) is a paper pusher and quill sharpener
living in a filthy garret. At first, he’s fine company, railing
against the unseen landlady and bantering with his mostly
uncomprehending Finnish servant girl Tuovi (Yael Stone, a
brilliant natterer and physical comedienne) about French fashion
hegemony and the conspiracy of “Mohammedans” to take over the
world. At times, it’s hard to believe Gogol wrote this nearly
two centuries ago.  Speak, Dog  Starving for want of food, warmth, acknowledgment, he
stalks the beautiful daughter of his bureaucrat boss.
Eventually, he converses with her dog in an effort to learn her
mistress’s secrets.  In blue eye shadow and red lipstick, bewigged with a shock
of red hair like a character out of Dr. Seuss, Rush is a
miserable clown. Poprishchin finally steals the newspapers
lining Fifi’s quarters to read her intimate “letters” to
another dog. What begins as a loopy comic interlude quickly
careens into hallucinogenic craziness.  Two musicians, Paul Cutlan and Erkki Veltheim, abet the
narrative on guitar, saxophone, violin, percussion, gong and
other instruments as Poprishchin writhes in a tightening knot of
poverty, fantasy and uselessness. Convinced he is the king of  Spain , he rules only a squalid asylum for the insane.  Adapted by David Holman (with Rush and Belvoir company
director Neil Armfield), “Madman” finds perfect squalor in
Catherine Martin’s dingy sky-lit setting, drenched in shadow and
light by designer Mark Shelton. The grimy tatters -- transformed
at one point into a royal robe that captures the totality of
Poprishchin’s disconnect -- are by Tess Schofield. But this
deranged king’s mind-snapped speech belongs essentially to Rush,
who is not one to rest on his laurels, royal or otherwise.  Through March 12 at Bam’s Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton St.,  Brooklyn . Information: +1-718-636-4100;  http://www.bam.org 
Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 