-- 
RTS Stock-Index Futures Decline as China Moves to Cool Growth

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-02-20T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/russia-s-rts-stock-index-futures-gain-as-oil-rises-in-new-york.html
Russia’s RTS stock-index futures
fell after  China  took further steps to cool its economy and oil,
Russia’s main export earner, fell in New York.  Futures on the RTS Index expiring in March sank 0.1 percent
to 184,540 at the close of trading in New York on Feb. 18,
signaling stocks may decline for a third session in Moscow
today. The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, retreated 0.6 percent. Futures on OAO
Lukoil, the country’s second-biggest oil producer, fell 0.1
percent, as did contracts on OAO Gazprom, the natural-gas export
monopoly.  “If Chinese policies damp commodities demand, there will
be an impact on Russian exporters, and therefore on equity
markets,” Chris Osborne, chief executive officer of Troika
Dialog USA, a unit of  Russia ’s oldest investment bank, said in
an e-mail.  China’s central bank raised reserve requirements for
lenders for the second time this year to counter inflation and
curb property-price gains. Bank reserve ratios will increase
half a percentage point starting Feb. 24, the People’s Bank of
China said on its website in a one-sentence statement. The move
came 10 days after China raised benchmark  interest rates .  Crude for March delivery fell for the first time in three
days on Feb. 18, slipping 16 cents to settle at $86.20 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Brent crude  for April
settlement slipped 7 cents to $102.52 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London .  The Micex Index retreated 0.2 percent to 1,690.11 at the
close of trade in Moscow on Feb. 18. OAO Norilsk Nickel,
Russia’s largest mining company, decreased 1.7 percent. VTB
Group, the nation’s second-biggest lender, slid 1.7 percent.
Federal Grid Co., Russia’s monopoly for high-voltage power
transmission, fell 1 percent.  Russian equity funds recorded an inflow of capital for the
12th straight week in the five days ended Feb. 16, according to
data from researcher EPFR Global released Feb. 18. Investors are
betting on gains in the country’s stocks as oil prices climb and
because of cheap valuations, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  