-- 
Russia Stocks Drop 4th Day After China Lifts Bank Reserve Rate

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-02-18T11:28:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/russia-stocks-drop-4th-day-after-china-lifts-bank-reserve-rate.html
Russian stocks dropped for the
fourth day this week as metals slid after  China , the world’s
biggest consumer, raised banks’ reserve requirements to counter
inflation and curb real-estate price growth.  The Micex Index fell 0.5 percent to 1,683.97 by 2:01 p.m.
in Moscow and headed for its second weekly decline. OAO Norilsk
Nickel, Russia’s largest mining company, decreased 1.5 percent.
VTB Group, the nation’s second-biggest lender, slid 1.6 percent.
Federal Grid Co., Russia’s monopoly for high-voltage power
transmission, fell 2.9 percent.  Bank reserve ratios will increase half a percentage point
starting Feb. 24, the People’s Bank of China said on its website
today in a one-sentence statement. Today’s move came 10 days
after China raised  interest rates  and is the second increase so
far this year.  “Commodities will retreat as a reaction to this,” Ovanes Oganisian, a strategist at  Renaissance Capital , said by phone.
“A correction will continue if we see more rate hikes from
China to cool down inflation.”  Copper for three-month delivery fell by more than 2 percent
this week on the London Metal Exchange. The contract dropped 0.8
percent to $9,730 a metric ton. Tin and nickel also slumped,
while lead and zinc advanced.  Brent for April settlement rose as escalating protests in
Bahrain and  Libya  fueled concern that supplies from oil-
producing nations may be disrupted.  Russia-focused equity funds had inflows for a fifth
consecutive week, the only major emerging market to receive
money, UralSib Financial Corp. said, citing EPFR Global data.  ‘Only Positive’  Funds investing in Russian shares received $169 million in
the week ended Feb. 16 compared with $267 million the week
before, UralSib said. Chinese holdings had net redemptions of
$295 million, while $252 million and $154 million was taken from
Brazil and Indian funds, respectively. Turkey funds had outflows
of $40 million.    Russia  is still the only positive in a sinking asset
class,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib, wrote in an
e-mailed note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  