-- 
Senate Deficit ‘Gang’ Tests Power of Bipartisan Teams

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-02-18T15:46:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/senate-deficit-gang-part-of-bipartisan-push-for-compromises.html
A half-dozen Republican and
Democratic senators are trying to forge an agreement on how to
bring down the U.S. government deficit.  Their private talks, which started with a chat on the
Senate floor last year between Democrat  Mark Warner  of  Virginia 
and Republican Saxby Chambliss of  Georgia , may serve as a
template for bipartisan pairings likely to drive much of what
gets done by Congress through the 2012 elections.  Warner, who co-founded a company that became Nextel Corp.,
now  Sprint Nextel Corp ., and Chambliss, who as a member of the
 Armed Services Committee  has promoted defense spending, are
among a handful of senators working to turn the recommendations
of President Barack Obama’s deficit commission into a
legislative package of tax revisions and spending cuts.  Among the approaches the group is discussing, according to
an account in the Wall Street Journal confirmed yesterday by an
aide familiar with the talks, is a trigger mechanism whereby tax
increases and spending cuts would automatically kick in if
Congress didn’t cut federal expenditures or take other steps to
rein in the deficit.  Democratic Senator Kent Conrad of  North Dakota , the Budget
Committee chairman and a member of the negotiating group, said
the lawmakers are taking “a double-track approach,” though he
declined to give details on the discussions.  “The first effort is to put together a comprehensive plan
that really does bring down the deficit and the debt,” he said,
“but we’re also considering a fail-safe mechanism to encourage
Congress to make specific decisions.”  It’s unclear whether the idea will have enough support to
be put in legislative form, much less be enacted.  Debt Limit  The federal debt is approaching $14.3 trillion, its current
legal limit. If the group can reach agreement, a looming vote in
the next few months to raise the ceiling -- which Republicans
have said they won’t support without steps to bring down the
deficit -- may offer a vehicle for enacting their plan.  Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the second-ranking
Democrat and a member of the negotiating group, said on Feb. 16.
that participants would like to find “agreement in a matter of
weeks.”  The new makeup of Congress -- with Republicans ruling the
House and Democratic Senate control reduced in November’s
election to 53-47 -- gives these and other bipartisan efforts
the chance to shape much of what happens on  Capitol Hill , and
help determine how productive Obama can be in the second half of
his term.  Little Groups, Big Issues  “Centrists of both parties are forming little groups to
try and tackle big issues,” said Jim Kessler, a former Senate
Democratic aide who co-founded  Third Way, a Washington-based
think tank . “Nothing can get to the president’s desk without a
substantial amount of Republican support, so virtually all
legislation is going to involve negotiation and compromise.
These small groups can take the lead.”  It was small talk between Chambliss and Warner last year on
the Senate floor that turned serious and led the two to team up
to focus on the deficit and debt, Chambliss said.  The pair has joined with the senators who served on Obama’s
deficit panel -- Durbin, Conrad and Republicans  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma  and Mike Crapo of  Idaho  -- to craft a legislative
proposal.  “We’re going to need folks like Saxby and I who said, ‘You
know, this is the time to check our Democrat and Republican hats
and recognize that we’ve got to get this fixed,’” Warner said
in a Bloomberg Television interview on Jan. 31. “Everybody’s
got to have some skin in the game.”  While Warner and Chambliss eschew the comparison, their
crew bears similarities to the so-called gang of 14, a group of
seven Republican and seven Democratic senators who teamed in
2005 to avert a partisan showdown over changing the rules for
blocking judicial nominees.  Divided Government  “History tells us with divided government, we can get a
lot of things done,” Chambliss said in an interview. The
government’s fiscal picture “has gotten so serious that
Republicans and Democrats alike, I think, agree that we’ve got
to solve the problem.”  Other areas are ripe for compromise, say senators in both
parties and their aides, including energy and trade policy.  Independent Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of  Connecticut , who
caucuses with Democrats, has teamed with Republican Senator Rob Portman of  Ohio , director of the White House Office of
Management and Budget under former President  George W. Bush , on
legislation to reinstate trade negotiating authority for the
Obama administration. The bill would express Congress’s support
for passing pending trade agreements with  South Korea , Colombia
and Panama.  ‘Find Reason’  “People who haven’t traditionally worked together will
find reason to work together,” said Democratic Sen.  Ben Nelson 
of  Nebraska , a veteran of unofficial bipartisan cliques that in
past years have cut deals on taxes and other matters.  Last month, Nelson proposed doing away with the aisle that
cuts down the center of the Senate chamber, dividing Democrats
from Republicans. His idea, which hasn’t been acted upon, was
aimed at sustaining the cross-party comity that marked Obama’s
State of the Union address, when many Republicans and Democrats
broke with decades of tradition to sit together in the House
chamber.  “I’m hopeful the mood will continue. There’s common ground
to be found,” Nelson said.  Senate Democratic and Republican leaders demonstrated as
much last month when they cut a deal to limit the use of
stalling tactics, known as the filibuster, to block the
chamber’s work.  Gridlock  The new dynamic could lead to gridlock as much as
cooperation, particularly on the most politically sensitive
issues such as health care. One challenge facing dealmakers is
the reduction of their ranks in the 2010 elections.  The Senate’s roughly 15-member Democratic centrist group
lost two leaders -- Senator  Blanche Lincoln  of Arkansas,
defeated in November, and Senator Evan Bayh of  Indiana , who
retired. That has left Delaware Senator Tom Carper in charge for
now.  Senate Republicans known for reaching across the political
aisle now number only about a half-dozen, including Maine
Senators Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins, Massachusetts Senator
Scott Brown and Indiana Senator Richard Lugar. Snowe and Lugar
both face potential primary 2012 challenges from fiscally
conservative Tea Party activists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  