-- 
Senators Dump Internet ‘Kill Switch’ for Cyber-Attack Response

-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 
2011-02-18T19:37:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/senators-dump-internet-kill-switch-for-cyber-attack-response.html
The president can’t use emergency
measures to order an Internet shutdown to combat cyber attacks,
according to revised legislation introduced yesterday by three
senators.  The 2011 Cybersecurity Freedom Act -- proposed by senators  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent;  Susan Collins  of
Maine; and Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat -- is almost
identical to the legislation the senators introduced in June
with two exceptions.  The bill adds language that forbids the president from
shutting down the Internet during a national crisis. It also
permits owners of major computer systems deemed as critical
infrastructure, and therefore subject to  Homeland Security
Department  regulations, to appeal their status in federal court.  Concern about giving the president authority to shut down
the Internet generated opposition among some businesses and
consumer groups after Egypt’s President  Hosni Mubarak  blocked
that country’s Internet access to try to quell protesters. The
original bill had vague language about an Internet-kill switch
and would have faced problems passing the House, said Rep. Mike McCaul, a Republican from  Texas .  The controversies spurred the introduction of the new bill,
said Lieberman, who heads the  Senate Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs Committee . “We want to clear the air once
and for all,” he said in an e-mailed statement. “There is no
so-called ‘kill switch’ in our legislation because the very
notion is antithetical to our goal of providing precise and
targeted authorities to the president.”  Collins is the committee’s senior Republican and Carper
also is a member of the panel.  Industry Likes Provisions  Industry welcomed the two new provisions, said Larry
Clinton, the president of the  Internet Security Alliance , an
industry association in  Washington .  “The kill switch idea was a distraction in the
cybersecurity debate and brought up complexities that didn’t
need to be brought up,” said Clinton in an interview today.
“Now the committee can focus on the real issues at hand.”  Allowing companies to appeal in a federal court the
designation of their systems as critical infrastructure is one
step closer to better defining which companies should be
classified as critical infrastructure, he said.  “There’s a lot of worry among industry that the
designation of critical infrastructure is too broad and that
many businesses will be required to submit to regulations under
that definition that really shouldn’t be,” Clinton said. “I’m
not sure if the provision as-is is adequate to gain full
industry support, but it’s a step in the right direction.”  Google, Mastercard Attacked  Lawmakers are trying to craft legislation to improve U.S.
cybersecurity after several large U.S. companies reported
attacks on their  computer networks  in the past year. In March,  Google Inc . stopped censoring searches in  China  and pulled out
of the country after alleging attacks on its networks aimed at
obtaining proprietary information and personal data on human-
rights activists. In December,  Mastercard Inc . and  Visa Inc .
said their websites were attacked by supporters of Wikileaks.  Last month, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  introduced a
placeholder bill aimed at tightening cybersecurity. The
legislation, backed by the heads of seven Senate committees,
would provide incentives to companies to assess their
cybersecurity risks and safeguard their computers from attacks.
Reid is working on the details of the bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Riddell in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  