-- 
Lugar Gives Obama ‘at Best’ Mediocre Grade for Foreign Policy

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-06-18T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/senate-s-conrad-rejects-house-budget-cuts-saying-boehner-risks-shutdown.html
Republican U.S. Senator  Richard Lugar , a onetime supporter of Barack Obama’s foreign policy,
said the president’s performance has slipped to “at best”
mediocre.  “The efforts in  Afghanistan  do not really have the benefit
of objectives and a very clear path,” Lugar, the top Republican
on the Foreign Relations Committee, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend. “The Libya situation borders on being a
fiasco altogether.”  U.S. diplomacy with  Pakistan  “certainly leaves a lot to be
desired,” said Lugar. “In short, this is not a situation that
is going particularly well.” In addition, he said, “We have a
NATO alliance that is becoming weaker as time goes on,”
referring to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  Lugar said he would give Obama a foreign policy grade of
“at best a C.” Lugar said two years ago the president deserved
an “A” because the administration was more inclusive and
reached out more to U.S. allies than did Republican President
 George W. Bush .  Lugar reiterated his criticism of the Obama administration
for its refusal to seek congressional approval for U.S.
involvement in Libya.  Obama is in conflict with some lawmakers over his
commitment of U.S. forces to an air campaign with NATO allies
against Muammar Qaddafi’s troops. The administration argues that
it doesn’t need authorization from Congress, and Lugar has
called that position “legally dubious and unwise.”  ‘Might Get Lucky’  Lugar suggested that the administration miscalculated in
its decision to join the conflict, which is entering its fourth
month with Qaddafi still in power.  “My guess is that the president or others felt they might
get lucky, that if they did look as if NATO was coming in,
Qaddafi would say, ‘It is time for me to go,’” Lugar said.  The six-term Indiana lawmaker said if a resolution to
support the U.S. action in  Libya  were brought up for a vote in
the Senate, he wouldn’t support it.  Lugar said he would wait until after a hearing he has
sought on the administration’s rationale for involvement in
Libya before deciding whether to support cutting off funding for
the mission if the president continues refusing to seek
authorization.  War in Afghanistan  On the war in Afghanistan, Lugar embraced the idea of a
reduction in U.S. forces to 20,000 or 30,000 as suggested by the
president of the  Council on Foreign Relations , Richard Haass, at
a congressional hearing.  That level of troop drawdown could probably be reached
within a year, Lugar said.  The Pentagon has started paring U.S. forces in Afghanistan,
even before Obama decides on the full size of the promised
reduction, by re-routing 800 soldiers that were in training for
the conflict.  The administration is considering how much to cut troop
strength in Afghanistan to meet the president’s December 2009
pledge of starting to reduce the U.S. presence there next month.  Obama is under pressure from fellow Democrats and some
Republicans for a sizable cut in the almost 100,000 U.S. forces
in Afghanistan, fighting alongside 47,000 troops from other
countries in the NATO-led coalition.  “Even though the administration has said that the wars in
Afghanistan and  Iraq  are only costing $117 billion this year as
opposed to $159 billion the year before, this is a
disproportionate amount of the  defense budget  on one small
country,” Lugar said.  He also said Pakistan “is a real worry” in terms of the
safety and security of its nuclear weapons.  “We’ve raised this question, and the Pakistanis have said
this is our sovereign right to deal with this,” he said. “As a
matter of fact, they have felt we have been more and more
intrusive and that we ought to get over it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in  Washington  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  