-- 
Shekel’s Best Week This Year Shows Growth Trumps Egypt Concern

-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-02-18T14:24:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/shekel-s-best-week-this-year-shows-growth-trumps-egypt-concern.html
  Israel ’s shekel is weathering
regional turmoil and central bank efforts to weaken the currency
as investors bet the surge in growth and inflation will lead to
higher interest rates and further inflows.  The shekel is headed for its best weekly gain since
December, even as popular protests that led governments in Egypt
and  Tunisia  to fall spread in the region. The currency’s advance
in that period, the best performance among the 10 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg in  Europe , the Middle
East, and  Africa , pared this year’s loss to 2.6 percent.  Israel’s economy grew an annualized 7.8 percent in the
fourth quarter, the most in four years. The higher-than-forecast
growth and rising inflation will lead Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  to raise interest rates to 2.5 percent next
week, according to all 19 of the economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “The shekel will stick out as the currency to face
significant appreciation pressures,” said  Tevfik Aksoy , Morgan
Stanley’s London-based chief economist for  Turkey , the Middle
East and North Africa. “Israeli currency reserves will continue
to rise, keeping the currency as the one that everybody hates to
love. Each time the currency investors attempt to get engaged,
the Bank of Israel intervenes or new measures are introduced.”  The shekel weakened 0.1 percent to 3.6200 to the dollar at
4:14 p.m. in Tel Aviv, leaving this week’s gain at 1.7 percent.  Fischer, who boosted the benchmark interest rate last month
to 2.25 percent, may increase borrowing costs to 3.5 percent by
year-end as credit expands, housing prices increase, inflation
expectations rise and the economy recovers, Aksoy said.  Buying Dollars  The central bank has been buying foreign currency since
March 2008 in an attempt to ease the shekel’s appreciation and
shield exporters. Reserves have more than doubled since then, to
a record $73.4 billion at the end of January. The  Bank of Israel 
bought $2.1 billion last month.  Israel is also trying to limit shekel gains by discouraging
short-term capital flows. Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said
Jan. 27 he will seek to cancel the tax exemption foreigners have
on profit from Makam bills and short-term bonds. The central
bank on Jan. 20 ordered Israeli banks to meet a 10 percent
reserve requirement for foreign-exchange derivative
transactions, sending the shekel down as much as 1.4 percent.  Changing Rules  “The Bank of Israel and the Ministry of Finance are
attempting to change the rules of the game in the foreign-  currency market , focusing on foreign players,” said Victor Bahar, an economist at Bank Hapoalim Ltd. in  Tel Aviv . “Our
position remains that the strength of the shekel mainly derives
from the fact that the Israeli economy has been notably positive
in comparison to most of the developed countries.”  The shekel’s gains may moderate because of the latest set
of measures by the central bank and the  finance ministry ,  Elisabeth Gruie , an emerging-markets strategist at BNP Paribas
SA in  London , said Feb. 1. “While we expect the shekel to
strengthen on the long term given the strong balance of payment
position, until the measures are fully digested, and the
political transition in Egypt is clarified we would be protected
from further shekel weakness.”  BNP Paribas expects the shekel may lose as much as 4.6
percent by the end of the first quarter to 3.8 per dollar. The
shekel is likely to strengthen another 1.8 percent to 3.56 per
dollar by the end of the year, according to the median forecast
of 11 financial institutions surveyed by Bloomberg this year.  Mideast Turmoil  Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  stepped down on Feb. 11,
bowing to the demands of protesters who occupied Tahrir Square
in central Cairo for almost three weeks. The Supreme Council of
the Armed Forces pledged to honor all international and regional
treaties signed by the North African nation.  Egypt  was the first
Arab country to agree to a peace accord with Israel in 1979.  Israeli inflation accelerated to 3.6 percent in January,
outside the target range of 1 percent to 3 percent for the first
time since March last year. The rate is likely to stay above the
upper limit “for most of 2011,” the central bank said on Jan.
24. Israel’s soaring prices may force Fischer to raise rates
quickly and allow for shekel appreciation, which makes imported
goods cheaper, according to Citigroup Inc.  “The bank may lean towards allowing more shekel
appreciation over the next few months,” wrote London-based
David Lubin, chief emerging-markets economist at Citigroup. “A
combination of decisive rate hikes and a stronger shekel could
both be needed to keep inflationary expectations under
control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  