-- 
Singapore to Spend $5.2 Billion on Benefits Before Elections Within a Year

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-02-18T16:05:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/singapore-to-spend-5-2-billion-on-benefits-before-elections-within-a-year.html
Singapore will spend S$6.6 billion
($5.2 billion) on benefits including tax cuts and rebates as the
government prepares to face elections within the next year.  The government will hand cash to all adult citizens as a
“dividend” from record growth, upgrade homes and invest in
improving productivity, Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam
said in the city state’s  budget  speech yesterday. Companies will
be required to increase contributions into employees’ pension
funds and pay more to hire foreign workers, he said.  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has pledged to ensure lower-
income families aren’t left out of the island’s expansion, as
quickening inflation threatens to erode purchasing power in  Asia . Economists at Citigroup Inc. and Standard Chartered Plc
say the budget may signal higher costs for businesses at a time
when consumer-price growth is already at a two-year high.  “It’s a redistributive pre-election budget,” said Kit Wei Zheng, an economist at Citigroup in Singapore. “There will be
some wage inflation pressures,” though the government is trying
to offset the higher costs with one-time measures, he said.
Those steps announced yesterday include tax breaks and rebates.  The administration expects inflation to average 3 percent
to 4 percent this year, up from a previous forecast of 2 percent
to 3 percent. Consumer prices may rise 5 percent to 6 percent in
the first few months of 2011, it projects.  Inflation Threat  “The rising cost of living is a concern,” Shanmugaratnam
said. “We are providing lower- and middle-income Singaporeans
with benefits in this budget that for many households will more
than offset their increase in household expenses -- even before
taking into account any wage increases.”    Singapore ’s expansion is forecast to slow this year to less
than half of 2010’s pace, when a rebound from the global
recession spurred wages and boosted  home prices  to a record. The
economy expanded 14.5 percent last year, the fastest rate since
independence in 1965. The government has said this year’s growth
will be 4 percent to 6 percent with “some upside potential.”  Rising commodity prices may hurt Asia’s growth should they
force governments to tighten domestic policies to control
inflation, Shanmugaratnam said.  “Food and other commodity prices have climbed sharply,
because supply has been affected by harsh weather conditions
while demand continues to grow in  China  and elsewhere,”
Shanmugaratnam said. “The political uncertainties in the Middle
East have also driven  oil prices  up. There will not be early
relief from these inflationary pressures.”  Currency Appreciation  Singapore’s first approach is to seek to moderate medium-
term inflationary pressures through the currency, Shanmugaratnam
said. The island’s dollar rose as much as 0.6 percent yesterday
and has climbed more than 10 percent in the past year to be the
second-best performing currency in Asia excluding Japan.  The  central bank  “has permitted the Singapore dollar to
appreciate against a basket of foreign currencies over the last
18 months, which has helped counter inflation in imported
goods,” the minister said. “However, using the  exchange rate 
to offset sudden spikes in prices, such as what we have seen in
oil prices over the last six months, would require a sharp
appreciation of the  Singapore dollar . This would disrupt our
exporters.”  Of the S$6.6 billion in benefits that the government
announced yesterday, S$3.2 billion will be distributed this year
while the rest will be for “longer-term social investments,”
Shanmugaratnam said. The government will also spend S$10 billion
to upgrade its public housing estates to preserve their value,
he said.  Tax Rebate  The measures announced yesterday include a 20 percent
income-tax rebate capped at S$2,000 for earnings in 2010 and the
scrapping of radio and television license fees. The government
will also supplement the salaries of low-income Singaporeans,
and reduce marginal tax rates on personal incomes from 2011 to
result in lower payments for most taxpayers.  While the top personal  tax rate  is higher than in Hong
Kong, “there is no pressing competitive need for us to reduce
it at this point,” the minister said.  Hong Kong  taxes
individuals at a maximum 17 percent, while Singapore levies a 20
percent rate.  The gap between Singapore’s most affluent and poorest
people widened last year as higher wage earners received bigger
increases in income, according to the statistics department.  The  People’s Action Party  led by Lee has been in power
since independence and holds 82 of the 84 elected seats in
parliament. At the last election in 2006, the ruling party won
about 67 percent of votes, 8 percentage points lower than the
previous poll. The next election must be held by February 2012.  Pension Payments  Companies will have to pay more into employees’ pension
funds, the government said yesterday. An employer currently pays
up to 15 percent of a worker’s wage into employee pension funds,
and this will increase by half a percentage point next month.
From September, the rate will be lifted a further half point to
16 percent, subject to a raised cap, the finance minister said.  Singapore has cut taxes in recent years to encourage
businesses to set up operations or expand in the city state.    Exxon Mobil Corp . is among the companies that are adding
capacity and the nation’s two casinos, which opened last year,
have hired tens of thousands of workers at their hotels, malls
and gaming centers.  Last year, Singapore announced S$5.5 billion of spending to
spur productivity as it sought to reduce the economy’s
dependence on overseas labor. Singapore will raise the levies on
foreign workers to prevent them exceeding the long-term target
of one-third of the workforce, Shanmugaratnam said.  The government will provide a 20 percent corporate tax
rebate and a cash grant to small and medium enterprises to help
companies cope with rising costs, he said, adding that the
initiative will cost it S$560 million.  In 2009, the government tapped the country’s reserves for
the first time to give employers cash grants to retain local
workers. Singapore will return S$4 billion into its reserves
that it had earlier drawn, Shanmugaratnam said yesterday.  The fiscal surplus will be about S$100 million in the year
starting April 1, from a projected shortfall of approximately
S$300 million for the current period, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  