-- 
Slovenia Must Cut State Role to Help Growth, OECD Says

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-02-18T11:34:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/slovenia-must-cut-back-state-s-role-to-boost-economy-oecd-says.html
Slovenia must reduce the state’s
role in the economy to speed up the recovery of the hardest hit
country in the euro region during the global recession, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said.  The economy of the former Yugoslav nation, which adopted
the euro in 2007, may grow 2.5 percent this year after an
estimated 1 percent last year, according to an OECD report
published today.  "Structural reforms to boost productivity and
competitiveness should concentrate on improving labor market
flexibility, fostering innovation and higher education, and
favoring foreign direct investment, notably by reducing the
direct involvement of the state in the economy," the Paris-based
club of 34 countries said.  A pension overhaul introduced last year is a "step in the
right direction" to improve fiscal sustainability and boost
labor supply, the report said.  Slovenian regulators should carry out stress tests for all
lenders in the country and restructure bad assets if needed,
while recapitalizing banks whose Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure
of financial strength, falls below a safe threshold, the OECD
said.  “Since the beginning of the crisis, credit risk has been
growing with a large increase in non-performing loans,” the
report said. “With business bankruptcies likely to increase
further and falls in real estate prices expected to continue,
concerns may arise as to whether the banking sector is
sufficiently capitalized to withstand further shocks.”  Stress Tests  Slovenia’s government has holdings in the country’s three
biggest banks. The lenders are being reviewed for a possible
downgrade,  Moody’s Investors Service said on Jan. 27.  Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., which reported a loss of 202
million euros ($274 million) last year, put aside 477 million
euros to cover bad loans and on asset writedowns. Its Tier 1
capital ratio was 6.02 percent at the end of last year. European
Union regulators last year set a 6 percent minimum during their  stress test  of the bloc’s lenders.  NLB, which was the only lender to undergo the Europe-wide
stress test in July, is seeking a 250 million-euro capital
increase, while its smaller rival Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor
d.d. wants to raise funds through a rights offer on the  Warsaw
Stock Exchange .  Two Slovenian lenders are slated for new EU bank stress
tests, Finance Minister  Franc Krizanic  said last month without
naming specific companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  