-- 
SMIC Targets Sales Increase of as Much as 20% in 2011 on Advanced Products

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-02-18T03:05:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/smic-targets-sales-increase-of-as-much-as-20-in-2011-on-advanced-products.html
  Semiconductor Manufacturing
International Corp .,  China ’s biggest chipmaker, said it aims to
post a sales increase of as much as 20 percent this year as the
company attracts orders for more advanced products.  The company is expected to post “strong” growth in the
second quarter after a sales drop in the three months to March
31, Chief Executive Officer David Wang said in a conference call
today. It aims to increase full-year sales 15 percent to 20
percent, he said.  Semiconductor Manufacturing yesterday posted its first
annual profit since 2004 as the global economic recovery boosted
demand for chips that are used in mobile phones and computers.
The Shanghai-based company plans to increase  capital spending  to
$1 billion this year to upgrade technology and catch up with
bigger rivals including Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  The Chinese company is getting more orders for products
that are used in wireless connectivity devices such as Wi-fi and
Bluetooth, as well as mobile phones, Wang said. More customers
are switching to the company’s 65-nanometer production lines
from older chip-fabrication technologies, he said.  Semiconductor Manufacturing fell 4.2 percent to 69 Hong
Kong cents as of 10:48 a.m. in  Hong Kong  trading, compared with
a 1 percent gain in the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Fourth-quarter profit was $68.6 million, compared with a
$617.7 million loss a year earlier, Semiconductor Manufacturing
said in a statement yesterday. The company had an annual profit
in 2010 after five straight years of losses, it said.  ‘Alternative Funding’  First-quarter sales will fall between 6 percent and 9
percent from the $411.8 million posted in the previous three
months, the company said. Wang said the decline is due to
seasonality and customers switching production technologies.  Semiconductor Manufacturing will seek “alternative
funding” as the company seeks to “strengthen its equity
structure,” Chief Financial Officer Gary Tseng said on the call
today, without elaborating. The chipmaker can meet its planned
$1 billion capital spending this year without additional funding,
he said.  The company’s 2010 capital spending was more than $700
million, Tseng said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  