-- 
Ford Motor Forms Russian Joint Venture With Sollers

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-02-19T00:03:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/sollers-signs-russia-deal-with-ford-after-pulling-out-of-talks-with-fiat.html
  Ford Motor Co . agreed to form a
joint venture to assemble and distribute vehicles in Russia with
OAO Sollers, the nation’s second-largest automaker, after  Fiat
SpA ’s talks to create a similar arrangement there failed.  The planned venture, called Ford Sollers, will manufacture
Ford vehicles at plants in St. Petersburg and the Republic of
Tatarstan, east of Moscow, starting this year, Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford said today in a statement. Ford and Sollers
each will own half of the venture, the companies said.  Ford, Volkswagen AG and  Toyota Motor Corp . are increasing
Russian output and adding models as the nation’s economy expands
and government incentives spur purchases. Today’s agreement will
help Ford diversify in  Russia , where it already has a
significant operation in the St. Petersburg area, said Warren Browne, a vice president at consultant AutomotiveCompass LLC.  “Ford is obviously making an aggressive play in Russia,
and Sollers is going to help them on that,” said Browne, who’s
based in Northville,  Michigan , and is a former head of General
Motors Corp.’s Russian operations.  Russia may become the world’s sixth-largest auto market in
2020, with 4 million deliveries a year, the Boston Consulting
Group said in a report earlier this month. The nation now is the
world’s 10th-largest, with 1.9 million annual sales, according
to the Boston-based consulting firm.  Ford fell 20 cents to $15.77 at 6:40 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Fiat dropped 12 cents, or 1.7
percent, to close at 7.08 euros in Milan.  Fiat Negotiations  Fiat had been in negotiations with Sollers, which also
makes vehicles in Russia for Ssangyong Motor Co. and  Isuzu
Motors Ltd ., about a 2.4 billion-euro ($3.3 billion) venture
until talks broke down. Turin, Italy-based Fiat will continue
with its plans for Russia without the agreement and plans to
produce 500,000 vehicles in the country by 2016, said a Fiat
spokesman, who declined to be named, citing company policy.  Fiat will maintain a separate deal with Moscow-based
Sollers to produce vehicles including the Albea car and the
Ducato van, the spokesman said.  Fiat, which runs Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler
Group LLC, is targeting fast-growing economies to counter losses
in Europe, its biggest market. The company lost about 1 billion
euros in  Europe  last year, compared with an operating profit of
1.4 billion euros in  Brazil , according to  Max Warburton , an
analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein in  London .  The breakdown in talks with Sollers is “negative news for
Fiat,” said Marco Santino, an analyst with A.T. Kearney in
Rome. “Chrysler and Jeep are appealing brands in the country.”  Russian car sales may advance about 16 percent to as many
as 2.2 million units in 2011, Marcus Osegowitsch, VW’s Russia
chief, said last month. A stable ruble, broadening consumer
confidence and improved credit conditions may continue to drive
demand, he said.  Russian new car sales jumped 72 percent to 127,564 last
month from the same period a year earlier as consumers took
advantage of a state cash-for-clunkers program.  Ford’s assembly plant near  St. Petersburg  began production
in 2002 and builds the Focus and Mondeo cars. The automaker,
which has 100 dealers in 72 Russian cities, sold 90,166 vehicles
in Russia last year, a 9.8 percent gain, according to the
Association of European Business in the Russian Federation.  The partnership with Sollers also will include engine
production and stamping and involve establishing research and
development activities, Ford said in a statement.  OAO AvtoVaz is Russia’s largest automaker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net . 