-- 
Some 400 Unfinished Irish Housing Estates Need ‘Urgent Action’

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-02-18T11:49:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/some-400-unfinished-irish-housing-estates-need-urgent-action-.html
Around 15 percent of Ireland’s
unfinished housing developments require “urgent” action to
make them safe, the country’s  Department of Environment  said
today.  Five million euros ($6.8 million) of funding will be made
available to local authorities to address the problem, John
Whelan, a spokesman for the department, said in a telephone
interview. A “full recouping of costs” from developers should
be made over time, the department said.  Out of a total 2,846 unfinished developments, or so-called
“ghost estates” in the country, 400 require a “high level of
intervention” in order to ensure the safety of residents on
partially completed developments, the department said in an e-
mailed statement.  Some of the estates have been “developer abandoned,”
meaning that work on the estate is not complete, the developer
is not contactable and a receiver hasn’t been appointed.
Specific areas of concern identified by the department include
where there is access to open excavations, unprotected upper
floor areas and inadequate public lighting, according to the
environment department.  “Resources to enable local authorities to step in, prepare
and implement Site Action Plans on the worst case sites are
essential,” the department, which has commissioned a report
into how to deal with the problem of unfinished estates, said in
the statement.  Such resources “should not be set at such a level as to
undermine the process of ensuring that developers and site
owners meet their legal and financial obligations.”    House prices  in Ireland, which quadrupled in the decade
through 2007, have plunged as unemployment rose during the
recession, banks tightened lending criteria and a building boom
left the country with a housing glut.  The problem of unfinished estates is “most pronounced” in
areas away from urban centers such as Dublin and in the region
bordering  Northern Ireland , according to the department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  