-- 
Soros Says Obama ‘Has Lost Control’ of U.S. Economic Agenda

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-02-20T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/soros-says-obama-has-lost-control-of-the-agenda-.html
  George Soros , a billionaire hedge-
fund manager who has donated millions to Democrats, said
Democratic President Barack Obama “has lost control of the
agenda” on the  U.S. economy , leaving it “now in the hands of
the  Republican Party .”  Republicans “are going to pursue a very strong effort to
cut services by refusing to have any tax increases,” Soros said
in an interview with  CNN ’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” program.  “This agenda will be successful,” though it will be
“more directed at cutting services and achieving the
ideological purposes of the Republicans rather than to get the
economy going,” Soros, 80, said, according to a transcript of
the interview released by CNN. “This will have a negative
impact on the economy.”  Soros is a major donor to the  Democratic Party . He gave
$2.5 million to an independent political group established by
John Podesta, now an Obama adviser, in 2008 and contributed
$50,000, the maximum allowed, for Obama’s 2009 inaugural
celebrations. For the 2004 campaign against Republican President  George W. Bush , Soros contributed $27 million to Democrats,
according to Congressional Quarterly’s Moneyline.  The White House had no immediate comment on Soros’s remarks
on the program, taped Feb. 17 and scheduled to be broadcast
today.  Federal Budget  Obama and Democrats face a fight over cutting the federal
budget with Republicans, who gained control of the  House of
Representatives  and reduced Democratic Senate control in
November’s elections.  The president sent Congress on Feb. 14 a $3.7 trillion
budget for fiscal year 2012 that projects the federal deficit
will exceed $1 trillion for the fourth consecutive year. The
deficit is forecast to hit a record $1.6 trillion in fiscal
2011. The Republican-controlled House voted yesterday to cut at
least $61 billion in federal spending this year.  The reduction would come at a time when investment by
businesses isn’t “strong enough to take up the slack,” he
said. As a result, unemployment, 9 percent in January, probably
will remain high, according to Soros, founder of Soros Fund
Management LLC, which oversaw about $25 billion in assets as of
September.    Bond Market   The U.S. government is facing a situation in which it may
not be able to tap the bond market for funds, according to the
Hungarian-born billionaire financier.  “That’s more or less in the cards because we aren’t
applying fiscal stimulus, because of the ideologies that the
government can’t do anything right, so we can’t expect the
government to help,” Soros said. “So you have idle resources,
and the  Federal Reserve  is providing quantitative easing. Well,
I think when it expires, they won’t give it any more.”  The Federal Reserve’s so-called quantitative easing program
is an effort to stimulate the economy and increase employment by
purchasing government debt.  Interest rates ultimately will rise and “choke off the
economic recovery,” Soros said.  Members of the fiscally conservative Tea Party network are
“decent” and “hard-working” and being misled by people
aiming to cut taxes and regulations for “selfish purposes,”
Soros said. “They are being used and deceived,” he said.  Soros also discussed the Middle East and praised Obama’s
handing of the revolt in  Egypt  that led to the ousting of
Egyptian autocrat  Hosni Mubarak .  Soros predicted that  Iran ’s ruling regime also will topple
within the year, though warned the situation there could become
“very ugly” before this happens.  “Opposition leaders could easily be killed through a false
judicial process because the regime is fighting for its
survival, because they know that they have committed such crimes
that it’s either them or the people,” he said. “But I don’t
think that they will be able to succeed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  