-- 
Spain Backs Single EU Platform for CO2; Poland, Germany Opt Out

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-02-18T15:40:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/spain-backs-single-eu-platform-for-co2-poland-germany-opt-out.html
  Spain  will join the single European
Union platform for auctioning emission permits in the next phase
of the bloc’s trading system after  Poland  and  Germany  said they
will opt out and use national systems.  The EU, which has given away the majority of allowances
since starting its cap-and-trade program in 2005, will require
most emitters to purchase their allotments starting in 2013.
While the EU regulator favors a common auctioning platform,
saying a centralized approach offers the best “value for
money,” it agreed last year to give member states the option of
running their own national auctions.  Germany and Poland, the biggest and third-largest EU
emitters in 2009, pushed for individual auctions when the
regulation was discussed last year. Spain also backed the
option, allowed by other EU states to ensure competition.  Spain decided to back the single auction system to make the
process more competitive and ensure equal access for all traders
after assessing the merits of a national platform, an
Environment Ministry spokeswoman said today in an e-mail. She
asked not to be named in line with official policy  The EU will auction about 60 percent of all CO2 permits in
2013, according to estimates by the European Commission, the
bloc’s regulator. That proportion of sales versus free permits
will rise in subsequent years as part of the bloc’s strategy to
use the world’s biggest cap-and-trade program to cut emissions.  The cap for carbon-dioxide discharges for 2013 has been set
at 2.04 billion tons, including aluminum and chemical makers,
which join the program in its third phase running through 2020.
That would be worth around 30 billion euros at today’s prices.
Airlines become part of the program next year.  The EU agreed that auctioning platforms should be
established through an “open, transparent and competitive
selection procedure.” Every application for individual auctions
will be subject to approval by other member countries.  The allocation of free allowances in the third phase of the
EU cap-and-trade will be based on the so-called carbon-intensity
benchmarks approved by member states last year. The method was
designed to give the most efficient installations in each
industry the most free allowances, while those that emit more
than the benchmarks will need to buy permits or reduce
emissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net 
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  