-- 
Spurs to Bid $24 Million for Teen Striker Wickham, Mirror Says: Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-02-18T05:22:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/spurs-to-bid-24-million-for-teen-striker-wickham-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Teenage Target  Tottenham Hotspur is prepared to offer Ipswich 15 million
pounds ($24.2 million) to secure 17-year-old striker Connor
Wickham in the offseason, the Daily Mirror  reported .  Spurs have an agreement with the Championship team that
gives them first refusal on the  England  under-21 international
forward if the price is right, the newspaper said. The 6-foot-3
Wickham has also attracted the interest of other Premier League
clubs, the Mirror added.  Evra Extends  Manchester United defender Patrice Evra agreed to a new 3
1/2-year contract that will lift his wages to 90,000 pounds a
week from 70,000 pounds, the Sun  reported .  Left-back Evra, who joined United in January 2006 for 5.5
million pounds from  Monaco , had been a target of Spanish club
Real Madrid, the newspaper added.  Arsenal, Villa Alert  Aston Villa and Arsenal have been alerted to the
availability of Montpellier central defender Emir Spahic after
club President Louis Nicollin told the Bosnian he’ll be allowed
to leave in June, the Mail  reported .  Villa manager  Gerard Houllier  was close to a 5 million-
pound deal to sign Spahic last month, while Arsenal was thwarted
in its attempt to acquire him last year because the Montpellier
board was unwilling to sell, the newspaper added.  McClaren Warns City    Steve McClaren , who sanctioned Edin Dzeko’s 27 million-
pound sale to  Manchester City  while manager of Wolfsburg, said
the Bosnian striker may not hit his peak form until next season,
the Independent  reported .  “Edin, once he learns to settle in England and adapts to
the English system, will be a major force,” the newspaper cited
McClaren as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  