-- 
Stanford, JPMorgan, HP, GMAC, BofA in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-02-18T11:28:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/stanford-liverpool-gmac-astrazeneca-satyam-in-court-news.html
R. Allen Stanford, the indicted
financier, sued U.S. prosecutors and agents of the FBI and
Securities and Exchange Commission, accusing them of “abusive
law enforcement” and seeking $7.2 billion in damages.  Stanford, who has been held without bail since being
indicted in 2009, filed the lawsuit Feb. 16 at the U.S.
courthouse in Houston. He is accused of leading a $7 billion
securities fraud scheme and has pleaded not guilty.  “Mr. Stanford contends the named and unknown agents
undertook illegal tactics to prosecute Mr. Stanford, starting
with a civil prosecution by the SEC,” according to the
complaint. The SEC sued him two years ago yesterday.  The  Texas  financier alleges the federal government has used
more than $51 million of his own assets to pursue the cases
against him. “The agents have engaged in unfair, abusive law-
enforcement methods and tactics,” he alleged.  Kevin Callahan, an SEC spokesman, declined in an e-mail
yesterday to comment on Stanford’s lawsuit. Citing a court-
imposed gag order in the criminal case,  Laura Sweeney , a Justice
Department spokeswoman, also declined to comment.  The case is R. Allen Stanford v. Stephen Korotosh, 11cv582,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank Ltd., 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  JPMorgan, EMC Sued by Ambac Over Securitization Losses  Ambac Assurance Corp. sued  JPMorgan Chase & Co .’s EMC
Mortgage and JPMorgan Securities units in  New York  state court,
claiming it was fraudulently induced to participate in mortgage-
backed securitization transactions.  The insurer is seeking to be made whole, as if it had never
entered into the 2005 to 2007 transactions worth hundreds of
millions of dollars, according to the complaint filed yesterday
in Manhattan.  The actions covered by the lawsuit began when EMC was owned
by Bear Stearns & Co. and continued after 2008, when it was
bought by New York-based JPMorgan, according to the complaint.
Ambac said JPMorgan engaged in a “bad-faith strategy” and
rejected Bear Stearns’s findings of loans that breached
representations.  “Bear Stearns’ material misrepresentations, omissions and
breaches of the parties’ agreements fundamentally altered and
essentially gutted the parties’ bargain,” according to the
complaint. “JPMorgan caused EMC to reject legitimate repurchase
demands.”  In mid-2006, Bear Stearns induced investors to buy and
Ambac to insure securities backed by a pool of mortgages that a
Bear Stearns deal manager called a “sack of s--t,” according
to the complaint. Bear Stearns disregarded the quality of the
loans to increase the volume for securitizations, Ambac said.
When the market collapse exposed the defective loans, JPMorgan
took over Bear Stearns and prevented EMC from honoring its
promises to disclose and repurchase defective loans, Ambac said.  Howard Opinsky, a spokesman for JPMorgan, had no immediate
comment.  The case is Ambac Assurance Corp. v EMC Mortgage Corp.,
650421/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Hewlett-Packard Investor Seeks Sex Report on Hurd  A  Hewlett-Packard Co . investor asked a Delaware judge to
release a law firm’s confidential report on allegations of
“sexual harassment” that led to Mark Hurd’s ouster last year
as chief executive officer.  The so-called Covington Report, prepared for the HP board
by lawyers at Covington & Burling LLP, is “a critical piece of
the puzzle” about Hurd’s departure, lawyers for shareholder
Ernesto Espinoza wrote to Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald
Parsons Jr. in court papers made public yesterday.  “HP invokes the attorney-client privilege to shield the
Covington Report,” while Delaware courts “have repeatedly
recognized” that divulging such information may help avoid
“the perpetration of frauds” and corporate waste, plaintiff’s
lawyer Norman Monhait wrote in the brief.  Espinoza sued HP on Nov. 18 in a sealed complaint seeking
company books and records as a part of his investigation into
possible wrongdoing by directors. The board granted Hurd a
severance package valued at as much as $40 million, “rather
than terminate him for cause” with no money, according to the
brief.  The internal investigation revealed that Hurd “had a close
personal relationship with contractor Jodie Fisher” and that
she received compensation, at times, where “there was not a
legitimate purpose,” Monhait wrote. While Hurd said he was
“unaware of her past adult film career,” the probe revealed
that he “searched out these movies and watched them on a
pornographic website,” according to Monhait.  Michael Thacker, a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-
based HP, the largest maker of computers, declined to comment on
the filings. Glenn Bunting, a spokesman for Hurd, also declined
to comment.  Peter J. Walsh Jr., a lawyer for the company, said in court
papers that the report is covered by rules protecting the
confidentiality of attorney-client communications, and Espinoza
falls “woefully short” of showing that disclosure of the law
firm’s report is necessary and essential to his stated purpose.  The Delaware case is Espinoza v. Hewlett-Packard Co.,
CA6000, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The California
case is Levine v. Andreessen, 10-3608, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  For more, click here.  Ex-Liverpool Owners Fail to Overturn Order Blocking Lawsuit  Former Liverpool owners  George Gillett  and Tom Hicks failed
to overturn a court order restraining them from suing for
damages in the U.S. over the forced sale of the soccer team.  Justice  Christopher Floyd  at the High Court in  London  said
while the pair can file lawsuits seeking information in American
courts, they must ask permission from a U.K. judge if they want
to file any damage claims in their own country. Floyd’s October
ruling cleared the way for the owners of the Boston Red Sox to
buy the 18-time English champion for 300 million pounds ($482
million).  Floyd said there isn’t a “blanket prohibition on all
conceivable actions, as the owners tend to suggest,” only a
requirement that they ask the U.K. court before they file other
actions abroad. Hicks and Gillett lost about $222 million on the
forced sale.  Hicks and Gillett, who in 2007 bought the team via a 219
million-pound leveraged buyout, have called last year’s sale an
“epic swindle” and claimed the team’s directors and lender  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  conspired against them. The duo
filed a lawsuit in Texas to block the deal and sought $1.6
billion in damages. They later dropped the case when threatened
with a U.K. contempt-of-court charge.  At a hearing last week, Richard Snowden, a lawyer
representing RBS, said if Hicks and Gillett want to sue to
recoup money, they should do so in the U.K.  Liverpool said in a statement yesterday it was
“delighted” with Floyd’s ruling “prohibiting the former
owners from commencing legal actions” outside the European
Union.  Hicks and Gillett can appeal yesterday’s ruling.  For more, click here.  GMAC Won’t Face Much of Maine False Foreclosure Documents Suit  Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC mortgage unit won’t have to face
much of a lawsuit by Maine homeowners seeking damages over what
they said were the company’s wrongful foreclosure practices.  U.S. District Judge D. Brock Hornby in Portland, Maine,
granted GMAC’s request to dismiss two claims in the complaint,
according to a decision Feb. 16. He will probably throw out the
remaining claim, Thomas Cox, a lawyer for the homeowners, said
in an interview.  “I just don’t see how anything survives,” Cox said.  The decision will hurt similar lawsuits across the country
in which homeowners are attacking the foreclosure practices of
lenders, Cox said. Based on the judge’s ruling, homeowners can
only challenge the use of false documents in their individual
foreclosure cases, preventing them from filing class-action, or
group lawsuits, he said.  “It’s going to be cited as precedent in any other case in
the country where somebody is trying to bring an action against
a servicer for having filed false affidavits,” said Cox, a
Portland attorney.  If false documents are used in foreclosure cases,
homeowners can seek to vacate the judgment in their particular
cases, Hornby wrote. They can’t file new lawsuits, according to
the decision.  Cox called that a “hollow remedy” because most homeowners
can’t afford defense attorneys.  Gina Proia, an Ally spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The case is Bradbury v. GMAC Mortgage LLC, 10-00458, U.S.
District Court of Maine (Portland).  For more, click here.  Judge Gives U.S. 30 Days to Act on Gulf Drill Permits  U.S. offshore energy regulators have 30 days to act on five
Gulf of Mexico drilling permits that have been unreasonably
delayed by the Obama Administration’s offshore drill bans, a New
Orleans judge ruled.  “The government is under a duty to act by either granting
or denying a permit application within a reasonable time,” U.S.
District Judge  Martin Feldman  ruled yesterday in New Orleans.
“Not acting at all is not a lawful option.”  Feldman ordered offshore energy regulators to act within 30
days on five permit applications filed by companies that have
drilling contracts with Ensco Offshore Co., the Louisiana
drilling company leading the legal challenge to the government’s
offshore drilling bans.  He said these permits have been delayed anywhere from four
to nine months by drilling suspensions imposed by regulators in
the wake of the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history. Before
the spill, permits were typically processed within two weeks.  “We are aware of the ruling and are reviewing it,”  Wyn
Hornbuckle , a Justice Department spokesman, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “We have no further comment at this time.”  Sean O’Neill, an Ensco spokesman, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  For more, click here.  BofA Unit’s Utah Foreclosures Violate Law, State Says  A  Bank of America Corp . unit is breaking the law by
foreclosing on homeowners in Utah because it doesn’t meet state
requirements, the state attorney general’s office said in a
federal appeals court case.  ReconTrust Co., a subsidiary of Bank of America, the
biggest U.S. lender by assets, isn’t a member of the state bar
or a title insurance company and is unqualified to carry out
trustee foreclosures, Utah Attorney General Mark Shurtleff wrote
in court papers filed Feb. 16 with the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Denver.  “ReconTrust Co. N.A. is a non-depository national bank
initiating approximately 4,000 home foreclosures in Utah each
year in violation of Utah law,” the attorney general’s office
said.  The court filing was made in a homeowner’s lawsuit against
ReconTrust and Bank of America.  “National banks must abide by state law,” said John
Christian Barlow, an attorney for the homeowner, Peni Cox.
“ReconTrust just wants to foreclose, period,” he said.  A Utah state judge issued an injunction last year blocking
ReconTrust from trustee foreclosure sales in the state, Barlow
said. A federal judge later lifted the injunction.  “It is Bank of America and its related affiliates’ policy
to handle foreclosures in compliance with applicable laws,”  Jumana Bauwens , a spokeswoman for Bank of America, said in an e-
mailed statement. “We believe the district court was correct in
its ruling in our favor and believe the ruling should not change
as a result of this appeal.”  The case is Cox v. ReconTrust Co., 10-04117, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the 10th Circuit (Denver).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  U.S. Asks Judge to Clarify Health-Care Law Decision  The Obama administration asked a U.S. judge to clarify the
scope of his ruling that invalidated the nation’s health-care
reform law.  U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson in Pensacola, Florida,
last month ruled that the portion of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act that mandates people procure minimum
coverage starting in 2014 is unconstitutional. He then granted a
request by 26 states to invalidate the entire  law , saying the
mandate was integral to all aspects of the statute.  The federal government, in papers filed with Vinson
yesterday, asked the judge to clarify whether that ruling
relieves the plaintiff states of their rights and obligations
under the act while the U.S. appeals.  The court’s ruling “potentially implicates hundreds of
provisions of the Act and, if it were interpreted to apply to
programs currently in effect, duties currently in force, taxes
currently being collected, and tax credits that may be owed at
this time or in the near future, would create substantial
uncertainty,” the U.S. said in its filing.  “We believe it is important to put to rest any doubts
about the ability of states and other parties to continue to
implement these critical programs and consumer protections
provided under this statute,”  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice
Department spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement announcing
the U.S. filing.  The case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, 10-cv-00091, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Florida (Pensacola).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  FIFA, UEFA Lose EU Court Appeal Over Soccer TV Rights  Soccer fans may be able to continue watching World Cup and
European Championship matches for free after a European Union
court ruled that governing bodies can’t strike exclusive pay-TV
deals for the games in the U.K. and Belgium.  FIFA and UEFA, the game’s global and European governing
bodies, lost court appeals yesterday against EU decisions
allowing nations to make the soccer tournaments available to
anyone with access to a TV set.  Restrictions are “justified” to “ensure wide public
access to television broadcasts,” the  EU General Court , the 27-
nation region’s second-highest tribunal, ruled yesterday. Recent
statistics show that the system in Belgium and the U.K. to show
the World Cup for free drew many viewers, “a significant
proportion of whom are not usually interested in football.”  A ruling in FIFA’s favor could have ended decades of
tradition in the U.K., where the World Cup, the most-watched
sporting event, must be broadcast on free-to-air television.
Yesterday’s decision echoes a non-binding opinion by an adviser
to the EU’s top court earlier this month in a case involving the
Premier League and exclusive broadcasting agreements.  UEFA said in a statement it was “disappointed” by the
ruling and “will now study the decision in detail in order to
decide on next steps.” FIFA said in an e-mail it won’t comment
on the decision.  Jonathan Todd, a spokesman for the Brussels-based
commission, said the ruling “implies that” similar lists in
other member states “are also fully compatible” with EU law.  The cases are T-385/07 FIFA v Commission; T-55/08 UEFA v
Commission; T-68/08 FIFA v Commission.  For more, click here.  AstraZeneca Said to Settle More Seroquel Lawsuits    AstraZeneca Plc  agreed to pay $150 million to settle more
lawsuits claiming its antipsychotic drug  Seroquel  causes 
diabetes , pushing the amount the drugmaker has paid to resolve
cases over the medicine to almost $350 million, people familiar
with the accords said.  AstraZeneca, the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker, will
resolve about 6,000 cases alleging the company knew Seroquel
could cause diabetes and failed to adequately warn patients, two
people familiar with the settlements said. They spoke on the
condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak
publicly about the accords. The cases settled for an average of
about $25,000 each, the people said.  The settlements signal AstraZeneca is seeking to put the
Seroquel litigation behind it as it works to overcome setbacks
in its drug-development pipeline, said Jeremy Batstone-Carr,
London-based analyst for Charles Stanley & Co., who rates the
drugmaker’s shares “accumulate.”  The settlement, which resulted from a court-ordered
mediation, leaves AstraZeneca facing about 4,000 Seroquel
claims, according to a regulatory filing. The London-based
drugmaker announced last summer it had resolved about two-thirds
of the 26,000 suits over the drug that had been filed in courts
around the U.S.    Tony Jewell , a U.S.-based spokesman for AstraZeneca,
declined to comment on the settlements in an e-mailed statement,
saying they were confidential.  The case is In Re Seroquel Products Litigation, 06-
MD-01769, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Florida
(Orlando).  For more, click here.  Satyam Computer Agrees to Pay $125 Million to Settle U.S. Suit    Satyam Computer Services Ltd ., the software services
exporter embroiled in India’s biggest corporate fraud, agreed to
pay $125 million to settle a shareholder lawsuit in federal
court in New York.  The agreement, filed Feb. 16 before U.S. District Judge
Barbara Jones in Manhattan, resolves litigation in which Satyam
argued that U.S. shareholder lawsuits should be dismissed
because its home country was the proper venue for the claims.
The judge must approve the accord at a hearing to be scheduled
later.  “This was a fairly dark cloud of uncertainty that has gone
away,” Vineet Nayyar, chairman of Satyam, said in an interview
yesterday with Bloomberg UTV. “With this uncertainty gone, it
should reinforce client confidence.”  Satyam’s shares plunged 44 percent from Sept. 22 to Nov. 29
after then Chairman Ramalinga Raju revealed an accounting fraud
estimated at 100 billion rupees ($2.2 billion) by investigators
and resigned. Investors in the U.S. filed at least a dozen
class-action lawsuits that were consolidated before Jones.  Satyam entered into the settlement to “enhance its
credibility and business opportunities in the United States
market, and eliminate the burden, expense, uncertainty and
distraction of further litigation,” according to the filing.
The company didn’t admit any wrongdoing in the accord.  The case is In re Satyam Computer Services Ltd. Securities
Litigation, 09-md-2027, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Hevesi Adviser Gets Up to 4 Years in Pension Case  Former political consultant Henry “Hank” Morris, who
pleaded guilty to securities fraud in a probe of corruption at
the New York state pension fund, must go to prison for as long
as four years, a judge said.  Morris, once chief political adviser to former state
Comptroller Alan Hevesi, was sentenced to 1 1/3 to four years
yesterday in Manhattan by New York state Supreme Court Justice
Lewis Bart Stone. Morris admitted in November that the
investment process at the pension fund was manipulated to
benefit him, his associates, and contributors to Hevesi’s
campaign.  “My actions undermined the integrity of New York state’s
government,” Morris told the judge yesterday. “For too long I
was blind to that truth.” He was taken into custody after
sentence was passed.  As part of his plea, Morris agreed to forfeit $19 million
he reaped in fees.  William Schwartz , Morris’s attorney, had
asked the judge to sentence his client to probation.  “Morris was a central player in this scheme,” Stone said
in a sentencing decision, part of which he read from the bench.  Morris was the first defendant to be sentenced of about
eight people who pleaded guilty in connection with a probe of
“pay-to-play” at the New York pension fund. In October, Hevesi
admitted to receiving a reward for official misconduct. He is
scheduled for sentencing March 10. The investigation was
conducted by former New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo, now
the state’s governor.  The case is People v. Morris, 0025/2009, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  J&J to Pay $73 Million in Legal Costs Over Risperdal    Johnson & Johnson  must pay $73 million in legal costs to
the state of Louisiana over a more than $257 million verdict
against the drugmaker over the marketing of its Risperdal
antipsychotic drug, a judge ruled.  Judge Donald Herbert in Opelousas, Louisiana, ruled last
week that J&J must pay $70 million in legal fees and $3.3
million in expenses to cover Louisiana’s costs in suing the
drugmaker over claims it defrauded the state’s Medicaid system
by touting Risperdal as superior to competing antipsychotic
drugs and minimizing its links to diabetes.  “We believe the fees are excessive,”  Michael Heinley , a
spokesman for J&J’s Ortho-McNeil Janssen Pharmaceuticals unit,
said in a Feb. 15 phone interview. Heinley said J&J will ask
Herbert to grant a new trial in the case. If he refuses, the
company will appeal the verdict and the fee award, he said.  Louisiana’s case centered on drug safety claims that J&J
and its Ortho-McNeil-Janssen unit made in November 2003
correspondence to 700,000 doctors. The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration responded with a warning letter saying J&J made
false and misleading claims that minimized the potentially fatal
risks of diabetes and overstated the drug’s superiority to
competitors.  “We’re very satisfied with the fee award and think it’s
fair and reasonable,” Pat Morrow, an Opelousas-based lawyer who
represented the state in the case, said in a Feb. 15 telephone
interview.  The case is Caldwell ex rel. State of Louisiana v. Janssen
Pharmaceutical, 04-C-3967, 27th Judicial Court, St. Landry
Parish, Louisiana (Opelousas).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 