-- 
Steel Authority Seeks to Acquire Coking Coal Mines in Mongolia

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-02-18T11:44:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/steel-authority-seeks-to-acquire-coking-coal-mines-in-mongolia.html
  Steel Authority of India Ltd ., the
nation’s second-largest producer, is seeking to purchase at
least two coking coal mines in Mongolia, which holds the world’s
largest deposit of the steelmaking raw material.  Steel Authority, in talks to build a $3 billion factory in
the land-locked North Asian country, aims to buy one mine itself
and another through a venture with other state-run metal and
energy companies, Chairman C.S. Verma told reporters today in  New Delhi . The company asked the Indian government for bi-
lateral assistance for the mines, he said, without giving
details about the size, location or time of investment.  Mongolia, which shares a border with  China  and Russia and
has some of the world’s largest untapped mineral reserves, is
seeking developers to help it feed demand for raw materials from
its neighbors, while maintaining control over the deposits. The
Tavan Tolgoi region holds more than 6 billion metric tons of
coal in the deserts of southern Mongolia.  International Coal Ventures Ltd., in which Steel Authority
holds a 26 percent stake, has bid for a Mongolian block
estimated to hold 1 billion tons of coal, Steel Secretary P.K.
Misra said on Jan. 31. As much as 70 percent of the deposit may
be coking coal, he said.    India ’s biggest steelmakers  Tata Steel Ltd ., Steel
Authority and  JSW Steel Ltd . are seeking mines overseas
following a surge in the price of coking coal. Steel Authority,
which imports about 70 percent of its requirement, is paying 66
percent more for the fuel this financial year than last year,
based on the benchmark prices.  Steel Authority shares declined 3.5 percent to 160.20
rupees at the close of trading in Mumbai. The benchmark
Sensitive Index fell 1 percent.  Steel Authority through International Coal may also bid for
some prospecting coal blocks of BHP Billiton Ltd. in South
Africa, Verma said. The board will meet on Feb. 25 to discuss
plans to buy BHP’s exploration rights in  South Africa .  BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Africa Ltd. is divesting
some coal-prospecting rights because other investor groups are
better positioned to develop them, the company said Jan. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in Delhi at 
 Rsingh133@bloomberg.net 
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  