-- 
U.S. Stocks Advance as Earnings Outweigh Chinese Lending Curb

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 
2011-02-18T21:39:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/stocks-in-u-s-fluctuate-as-earnings-reports-offset-china-s-lending-curbs.html
U.S. stocks advanced, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its third straight weekly rally, as
higher-than-estimated corporate earnings overshadowed the
Chinese central bank’s attempts to control inflation.    Caterpillar Inc . climbed 2.4 percent after machinery sales
rose 49 percent in three months.  Intuit Inc . rose 7.3 percent as
the maker of tax software forecast profit that topped estimates.  CF Industries Holdings Inc . lost 6.7 percent, leading declines
among fertilizer stocks, as wheat fell amid bets Chinese demand
will wane.  Apple Inc . fell 2.2 percent as the U.S. examines
whether its media subscription services violates antitrust laws.  The S&P 500 rose 0.2 percent to 1,343.01 at 4 p.m. in  New
York . The gauge rallied 1 percent this week and needs to rise
0.7 percent to 1,353.06 to complete a 100 percent rally from its
March 2009 low. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 73.11
points, or 0.6 percent, to 12,391.25. The stock market will be
closed Feb. 21 for a holiday.  “There’s a bullish bias in the market fueled by higher-
than-expected earnings,” said  Frederic Dickson , the Lake
Oswego, Oregon-based chief market strategist at D.A. Davidson &
Co., which oversees about $29 billion. “People are waking up
and realizing that things are stabilizing so they need to put
money to work. There might be some optimism that  China  will not
have a tsunami. There’s a perception that by moving slowly and
steadily they can curb growth back to a reasonable rate.”  Corporate Earnings  U.S. stocks have risen three straight days, sending the S&P
500 to a 32-month high, as improving corporate earnings and
manufacturing data overshadowed higher-than-forecast growth in
consumer prices. Per-share earnings topped estimates at 72
percent of the 395 companies in the  S&P 500  that reported
results since Jan. 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock-index futures fell earlier today as China’s  central
bank  raised  reserve requirements  for lenders 10 days after
boosting  interest rates  as Premier Wen Jiabao tackles
accelerating inflation. Reserve ratios will rise half a
percentage point starting Feb. 24, the  People’s Bank of China 
said on its website today. The move will lock up about 360
billion yuan ($55 billion),  Barclays Capital  said.  “There comes a point, and you’re seeing it in China, where
they’re seeing too much growth, and trying to curb it,” said
Peter Tuz, president of Chase Investment Counsel in
Charlottesville,  Virginia , which manages $1.5 billion. “The S&P
500 is reasonably valued here.” At the same time, “sentiment
is as bullish as you’ve seen it in years. That is an environment
where a pullback caused by something you and I are not thinking
of is quite likely.”  Fertilizer Stocks  Stocks of raw-materials producers had the biggest decline
in the S&P 500 within 10 industries, dropping 1 percent.  Fertilizer stocks slid as the price of wheat declined for a
third time in four days on speculation that China’s demand for
grain and oilseed will ease after the country took steps to curb
inflation.  CF Industries , the world’s second-largest maker of
nitrogen fertilizer, lost 6.7 percent to $137.87.  Mosaic Co .
fell 4.3 percent to $83.02.  Monsanto Co ., the world’s largest
seed company, lost 2.4 percent to $72.39.  European Central Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said the bank may need to raise interest rates as global
inflation pressures mount.  “As the economy gradually recovers and global inflationary
pressures arise, the degree of accommodation of monetary policy
has to be monitored and, if needed, corrected,” Bini Smaghi
said in an interview with daily newsletter Bloomberg Brief:
Economics.  Economic Imbalances  Group of 20 policy makers, at odds over smoothing over
global economic imbalances, confront a new threat as higher
inflation ripples from emerging markets to advanced economies. A
report of greater-than-expected U.S. inflation yesterday
followed a jump in the European cost-of-living index to a two-
year high and a pickup in Chinese prices, further fraying a
tentative global consensus over how to sustain the recovery.  Caterpillar added 2.4 percent, the biggest gain in the Dow
average, to $105.86. The world’s largest maker of construction
equipment said retail sales of machinery rose 49 percent
worldwide in the three-month period ended in January.  Intuit gained 7.3 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$54.11. The provider of tax and personal-finance software
boosted its forecast for full-year profit excluding some items
to as much as $2.48. The average analyst prediction in a
Bloomberg survey is for earnings of $2.41 cents a share.  Brocade, Apple    Brocade Communications Systems Inc . advanced 6 percent to
$6.38. The biggest maker of switches for data-storage networks
forecast fiscal second-quarter earnings of 10 cents a share
excluding some items, beating the 9-cent average analyst
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Apple slumped 2.2 percent to $350.56. The U.S.  Justice
Department  and the  Federal Trade Commission  are beginning to
examine whether Apple’s new media subscription service violates
antitrust laws, according to two people familiar with the
matter. The agencies haven’t decided whether to pursue a more
formal investigation as the examination is at a preliminary
stage, said the people, who requested anonymity because the
matter is confidential.    Campbell Soup Co . sank 3.9 percent to $33.58. Sales may
fall as much as 1 percent, the soup maker said. That compared
with a previous forecast of at least a 1 percent gain. Earnings
per share will fall as much as 3 percent, compared with an
earlier target of a gain of up to 4 percent.  Limit-Up/Limit-Down  U.S. equity markets should limit price moves before
resorting to the current technique of halting a stock when it
fluctuates a certain amount, according to a report today from
advisers to regulators.  The system, known as limit-up/limit-down, would prevent
prices from moving beyond specified bands based on trading in
the previous five minutes and trigger pauses only if liquidity,
or trading interest, remains insufficient during the period, the
advisers to the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission said.  Exchanges implemented single-stock circuit breakers after
the 20-minute rout on May 6 erased $862 billion from the value
of U.S. shares before prices rebounded. The pause lasts five
minutes for Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and  Russell 1000 Index 
companies as well as  more than 300  exchange-traded funds when
they rise or fall at least 10 percent within five minutes.
Today’s report recommends expanding the program to “all but the
most inactively traded” stocks, ETFs and derivatives.  Limit-up/limit-down “really is a more efficient system,”
said Mike Shea, a managing partner and trader at Direct Access
Partners LLC in New York. “I can only think of a couple
instances since the circuit breakers were put in place where a
stock was halted for something other than a single clearly
erroneous print.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Stanton in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  