-- 
SEC May Risk Harming Investors With ‘Trade-At Rule’ for Stocks

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a ,   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-19T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/stock-markets-require-limit-up-limit-down-system-sec-cftc-advisers-say.html
Individual investors could be hurt
should regulators alter an equities-trading rule limiting the
prices at which brokers can execute orders away from public
markets, an executive at  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp . said.  An eight-member committee urged the Securities and Exchange
Commission in a report yesterday to adopt a restriction called a
trade-at rule. It would prevent venues and brokerages from
executing orders within their walls unless they improve pricing
by a specified amount versus the market’s best level.  The change is designed to limit the amount of trading on
private venues, including dark pools, that represent about 30
percent of the market.  NYSE Euronext  and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc .,
the biggest operators of U.S. exchanges, argue the transactions
impair price discovery, or investors’ ability to determine the
best prices based on buying and selling interest. While the rule
may shift more orders to public markets, it may also mean retail
investors won’t get prices that are as good as what they now
receive, TD Ameritrade’s Christopher Nagy said.  “I was disappointed,” Nagy, a managing director for order
routing, sales and strategy at the third-largest retail
brokerage by client assets, said in an interview. “The report
appears to be a politically motivated stalking horse to
implement the trade-at rule. A trade-at would serve to increase
costs for retail investors by creating an inconsistent trading
experience.”    Joseph Stiglitz   The committee, created by the SEC and Commodity Futures
Trading Commission after the 20-minute plunge on May 6 erased
$862 billion from U.S. shares before prices recovered, gave 14
recommendations for improving regulation. Members include Joseph Stiglitz, an economist who won the  Nobel Prize ; David Ruder, a
former SEC chairman; Brooksley E. Born, who was chairman of the
CFTC; and John J. Brennan, chairman emeritus and senior adviser
at mutual-fund operator Vanguard Group Inc.  The trade-at rule "might affect the business models of a
number of firms," Maureen O’Hara, a committee member and finance
professor at  Cornell University  in Ithaca,  New York , said at a
meeting in  Washington  yesterday. "This is not a trivial change."  TD Ameritrade’s retail customers usually get better prices
from wholesale brokers, such as Chicago-based Citadel LLC, who
trade against the orders within their own walls instead of
sending them to the public marketplace, Nagy said. The trade-at
rule may provide a disincentive to wholesalers, who may not be
able to offer the requisite level of price improvement or pay as
much to retail brokers for the orders, he added. The result may
lead to investors paying more for executions as brokers seek to
cover the lost payments.  Half a Cent  The advisory group suggested that brokers provide price
improvement of half a cent per share if they want to
internalize, or trade against, a customer’s order.  Citadel,  Knight Capital Group Inc . of  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey , and other brokers that execute retail orders for
securities firms usually improve the prices they provide beyond
what’s publicly available, as well as pay retail brokers, such
as Omaha, Nebraska-based TD Ameritrade, for sending trade
requests to them.  The SEC introduced rules in 2007 that prohibit exchanges
and brokers from executing orders at prices worse than the best
available quote on a public venue. The rule aimed to tie
together a marketplace composed of several dozen trading venues
by requiring them to respect the best published price.  “While such a routing regime provides order execution at
the current best displayed price, it does so at the expense of
the limit order posting a best price which need not receive
execution,” the committee’s report said. “An alternative
framework is a ‘trade at’ regime in which orders must be routed
to one or more markets with the best displayed price.”  Right Problem  By seeking to limit trading off public markets, the
advisers focused on the right problem, said Joe Ratterman,
Kansas City, Missouri-based chief executive officer of Bats
Global Markets, the fourth-largest operator of U.S. exchanges
last month. A broad trade-at rule could affect exchanges, which
allow investors to use hidden orders, and would be the
“regulatory equivalent of a sledgehammer," he said.  ‘‘Exchanges would be hampered from providing price
improvement’’ unless they were displaying quotes at the best
price, he said. ‘‘There are subtler ways to swing the pendulum
of dark liquidity to a healthier level.’’  Data Vendors  Ratterman said the SEC could alter the formula used to
allocate the hundreds of millions of dollars in annual fees
exchanges collectively get from data vendors such as New York-
based  Thomson Reuters Corp . and Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News. The current formula, which the SEC changed in
2005, allocates half the money to exchanges based on their
quotations and half based on their trades. He said regulators
could also adjust the so-called fair-access level at which dark
pools must make their orders publicly available.  Half of the committee’s recommendations didn’t call for
specific actions, instead saying regulators should explore or
examine potential rule changes. The committee could have been
‘‘a little bit more specific,” said John Bates, chief
technology officer at  Progress Software Corp . and a member of
the CFTC’s group of technology advisers.  The committee also recommended that U.S. equity markets
limit price moves before resorting to the current technique of
halting a stock when it fluctuates a certain amount. The system,
known as limit-up/limit-down, would prevent prices from moving
outside bands based on trading in the previous five minutes and
would trigger pauses only if liquidity, or trading interest,
remains insufficient during the period, the committee said.    S&P 500 , ETFs  Exchanges implemented single-stock circuit breakers after
the May 6 rout. The pause lasts five minutes for Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and  Russell 1000 Index  companies as well as 
more than 300  exchange-traded funds when they rise or fall at
least 10 percent within five minutes. The committee recommended
expanding the program to “all but the most inactively traded”
stocks, ETFs and related derivatives.  Limit-up/limit-down “really is a more efficient system,”
said Mike Shea, a managing partner and trader at Direct Access
Partners LLC in New York. “I can only think of a couple
instances since the circuit breakers were put in place where a
stock was halted for something other than a single clearly
erroneous print.”  The circuit breakers, which started in June, have been
triggered by at least 21 companies, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg News. The five-minute halt “has been particularly
problematic in a number of situations in which a single
erroneous trade triggered the pause,” according to the report.
The recommended system is “highly desirable if it operates as a
supplement to the present process.”  High-Frequency Traders  Regulators should consider implementing fees for market
participants when they exceed a specified level of order
cancellations relative to executions, according to the report.
Those fees would be aimed at high-frequency traders, who have a
“disproportionate impact” on market data traffic and
exchanges’ costs for conducting surveillance, the advisers said.
Fees would help ensure that the costs of that activity are borne
by those responsible for the increase in market data.  “Algorithmic trading, high-frequency trading poses some
special problems in terms of orderly trading on the markets,”
Born, the former CFTC chairman, said at the event in Washington.
“The high percentage of order cancellations I think could well
be considered a disruptive trading practice that should be
looked at very carefully by the commissions.”  Create Incentives  The  committee  urged regulators to consider incentives for
market participants to supply liquidity in various conditions
including times of high volatility. The report recommended
exchanges consider a “peak load” pricing strategy in which
they charge higher fees to execute orders against bids and
offers and provide bigger rebates to traders adding liquidity
when prices are fluctuating more. That could ensure there’s more
liquidity during “bad times,” the report said.  “I don’t think any of this will make a difference when
markets decline,” Nagy said. “The solution is to pause trading
and let the fear subside. Limit up/limit down is the most
important change we can put into the marketplace.”  The committee said regulators should consider switching the
benchmark that triggers  market-wide  circuit breakers that stop
trading across securities and futures exchanges to the S&P 500
instead of the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . Regulators should
also reassess the amount the index must decline before the
market-wide circuit breaker is triggered. The initial trading
halt should be reduced to as little as 10 minutes, the group
said. It also said the circuit breaker should be allowed to be
triggered until 3:30 p.m. New York time.  Better Measure  “It just seemed to us to be a better representation of the
markets, if you will, and not coincidentally has some cross-
market characteristics that seemed to us to make it a better
benchmark,” Vanguard’s Brennan said at the event in Washington.  The eight-person group recommended the CFTC and Chicago-
based  CME Group Inc ., the largest U.S. futures exchange
operator, consider whether safeguards beyond a five-second
trading curb on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange is warranted.
The price-based limit let S&P 500 futures rebound after a
trigger was hit on May 6. Most equity exchanges didn’t have a
similar mechanism for stocks.  The advisers said the CFTC should impose "strict
supervisory requirements" on futures brokers sponsoring trading
by firms using algorithms, which slice a larger order into
smaller pieces and execute them over a period of time. The SEC
adopted risk controls and stronger supervisory requirements for
brokers in November.  A trader’s use of an algorithm to execute an S&P 500
futures order on May 6 helped set off the chain of events that
sent the Dow down as much as 998.50 points, the SEC and CFTC
said in a report on Oct. 1. Two people with knowledge of the
findings identified the company as  Waddell & Reed Financial
Inc ., an  Overland Park , Kansas-based mutual-fund company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;  Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  