-- 
SunPower Rises on Higher Guidance, U.S. Market Outlook

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-02-18T21:40:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/sunpower-climbs-after-raising-guidance-for-first-quarter-full-year.html
  SunPower Corp . reached an 11-month
high after the  San Jose , California-based solar panel maker
raised first quarter and full-year guidance.  SunPower gained 61 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $18.04 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Earlier the shares climbed 14
percent to $19.88, the highest intra-day price since March 19.  The company expects to earn 15 cents to 21 cents a share in
the current quarter and $2 to $2.20 a share for the year,
according to a statement released after the close of regular
trading yesterday.  SunPower forecast in November earnings of $1.75 to $2.05 a
share for the year.  Solar projects in the U.S. will generate about 45 percent
to 50 percent of SunPower’s sales in 2011 and that share will
likely increase in 2012, as the country is now the “fastest
growing market with the highest visibility and without
substantial policy risk,” Jessie Pichel, an analyst at
Jefferies Group Inc. in  New York , said today in a research note.  Pichel upgraded SunPower to “buy” from “hold” on the
company’s “significantly better outlook, improved transparency,
and execution on its project backlog,” according to the note.  Caris & Co. analyst Ben Pang also raised his recommendation
to “above average” from “average.” Pichel and Pang both
raised their 12-month targets to $22 a share.  Sales in  Italy   Italy, which has the second-largest solar market in  Europe 
after  Germany , accounted for about a third of SunPower’s panel
sales last year, a share the company expects to fall below 25
percent in 2011, Chief Financial Officer Dennis Arriola said
yesterday during a conference call  with analysts.  SunPower expects to sell about 400 megawatts of panels in
the U.S. this year, out of a forecast total of 920 megawatts,
the company said in a  presentation  that accompanied its
earnings. It signed in January a contract to build for  Edison
International  utility Southern California Edison three solar
projects. They will have total capacity of 711 megawatts and are
expected to be complete in 2016.  Christine Hersey, an analyst with Wedbush Securities in  Los
Angeles , maintains an “underperform” recommendation on the
stock. She expects the company’s solar power systems business to
come under pressure as U.S. construction and engineering firms
install panels bought directly from lower-cost Chinese
manufacturers.  Zachry Holdings Inc., a San Antonio-based engineering,
procurement and construction company, for example, is building a
150-megawatt project in Arizona using panels from Wuxi, China-
based Suntech Power Holdings Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  