-- 
Swaziland Cuts Spending, Caps Wages as Fiscal Deficit Rises to 13% of GDP

-- B y   V u y i s i l e   H l a t s h w a y o
-- 
2011-02-18T10:11:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/swaziland-fiscal-deficit-to-narrow-to-7-5-of-gdp-minister-says.html
  Swaziland  plans to slash spending
and raise taxes to ease a  budget crisis  after the fiscal deficit
widens to 13 percent of gross domestic product this financial
year, Finance Minister Majozi Sithole said.  The government will reduce spending on goods and service by
20 percent to cut the deficit to 7.5 percent of GDP in the year
through March 2012, Sithole said in a budget speech today
presented to parliament in Mbabane, the capital. State-employee
salaries will be frozen and a voluntary retirement program will
be offered. Value added tax will be introduced, after
consultation, and income tax rates will be reviewed, he said.  “Swaziland’s wage bill stands today at around 18 percent
of our gross domestic product, the highest in Sub-Saharan
Africa,” Sithole said. “Unless this trend of expenditure is
addressed with speed in the medium term, the government will no
longer be able to pay salaries in the near future.” State wages
account for half of all  government spending , he said.  Africa’s last absolute monarchy, a land-locked country of
1.2 million people neighboring  South Africa , is facing an
economic crisis after a slump in receipts from a regional
customs union that makes up 60 percent of government revenue. It
started an International Monetary Fund recovery program last
year, asked the  African Development Bank  for a $100 million loan
and plans to raise domestic debt by offering bonds.  The government used foreign reserves in 2010 as revenue
from the  Southern African Customs Union  declined because of
lower imports during a recession in South Africa in 2009. SACU
pools customs income between South Africa, Botswana,  Namibia ,  Lesotho  and Swaziland.  Plug the Gap  Reserves fell 31 percent to 4.5 billion emalangeni ($625
million) in 2010 compared with a year earlier, representing less
than 3 months of import-cover, Sithole said.  “The past gains are being eroded in the aftermath of the
recent global economic downturn as government has had to plug
the gap in its finances by drawing down on its reserves and
borrowing domestically,” he said. “To continue along this path
can lead to a devastating financial crisis which will result in
serious economic hardships.”  Swaziland is considering an international tender for a 3G
mobile-phone operator license and plans to offer a stake in the
state-owned  Swazi Bank , Sithole said.  The economy is forecast to expand by 3.3 percent in 2011
after growing an estimated 2 percent last year, he said. The
southern African nation’s economy will expand 0.5 percent this
year, according to the IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vuyisile Hlathswayo in Mbabane at 
 vshlathswayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  