-- 
Retail Sales in U.K. Soar as Consumers Resume Spending After Record Freeze

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-18T10:55:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/u-k-january-retail-sales-jump-on-rebound-from-coldest-december-in-century.html
U.K. retail sales rose almost four
times as much as economists forecast in January as  consumer
spending  rebounded after the coldest December in a century.  Sales gained 1.9 percent from the previous month, when they
fell a revised 1.4 percent as snow and freezing temperatures
kept Britons from shopping, the  Office for National Statistics 
said today in  London . The gain was the biggest since February
2010 and exceeded the 0.5 percent median forecast of 22
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. From a year earlier,
sales increased 5.3 percent.  Services and construction industries also rebounded last
month after weather-related slumps, and today’s data add to
evidence that the economy’s 0.5 percent contraction in the
fourth quarter may have been a temporary setback to the
recovery. Nevertheless, retailers may face pressure this year,
as inflation accelerates to more than double the Bank of
England’s target and tax increases crimp spending power.  “It’s a big rebound,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at
IHS Global Insight in London. “But with rising inflation and
low wage growth squeezing incomes and high unemployment and
speculation of a rise in  interest rates , I have serious concerns
about consumer spending this year.”  The pound rose as much as 0.3 percent against the dollar
after the data were published. It traded at $1.6198 as of 10:27
a.m. in London.  Government bonds  declined, with the yield on the
10-year gilt rising 1 basis point to 3.77 percent.  Tax and Snow    Kingfisher Plc , Europe’s largest home-improvement retailer,
said yesterday it expects a “particularly tricky” first half,
with only a “slightly better second half” as a value-added tax
increase and public-sector job cuts discourage spending.  Underlining the fragility of the labor market, jobless
claims unexpectedly rose in January, while unemployment based on
International Labor Organization methods rose by 44,000 in the
fourth quarter to 2.49 million.  The  Council of Mortgage Lenders  said in a separate report
today that U.K. gross mortgage lending fell 13 percent in
January from the previous month. It also said banks may continue
to curb credit as they face a funding “challenge.”  The retail data showed sales at “non-specialized stores,”
which includes department stores, jumped 5.7 percent in January
from December and were up 10.7 percent on the year. Food sales
rose 0.3 percent on the month and fell 2.3 percent on the year.
Clothing and shoe sales rose 3.4 percent on the month.  Internet Sales  The statistics office said the tax increase and the
freezing weather affected demand in December and January and it
estimated sales growth of 0.5 percent over the two months.  Internet sales accounted for 10 percent of all retail
sales, compared with 7.6 percent a year earlier. Average weekly
internet sales in January amounted to 523 million pounds ($847
million), the statistics office said.  The food-store price deflator, a measure of annual price
changes, rose to 5.2 percent in January from 5 percent in
December. The deflator for all retail sales was 2.7 percent.
Consumer-price inflation accelerated to 4 percent in January,
data this week showed. The rate may rise further as retailers
pass on January’s sales-tax increase.  The  Bank of England  said this week that inflation will
accelerate to 4.4 percent this year before easing to its 2
percent target by the middle of 2012. Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said yesterday the projection is “too optimistic” and
the bank should raise interest rates to tame price pressures.  Excluding fuel, sales increase 1.6 percent in January from
December and were up 5.3 percent on the year.  Sports Direct
International Plc , the U.K.’s No. 1 sporting-goods retailer,
said yesterday that sales for the 13 weeks to Jan. 23 rose 14
percent and the underlying performance has been “strong.”  “While we expected there to be some clawback from
December’s dismal, snow-hit retail sales, today’s jump is a
welcome surprise,” said  Hetal Mehta , an economist at Daiwa
Capital Markets  Europe  in London. Even so, it “seems
inconceivable that consumer spending will act as the driving
force of the economy over the near term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  