-- 
Apple Subscription Service Said to Draw U.S. Antitrust Regulator Scrutiny

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-02-18T22:06:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/u-s-said-to-examine-apple-subscription-service-for-antitrust-violations.html
The U.S. Justice Department and the
 Federal Trade Commission  are examining whether  Apple Inc .’s new 
media subscription service violates antitrust laws, according 
to two people familiar with the matter.  The agencies haven’t decided whether to pursue a more
formal investigation as the examination is at a preliminary
stage, said the people, who requested anonymity because the
matter is confidential. The Wall Street Journal reported today
on the preliminary probes.  Apple on Feb. 15 said it was starting a subscription
service for publishers to sell newspapers and magazines on the
iPad and other devices through the company’s online App Store.
Cupertino, California-based Apple will take a 30 percent cut of
any subscription purchased through the App Store. Publishers
that participate will have to offer their lowest subscription
rates within Apple’s store.  The following day,  Google Inc . unveiled a rival service
that lets the company keep only 10 percent of fees charged by
publishers.  Apple’s plan is “economically untenable,” said Jon Irwin,
president of online music provider Rhapsody International Inc.,
in an e-mailed statement Feb. 15.  Publishers’ Concern  The Apple service also will prevent publications themselves
from providing different pricing and special subscription offers
to readers, said John Sturm, chief executive officer of the
 Newspaper Association of America , an Arlington, Virginia-based
industry group.  “It appears to us that Apple is now insinuating themselves
between us and our customer in a way that makes it difficult for
the publishers to succeed long term,” he said in an interview.  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the  Justice Department ,
declined to comment, as did an FTC spokeswoman.  Trudy Muller , a
spokeswoman for Apple, also declined to comment.  Content providers are working with Google and Apple to make
their wares available in more ways, including on mobile devices,
as sales of paper magazines and newspapers slump.  Apple’s App Store offers more than 350,000 applications to
users of the iPhone, iPod and iPad, according to the company.
About $1.1 billion of applications were sold through the App
Store in 2010, making Apple’s revenue share about $317 million,
according to estimates from  Brian Marshall , an analyst at
Gleacher & Co. in  San Francisco .  The FTC has been reviewing separate allegations that Apple
is engaging in anti-competitive tactics to restrict rivals in
the mobile-advertising market. The  Justice Department  is looking
into Apple’s business practices regarding its iTunes digital
music service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 