-- 
U.S. House May Cancel Tax-Reporting Rules in Health-Care Law Next Month

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-02-18T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/u-s-house-may-cancel-tax-reporting-rules-in-health-care-law.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
will vote as soon as next month on a measure to eliminate a tax-
reporting requirement from last year’s health-care law that is
opposed by many small businesses.  Members of both parties have criticized the rules, which
require that businesses report to the government payments to
corporations for goods or property exceeding $600 per payee each
year. Companies have been complaining about the requirement,
which they say would create an onerous paperwork burden,
particularly for small businesses.  “This is a win-win-win for taxpayers,” House Ways and
Means Chairman David Camp, a Michigan Republican, said Feb. 17
before his committee voted 21-15 along party lines to advance a
bill on the issue. Democrats voted against the repeal because
they said it includes a revenue-raising provision that would
harm middle-class families.  To make up for the $22 billion in  tax revenue  that the
provision was projected to generate over the next decade, the
bill would require people who receive overpayments of health
insurance tax credits to pay back more money to the government.
Those credits will be available starting in 2014.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia said
Republicans hope to bring the measure “to the floor this
spring.” A House floor vote might come as soon as the week of
Feb. 28, said a House Republican leadership aide, who asked not
to be identified because plans aren’t completed.  1099 Provision  Lawmakers have been debating for months over how to address
the so-called 1099 provision, named for the Internal Revenue
Service form that it requires. President  Barack Obama  called the
reporting rules a “flaw” in the health-care law in his Jan. 25
State of the Union address.  In the budget he released Feb. 14, Obama proposed
curtailing the requirement. In his budget plan, businesses would
be required to file reports to the IRS for payments to
corporations for services and not for goods. They already must
report payments to non-corporations for services.  The Senate voted Feb. 2 to eliminate the 1099 provision and
pay for the change by rescinding previously approved spending.  Senator  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat and senior
member of the Finance Committee, said he opposes the new House
revenue-raising provision, raising doubts about how quickly the
bill can become law.  “I’m not a fan of their proposal,” he said in an
interview.  Democrats conceded that the provision in the health-care
law wasn’t well crafted. They also said that it attempts to
address a real problem of underreporting of taxable income.  The revenue-raising provisions in the House bill approved
today would require people to repay the federal government when
they receive a larger credit than they were due, which could
occur if income rises during the year. The credits are paid
directly to health insurers.  Repayment Rules  Under the overhaul, as amended by separate legislation
enacted last December, the U.S. can reclaim between $300 and
$1,750 from individuals on a sliding income scale as much as 500
percent of the federal poverty level. The law requires anyone
with an income of at least five times the poverty level to
return the full subsidy.  The Republican bill would increase the amount that some
subsidy recipients would have to repay, lowering the income
threshold for full repayment to 400 percent of poverty.  “If you’re interested in the integrity of this program and
the integrity of the  tax code , then this is something that
should be common sense,” said Louisiana Republican Charles Boustany.  An aggressive policy of reclaiming past overpayments of tax
subsidies could create disincentives for people to seek
assistance out of concerns over future tax liability if their
income were to change, said Len Nichols, the director of the
Center for Health Policy Research and Ethics at  George Mason
University  in Fairfax, Virginia.  ‘Aggressive Clawback’  “An extremely aggressive clawback will make people
reluctant to take the subsidy in the first place,” he said by
telephone yesterday.  Thomas Barthold, chief of staff of the Joint Committee on
Taxation, said the change would increase the number of uninsured
people by 265,000 in 2016.  Democrats opposed the changes to the health subsidies,
calling them tax increases and saying they would prefer the
Senate’s approach. Those offsets include curtailing tax
provisions that benefit multinational corporations or imposing
limits on tax provisions that benefit oil and gas companies.  “The people who are most affected by this are poor and
middle-class families who are already struggling to make ends
meet,” said Representative Shelley Berkley, a Nevada Democrat.  The Ways and Means bill also would eliminate information-
reporting requirements for some payments made by owners of
rental property. Those were included in a small-business law
enacted last September.  The committee also approved a separate bill that would
eliminate the 1099 requirement without offsets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  