-- 
U.S. Geologist Loses China Appeal on Secrets Charge

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-18T06:12:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/u-s-geologist-loses-china-appeal-on-state-secrets-charge.html
A Chinese court rejected an appeal
by a U.S. geologist jailed for eight years in July for breaching
state secrets by buying data on the nation’s oil industry, his
lawyer said.  The Beijing High People’s Court “upheld the verdict” of
Xue Feng, lawyer Tong Wei told reporters outside the court. The
administration of President  Barack Obama  and members of Congress
have pushed for China to release Xue.  U.S. Ambassador to China Jon Huntsman, who attended the
hearing, said he was “extremely disappointed in the outcome,”
though it wasn’t unexpected. Huntsman said he was concerned over
Xue’s health.  “We ask the Chinese government to consider an immediate
humanitarian release of Xue Feng, thereby allowing him to get
back to his family and his way of life,” Huntsman told
reporters after meeting with Xue following the decision. Xue was
“surprisingly stoic and strong” following the verdict,
Huntsman said.  On Jan. 31 Huntsman, 50, a former Republican governor of  Utah , announced he was leaving his ambassador’s post at the end
of April amid speculation that he will enter the 2012 U.S.
presidential race.  Congressional Pressure  Republican lawmakers including  Florida ’s Ileana Ros- Lehtinen, the head of the House Committee on  Foreign Affairs ,
pushed President  Hu Jintao  to free Xue during Hu’s state visit
to the U.S. last month. Ros-Lehtinen  handed  a letter to Hu which
criticized Xue’s treatment.  “If he wants to be president, he better get Xue Feng
released into his custody before  Bill Clinton  comes over there
and gets it done,” Terry Sullivan, a presidential scholar
at the University of  North Carolina , said of Huntsman. “Now
that would be presidential.”  The database that Xue bought and was planning to sell to a
U.S. company contained detailed information on the state of the
Chinese oil industry, AP reported.  China ’s three biggest oil
companies are state-owned.  The case highlights China’s use of the law to protect
economic information, and came after the jailing of four Rio
Tinto Group executives strained relations with  Australia . Groups
including the U.S.-China Business Council have criticized
China’s definition of state secrets as too broad. China said the
case was handled according to the nation’s law and rejected
criticism that the sentence was unfair.  Legal Changes  China in April passed legal changes aimed at making
individuals, companies and organizations more responsible for
protecting state secrets, according to amendments approved by
legislators at the time.  State secrets include information that may damage the
nation in fields ranging from defense and diplomacy to
“national, economic and development projects” and technology.
The government also has the power to label anything else a state
secret, according to the amendments passed in April.  Three Chinese nationals were sentenced with Xue. Li Yongbo,
a manager at Beijing Licheng Zhongyou Oil Technology Development
Co., was sentenced to eight years and fined 200,000 yuan, AP
reported, citing Xue’s lawyer Tong Wei. Chen Mengjin and Li
Dongxu, who worked at a research institute affiliated with
PetroChina Co., were each given 2 1/2 year sentences and fined
50,000 yuan, according to AP.  Former Rio Tinto executive  Stern Hu , an Australian citizen,
was detained in July 2009 with three colleagues. They were
initially accused of stealing state secrets, with the
accusations later reduced to bribery and infringing commercial
secrets.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  