-- 
U.S. Senate Approves FAA Bill, Settles Airport Fight

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-02-18T02:19:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/u-s-senate-approves-faa-bill-settles-reagan-airport-fight.html
The  U.S. Senate  approved $34.6
billion of funding for the Federal Aviation Administration after
resolving a dispute over the number of new flights to a
federally owned airport near Washington.  Senators voted 87-8 today for the two years of funding.
Yesterday, Representative John Mica, a Florida Republican, won
approval from the House transportation committee for $59.7
billion for four years of FAA funding. Once that bill receives
full House approval, the measure will go to a House-Senate
conference committee for lawmakers from both bodies to reconcile
and agree upon.  The FAA funding bill was the Senate’s first order of
business this year. The disagreement over Washington flights was
one of the issues that had delayed renewal of FAA funding for
more than three years. The agency has operated on 17 temporary
extensions, the most recent of which expires March 31.  Lawmakers agreed to more than double the number of daily
round-trip flights between Ronald Reagan  Washington  National
Airport and the western U.S. to 28 from 12 now, Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, a Texas Republican, said today in the Senate.  “We do now have a breakthrough and a way forward,”
Hutchison said when announcing the airport agreement.  Senate, House Versions  To complete the deal, senators must agree on which cities
in the western U.S. will get the new flights and reconcile their
draft with that of the House. The version approved yesterday by
the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee allows
five additional flights between Reagan and the western U.S.  The number of long-distance flights to Reagan National has
been limited since 1966 because of noise concerns, and to
bolster growth at Washington Dulles International Airport.  Cities with direct flights from Reagan include Denver,
Phoenix,  Seattle , Salt Lake City,  Las Vegas  and  Los Angeles . The
carriers that operate them are  US Airways Group Inc .,  Alaska Air
Group Inc .,  Republic Airways Holdings Inc .’s Frontier Airlines,  Delta Air Lines Inc . and  United Continental Holdings Inc .  Before approving the FAA funding bill, senators rejected
61-38 an attempt by Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican,
to end a $200 million federal program to subsidize airline
flights to rural areas.  Rural Airports  The Senate did approve amendments by Senator Tom Coburn, an
Oklahoma Republican, that limit the subsidies to locations that
average at least 10 passengers a day and are located at least 90
miles from the nearest airport. The Transportation Department
would be allowed to waive the 90-mile requirement in certain
cases, such as when geographic limits make the nearest airport
difficult to reach.  The Senate FAA legislation would help convert the nation’s
air-traffic system to satellite-based technology from ground-
based radars by ensuring that the first $500 million in aviation
taxes collected be reserved for modernization.  The bill would require the FAA to implement satellite-based
procedures, which let airlines fly more direct routes in and out
of landing strips, at the busiest 35 airports by 2014 and for
the national airspace system by 2018.  It also directs the FAA to plan a system that would alert
pilots to near-misses with other aircraft on runways.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hughes in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 