-- 
U.S. Vetoes Palestinian Bid at UN to Halt Israeli Settlements

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-02-19T15:39:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/u-s-vetoes-palestinian-bid-at-un-to-halt-israeli-settlement-construction.html
The U.S. vetoed a draft resolution
in the  United Nations   Security Council  that would have declared
Israel’s settlement construction in the West Bank and East
Jerusalem to be illegal and demanded a halt to such activity.  The U.S., while “rejecting in the strongest terms the
legitimacy of continued Israeli settlement activity,” voted
against the measure out of concern for the impact on the future
of Israeli-Palestinian peace talks, Ambassador  Susan Rice  said.  The Obama administration sought until the final hours
before yesterday’s vote to reach agreement with Arab diplomats
on a compromise statement that would have increased pressure on
Israel to cease settlement construction, while stopping short of
calling it illegal or demanding a moratorium.  The Palestinian Authority rejected the proposal and
notified U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , according to a
statement from the office of Palestinian Authority President
Mahmoud Abbas. Clinton stressed yesterday that finding a “two-
state solution” remains a top U.S. goal.  “It’s been American policy for many years that settlements
were illegitimate and it is the continuing goal and highest
priority of the Obama administration to keep working toward a
two-state solution with both Israelis and Palestinians,”
Clinton told ABC’s “This Week” taped yesterday and scheduled
to air tomorrow.  The U.S. was alone in opposing the measure on the 15-member
council, the UN’s principal policy-making panel. It was the
administration’s first veto of a UN resolution and marked the
10th time in the past 11 years that the U.S. has voted against a
text considered to be critical of  Israel .  Risk to Negotiations  “Every potential action must be measured against one
overriding standard: Will it move the parties closer to
negotiations and an agreement?” Rice said. “Unfortunately,
this draft resolution risks hardening the positions of both
sides. It could encourage the parties to stay out of
negotiations.”  The veto, coming amid widespread protests against
autocratic rulers in the Middle East and North Africa, may
divert attention toward anti-American and anti-Israeli
sentiments in the region and complicate Obama administration
efforts to mediate peace talks, Middle East analysts said.  “The U.S. has a long history of trying to prevent the
 United Nations  from becoming an instrument to coerce Israel, but
I think in normal circumstances the U.S. veto would be less
uncomfortable,” Stewart Patrick, senior fellow at the  Council
on Foreign Relations  in  Washington , said in an interview. “They
have a huge priority not to change the subject of the
conversation from oppression of Arabs and Muslims by their own
autocratic governments.”  Veto Impact  The peace talks, which broke down in September after
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu refused to extend a
10-month partial construction freeze in the West Bank, will be
more difficult for the U.S. to restart following the veto,
according to Robert Danin, onetime aide to former U.K. Prime
Minister  Tony Blair , the Middle East envoy for the Quartet,
which is comprised of the U.S., the UN,  Russia  and the European
Union.  “The administration will feel they offered a very strong
package in the form of a statement critical of Israel and
instead were forced to cast the veto, something they did not
want to do,” Danin said in an interview. “There will be a lot
of frustration with the Palestinians and with Israel for not
having been helpful on the settlements issue.”  Offer to Arabs    Palestinian Authority  Ambassador Riyad Mansour said Rice
offered U.S. support for stronger statements on settlement
construction and other issues in the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict by the Security Council and the Quartet, and suggested
the U.S. would consider backing a proposed  Security Council  trip
to the Middle East. In exchange, the Palestinians would have had
to agree to withdraw the resolution.  The Arabs and Palestinian Authority rejected the deal,
saying their resolution incorporated previous language on
settlements used by the U.S. government and the Security
Council. The  Press Trust of India  reported that in a phone
conversation Feb. 17 President  Barack Obama  told Abbas there
would be “repercussions” for the U.S.-Palestinian relationship
in the event the resolution was put to a vote.  Palestinian Goal  “Our overreaching goal remains to bring an end to Israeli
colonization of our land and destruction of the two-state
solution and create an appropriate environment and dynamic for
the continuation and ultimate success of genuine peace
negotiations,” Mansour said after the vote. “It is high time
to send a clear and firm message to Israel that it must comply
with international obligations.”  Obama last year offered Israel a package of incentives to
halt settlements that included a pledge to block such proposed
resolutions in the Security Council, and then abandoned attempts
in December to broker a freeze on construction after Israel
refused to halt building.  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the  West Bank  and East
Jerusalem since Israel captured the territories in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory.  Criticism of U.S.  New York-based  Human Rights Watch  released a statement
criticizing the U.S. veto as undermining enforcement of
international law.  “The U.S. government’s opposition to accurate language in
the Security Council resolution erodes the unified international
message that Israel should change its settlement policies,”
Sarah Leah Whitson, Middle East director, said. “What’s needed
from the Obama administration is a clear and consistent message
that settlements on occupied territory are illegal and must be
dismantled.”  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  “Direct negotiations have been and still remain the only
way forward to resolve the longstanding conflict in the
region,” Israel’s Ambassador Meron Reuben said. “This process
in its adversarial nature is likely to harm ongoing attempts to
resume negotiations. It sends the wrong message to the
Palestinians, signaling they can avoid the negotiating table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  