-- 
U.S. Apartment Construction Climbs With More Renters

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-02-18T21:37:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/u-s-apartment-construction-climbs-as-more-renters-crimp-supply.html
Bentall Kennedy  plans to break
ground by June on a 654-unit luxury-apartment complex in
downtown  Seattle , a $200 million wager by the real estate firm
that it will be cheaper to build than buy as the foreclosure
crisis drives up demand for U.S. rental properties.  The project, at Sixth Avenue between Lenora and Blanchard
Streets, will be the first apartments the company has built in
the city in 10 years, said John M. Parker, president of the U.S.
arm of Toronto-based Bentall Kennedy. The firm oversees $23
billion of real estate.  “There will be a spike in rents over the next one to three
years,” Parker said in an interview at the company’s U.S.
headquarters in Seattle. “It’s in anticipation of the spike in
rents that we can be comfortable on our return on costs. A few
years ago, we couldn’t do that.”  Companies like Parker’s and  AvalonBay Communities Inc ., the
second-biggest publicly traded U.S. apartment owner, are
stepping up new rental construction as vacancy rates fall and
building costs hold steady. Starts on multifamily homes,
including townhouses and apartments, jumped 78 percent in
January from the previous month to an annual pace of 183,000,
the highest since February 2009, the Commerce Department said
Feb. 16. Work on single-family houses decreased 1 percent.  The  producer price index  for construction materials rose
4.9 percent in January from a year earlier, while the PPI for
new office buildings -- the best proxy for luxury apartments --
gained 0.4 percent, according to  Associated General Contractors
of America , a trade group based in Arlington, Virginia. The PPI
for office buildings reflects finished projects and includes
contractors’ bids.  Pressure on Contractors  “Materials costs are rising, but contractors aren’t
pushing them through because they’re bidding so fiercely to get
work that they’re offering to deliver the building at the same
price as a year ago,” said Ken Simonson, chief economist of the
contractors’ trade group. “The trend throughout 2010 was for
these bid prices to stay pretty flat or even drop.”  Many would-be buyers have turned to renting after the
median price of existing homes tumbled 27 percent in 4 1/2 half
years.  “Most people feel that home-price appreciation is a thing
of the past,” said Tom Craig, a commercial and multifamily real
estate broker in Seattle. “Capital markets are bullish on
multifamily and that’s where people are looking to do deals.”  With the foreclosure rate at a record 4.63 percent in the
fourth quarter, thousands of homeowners have been forced to
rent. Home ownership in the U.S. dropped from a peak of 69.2
percent in 2004 to 66.5 percent at the end of 2010, with each
percentage point representing about 1.1 million households,
according to the Census Bureau.  Playing Catch-up  “There’s going to be something like 1 to 1.5 million
additional renters per year over the next few years in the U.S.,
and that’s going to be concentrated in places like Seattle,  San
Francisco , Washington and  New York ,” Doug Poutasse, head of
research for Bentall Kennedy, said in a telephone interview.  Developers are scrambling to catch up, Poutasse said.  New apartment construction fell to a 50-year low in 2009,
according to the Census Bureau. Two years ago, builders started
97,300 apartment units in multifamily buildings of five units or
more, the lowest since the Census Bureau began tracking the data
in 1959. The record high was 906,200 units in 1972.  “Nationwide, supply is needed right now and it’s going to
increase,” said Dean Frankel, who oversees about $1.7 billion
of real estate securities as senior portfolio manager for Urdang
Securities in Plymouth Meeting,  Pennsylvania . “In the next 24
months, I expect a meaningful pipeline of new apartments.”  Higher Yields  Bentall Kennedy’s Parker said Class A apartments, or the
highest-quality buildings, are yielding between 4 percent and 5
percent. The yield is based on the capitalization rate, or a
property’s net operating income divided by purchase price. The
company estimates it can build at Sixth and Lenora for a return
of between 6.5 percent and 7 percent.  “It’s not exactly apples to apples, but it’s still
indicative of a premium you get for building versus buying,”
Parker said. “You take the construction risk and to some degree
the lease-up risk, but in multifamily that’s quite a bit less
than an office building or a retail complex.”  AvalonBay has said an estimated 700,000 new renter
households were created in the U.S. during the past year, about
half of which were in multifamily buildings. That helped push
its rental revenue from apartments leased at least one year up
2.5 percent in the fourth quarter compared with a decline in the
first quarter.  Expanding the Pipeline  The Arlington, Virginia-based real estate investment trust
started 11 developments in 2010 with a combined 2,446 apartment
units for a cost of about $643.4 million, 70 percent more than
it had forecast at the beginning of the year. It also added more
than $600 million of deals to its development pipeline and
expects to add more than $300 million more this quarter,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bryce Blair said on a Feb.
3 conference call.  “The outlook for multifamily is dramatically better than
for other sectors in the near term,” said Richard Parkus, head
of commercial real estate debt research at Morgan Stanley, in an
appearance before a congressional panel in  Washington  on Feb. 4.  Apartment landlords began to raise rents last year as
vacancies fell to a national rate of 6.6 percent in the fourth
quarter, the lowest since 2008, from 8 percent a year earlier,
according to  Reis Inc. , a New York-based property-research firm.  Outpacing  S&P 500   There are risks to the outlook for apartments. As  home
prices  come down and  interest rates  stay low, it becomes more
attractive to buy. Also, a large part of the anticipated market
recovery may already be priced into apartment-property stocks.  The Bloomberg REIT Apartment Index rose 45 percent in the
past year, outpacing the 28 percent gain by the office REIT
index and the 36 percent rise by the retail REIT Index. The
broader Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 21 percent. The
numbers exclude dividends.  “Everybody’s piling into multifamily,” said Morgan
Stanley’s Parkus in a telephone interview. “That means a lot of
the improvement is probably priced in.”  In  Seattle , a city of about 602,000 residents, Bentall
Kennedy will be competing with other apartment complexes going
up near downtown in the next two years, said Craig, who heads
the commercial broker TSC Realty Partners LLC. The Sixth and
Lenora apartments are due to be finished in the first half of
2013.  Risk of Overbuilding  “A major risk for that project is they’re going to
overbuild the higher end of the apartment market and it’s going
to be a very long lease-up,” Craig said. “High-rise apartment
construction is very expensive and requires market rents that
don’t exist today.”  The median rent in Seattle is $721, according to the city’s
website.  The supply of U.S.  apartments  could surpass demand by 2013
or 2014 as developers complete buildings being started this year
and next, said Andy McCulloch, senior analyst at  Green Street
Advisors Inc. , a  Newport Beach , California-based firm that
researches REITs.  “Usually when big development cycles start, developers
over-deliver,” McCulloch said. “I see that as being a
potential issue, but I think it’s concentrated in a lot of low-
barrier markets. We consider Seattle high-barrier, but there are
low-barrier parts. Seattle is a market that overbuilt during the
last cycle, especially Bellevue” on the east side of Lake
Washington. Seattle is located on the west side of the lake.  Bellevue Building  From 2005 to 2010, 12 apartment complexes with a total of
2,825 units were built within Bellevue’s downtown. The number of
units went up almost fourfold from the previous five years, when
eight complexes were built with a combined 1,087 units,
according to the city of Bellevue.  Several condominium developments also were built during
this same time period. A total of 1,127 condo units came online
in downtown Bellevue, compared with 373 units from 2000 to 2004,
a fourfold increase. This would have been even higher had the
455 units in the Bravern, an office, residential and luxury
retail development, not switched from condos to apartments in
2010, according to the city of Bellevue.  Air-conditioning  Bentall Kennedy aims to capitalize on the growing pool of
workers near the project, located between the city’s business
and retail core and the new head office of Internet retailer  Amazon.com Inc ., as well as the new headquarters of the  Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation  to the north. The design calls for two
24-story buildings with mainly one-bedroom and studio apartments
that will rent for an average $2,000 a month.  The units will have amenities designed to let the firm
convert them to condominiums for sale in the future if the
market shifts, Parker said. The features include a car-sharing
service and a bike-storage facility along with a washer/dryer in
each unit. The apartments will have stainless-steel appliances
and wood floors as well as a rarity in Seattle: air-
conditioning.  Many younger workers no longer equate home ownership with
financial security and increasingly favor renting for lifestyle
reasons, said Poutasse, Bentall Kennedy’s research director.  “The psychology has changed and that’s why I think this
will go on for several years,” he said.  Besides Amazon and the Gates Foundation, which oversees the
philanthropy work of Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates  and
his wife, other big employers nearby include Russell
Investments. The  investment adviser  last year moved its
headquarters to the former Washington Mutual Inc. main office
from Tacoma, Washington, bringing about 900 employees.  Vacancies Fall  “If you look at what is in the pipeline for delivery over
the next two years, it’s a really small number of units,”
Parker said. He cited three projects with a combined 518 units
in the downtown market that Bentall Kennedy aims to compete
with. “By historical standards, that’s not very much. We have
absolutely no qualms about our ability to lease product.”  Seattle apartment vacancies dropped to 5.8 percent in the
fourth quarter from 7.3 percent a year earlier, and are
approaching their average since 1990 of 5.4 percent, data from
Reis show. The rate probably will decline over the next two
years to the 2 percent to 3 percent range, Parker estimated.  The area, which held up relatively well during the housing
crisis, has weakened in the past year. Foreclosure notices in
Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue rose 23 percent to 27,926 properties in
2010, the second-highest rate among the 20 largest metropolitan
areas behind Houston, according to  RealtyTrac Inc.  Foreclosures
nationally rose 2 percent last year, the  Irvine , California-
based real estate data firm said.  Rent Outlook  “That’s going to generate a lot of pressure on rents and
that’s part of what we’re underwriting,” Parker said.  Bentall Kennedy has acquired four existing apartment
properties during the past year, in Houston, Washington and  Florida . The company also is looking at building apartments in
the Los Angeles area and in  Manhattan , Parker said.  “It’s our intention to increase multifamily as a
percentage of our portfolio,” Parker said. “We think it’s
going to be an attractive performing sector over the next 10
years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  