-- 
Uganda Closes Voting as Museveni Seeks to Extend Rule

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-02-18T14:56:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/uganda-starts-voting-in-elections-expected-to-extend-yoweri-museveni-rule.html
Ugandans voted in an election
expected to extend the rule of President Yoweri Museveni to 30
years, leaving him in charge of an economy on the verge of an
oil boom.  Voting in parliamentary and presidential elections ended at
about 5 p.m. at the East African nation’s 23,968 polling
stations. In the presidential race, about 14 million  registered 
voters chose between Museveni, the leader of the  National
Resistance Movement  party who has been in power since 1986, and
seven other candidates seeking to end his reign.  Security forces were deployed across the country and at
every voting station, Inspector General of Police Major General
Kale Kayihura said yesterday. A “terror alert” remains active
because of reports that al-Shabaab, the Somali militia with
links to al-Qaeda, is preparing attacks during the vote, he
said.  “Security is very heavy” to ensure election day passes by
peacefully, Maria Burnett, a researcher with  Human Rights Watch ,
said by phone yesterday from the capital, Kampala. “My sense is
there is more likely to be a chance of a problem and protests
once the counting starts.”  Museveni, 66, has the support of 67 percent of voters,
which is more than triple that of his closest challenger  Kizza Besigye , 54, of the  Forum for Democratic Change , according to a
survey by the Ugandan unit of market research company  Synovate 
conducted between Dec. 3 and Dec. 14. The winner has to capture
more than half of the votes to avoid a second round.  Opposition Complaint  The final results will be announced by the  Electoral
Commission  of Uganda by Feb. 20 at 5 p.m. local time.  Missing names on the voter registry and the late arrival of
election materials at many polling stations discouraged some
people from voting, Margaret Wokuri, a spokeswoman for the
Inter-Party Cooperation, a group of four opposition parties led
by Besigye, said today by phone from Kampala.  Two vehicles were fired upon in the  Sironko district  of
eastern  Uganda , Silvester Arinaitwe, chairman of Democracy
Monitoring Group, which receives funding from U.S.-based
 National Democratic Institute , said in an interview in Kampala.
One carried  Nandala Mafabi , an opposition lawmaker seeking re-
election, and the other was parked while its owner had left to
vote, he said. No one was reported killed or injured, Arinaitwe
said.  Uganda’s economy grew more than 8 percent for the seven
fiscal years through June 30, 2008, the fastest in East  Africa ,
according to World Bank statistics.  Oil Production  London-based  Tullow Oil Plc  will start pumping oil and gas
next year from the Lake Albert Basin, with volumes expected to
reach 200,000 barrels a day by 2015. Uganda has an estimated 2.5
billion barrels of oil, with about 1 billion barrels already
discovered, according to the company’s data.  Museveni expects crude output to boost economic growth in
Uganda, elevating the country to middle-income status by 2016
and improving  living standards  for the one in three who live on
$1.25 or less a day. The  International Monetary Fund   forecasts 
the economy of Africa’s largest producer of robusta coffee will
expand by 6.1 percent this year, up from 5.8 percent in 2010.  “The oil won’t help people like me because it will be
stolen,” Mathias Mbaba, a 35-year-old mechanic waiting to vote
at a Kampala polling station, said in an interview today. “The
benefit will go to a small number of people within government.”  Corruption Concerns  Graft is the top issue for voters, the Synovate survey
showed. Uganda ranks 127th out of 178 nations on the Berlin-
based  Transparency International’s  corruption perceptions index.
The government has kept the details of oil contracts
confidential.  Corruption “is a concern for every new oil-exporting
country and it is particularly a concern in Uganda, which has a
track record of corruption and public misuse of funds,” Joseph
Lake, an analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit, said by e-
mail on Feb. 9.  Security has been stepped up since twin explosions in
Kampala on July 11 killed 76 people watching the soccer  World
Cup  on television at two venues, Kayihura said.  Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the attacks and
warned further retaliation is possible against Uganda and
Burundi because they have contributed troops to  the African
Union peacekeeping mission in Somalia  that is helping the
government fight Islamic militants.  Museveni won elections in 1996, 2001 and 2006. The  Supreme
Court  found irregularities in the last two votes, in which
Besigye, Museveni’s former ally, challenged the president.  Opposition Tally  The opposition Inter-Party Cooperation will tally results
collected directly from polling stations, Sam Njuba, chairman of
the group’s electoral committee, said on Feb. 15.  Police will arrest anyone who declares independent results,
Electoral Commission Chairman Badru Kiggundu said yesterday.  The absence of any unrest during campaigning boded well for
the election, Edward Scicluna, head of the European Union’s
Electoral Observation Mission, said in an interview in Kampala
today. “There has not been pattern of violence ahead of the
vote, unlike previous elections in this country, and we are
pleased about that,” said Scicluna, a member of the European
Parliament from Malta. “The citizens must not be intimidated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Kampala at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 