-- 
Tully Sugar Shareholder Vote Derails Bunge Bid Plan

-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 
2011-02-18T08:29:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/tully-sugar-shareholder-vote-derails-bunge-bid-plan-update1-.html
Tully Sugar Ltd.  will seek talks
with  Bunge Ltd ., which has bid A$126.7 million ($128 million)
the Australian mill, after a shareholder vote blocked changes
needed for the offer to proceed.  A plan to remove a 20 percent shareholding cap received 72
percent support, falling short of the 75 percent required, Tully
Chief Executive Officer John King said by phone. Queensland
Sugar Ltd., which owns about 13 percent of the company and
markets all Tully’s output, said it had opposed removal and may
favor a rival plan being developed by Mackay Sugar Ltd.  Bunge, the world’s second-largest sugar trader, is seeking
to purchase the Tully sugar mill in Queensland to gain supply
from Australia, the third-biggest exporter. The offer follows  Wilmar International Ltd .’s purchase of CSR Ltd.’s sugar unit,
Australia’s No. 1 producer, as demand in  Asia  rises for
agricultural commodities.  “We clearly have a bid-implementation agreement in place
with Bunge and we will need to sit down with them and decide how
we go forward,” King said. The board has recommended that
shareholders accept the Bunge offer.  Raw sugar for May delivery fell 1.2 percent to close at
28.86 cents a pound on ICE Future U.S. yesterday. The price
reached 36.08 cents on Feb. 2, the highest level for a most-
active contract since November 1980.  Shipments Plan  Queensland Sugar said it was concerned that Bunge had
indicated it wanted to become actively involved in the sugar
marketing and direct where product should be shipped.  The Brisbane-based company, which handles more than 90
percent of  Australia ’s raw-sugar exports through agreements with
mills, had in recent weeks been approached by closely-held
Mackay about the purchase of its Tully shares and creation of a
grower-controlled company, Queensland Sugar Chairman Alan Winney
said in a statement.  “If successful, Mackay and its affiliated companies would
better serve the long-term interests of grower shareholders in a
number of milling companies, and offer a potentially more
sustainable business model,” he said.  A spokesman for Bunge Australia Holdings Pty was not
immediately available for comment.  Mitr Phol Sugar Corp., based in Bangkok, is also expanding
in Australia, agreeing to buy a stake in  Maryborough Sugar
Factory  Ltd., based in Queensland, this year.  Tully may crush 1.5 million metric tons of cane in 2011,
with sugar output of 175,000 tons, the company forecast this
week, cutting its forecast by about 30 percent because of crop
damage from Tropical Cyclone Yasi. Total Australian raw-sugar
production last year was 3.6 million tons, according to
producers group  Canegrowers .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Poole  at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 