-- 
Turkish Default Risk Climbs to 5-Month High on Mideast Unrest

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-02-18T16:39:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/turkey-s-lira-shares-decline-as-unrest-spreads-in-middle-east.html
The cost of insuring Turkish debt
against default increased to the highest level in more than five
months, while bonds and lira weakened as unrest in the Middle
East spread.  Credit-default swaps on Turkey climbed 2.3 basis points to
173.7, the highest since Aug. 31, according to CMA. Bonds fell
for a third day, sending the yield on two-year lira-denominated
debt 5 basis points higher to 8.33 percent, according to the RBS
Istanbul Benchmark Bond Index.  Turkey ’s currency weakened 0.2
percent to 1.5775 per dollar at 6:25 p.m. in Istanbul.  Thousands of protesters in Bahrain gathered for the funeral
of two men killed by security forces, calling for democracy and
the fall of the government as unrest in the Middle East spread
to  Libya .  Egypt ’s Foreign Ministry is studying a request from  Iran  for two military ships to pass through the Suez Canal, said
Hossam Zaki, a ministry spokesman.  “The escalating tensions in Libya, Bahrain and the Middle
East may be playing a role,” Bali Ekin, head of equity trading
at Credit Europe Bank NV in Amsterdam, said in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg News. “I would not
personally like to build new positions in this current
geopolitical environment.”  The cost of default protection has jumped 30 basis points
since Jan. 25, following the outbreak of protests in Egypt that
led to the ouster of Hosni Mubarak.  In Libya,  Africa ’s biggest holder of crude oil reserves,
activists called for more rallies to remove  Muammar Qaddafi , in
power for more than 40 years. In Yemen, the biggest crowd since
protests began more than a week ago gathered to demand the
ouster of Ali Abdullah Saleh, president for three decades.  The  ISE National 100 Index  of stocks was little changed, up
less than 0.1 percent at 65,985.75. The gauge climbed as much as
0.6 percent earlier after Morgan Stanley raised its
recommendation on the country’s equities to “neutral” from
“underweight,” citing the outlook for economic growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 