-- 
Wisconsin, Ohio Target Government Union Contracts

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-02-18T15:25:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/wisconsin-ohio-target-government-union-contracts-correct-.html
The Wisconsin Legislature may pass a
bill as early as tomorrow restricting collective bargaining for
public employees and requiring them to pay more health-care and
pension costs. The plan prompted protests and even a sleep-in
under the Capitol rotunda.  Similar efforts are under way by Republican governors
including  Chris Christie  in New Jersey and John Kasich in Ohio
as part of efforts to deal with deficits. States face gaps that
may reach  $125 billion  next year, according to the Center on
Budget & Policy Priorities.  “Wisconsin is broke, just like about every state is
broke,” Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  said today in a
telephone interview. “It’s about time people have the courage
to stand up, point that out, and do something about it.”  Walker said he has the legislative support to enact the
bill and that “it passes, no doubt about it.”  Unions staged demonstrations at the Wisconsin and Ohio
statehouses this week. Schools in the Wisconsin capital of
Madison canceled classes today because 40 percent of the 2,600
union members called in sick, according to the  Associated Press .  University of Wisconsin-Madison students and teaching
assistants lay down in sleeping bags in the Capitol during a
hearing that lasted until 3 a.m. today, and there was a second
straight day of demonstrations -- including chants of “Recall
Walker now” outside the governor’s office, the news service
reported.  ‘Fundamental Underpinning’  The right to negotiate through a union is “a fundamental
underpinning of our middle class,” Phil Neuenfeldt, Wisconsin
State AFL-CIO president, said in a statement. “Instead of
balancing the budget on the backs of hard-working Wisconsinites,
we need to come up with a balanced approach that looks at shared
sacrifice from everyone.”  The bill would allow public workers except police and
firefighters to bargain only for wages. It would require them to
pay 5.8 percent of their pension costs -- they pay nothing now -
- and 12 percent of health-care premiums, up from 6 percent,
Assembly Speaker Jeff Fitzgerald said in a telephone interview.  Walker, a Republican elected last year, proposed the
measure in response to a projected deficit of $137 million in
the current fiscal year and $3.6 billion in the next biennium.
The bill would allow the state to save $30 million in the
current fiscal year and $300 million in the next biennium.  The alternative is firing up to 6,000 state employees, the
governor said.  Fateful Weekend  Fitzgerald said he expects the bill to reach Walker’s desk
by the weekend. Republicans control the Assembly by a margin of
60 to 38 with one independent, and Republicans have a five-seat
advantage in the Senate.  The bill wouldn’t affect employees until their contracts
expire, said Peter G. Davis, general counsel of the Wisconsin
Employment Relations Commission.  Public workers in Wisconsin and Ohio are not required to
join unions though they may be required to pay “fair share”
dues if that provision is part of the contract where they work,
said Davis and Sally Meckling, spokeswoman for the  Ohio  Civil
Service Employees Association, the largest state union.  Meanwhile, in Columbus  In Ohio, lawmakers are holding hearings on a bill to
prohibit collective bargaining for all state workers and
restrict it for other public employees, while abolishing salary
schedules in favor of merit pay, according to an  analysis  by the
Ohio Legislative Services Commission.  The state’s collective-bargaining law was passed in 1983
under Democratic leadership and the goal of the current effort
is to “restore some balance between management and labor,”
Kasich told reporters yesterday.  Firefighters, police officers, teachers and other public
employees crowded into the Ohio Statehouse yesterday to oppose
the bill as a Senate committee heard testimony from proponents.  Witnesses with opposing views are scheduled tomorrow. The
 Ohio Liberty Council , a coalition of about 60 Tea Party groups,
said in a statement that it plans to rally at the statehouse
against what it called “one of Ohio’s most important threats --
the prosperity-killing public-employee unions and collective
bargaining.”  In  New Jersey , Christie has targeted the teachers’ union
with proposals including ending tenure, linking pay to
performance and making it easier to fire the worst educators. He
also wants no pay raises for state workers this year while
requiring them to pay more for health-care and pension benefits.  Editors: Stephen Merelman, Ted Bunker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in New York at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  