-- 
Your $5,555 Defense Bill Chokes on Waste: Veronique de Rugy

-- B y   V e r o n i q u e   d e   R u g y
-- 
2011-02-18T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-18/your-5-555-defense-bill-chokes-on-waste-commentary-by-veronique-de-rugy.html
Republicans have promised to cut
spending and restore fiscal discipline in  Washington . Yet they
shy away from one of the biggest pieces of our federal budget:
defense spending.  Republican Congressman Buck McKeon, chairman of the House
Armed Services Committee, reacted to Defense Secretary  Robert Gates ’s recent and ever-so-modest effort to reduce the growth in
the Pentagon’s budget by saying, “We are fighting two wars; you
have China, you have Iran: Is this the time to be making these
types of cuts?”  Well, yes. With fiscal pressures rising, the U.S. doesn’t
have the luxury to pretend that every defense dollar increases
security. Nor can we shelter defense from fiscal imperatives.  First, America’s military budget is massive. Even setting
aside expenditures related to the country’s current wars, the
amount requested by President  Barack Obama  for 2012 is $553
billion. The wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan  are expected to cost
$117.8 billion more. On top of mandatory spending and other
defense related programs, that comes to roughly $702 billion, or
some $5,555 per American household.  Adjusted for inflation, the U.S.’s annual spending is 13
percent higher than the Korean War peak ($624 billion), 33
percent higher than the Vietnam War peak ($534 billion), and 23
percent higher than the Reagan-era military buildup ($574
billion).  Perceived Threat  Second, the important question isn’t how much money is
spent but whether it is spent effectively. Unfortunately, the
current levels of expenditure and the threat to national
interests don’t have much to do with each other. After all, the
U.S. military budget was already immense and growing ($364
billion adjusted for inflation and 40 percent of world spending)
before we were attacked on Sept. 11, 2001.  In 2009, the U.S. defense budget represented 43 percent of
the  $1.5 trillion  worldwide military spending, according to the
Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. That’s more
than six times greater than the runner-up, China, and more than
70 times that of  Iran . Even under the assumption that the U.S.
faces a threat from these nations, the disparity remains vast.  To be sure, the U.S.’s self-appointment as world policeman
explains why America’s arsenal is larger than the potential
threats would dictate. But the disparity can also be explained
by budgetary and bureaucratic inertia. Looking at defense-
spending data from 1886 to 1989,  Benjamin E. Goldsmith  at the  University of Sydney  found that bureaucrats tend to perpetuate
existing funding levels and discourage big reductions in
spending even if threats diminish. They will, however, boost
expenditure as perceived threats increase. So, not every dollar
spent increases security.  Buy Votes  While some funds are used to support defense interests,
others are directed to buy votes. This accounts for the Cold War
weapons and submarines included in the Obama budget.  “Reports from across the political spectrum, including
from watchdog groups and defense contractors, have estimated
that over $50 billion per year could be saved by eliminating a
few controversial weapons systems,” says  Travis Sharp , a
research associate at the Center for a New American Security.
The U.S. could save more money by reforming the Pentagon’s
supply chain,  information technology , and personnel-management
practice. We could also save by ending the wars.  Excessive defense spending may ultimately make the country
less safe. Today, the U.S. military’s missions include
containing  China ; turning failed states into democracies;
capturing terrorists; protecting  Europe ,  Asia  and Middle Eastern
states from aggression; keeping oil cheap and cyberspace secure;
delivering humanitarian relief; responding to natural disasters
and more.  Stretched Thin  There will never be enough money for the military to do it
all. Yet, a military that is stretched so thin leaves the nation
less safe from true threats.  In addition, the degree of poorly allocated spending and
outright fraud that historically attends to Pentagon contracting
and spending is well-known. A March 2010 Government
Accountability Office report compiled an impressive list of
serious financial-management problems at the Defense Department,
including misreporting of contracts, assets and properties.  Finally, while the threats that America’s enemies pose are
important in shaping the size of our  defense budget , so do
competing government priorities in the face of limited
resources. After years of across-the-board overspending, the
country is crushed with  debt . If we don’t reverse course,
economic disruptions may overwhelm our security.  Fire Sale  Entitlement and defense are the two biggest items in the
federal budget, and they should be overhauled today. If not, the
U.S. might be forced into a fire sale when the crisis hits and
there will be no time for consideration about security.  The good news is that defense spending can be cut. Over the
last 70 years, the defense budget was trimmed 26 times at an
average rate of 10 percent. The biggest decreases followed World
War II, with a 72 percent cut in 1947. But these don’t just come
immediately after wars. The last budget cut took place in 1998.  Obviously, the political environment at the time of these
reductions is important. Most have taken place after a war. But
some were also achieved in the late 1960s and early 1970s, while
hostilities continued in  Vietnam .  The bottom line is that it isn’t only fiscally responsible
to cut military spending. It is also the safe thing to do.  (Veronique de Rugy is a senior research fellow at the  Mercatus Center  at  George Mason University . The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Veronique de Rugy at  vderugy@gmu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  