-- ‘Avengers’ Proves Marvel Exceeds Iger’s $4.2 Billion Cost
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-05-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/-avengers-proves-marvel-far-exceeds-iger-s-4-2-billion-cost.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  Chairman and Chief
Executive  Robert Iger  said Marvel Entertainment’s value “far
exceeds” the $4.2 billion paid for the business after its
latest film set a box-office record.  “‘Avengers’ I think speaks volumes in terms of, not only
the value of Marvel, but the value that Marvel can create long-
term,” Iger said in an interview yesterday with Bloomberg 
Television’s  Carol Massar . “We sit here today with a very clear
blueprint about how to create more value from Marvel over the 
years. Value that I believe will far exceed what we paid for 
Marvel a few years ago.”  “Marvel’s The Avengers” generated a best-ever $207
million in ticket sales in its domestic debut last weekend, and
its worldwide total now exceeds $775 million, according to  Box
Office Mojo , a film research website. It is the first Marvel
film Disney distributed since purchasing the comic  book
publisher  in 2009.  Iger, 61, Chief Financial Officer Jay Rasulo and television
group co-Chairman  Anne Sweeney  appear today on Bloomberg
Television’s “Inside Disney,” broadcast live from the
company’s Burbank, California, headquarters.  Disney’s CEO, once a TV weatherman, said every project in
the hit-or-miss film business is a nail-bitter.  “People would be surprised how late in the life of some of
these projects, there’s still so much work to be done,” Iger
said. “The uncertainty about whether it will be great or not
lasts, exists I guess, pretty late in the process.”  ‘Give it a Shot’  Disney’s March science-fiction release “ John Carter ” led
to an $84 million operating loss at the film studio for the
second quarter ended March 31. Studio chairman  Rich Ross 
resigned in April.  Iger said he felt the $250 million movie was “very
challenged” after viewing it prior to release. The company
continued to promote it.  “I felt that given the size of the investment that we owed
it to ourselves to at least give it the shot it deserved,” he
said.  Screening an early cut of the “The Avengers,” Iger said
“we had a pretty good sense that we had a very strong movie on
our hands. We didn’t know it was going to break all the records
that it’s broken.”  Disney is working on a sequel to “The Avengers,” racing
to get more movie-related merchandise in stores and planning to
get the characters into its theme parks, Iger said May 8 when
the company announced a 21 percent increase in quarterly profit.  Merchandise Potential  Iger, who also engineered the $7 billion purchase of the
Pixar animation studio in 2006, said yesterday he doesn’t expect
every film to have the sequel and merchandising potential of
“The Avengers.”  “The creative process is best served by having a goal to
just making something great, and if it happens to be something
that works worldwide or something that spans multiple businesses
here, or something that will live forever in multiple ways,
fantastic,” he said. “Making a great movie is a difficult
thing. I believe that we would only make it more difficult if we
told all the movie makers that you have to check every box
before we do this.”  Disney rose 0.6 percent yesterday to an all-time closing
high of $45.28. The stock has gained 21 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  