-- ‘Godfather’ Sequel Published Amid Paramount, Puzo Suits
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-05-11T18:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/-godfather-sequel-published-amid-paramount-puzo-suits.html
Proceeds from the sequel to Mario Puzo’s novel “The Godfather” published this week will be put
in escrow while  Paramount Pictures  and the late novelist’s
estate pursue litigation over the publishing rights.  “An interim agreement allows publication of the novel to
go forward, pending resolution of this matter,” Richard
Kendall, a lawyer for Los Angeles-based Paramount, said at a
hearing today in  Manhattan  federal court.  Paramount, a unit of New York-based  Viacom Inc., (VIAB)  sued
 Anthony Puzo , Mario’s son and the executor of his estate, in
February to prevent the publication of a third sequel to “The
Godfather,” claiming that it wasn’t authorized.  Puzo countersued in March, saying that Paramount
disregarded contractual promises to his father and breached a
1969 agreement. Puzo said the contract between the late author
and the studio excluded book publishing rights.  “It’s a question of fact, of how much importance it was to
Puzo to reserve publishing rights,” Bertram Fields, a lawyer
for the writer’s son, told U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan
today. “We’re seeking cancellation of the contract.”  The parties will attempt to resolve the dispute in
mediation, the lawyers said.  ‘Godfather’s Revenge’  Paramount said in its complaint that after  Mario Puzo  died
in 1999, the company agreed to allow Bertelsmann AG’s Random
House to publish a single Godfather sequel, “The Godfather
Returns” in 2004. The estate published another novel, “The
Godfather’s Revenge,” in 2006 without Paramount’s approval, the
studio said. Paramount said the estate informed it last year of
plans to publish a third sequel.  That volume, “The Family Corleone” by Ed Falco, was
published on May 8, according to the  website  of Grand Central
Publishing.  The first “Godfather” film came out in 1972 and won
Academy Awards for best picture and for best adapted screenplay,
for which Puzo shared credit.  Francis Ford Coppola  directed all
three Godfather movies.  Nathan said she may hear oral arguments on Paramount’s
motion to dismiss the Puzo counterclaims this summer.  The case is Paramount Pictures v. Puzo, 12-01268, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  