-- ADRs Slump Most in 2012 on Earnings Woes: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-05-13T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/51job-down-most-in-2012-as-growth-sours-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  in New York posted the
biggest weekly drop this year after industrial output and retail
sales missed economists’ estimates, raising concerns slower
growth will cut earnings.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. tumbled 4.1 percent last week to
97.76, the biggest retreat since December. 51job Inc., a
recruiting service provider, sank 15 percent last week, while
 SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , which owns a real estate website, lost the
most since November.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (HNP)  traded at
a discount to its  Hong Kong  shares for the first time in a week.  China’s  industrial production  increased 9.3 percent in
April from a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2009, while
retail sales rose the least since February 2011. Of the 24
companies in the China-US index that have reported earnings
since April 1, 10  have fallen short  of analysts’ forecasts,
including  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  and  China Telecom Corp. (CHA) , data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s time to be cautious,”  Michael Shaoul , who oversees
more than $1.9 billion as chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management in New York, said by phone from New York. “The down
cycle doesn’t stop here. Earnings will shrink.”  The IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., fell 5.5 percent last week to
$35.33, the lowest level since January.
The  Shanghai Composite Index of mainland stocks  slid 2.3
percent, the biggest five-day drop since the end of March. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. shares declined 1.2 percent.  ‘Casting a Shadow’  SouFun, owner of China’s largest housing website, fell 8.4
percent last week to $16.25. The value of homes sold in China
declined 16 percent in April from a year earlier to 315 billion
 yuan  ($50 billion), according to the statistics agency.  A government report last week also showed export and
imports grew at a slower-than-expected pace in April as the
European debt crisis curbed overseas demand and a cooling
housing market curbs consumer spending. The central bank said on
May 11 that lenders handed out  loans  of 681.8 billion yuan last
month, the smallest this year.  51job Inc. (JOBS) , a recruiting service provider, sank to $49.40
from $57.86 a week earlier. The company forecast on May 9 that
revenue will grow as much as $59.5 million in the second
quarter, compared with $60.5 million in the first three months
of this year.  Concern over China’s slowing economy is “clearly casting a
shadow” over companies’ hiring, Chief Executive Officer Rick Yan said on a conference call with analysts on May 9.  ‘Responding Badly’  7 Day Group Holdings Ltd. (SVN) , a hotel operator, declined 11
percent last week to $10.77 as earnings estimates trailed
analyst expectations.  Baidu Inc., (BIDU)  owner of China’s largest
Internet search engine, retreated 6 percent to $122.23. It has
lost 12 percent since April 24 as the company’s sales forecast
fell short of analysts’ estimate.  “China’s growth is slowing perhaps more than markets were
believing,” said Daniel Arbess, a partner at Weinberg Partners
LP who manages the Xerion hedge fund, in an e-mailed reply.
“Markets are responding badly.”  Arbess said he sold his holdings of Chinese equities at the
beginning of the year.  Consumer prices  rose 3.4 percent last month from a year
earlier, the statistics agency said on May 11. It was the third
month that inflation stayed below the government’s annual target
of 4 percent, fueling speculation policy makers may cut banks’
reserve requirements to spur growth.  ‘Difficult Decision’  “For investors, China is a difficult decision: do you play
the slowdown, sell or go short, or do you wait for the policy
reaction to kick,”  John Lomax , an emerging-markets strategist
at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a phone interview from London.
“Policy makers have little appetite for sustained weak growth,
so it can be dangerous to play the slowdown too aggressively
here.”  American depositary receipts of Huaneng, a unit of China’s
largest electricity producer, rose 3.2 percent last week to
$23.93 in New York, leaving it 0.9 percent lower than its shares
in Hong Kong.  WuXi PharmaTech (Cayman) Inc., (WX)  a biotechnology research
firm, jumped 9.5 percent on May 11 to $14.68, after the
company’s second-quarter revenue estimate beat  analysts’
forecasts.  The Shanghai-based firm posted adjusted earnings of
33 cents per share after the market close on May 10, compared
with the average forecast of 29 cents in a Bloomberg survey of
seven analysts.  Home Inns & Hotels Management Inc. (HMIN)  rose 5.2 percent on May
11 to $24.03, extending its weekly gain to 8 percent. The
Shanghai-based budget hotel operator posted an adjusted loss of
9 cents per share for the first quarter, compared with the
median forecast for a 33-cent loss in a Bloomberg survey of six
analysts.  Confidence  Sixteen companies in the China-US index are scheduled to
release first-quarter results this week, including  Sina Corp. (SINA) 
and  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A 51 percent majority are confident in the policies of
President  Hu Jintao , according to the quarterly Bloomberg Global
Poll of investors, analysts and traders who are subscribers. The
figure was the same as in January, unaffected by the aftermath
of former Chongqing Communist Party boss Bo Xilai’s March
ouster, which clouded the outlook for this year’s once-in-a-
decade leadership change.  China’s economy  will either improve or remain stable this
year, according to 68 percent of respondents, with the share
anticipating a deterioration falling to 30 percent, the lowest
level since the question was first included in the poll in
September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  