-- Africa Must Cut Product Subsidies to Push Growth, AfDB Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-05-11T16:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/africa-must-cut-product-subsidies-to-push-growth-afdb-says-1-.html
African nations should reduce
subsidies on products including fuel to increase their scope for
stimulus spending as Europe sinks into recession, said African
Development Bank President  Donald Kaberuka .  “In countries where the subsidies are not targeted, we are
encouraging governments to reduce product subsidies,” he said
in an interview in  Addis Ababa , Ethiopia, at the  World Economic
Forum  on Africa. Europe is Africa’s top trading partner.  In  Egypt , energy subsidies account for 8 percent of gross
domestic product, Kaberuka said. “If you reduce, even by half,
the energy subsidies, that is about 4 percent of GDP. That is
money you can use for stimulus spending,” he said. “For me,
that is the first place to begin.”  Nigeria fixes gasoline prices by subsidizing oil importers
such as state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. and Total
Nigeria Plc because Africa’s largest oil-producing nation
doesn’t have the refining capacity to meet domestic needs.  President  Goodluck Jonathan  faced protests after he
scrapped subsidies worth 1.2 trillion naira ($7.6 billion)
earlier this year, leading to a rise in gasoline prices. The
caps were partly reinstated.  Other measures African governments should take to bolster
stability include increasing economic buffers, improving natural
resource management and continuing investments in expanding
infrastructure such as power-generation and roads, Kaberuka
said.  “In terms of reserves, debt levels, deficit, it was
possible in 2008 for African nations to expand the economy with
monetary and fiscal instruments,” he said. “So now countries
need to reinforce the shock absorbers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  