-- Johnson, Na, Kuchar Lead Players Golf as Tiger Woods Makes Cut
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-05-12T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/laird-has-one-stroke-lead-at-players-golf-as-woods-trails-by-11.html
Americans  Zach Johnson ,  Matt Kuchar 
and Kevin Na share a one-shot lead at 8 under par entering the
third round of the  U.S. PGA Tour ’s Players championship, where
 Tiger Woods  made four straight birdies to avoid missing the cut
for the second straight week.  Johnson, Kuchar and Na are one shot ahead of another
American, Harris English. Five players are tied for fifth at 6
under at the TPC Sawgrass course in Ponte Vedra Beach,  Florida .  Woods is at 2 under for the tournament after shooting a 4-
under 68 yesterday. After following a birdie on the fourth hole
with a bogey on the fifth, Woods made four straight birdies,
beginning on the eighth hole. He had a 2-over 74 in the opening
round.  Woods, who failed to qualify for weekend play at last
week’s Wells Fargo Championship, has never missed the cut two
weeks in a row as a professional. He finished 40th in last
month’s  Masters Tournament , golf’s first major of the season,
his worst finish in the event as a professional.  Woods, a 14-time major tournament winner, withdrew from the
Players, golf’s richest tournament with a $9.5 million purse,
each of the past two years. The winner will receive $1.71
million.  Johnson, the winner of the 2007 Masters Tournament, shot 6-
under 66 yesterday with eight birdies and two bogeys following a
2-under score in the opening round.  Rory McIlroy, the world’s No. 1 ranked golfer, missed the
cut with rounds of 72 and 76.  Phil Mickelson , who was inducted
into the World Golf Hall of Fame on May 7, is 2 under for the
tournament after consecutive rounds of 71.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net 
NI EUROPGA
NI FL
NI GEN
NI USPGA 