-- Taiwan’s Dollar Has Biggest Weekly Loss This Year on Outflows
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-05-11T08:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/taiwan-dollar-set-for-biggest-weekly-loss-this-year-on-outflows.html
Taiwan ’s dollar had its biggest
weekly loss this year as investors sold the nation’s assets amid
the political impasse in  Greece . Bonds were little changed.  Foreign funds sold $1.5 billion more Taiwan stocks than
they bought this week, exchange data showed. Exports dropped by
the most in three months in April, an official report showed on
May 7. Greece’s political leaders are struggling to form a
coalition government following a May 6 election, reigniting
concern about the country’s willingness to comply with the terms
of its bailouts.  “The overall risk sentiment is quite negative this week
with the Greek elections inconclusive,” said Goh Puay Yeong, a
Singapore-based foreign-exchange strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG. “The Taiwanese trade numbers were pretty soft. All
this added to weakness in the  Taiwan dollar .”  Taiwan’s dollar declined 0.4 percent this week to NT$29.410
against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The
currency fell 0.1 percent from yesterday. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of price swings that options traders use,
was unchanged this week at 4.30 percent. It fell 17 basis points,
or 0.17 percentage point, today.  Overseas shipments fell 6.4 percent in April from a year
earlier, compared with a 3.2 percent decline in March, as
 Europe ’s debt crisis and slower Chinese growth crimped demand
for its electronic products.  The yield on the island’s 1 percent bonds due January 2017
was little changed this week and dropped one basis point today
to 0.976 percent, according to Gretai Securities Market. The
overnight  money-market  was steady this week and today at 0.51
percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  