-- Malawi Lifts Lending Rate as Costs Rise After Devaluation
-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-05-11T10:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/malawi-lifts-lending-rate-as-costs-rise-after-devaluation.html
Malawi’s central bank raised its
benchmark  interest rate  3 percentage points to 16 percent, days
after devaluing its currency by a third to meet conditions set
by the  International Monetary Fund  and unblock aid flows.  “After the devaluation of the kwacha, we needed to
strengthen the monetary policy and this revision is meant to
address that,” Ralph Tseka, spokesman for the  Reserve Bank  of
Malawi, said in a telephone interview today. “This has also
been determined by a rise in non-food inflation.”  Fuel costs increased by about 30 percent and electricity
prices by 63 percent because of the weaker currency, the Malawi
Energy Regulatory Authority said in an e-mailed statement. The
kwacha will trade freely after being devalued 33 percent to 250
versus the dollar, the central bank said on May 7.  The central bank hasn’t adjusted its benchmark rate since
cutting it 2 percentage points to 13 percent in August 2010.
Inflation accelerated to 11.4 percent in March, the fastest in
more than five years, according to the statistics agency. The
devaluation will raise import costs while boosting earnings from
tobacco sales. The nation is one of the world’s biggest
producers of burley tobacco and is  Africa ’s second-largest tea
grower after  Kenya .  The resumption of aid from countries such as the U.K. and
U.S., which made up more than 40 percent of its budget, depends
on Malawi’s success in meeting IMF conditions, President Joyce Banda said on April 27.  Severed Ties  The U.K. broke diplomatic ties after Bingu wa Mutharika, the
nation’s leader who died in office on April 5, expelled its
envoy. The U.S. stopped aid because of a police crackdown
against protesters last year that led to the death of 19 people.  The southern African nation of 16 million people is one of
the world’s poorest countries, with a gross domestic product of
about $5 billion, according to the  World Bank .  The kwacha strengthened 3.4 percent to 241.50 against the
dollar by 12 p.m. in Lilongwe, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  