-- American Airlines Considers Change in Oldest Jet Livery
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-05-11T21:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/american-airlines-considers-change-in-oldest-jet-livery.html
American Airlines  is studying whether
to adopt a new look for its jets, which sport the oldest livery
among major U.S. carriers and an iconic polished-aluminum finish
in use since the 1930s.  “We have made a decision to embark on a modernization of
our brand,” Chief Commercial Officer Virasb Vahidi said in an
interview. “That could culminate with a potentially new livery
and logo -- that’s something we are evaluating.”  New planes that  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American will begin receiving
in 2013 offer a chance to update its red, white and blue stripes
on the hull and  tail  logo with red and blue A’s and a stylized
eagle. AMR has set a goal of exiting bankruptcy this year, while
 US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  is considering a possible takeover bid.  American’s livery has been in use since 1967, outlasting
mergers, failures and shifting tastes across the industry. A new
exterior also may mean dropping the signature bare-metal skin
that dates to the era of propeller-driven airliners, which the
third-largest U.S. airline has called a fuel-saver because an
unpainted plane weighs less.  “They’ve waited so long to change it that their retro look
has become chic again,” said  Allen Adamson , managing director
of the  New York  office of branding firm Landor Associates, which
has worked with airlines on livery redesigns. “They have to
balance that against what they would be getting from an identity
change, which is best when it’s tied to a bigger story and a
better customer experience. The trickiest time to do all that is
in bankruptcy.”  No Timetable  The brand review began about 18 months ago, Vahidi said.
That was before  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR’s Chapter 11 filing
on Nov. 29 and  US Airways ’ pursuit of American, which includes
signing labor accords with the airline’s unions. US Airways told
the unions the American name would survive in a merger.  Vahidi didn’t give a timetable for a decision on whether
American will change the exteriors of its planes. The cabin
upgrades announced May 9 for wide-body planes used on
international routes are part of American’s brand update, he
said.  American consulted customers and employees, among others,
as part of a “very detailed” assessment of the airline’s brand
equity, or the idea that a well-known name can generate more
revenue than products from a lesser-known brand, Vahidi said.  “People recognized it across the world,” he said of the
brand. “It has a lot of equity in the marketplace.”  Carrier Makeovers  Aircraft makeovers have been common in the U.S. industry in
the past decade.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  combined the paint schemes
of predecessors  United Airlines  and Continental Airlines Inc.
when those carriers merged in 2010.  Delta Air Lines Inc.  updated
its livery four times since 1997, and its purchase of Northwest
Airlines Corp. in 2008 marked the end of the smaller carrier’s
trademark red tails.  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  abandoned its traditional orange,
red and gold livery in 2001 to add blue, and US Airways changed
its design following a 2005 merger with America West Airlines.  Changing a paint scheme on aircraft, which might
necessitate updating signs at airports to reflect the new look,
would be expensive and might end up as a “quilt approach” if
it took too long to complete, Landor’s Adamson said.  “If I’m a creditor in their bankruptcy, I’m wanting to
know why they’re spending this money now,” he said. “They have
to show that it’s more than just looking out a window and seeing
a new color on the plane.”  Dreamliner Challenge  Deliveries of American’s first  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliners
in 2014’s fourth quarter pose a challenge to the airline’s
traditional metal-finish exteriors: The new jets’ fuselage of
composite-plastic materials can’t be polished like the aluminum
skin of the carrier’s other Boeings.  American “is doing a lot of studying” to determine what
the Dreamliner livery will look like, Vahidi said.  After taking Airbus SAS A300s in 1988, the airline
initially painted them gray because of the planemaker’s concern
that the uncovered aluminum would corrode, said  Tim Smith , a
spokesman. American later developed procedures that convinced
Airbus the aluminum could be polished and corrosion prevented,
he said. The airline no longer flies that model.  Deliveries begin next year for the first of 460 Airbus and
Boeing narrow-body planes American ordered in 2011 to refresh
its main jet fleet of 610 aircraft.  Smaller planes flown by the American Eagle regional airline
are painted white and feature the same fuselage stripes as on
American’s jets, with an eagle on the tail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  