-- AMR Said Ready to Study Sale Among Options in Bankruptcy
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-05-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/amr-said-ready-to-explore-sale-among-options-in-creditor-accord.html
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) 
will explore strategic options that include a possible sale
under an agreement with the unsecured creditors committee in its
bankruptcy case, people familiar with the matter said.  The panel pressed for such an accord so AMR’s review of its
options would include studying a merger with  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC) , which is considering whether to mount a takeover bid, said
one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
discussions are private.  The process would begin this summer, before the September
expiration of AMR’s exclusive right to propose a reorganization
plan, the people said.  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR said the
accord calls for assessing “potential consolidation scenarios”
without committing to pursuing a deal.  Exploring options now marks a shift from Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Horton ’s stated goal of having AMR exit Chapter 11
before considering a merger. That approach has been under
pressure after  US Airways  hired advisers, won backing for a tie-
up from American’s unions and began courting creditors.  The “joint exploration protocol agreement” between AMR
and the nine-member creditors group will assess “strategic
alternatives against which the company’s stand-alone business
plan will be vetted,”  Jack Butler , the panel’s attorney, said
in a statement.  AMR’s Statement  AMR Chief Restructuring Officer Beverly Goulet said in a
statement that the committee accord reinforced Horton’s previous
assurances that “what’s best for our company, our people and
our financial stakeholders will be determined by the facts in a
disciplined manner and process. This includes whether American
will choose to pursue any combination down the road.”  US Airways rose 3.6 percent to $11.32 yesterday in  New
York , the highest closing price since January 2011. Shares of
the Tempe, Arizona-based carrier have more than doubled this
year to lead gains in the  U.S. industry .  “A deal with US Airways is what makes the most sense for
creditors, which is their fiduciary responsibility,”  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Trahan & Co. analyst in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s always struck me as odd that AMR was
completely unwilling to listen to US Airways because the offer
is probably compelling and US Airways is a motivated buyer.”  Neither the creditors’ statement nor the announcement from
American referred to US Airways.  US Airways Statement  “We look forward to engaging in the AMR process to
demonstrate the significant advantages of our plan to maximize
value for all constituents,” US Airways said in an e-mailed
statement.  US Airways has held preliminary talks regarding AMR with
 International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , the parent of
American alliance partner British Airways, according to a person
familiar with those discussions.  American and British Airways belong to the Oneworld group,
while US Airways is part of the  Star Alliance , whose dominant
U.S. carrier is  United Airlines. (UAL)   John McDonald , a US Airways
spokesman, declined to comment.  “AA is a strong partner to IAG,” Michele Kropf, a British
Airways spokeswoman, said by e-mail, using the industry
shorthand for American and its London-based counterpart. “We
continue to work with AA as they complete their restructuring
process.”  A combination of American, the third-biggest U.S. carrier,
and No. 5 US Airways would surpass United parent United
Continental Holdings Inc. as the world’s largest airline based
on passenger traffic.  Labor Spending  AMR filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Nov. 29 as it headed
toward a fourth consecutive  annual loss . US Airways has proposed
cutting $800 million a year from labor costs to bring spending
in line with industry standards, compared with a $1.25 billion
annual reduction planned by American.  After signing contracts with American’s unions that would
be contingent on a merger, US Airways has been working to build
support among AMR bondholders, saying a combined carrier would
produce a greater return.  AMR’s $460 million of 6.25 percent notes due October 2014
have almost tripled in price since the company’s bankruptcy
filing, trading at 52 cents on the dollar on May 10, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  US Airways CEO Doug Parker has cited lessons learned from
his failed bid for  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , which was rebuffed by
that carrier’s bankruptcy creditors committee in 2007. US
Airways also failed in attempts to combine with UAL Corp., the
former parent of  United Airlines , in 2008 and 2010.  Strained Labor Ties  In reaching out to American’s labor groups, Parker is
taking advantage of years of strained relations at the larger
carrier, exacerbated most recently by CEO Horton’s Feb. 1 cost-
saving plan to cut 13,000 jobs.  The three biggest unions will begin arguments May 14 in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in New York against American’s attempt to
void contracts and impose new terms. Voting will end the same
day among employees represented by the Transport Workers Union
on an agreement that would cut fewer jobs while still achieving
a 20 percent reduction in labor spending among TWU work groups.  Pilots and flight attendants rallied yesterday in New York
and at American’s headquarters to present no-confidence
petitions. The airline said it trimmed flying by 1.5 percent in
June, the start of the peak U.S. travel season, because pilot
sick days and late-2011 retirements ran ahead of company
forecasts.  “We have no confidence in the current management that got
us in this mess to lead us out,” said Sam Mayer, a pilot union
spokesman who attended the New York rally outside the  bankruptcy
court . “We believe the US Airways business plan represents our
best chance to succeed both as a company and a pilot group.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  