-- ANZ Customers Win High Court Hearing on Banking Fees
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-05-11T03:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/anz-customers-win-high-court-hearing-on-banking-fees.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  customers seeking to recoup fees they claim were illegal
won a hearing before  Australia ’s top court to appeal a partial
dismissal of their complaint, bypassing the usual appeal
process.  Federal Court Justice Michelle Gordon in December dismissed
complaints that charges for insufficient funds in accounts or
for overdrawn bank accounts were illegal because she said they
weren’t penalties. She allowed the lawsuit to proceed in
relation to credit card late-payment charges.  ANZ is the first of 12 banks that  IMF Australia Ltd. (IMF) , the
country’s biggest litigation funder, planned to sue in a bid to
recoup as much as A$5 billion ($5 billion) that Australian
account holders paid in fees since 2005, according to James
Middleweek, managing director at IMF’s Financial Redress Pty
unit. Customers holding more than 249,000 accounts have
registered to sue, according to  IMF’s website.   “These class actions against unfair bank charges are the
largest in Australia’s history,” Paul Gillett, an attorney at
 Maurice Blackburn  Lawyers which is representing the plaintiffs,
said in an e-mailed statement today. “This decision will save
time, money and resources for the courts.”  In usual circumstances, a trial judge’s ruling is heard by
an appeal panel, before being allowed to proceed to the  High
Court . In this case, the High Court agreed to bypass the federal
court appeal panel, Gillett said.  “ANZ sees this as an opportunity to resolve one of the
many questions in this case,” Stephen Ries, a spokesman for the
Melbourne-based bank, said in a phone interview today.  The credit card late-payment charges make up about 40
percent of the A$50 million in refunds for so-called exception
fees sought by ANZ’s customers, according to  Andrew Watson , a
principal at Maurice Blackburn.  The case is: John Andrews v. ANZ Banking Group Ltd.
VID811/2010. Federal Court of Australia (Melbourne).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  