-- Argentina’s YPF Seizure Jeopardizes Vaca Muerta Funds, IEA Says
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-05-11T08:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/argentina-s-ypf-seizure-jeopardizes-vaca-muerta-funds-iea-says.html
Argentina’s seizure of  YPF SA (YPFD) , the
country’s biggest oil producer, may deter investment in the Vaca
Muerta field that contains more than 20 billion barrels of oil
equivalent, the  International Energy Agency  said.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  took a 51 percent
stake in YPF from Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  and this week named
Miguel Galuccio, formerly of  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , to head the
company. YPF holds a 40 percent interest in the 30,000-square-
kilometer (7.4 million-acre) field that holds shale oil and gas.  “The government takeover clouds the investment climate for
international companies that might otherwise have been attracted
to unconventional resources in the Vaca Muerta and other
plays,” the IEA said today in a report. “Absent foreign-
investor guarantees of contract sanctity, the move could deepen
Argentina’s product import needs in the short and medium term.”  Fernandez accused Madrid-based Repsol of failing to invest
enough in YPF to bolster output, forcing Argentina to double
fuel imports to $9.4 billion last year. To reverse the decline
in production, YPF is seeking partners to help it tap the
country’s extensive shale oil and gas reserves.  Repsol has demanded $10.5 billion in compensation for the
seizure, a figure the government rejects. Fernandez said the
National Appraisal Tribunal will set the value of the takeover.  The second-biggest producer in Argentina is  BP Plc (BP/) , which
holds a 60 percent stake in Pan American Energy LLC and was
responsible for 75,000 barrels a day of oil production last
year, compared with YPF’s 275,000 barrels, the IEA said. China
Petrochemical Corp., the state-owned explorer known as Sinopec
Group, was third with 40,000 barrels of output a day last year.  “In the near term we expect to see companies commit to new
investments to secure their positions with the government,” the
IEA said. “Absent guarantees of stability from the government,
producers are unlikely to risk significant investment to develop
shale deposits in the Neuquen basin and to employ costly
technologies to enhance existing production.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  