-- Argentina Gives Vale, Xstrata, Anglo Local Content Deadline
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   S i l v i a   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-05-11T23:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/argentina-gives-vale-xstrata-anglo-local-content-deadline-1-.html
Argentina has given mining companies
 Vale SA (VALE3) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  15 days to present
plans to replace  imports  with goods manufactured in the country
as the South American nation seeks to boost local industries.  “We need a strong mining industry, that generates
development in the regions where it’s installed,” Production
Minister Debora Georgi said today in an e-mailed statement after
giving the miners the deadline at a meeting today in Buenos
Aires.  Pan American Silver Corp. (PAAS)  and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  also
participated in the meeting, according to the statement.  Argentina is seeking to reduce imports and control dollar
outflows after the South American country’s trade surplus shrank
in the past two years. In October, the government ordered miners
and oil producers to repatriate export revenue.  The increase in so-called local content for miners will
occur in two stages, according to the ministry statement. In the
first, goods that are already produced in  Argentina  will replace
imports, while in the second equipment and refining processes
will be developed to increase so-called added value for the
country. No time frame was given for the two stages.  In an effort to stem capital flight that almost doubled
last year to $21.5 billion, Fernandez boosted oversight of the
 currency market  starting the week after her October re-election.
Cash-sniffing dogs were deployed at the main ferry terminal to
Uruguay and she required all purchases of foreign currencies to
have approval from the federal tax agency.  Revising Plans  Vale said this month that it is revising plans to build a
$5.9 billion potash mine in Argentina because it needs to assess
“new elements” regarding the mine, Chief Executive Officer
Murilo Ferreira said May 3.  Argentina last month nationalized 51 percent of YPF SA, the
country’s largest oil company. The seizure was necessary to
boost production after years of dwindling output under former
controlling stakeholder Repsol YPF SA, according to President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner .  A Vale official in Rio didn’t have an immediate comment
about the measures announced today when contacted by Bloomberg
News. Vale shares dropped 2.2 percent to 38.36 reais at 4 p.m.
in Sao Paulo trading.  The Ministry’s plan is in line with Xstrata’s development
at Alumbrera, Julian Rooney, an Xstrata executive in Argentina,
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Officials at Barrick, AngloGold, and Pan American Silver
did not immediately respond to messages from Bloomberg seeking
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Silvia Martinez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 smartinez19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  