-- Arizona Sheriff Sued for Alleged Civil Rights Violations
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-05-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/arizona-sheriff-sued-for-alleged-civil-rights-violations.html
Arizona’s Maricopa County and its
sheriff were accused by the U.S.  Justice Department  of
discriminating against Latinos in a lawsuit that prompted
Sheriff Joseph Arpaio to accuse the Obama administration of
targeting him in an election-year maneuver.  The sheriff’s office, according to the complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Phoenix, denies constitutional
protections to Latino prisoners who have limited English
language skills. The U.S. also alleges in the complaint that the
sheriff’s department has retaliated against perceived critics
with “baseless criminal actions, unfounded civil lawsuits or
meritless administrative actions.”  The alleged discrimination “is the product of a culture of
disregard for Latinos that starts at the top and pervades the
organization,” the Justice Department said in a statement.  Arpaio, who has been elected five times and served 20 years
in office, said President  Barack Obama  is going after him to
court Latino voters.  “They know this is political and they know this has to do
with the president of the  United States ,” he said yesterday at
a news conference in Phoenix.  Arpaio called the timing of the case “highly suspect” in
light of the coming presidential election, in which the Latino
vote may play a critical role, and the  Supreme Court ’s
consideration of Arizona’s immigration law, which was argued on
April 25.  ‘Poster Boy’  “It is a national issue,” he said. “I am the poster boy.
They are using me.”  Justice Department representatives didn’t immediately
return a call after regular business hours seeking comment on
the sheriff’s allegations.  Anna O’Leary, an assistant professor in the Mexican-
American Studies Department at the  University of Arizona , said
she doesn’t believe the Obama administration is playing politics
with the lawsuit. Latinos and others who feel targeted by Arpaio
and other  Arizona  leaders believe the scrutiny from the federal
government is long overdue, she said in a phone interview.  Arpaio “says that to try to find some sympathy for
himself, but people who have lived here and seen those
injustices gone by without addressing, for people who have felt
victimized by him, people like that are really welcoming any
government investigation of what is happening here,” O’Leary
said.  Still, the dispute could help Obama with Latino voters,
O’Leary said. It could also help Arpaio, who is up for re-
election in November, to motivate his base, she said.  Anti-Latino Bias  Sheriff’s office jail employees frequently refer to Latinos
using slurs such as “wetbacks,” “Mexican bitches,” and
“stupid Mexicans,” according to the Justice Department’s
complaint. Supervisors in immigration enforcement show anti-
Latino bias, including sending around an e-mail of a Chihuahua
dressed in swimming gear with a caption that read, “a rare
photo of a Mexican Navy Seal,” according to the complaint.  The Justice Department said in December that the sheriff’s
office discriminated against Latinos with unlawful stops,
arrests and biased jail practices. An inquiry revealed “serious
concerns” that Arpaio didn’t investigate crimes adequately or
provide police protection to the Latino community, Justice
Department officials said.  Joe Popolizio, a lawyer for the sheriff’s office, said at a
news conference in Phoenix that the Justice Department has
refused to provide information to support its findings.  ‘Factual Basis’  “We have repeatedly asked for the factual basis of those
findings,” he said. Popolizio said a lawsuit will require the
Justice Department to share those records and name witnesses.  The Justice Department sent letters to Arpaio and his
department May 9 warning them to expect a lawsuit after they
refused to negotiate a consent agreement. The lawsuit seeks
court-ordered relief ensuring that Arpaio and his department
implement policies and procedures to prevent the conduct alleged
in the complaint.  “Though we provided the Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office
with a draft agreement and were prepared to negotiate it, the
Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office made the decision to cancel
negotiations,” Assistant Attorney General Thomas E. Perez said
in the letters to Arpaio and Maricopa County Attorney  William
Montgomery  in Phoenix.  The negotiations failed because the sheriff’s department
wouldn’t agree to an independent monitor, Perez said yesterday
in a conference call with reporters.  ‘Usurping’ Power  Popolizio said that would be “usurping the power of the
sheriff.”  Arpaio’s department covers the state’s biggest county by
population, with 3.8 million residents. His methods -- which
have included “crime suppression” sweeps in predominantly
Latino areas in and around Phoenix -- have made him a hero to
groups seeking a crackdown on illegal entrants to the U.S. and a
target of advocates for immigrants’ rights.  Arpaio accused the Justice Department of working with
Latino activists who want him out of office. He said he believes
the investigation that led to the lawsuit began under Obama, not
under President  George W. Bush , as he said the Justice
Department contends.  This is the second time the Justice Department has sued a
police department in this type of civil rights case, Perez said.
The earlier case involved the police department in Columbus,
 Ohio , which ultimately settled the case, he said.  Abuse, Retaliation  “At its core, this is an abuse-of-power case involving a
sheriff and sheriff’s office that disregarded the Constitution,
ignored sound police practices, compromised public safety, and
did not hesitate to retaliate against perceived critics,” Perez
said.  The Justice Department said in its complaint that in 2006,
Arpaio decided to turn the sheriff’s office into “a full-
fledged anti-illegal immigration agency.”  Latino drivers and passengers are unlawfully detained to
determine their immigration status when there is no legal basis
to hold them, the Justice Department said. In some parts of the
county, Latino drivers are almost nine times more likely to be
stopped by sheriff officers than non-Latino drivers engaged in
similar conduct, according to the complaint.  John Masterson, a lawyer for the sheriff’s office, said at
yesterday’s news conference that the facts weren’t there to
support the Justice Department’s allegations.  “We will defend this litigation aggressively and we will
seek the information from DOJ that they have refused to
provide,” Masterson said. “They don’t have anything that
supports systematic constitutional violations.”  The case is U.S. v. Maricopa County, 12-00981, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  