-- Arizona Sheriff Facing Civil Rights Suit Says Obama Is Using Him
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-05-11T17:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/arizona-sheriff-facing-civil-rights-suit-says-obama-is-using-him.html
Joe Arpaio says he’s angry.  Standing at the podium before a roomful of reporters in his
Phoenix office yesterday, the 79-year-old sheriff of Maricopa
County, Arizona, called a federal lawsuit alleging
discrimination by his agency an election-year ploy by President
 Barack Obama  to win Latino votes.  “They are using me,” the self-proclaimed “toughest
sheriff in America” said as he outlined what he called the
suspicious timing of the lawsuit and complained about Latino
activists he says demonstrate against him wherever he goes.  “They are getting their political message out right now,
just before the election,” he said. “They want to send a
message that they are taking on the sheriff.”  Arpaio’s claims echo sentiments of fellow state
Republicans, including Governor Jan Brewer, who say Arizona is
under siege by the Obama administration over its approach to
fighting illegal immigration. It’s also part of a strategy that
has helped Arpaio hold onto his elected post for 20 years
through inmate deaths, tens of millions of dollars in legal
settlements, abuse-of-power allegations and the disbarment of a
former county attorney who had been a key ally.  Arizona  is already in the middle of the presidential
campaign. The federal government is challenging its crackdown on
illegal immigrants in a case that has reached the U.S. Supreme
Court.  Mitt Romney , who along with Obama is vying for Hispanic
votes, has taken a tough stance on illegal immigration in his
bid for the Republican presidential nomination.  ‘Just a Patriot’  Now up for re-election in what may be the toughest campaign
of his career, Arpaio has turned to the same rhetoric he’s used
in the past, says Rodolfo Espino, an associate professor of
political science at  Arizona State University  in Tempe.  “This is the card he’s been playing: He is the victim who
is defending the work of Americans, that he is just a patriot
doing the work that no one else does,” Espino, who focuses on
race, politics and political behavior, said in a telephone
interview. “It is the kind of rhetoric we’ve heard from him
over and over again.”  Arpaio, a career law-enforcement officer with the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Administration, won election in 1992 on a pledge to
bring professionalism to the police agency in Arizona’s largest
county, which includes Phoenix. He cultivated a popular tough-
on-crime image by putting inmates in pink underwear, housing
them in tents through desert heat and organizing chain gangs --
with the international media often in tow. As he won fans, he
also faced accusations of abuse in his jails, which became the
focus of Justice Department scrutiny in the mid-1990s.  Drawing His Ire  Rick Romley, a Republican who served as Maricopa County
attorney from 1989 to 2004 and again temporarily in 2010,
quickly became embroiled in high-profile disputes with Arpaio.
He said tensions grew after he blocked as unconstitutional an
Arpaio plan to stop cars entering the county in search of drugs.
Later, Romley said he drew the sheriff’s ire for prosecuting
officers for the death of an inmate who had been strapped to a
restraint chair and for not pursuing charges in a high-profile
prostitution sting in which Arpaio’s volunteer posse members
engaged in sexual activity to make the busts.  “The way Joe maneuvered through those things -- he was
very good,” Romley said. “Rather than focus on the death of
the inmate or the abuses in his jail, every time something came
up, he’d characterize it through the media as a personal feud
between Arpaio and Romley.”  Deflecting Scrutiny  “It is the pattern and the way that Joe has been very
successful in deflecting any real scrutiny on his conduct,”
said Romley, whom Arpaio helped defeat in the Republican primary
for county attorney in 2010, in a telephone interview. “For
some reason, he seems to have his finger on the pulse of issues
that the public can get behind him on.”  As immigration began to dominate voter concerns in Arizona,
Arpaio organized “crime suppression” sweeps in predominantly
Hispanic neighborhoods, which made him a hero to groups seeking
a crackdown on illegal entrants to the U.S. and a target of
advocates for immigrants’ rights.  Shane Wikfors, communications director for the Arizona
Republican Party, said Arpaio is “the point of the spear” in
what many people in the state see as a battle over the border
and states’ rights between Arizona Republican leaders and the
Obama administration.                              “The federal government has targeted Arpaio as a way to
personify what they are fighting against,” Wikfors said. “We
believe the Obama administration is using the  Department of
Justice  to turn Arpaio into a target or essentially a bogey man
for the Hispanic community to go after.”  While Wikfors said Arpaio will handily win re-election in
November, as he has in his past five contests, he said the
federal suit could become a bigger challenge this election.  Going after Obama helps him with his base, Wikfors said.  “Everyone knows Joe loves to be the center of attention,”
Wikfors said. “He loves the opportunity to take on the Obama
administration. He loves being in the spotlight. And this may be
his biggest battle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
acrawford24@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  