-- Harrisburg New Receiver Named as Corbett Turns to General
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-05-11T19:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/harrisburg-gets-new-receiver-as-corbett-appoints-former-general.html
Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett
named William B. Lynch, a retired U.S. Air Force major general,
to serve as receiver for Harrisburg, the capital trying to stave
off bankruptcy.  If approved by a state court, he would succeed David Unkovic, a former bond lawyer who cited “political and ethical
crosswinds” when he resigned March 30. The court earlier agreed
to a recovery plan submitted by Unkovic to lease or sell city
assets to help reduce its debt load.  “Lynch’s experience leading diverse groups to a common
solution is critical to success in this position,” Corbett, a
Republican, said today in a statement. “I have the greatest
confidence that the general will get us all back on track and
focused on a better future for the people of Harrisburg.”  C. Alan Walker, the secretary of Community and Economic
Development, asked the court to appoint Lynch, 69. The general
has assisted U.S. reconstruction efforts in  Iraq  and oversaw the
Pennsylvania National Guard from 1999 through 2004.  “I’m a bit of a sucker for challenge,” Lynch told
reporters at briefing in Harrisburg. “This seems to be
something that needs to be done. It seems to be something that
can be done particularly by someone who doesn’t bring a lot of
preconceived notions to the issue.”  Bob Philbin, a spokesman for Mayor  Linda Thompson , called
the appointment of Lynch, a Vietnam War veteran, “perfect.”  Leadership Needed  “Implementing a recovery plan is not unlike a complex
military operation,” he said by telephone. “What’s needed is
strong, forceful leadership.”  Unkovic quit two days after he requested state and federal
probes of financing of an overhaul and expansion of a municipal
trash-to-energy incinerator that drove the city into insolvency.  City Council President Wanda Williams, Controller  Dan Miller  and Treasurer John Campbell have asked a judge to suspend
the state takeover until Unkovic’s departure is investigated.  “It doesn’t matter if Corbett appoints Ghandi, Mother
Teresa or  Warren Buffett ,”  Mark Schwartz , a lawyer from  Bryn
Mawr  who represented the three, said by e-mail. “A new receiver
without a new environment means little.”  Free Hand  Once appointed, Lynch can carry out recovery initiatives
without the consent of the council and the mayor. Unkovic’s plan
also called for savings from labor contracts and concessions
from creditors, once the value of city assets was determined.  After Unkovic resigned, Corbett asked Walker’s agency to
implement the former receiver’s proposals. Unkovic had said he
would submit a more detailed plan for final court approval.  Separately, the  economic development  department provided an
update on the recovery plan to the Commonwealth Court, which is
overseeing its progress. Sales or leases of some city assets
have been put off until after June, while a transaction
involving the incinerator remains on track to be completed that
month.  Harrisburg racked up more than $300 million in obligations
tied to the incinerator, which doesn’t generate enough revenue
to repay the debt. The city of about 49,500 began skipping bond
payments in 2009, forcing Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. and
Dauphin County to cover them and adding penalties to what it
owes.  The creditors won a ruling from a county court to establish
a separate receiver for the incinerator, and have asked for the
appointment of Robin Davidov, a retired executive in  Maryland ,
to the post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  