-- Asian Currencies Decline This Week on Greece, Export Slowdown
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-05-11T22:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/asian-currencies-set-for-weekly-loss-on-greece-export-slowdown.html
Asian currencies had their worst
back-to-back weekly loss this year after a political impasse in
 Greece  roiled global markets and official reports showed exports
from China, Malaysia and the Philippines slowed.  South  Korea ’s won had its worst five-day drop since
December while Malaysia’s ringgit and the Philippine peso slid
the most in eight weeks as global funds pulled $1.1 billion out
of emerging-market stocks, according to a Citigroup Inc. report
citing EPFR Global data. Greece’s political leaders are yet to
agree on forming a new government following a May 6 election,
fueling concern the country will renege on bailout accords.
French Socialist Francois Hollande, who has called austerity
measures to be delayed, was elected president.  “Events in  Europe  continue to put risk appetite in Asia
under pressure,” said Roy Teo, a currency strategist at ABN
Amro Private Bank in Singapore. “The risk is still to the
downside, especially with renewed worries about  China ’s economic
growth.”  The won slumped 1.3 percent this week to 1,146.55 per
dollar at the close yesterday in Seoul, the biggest loss in five
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ringgit
dropped 1 percent to 3.0716, the peso weakened 0.6 percent to
42.565 and Thailand’s baht fell 0.7 percent to 31.19 per dollar,
the lowest since January.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia  Dollar Index  dropped 0.4
percent from a week ago and reached the lowest level since Jan.
18 on May 9. It lost 0.7 percent over the past two weeks, the
most since December. Its 60-day historical volatility rose to
2.75 percent from 2.72 percent a week ago. The MSCI Asia Pacific
 Index (MXAP)  of stocks plunged 4.5 percent, the biggest weekly loss
since November, as JPMorgan Chase & Co. disclosed a $2 billion
trading loss on synthetic credit securities.  Slowing Exports  “Overseas investors continuing to sell Korean stocks and
ongoing uncertainties in Europe are limiting demand for the
won,” said Hong Seok Chan, a Seoul-based currency analyst at
Daeshin Economy Research Institute.  Asian currencies tumbled after government reports this week
showed Malaysia’s exports unexpectedly shrank 0.1 percent in
March from a year earlier while shipments from Philippines
contracted 1.2 percent. China’s overseas sales grew 4.9 percent
while imports rose 0.3 percent in April, both trailing
economists’ forecasts.  “The weak data cast doubts on the strength of China’s
domestic consumption,” said Banny Lam, a Hong Kong-based
economist at CCB International Securities Ltd., a unit of
China’s second-largest bank. The  yuan  may trade around 6.3 per
dollar this quarter, he said.  China’s currency declined 0.07 percent to 6.3106 per dollar
in Shanghai yesterday from a week ago. It touched 6.3188
yesterday, the weakest level since April 20.  Interest Rates  The Bank of Korea kept its benchmark interest rate at 3.25
percent on May 10, while  Bank Indonesia  maintained its  reference
rate  at 5.75 percent.  Bank Negara Malaysia  kept the policy rate
at 3 percent for a sixth straight meeting, the central bank said
in a statement in  Kuala Lumpur .  The rupee completed a sixth weekly decline. The currency
pared losses after the  Reserve Bank  of India announced policy
changes to arrest its slide toward a record low.  The Indian currency dropped 0.3 percent this week to
53.6350 per dollar in Mumbai. It fell 0.4 percent yesterday and
touched 53.905 on May 10, 0.7 percent stronger than its record
low of 54.305 on Dec. 15. The central bank said May 10 that
exporters must convert half of their overseas earnings, with
compliance set within a fortnight.  ‘At The Bottom’  “We’re pretty much at the bottom in terms of the rupee and
most of the bad news is in the price,” Hans Goetti, the
Singapore-based chief investment officer for  Asia  at Finaport
Investment Intelligence that oversees $1.5 billion, told
Bloomberg UTV May 10. “We don’t see much of a downside risk for
Indian markets from here.”  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar slipped 0.4 percent to
NT$29.410, snapping a four-week advance. Indonesia’s rupiah
gained 0.4 percent this week to 9,240 on suspected intervention
by the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 