-- AT&T CEO Complains That Regulatory Logjam Stymies Deals
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-05-11T22:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/at-t-ceo-complains-that-regulatory-logjam-stymies-deals.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  Chief Executive Officer
 Randall Stephenson  said  Washington  needs to figure out how to
clear a regulatory logjam that’s hampering wireless growth and
forcing companies to raise prices.  The industry is waiting for the Federal Communications
Commission to decide on Verizon Wireless’s proposed $3.6 billion
partnership with cable companies, including  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  The
review of that agreement, announced in December, is holding up
related deals for spectrum by AT&T and others, Stephenson said.  The popularity of the iPhone and other smartphones is
putting pressure on existing networks, prompting wireless
carriers to seek more capacity in crowded markets. The FCC has
to sign off on each transaction, and its rate of decision making
can’t keep pace with the industry’s evolving needs, he said.  “The industry is just kind of stuck and we’re all sitting
here watching Verizon-Comcast waiting to see what happens,”
Stephenson said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York. “You have got to make sure we put
spectrum in the market. They need to become liquid spectrum
markets.”  AT&T, based in  Dallas , says it faces a shortage of spectrum
-- the airwaves that let mobile devices make calls and download
data. Ever since its $39 billion takeover of  T-Mobile USA  Inc.
was shot down by regulators in December, Stephenson has warned
that the constraints on airwave expansion will cause higher
prices. When spectrum is tight, the only recourse carriers have
is to charge more, degrade quality or throttle service, he said.  No Delay?  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  fired back at AT&T this
week, saying that the failure of the T-Mobile deal didn’t create
an industry shortage on its own. There hasn’t been a holdup in
the regulatory process, he said.  “We have approved hundreds of wireless transactions
involving approximately 1,000 spectrum licenses, some involving
licenses valued at billions of dollars,” Genachowski said in a
speech at the CTIA International Wireless show this week.  AT&T won approval from federal regulators for a $1.93
billion purchase of  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  airwaves in December, three
days after dropping its plan to buy T-Mobile USA.  Neil Grace, a spokesman for the FCC, declined to comment
yesterday.  Leap Talks  In February, the Wall Street Journal reported that AT&T was
in takeover talks with  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) , a pay-
as-you-go carrier in  San Diego . A Reuters report  reiterated 
yesterday that AT&T had held discussions with Leap in recent
months, boosting Leap’s shares 7.8 percent today.  Gregory Miller, an analyst with Collins Stewart LLC, said
in February that there was little chance of AT&T buying Leap.  AT&T shares rose 1.4 percent to $33.59 at the close in New
York. The stock has climbed 11 percent this year.  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless-service provider,
says that the industry would push ahead with more spectrum
purchases if the government weighed in on  Verizon (VZ) ’s agreement
with cable companies. That deal would let Verizon, the No. 1
U.S. carrier, buy a major swath of unused spectrum from a group
led by Comcast.  Companies should be able to buy and sell spectrum more
freely, letting them better satisfy regional demand, Stephenson
said. A carrier in one city may have low market share and more
than enough spectrum, while another company has lots of
customers and inadequate airwaves to serve them. The government
approval process doesn’t let the industry make deals quickly
enough to meet customers’ needs, AT&T argues.  Fostering Competition  For its part, the FCC is trying to balance the allocation
of spectrum so that customers always have several service
providers to choose from. The intent is to keep prices down by
ensuring competition.  Stephenson said that distributing spectrum among
competitors who can’t use it efficiently doesn’t help. The
government either has to let companies pool their spectrum or
risk pushing underperforming companies out of business, he said.  “The industry is going to consolidate whether you like it
or not,” he said. “If you don’t allow consolidation, some
companies will go away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  