-- Aussie Set for Second Weekly Drop on Stocks, China Output
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-05-11T06:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/aussie-set-for-second-weekly-drop-on-stocks-china-output.html
The Australian dollar headed for a
second weekly drop versus its U.S. counterpart as Asian equities
fell, curbing demand for higher-yielding currencies.  The so-called Aussie is set to slide for a third week
against the yen after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  disclosed a $2
billion trading loss, highlighting volatility in global
financial markets. The Australian and New Zealand currencies
weakened after reports showed gains industrial production and
retail sales in  China  missed forecasts, damping the export
outlook for the South Pacific nations.  “The latest round of selling in the Aussie is because of
the China data,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at
Forecast Pte in Singapore. “The reports triggered concerns that
China may be slowing, and there’s a bit of  risk aversion  at the
moment.”  Australia ’s dollar dropped to $1.0018, the weakest since
Dec. 20, before trading 0.6 percent lower at $1.0021 at 4:24
p.m. in Sydney, set for a 1.6 percent drop this week. It fell
0.7 percent to 80.05 yen, having lost 1.5 percent since May 4.
The Aussie may weaken to 95 U.S. cents by June, Lee said.  New Zealand’s currency declined 0.4 percent to 78.25 U.S.
cents. It bought 62.48 yen, 0.5 percent below yesterday’s close.
The so-called kiwi is poised for a 1.6 percent one-week drop
versus the greenback. Against the yen, it has also retreated 1.6
percent since May 4.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares fell 1 percent today
and is poised for a second week of losses.  Trade Failure  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the
company lost money on synthetic credit securities after an
“egregious” failure in its chief investment office, which the
bank says focuses on hedging.  “The Aussie is unfortunately a victim of any sign of
global uncertainty,” said Kurt Magnus, executive director of
currency sales in Sydney at Nomura Holdings Inc. “The catalyst
for weakness was certainly the unfortunate news about JPMorgan’s
losses.”  China’s  industrial output  rose 9.3 percent in April from a
year earlier while retail sales increased 14.1 percent, a
government report showed today. The figures compare with
estimates for production to climb 12.2 percent and for sales to
advance 15.1 percent.  China Inflation Eases  The inflation rate slowed last month, with consumer prices
climbing 3.4 percent over the previous year, the National Bureau
of Statistics said earlier today. The producer-price index
declined 0.7 percent, the biggest slide since November 2009 and
exceeding forecasts for a 0.5 percent drop.  China is Australia’s biggest trading partner and  New
Zealand ’s second-largest export destination.  Australia’s 10-year bond yield fell six basis points to a
record 3.279 percent. The rate on the 15-year security touched
3.611 percent, also an all-time low. New Zealand’s two-year swap
rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating rates, advanced
three basis points to 2.62 percent. It reached an all-time low
of 2.46 percent on May 7.  The Aussie has lost 2.4 percent this year, the worst
performance after the yen among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The kiwi has advanced 0.4 percent.  In New Zealand, the  value of retail transactions  on
electronic cards climbed 0.8 percent in April after gaining 0.3
percent in the previous month, according to government report
released today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 0.5 percent advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  