-- Avon Board Said to Study Coty Due-Diligence Request
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-05-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/avon-board-evaluating-coty-due-diligence-list.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP) ’s board is
evaluating a due-diligence request from Coty Inc. that seeks
information on future products, global expenses, headcount and
legal liabilities as the board decides whether to start merger
talks, according to people familiar with the matter.  The one-page, seven-bullet-point list, which has not been
made public, was attached to Coty’s letter last week to Avon
that raised the takeover offer to $10.7 billion from $10
billion, said one of the people, who wouldn’t be identified
because the matter is confidential. New York-based Avon made the
letter public while keeping the diligence list private.  Among Coty’s requests are that Avon give an understanding
of its management structure and operations; detailed statements
of profit,  cash flow  and balance sheets by  country ; and a review
of research-and-development spending as well as all of Avon’s
future products, said one of the people, who read from a copy of
the list.  Coty also asked to review Avon’s treasury, credit, cash,
tax and  pension  situations; Avon’s global selling, general and
administrative expenses; and its legal risks tied to the Foreign
Corrupt Practice Act, said this person. Avon and the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission are probing the company’s
operations abroad for possible violations of the act, which
prohibits executives from bribing foreign officials.  Reluctant Directors  Some Avon  board  members are telling investors they are
reluctant to turn over all of the information Coty is seeking,
especially the future product details, said another person
familiar with the matter. These investors have been pressing
Coty executives to trim the list as soon as possible to persuade
Avon’s board to begin talks before Coty’s deadline, this person
said.  Asking for such a detailed breakdown is unusual in the
early stages of a process, according to  Erik Gordon , a professor
at the  University of Michigan ’s Ross School of Business.  “At this point, what is appropriate is to ask for the kind
of information that would justify a higher bid price,” such as
a blockbuster new product in the pipeline, Gordon said in a
telephone interview.  Coty raised its bid earlier this week and said the proposal
had equity backing from  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
The new offer, which has a deadline of May 14, is subject to due
diligence and other conditions, according to Coty’s letter.  Avon said yesterday it would consider Coty’s letter “in
due course.”  Representatives of both companies confirmed yesterday that
they had been contacted by the SEC as part of a probe into
suspicious trading around the time Coty made its offer. Both
said they were cooperating. SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined
to comment.  Coty Chairman Bart Becht is working to draw Avon into a
deal that would add a new door-to-door distribution channel for
Coty’s cosmetics.  Avon fell 3.4 percent to $20.19 at the close yesterday in
New York. The shares have gained 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  