-- Lawyer Little Charged With 11-Year Swiss Tax-Fraud Scheme
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-05-11T17:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/lawyer-little-charged-with-11-year-swiss-tax-fraud-scheme.html
The U.S. charged Michael Little, an
attorney, with participating in an 11-year conspiracy that
defrauded the  Internal Revenue Service  using Swiss bank accounts
and sham mortgage transactions.  Little and unidentified co-conspirators, including five
members of an U.S.-based family, first met at a New York hotel
in August 2001, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a
criminal complaint filed today.  During the meeting, Little advised family members,
identified in court papers as the “S Family,” on how they
could bring back to the U.S., without paying taxes, $10 million
in overseas accounts that belonged to the family’s recently
deceased patriarch.  Little assisted family members with opening an account at
UBS AG in  Switzerland  and conducting sham mortgage transactions
designed to get the money into the U.S. without alerting the
IRS, the government alleged in the filing in federal court in
 Manhattan .  From 2001 and 2008 Little met with the matriarch of the
family to discuss the transfer of funds and “caused millions of
dollars” to be sent from offshore to the U.S. account of an
entity she controlled, according to the complaint. The matriarch
“made personal and other use of the money,” prosecutors said.  Other unidentified people involved in the scheme include a
New Jersey accountant, a lawyer in Switzerland and the eldest
member of the S Family, described as a New York businessman who
also inherited funds in offshore accounts.  One of the relatives has pleaded guilty to federal charges
and is cooperating with the government’s investigation,
prosecutors said. Two of that person’s siblings have also
provided information to the U.S., prosecutors say.  The case is U.S. v. Little, 12-MAG-1241, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  