-- Bank of Japan Pledges to Provide Emergency Liquidity: Full Text
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-11T05:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/bank-of-japan-pledges-to-provide-emergency-liquidity-full-text.html
Following is a reformatted version of
a  Bank of Japan  statement on changes in its management of
foreign-exchange reserves, released in  Tokyo  today.  Revisions to the Management of Foreign Currency Assets  The Bank of Japan (Bank), as the central bank of Japan,
holds foreign currency assets in preparation for the smooth and
flexible conduct of its policies and related operations. The
Bank has considered a high degree of safety and liquidity to be
essential when managing its foreign currency assets, and,
provided this condition is met, return shall also be taken into
consideration.  The Bank believes that the basic principle described above
continues to be appropriate. In the light of recent changes in
international financial and capital market conditions, the Bank
has reexamined the underlying operational needs for holding
foreign currency assets and the risks associated with holding
such assets. As a result, the Bank has concluded that it is
appropriate to place increased emphasis on safety and liquidity
when managing its foreign currency assets. The Bank has
therefore decided to establish the “Principal Terms and
Conditions for the Management of Foreign Currency Assets”
(Annex), which will replace the current “Guidelines for the
Management of External Assets Held by the Bank.” The principles
guiding the revision are as follows.  1. Recent Changes in International Financial Markets  International financial and capital markets have shown
increasing volatility in the wake of the global financial crisis.
There have been situations where the market liquidity of assets
once considered as relatively safe has deteriorated, accompanied
by, in some cases, increased credit risk. In the closely
interconnected global financial and capital markets, there has
been a growing tendency for a financial shock in one corner of
the world to spill over into other markets, and the speed of
such spillovers has accelerated.  Amid ongoing economic globalization, it is essential for
Japanese firms to take advantage of expanding global demand in
order to strengthen further the foundations for  Japan ’s economic
growth.  2. Purposes of Holding Foreign Currency Assets  Considering the recent changes in the environment as
mentioned above, the Bank believes that the following purposes
would result in the effective use of its foreign currency assets.  (1) International financial cooperation  In the face of turmoil in the international financial and
capital markets, time may be necessary before international
organizations and other relevant institutions are able to take
necessary measures. In such types of situations, from the
perspective of international cooperation, the Bank, as the
central bank of Japan, would be prepared to provide foreign
currency until international support is provided.  (2) Emergency liquidity provision in foreign currency to
Japanese financial institutions  Currently, Japanese financial institutions do not face any
problems with their foreign currency funding. However, should an
extraordinary situation occur, where Japanese financial
institutions face serious trouble in foreign currency
settlements and are unable to resolve the situation by
themselves, and if the Bank judges that it is urgent and there
is no alternative in order to ensure the stability of Japan’s
financial system, the Bank would be prepared to provide
liquidity in foreign currency.  (3) Fund-provisioning measure to support strengthening the
foundations for economic growth  The Bank is prepared for the smooth implementation of the
U.S. dollar lending arrangement for investments and loans
denominated in foreign currency which contribute to
strengthening the foundations for Japan’s economic growth.  3. Control of Risks Associated with Holding of Foreign Currency
Assets  Given the increased volatility of asset prices brought
about by recent changes in international financial market
conditions, there is a growing need to contain the potential
risks of financial loss associated with holding foreign currency
assets.  4. Principles of the Management of Foreign Currency Assets  The Bank considers it appropriate to place increased
emphasis on a greater degree of safety and liquidity when
managing its foreign currency assets. This would be consistent
with the preparation for conducting operations in accordance
with the purposes of holding foreign currency assets, and with
the need to contain risks from holding such assets. Specifically,
the Bank shall hold foreign currency assets primarily in
deposits with foreign central banks and government securities
with a high degree of liquidity and creditworthiness. For the
time being, the government securities shall mainly be those
issued by the  United States  and major European countries. This
will enable the Bank to encash foreign currency assets smoothly
and promptly as needed for conducting its operations, and also
to reduce to a minimum the financial risks associated with
holding foreign currency assets.  The Bank will continue to utilize its foreign currency
assets effectively and to endeavor to manage risks appropriately
in response to changes in financial and economic circumstances.  (Annex)  Principal Terms and Conditions for the Management of Foreign
Currency Assets  1. Objective  These Terms and Conditions prescribe the requisite
principles for the management of the Bank of Japan’s foreign
currency assets (foreign currency and assets denominated in
foreign currency as defined in Article 9, Paragraph 2 of the
Ordinance for Enforcement of the Bank of Japan Act, Ordinance
No.3, 1998, excluding assets used in operations [as defined in
Chapter 4 of the Bank of Japan Act, Act No. 89, 1997], hereafter
“foreign currency assets”) with an emphasis on safety and
liquidity.  2. Holding Purpose and Management Principle  The Bank of Japan (Bank) holds foreign currency assets in
preparation to conduct the following operations, defined in
Chapter 4 of the Bank of Japan Act, while ensuring a high degree
of safety and liquidity.
(1) International financial cooperation;
(2) Emergency liquidity provision in foreign currency to
Japanese financial institutions;
(3) Loans in the U.S. dollar as a fund-provisioning measure to
support strengthening the foundations for economic growth.  3. Composition of Foreign Currency Assets  Foreign currency assets can be composed of the following
financial assets denominated in U.S. dollars, euros, and pounds
sterling (confined exclusively to those considered appropriate
in the light of the principles described in 2, above).
(1) Deposits with central banks and other institutions of
foreign countries;
(2) Securities issued by governments and other institutions of
foreign countries with maturity not exceeding 5 years.  4. Management Practices of Foreign Currency Assets
(1) Financial assets which the Bank holds in preparation for
immediate use can be held in the form of deposits with central
banks and other institutions of foreign countries and securities
denominated in U.S. dollars with maturity not exceeding 1 year.
(2) Foreign currency assets excluding those described in (1) are
composed of the financial assets defined in 3, and their
composition is managed in the following manner.
(a) The currency composition is adjusted so that it tracks the
benchmark currency composition, which is calculated based on the
market capitalizations of the  government securities  with
maturity of 1-5 years (1 year or more, and less than 5 years)
defined in 3 (2).
(b) The composition is adjusted so that the price volatilities
caused by interest rate fluctuations track those of the
government securities markets with maturity of 1-5 years (1 year
or more, and less than 5 years) defined in 3 (2).
(c) When the Bank adjusts the composition as necessary to
accomplish (a) and (b), it shall make transactions with care to
avoid disrupting financial and foreign exchange markets.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  