-- Banxico Highlights Rate Cut Option Amid Loose Global Policy
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-05-11T15:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/banxico-highlights-rate-cut-option-amid-loose-global-policy-1-.html
Mexican policy makers were unanimous
in their decision to keep the key  interest rate  unchanged last
month, while signaling willingness to cut should global monetary
policy remain loose and European financial markets stabilize.  The board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, kept the
overnight rate at 4.5 percent on April 27 for a 26th consecutive
meeting.  The majority of policy makers said “that the posture of
monetary policy in  Mexico  is being tightened more than desired
due to the actions of other countries,” according to the
minutes of the meeting published today on the bank’s  website .
“If an improvement in the global financial markets’ stability
is achieved, particularly in  Europe , it could be viable to relax
monetary policy.”  Mexico’s annual inflation slowed for a third consecutive
month in April as a record drought in the north of the country
eased, reducing pressure on food costs. Economists surveyed by
the central bank this month cut their 2012 inflation forecast
for a second consecutive month.  The lender said the risks to inflation are unchanged, while
the likelihood of an economic slowdown has abated. A weaker
monetary posture would still be compatible with the inflation
target, it said.  “The minutes were as dovish as the last minutes,”  Gabriel Casillas , chief Mexico economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said
in a phone interview from Mexico City. “The main message is
rate cuts are contingent on a better global financial
environment. In order to forecast a rate cut for Banxico now,
you have to forecast when the situation in Europe is going to be
fixed, and this is a more tricky projection.”  Inflation Slows  The peso traded at 13.4922 per  U.S. dollar  at 10:50 a.m.
Mexico City time, up 0.2 percent from 13.5140 yesterday.  The inflation rate fell to a six-month low of 3.41 percent
in April from 3.73 percent the month before, the national
statistics agency said on May 9.  Even before that, economists had cut their year-end
inflation forecast to an average 3.68 percent this month from
3.78 percent in April and 3.88 percent in March, according to a
monthly survey by the central bank.  The bank said the prospects for economic growth have
improved as exports pick up, according to notes accompanying its
April 27 decision.  Minority View  Some central bank policy makers disagreed that Mexico’s
monetary policy is too tight, according to the minutes. One of
the five members of the committee said that peso weakness has
relaxed the monetary policy. One member also stressed the need
for Mexico to slow inflation to its 3 percent target as soon as
possible.  The economy is likely to expand at the top end of the
central bank’s 3 percent to 4 percent target range after data
beat forecasts this year, Carstens said in a March 23 interview.  Consumer confidence  soared to a four-year high in April and
the  trade surplus  reached $1.6 billion in March, the  highest 
monthly figure since at least 1985. Economic growth accelerated
to 6.24 percent in February, according to the national
statistics agency’s global economic indicator, more than the 5.5
percent median forecast of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The peso has strengthened 3.2 percent this year, the third-
best performance of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after the British pound and  Singapore Dollar .  The central bank next meets on June 8 to decide on rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eric Martin  in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 