-- BBB Debt Penalized Least Since 2009 Paces Colorado: Muni Credit
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-05-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/bbb-debt-penalized-least-since-2009-paces-colorado-muni-credit.html
Colorado  is posting the best returns
among U.S. states this year in the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond
market, bolstered by growing demand for BBB rated securities.  Debt from Colorado has earned 5.1 percent in 2012, the most
among 26 states tracked by  Standard & Poor’s  and beating the
broader market’s 4 percent gain. The performance is unusual for
the Centennial State, whose annual returns have been no better
than sixth-best since 2002 among U.S. states and territories,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  With local-government  interest rates  close to the  lowest 
since the 1960s, investors are pushing into weaker credits for
their higher yields. As a result, issuers selling tax-exempt
bonds rated BBB, the lowest tier of investment grade, are paying
the  smallest  penalty since 2009. Of the 10 issues with the
biggest weightings in Colorado’s S&P index, five have grades in
the BBB area or lower.  “The best-performing-quality tier to date is the BBB
quality tier,” said Steve Czepiel, a portfolio manager in
Philadelphia for the $242 million  Delaware Tax-Free Colorado
Fund. (VCTFX)  “That’s helped Colorado perform better.”  Munis are off to their best annual start in three years as
fixed-income assets have rallied on signs the U.S. economic
rebound is cooling. Yet BBBs are doing even better.  The segment has earned 6.3 percent this year, to 2.5
percent for AAA bonds, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.
Ten-year tax-exempt securities with a BBB grade yield about 3.25
percent, or about 1.31 percentage points more than top-grade
debt, according to Bloomberg Fair Value data. The  gap  is the
smallest since October 2009.  Economy Gains  Colorado is also luring investors as its economy recovers
from the 18-month U.S. recession that ended in 2009.  The state cut spending on education and other programs to
close a combined $2.95 billion of gaps from 2010 through this
year. Higher tax revenue allowed the state to hold per-pupil
funding steady for primary schools for the first time since
fiscal 2009, Governor John Hickenlooper, a first-term Democrat,
said when he signed the budget this month.  “One of the main factors is the Colorado economy” in
explaining the bonds’ performance, said Chris Drahn, who manages
the $116 million Nuveen Colorado Municipal Bond Fund from
 Minneapolis . “People around the country like it, and are more
comfortable with it compared to other states.”  Outpacing Rivals  Colorado outpaced 42 states last year, according to the
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States. Its index of economic
health rose 1.5 percent in the period, eighth-best.  At 7.8 percent in March, Colorado’s jobless rate was below
the national average of 8.2 percent.  Colorado has a AA issuer rating from S&P, third-highest,
though by state law it isn’t allowed to sell general-obligation
bonds. The S&P index includes issuers ranging from agencies
financing transit projects to school districts and Denver
airport-revenue debt.  “The big drivers of Colorado debt are $100 million to $200
million deals in lower-quality bonds on projects that were done
well,” said Ron Speaker, president of Equus Private Wealth
Management in Carbondale, Colorado.  Equus, which focuses on Colorado tax-exempt bonds, bought
debt last month in the health-care segment, including a five-
year revenue bond with a 3 percent yield that will help fund a
$120 million expansion at Aspen Valley Hospital.  Following are pending deals:  COLORADO HEALTH FACILITIES AUTHORITY plans to sell about
$171 million in tax-exempt revenue bonds as soon as next week,
according to an offering document. The proceeds will be used to
refund debt on behalf of The Evangelical Lutheran Good Samaritan
Society and finance capital projects. S&P rates the bonds A-,
seventh-highest, with a negative outlook. Citigroup Inc. is the
underwriter. (Added May 11)  METROPOLITAN ATLANTA RAPID TRANSIT AUTHORITY plans to sell
about $327 million in refunding bonds as soon as next week,
according to the offering document. The bonds will be backed by
 tax revenue . Moody’s rates the bonds Aa3, fourth-highest. The
debt will be priced competitively. (Updated May 10)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 Joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  