-- Berkeley Shares Rebound on Capital Property Hope: London Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-05-11T15:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/berkeley-shares-rebound-on-capital-property-hope-london-mover.html
Berkeley Group Holdings Plc (BKG) , the
U.K.’s worst performing publicly traded homebuilder this year,
rebounded from a five-month low as investors bet that exposure
to London residential real estate will boost annual earnings.  Most of Cobham, England-based Berkeley’s rivals have gained
in recent months as they boosted efforts in the U.K. capital
after the British housing market plummeted in 2008, Mike Bessell, an analyst at Investec Ltd., said in a phone interview.  Berkeley advanced for a third consecutive day, rising
2 percent for a three-day gain of 5.8 percent, the biggest since
Jan. 10. The shares, the worst performer in the  FTSE 350
Household Goods & Home Construction Index (F3HOUGE)  this year, hit a five-
month low on May 8. That came even as Berkeley has the highest
percentage of buy recommendations from analysts among companies
in the index.  Berkeley abandoned high-volume homebuilding in 2004 and
concentrated on houses rather than apartments in urban areas. It
has benefited by focusing on London and southeast  England , where
 house prices  have been the most resilient as the economy
continues to falter.  “Berkeley is entirely focused on the southeast and 50
percent of its operations are in London, which are the strongest
performing markets in the U.K,” Bessell said.  The homebuilder has “never been seen as a recovery play”
by investors, while competitors such as Barratt Developments Plc
and  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/)  are in “recovery mode,” the analyst
said. The two rivals both took millions of pounds in writedowns
following the housing collapse and have risen 40 percent and 24
percent, respectively, this year. Berkeley shares have declined
2.4 percent.  Earnings Prediction  Berkeley’s  pretax profit  may gain 30 percent to 177.8
million pounds in the fiscal year ended April 30, a according to
the average estimate from 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Barratt (BDEV) , the U.K.’s largest homebuilder by volume, said
yesterday that it had the best spring selling season in five
years as reservations and prices increased. Its shares rose
5.4 percent, the most in more than two months, and gained
another 3 percent today.  Residential real estate values in London will decline 0.5
percent this year, beating a 2 percent drop for the rest of the
U.K., according to real estate broker  Savills Plc. (SVS)   Among recommendations shared with Bloomberg by analysts,
Berkeley has buy ratings from 71 percent, compared with a range
of 25 percent to 59 percent for other companies in the FTSE
household and homebuilder index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  