-- Big Four Auditors Welcome China’s Rule to Localize Firms
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-11T09:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/big-four-auditors-welcome-china-s-rule-to-localize-firms.html
Three of the biggest global auditing
firms said a new directive from  China  to put locally licensed
accountants in charge of operations fits with their strategies
as the country shifts to an international business model.  Chief partners in the world’s second-largest economy must
within three years be locally certified Chinese citizens, a
requirement that none of the so-called Big Four auditors meets,
the  Ministry of Finance  said yesterday. Affiliates of  Ernst &
Young Global Ltd. , KPMG International Cooperative and PwC
International Ltd. said they support the move.  The firms, which operate as joint ventures, must
restructure to comply with international practice, the ministry
said. China is moving to adopt global standards after dozens of
companies disclosed auditor resignations or accounting
irregularities last year, leading to the suspension or delisting
of their shares.  “This is not protectionism, it’s to encourage local
partners to grow faster,” said  James Lee , regional director for
greater China of the Institute of Chartered Accountants. “In
other countries, this is normal.”  The four firms, with 25 subsidiaries in China, had 9.5
billion  yuan  ($1.5 billion) of revenue in 2010, representing 26
percent of the industry’s total, according to the Ministry of
Finance.  SEC Suit  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the auditor
watchdog group it supervises have met repeatedly with Chinese
counterparts to discuss lifting barriers for inspectors to
review auditors of U.S.-listed companies in China.  The SEC on May 9 sued Shanghai-based Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. for the second time in a year, alleging that
the firm refused to provide documents related to a China-based
company under investigation for potential accounting fraud
against U.S. investors.  The agency issued an administrative subpoena to the firm in
May 2011 seeking information related to an investigation of
Chinese company Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd.  Deloitte has said that under Chinese rules, accounting
firms in the country aren’t allowed to hand documents to any
foreign regulator without government approval, according to
Bloomberg BNA Law Reports.  ‘Respond Positively’  “We will respond positively to the program by ensuring a
smooth and successful transformation of the firm from the
existing joint venture structure,” KPMG’s Chinese affiliate
said in a statement, adding it “welcomes” the directive. Ernst
& Young said the new rules are “in line with” its strategy and
 PwC China  said it has been “actively localizing its China
practice.”  Colleen Brennan , a spokeswoman for the U.S. Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board that oversees auditors, had no
immediate comment. Representatives of  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
Ltd. , the remaining member of the Big Four, didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Currently, about half of the partners at Big Four firms are
non-China-certified accountants, with most of them Hong Kong
citizens, the ministry said.  When converting into a partnership, a firm must have at
least 25 partners and more than 100 China-certified accountants
as well as 10 million yuan of registered capital, the ministry
said. Non-China-certified partners should represent no more than
40 percent of the total, and the percentage should be further
lowered to no more than 20 percent in five years.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  