-- Japan Pledges Liquidity in Case of Global Emergency Arising
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-05-11T09:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/boj-pledges-readiness-to-provide-foreign-currency-in-emergencies.html
Japan ’s central bank pledged to
deploy its foreign-exchange assets as part of any international
emergency response to turmoil in financial markets.  “Time may be necessary before international organizations
and other relevant institutions are able to take necessary
measures,” the  Bank of Japan  said in a statement in  Tokyo  today.
The bank “would be prepared to provide foreign currency until
international support is provided,” it said.  The bank revised its guidelines for reserve management to
take account of “recent changes in international financial and
capital market conditions.” In 2008, the BOJ participated in
Federal Reserve swap lines designed to address a surge in demand
for dollars in the aftermath Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
collapse. Today, investors are monitoring for any signs of a
Greek exit from the euro region that would roil markets anew.  “Whatever their intentions, today’s decision is likely to
promote a risk-off mode among investors especially when there
seems to be no real improvement in  Greece ,” said Masaaki Kanno,
chief Japan economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in Tokyo and a
former chief foreign-exchange dealer at the BOJ.  Yields on benchmark 30-year German  government bonds  fell to
a record low of 2.201 percent as European trading began today,
with investors piling into the securities of Europe’s largest
economy as a haven. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks fell 1
percent, with the weekly drop the largest since November.  Reserves Size  Today’s guidelines apply to the BOJ’s foreign-currency
assets, which totaled 5.05 trillion yen ($63 billion) as of the
end of April, the central bank’s data show. The bulk of Japan’s
$1.2 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves -- the world’s
second-largest, after  China ’s -- are overseen by the Ministry of
Finance, which hasn’t announced any change.  The central bank said that it’s prepared to provide
emergency liquidity to Japanese financial institutions, while
saying they “do not face any problems with their foreign
currency funding” at the moment.  Europe ’s crisis intensified this week, with Greece
struggling to form a government after an election, and  Spain 
taking control of its fourth-biggest bank.  Seeking Safety  Japan’s central bank will seek safer and more liquid
currency assets because of increased volatility in financial
markets, it also said today. The BOJ’s reserves will be made up
of foreign government debt maturing in up to five years and
deposits with central banks and other institutions abroad. BOJ
data as of September showed more than 90 percent of its holdings
were in bonds.  “There have been situations where the market liquidity of
assets once considered as relatively safe has deteriorated,
accompanied by, in some cases, increased credit risk,” the
central bank said. There has been “a growing tendency for a
financial shock in one corner of the world to spill over into
other markets, and the speed of such spillovers has
accelerated,” it said.  Today’s statement follows a push by some politicians for
the central bank to seek greater returns on its holdings.
Lawmakers from Japan’s upper house in July agreed to encourage
the BOJ to reconsider its management of foreign assets after
payments to the national treasury in the previous fiscal year
were less than anticipated, hurt by a surging yen.  Euro Concern  The 17-nation euro area is on the verge of losing one of
its members, with more than 50 percent of investors predicting
an exit this year, according to a Bloomberg Global Poll
published this week. As Greece faces political paralysis and
voters balk at austerity, 57 percent of 1,253 investors,
analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers said at least
one country will abandon the euro by year-end.  Global organizations such as the  International Monetary
Fund  can take weeks or months to decide on rescue measures as
discussions are held on the conditions attached to the packages
and approvals are obtained from member nations.  “The BOJ is showing it has a contingency plan in case the
Greece situation gets much worse rapidly,” said Atsushi Ito, a
senior rate strategist in Tokyo at UBS AG. “I don’t think this
will have a big impact on the market,” he said, as the central
bank’s holdings aren’t large enough.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  