-- Books-A-Million's Directors Sued Over Chairman's Buyout
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-05-11T20:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/books-a-million-s-board-sued-over-controlling-investor-buyout.html
Books-A-Million Inc. (BAMM) ’s directors were
sued by an investor claiming the board wrongfully approved a
$48.8 million buyout of the bookstore chain by its controlling
shareholders.  Directors of Birmingham, Alabama-based Books-A-Million
should be held liable for approving Chairman Clyde Anderson’s
offer to pay $3.05 a share in cash to take the chain private,
investor Jeffrey Ye said in a  Delaware Chancery Court  lawsuit.
Anderson and his family already own about 53 percent of the
company.  “The Anderson family is attempting to buy out the public
stockholders at an unfair price, dramatically below the
underlying real value of the company, in a transaction that is
unfair,” Ye said in the suit, filed May 8 in Wilmington.  The offer comes after Books-A-Million officials started an
expansion plan last year by taking over 14 stores formerly
operated by the bankrupt Borders Group Inc. The stores are in
 Connecticut , Iowa, Maine, Maryland,  Michigan , New Hampshire,  New
Jersey ,  Pennsylvania  and Wisconsin.  Borders, once the second-largest U.S. bookseller, is
liquidating in  bankruptcy court  after failing to find a buyer.
 Ann Arbor , Michigan-based Borders lost business as customers
switched to e-readers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle,
introduced in 2007.  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  is the largest U.S.
bookseller, with 1,341 stores.  Jane Hoerner, a Books-A-Million spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on the suit.  Special Committee  Books-A-Million officials said in a release this week that
directors had set up a special two-member committee to evaluate
the offer by Anderson and his family.  That committee includes J. Barry Mason, the former dean of
the University of Alabama’s business school, and Albert C. Johnson, a retired accountant and the former head of finance at
Dunn Investment Co. Both are current board members.  Ye said Anderson and his family dominate the board and will
control the special committee.  “The independence of any purported Special Committee must
be viewed with a great deal of skepticism,” Ye said in his
complaint.  Ye filed a so-called derivative lawsuit, which would return
any recovery from insurance covering Books-A-Million officers
and directors to the company’s coffers.  Another Lawsuit  Another Books-A-Million investor, Victor Collins, filed a
separate suit against the company over the buyout today seeking
damages. Collins is seeking class-action status for his lawsuit
on behalf of other shareholders. Both lawsuits seek to block the
buyout from proceeding.  Books-A-Million, which also runs stores under the names
Books & Co., Bookland and Joe Muggs Newsstands, operates in the
southeastern U.S.  The Ye case is Ye v. Anderson, 7504; the Collins case is
Victor Collins v. Clyde B. Anderson, 7518, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  