-- Bovespa Snaps Three-Day Drop on Brazil Rate Outlook, U.S. Data
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-05-11T16:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/bovespa-snaps-three-day-drop-on-brazil-rate-outlook-u-s-data.html
The Bovespa index rose for the first
time in four days on speculation  Brazil ’s central bank will cut
the target lending rate further to bolster growth and as an
increase in U.S.  consumer confidence  spurred optimism about the
outlook for the world’s largest economy.  Homebuilder Cyrela Brazil Realty SA was the best performer
on the MSCI Brazil/Consumer Discretionary Index, which rose the
most among 10 industry groups.  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the operator of
 Latin America ’s largest securities exchange, jumped after saying
profit in the first quarter increased on higher trading volumes.  In the U.S., the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment climbed to 77.8, the
highest since January 2008. Yields on most interest-rate futures
contracts in Brazil fell after central bank President Alexandre Tombini said a boost in inflation won’t last.  “The consumer confidence number in the U.S. was the first
positive piece of news in a while, and helped markets to
recover,” Marcio Cardoso, a partner at Titulo Corretora de
Valores, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “Tombini’s remarks
yesterday were taken by investors as a sign that  interest rates 
may fall more than expected. If the external outlook doesn’t get
in the way, we may see Brazil growing a bit faster in the second
half of the year.”  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge gained 0.5 percent to
60,029.69 at 1:40 p.m. in  Sao Paulo . Forty-three stocks gained
on the gauge, while 23 fell. Yields on the Brazilian interest-
rate futures contract due in January 2014 fell six basis points,
or 0.06 percentage point, to 8.4 percent.  Inflation Outlook  Consumer price increases in Brazil will ease in the next
three months and remain below the 0.64 percent rise posted in
April, which was more than the policy makers expected, Tombini
told reporters in Rio de Janeiro yesterday.  Cyrela advanced 2.9 percent to 15.01 reais.  BM&FBovespa rose 1.5 percent to 10.28 reais as adjusted net
income increased to 409.2 million reais ($210.8 million) in the
first quarter, from 384.2 million reais a year earlier.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  has gained 5.7 percent in 2012, buoyed by local
interest-rate cuts, signs of expansion in the U.S. and optimism
that  Europe  may be closer to resolving its sovereign-debt
crisis. The measure has fallen 12 percent since this year’s high
on March 13 on rekindled concern about Europe and on speculation
the slowdown in  China , Brazil’s biggest trading partner, may be
deeper than expected.  The measure trades at 9.9 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, in line with the 10.2 ratio for MSCI Inc.’s measure
of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Trading volume was 5.9 billion reais in stocks in Sao
Paulo yesterday, according to data from the exchange. That
compares with a daily average of 7.2 billion reais this year
through May 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  