-- Brazil Revamps Biodiesel Auctions After Regulatory Probe
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-05-11T19:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/brazil-revamps-biodiesel-auctions-after-regulatory-probe.html
Brazil  revised the way biodiesel is
sold in the country after regulators found indications that
producers colluded to keep prices high.  Fuel distributors will now negotiate contracts directly
with producers in government-organized auctions, Marco Antonio
Martins Almeida, secretary of petroleum, natural gas and
biofuels at the Ministry of Mines and Energy said today at an
event in Brasilia.  Under the previous auction system, contracts to supply
biodiesel were signed with state-controlled oil producer
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , known as Petrobras, which then sold it
to distributors, who are required to use 5 percent biodiesel in
the  diesel fuel  they sell.  “The new auction model is less susceptible to an agreement
on prices,” Almeida said. The system will “avoid new
complaints from happening.”  Comanche Clean Energy Corp., a biodiesel producer,
complained to fuel regulator Agencia Nacional do Petroleo, Gas
Natural e Biocombustiveis on Nov. 28 that participants colluded
on prices in an auction earlier that month.  The regulator conducted an investigation following the
complaint and found evidence of price-setting, the agency said
in a May 7 e-mail. It has notified the federal police, ANP said.  Under the new system, biodiesel producers will be able to
furnish distributors with three offers during auctions, Almeida
said. While Petrobras will still buy and resell the biodiesel,
the Rio de Janeiro-based company will only act as an
“intermediary,” he said.  Comanche, based in  Sao Paulo , didn’t immediately reply to a
telephone call from Bloomberg News seeking comment.  Changes Sought  The previous system didn’t differentiate producers on the
basis of the quality of their product, Erasmo Carlos
Battistella, president of the biofuel trade group Associacao dos
Produtores de Biodiesel do Brasil, said today in a telephone
interview. Distributors may “select who they buy fuel from
taking into account who’s efficient and who’s reliable.”  Abrobio, as the association is called, has been pushing for
these changes for more than a year, he said.  The next auction is scheduled for June, the Ministry of
Mines and Energy said today on its website.  The new model may lead to a decline in biodiesel prices
over time, Almeida said. It will result in a “lower level of
government interference and a greater level of participation of
market players.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  