-- Brazil’s Coffee Growers Have Harvested 25% of the Robusta Crop
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-11T08:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/brazil-s-coffee-growers-have-harvested-25-of-the-robusta-crop.html
Coffee growers in  Brazil , the world’s
largest producer, have harvested almost 25 percent of this
year’s robusta crop, according to broker Flavour Coffee.  The country, which is the biggest grower of the arabica
variety and ranks second in robusta production, will harvest
50.4 million bags of coffee in the 2012-13 season, the Ministry
of Agriculture’s crop-forecasting agency, known as Conab, said
yesterday by e-mail. Arabica output will total 38.1 million bags
and robusta 12.3 million bags, it said. A bag weighs 60
kilograms (132 pounds).  “New crop arrivals keep improving,” the Rio de Janeiro-
based broker said in a report e-mailed yesterday, adding that
less than 15 percent of the robusta harvest was available
because drying and peeling processes were not done yet.  Arabica coffee is grown mainly in  Latin America  and favored
for specialty drinks such as those made by  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
Robusta beans are harvested mainly in  Asia  and parts of Africa
and are used in instant drinks and espresso.  Buyers of conilons, as Brazilian robusta beans are known,
are paying a premium of 4 cents a pound ($88 a metric ton) to
the price on the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London  to obtain coffee
for shipments in May, June and July, according to the broker.
That is unchanged from last week.  “Prices remain firm despite the increasing
availabilities,” Flavour Coffee said. “Demand is getting close
to the level of the offers.”  The weather will remain dry today in Brazil’s coffee
growing areas, the broker said. A cold front will bring rains
over the weekend and in the beginning of next week though
temperatures will be “far” from freezing.  Robusta coffee for July delivery slid 0.1 percent to $2,097
a ton by 9:39 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in London. Arabica coffee for
July delivery fell 1.1 percent to $1.7665 a pound in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 