-- British Airways Owner Posts Wider Loss on Fuel, Iberia Unit
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-05-11T09:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/british-airways-owner-iag-has-eu249-million-loss-on-fuel-iberia.html
British Airways parent  International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  said its first-quarter loss
widened as fuel costs crimped margins, European economies slowed
and pilots at its Spanish Iberia unit staged strikes.  IAG’s operating loss was 249 million euros ($321 million),
compared with a 102 million-euro shortfall a year earlier, the
London-based company said today. Analysts had expected a loss of
240 million euros, on average, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Airline-industry profit will probably drop 62 percent to $3
billion this year, the  International Air Transport Association 
reckons. BA suffered a 62 million-pound ($100 million) quarterly
loss and Iberia had a 170 million-euro deficit, including 25
million euros of costs from a pilot strike over reduced pay in
 Europe . IAG said it will do little better than break even in
2012 after the expense of buying  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  unit BMI.  “Fuel is the issue, and there’s still a divergence between
BA and Iberia,” said Douglas McNeil, an analyst at Charles
Stanley in London with a “buy” rating on IAG stock. “Iberia
faces a lot of challenges and is posting disappointing results,
though there’s a plan in place for quite a bold restructuring.”  Shares Slip  Europe’s third-biggest airline, formed from the merger of
British Airways and Iberia in January 2011,  traded  0.6 percent
higher at 9:58 a.m. in London after earlier falling 2.8 percent.  IAG has gained 11 percent this year for a value of 3.04
billion pounds. Regional No. 1  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  has dropped
8 percent and Lufthansa, ranked second, is down 0.2 percent.  While sales at IAG rose 7.8 percent in the three months to
3.92 billion euros, fuel costs surged 25 percent to 1.41 billion
euros. Passenger traffic advanced 3.6 percent as capacity was
increased by 0.6 percent, pushing the  load factor , a measure of
seat occupancy, up 2.2 percentage points to 76.1 percent.  Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  said on a conference
call today that there’s no evidence of the U.K. recession
hurting BA’s most lucrative long-haul routes out of  London
Heathrow , Europe’s busiest air hub, and that the unit’s business
is generally performing well before the impact of fuel prices.  At Iberia, Walsh is seeking a return to profit through the
transfer of domestic and short-haul flights to the new Iberia
Express unit, which aims to reduce the break-even point by
offering less-generous contracts.  Route Rollout  “Iberia’s performance reflects the weakness of the Spanish
domestic market and industrial action by pilots opposed to
actions to improve the airline’s efficiencies,” the CEO said.  British Airways aims to add more longer-distance routes
following the purchase of BMI, completed last month, which
boosts its holding of scarce operating slots at Heathrow.  IAG yesterday announced the sale of BMI’s Regional arm to
U.K. bidders for 8 million pounds and Walsh said efforts to
offload discount unit BMIbaby are continuing, though some routes
from Birmingham, East Midlands and Belfast City airports will
close in June ahead of a possible shutdown in September.  “We’re continuing to try,” he said. “We have had some
parties that have expressed an interest. But Lufthansa had been
trying to sell it for some considerable time.”  Walsh said today that British Airways will also use the new
takeoff and landing positions at Heathrow to open routes from
Leeds-Bradford airport in northern  England , Rotterdam in the
Netherlands and Zagreb in  Croatia , and is amenable to links with
more U.K. and European airports provided they help feed its hub.  “The focus will be on long-haul expansion and markets in
 Asia  and  Latin America , but to ensure the routes are sustainable
we need effective feed from our short-haul network,” he said.  Buying BMI will dilute  operating profit  by 240 million
euros over 12 months, IAG said, including one-off restructuring
costs to be booked this year of approximately 90 million euros.  Costs from BMI are including in IAG’s full-year earnings
projection. Analysts had previously expected an operating profit
of 234 million euros for the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in  London  at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  