-- Brooks Discussed Hacking Cases With Cameron in 2010
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-05-11T17:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/brooks-discussed-hacking-cases-with-cameron-in-2010.html
Rebekah Brooks, who led  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
U.K. unit until last year, said she discussed the company’s
phone-hacking cases and its bid for  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc (BSY)  with Prime Minister  David Cameron  before resigning.  Brooks, 43, gave details to a media-ethics inquiry today of
dozens of informal meetings, dinners, lunches and birthday
parties with Britain’s political elite when she edited News
Corp.’s best-selling Sun tabloid starting in 2003, and later as
the unit’s chief executive officer. She was arrested in a phone-
hacking probe in July, two days after she stepped down.  The inquiry, led by Judge Brian Leveson, is scrutinizing
News Corp.’s ties to government after the company’s critics
argued an often cozy link prevented the extent of the phone-
hacking scandal from being uncovered sooner. Cameron called for
the inquiry after revelations that hacking at another News Corp.
tabloid, the News of the World, was far more widespread than the
single “rogue” reporter jailed in 2007.  “If a politician or a prime minister ever put a friendship
with an executive of a media company in front of his or her
ability to do their professional duties properly, then that is
their failing,” Brooks said in London. “If a journalist ever
compromised their role as a journalist through friendship, then
that is their failing.”  BSkyB Bid  Discussion of News Corp.’s proposed bid for the 61 percent
of BSkyB it didn’t already own was “entirely appropriate” and
came up in casual conversations, Brooks said. Cameron was
“even-handed” about the bid, and neither he nor Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne , with whom she also discussed the
proposal, ever explicitly backed it, she said.  Testimony by News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch and his son
James, the former head of U.K. operations, last month led to
calls for the resignation of Cameron’s culture secretary,  Jeremy Hunt . An aide to Hunt stepped down after e-mails were released
at the inquiry showing inside information about the politician’s
views was given to News Corp. during the bid’s approval process.  The proposal has been discussed regularly at the ethics
inquiry because Cameron’s government had to approve the deal.
Rupert Murdoch abandoned the bid in July as a result of the
phone-hacking scandal.  Fred Michel, the News Corp. lobbyist who communicated with
Hunt’s aide, said in an e-mail to Brooks disclosed at the
inquiry today that Hunt asked Michel for the company’s view on
the phone-hacking scandal just weeks before the company was
forced to shut its News of the World tabloid in July. Hunt
sought News Corp.’s assistance to develop a position on the
issue based on his belief that the police are “pursuing things
thoroughly,” Michel said.  Civil Lawsuits  Hunt said today that Michel has misrepresented
conversations with his aide as being directly with him. The
culture secretary will address the Leveson inquiry at a later
date.  As civil lawsuits by phone-hacking victims mounted in late
2010, and the company was accused of a cover-up, Brooks
discussed the situation with Cameron, who became prime minister
in May of that year. Phone hacking had “been on the news that
day and I explained the story behind the news,” she said.  Brooks said she exchanged  text messages  with Cameron about
once a week, increasing to about twice a week during the 2010
general election. Cameron signed off his texts with “LOL, for
lots of love,” Brooks said. He stopped doing so after she told
him it meant “laugh out loud,” she said.  Cameron and other high-ranking U.K. politicians sent Brooks
“indirect messages” offering her support when she resigned
from the company in July 2011, she said.  ‘Sorry’  One of Cameron’s messages said, “Sorry I couldn’t have
been as loyal to you as I have been, but  Ed Miliband  had me on
the run,” Robert Jay, the inquiry’s lawyer, said today,
referring to the leader of the opposition  Labour Party . Brooks
agreed that was the “gist” of the message.  Brooks and Cameron met occasionally in the English
countryside, where she went on the weekends and he visited his
constituents, she said. She also said she attended his private
birthday party in 2010.  Rupert Murdoch ’s close relationship with Brooks wasn’t a
motive for prime ministers seeking her friendship, she said. “I
don’t think people ever thought if they wanted to get to Mr.
Murdoch they had to get through me,” Brooks said.  Brooks “sometimes” sent cases of wine to the Metropolitan
Police’s pedophile unit to thank them for their work, and took
senior politicians and police to “good restaurants that were
appropriate to their seniority,” she said in a witness
statement posted on the inquiry’s website.  Police Bribery Probe  The police probe into phone hacking expanded to include
allegations of widespread bribery of police and other public
officials by News Corp. journalists. At least a dozen
journalists from the Sun were detained in that probe.  Brooks occasionally grew impatient with questions today
about whether she went swimming with Rupert Murdoch or what
gifts she received at parties and at one point replied, “we’re
not on the floor of a tabloid newsroom.”  Brooks said she also received messages of support from
former Prime Minister  Tony Blair , and that he once attended a
surprise birthday party for her. She said she thought she had
three private dinners with Blair toward the end of his time in
office.  The inquiry, now in its third phase, largely avoided
questions about voice-mail interceptions because Brooks faces
potential criminal charges.  Yacht Trip  Rupert and  James Murdoch  testified at the inquiry last
month. The elder Murdoch said Cameron, when he was the
opposition leader, flew on Rupert’s son-in-law’s plane and
stopped off in Santorini,  Greece , to meet with him on a yacht.
Brooks said today that she was there, too.  “Politicians did want to get access to the editor of the
Sun and his or her team as much as possible, but I don’t think
people ever thought if they wanted to get to Mr. Murdoch they
had to get through me,” Brooks said.  Brooks, arrested last year in the probes into phone hacking
and bribery by News Corp.’s journalists in Britain, was arrested
a second time in March with her husband Charlie on suspicion of
conspiring to pervert the course of justice. About 45 other
people have been arrested in the investigations, including
Brooks’s longtime personal assistant.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  