-- Canadian Dollar Gains Most in Three Weeks After Payrolls Climb
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-05-11T21:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/canadian-dollar-gains-after-employment-rises-more-than-forecast.html
Canada ’s dollar gained the most in
three weeks versus its U.S. counterpart after employment climbed
in April almost six times faster than economists forecast,
buoying the case for the central bank to raise  interest rates .  The currency reversed an earlier decline that took it to
almost a three-month low and pared a loss for the week. It rose
against all of its 16 most-traded peers tracked by Bloomberg
after  Statistics Canada  said payrolls grew over the past two
months by the most in 30 years.  “This really removes the pressure on the Canadian
dollar,” Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange in
Toronto at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit, said in
a telephone interview. “The market was very poorly positioned.
The shockingly strong number has really whipped the market the
other way.”  Canada’s dollar, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.2 percent to
C$1.0005 cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It
strengthened as much as 0.7 percent, the biggest intraday jump
since April 17, after weakening earlier as much as 0.3 percent
to C$1.0054. The loonie lost 0.5 percent on the week. One
Canadian dollar purchases 99.95 U.S. cents.  The currency has traded within a three-cent range versus
the greenback since the end of January, siding to C$1.0063 on
May 9 and strengthening to 98 cents on April 27.  Reversed Losses  The Canadian dollar pared gains after  Evangelos Venizelos ,
leader of  Greece ’s Pasok party, failed to form a unity
government and will hand back the three-day mandate to President
Karolos Papoulias tomorrow. Greek political leaders negotiated
for a fifth day on forming a new government after voters in
weekend elections revolted against austerity measures, fueling
bets  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  The loonie weakened earlier today as stocks and commodities
fell after JPMorgan Chase & Co. reported a $2 billion trading
loss and  China ’s industrial output unexpectedly slowed last
month, increasing the least since 2009.  The currency reversed losses after Statistics Canada
reported that  employment  rose by 58,200 jobs following a March
jump of 82,300 that was the biggest since September 2008. The
 labor force  grew by 72,500, lifting the  unemployment rate  to 7.3
percent from 7.2 percent.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had projected a gain
of 10,000 jobs and a 7.3 percent jobless rate, according to the
median forecasts.  “This is probably going to get the market thinking about
Bank of Canada rate-hiking coming through sooner rather than
later,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank.  Rate Bets  Investors increased bets after the jobs report that the
central bank will raise its  benchmark interest rate  from 1
percent later this year. Trading in overnight index swaps showed
about a 42 percent chance the rate will be boosted to 1.25
percent after the bank’s Sept. 5 meeting, up from 36 percent
yesterday. Today’s data also show about a 45 percent chance the
rate will be unchanged in September.  The likelihood the BOC will increase  borrowing costs  by
September dropped after a report last week showed employers in
the U.S., the nation’s biggest trade partner, added the fewest
workers in six months during April. Chances had surged earlier
after policy makers on April 17 suggested rates would go up
sooner than economists expected as slack in the economy
evaporated. Odds of a rise were 75 percent on April 27,
according to Bloomberg calculations on overnight index swaps.  The  Bank of Canada  has kept its overnight  lending rate 
target unchanged since September 2010.  Bonds Fall  Government bonds  due in less than seven years fell today,
pushing yields on  two-year securities  up six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 1.3 percent. Yields on 10-year notes
decreased two basis points to 1.97 percent after rising three
basis points earlier to 2.02 percent.  The loonie gained even as crude oil, Canada’s biggest
export, traded at almost the lowest level this year. June
futures dropped 1.5 percent to $95.61 a barrel in  New York  after
touching $95.17 on May 9, the weakest since December. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up as much as 0.6 percent and
fell as much as 0.7 percent.  The Canadian dollar rose 1.5 percent over the past month
versus nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  advanced 1.2
percent, while the euro fell 0.5 percent.  “I think the Canadian dollar will be quite comfortable
trading close to parity, with the possibility of taking out the
99.20 level,” BMO’s Jespersen said.  Wagers on Loonie  Futures traders decreased wagers the Canadian dollar will
gain against the U.S. currency.  Net long  positions, or bets the
currency will strengthen, declined to 60,095 contracts in the
week ended May 8, after reaching 70,223 the previous week, the
highest since March 2011, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data showed.  Canada’s currency is poised to rally against the greenback
after failing to depreciate through a pivotal price level,
according to JPMorgan.  The loonie’s inability to close weaker than C$1.0055 per
dollar twice this week, after reaching C$1.0063 on an intraday
basis on May 9, signals it will strengthen,  Niall O’Connor , a
technical analyst at the firm, wrote in a client note.  “Canada has held important levels for the second time this
week, suggesting that a deeper pullback in the move is ready to
develop,” New York-based O’Connor said in a telephone
interview. “Canada is exhibiting bullish economic fundamentals
relative to the U.S. and commodity currencies that are giving it
safe-haven status.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 