-- Central Bankers Discuss Plans to Limit Greek Exit Fallout
-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-05-11T16:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/central-bankers-discuss-plans-to-limit-greek-euro-exit-fallout.html
Central bankers across  Europe  have
started discussing the possibility of a Greek exit from the euro
area and how to handle the fallout, Swedish Riksbank Deputy
Governor Per Jansson said.  “I would be very careful in speculating that it would be a
painless process without complications,” Jansson said in an
interview in Stockholm today. “Of course at meetings abroad
that we are at, the question is discussed. I hope and believe
that they will stay in the  euro zone .”  Planning for a Greek exit is intensifying after May 6
elections saw anti-bailout parties surge in popularity and left
the country in political stalemate. European Central Bank
officials decided earlier this year to deal with any Greek exit
on an ad-hoc basis rather than devising a templated set of
responses because the fallout would be so unpredictable, said
three euro region central bank officials. That may change as the
Greek crisis worsens, the officials said.  The Frankfurt-based central bank continues to assume  Greece 
will stay within the euro, a spokesperson said today on
condition of anonymity, in line with ECB policy.  ECB Executive Board member  Joerg Asmussen  nevertheless
questioned that assumption this week when he warned that it must
comply with bailout deals “if it wants to remain a member of
the euro zone.”  Currency Swaps  Policy makers outside Europe are also bracing for new
turmoil.  Philippines  central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said
today he’s ready to use the necessary tools to fight any bout of
contagion unleashed by a worsening euro crisis.  “The possible impact on emerging-market economies, like
the Philippines, of talk of the Greek exit continues to be
volatility in capital flows that translate into volatility in
financial prices,” Tetangco said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “We will therefore continue to monitor market
behavior and will be ready to use tools in our enhanced tool kit
as appropriate.”  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  pledged today to deploy its foreign-
exchange assets as part of any international emergency response
to turmoil in markets without linking the statement to Greece.
The  Reserve Bank  of  India  yesterday ordered exporters to convert
half their foreign-currency earnings into rupees to prevent
further decline in the exchange rate.  Swap Lines  If Greece did leave the euro, central banks could open
currency swap lines to avoid funding problems in major exchange
rates, Bank of America Merrill Lynch economists led by  Laurence Boone  said in a report dated yesterday. There would be a high
chance the ECB would cut its  key interest rate  to 0.5 percent
from 1 percent, buy Spanish and Italian debt in unlimited
amounts and offer banks more long-term cash, they said.  A post-election poll of 1,253 Bloomberg subscribers found
57 percent expect at least one country to leave the euro area
this year, the most since the survey began in 2010 and up from
11 percent in January 2011.  “Speaking for myself, it’s so difficult to see what a
Greek exit would mean,” Jansson said. “It would mean both an
enormous political pressure on the European cooperation and also
large economic risks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim McLaughlin in  Stockholm  at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net 
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  