-- Chesapeake May Delay $14 Billion Asset Sales on Loans
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-05-11T23:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/chesapeake-may-delay-14-billion-asset-sales-on-loans.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  reached a $3
billion loan agreement with a unit of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and affiliates of  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  to help ease a cash
shortfall that threatens to curtail its development of oil and
natural-gas wells.  Chesapeake will repay the short-term loan with part of the
proceeds from as much as $11.5 billion in asset sales it plans
for the remainder of the year, the company said in a statement
late today.  Chesapeake, based in Oklahoma City, is trying to sell its
oil fields in the Permian Basin in west Texas and  New Mexico ,
and find a joint-venture partner to help fund drilling in a
formation known as the Mississippi Lime in Oklahoma and  Kansas 
by the end of 2012.  The company said it had received “strong interest” in the
assets and joint venture and expects to complete the
transactions in the third quarter.  “This short-term loan from Goldman and Jefferies provides
us with significant additional financial flexibility as we
execute our asset sales during the remainder of 2012,”  Aubrey K. McClendon, chairman and chief executive officer, said in the
statement.  The company also said in a filing earlier today that it may
have to delay some of the asset sales planned for this year
because the transactions could hurt its ability to comply with
other loan agreements.  Unexpected $71 Million Loss  The company, which pumps more U.S. gas than any company
except  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , posted an unexpected $71 million
first-quarter loss on May 1, said it may run out of money next
year and increased planned asset sales through the end of 2013
by 17 percent to $20.5 billion.  Chesapeake  fell 14 percent  to $14.81 at the close in New
York today, the lowest price since March 2009. Shares rose 4.9
percent to $15.53 at 7:47 p.m. New York time. Chesapeake has
fallen 26 percent in the past four weeks amid concern that
private loans McClendon obtained using personal stakes in
company wells conflict with his professional duties.  The board said May 1 that it will strip McClendon of the
chairman’s post and is conducting an internal review of the
CEO’s personal financial transactions. The SEC opened an
informal inquiry earlier this month, the company has said.  The $3 billion loan from Jefferies affiliates and Goldman
Sachs Bank USA matures on Dec. 2, 2017 and has an initial
variable annual interest rate of 8.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  