-- Chesapeake May Delay Asset Sales on Loan Agreements
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-05-12T01:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/chesapeake-may-delay-asset-sales-to-maintain-compliance-on-loan.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  may delay
billions of dollars in asset sales this year because the
transactions could hurt its ability to comply with loan
agreements.  Chesapeake Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  plans
to plug a funding gap that  Fitch Ratings  estimated may reach $10
billion this year by selling oilfields and future production
from some wells, and negotiating joint-venture agreements. The
company will borrow $3 billion from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Jefferies Group Inc. to tide it over until the sales are
completed, according to an e-mailed statement yesterday.  A 40 percent drop in U.S. natural-gas prices in the past
year because of a supply glut prompted Chesapeake and other
explorers to curb gas drilling and focus on higher-profit oil
production. With more than three-quarters of its output still
comprised of gas, Chesapeake’s ability to comply with the
covenants of its $4 billion revolving bank credit facility may
be reduced if the company sells too many assets, according to a
regulatory filing yesterday.  “While asset monetizations enhance our liquidity, sales of
producing natural gas and oil properties adversely affect the
amount of  cash flow  we generate and reduce the amount and value
of collateral available to secure our obligations, both of which
are exacerbated by low natural gas prices,” the Oklahoma City-
based company said in the filing.  Plans Not Changed  The company has no plans to change its “asset-monetization
goals,” Michael Kehs, Chesapeake’s vice president for strategic
planning, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Chesapeake  fell 14 percent  to $14.81 yesterday in New York
to the lowest since March 2009. Chesapeake shares have fallen 26
percent in the past four weeks amid concern that private loans
McClendon obtained using personal stakes in company wells
conflict with his professional duties.  Chesapeake’s 6.775 percent notes maturing in March 2019
fell 5.5 cents on the dollar to 93 cents yesterday, lifting the
yield to 8.125 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Credit-default swaps on Chesapeake climbed 3.35 percentage
points to 9.25 percent upfront yesterday, according to CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. The cost of the company’s
contracts means buyers of protection would pay $925,000
initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million of debt
from default for five years.  SEC Inquiry  The board said May 1 that it will strip McClendon of the
chairman’s post and is conducting an internal review of his
personal transactions. The SEC opened an informal inquiry
earlier this month, the company has said.  Chesapeake said yesterday that it will repay the $3 billion
short-term loan from Goldman and Jefferies with proceeds from as
much as $11.5 billion in asset sales it plans for the remainder
of this year.  The company said it had received “strong interest” in its
Permian Basin assets in  Texas  and  New Mexico , and from potential
partners in a joint-venture for its Mississippi Lime project in
Oklahoma and  Kansas . Chesapeake expects to complete those
transactions in the third quarter.  “This short-term loan from Goldman and Jefferies provides
us with significant additional financial flexibility as we
execute our asset sales during the remainder of 2012,”
McClendon said in yesterday’s statement.  The $3 billion loan from Jefferies affiliates and Goldman
Sachs Bank USA matures on Dec. 2, 2017 and has an initial
variable annual interest rate of 8.5 percent.  Drilling Carry  Chesapeake has already burned through more than three-
fourths of joint-venture proceeds amassed since July 2008 to
defray drilling costs, according to yesterday’s filing. The
company spent 79 percent of the $9.04 billion of so-called
drilling carry, or development expenses paid by partners, in its
seven joint-venture agreements, according to the filing.  About $1.37 billion, or 97 percent, remains in  Total SA (FP) ’s
commitment to pay Chesapeake’s drilling costs in  Ohio ’s Utica
Shale, according to the filing.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,  China ’s largest
offshore energy producer, has $544 million, or 78 percent, left
to pay on its commitment in the Niobrara Shale in the Rockies
region. Money supplied by partners in the other five deals has
been exhausted, according to the filing.  Chesapeake, co-founded by McClendon in 1989, has outspent
cash flow in 19 of the past 21 years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The company, which pumps more U.S. gas than any company
except  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , posted an unexpected $71 million
first-quarter loss on May 1, warned it may run out of money next
year and increased planned asset sales through the end of 2013
by 17 percent to $20.5 billion.  The company’s 2.03 price-to-cash flow ratio is the lowest
among its peers and less than one-third the average for the
group, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has 16
buy ratings from analysts, 18 holds and three sell
recommendations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  