-- Cheyne Capital Starts Funds for Credit, Real Estate Debt
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-05-11T08:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/cheyne-capital-said-to-start-funds-for-credit-real-estate-debt.html
Cheyne Capital Management (UK) LLP, 
the  money manager  founded by former Morgan Stanley bankers
Jonathan Lourie and Stuart Fiertz in 1999, is raising two funds
that will invest in corporate debt and European real estate-
backed bonds.  The Cheyne Global Credit Fund and the Cheyne European Real
Estate Bond Fund will comply with UCITS rules, meaning
Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable
Securities, according to an e-mailed statement from Cheyne
today. The directive is a regulated European fund format.  The credit fund will focus on corporate debt in  North
America  and  Europe , as the firm “believes credit spreads are
currently pricing in too much downside given the very robust
fundamentals of most corporate balance sheets,” according to
the statement. London-based Cheyne’s corporate credit team
oversees $1.3 billion.  The extra yield investors demand over government debt to
buy non-financial European corporate bonds has risen to 147
basis points from 111 basis points a year ago, according to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Real Estate  Cheyne, which currently manages $1.3 billion of real estate
bonds and loans, is also seeking opportunities as banks retreat
from Europe’s 1.4 trillion-euro ($1.8 trillion) property debt
market, according to the statement.  The two funds will allow investors to redeem investments
weekly. Cheyne said it is starting the funds in response to
demand from investors.  The firm’s other UCITS strategies include the Cheyne
Convertibles Absolute Return Fund, which earned 13.8 percent
since its inception in December 2009.  UCITS funds place restrictions on leverage, offer investors
transparency of holdings similar to that of mutual funds and
allow clients to withdraw money in as little as a day.  Cheyne Capital manages more than $6.3 billion, including
$4.2 billion in  hedge funds , according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  