-- China April Home Sales Fall 16% as Property Curbs Remain
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-11T08:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/china-april-home-sales-fall-16-as-government-maintains-curbs.html
China’s home sales transaction
value fell 16 percent in April from the previous month as the
government reiterated it will keep curbs on the  property
market .  The  value of homes  sold declined to 315.4 billion  yuan 
($50 billion) from 373.3 billion yuan in March and 324.9
billion yuan a year earlier, based on the difference between
the National Statistics Bureau’s data for the first four
months of the year and the first quarter. Housing sales value
from January to April fell 13.5 percent to 1.02 trillion yuan
from a year earlier, according to the data.  “It’s very hard to forecast when sales will fall to the
bottom,” said Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based property analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG. “It may pick up in the coming
months, because developers are cutting prices to boost sales
volume.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has said the government will
“resolutely” maintain its curbs on the property market. The
government has toughened requirements for down payments and
mortgages, and imposed restrictions on the number of homes
each family is allowed to buy.  Mortgage Lending  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. suspended a
15 percent discount on mortgage lending for first-time home
buyers nationwide, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
on May 5. The suspension was made to address tight liquidity
and deposit instability and other Chinese banks may follow
suit, said Sophie Jiang, a Hong Kong-based banking analyst at
Religare Capital Markets, in a May 7 report.  Investments in homes, office buildings, malls and other
real estate gained 18.7 percent to 1.6 trillion yuan from
January through April, slower than the 34 percent gain a year
earlier, according to the statistics bureau. New property
construction declined by 4.2 percent to 544.7 million square
meters (5.9 billion square feet).  Faster-than-expected slowdown of property investments
and construction may lead to slower economic growth in  China ,
Johnson Hu, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at CIMB-GK
Securities Research, said in an e-mailed note to clients
today. The government is under pressure to ease monetary
policies and fine-tune property policies, Hu said.  Construction Slowing  The eastern city of Yangzhou in Jiangsu province will
offer new buyers subsidies of as much as 0.6 percent of the
total value of a home, Xinhua Daily reported on May 8, citing
the local finance bureau.  Developers are starting more projects, though slowing
construction, an indicator of a cash shortage, according to a
biannual construction survey of Credit Suisse Group AG on May
8. About 93 percent of the construction companies experienced
payment delays from property developers, 13 percentage points
higher than half a year ago, it said.  A  gauge  tracking property shares on the Shanghai
Composite Index fell 0.7 percent at the local close, while
the  benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.6 percent.  China Vanke, Poly  Home sales volume dropped 14.9 percent in the first four
months to 190 million square meters, the government data
showed today.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the nation’s biggest developer by
market value, said April sales fell 35 percent from March.
Sales at Poly Real Estate Co., the second biggest, declined
by 6.6 percent to 9.1 billion yuan in March, according to the
company.  More than 60 percent of home buyers and developers said
China’s home prices will not fall to a “reasonable level”
this year, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s
biggest real estate website, which surveyed almost 1,000
buyers and dozens of developers. The report didn’t give exact
numbers of how many people it surveyed.  About 20 protests by homeowners asking developers to cut
prices for new buyers took place in the eastern Chinese city
of Hangzhou, according to a newspaper published by the state-
owned Xinhua News Agency on May 8.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  