-- Chinese Safety Plan for Atomic Projects Delayed, Caixin Says
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-05-11T10:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/chinese-safety-plan-for-atomic-projects-delayed-caixin-says.html
China ’s cabinet is yet to approve a
plan by the Ministry of Environmental Protection to tighten
safety for nuclear plants, a step needed to help expand the
country’s atomic power generation program, Caixin magazine said.  New nuclear projects and those that have started
preliminary construction will remain suspended, according to a
report on Caixin’s website, citing  Zhang Guobao , former head of
the National Energy Administration. Zhang, who spoke at a
conference in Beijing yesterday, didn’t say when the plan was
discussed or when it would be considered again.  Zeng Yachuan, spokesman of the National Energy
Administration, didn’t answer two calls to his office today,
seeking comment on the report.  China suspended new nuclear projects after last year’s
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant and prompted a global review of atomic energy plants. The
State Council said approvals would be withheld until existing
projects and those under construction are inspected and a
stricter safety regime is in place.  The policy has hurt China’s major nuclear power equipment
makers, including  Shanghai Electric Group Co. (2727) ,  Dongfang Electric
Corp. (1072)  and  Harbin Electric Co. (1133) , which have had their long-term
contracts frozen.  The State Council will hold a second round of talks on
nuclear safety and the mid- and long-term atomic power
development plans, Xinhua News Agency said yesterday, citing
Wang Binghua, chairman of the State Nuclear Power Technology
Corp. Xinhua didn’t provide details.  Key Conditions  The new nuclear power safety regulation is ready and a
draft would be submitted to the State Council after minor
adjustments, the environmental protection ministry said in a
statement on its website Dec. 12. The regulation, prepared by
the China Nuclear Safety Administration, a division of the
ministry, outlines rules and goals for nuclear safety by 2020.  Passage of the new safety regulations and the atomic power
development plans are the two key conditions to restart China’s
nuclear projects, Li Yongjiang, vice president of the China
Nuclear Energy Association, said in January.  China, which started its first commercial nuclear plant in
1994, is building at least 27 reactors and has 50 more planned,
according to the association.  The country plans to install 70 gigawatts of nuclear power
by the end of the decade, the National Energy Administration
said last year. The target may be scaled back to between 60
gigawatts and 70 gigawatts, Li told Bloomberg in October.  China will limit the number of reactors to be built on the
coast, the State Oceanic Administration said on April 7 last
year. The country, constructing more reactors than any other
nation, has at least 14 atomic units in operation, according to
data from the  World Nuclear Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  