-- China Swap Set for Biggest Weekly Drop in 5 Months on Inflation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-11T02:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/china-swap-set-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-5-months-on-inflation.html
China ’s one-year interest-rate swap
was set for the biggest weekly decline in five months on
speculation slowing inflation will give the central bank more
room to ease monetary policy.  Consumer prices  rose 3.4 percent in April from a year
earlier after a 3.6 percent gain in March, the National Bureau
of Statistics said today. The People’s Bank of China added 41
billion  yuan  ($6.5 billion) of capital to the financial system
this week, a seventh weekly injection, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The central bank may cut reserve ratios again in the
second quarter,” said Liu Junyu, a Shenzhen-based bond analyst
at China Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-biggest lender.
Inflation will probably ease further from next month due to
consumer-price gains exceeding 6 percent from June through
September last year, he said.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell 17 basis
points this week to 3.19 percent as of 10:25 a.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It declined one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, today.  The PBOC said it will use a combination of liquidity tools,
including reverse-repurchase contracts, repurchase contracts,
bills and the reserve requirement, to manage cash supply in the
banking system, according to a quarterly reported posted on its
website yesterday.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 65 basis points this week to 3.19
percent, according to a weighted average rate compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It fell four basis points
today.  The yield on the 3.41 percent government bond due March
2019 dropped four basis points this week to 3.38 percent and two
basis points today, according to the Interbank Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Andrew Janes,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 