-- China Industrial Output, Inflation Boost Easing Odds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-11T09:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/china-s-april-consumer-inflation-slows-to-3-4-.html
China ’s industrial  production  grew
the least since 2009 in April, new  yuan  loans missed estimates
and inflation was below target, boosting speculation Premier  Wen Jiabao  will take steps to stimulate the economy.  Output increased 9.3 percent from a year earlier, the
biggest negative surprise against forecasts in two years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Local-currency loans of 681.8
billion yuan ($108 billion) compared with the median economist
estimate of 780 billion yuan.  Consumer prices  rose 3.4 percent
from a year earlier, staying below the government’s annual goal
for the third month.  The data show China’s slowdown is deepening after Wen’s
campaign to rein in property and consumer prices reduced
economic  growth  last quarter to the least in almost three years.
 India ’s March industrial production unexpectedly contracted and
 Japan ’s central bank pledged to provide emergency liquidity if
needed as Europe’s debt woes sap global confidence.  “This set of data will definitely force the government’s
hand to ease,” said Yao Wei, China economist for Societe
Generale SA in Hong Kong. A cut in banks’ reserve-requirement
ratios may happen “any minute now,” and “more fiscal easing
is also highly likely,” Yao said.  China’s  retail sales  in April gained 14.1 percent from a
year earlier, compared with estimates of 15.1 percent and
March’s 15.2 percent increase. Fixed-asset investment excluding
rural households rose 20.2 percent in the first four months of
the year, compared with forecasts for a 20.5 percent gain.  M2, the broadest measure of  money supply , rose 12.8 percent
in April from a year earlier, the central bank said. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg estimated a 13.3 percent rise. New local-
currency loans were 1.01 trillion yuan in March and 739.6
billion yuan a year earlier.  Stocks Fall  The benchmark Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.6 percent to
close at the lowest level in two weeks.  A separate Ministry of Finance report today showed China’s
April fiscal revenue rose 6.9 percent from a year earlier,
compared with an 18.7 percent gain in March.  The People’s Bank of China has held off for almost three
months in adding to the two reductions in banks’ reserve
requirement ratio after the latest cut in February.  It is “really urgent to conduct more monetary easing and
fiscal stimulus policy,” said Banny Lam, head of global
economic research at CCB International Securities Ltd., a unit
of China Construction Bank, one of the four biggest state-owned
banks. Lam said he expects a 50-basis-point cut in banks’
reserve-requirement  ratios  before the end of May.  The central bank may lower the ratio this weekend or at
latest by next weekend, said Chen Liqiu, a strategist at
Jianghai Securities Co. in  Shanghai .  Inflation Target  Consumer-price inflation matched the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 35 economists and compares with the
government’s 4 percent annual goal.  The increase in food prices slowed to 7 percent last month
from a year earlier, while costs fell 0.9 percent from the
previous month, the statistics bureau said.  The producer-price  index  dropped 0.7 percent in April from
a year earlier after declining 0.3 percent in March, the first
back-to-back decline since 2009. Prices rose 0.2 percent in
April from March, the report showed.  China needs to pay attention to upside price risks, the
People’s Bank of China said in its first-quarter monetary policy
report published yesterday. “Although overall price gains are
staying on a moderating trend, they are not yet stable,” the
central bank said.  The economy expanded 8.1 percent in the first three months
from a year earlier, the fifth quarterly deceleration and the
slowest pace in almost three years, as Wen’s crackdown on the
 property market  cooled domestic demand and  Europe ’s debt crisis
crimped overseas sales.  Trade Below Estimates  The nation’s exports and imports both rose less than
estimated in April, a customs bureau report showed yesterday.  Elsewhere in  Asia , India’s production at factories,
utilities and mines declined 3.5 percent in March from a year
earlier, the  Central Statistical Office  said in  New Delhi  today,
compared with a 4.1 percent increase in February.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area will drop
0.3 percent this year, the European Commission said today,
reiterating a February forecast.  In the U.S., producer prices in April were probably
unchanged for a second straight month, with core wholesale
prices gaining 0.2 percent from March after a 0.3 percent
increase the previous month, a survey of economists showed.  Sany Forecast  Sany Heavy Industry Co., China’s biggest maker of
excavators, may cut its unit-sales forecast for this year as
government efforts to curb property speculation slow
construction. “Given the weak market, I think there’s a need to
adjust our sales target,” Xiang Ru’an, the company’s vice
president, said in a May 5 phone interview.  China’s power output in April grew 0.7 percent from a year
earlier, the slowest pace for a non-Lunar New Year month in
almost three years. It increased 7.2 percent in March.  “To see the number so sharply down, I think the problem of
macro issues comes into question,” said  Michael Parker , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  Hong Kong . “It’s
closely linked to the economy. This is certainly not a good
sign.”  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore ,
Brendan Murray in Sydney and Baizhen Chua in Beijing. Editors:
Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  