-- Chinalco Said to Seek $1 Billion in IPO of Peruvian Unit
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-05-11T03:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/chinalco-said-to-seek-1-billion-in-ipo-of-peruvian-unit.html
Aluminum Corp. of China , the
country’s biggest producer of the metal, may start a $1 billion
initial share sale this month in  Hong Kong  of its Peruvian
copper mining unit, said two people with knowledge of the
matter.  The Hong Kong stock exchange may consider the listing plan
of Chinalco Mining Corporation International next week, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the information is
private. The IPO will probably raise $800 million to $1 billion,
they said.  Beijing-based Aluminum Corp., or Chinalco, is investing in
copper,  iron ore  and rare earths as overcapacity and rising
power costs shrink profit margins from aluminum smelting. Mining
and basic material companies have raised a total of $1.6 billion
in Hong Kong in the past year including Glencore International
Plc, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chinalco Mining may start gauging investor demand before
the end of May should it get the exchange’s approval, the people
said. Chinalco is developing the Toromocho project in  Peru  which
it acquired the rights to in 2007 when it purchased Canadian
company Peru Copper Inc.  Calls to the office of  Yuan  Li, Chinalco’s spokesman, went
unanswered. Hong Kong’s The Standard newspaper reported the IPO
today, without saying where it got the information.  BNP Paribas SA,  China  International Capital Corp. and
Morgan Stanley will manage the sale, the people said.  Copper Reserves  Chinalco plans to invest $2.2 billion to develop the
project which has 1.526 billion metric tons of reserves of
copper, molybdenum and silver, according to the company’s
website. It has a mine-life of 36 years, it said.  Construction began in May 2011 and operations may start in
October 2013, processing 117,000 metric tons of copper ore a
day,  David Thomas , vice-president of the company’s Peruvian
unit, said at a conference in Peru in September.  Chinalco has delayed an initial public offering of its
engineering and construction unit in Hong Kong, the company said
March 28.  Chinalco’s overseas assets also include a stake held by its
unit  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  in Rio Tinto Group’s Simandou
iron ore project in  Guinea , which it acquired for $1.35 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  