-- Philippine Protesters Accuse China of Sea Dispute Bullying
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-11T08:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/china-s-tourism-watchdog-issues-warning-on-philippine-trips.html
Filipinos demonstrated in front of a
Chinese consular office in Manila and  China  told tourists to
avoid unnecessary travel to the Philippines in signs of an
escalating dispute over territory in the  South China Sea .  Shares of Philippine tourism-related stocks slid for a
second day after China’s Xinhua News Agency reported that travel
agencies in Shanghai and Guangzhou suspended tours. On May 9,
Chinese travel agencies Ctrip.com and Beijing Caissa
International Travel Service Co. also suspended trips.  Tensions have risen since a standoff began last month
between ships from both countries over an island called
Scarborough Shoal by the Philippines and Huangyan by China.
China has become more assertive over its claims to the oil and
gas rich waters of the South China Sea, while the U.S., which
has a mutual defense treaty with the  Philippines , has shifted
its military posture toward the Asia-Pacific region.  “ All we ask is for the Chinese government to respect the
rights of its neighbors, even while it needs to assert its
national interest,” said Bituin Bautista, one of the protest
organizers. “If it continues in this path of obstinate
bullying, it will only have itself to blame for the consequences
of its folly.”  Kung Fu Fighting  About 500 people gathered for the protest, demanding that
China pull out of the disputed area. Demonstrators sang and
danced to the 1974 disco hit “Kung Fu Fighting.” Police
stopped a man from trying to burn three Chinese flags.  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told a daily
briefing in Beijing that the Philippines should take measures to
keep the dispute from getting any worse.  “The government has incited the Philippine people to
protest,” Hong said. “We again demand the Philippines to take
effective actions, respect China’s territory and sovereignty and
avoid escalating the situation.”  China’s National Tourism Administration warned Chinese
tourists who are already in the Philippines to abide by the
local laws and mind their security, according to a  statement 
posted late on its website last night. The Philippines should
ensure the safety of Chinese people and companies in the
country, the Foreign Ministry said yesterday.  Shares Slide  Alliance Global Group Inc. (AGI) , which owns the operator of the
Philippines’ biggest casino, fell 0.3 percent to 12.90 pesos at
the close of trading in Manila, after posting its biggest loss
in more than seven months yesterday.  Cebu Air Inc. (CEB) , the nation’s
largest budget carrier, fell 2.3 percent to 67.25 pesos, its
lowest close in more than a month.  Hotel operator  Waterfront Philippines Inc. (WPI)  declined 5.8
percent to 40.5 centavos, while  Acesite Hotel Corp. (ACE)  decreased
2.7 percent to 7.59 pesos. The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP) 
fell 0.7 percent to 5,158.14.  The standoff with China may force Philippine travel
agencies to look to other markets for tourists, according to
Aileen Clemente, president of the 364-member Philippine Travel
Agencies Association.  China is the fourth-largest market for tourists to the
Philippines, behind  South Korea , the U.S. and  Japan . Tourist
arrivals from China rose 78 percent in the first quarter, more
than from anywhere else among the top 12 markets, to 96,455, or
8.4 percent of the total, according to government data.  Cancellations Already  “Since there have been cancellations from China already,
we have to move strategies elsewhere,” Clemente said. “We will
have to mount new markets and increase marketing efforts in
countries such as  Russia ,  India ,  Europe  and the  Middle East . The
effect of the cancellations is immediate.”  The latest dispute began on April 10, when Chinese ships
blocked the Philippines from inspecting Chinese fishing boats in
the area. China’s Foreign Ministry has summoned a Beijing-based
Philippine diplomat at least three times since the standoff
began.  China has become more assertive in the South China Sea and
 Cnooc Ltd. (883)  began its first deep-water drilling rig in the area
on May 9. Cnooc Chairman Wang Yilin said the rigs are a
“strategic weapon for promoting the development of the
country’s offshore oil industry.”  China has also clamped down on the Philippines beyond the
tourism sector. China will increase quarantine and inspection of
fruits shipped from the Philippines including pineapples and
bananas, the General Administration of Quality Supervision,
Inspection and Quarantine said in a release dated May 2.  The Philippines sought to play down the latest dispute. In
an interview with Bloomberg Television, Finance Secretary Cesar
Purisima said every bilateral relationship has its issues and
that the media was blowing the latest dispute out of proportion.  ‘Peace-Loving’  “Filipinos are peace-loving and most welcoming of
foreigners and I think our track record bears that out,”
Purisima said in the interview. “It is important that we
continue to work on this on a reasonable basis.”  The Philippines has a mutual defense treaty with the U.S.,
which announced last year that it would carry out a “pivot” to
focus its military in the Asia-Pacific region. At a meeting with
Philippine leaders on April 30, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  reaffirmed the U.S. commitment under its mutual defense
treaty, which obligates the two sides to support the other if
attacked.  At a regular briefing yesterday, U.S. State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  urged restraint and said the U.S.
supports “any kind of collaborative, diplomatic process by the
claimants to resolve the disputes without any kind of
coercion.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Norman P. Aquino in  Manila  at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  