-- Colorado Same-Sex Union Fight Shows Presidential Risks
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-05-11T04:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/colorado-same-sex-union-fight-shows-presidential-risks.html
Lawmakers in  Colorado  are girding for
a fight next week over a bill that would allow civil unions for
same-sex couples in a special legislative session Republicans
say is motivated by presidential election-year politics.  Governor John Hickenlooper, a Democrat, called the session
the day after Republicans in the state House of Representatives
used a parliamentary maneuver to kill the legislation, as
President  Barack Obama  went on the record for the first time as
supporting legalization of gay marriage.  “I suspect it’s not coincidence the governor had President
Obama’s top Colorado political operatives shuttling in and out
of his office,” Republican House Speaker Frank McNulty said
during a press conference yesterday. “It could be more than
coincidence that the president came out in favor of gay marriage
and then only hours later Hickenlooper announced a special
session.”  While Hickenlooper denied that, the remarks set the tone
for a politically charged clash next week at a time that Obama’s
support of gay marriage and the approval of a constitutional
amendment banning it in  North Carolina  illustrate both the
importance of the issue in electoral politics and its risks.  Hickenlooper’s special session may be aimed at motivating
voters who could help swing Colorado, a battleground state Obama
carried in 2008, becoming the first Democratic presidential
candidate to do so since 1992, said Eric Sondermann, a Denver-
based independent political analyst.  ‘More Risk’  “I think there was more risk to not doing this than there
was to doing it,” Sondermann said. “If you look at the swing
voters in this state, they are not gays and lesbians. They are
not social conservatives voting Republican. They tend to be more
female than male, are congregated in the Denver suburbs and
their views on civil unions are evolving quickly.”  The measure, which would have permitted gay and lesbian
couples to inherit one another’s property and take family leave
and make medical end-of-life decisions for a partner, passed
three House committees before being derailed on the Republican-
controlled House floor.  Hickenlooper scheduled the special session starting May 14
to consider legislation focusing on seven issues, including
civil unions, water projects, unemployment and driving while
under the influence of marijuana. All those bills died when
McNulty called a recess as the legislative session wound down on
May 8, pushing consideration past a midnight deadline.  ‘Bipartisan Support’  “Much of this legislation has significant bipartisan
support and addressed subject matter crucial to the people of
Colorado,” said Hickenlooper in a statement yesterday. “The
ramifications of the  General Assembly’s  inability to take up the
business of its people will negatively impact the State of
Colorado and hamper its ability to serve its people.”  The civil union debate pits Hickenlooper, a microbrewery
and restaurant owner turned politician who is popular among the
state’s business leaders, against Republican House Speaker
McNulty, a conservative Catholic from the Denver suburb of
Highlands Ranch.  When asked about McNulty’s assertion that his special
session is motivated by presidential politics, Hickenlooper
broke out in laughter and said neither he nor his staff had
spoken with Obama recently.  The debate also reflects the divided views of the Colorado
population. Democratic voters largely live in Denver and
surrounding areas, while Republicans dominate the southern
region near  Colorado Springs  and most rural parts of the state.  Intense Lobbying  Lobbying remained fierce on both sides of the issue
yesterday, with supporters and opponents flooding McNulty’s
office with phone calls and e-mails.  One Colorado , a Denver-based organization representing
25,000 gay and lesbians statewide, garnered 3,000 signatures on
a petition asking McNulty to give “civil unions a fair
hearing” less than 24 hours after Hickenlooper announced the
special session, said Jace Woodrum, deputy director.  The group also raised $12,000 after it sent out an e-mail
May 8 informing its members that the civil union bill died in
the House without being heard.  “We’ve never raised so much with one e-mail and we’ve
never gotten so many petition signatures with one e-mail,”
Woodrum said. “We’ve never seen as much energy as we have now.
They’re hurt that Speaker McNulty played politics with their
families.”  Focus on the Family, a Colorado Springs-based Christian
organization, worked with Colorado Family Action and the
Colorado Catholic Conference to deliver 70,000 postcards to
state legislators in opposition to the bill.  ‘Stepping Stone’  “We oppose the civil unions bill,” said Carrie Gordon
Earll, a Focus on the Family spokeswoman. “It is a stepping
stone to same-sex marriage.”  The special session process requires legislators to
introduce new bills and to debate them again in committee before
bringing them to the floor if they’re approved.  As House Speaker, McNulty can change the composition of his
chamber’s committees and determine which committees hear which
bills. He said yesterday that reordering the committees “is
something we’re going to take a look at.”  House Minority Leader Mark Ferrandino, a Democrat,
expressed concern that the civil union measure will meet the
same fate in the special session as during the regular session.  “I hope the Speaker will do the right thing and not kill
it by stacking a committee,” Ferrandino said in a press
conference yesterday.  “At the end of the day we have the same
leadership we had in the House and if they are bent on killing
it they will kill it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 Joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  