-- Colombia Central Bank Minutes Show Split on Inflation Risks
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-05-11T16:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/colombia-central-bank-minutes-show-split-on-inflation-risks-1-.html
Colombian policy makers are divided
on inflation risks to the economy, with some seeing price
pressures due to strong domestic demand, while others see price
increases under control.  The seven-member board, led by central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe, on April 30 voted unanimously to keep the overnight
rate unchanged at 5.25 percent, according to the  minutes  of the
meeting posted on the central bank’s website today.  Banco de la Republica has kept borrowing costs on hold
since its March meeting as inflation slows after nine rate
increases in 13 months. Slowing economic activity will allow the
bank to pause for the rest of this year, though policy makers
may use other measures to tame credit growth,  Francisco
Rodriguez , an economist at Bank of America, said in a May 3
report.  Some directors see inflationary risks from public
investment, consumer demand and falling unemployment, the
minutes showed. Others note that given the lag in the effect of
 interest rate  rises on demand and that inflation is within the
target range, price pressures “have been contained by the
measures already taken.”  The central bank raised rates in February to their highest
in almost three years, bucking a global trend for lower rates,
after a 22 percent expansion in credit helped power 5.9 percent
growth in 2011, the fastest since 2007.  Inflation  Consumer prices rose 0.14 percent in April, the national
statistics agency said in a May 5 report, less than the 0.17
percent median estimate of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Annual inflation, which unexpectedly slowed to a seven-month low
of 3.40 percent in March, was 3.43 percent in April.  Colombia ’s inflation compares with 5.10 percent in  Brazil ,
3.5 percent in  Chile  and 3.4 percent in  Mexico . The central bank
targets price-growth of 2 percent to 4 percent.  Inflation will end this year at 3.29 percent, according to
the median estimate in a central bank survey published April 12,
down from a projected 3.45 percent in the March survey.  Policy makers also decided at the meeting to extend their
daily dollar purchase program by three months at the current
daily rate amid concern the peso’s 10 percent advance against
the dollar in 2012 is hurting the nation’s manufacturers and
farmers.  ‘Diverse Set’  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said in an April 13
interview that Colombia should use a “diverse set of
instruments” to halt the gains in the peso to protect jobs.  Retail sales surged 9.4 percent in February from the year-
ago period, boosted by the leap year, as industrial production
increased 4.5 percent.  The bank board sees “the need to continue closely
monitoring  consumer credit ,” which grew 22 percent in March
from a year earlier and could stir inflation pressures,
according to the minutes.  Total credit grew an annual 19.7 percent in March after
expanding 20.4 percent in February, according to the minutes.  By comparison, outstanding credit in Brazil,  Latin
America ’s biggest economy, rose 18 percent in March from a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 