-- Commodities Erase Gain for Year in Worst Run Since 2008
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-05-11T21:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/commodities-erase-gain-for-year-in-worst-run-since-2008.html
Commodities fell for an eighth
straight session, wiping out gains for the year, after data from
 Asia  showed a further slowdown in industrial output and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  said that it had a $2 billion trading loss.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
posted its longest slump since December 2008 and dropped to
640.46, the lowest since Dec. 22. The measure fell 0.8 percent
to settle at 642.58 at 3:53 p.m., down 0.4 percent since Dec.
31. The last annual decline was in 2008, before a rally that saw
the gauge double over the next three years.  Twenty-one of the raw materials tracked by the GSCI fell,
led by cotton, soybeans and lead. Crude oil and copper capped
their second straight weekly losses after industrial output
slowed in China and shrank in  India , adding to concerns that
economic growth is stalling as  Europe  struggles with a debt
crisis.  Jamie Dimon , JPMorgan Chase’s chief executive officer,
said that the bank made egregious mistakes trading derivatives.  “The optimism we had at the end of 2011 that created a
firm footing for a lot of commodities has slowly eroded,” said
 Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of Barratt’s Bulletin, a
commodity-markets newsletter in Sydney. “The outlook remains
mixed to negative.”  Crude-oil futures for June delivery declined as much as 1.6
percent to $95.56 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and closed at $96.13, the lowest settlement since Dec. 19. Crude
accounts for 51.4 percent of the GSCI Spot Index, according to
weightings on Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services’ website.  Copper futures for July delivery fell as much as 2 percent
to $3.6165 a pound on the Comex in  New York , before settling at
$3.648. Spot gold fell as much as 1.3 percent to $1,573.82 an
ounce, the lowest since Jan. 3.  Industrial Output  China’s industrial output rose 9.3 percent in April from a
year earlier, according to data today, compared with the 12.2
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 32
economists and 11.9 percent in March.  Production in India 
unexpectedly contracted 3.5 percent in March.  The S&P GSCI declined in March, April and this month,
 overturning gains  for the year of as much as 11 percent, as
growth in China, the largest user of energy and metals, expanded
in the first quarter at the slowest pace in almost three years.
Over the past decade, the index had its sole annual loss in
2008, tumbling 43 percent, as the world economy sank in
recession.  The euro slid to a three-month low before  Italy ,  Spain  and
France sell bonds next week amid concern the debt crisis is
deepening, with Greek leaders unable to form a government since
May 6. The currency, which was at $1.292, is set for a second
straight weekly loss. More than 50 percent of investors predict
a nation will exit the euro this year, according to a Bloomberg
Global Poll.  ‘Time to Resolve’  “Regardless of whether Greece exits the euro, it will take
a lot of time to resolve the region’s debt crisis,” said
Daisaku Ueno, a senior foreign-exchange and  fixed-income 
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.  Commodity exchange-traded products had $1 billion outflows
in April, led by withdrawals from precious metals and energy,
Societe Generale SA analysts led by  Alain Bokobza  said
yesterday. “Commodities saw large outflows last month due
notably to the gradual landing of the Chinese economy,” they
wrote in a report.  Inflation in  China  was  3.4 percent  in April, below the
government’s full-year target for a third month, the National
Bureau of Statistics said today. That may give Premier Wen
Jiabao more leeway to stimulate the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  