-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Climbs to Four-Year High: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-05-11T21:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/consumer-sentiment-in-u-s-climbed-in-may-to-four-year-high.html
Consumer confidence  rose in May to
the highest level in four years, led by gains among upper-income
Americans that may contribute to a pickup in spending on
expensive items like furniture and appliances.  The Thomson Reuters/University of  Michigan  preliminary
 sentiment  index for May climbed to 77.8, the highest since
January 2008, from 76.4 the prior month. The gauge was projected
to drop to 76, according to the median forecast of 68 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. For the first time since monthly
data began in 1978, it advanced for a ninth-straight time.  A  jobless rate  that has dropped to the lowest level in
three years and a housing market that shows signs of stabilizing
may be helping lift Americans’ spirits. The unexpected gain in
confidence signaled consumer purchases, which account for 70
percent of the economy, can keep expanding after growing at the
fastest pace in more than a year.  “What happened to the  unemployment rate  is really the
linchpin,” said  Jonathan Basile , an economist at Credit Suisse
in  New York  who projected confidence would rise. “When people
are not as concerned about losing their jobs, they tend to be a
little bit more comfortable making decisions on parting with
their money.”  Stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a
two-month low, as a slump in bank shares driven by JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s $2 billion trading loss overshadowed the
unexpected increase in confidence. The 500 Index fell 0.3
percent to 1,353.39 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Growth in Europe  Elsewhere today, the European Commission projected the
euro-region economy will return to growth in 2013, with only
 Spain  among its 17 members remaining in recession. In  China ,
industrial production grew in April at the slowest pace since
2009.  Estimates for the sentiment index in the Bloomberg  survey 
ranged from 73.5 to 78. The index averaged 64.2 during the last
recession and 89 in the five years before the 18-month economic
slump that ended in June 2009.  Michigan’s sentiment reading for May caught up with the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, which reached a four-year high
a month earlier. The Bloomberg gauge has since lost momentum,
falling to a three-month low last week as payroll gains slowed.  The Michigan survey’s index of  current conditions , which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether they consider it a good time to buy big-ticket items
like cars and furniture, climbed to 87.3, also a four-year high,
from 82.9 the prior month.  Income Breakdown  The gain was paced by households earning $75,000 or more,
the report showed. Confidence decreased for those making less.  The index of  consumer expectations  for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
eased to 71.7 from an almost three-year high of 72.3 in April.  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the owner of its namesake and Bloomingdale’s
department stores, this week reported first-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates as sales at stores open at least a
year advanced 4.4 percent. The Cincinnati-based retailer also
boosted its same-store sales forecast to about 3.7 percent this
year from a previous estimate of 3.5 percent.  Same-store sales were “clearly above what we had expected,
and that makes us feel very good about the consumer,” Chief
Financial Officer Karen Hoguet said during a May 9 earnings
call.  The jobless rate fell to 8.1 percent in April, the lowest
level since January 2009, Labor Department figures showed this
month. Employers added 115,000 workers to payrolls, the fewest
since October, according to the data. The divergence between the
decrease in employment and smaller-than-projected gain in
payrolls may explain why sentiment failed to rise for lower-
income households.  ‘Slow’ Recovery  “The  U.S. economy  is recovering but at a stubbornly slow
pace,”  Carl Camden , president and chief executive officer of
 Kelly Services Inc. (KELYA) , a staffing agency, said during a May 9
earnings call. “Large companies still aren’t spending and
adding jobs as quickly as would’ve been expected.”  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.1 percent over the next  12 months , the
lowest this year, compared with 3.2 percent in the prior survey.
Over the next five years, Americans expected a 3 percent rate of
inflation, compared with a previously reported 2.9 percent in
the previous report.  Another report today showed wholesale prices fell in April
for the first time in four months, led by a decline in fuel
costs that signals inflation may cool.  The  producer price index  dropped 0.2 percent after no
change in March, according to data from the Labor Department.
The 1.9 percent increase over the past 12 months was the
smallest since October 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  