-- Cotton Extends Slump to 21-Month Low as Supplies Expand
-- B y   J a e   H u r ,   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-05-11T19:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/cotton-declines-to-21-month-low-on-increasing-global-stockpiles.html
Cotton tumbled to a 21-month low,
trimming costs for clothing retailers including  Gap (GPS)  Inc., after
the U.S. forecast rising inventories and as industrial output
slowed in  Asia .  World stockpiles will climb 10 percent to 73.75 million
bales in the season that starts Aug. 1, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said yesterday. Industrial output slowed in  China 
and shrank in India, adding to concern that the global economy
will weaken as the European debt crisis worsens. Rains are
improving prospects for crops in  Texas  that were hurt by drought
last year.  “If China’s slowing more than expected, then it drives the
risk-off attitude in commodity markets,” said  Michael Creed , an
agribusiness economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. “The
market is still trying to come to grips with the weakening
global economy and a market that’s looking increasingly
comfortable in terms of how well it’s supplied.”  The fiber has plunged 64 percent from a record in March
2011 as higher prices encouraged farmers to plant more and
demand fell in China, the biggest user. The commodity was the
worst performer today among the 24 raw materials tracked by the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index, which fell for an eighth
straight session, the longest slide since December 2008.  Cotton for July delivery sank 3.5 percent to settle at
78.97 cents a pound at 2:34 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York , after reaching 77.16 cents, the lowest for a most-active
contract since July 30, 2010. Futures declined for an eighth
session, the longest losing streak since June 4, 2010.  Texas Rains  Rains last week in Texas, plus the expected precipitation
over the next five days of 0.5 inch (1.27 centimeters) to 2
inches, “will favor germination and early growth” of the crop,
Kyle Tapley, a meteorologist with MDA Information Systems Inc.,
located in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said today in an e-mail. The
state has the biggest area planted with cotton in the U.S.,
according to government data.  “The ongoing rain event across much of the southern half
of western Texas added to the bearish tone of the USDA
numbers,”  Sharon Johnson , a senior analyst at Penson Futures in
Atlanta, said in an e-mail. “Any modest rallies should be used
as selling opportunities.”  Commodities as tracked by the  GSCI index  wiped out gains
for the year today as copper, crude oil and grains fell after
the Asian industrial reports and JPMorgan Chase & Co. disclosed
a $2 billion trading loss.  China’s  industrial output  rose 9.3 percent in April from a
year earlier, according to data today, compared with the 12.2
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 32 economists
and 11.9 percent in March. Production in  India  unexpectedly
contracted 3.5 percent in March.  China Imports  Cotton imports into China may tumble 35 percent from the
current season to 14 million bales, the USDA said yesterday.
U.S. production will climb to 17 million bales, topping
analysts’ forecasts for a crop of 16.67 million bales, the
agency’s data showed. One bale weighs 480 pounds, or 218
kilograms.  “The increase in world stockpiles was a surprise,” said
Han Sung Min, a broker at Korea Exchange Bank Futures Co. in
 Seoul . “Given China’s slowing imports, the USDA report has
fueled cotton’s bearish sentiment, and prices may test the 75-
cent level in the short term.”  Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain, said in February it
expected lower costs in the second half.  Abercrombie & Fitch
Co. (ANF) , the operator of its namesake and Hollister teen-clothing
stores, told analysts on March 7 it will benefit from declining
prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  