-- Credit Rating Companies, Deutsche Bank, Goldman: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-05-11T11:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/credit-rating-companies-deutsche-bank-goldman-compliance.html
European Union governments have
scrapped plans for finance ministers to thrash out an accord
next week on tougher rules for credit ratings companies.  Diplomats from the region’s 27 nations decided yesterday
that more talks are needed by officials on the draft law before
it can be agreed on by finance ministers, said an EU official.  The draft law has been taken off the agenda of a meeting of
finance ministers on May 15, said the official, who can’t be
identified in line with EU policy.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
chief, proposed last year to force businesses to rotate the
credit ratings companies they use. Barnier has said the measure
would boost competition and address conflicts of interest.
Regulators and industry have warned that the step could reduce
the quality of ratings in the short term.  The measure is part of a broader draft law presented by
Barnier which would also allow investors to sue ratings
companies in cases of misconduct or gross negligence, and give
the European Securities and Markets Authority increased
oversight powers over the industry.  Governments reached an agreement in March to scale back the
rotation plans, without settling the details.  Denmark, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, has
proposed limiting rotation so that it only covers ratings of
securitizations and other so-called structured finance
instruments.  National diplomats are weighing whether to scale back the
measures further so that rotation would apply only to so-called
resecuritizations, such as collateralized debt obligations that
are repackaged and used to back another round of securitized
debt, the official said.  The credit-ratings law requires approval by national
governments and by lawmakers in the European Parliament, before
it can come into effect.  Compliance Action  Martin Currie Fined by SEC, U.K. FSA for Client Manipulation  Martin Currie  Investment Management Ltd., an Edinburgh-
based fund management group, was fined about $14 million by
finance regulators in the U.S. and U.K. for manipulating a
client to aid a hedge fund the firm managed.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission charged Martin
Currie Investment Management Ltd. and Martin Currie Inc. with
advising  The China Fund Inc. (CHN)  to invest in its struggling hedge
fund with a “largely illiquid exposure” to a Chinese company,
the regulator said yesterday.  “The misconduct in this case strikes at the heart of the
fiduciary relationship between an  investment adviser  and its
client,” said  Robert Khuzami , SEC enforcement director, in the
agency’s  statement . The SEC investigation into individuals is
continuing.  Martin Currie settled the charges with the SEC for $8.3
million and was fined 3.5 million pounds ($5.7 million) by the
U.K. Financial Services Authority. It is the largest fine levied
by the FSA for failing to manage a conflict of interest, the
British regulator said.  Since it disclosed the conflict of interest in July, Martin
Currie’s assets under management have fallen to about 5 billion
pounds, according to its website, compared with 10.1 billion
pounds in mid-2011.  The firm gave preferential treatment to its client, the
Martin Currie  China  Hedge Fund LP, which had invested heavily in
a Chinese printer-cartridge recycling company, Jackin
International Holdings, and was facing increasing requests for
redemptions from its investors, the SEC said.  Martin Currie’s unlisted investments division has now been
closed, the firm said in a statement.  “The FSA and SEC investigations related to historic
investments in a series of three unlisted bonds, the first of
which took place five years ago,” the firm said. “Those
investments gave rise to a conflict of interest between two
client accounts, which also exposed certain weaknesses in Martin
Currie’s systems and controls.”  The firm said it compensated the client and returned all
related fees.  Martin Currie’s directors and external shareholders have
also invested about 25 million pounds in the company, which gave
it more than 300 percent of its regulatory capital requirement,
the  money manager  said.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Votes to Finish Dodd-Frank Derivatives Exchange Rules  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  voted to
require swaps exchanges to have pauses and halts in trading and
abide by other restrictions to limit market risks under final
Dodd-Frank Act regulations.  The agency voted 5-0 yesterday to complete a series of
rules, including record-keeping and reporting requirements, that
will apply to exchanges. The agency intends many of the
regulations to be flexible guidelines for compliance instead of
prescriptive rules, according to a CFTC summary.  “These exchanges for the first time will be able to list
and trade swaps to bring the benefit of pre-trade
transparency,”  Gary Gensler , the agency’s chairman said before
the vote.  Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul enacted in
2010, seeks to have most swaps traded on exchanges or other so-
called swap execution facilities, governed by separate rules yet
to be completed. The rules are intended to increase transparency
in the $708 trillion global swaps market after largely
unregulated swaps helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  The agency delayed a final vote on the most controversial
element of the rules governing exchanges, a restriction on the
amount of trading that must occur in a centralized market. The
agency postponed a vote on the provision amid internal dissent
and opposition from  CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the world’s largest
futures exchange. “The commission will be best served by
continued dialog,” said Mark Wetjen, a Democratic commissioner.  For more, click here.  Obama’s Regulation-Killing to Save $6 Billion in Five Years  U.S. rule changes involving street signs, train control
systems and hospital practices will save consumers and
businesses almost $6 billion in the next five years, President
 Barack Obama ’s administration said.  The savings is a large part of the annual cost of
rulemaking, said Cass Sunstein, administrator of the White House
 Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs , in announcing the
reforms yesterday at an American Bar Association meeting in
 Washington .  “That’s a significant chunk of the total costs of
rulemaking in any given year and we have on one day taken away
that cost,” he said.  Republicans have criticized some regulations Obama issued
as too burdensome on business and made a campaign issue of his
rule-making approach. Some of yesterday’s changes, including
rules for vapor-recovery systems at gasoline stations, a partial
exemption from installing railroad crash-avoidance technology,
and streamlined health-care reporting, were disclosed last year.  “They’ve already taken credit for this,” said James
Gattuso, a senior fellow at the Washington-based  Heritage
Foundation , which says it advocates conservative political
positions.  For more, click here.  Big Four Auditors Welcome China’s Rule to Localize Their Firms  Two of the biggest global auditing firms are accepting a
new directive from China to staff their operations with Chinese
citizens, saying they are already trending that way.  Within three years, all senior partners for auditors’
operations in China must be Chinese citizens with local
accountant certifications, according to rules posted on the
website of China’s  Ministry of Finance  May 9. Two of the so-
called Big Four auditing firms, whose U.S. affiliates are Ernst
& Young LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, said they support
the move.  “Our business is well-positioned for this transition,”
Ernst & Young said in a statement. “The new measures are in
line with EY’s existing strategy to accelerate localization of
our business in China.”  China drew particular attention last year as dozens of
Chinese companies disclosed auditor resignations or accounting
irregularities, leading to the suspension or delisting of their
shares. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the
auditor watchdog group it supervises have met repeatedly with
Chinese counterparts to discuss lifting barriers for inspectors
to review auditors of U.S.-listed companies in China.  PwC China, the local affiliate of PricewaterhouseCoopers,
said in a statement that it has been “actively localizing its
China practice by investing heavily in developing local talent
and promoting local partners in past years.”  Colleen Brennan , a spokeswoman for the U.S. Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board that oversees auditors, declined to
immediately comment on the rules. Deloitte LLP and KPMG LLP, the
remaining members of the Big Four, didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment.  The SEC sued Shanghai-based Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA
Ltd., the agency said May 9, alleging that the firm refused to
provide documents related to a China-based company under
investigation for potential accounting fraud against U.S.
investors.  Filings  Goldman Lifts ‘Reasonably Possible’ Legal-Loss Estimate 13%  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, raised estimates of potential losses from legal claims
by 13 percent and said a probe into its handling of Greek
finances includes trading and research.  The forecast of “reasonably possible”  legal costs  rose to
$2.7 billion as of March 31 from $2.4 billion three months
earlier, according to a regulatory  filing  yesterday. The New
York-based firm didn’t give specific reasons for the increase.  Banks started releasing estimates of possible losses after
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission told finance chiefs
in October 2010 that they should disclose such costs “when
there is at least a reasonable possibility” they may be
incurred, even if the risk is too low to require reserves.  The estimate doesn’t include potential losses from legal
matters that are at an early stage or where the firm can’t
determine the potential amount, according to the filing.  An investigation of the firm’s financing and swap
transactions with the Greek government, which started about two
years ago, also includes “trading and research activities with
respect to Greek sovereign debt,” according to the filing.
“Goldman Sachs has cooperated with the investigations and
reviews,” the company said.  The company also disclosed that the U.S. Department of
Justice and SEC are investigating the firm’s role in the 2008
financial crisis. Those inquiries stem from last year’s report
by the Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, which
said the firm misled clients about mortgage-related investments
before the crisis. Goldman Sachs has denied wrongdoing.  The company is in arbitration with a California school
district and the cities of Houston, Texas, and Reno, Nevada,
over Goldman Sachs’s role as an underwriter and broker-dealer
for more than $1.7 billion in auction-rate securities from 2004
and 2007, according to the filing.  Goldman Sachs is also facing a suit from the founders and
majority shareholders of Dragon Systems Inc. who exchanged their
stake in Dragon for stock in Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products
NV in 2000, according to the filing. L&H went bankrupt on Nov.
29, 2000.  Settlements  Deutsche Bank to Pay $202.3 Million in Mortgage Fraud Accord  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  agreed to pay $202.3 million to settle
civil claims that its MortgageIT unit lied to qualify thousands
of risky mortgages for a federal insurance program in what the
U.S. called a “massive fraud.”  The U.S. claimed in a lawsuit filed May 3, 2011, that
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank and MortgageIT falsely certified
that they properly assessed the default risk of borrowers,
qualifying loans for insurance by the Housing and Urban
Development Department’s Federal Housing Administration.  The bank admitted to some of the conduct alleged in the
complaint, according to a statement yesterday by the office of
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan. The U.S. sued under
the False Claims Act, which permitted it to seek triple damages
and penalties of more than $1 billion.  “MortgageIT and Deutsche Bank treated FHA insurance as
free government money to backstop lending practices that did not
follow the rules,” Bharara said in the statement.  U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan approved the settlement
yesterday, according to the statement.  “We are very pleased to have reached this settlement, for
which we have already fully reserved, and to put this issue
behind us,”  Renee Calabro , a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement. “This marks a significant step in
resolving our mortgage-related exposures.”  The case is U.S. v. Deutsche Bank AG, 11-cv-2976, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  In the Courts  Santander Wins EU Court Challenge to French Tax on Funds  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and other financial services companies
including  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  won a court bid to overturn a
French levy on some mutual funds in a ruling that may lead to
rebates for investors.  The European Union’s Court of Justice ruled that  France  was
wrong to charge a 25 percent withholding tax on dividend
payments to a type of EU-regulated funds, known as UCITS,
outside France. French-based products aren’t required to pay the
tax.  The measure “constitutes a restriction on the free
movement of capital, which is in principle prohibited under EU
law,” the court said in a statement yesterday.  France has already received claims for tax refunds of more
than 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion) and could face more, said
Kit Dickson, a tax partner at  Deloitte & Touche LLP , in a
telephone interview. EU countries have reacted to similar claims
by changing rules that tax foreign-based funds differently.  “We’ll see tax policy changes coming in from different
member states and they’ll either be starting to tax resident
funds as well as non-resident funds or they’ll choose to exempt
them,” Dickson said. “ Spain  changed some of its withholding
tax rules in 2010, the Netherlands changed them in 2008, France
chose to tax resident pension funds from 2009.”  The French Finance Ministry press office didn’t immediately
respond to calls and e-mails requesting comment on the decision
and the potential tax rebate.  While the ruling from the EU’s highest court is binding,
final decisions on the case must be taken by an administrative
court in Montreuil, France.  The cases are:  C-338/11  FIM Santander Top 25 Euro Fi,
Direction des residents a l’etranger et des services generaux,
 C-339/11  Cartera Mobiliara,  C-340/11  Alltri Inka,  C-341/11  DBI-
Fonds APT no 737,  C-342/11  SICAV KBC Select Immo,  C-343/11  SGSS
Deutschland Kapitalanlagegesellschaft,  C-344/11  International
Values Series of the DFA Investment Trust,  C-345/11  Continental
Small Series of the DFA Investment Trust,  C-346/11  Sicav GA Fund
B,  C-347/11  AMB Generali Aktien Euroland.  For more, click here.  Speeches/Interviews  Traders Shifting to Risk Control Over Speed, Corvil’s Byrne Says  Traders dealing with the current electronic market are
willing to sacrifice some speed if it allows them to better
manage their risks, said Donal Byrne, chief executive officer of
technology company Corvil Ltd.  “The environment we work in today is dramatically
different,” Byrne said yesterday at the Bloomberg Enterprise
Technology Summit hosted by Bloomberg Link in New York. “In
2008, 2009, it was speed at any cost. Now it’s speed fast enough
at the right cost,” with the ability to manage the risks
associated with the trading, he said.  The proliferation of high-speed, computer-driven trading
means the profitability of transactions can be influenced in
fractions of a second. Traders have invested in more powerful
servers and techniques such as co-location, in which exchanges
let them place computers close to the market, to improve
execution speed. The faster speeds come with greater risks,
Byrne said.  “A problem with these infrastructures is that they tend to
have a cliff-edge failure scenario,” said Byrne, whose
company’s products and services help clients measure latency, or
the time it takes to process data, and speed up stock trades.
“If we observe that there is a cliff, the risk is how close you
want to go to the cliff edge,” he said. “Latency is really
inversely proportional to risk.”  Speed isn’t only about how quickly a trader can access
orders at a market, Stephen Ehrlich, CEO of New York-based
Lightspeed Financial LLC, said at the same event. It’s about how
quickly the trader’s systems can get the quotation and
transaction data and analyze the information, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  