-- Credit Traders Drive Up Swaps Index Linked to JPMorgan’s Loss
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-05-11T19:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/credit-traders-drive-up-swaps-index-linked-to-jpmorgan-s-loss.html
Derivatives traders seeking to profit
on speculation  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is unwinding positions tied
to its $2 billion trading loss are driving up a vintage credit-
default swaps index to the highest in more than three months.  The 10-year Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index
Series 9, created in 2007, reached as high as 138.8 basis points
today before easing to 137.9 as of 3:17 p.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The index ended yesterday at 126.7 and has
climbed from 111.7 on March 30.  Traders are pushing the index wider as they wager it’s one
of the bank’s biggest positions contributing to the loss,
revealed late yesterday by Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
on a conference call with analysts. Some trading firms seek to
profit from dislocations rather than bets on which way a market
is headed.  The $2 billion loss occurred in  London  under multiple
traders, according to an executive at the New York-based bank,
who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Bloomberg News first
reported April 5 that JPMorgan trader Bruno Iksil had amassed
positions linked to the financial health of corporations that
were so large he was driving price moves in the $10 trillion
market.  Dimon declined on the call to discuss the specific
transactions or people involved. Synthetic credit products are
derivatives that generate gains and losses tied to credit
performance without the owner buying or selling actual debt.
JPMorgan used the instruments to hedge exposure on loans and
other credit risks tied to corporations, banks and sovereign
governments. The losses emerged after the firm tried to reduce
that position and unwind the portfolio, Dimon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  