-- CSN Sinks After Missing Profit Estimates on Costs: Rio Mover
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-05-11T14:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/csn-net-falls-more-than-expected-as-costs-rise-ore-sales-drop.html
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3) ,
 Brazil ’s third-largest steelmaker, dropped the most this year
after first-quarter profit missed analysts’ estimates.  CSN, as the Sao Paulo-based company is known,  fell  as much
as 3.7 percent to 14.56 reais, the biggest intraday decline
since Dec. 8. The stock traded at 14.86 reais at 10:37 a.m.  CSN’s first-quarter net income slumped 82 percent to 110.7
million reais ($56.7 million), or about 8 centavos a share, from
617.5 million reais, 42 centavos, a year earlier, the company
said in a  statement  late yesterday. It was expected to post
profit excluding some items of 446.6 million reais, according to
the average of nine analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The earnings decline came as the steelmaker’s net revenue
rose 2.8 percent in the quarter to 3.9 billion reais, less than
the 23 percent increase in the cost of goods sold. Sales at its
iron ore business, its most profitable unit, fell 1.3 percent.  “The main miss was thanks to iron ore, which saw dismal
sales,” Banco BTG Pactual SA’s analysts Edmo Chagas and Antonio Heluany said in a note to clients today. “While we believe iron
ore volumes will improve and costs will come down, we do not see
these factors as capable of meaningfully widening operating
margins.”  Iron-ore shipments from Brazil, the world’s second-largest
exporter of the steelmaking ingredient, were curtailed this year
after heavy rains in the southeast. Gerdau SA and Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA, the two largest Brazilian
steelmakers, also missed first-quarter analyst estimates amid a
global steel glut.  (CSN will host two  conference calls  with investors today in
Portuguese and English at 11 a.m. and 1:00 p.m.  New York  time,
respectively.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  