-- TD Bank Agrees to Pay $62 Million in Overdraft Fee Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-05-11T23:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/td-bank-agrees-to-pay-62-million-in-overdraft-fee-lawsuit.html
Toronto Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Canada ’s
second-biggest lender, reached a preliminary agreement to pay
$62 million to settle litigation accusing it of gouging
customers on overdraft fees for checking accounts.  The settlement would resolve claims by consumer account
holders who sued over fees charged to debit cards attached to
their checking accounts. U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King
in Miami must approve the settlement. On April 3, King certified
the case as a class-action, or group, lawsuit.  “It’s a good deal for TD Bank customers because it’s going
to help recover for them some portion of the overdraft fees
which we contend were wrongfully assessed against them,” said
Robert C. Gilbert, an attorney for plaintiffs, in a telephone
interview. “Short of the litigation, they would not have had
any opportunity to recover these fees.”  The litigation before King involves more than 30 banks sued
over their overdraft-fee policies. The customers say the banks
reorder debit-card transactions in their computers to maximize
overdraft fees.  Bank of America Corp. , the second-biggest U.S.
bank by assets, agreed last year to pay $410 million, without
admitting liability, to settle an overdraft lawsuit.  “We think it’s in our best interests to put this behind
us,” said TD Bank spokeswoman Rebecca Acevedo in a telephone
interview.  Gilbert said the agreement will cover “several hundred
thousand” customers. The exact number will be determined later
in the settlement approval process, he said.  On April 25, Citizens Bank reached a settlement, agreeing
to pay $137.5 million. In February,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the
biggest U.S. bank by assets, reached an agreement for $110
million. Both are awaiting King’s approval.  The case is In re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-md-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Florida 
(Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  