-- D.C. Scene: Matt Dillon, Waterston, Queen Noor, Podestas
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-05-11T15:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/d-c-scene-matt-dillon-waterston-queen-noor-podestas.html
Actor  Matt Dillon , the emcee of last
night’s  Refugees International  33rd Anniversary Dinner, credits
the late diplomat Richard Holbrooke for getting him involved
with the plight of refugees 15 years ago.  Holbrooke’s widow, the journalist  Kati Marton , explained
that Holbrooke’s favorite movie was the zany film “There’s
Something About Mary,” starring Dillon.  Dillon, actor Sam Waterston, Marton and her daughter
Elizabeth Jennings, joined Queen Noor of Jordan and her daughter
Princess Iman in the Mellon Auditorium where more than 500
guests helped Refugees International raise $650,000.  Refugees International provides assistance and protection
for refugees and promotes solutions to the worldwide crisis,
independent of government and United Nations funding.  Queen Noor presented Lauren Bush Lauren, the co-founder and
chief executive of Feed Projects LLC, with the McCall-Pierpaoli
Humanitarian Award.  Calling her “a role model,” Queen Noor added, “we have
great expectations of her.”  Lauren was with her husband of less than a year, David
Lauren, senior vice president of  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)  She
explained the  FEED Projects , a program that sells tote bags with
the FEED logo. It has provided more than 60 million meals to
children in poverty-stricken areas.  She wore a sleek Ralph Lauren dress, but pointed out her
FEED bag.  The dinner’s honorary chairman was Japanese Ambassador
Ichiro Fujisaki. Guests included Senator  Joseph Lieberman , the
Connecticut Independent, Democratic Congressman Jim McDermott of
Washington and Congressman  Chris Smith , the  New Jersey 
Republican, who received the Congressional Leadership Award. The
same award was given posthumously to Democratic Congressman
Donald Payne of New Jersey, who died in March.  Podestas’ Art Party  Lobbyists Tony and Heather Podesta held an “art party”
Wednesday to showcase work they recently installed in their
home.  Guests sampled from a sushi bar in the living room.
Congressman John Larson, a Connecticut Democrat, and Democratic
Congressman Mike Doyle of Pennsylvania stood in the kitchen
holding plates of pizza cooked in the Podestas’ outdoor pizza
oven by James Alefantis of  Comet Ping Pong .  Journalist Steve Clemons and Andrew Oros, a professor of
international politics at Washington College, celebrated
President  Barack Obama ’s support of gay marriage by wearing
matching T-shirts with the date of their wedding emblazoned on
the front.  Artist Doug Aitken and architect David Adjaye, commissioned
to design the National Museum of African American History and
Culture, marveled at the Podestas’ contemporary-art collection
with works by  Marina Abramovic  and Josephine Meckseper.  Heather Podesta wore a black-and-red-print Alexander McQueen dress, explaining she’d recently met with McQueen
creative director Sarah Burton.  “Duty Free,” said Tony Podesta about where he gets his
collection of quirky ties.  Women to Watch  Also Wednesday night, the Women to Watch Awards brought out
former Congresswoman  Gabrielle Giffords  and Ambassador Capricia
Penavic Marshall, chief of protocol of the U.S.  Running Start, an organization that encourages young women
to enter politics, honored both women with awards at the
 National Press Club , as well as Republican Congresswoman Martha Roby of Alabama, actress Jacqueline Emerson of “The Hunger
Games” and others.  Gifford, a victim of an almost fatal shooting last year,
was mobbed like a movie star when she entered the VIP reception.  Penavic Marshall wore Oscar de la Renta and pearls.  The event also honored Taryn Davis, founder of American
Widow Project, Natalie Randolph, the varsity football coach at
Coolidge High School in  Washington , and Rocio Ortega, a student
activist.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include a preview of the  best weekend
events  in NYC and a  theater  review.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 