-- D’Ieteren Declines as Earnings Miss Estimates: Brussels Mover
-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 2012-05-11T09:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/d-ieteren-declines-as-earnings-miss-estimates-brussels-mover.html
D’Ieteren SA (DIE) , the Belgian owner of
the world’s largest vehicle-glass replacement company, fell to
the lowest level in 2 1/2 years in Brussels trading after
reporting a larger-than-estimated drop in first-quarter
earnings.  The shares  fell as much as 3.21 euros to 27.50 euros, the
lowest price since November 2009. The stock traded at 28.40
euros, or 7.5 percent lower, at 10:28 a.m. local time and has
fallen 41 percent in the last 12 months.  First-quarter pretax profit from continuing operations
excluding one-time items slumped 62 percent as revenue at the
windshield business Belron dropped 8.1 percent with an organic
decline of 11 percent, the Brussels-based company said yesterday
in a statement. The drop in sales was most acute in  Europe  with
a 17 percent slide and the company said the trading outlook for
the rest of the year remains “challenging.”  “We anticipate that the first quarter will turn out to be
the toughest quarter for D’Ieteren this year,” Pascale Weber,
an analyst at KBC Securities in Brussels who rates the stock
“buy,” wrote today in an investor note. She had forecast a
drop in first-quarter pretax earnings of 45 percent. “Belron
faces macro-economic headwinds. However, one should not
underestimate the impact of weather conditions.”  D’Ieteren blamed the drop in Belron sales on the
“exceptionally mild weather” since November and the “weak”
economic environment. Sales at D’Ieteren Auto, the car-
distribution unit, rose 2 percent in the quarter, with overall
group sales falling 2.6 percent.  The company kept its forecast for a 25 percent decline in
full-year pretax earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  