-- Depp’s ‘Shadows’ Is DOA; ‘Where Do We Go?’ Rivets: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-05-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/depp-s-shadows-is-doa-where-do-we-go-rivets-movies.html
Tim Burton’s “ Dark Shadows ” makes
for a gorgeous corpse, lovingly attended, fabulously outfitted
and all but drained of blood.  The director’s eighth collaboration with  Johnny Depp 
celebrates the duo’s lifelong love for the shabby supernatural
’60s soap opera. Their affection, contagious as it is, doesn’t
make up for an anemic story.  The unintended camp of the original, with performances as
shaky as Styrofoam tombstones, is here replaced with broad humor
and visual gags. A vampire cleans his fangs, the bathroom mirror
reflecting only a floating toothbrush and a smear of paste.  Depp, in all his fine-boned eccentricity, plays Barnabas
Collins, the melancholy immortal whose arrival on the old series
spurred one of the unlikeliest pop culture sensations of the
era.  The vampire, along with a haunted mansion full of secondary
characters, is resurrected by Burton and his grade-A cast.  Among others: Eva Green plays the vengeful witch Angelique,
 Michelle Pfeiffer  is Collins family matriarch Elizabeth, and
Burton stalwart Helena Bonham Carter, in flame-red coif, is Dr.
Julia Hoffman, a boozing shrink who takes more than a
professional interest in the handsome bloodsucker.  Crew Cut  After a brief (and expectation-raising) prologue set in
gloomy 18th-century Liverpool, “Dark Shadows” jumps to glammy
1972. Barnabas, buried for nearly two centuries in a chained
coffin, is unearthed by a quickly dispatched crew of
construction workers.  Marveling at paved roads and the glowing golden arches of
McDonald’s, the cane-toting Barnabas totters into town as Curtis Mayfield’s “Super Fly” blares on the soundtrack. (Composer
Danny Elfman expertly mines the era’s hit parade and the
original soap’s spooky cues).  The fish out of water jokes get hit hard and often, with
diminishing returns. By the time Depp’s baffled Barnabas
dismisses rocker Alice Cooper as the ugliest woman he’s ever
seen, the schtick feels played.  Burton and screenwriter Seth Grahame-Smith (“ Abraham
Lincoln : Vampire Hunter”) hew to the original plot, more or
less. The spiky-banged vampire moves back into Collinwood Manor,
where his motley collection of descendants is living in reduced
circumstances.  Dead Ringer  “You’ll have to imagine us on a better day,” Elizabeth
says by way of introduction to the newly arrived nanny Victoria
Winters (Bella Heathcote), who happens to be a dead ringer for
Barnabas’ long lost love Josette.  “Dark Shadows” looks as sumptuous as you’d expect from
Burton and longtime production designer Rick Heinrichs.
Josette’s ghost is particularly lovely, and the climactic scene
when the ancestral home literally comes alive, with blood-
weeping portraits and writhing statues, nearly compensates for
the narrative aimlessness.  Jonathan Frid, the original Barnabas who passed away last
month at age 87, has a quick party-scene cameo, along with
several others from the soap’s cast.  “Dark Shadows,” from  Warner Bros. Pictures , is playing
across the U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  ‘Where Do We Go Now?’  In the mountain village that’s the setting of “ Where Do We
Go Now? ” the church and the mosque stand side by side.
Everybody gets along, more or less. But the men are hotheaded,
and the women worry that a report of sectarian violence
elsewhere could set off a bloodbath at home.  So they burn the arriving newspapers and disable the town’s
one TV.  The plot of this Lebanese movie is mostly about the crazy
schemes the town’s women come up with to keep the men from
killing one another. They concoct a message of rebuke from the
Holy Virgin and import a troupe of Ukrainian burlesque dancers.
(I was never exactly sure why.) They drug the men in order to
hide their guns.  Most of this is funny, but when violence erupts it seems
frighteningly real, and so does death when it arrives. I was
surprised -- astonished, in fact -- to learn that the director,
Nadine Labaki, had cast mostly amateur actors; the performances
are, without exception, riveting.  The last thing I would have expected in a movie with such
somber stakes is Bollywood-style musical numbers like the one in
which the women cavort around the kitchen singing about lacing
their pastries with hashish and tranquilizers, or the romantic
duet between a Muslim and a Christian that takes place entirely
in their thoughts.  Mish Mash  The mishmash of tragedy, farce and music is exceptionally
weird, and rationally it ought to add up to a disaster. Yet it
doesn’t. Though the emotions that the movie summons up don’t fit
together -- in truth, it’s a mess -- the scenes work on their
own, and the harshest ones have a power far beyond what their
context would suggest.  We see the men, through the women’s eyes, as the murderous
buffoons they are. But that doesn’t still the women’s love.  You can see it in the faces lined with loss -- of sons,
husbands, fathers, brothers -- during the first (and finest)
number, a dance-march of serried women, stamping and swaying
their heads in a slow procession toward the village cemetery.  Like those women, the movie grabs frantically at every
stratagem it can think up. But what it leaves you with, finally,
is the lethal reality out of which it was made.  “Where Do We Go Now?” from  Sony Pictures Classics , is
playing in  New York  and  Los Angeles . Rating: ***1/2 (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater
and  Lewis Lapham  on books.  To contact the writers on the story:
Greg Evans  atgregeaevans@yahoo.com .
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 