-- Deutsche Bank Ends Some Asset-Sale Talks With Guggenheim
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-05-11T10:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/deutsche-bank-says-talks-with-guggenheim-to-focus-on-rreef-sale.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  ended talks with
Guggenheim Partners over three of four asset-management units
the German bank sought to sell.  Deutsche Bank and Guggenheim, a U.S.-based investor that
manages $125 billion, agreed to end discussions on a potential
sale of DWS Americas, DB Advisors and Deutsche Insurance  Asset
Management (ADN)  and focus talks on RREEF, a division that invests in
real estate and infrastructure, the Frankfurt-based lender said
today in a  statement . Deutsche Bank will continue to evaluate
the other three businesses, according to the statement.  The curtailed talks may make it harder to sell the affected
divisions and mean Deutsche Bank would generate a “negligible”
capital boost from selling RREEF, according to Andrew Lim, an
analyst with Espirito Santo Investment Bank. Deutsche Bank has
said the asset sales weren’t part of its plan to increase
capital to meet regulatory requirements.  “There are quite a few asset managers up for sale,” said
Lim, who  recommends  investors sell the stock.
“There is not a lot of interest in these businesses.”  A call to Guggenheim before  New York  office hours wasn’t
answered. Deutsche Bank had started a review of the units in
November to assess how regulation and competition are affecting
the businesses.  Shares Fall  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst with  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , said
selling RREEF alone would probably account for less than half
the 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) in proceeds he initially
estimated for a sale of the units.  “The means of boosting the bank’s relatively weak capital
position has been much reduced,” Wheeler said in an e-mail.
“This probably will mean a capital benefit to Deutsche Bank, if
the sale is completed, of around 600 million euros to 750
million euros, rather than the 1.5 billion euros they were
hoping for.”  Deutsche Bank fell 2 percent to 30.60 euros at 11 a.m. in
Frankfurt trading today, the second-biggest decline in  Germany ’s
benchmark DAX index, though it was trading above its level when
it made the announcement. Financial stocks fell today after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said it suffered a $2 billion trading loss.  In February, the German bank chose Guggenheim as the
potential buyer for the DWS mutual funds in the Americas, the
advisory units for institutional investors and insurance firms,
and RREEF. Deutsche Bank has said it plans to keep its DWS
mutual-fund businesses in Europe and  Asia .  Capital Needs  The units under review had a combined 423 billion euros of
assets under management at the end of 2011, of which RREEF
contributed 49 billion euros, according to a presentation the
bank published May 8.  Deutsche Bank reiterated last month that the company can
meet stricter regulatory  capital requirements  that take effect
at the end of the year and that the bank’s “capital toolbox
provides further flexibility.”  The company estimates that so-called risk-weighted assets
will jump by 105 billion euros to 485 billion euros at the end
of 2012 as it applies Basel III capital rules, a presentation
Deutsche Bank published April 26 on its website shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  