-- Dewey Pay Guarantees May Be Worth a Dime on the Dollar
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-05-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/dewey-pay-guarantees-may-be-worth-about-a-dime-on-the-dol.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP partners whose
guaranteed contracts undermined the firm may get about a dime on
the dollar for what they’re owed, no better than the janitors
who cleaned their offices, bankruptcy specialists said.  Vendor claims against Dewey, also known as trade paper, are
currently quoted at 10 cents to 12 cents on the dollar, said
Joseph Sarachek, managing director of claims trading at CRT
Capital Group LLC, which buys and sells distressed debt. The
firm’s partners may even rank below trade and other general
unsecured creditors, said  Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy law
professor at  Seton Hall University  in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  Dewey is a shell of what was once the 11th largest U.S. law
firm. More than 120 partners, including three out of four
remaining co-chairmen, have bolted the firm, and 450 employees
were fired this week. The guaranteed contracts, worth as much as
$6 million a year for a few partners, might rank the same as
equity does in most corporate bankruptcies: at zero.  “It could be argued by other creditors that partners’ pay
is a return of equity,” said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer
with Bingham Greenebaum Doll LLP in Louisville,  Kentucky . That
would demote Dewey’s partners below trade creditors, he said.  Yesterday, the firm was sued by a unit of ABM Industries,
the company that provided janitorial services at Dewey’s offices
at 1301 Avenue of the Americas in  Manhattan , for about $300,000
in unpaid bills, according to a complaint filed in New York
State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  Employee Lawsuit  On May 10, the firm was sued by an employee over claims it
was terminating workers without giving them the notice required
by federal law. Workers received a termination notice on or
about May 7, according to the complaint filed in federal court
in Manhattan by Vittoria Conn. Workers should have been given 60
days notice, Conn Said.  Two spokesman for the firm, Angelo Kakolyris and  Michael Sitrick , didn’t return messages seeking comment on those
filings.  The firm’s lenders, including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Citigroup Inc., and its bondholders might recover only about
half their money in a liquidation, based on trading prices and
estimates of how much the firm has to pay its debts. Dewey’s
banks and bondholders rank equal in payment priority, according
to a 2010 bond memorandum obtained by Bloomberg.  Bond Prices  Dewey’s privately placed bonds, which trade sparsely, were
quoted at 45 cents to 55 cents on the dollar earlier this month,
according to a May 3 report by CRT, which trades Dewey debt. The
 law firm  has drawn $75 million of its bank credit line and owes
$125 million or more to bondholders after the 2010 refinancing
of older bank debt.  The law firm’s bills to clients, which it has been
collecting to pay lenders, might fetch only about $90 million,
or 40 percent of their nominal value, estimated Bruce MacEwen, a
lawyer and law-firm consultant through his company  Adam Smith ,
Esq. LLC.  “On a reasonable estimate, they don’t have enough to pay
their hard debts,” MacEwan said. Law firm receivables are never
worth 100 cents on the dollar and take a “severe haircut” when
a firm is failing, he said.  Law firms’ main assets are the bills that partners mail to
clients, office leases and sometimes art on the walls. Dewey’s
bills are security for its bank loans, according to a person
familiar with the firm’s finances.  Private Bank  Dan DiPietro, chairman of the law firm group at Citi
 Private Bank , referred questions on Citigroup’s loans to Dewey
to JPMorgan.  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined
to comment.  Dewey partners, who were getting less pay than expected as
profit fell, learned at a partnership meeting in Manhattan that
the firm had struck special deals with some partners who would
have to be paid before others, according to a person familiar
with those events.  Steven Davis , the law firm’s former chairman, said at the
October meeting that the special deals -- requiring Dewey to
defer pay for most partners -- involved about 100 lawyers, the
person said. Pay at the firm ranged from about $300,000 for
junior partners to as much as $6 million for a handful of top
lawyers, the person said, declining to be named as he wasn’t
authorized to comment on these matters.  Davis’s lawyer, Barry Bohrer, declined to comment on
Davis’s handling of the information about pay.  Davis Ousted  Formerly sole chairman, Davis was ousted from a newly
formed five-man chairman’s office on April 29 after Manhattan
District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. started a probe into possible
wrongdoing at Dewey, according to an internal Dewey memo on
April 29 to partners that was obtained by Bloomberg.  Bohrer, a criminal defense lawyer at Morvillo, Abramowitz,
Grand, Iason, Anello & Bohrer, has said Davis believes “fair-
minded professionals will conclude that he engaged in no
misconduct.”  The new chairman’s office, which announced March 26 that it
would bring “hands-on” management to the firm, lasted six
weeks. Yesterday, Proskauer Rose LLP said Dewey’s restructuring
group head  Martin Bienenstock  would join the firm with five
colleagues. Bienenstock was the third of the remaining four co-
chairmen to leave, after Rich Shutran, head of the corporate
department, was hired by  O’Melveny & Myers LLP  and  Jeffrey Kessler , head of litigation, left for Winston & Strawn LLP.  “They’re voting with their feet,” Bowles said. “That
tells you their plan didn’t work very well.”  The former Dewey Ballantine and LeBoeuf Lamb Greene &
MacRae merged in October 2007 to form what was then the 11th-
largest U.S. law firm, now ranked 28th by American Lawyer after
revising revenue downward and losing more than 120 partners.  The vendor case is ABM Janitorial Services v. Dewey &
LeBoeuf, 651645/2012,  New York  State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  