-- Dutch Pension Funds Oppose in Views on Italian, Spanish Debt
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   D u n b a r   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-05-11T15:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/dutch-pension-funds-oppose-in-views-on-italian-spanish-debt-1-.html
The two biggest Dutch pension funds
have opposite views on Italian and Spanish bonds, with one
owning 10 billion euros ($12.9 billion) of the securities and
the other cutting all of its holdings.  The nation’s largest retirement fund, Stichting
Pensioenfonds ABP, predicts the region will recover from its
debt crisis, while its best-performing investments last quarter
were Italian bonds, according to Ronald Wuijster, head of  asset
allocation  at APG Groep NV, which manages ABP’s assets. The
second biggest,  Pensioen Fonds Zorg en Welzijn , or PFZW, sold
the last of its Italian  government securities  in 2011.  Euro-area economies will “muddle through” the current
debt-market turmoil, Amsterdam-based Wuijster said in a
telephone interview. ABP may change its euro-area asset
allocation if the crisis worsens, he added.  Italian bonds returned 11 percent in the first quarter,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. They have since
fallen 1 percent. Spanish securities gained 1 percent in the
first three months of the year, before dropping 2.8 percent
since April 1.  A large part of ABP’s holdings of southern European bonds
are inflation-linked, Wuijster said, adding that the market is
dominated by  Italy  and  France .  “There is the consideration of inflation hedging, there is
the consideration of valuations and there is the consideration
of benchmarks,” Wuijster said. “Those combined lead to still
substantial positions.”  Portfolios Increase  The two pension funds built up their portfolios of southern
European bonds after the euro area was created in 1999, when
they started to follow benchmark indexes based on market
capitalization. This choice tilted their portfolios toward
countries with the highest outstanding debt, namely Italy,
France and Greece.  By the end of 2009, ABP held 2.34 billion euros of Greek
 government bonds , 9.63 billion euros of Italian debt and 10.41
billion euros of French securities, according to data from the
fund. PFZW owned 524 million euros in  Greece , 2.73 billion euros
of Italy and 6.29 billion euros in France. Their holdings have
since diverged.  ABP’s holdings of Italian bonds peaked at 10.33 billion
euros in 2010. The fund reduced that amount to 7.69 billion
euros at the end of 2011.  “We weren’t aware that credit risk was such an issue when
we bought these bonds,” Wuijster said.  French Bonds  PFZW sold all its Greek, Spanish, Irish and Portuguese
holdings in 2010, and its Italian bonds in 2011.  From 2009, “markets told you that the exposure to the
peripherals was not considered to be risk free, therefore they
didn’t meet the criteria for inclusion in our matching
portfolio,” said Bob Raedecker, chief investment officer for
public markets at PGGM NV, which manages PFZW’s assets and is
based in Zeist, the Netherlands.  While some pension funds, such as  Denmark ’s ATP, reduced
holdings of French debt and refused to accept the country’s
bonds as collateral, ABP and PZFW stayed invested in France,
with year-end positions in French sovereign bonds of 13.49
billion euros and 3.8 billion euros respectively.  “We see France as being one of the core countries in
 Europe ,” Raedecker said. ABP also considers France to be a core
country, Wuijster said.  Protecting Assets  Rather than aim for investment returns, European sovereign
bonds serve to protect clients’ assets against interest-rate
risks and provide a source of liquidity, Raedecker said.  The Netherlands has mandatory  retirement plans  contributed
to by employers and workers in addition to state pensions.
Government workers’ and teachers’ fund ABP had 261 billion euros
in assets at the end of the first quarter, while PFZW oversees
116 billion euros for health-care and welfare workers.  The funds, which have to value their liabilities using euro
swaps, have struggled to meet capital buffer requirements as
 interest rates  are low, even as their assets had positive
returns since 2009.  ABP had a coverage ratio of 95 percent at the end of March,
indicating obligations exceed their assets. For PFZW, the ratio
stood at 96 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Dunbar in London at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  