-- The One Thing Jamie Dimon Got Right This Week
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-05-11T15:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/the-one-thing-jamie-dimon-got-right-this-week.html
About two-thirds the way through
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon’s
stunning May 10 conference call, in which he announced that the
hedging strategy originating in the firm’s vaunted “chief
investment office” had cost the firm $2 billion, he seemed to
hit his stride.  “It is very unfortunate,” he said, “this plays right into
the hands of pundits out there. But we have to deal with it.”  Well, Jamie, as a former JPMorgan Chase managing director
turned Wall Street pundit, here you go: The problem with the
unexpected loss and its hasty announcement was not so much the
sheer magnitude of the losses -- a firm with a trillion-dollar
balance sheet can withstand them --  but that for weeks you and
your fellow senior executives have been pooh-poohing the risks
posed by the huge proprietary bets being made by your bank’s
Bruno Michel Iksil (aka. the London Whale).  After Bloomberg News revealed the extent of the gambling
that was going on in JPMorgan’s London office on April 5, Dimon
called it a “complete tempest in a teapot” and heaped scorn on
the journalists who revealed the extent of the bet and how it
was roiling debt markets throughout the world. The firm’s chief
financial officer, Doug Braunstein -- my onetime boss, who fired
me in 2004 -- told the press on April 13 that the chief
investment office “balances our risks. They hedge against
downside risk, that’s the nature of protecting that balance
sheet.” Braunstein added that he was “very comfortable with the
positions we have” and that all of the positions are “very long
term in nature.”  What’s worse, in February, during the company’s annual
investor day, Dimon further belittled the journalists in
attendance by mocking their questions about Wall Street’s
inordinately high compensation structure, whereby -- generally
speaking -- 40 percent to 50 percent of every dollar of revenue
generated goes to the employees who work there. At
JPMorganChase, the compensation expense ratio in 2011 was around
35 percent, while at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley
it was higher -- in the 50 percent range -- and at  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) ,
it was 63 percent.  Why Wall Street feels the need to pay the people who work
there so much money is the question of the moment. Whom do these
firms serve? The shareholders who own them, or the employees who
work there? For far too long, the answer has been -- sadly --
the bankers. Why don’t Dimon and his fellow industry leaders
understand that the less that gets paid out to employees, the
more that goes to the bottom line?  But Dimon would have none of it, at least during the
investor day conference on Feb. 29. He even thought it would be
funny to dig out a comparable statistic from a newspaper company
and found one that showed that journalists’ compensation had
eaten up 42 percent of the paper’s revenue. That’s “damned
outrageous,” he said. “Worse than that, you don’t even make any
money! We pay 35 percent. We make a lot of money.” He’s right
about that. In 2011, JPMorgan made $19 billion in profit. Dimon
received compensation of $23 million.  Dimon at least had the good sense to sound a note of
contrition yesterday. He said the firm’s new “value-at-risk”
model had proved inadequate and the company was going back to
using an older model. He said the money-losing trade was
“flawed, complex, poorly reviewed, poorly executed and poorly
monitored.” He said it was “sloppy” and that “all appropriate”
measures would be taken. He said there were “egregious mistakes”
made and that the wound “was self-inflicted.” Before he answered
questions, he said, “We will admit it, we will learn from it, we
will fix it and move on.”  In answer to a question about whether the hedge, or the
bet, violated the so-called Volcker rule -- which if it ever
gets put in place will limit the amount of proprietary trading
Wall Street firms can do -- Dimon said, “This doesn’t violate
the Volker Rule, but it violates the Dimon Principle.” To
whether he knew of any other big banks with a similar loss, he
said, “Just because we were stupid doesn’t mean everybody else
was.” He was asked by Mike Mayo, a respected banking analyst,
what, in hindsight, he should have watched more closely.
“Trading losses,” he replied, before adding, “newspapers.”  Until this moment,  Jamie Dimon  has been Teflon. He has
boasted about his firm’s “fortress balance sheet” and about how
his skills as a risk-manager were far superior to those at other
Wall Street firms. He has no doubt enjoyed Goldman Sachs and its
chief executive officer,  Lloyd Blankfein , becoming the objects
of public scorn -- even though this incident proves that Goldman
Sachs is the far superior risk manager. Dimon has been quick to
remind people that the federal government chose his firm to
rescue both Bear Stearns Cos. and Washington Mutual Inc. He has
criticized the new, post-financial-crisis regulations -- Basel
III, Dodd-Frank, the Volcker rule and the new rules governing
derivatives -- as being Draconian. He has whined that the time
to criticize Wall Street has come and gone.  Now he has been proven right about one thing: He has given
the pundits (and politicians) a gift. “The enormous loss
JPMorgan announced today is just the latest evidence that what
banks call ‘hedges’ are often risky bets that so-called too-big-
to-fail banks have no business making,” Senator  Carl Levin , a
Democrat of  Michigan , told Bloomberg News after Dimon’s press
conference. “Today’s announcement is a stark reminder of the
need for regulators to establish tough, effective standards.”  Not a moment too soon.  (William D. Cohan , a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 