-- Heart Procedure More Effective Than Drug for Erratic Rate
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-05-11T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/heart-procedure-more-effective-than-drug-for-erratic-rate.html
A procedure that destroys part of the
cardiac tissue responsible for the most common type of heart
rhythm disorder is more effective than drug therapy at keeping
the erratic rate in check, a study found.  The results presented at the  Heart Rhythm Society  meeting
in  Boston  suggest the approach known as cardiac ablation should
be considered as an initial treatment for atrial fibrillation,
said lead researcher Carlos Morillo from Hamilton Health
Sciences-McMaster University in  Canada . It’s now used for
patients who don’t benefit from standard drug therapy, he said.  The study followed 127 patients with paroxysmal  atrial
fibrillation , where the heart’s two upper chambers beat out of
synch with the bottom chambers in bouts that typically resolve
on their own. After two years, 52 percent of patients getting
the ablation procedure had a recurrence, compared with 72
percent of those on drugs. Side effects were also less common
with ablation, Morillo said in a telephone interview.  “The patients that received the ablation had a marked
reduction in atrial fibrillation,” he said. “It’s definitely
superior to antiarrhythmic drugs. This study supports the notion
that the earlier you intervene with ablation that’s superior,
the better the result.”  Still Needed  Drug therapy will continue to be necessary for many
patients because of the recurrences, Morillo said. The study
drugs included  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Multaq and older medicines that are now
available in generic forms, including amiodarone, flecainide and
propafenone.  More than 2.6 million Americans have atrial fibrillation,
and the number is  expected to soar  to 12 million by 2050,
according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in
Atlanta. The condition can cause chronic fatigue and shortness
of breath, and may make patients more vulnerable to heart
failure and stroke.  While the results show ablation is more beneficial than
drug therapy, it does carry rare and deadly risks, said Hugh
Calkins, director of electrophysiology of Johns Hopkins Medicine
at the university in Baltimore.  Drug  therapy is easy to give and
it’s generally clear within a couple of weeks if it will work,
he said.  Ablation techniques and tools are improving, said Calkins,
the president-elect of the Heart Rhythm Society, in a telephone
interview.  “I don’t think one small study is enough to suggest
catheter ablation should be performed before drug therapy in all
patients,” he said. “Patient preference is key.”  The study was funded by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Biosense
Webster division, which sells catheters used to treat atrial
fibrillation. The ablation catheters or devices used with them
are also sold by companies including St. Jude Medical Inc.,
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  and  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  