-- Lebanon Central Bank’s Salameh Comments on Economy, Debt, Syria
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-05-11T16:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/lebanon-central-bank-s-salameh-comments-on-economy-debt-syria.html
Lebanese Central Bank Governor Riad Salameh discusses the exposure of the country’s banks to
government debt as well as the latest efforts to insulate the
lenders from a crisis in neighboring Syria.  He spoke in an interview today at his office in  Beirut .  On economic growth:  “The indicators are showing that the real growth could be
between 3 percent and 3.5 percent, which is in line with the
estimates of the IMF. We have seen an improvement in the
consumer sector. We have seen hotel occupancy at over 66 percent
and an improvement by 10 percent in the activity of the Beirut
airport.”  “Last year, the growth in that period was around zero
percent for the first quarter and it was essentially related to
the political situation in Lebanon as we had a change in
government and the new government was not constituted yet.”  On the effect of unrest in  Syria  on Lebanon’s economy:  “The softness that we’re seeing this year is related to
the activity that is outside of Beirut because the Syrian crisis
has negatively impacted the activity in the region. Tourism by
way of land has been hit, and transit activity has also been
hurt because the cost of transit and insurance has increased.”  On bank provisions against unrest in Syria:  “Banks have constituted general provisions already, and
that explains why you don’t see an important growth in the
profits of banks. We don’t expect any surprise on our banks from
the economic crisis in Syria. Over and above we have seen a
reduction in the exposure of Lebanese banks to Syrian businesses
either from here or from Syria by 40 percent during the past 15
months.”  On limiting transactions with Syrian banks based on a circular
issued April 5:  “The Lebanese banks will not deal with institutions or
persons that are on the sanction list in  Europe , the U.S. or the
 Arab League . Syrians are free to open bank accounts in Lebanon
as they are free to open all over the world. But the banks here
will refrain to open for those on the sanction list.”  On the government raising yields on treasury bills this year by
half a percentage point:  “That is in our markets a mild correction. That correction
was needed to allow the banks to maintain stability in the
deposit rates, not to increase them.”  “The IMF had recommended such an improvement in order to
allow the auctions to be served by the market and to decrease
the intervention of the central bank in these auctions. The
results were good because we are seeing increased bidding on the
Lebanese treasury bill auctions, the weekly auctions were seeing
surpluses even.”  “The attraction on the Lebanese sovereign can be measured
also by the success of the Eurobond issue that was launched
lately by the government. It was three times oversubscribed. The
 interest rates  that Lebanon is today working with are still at a
historical low. Don’t forget that Lebanon is also positioned
today geographically where you have trouble in the Mediterranean
countries and trouble in the Arab world. So being able to
maintain by market forces this level of rates proves that there
is confidence in the financial system.”  On deposit growth in Lebanese banks so far this year:  “At an annual base it’s 8 percent or a little bit more,
that’s annualized for 2012. If the situation remains stable,
even with the political atmosphere we’re having, we might head
toward 9 percent. In 2011, the increase was 8 percent also. The
total deposits are presently at $122 billion.”  On credit growth:  “The annualized estimate, according to the first quarter,
will reach 13 percent increase in credit growth this year. Last
year there was an increase of more than 12 percent.”  “The banks have developed a lot of lending in the sector
of housing and this was successful. The consumer loans excluding
housing also are growing at a good pace. We are seeing also some
funding done to big projects in the country that are between
real estate and tourism. We’re not worried about a bubble
because we have a circular saying that they cannot lend more
than 60 percent of the value for a project.”  On dollarization in the banking system:  “Dollarization is back to 65 percent after hitting 66
percent last year. We have seen during the first four months
movement of de-dollarization and the central bank intervened to
buy dollars. We bought $900 million from the market during these
four months this year.”  “We are committed to a band whereby we allow the Lebanese
pound to fluctuate between 1,501 and 1,514 per dollar. When we
get to 1,501, if we want to maintain that floor we have to buy
the excess dollars that are in the market. We had more offers of
dollars than the market needed by $900 million dollars in these
four months, which we took into our reserves.”  On total liquid assets in foreign currency:  “Today our total liquid assets in foreign currency amount
to over $32 billion. This doesn’t include the stock of gold,
which is evaluated at $16 billion, and it doesn’t include also
other assets that the central bank owns, like shares in
companies and real estate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  