-- Mechel Ready to Drop IPO Plan Should Asset Strategy Raise Funds
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-05-11T13:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/mechel-ready-to-drop-ipo-plan-should-asset-strategy-raise-funds.html
OAO Mechel (MTL)  is ready to drop proposals
for a  London  or New York initial public offering for its mining
unit should the company raise enough money from a plan to boost
returns, including possible asset sales, to finance projects.  “We don’t expect a Mechel-Mining IPO this year due to
market volatility,” Stanislav Ploschenko, chief financial
officer of  Russia ’s largest producer of steelmaking coal, said
today in an interview in Moscow. “We also may not sell the
stake at all should our new strategy be successful and we are
able to fund the mining division’s projects without an IPO.”  Mechel’s board yesterday approved a plan to cut the debt of
Russia’s most leveraged company, partly by selling assets. The
company’s net debt surged 33 percent last year to $9.3 billion,
while its proposal to sell $2 billion of Mechel-Mining shares in
London was postponed in September because of weak markets.  Mechel (MTLR) , which has the world’s second-largest coking coal
reserves, will focus on mining, steelmaking -- particularly for
construction -- and products such as specialty and stainless
steel where it’s the top Russian producer, Ploschenko said.  Other assets will be audited for their profitability and
investment needs within two to three months, with a possibility
“certain divestment could happen this year,” he said. It’s too
early to say how much money might be raised, the CFO said.  “It doesn’t mean we will necessarily sell entire business
divisions like the ferroalloys business or our power assets,”
Ploschenko said. The ferroalloys division supplies steel units
with ferrosilicon, and stainless steel operations with chrome
and nickel, while secure power is also important, he said.  Romanian Steel  Asked whether Mechel planned to offload its Romanian steel
plants, Ploschenko said that while their low profitability makes
them “more obvious candidates,” he couldn’t confirm a sale.  Power operations including  Bulgaria ’s Toplofikatsia Rousse
and the ferroalloys business of Mechel’s Oriel Resources unit
are the most obvious candidates to sell, said Dmitry Smolin, a
Uralsib Capital analyst. While steel plants in  Romania  may be
considered, it would be hard to find a buyer, he said.  Mechel doesn’t plan to sell its trading operations as their
distribution network allows the company to respond more quickly
to the market and reduce volatility in sales, Ploschenko said.
Concerns the business requires funding for working capital are
exaggerated. “We can also return cash when needed by selling
stockpiles, which is exactly what we’re doing now,” he said.  Should the company decide to continue with the IPO plans,
“the two obvious candidates for a listing venue would be either
London or  New York ,” Ploschenko said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  