-- Mechel to Gain Estar Steel Mills If $945 Million Loan Unpaid
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-05-11T09:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/mechel-to-gain-estar-steel-mills-if-945-million-loan-unpaid.html
OAO Mechel (MTL) , a Russian steel and coal
producer, may end up taking control of as many as nine steel
mills if Estar Group doesn’t repay a $945 million bank loan by
the end of September.  In 2009 and 2010,  Mechel (MTLR)  entered into a commercial
agreement with 11 Estar steel mills which “were subjected to
bankruptcy procedures and other demands from their creditors,”
according to a regulatory filing today. Mechel agreed to supply
raw materials to the mills and sell their products. Last year,
Mechel acquired two of them, Invicta Merchant Bar in the U.K.
and the Donetsk Electrometallurgical Plant in Ukraine.  In November, Estar restructured $945 million of debt owed
to Mechel into a  bank loan  guaranteed by the mining company, the
filing showed. Should Estar fail to repay its loan by Sept. 30
and the bank forecloses on the collateral, Mechel “will be
entitled to enforce the pledge of shares in major related
metallurgical plants,” the filing states.  Estar Group was formed in 2005 by Russian entrepreneur
Vadim Varshavsky and his partners. It purchased second-tier
steel and pipe mills in Russia and started building mini-mills
at home and abroad. The company, which borrowed extensively to
fund expansion, faced problems after the financial crisis broke
in 2008 and its Russian mills filed for  bankruptcy protection  a
year later.  Estar has seven small steel mills in Russia with capacity
to produce 2.7 million tons of rolled steel, Mechel said. Mechel
produced 6.12 million tons of steel last year. Estar also owns
steel mills in  Egypt  and the U.K., a Swiss trading company as
well as as one  coal mine  and a power station in Russia. Mechel
representatives are present in the management and board of
directors of Estar’s companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  