-- Telefonica Profit Falls With Europe Dwarfed by Latin America
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-05-11T07:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/telefonica-profit-misses-estimates-on-spanish-customer-losses.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  reported first-quarter
profit that missed analyst estimates after losing customers in
its home market to discounters, with Latin American earnings
surpassing  Europe  for the first time.  Operating income before depreciation and amortization, or
Oibda, dropped 8.8 percent to 5.08 billion euros ($6.6 billion),
 Spain ’s biggest phone company said in a statement today.
Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had predicted 5.23 billion euros.
The stock declined as much as 3.3 percent.  As Spain struggles to emerge from its worst economic crisis
in decades, Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta needs to boost
Telefonica’s Latin American business because customers in the
company’s home market switch to cheaper rivals including  Jazztel
Plc (JAZ)  and  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s Yoigo. Madrid-based Telefonica said
today that first-quarter Oibda in Spain fell 14 percent while
European earnings slumped 15 percent.  “Results were very weak,” Andres Bolumburu, an analyst at
 Banco de Sabadell , said via phone today. “The performance in
Europe was very poor this quarter, especially in the U.K., while
Spain continues its decline and  Latin America  provides positive
growth overall.”  Telefonica shares dropped as much as 37.5 cents to 10.95
euros in Madrid and were down 2.7 percent as of 9:05 a.m. The
stock had dropped 15 percent this year before today, compared
with a 2.9 percent decline of the 34-member Bloomberg Europe
Telecommunication Services Index.  Revamp  The CEO in December cut Telefonica’s  dividend  forecasts by
14 percent, the first reduction in a decade. He announced 6,500
job cuts last year and has halted major acquisitions. At the
same time he has sold non-core assets including a stake in
satellite company Hispasat.  Today’s earnings show how the Spanish operator is lagging
behind other European rivals.  Deutsche Telekom AG, Europe’s second-largest telephone
company, yesterday reported earnings that beat analysts’
estimates as a decline in European revenue slowed and the T-
Mobile USA unit boosted profitability. Telecom Italia SpA,
Italy’s largest phone company, this week said first-quarter
profit rose 10 percent, beating analyst estimates, helped by
growth in Brazil and Argentina.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  is scheduled
to report earnings for the year ending March 31 on May 22.  Italian Writedown  In Latin America, with markets including Brazil and Chile,
Telefonica’s Oibda rose 0.8 percent to 2.55 billion euros. That
compares with an Oibda decline of 15 percent to 2.51 billion
euros at Telefonica’s European division.  In September, Alierta folded Telefonica’s domestic unit
into its European division and shuffled regional chiefs, putting
Jose Maria Alvarez-Pallete in charge of Europe and giving
Santiago Fernandez Valbuena responsibility for Latin America.  Telefonica’s net income fell 54 percent to 748 million
euros. Earnings were hit by a 337 million-euro after-tax charge
for a writedown of the company’s indirect 10.5 percent stake in
 Telecom Italia SpA. (TIT)   Alierta has repeatedly said he’s comfortable with
Telefonica’s Telecom Italia holding. He told investors in April
last year that the alliance with the Italian operator would
generate 1.5 billion euros in cost savings from joint purchasing
of handsets and phone-network equipment for the three years
through 2013, compared with 1.3 billion euros for the previous
three years.  Declining Profitability  Telefonica,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  and
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  together own 22.4 percent of Milan-based
Telecom Italia through holding company Telco SpA, which values
the operator at 1.50 euros a share. Telecom Italia, which
yesterday closed at 84.2 euro cents, has been trading below that
level since 2008.  The company today reiterated its full-year forecasts.
Telefonica said in February that its profit margin will continue
to drop this year, although at a slower rate. In the first-
quarter, the profit margin based on Oibda declined by 3.4
percentage points to 32.8 percent.  Alierta has said Telefonica won’t pull out from other
European countries including  Germany , the U.K. or the Czech
Republic. He said last year that outperforming rivals in these
markets is one of his top strategic priorities in addition to
tapping the industry’s growth in Latin America.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  