-- Emerging Stocks Drop, Head for Biggest Weekly Loss Since
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-05-11T22:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/emerging-stocks-drop-head-for-biggest-weekly-loss-since.html
Emerging-market stocks posted the
largest weekly loss since November, as Chinese and Indian
production data and a $2 billion JPMorgan Chase & Co. trading
loss spurred concern global growth will falter.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 1 percent to 971.01 at
the close in  New York  to push its weakly retreat to 4.1 percent,
the most since the week ended Nov. 25. Energy, industrial and
information technology companies led decliners for the five days
as  China Shipping Container Lines Co Ltd. (2866)  plunged 20 percent.
OAO MRSK Holding, the Russian state-run power distributor, slid
for a sixth week.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  retreated 2.3 percent.  Chinese  industrial output  increased 9.3 percent in April
from a year earlier, lower than the 12.2 percent median estimate
of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. In  India , production
declined 3.5 percent from a year earlier, less than the 1.7
percent gain projected by analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The
U.S. producer price index dropped 0.2 percent in April, the
first decline in four months. JPMorgan said “egregious
mistakes” and “sloppiness” caused losses for the firm.  “It’s been a rough month and a half for emerging-market
equities and a lot of that has to do with continued concerns out
of  Europe  and slower-paced economic data out of the U.S. and the
emerging-market world,”  Tim Hall , who manages about $700
million at Deltec Asset Management, said by phone from New York.
“Then you have the JPMorgan incident and that’s a wet rag on an
already pessimistic market.”  The ‘Worst Flows’  The developing-nations gauge declined for an eighth
straight week to its longest weekly losing streak since 2008.
The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index has fallen 10 percent from this
year’s March 2 high.  The index trades at 10.2 times estimated earnings and has
added 6 percent this year, compared with the 12.1 multiple for
the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of advanced nations, which has added 5.1
percent in 2012.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  most-traded ETF  tracking developing-nation shares,
fell 3.4 percent during the week to $39.97.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, gained 9.4 percent to 29.11.  Emerging-market equity funds posted outflows of $1.1
billion in the week ended May 9 on renewed concerns about Europe
and Chinese growth, Citigroup Inc. analysts led by  Markus Rosgen 
wrote in a report today, citing data compiled by EPFR Global.
The “worst flows” were from the Central and Eastern Europe,
 Middle East  and Africa region, while Asia ex-Japan had outflows
of $81 million.  Brazil’s Bovespa  Brazil’s Bovespa benchmark gauge fell for a third week.
 Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes 
retreated 5.3 percent and was among leading decliners for the
week.  MRSK Holding fell 9.2 percent in Moscow following an
Interfax report that it may be transferred under the management
of Federal Grid Co., which dropped 8.9 percent. Energy Ministry
spokesman Dmitry Klokov did not immediately return calls seeking
comment, while MRSK’s press service didn’t respond to an e-
mailed request.  Russia ’s Micex Index grew 0.4 percent, its first five-day
gain in three weeks. OAO Novatek, Russia’s second-biggest
natural-gas producer, reported first-quarter profit increased 13
percent as output and the price of the fuel rose. Shares of the
company grew 4.9 percent in the past week, and was among leading
stocks in the  Micex Index. (INDEXCF)   Asian Stocks  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , a gauge of Chinese
companies traded in  Hong Kong , plunged 6.8 percent, the biggest
weekly  loss  since September.  South Korea’s Kospi index and Taiwan’s Taiex Index both
fell more than 3 percent during the week.  Agora SA (AGO) , Poland’s largest publicly-traded publisher,
reported a net loss in the first quarter. The company’s shares
retreated 2.8 percent for the week. The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  fell 1.4
percent to a second weekly decline.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index fell 0.3 percent as
 Anglo American Plc (AGL) , a diversified mining company, fell 0.9
percent.  BHP Billiton (BIL) , the world’s biggest resources company,
dropped 0.3 percent. South Africa’s rand retreated 3.3 percent
against the dollar.  “Industrial production for emerging nations is declining
faster than expected amid the slackening global demand
environment,” Aneesh Srivastava, who oversees about $470
million as chief investment officer at IDBI Federal Life
Insurance Co. in Mumbai, said by phone.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, declined 3.2
percent, the biggest weekly decline this year.  Maruti Suzuki
India (MSIL) , the country’s biggest carmaker, tumbled 3.6 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage points, to 361, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  