-- Eni Probe Won’t Hurt Kashagan Oil Project, Kazakh Ministry Says
-- B y   S v e t l a n a   A n t o n c h e v a
-- 2012-05-11T12:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/eni-probe-won-t-hurt-kashagan-oil-project-kazakh-ministry-says.html
An Italian probe of  Eni SpA (ENI) ’s
activities in  Kazakhstan  won’t hurt the development of the
central Asian country’s biggest oil field, according to Kanatbek
Safinov, an official at the Oil and Gas Ministry.  “This will not have an influence” on the Kashagan oil
development, Safinov told reporters today in the capital,
Astana. “The country’s going to develop this project.”  The Kashagan partners, including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
Exxon Mobil Corp. and Total SA as well as Eni and Kazakhstan’s
KazMunaiGaz National Co., plan to start output at the Caspian
Sea field by the end of 2012 or the middle of next year, after
years of delays and a budget that swelled to $39 billion. The
government is pushing for an expansion of the project, which
Kazakh President  Nursultan Nazarbayev  has said would help turn
the country into one of the world’s five largest oil exporters.  Eni, through its Agip KCO unit, is responsible for
operating Kashagan until the first oil is produced. The company
agreed to relinquish its role as sole operator in 2008 amid a
dispute between the partners and the Kazakh government that
ended with the state increasing its stake and gaining higher
royalties. Shell and KazMunaiGaz will be in charge of production
operations, while North Caspian Operating Co., a venture between
the partners known as NCOC, oversees the project, according to
the venture’s  website .  The Milan prosecutor is seeking court administration for
Agip KCO or a ban on its negotiating contracts in Kazakhstan,
amid a probe into “international corruption,”  Corriere della
Sera  reported yesterday. A hearing is scheduled for May 29, the
newspaper said. An Eni spokesman who declined to be identified,
citing company policy, declined to comment when called by
Bloomberg News yesterday.  The investigation relates to 2004-2005 and Eni has
cooperated with prosecutors since 2009, Ansa news service
reported, citing Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  yesterday
in  Rome . Scaroni said he’s “calm,” Ansa reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svetlana Antoncheva in Astana, Kazakhstan at 
 santoncheva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  