-- EON Said to Select Macquarie as Buyer of $4 Billion Gas Grid
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-05-11T12:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/eon-said-to-select-macquarie-as-buyer-of-4-billion-gas-grid-1-.html
EON AG, Germany’s largest utility,
selected a group led by  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  to buy a network of
natural-gas pipelines in the country, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  The sale of Open Grid Europe distribution network may get
about 3.1 billion euros ($4 billion), the person said, declining
to be named before the agreement is completed. Dow Jones
reported earlier today that EON selected a Macquarie-led group
that also includes the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and German
reinsurer Munich Re as the buyer.  Carsten Thomsen-Bendixen, an EON spokesman, declined to
comment when contacted by phone today. Macquarie spokeswoman
 Karen Smith  also declined to comment.  EON is seeking to raise cash through a 15 billion-euro
asset-sales program after the Fukushima disaster in Japan
prompted German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to call for the
permanent halt of all the country’s nuclear reactors by 2022.
The first phase of shutdowns cut EON’s earnings by 2.5 billion
euros in 2011.  “If the price is confirmed, then that’s good news for EON
as the market had floated about 2 billion euros in the past,”
Peter Wirtz, an analyst with WestLB AG, said today by phone from
Dusseldorf. “Selecting Macquarie makes sense as choosing GDF
Suez or Fluxys would mean EON would invite competition into its
own backyard.”  CNP Assurances (CNP)  SA Chief Financial Officer Antoine Lissowski
today said the French insurer is siding with GDF Suez SA and the
IFM Australian Infrastructure Fund in bidding for Open Grid
Europe, confirming an earlier report by  Les Echos .  Fluxys (FLUXN)  SA,
majority owner of the Belgian grid, leads another bidding group,
the newspaper said.  Open Grid Europe operates about 12,000 kilometers (7,450
miles) of gas transmission pipes in Germany, according to its
website. Funds managed by Macquarie Infrastructure and Real
Assets completed the purchase of RWE AG’s German gas grid unit
in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  