-- EPA Says Water Near Pennsylvania Frack Site Safe to Drink
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-05-11T20:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/epa-says-water-near-pennsylvania-frack-site-safe-to-drink.html
Tests of water wells in Dimock,
 Pennsylvania , found none with unsafe levels of contamination
tied to hydraulic fracturing, the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency said after a final round of testing.  The agency, responding to complaints from homeowners about
murky water and water that could be ignited, tested 61 wells. In
results released today, it found none of the wells had
contamination exceeding federal safe drinking-water standards.
Results at one home had elevated levels of methane, according to
the  agency , which doesn’t set maximum limits for the gas.  The EPA, which completed four rounds of tests in Dimock,
said it will re-test four wells where earlier results had found
contaminants that were a health risk.  Dimock, where actor  Mark Ruffalo  delivered bottled water to
residents last year, has become a closely watched community
after residents said water was harmed by nearby fracturing, or
fracking, by  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG)  In fracking, water, sand and
chemicals are injected into deep shale formations to crack the
rock and free trapped natural gas.  “Cabot is pleased that EPA has now reached the same
conclusion of Cabot and state and local authorities resulting
from the collection of more than 10,000 pages of hard data --
that the water in Dimock meets all regulatory standards,”
George Stark, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.
Contaminants found in the water occur naturally and are not tied
to gas drilling, he said.  Methane Levels  Results from the first 11 wells the EPA tested found one
with a methane level of 52 parts per million, which could be
explosive, and at least three where methane exceeded the state
standard of 7 parts per million. The agency says methane doesn’t
impair the smell, taste or color of water, and the U.S. doesn’t
set a limit on the gas’s levels.  The EPA found traces of barium, arsenic, oil and manganese,
which can be harmful even at low doses, said Ana Tinsly, a
spokeswoman for Water Defense, a New York-based group
campaigning against fracking.  “EPA’s own tests have already vindicated the long-standing
allegations of water contamination and clearly shows that the
water of the affected residents is unfit for human
consumption,” Tinsly said.  One third of the wells tested have elevated methane levels.  Methane, the key constituent of natural gas, and fracking
gained prominence after a scene in the Academy Award-nominated
documentary “Gasland” in which a resident near a gas-drilling
site in  Colorado  ignited the water coming out of a tap. State
officials later issued a report saying that the gas was not
linked to drilling.  Separately, residents of Dimock suing Cabot are now in
settlement talks with the company, said Tate Kunkle, the
residents’ lawyer. He declined to provide further information
about those talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  