-- Terrorist Label Sought for Pakistan-Based Haqqani Network
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-05-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/terrorist-label-sought-for-pakistan-based-haqqani-network.html
Republican and Democratic lawmakers
are urging U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  to designate
a militant group behind attacks on NATO forces in Afghanistan as
a “foreign terrorist organization,” an action which might
further strain U.S. relations with Pakistan.  The lawmakers are seeking the terrorist designation for the
Haqqani network, which President  Barack Obama ’s former top
military adviser, Admiral Mike Mullen, last September testified
“acts as a veritable arm” of Pakistan’s intelligence services.  Nuclear-armed Pakistan sees the Haqqanis as a tool for
protecting its interests in Afghanistan after U.S. troops
withdraw, say analysts such as  Lisa Curtis  of the Heritage
Foundation. U.S. officials who oppose designating the group warn
about damaging relations with ally Pakistan that are already
“badly frayed,” according to Curtis.  “Once you designate the Haqqani network, how do you not
designate Pakistan as a state sponsor of terrorism,”  Bruce Riedel , a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution , said in an
interview.  U.S. officials held talks with a Haqqani representative in
2011 to test the group’s willingness to engage in peace talks
with Afghans.  In their letter to Clinton, the lawmakers pressed for
immediate action by noting the “sensational and
indiscriminate” attacks on U.S. and allied forces and Afghans
by the Haqqani network, which is allied with the Taliban and
based in Pakistan’s Waziristan tribal region.  ‘Continuing Threat’  “The group poses a continuing threat to innocent men,
women and children in the region,” read the letter, signed by
lawmakers including  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat who
heads the Senate Intelligence Committee, and Representative Mike Rogers, the Michigan Republican who is chairman of the House
Intelligence Committee.  The administration may have been reluctant to designate the
Haqqani network as a terrorist group while Special
Representative for  Afghanistan  and Pakistan  Marc Grossman  tried
to negotiate a reconciliation agreement with the Taliban, the
lawmakers wrote. Last week, during their visit to Afghanistan,
U.S. Ambassador  Ryan Crocker  told them there have been no talks
since late last year, they wrote.  “It is clear there is now no reason not to designate the
Haqqani network as a foreign terrorist organization,” they
said, noting that the State Department began a final review of
the question in November.  Tension over Goals  State Department spokesman Victoria Nuland yesterday said
the review continues on whether to designate the group. The U.S.
previously has cited the group’s leaders, which enables the
administration to freeze any U.S.-based assets and pursue civil
and criminal penalties against U.S. individuals who conduct any
transactions with them.  Curtis, a senior research fellow at the  Heritage
Foundation , a Washington policy group, said in an interview that
the question of designation within the administration is “a
somewhat contentious issue.”  The U.S. sees both Pakistan’s stability and successful
peace talks on Afghanistan as essential to the stability of the
region.  “There’s a tension between our counterterrorism objectives
and our reconciliation objectives, which produces a reluctance
to act on the Haqqani network,” Riedel said.  The April 15 attack on the U.S. Embassy in Kabul is widely
thought to have been a Haqqani operation. “That is probably
strengthening the hand of those who want to designate it,”
Curtis said.  Strained Relations  Nuland said the question is whether a group designation,
such as was applied to al-Qaeda, is as effective as individually
targeting specific people.  “We consider it absolutely essential to designate
individuals because that allows us to pursue the assets of
individuals rather than have to sort of try to divine who might
be covered by a blanket designation,” Nuland said.  U.S. relations with  Pakistan  have been strained by a number
of disputes, including U.S. cross-border airstrikes from
Afghanistan in November that accidentally killed 24 Pakistani
troops. Pakistan cut off land-based supply routes to Afghanistan
and none have been reopened.  Pakistani leaders have allowed an insurgent sanctuary in
North Waziristan “due to their concerns that Pakistan will be
left alone to confront an unstable, an unfriendly or an Indian-
influenced Afghanistan on its borders,” according to a U.S.
Defense Department report issued April 30.  The report outlined several attempts at meetings to improve
relations, concluding that the U.S. and Pakistan have
“divergent strategic interests” that “continue to make
genuine cooperation difficult.”  Taliban and allied Haqqani network attacks from northwest
Pakistan “continue to threaten the emergence of a durable and
stable political solution,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  