-- Tesla to Begin Repaying U.S. Loans by End of This Year
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-05-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/tesla-to-begin-repaying-u-s-loans-by-end-of-2012.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-car
company led by  Elon Musk , is using the last of its $465 million
in U.S. loans and plans to start repaying them by the end of the
year, the first startup to fulfill requirements of the
criticized program.  The maker of Roadster sports cars had $104.5 million left
as of March 31 of the Energy Department loans awarded in June
2009, Tesla said in a regulatory filing. The remaining funds
will be used by the third quarter, with repayments to begin in
December, Chief Financial Officer Deepak Ahuja said.  “We are delivering on the milestones, what we’ve committed
to,” Ahuja said yesterday in a phone interview. “Once we are
delivering customer cars, then that signifies completion of the
project.”  Tesla this week said the first battery-powered Model S
sedans will be delivered in June, ahead of its initial July
release date. That’s an early success among the Advanced
Technology Vehicle Manufacturing loans the Obama administration
awarded in 2009 to Tesla, Fisker Automotive Inc., Ford Motor Co.
and Nissan Motor Co. to spur jobs and a market for autos using
little or no gasoline.  “We are pleased that Tesla continues to make progress and
look forward to working with them as clean, electric vehicles
play an important role in our energy future,”  Damien LaVera , an
Energy Department spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  ‘Crony Capitalism’  The so-called ATVM program, as well as Energy Department
loans to failed solar panel maker Solyndra LLC, have been
criticized as wasteful by Republican members of congress. Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee for president, has
described loans to Tesla and Fisker, the luxury plug-in hybrid
maker, as “crony capitalism.”  Tesla used its loans to renovate and equip a factory in
Fremont,  California , that shut down in early 2010 after serving
as a joint-venture plant for  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and the former
General Motors Corp. for 25 years. Federal funds also were used
for lithium-ion battery and electric motor assembly lines.  Tesla’s factory had 600 workers in April, and will employ
between 1,200 and 1,500 people by year end, Gilbert Passin, vice
president of manufacturing, said in an April 10 interview.  Tesla also supplies battery packs and electric-vehicle
motors for Toyota and  Daimler AG (DAI) , which are also investors in
the company. Tesla this week disclosed a new supply agreement
with Daimler for a vehicle due by 2014.  Interest rates  on the loans range from 0.9 percent to 3.4
percent, according to the filing. The loans must be fully repaid
in 10 years, Ahuja said.  Fisker Woes  Fisker, based in Anaheim, California, said in February the
Energy Department blocked access to some of its $529 million
loans last year for failing to meet milestones including
delivering Karma plug-in sedans on time. The company has said
it’s in talks with the department to regain access to the funds
to restart plans to build vehicles at a former GM factory in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  Bright Automotive Inc., a Rochester Hills, Michigan-based
company that hoped to make electric vans, said in February it
was closing down after failing to receive an ATVM loan.  Aptera Motors Inc., a California electric-car company
supported by Representative  Darrell Issa , chairman of the U.S.
House committee leading a probe of the department’s loan
programs, closed in December after it couldn’t get private
financing to match a $150 million conditional loan commitment
from the Energy Department.  Chrysler Group LLC withdrew its loan application in
February.  Tesla, based in  Palo Alto , California, fell 2.2 percent to
$32.25 at the close yesterday in  New York . The shares have
gained 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  