-- EU May Push Through Basel Bank Capital Law Over U.K. Protest
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-05-11T14:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/eu-may-push-through-basel-bank-capital-law-over-u-k-protest.html
The European Union may enact a
proposal for applying Basel bank capital and liquidity rules in
the region by a majority vote, overriding U.K. opposition, if no
consensus can be reached, a Danish official said.  Sixteen hours of talks on the bill last week snagged on how
far national regulators should be allowed to tighten regulations
and add to EU minimum requirements for bank capital. Both the
U.K. and Bulgaria rejected a compromise plan put forward by
 Denmark , which holds the EU’s rotating presidency.  Denmark will seek approval of the plan when EU finance
ministers meet in Brussels on May 15, the official said on
customary condition of anonymity. The meeting comes a day after
lawmakers in the European Parliament will adopt their
negotiating position on the draft law.  “The general attitude of the presidency is always to seek
the broadest possible agreement,” the official said. Still,
Denmark doesn’t exclude “using the rules of the treaty” to
approve the measures by majority vote. A “clear majority” of
nations supports the compromise plan, the official said.  Denmark is continuing its efforts to secure unanimous
backing for the bill, the official said.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  was one of
the loudest voices at the May 2-3 meeting calling for member
states to gain additional flexibility to toughen rules for their
banks.  Vickers Report  Osborne said that the proposal could prevent the U.K. from
fully implementing a rule overhaul for its lenders recommended
by a panel chaired by former Bank of England Chief Economist
 John Vickers .  The draft law must be approved by ministers and by the
European Parliament before it can come into effect.  The EU
faces a Jan. 1, 2013, deadline for adopting the rules agreed on
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  Parliament will settle its negotiating position on the bill
with a vote on May 14, the assembly said in an e-mailed
statement.  Lawmakers from the assembly’s main political groups have
already reached some agreements on amendments to the draft law,
 Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of parliament’s Economic and Monetary
Affairs Committee, said by e-mail.  Compromise Amendments  The amendments include a requirement that banks disclose
profits from carry trades derived from the more than 1 trillion
euros ($1.3 trillion) in three-year loans that the  European
Central Bank  has provided to the lenders since December, and
exclude the money from bonus pools, Bowles said.  Banks would also be required to disclose more information
to regulators on so-called  repurchase agreements , she said.  Other measures that have widespread support in the
parliament include requiring the EU to review a loophole in bank
capital rules that allows lenders to escape holding any reserves
against debt issued by governments in the region.  Political groups in the parliament have also agreed to seek
to cap bankers’ bonuses at 100 percent of fixed pay, according
to Philippe Lamberts, the lawmaker leading work on the rules for
the assembly’s Green group.  The Basel committee brings together regulators from 27
countries including the U.S., U.K., and  China  to set prudential
rules for banks.  The group in 2010 agreed to more than triple the core
capital than lenders must hold to protect themselves from
insolvency as part of a measures to prevent a recurrence of the
financial crisis that followed the collapse in 2008 of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  The measures, known as Basel III, must be implemented into
nations’ laws before they can come into effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net  