-- EU Seeks U.S. Trade Agreement by Mid-2014, De Gucht Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-05-11T18:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/eu-seeks-u-s-trade-agreement-by-mid-2014-de-gucht-says.html
(Corrects headline to delete reference to free trade.)  The European Union and the U.S.,
which have the world’s largest bilateral economic relationship,
are making progress on a trade accord that may be spelled out by
mid-2014, EU Trade Commissioner Karel  De Gucht  said.  Tariffs, services, procurement and regulatory issues top
the agenda for the proposed agreement, which is taking shape
this year. An interim report on the deal’s potential scope is
due in June with a final document by the end of 2012, and
negotiations could start soon after.  “I propose we negotiate for no longer than 18 months,” De
Gucht said today in remarks prepared for a speech in Hamburg.
Any accord must be “ambitious enough to include all areas of
economic importance, and realistic enough to be successful
within a limited period of time.”  Trade negotiators have their work cut out for them. The
U.S. and the EU -- which have trade flows between them of $4.4
trillion annually,  according  to the  German Marshall Fund  -- have
often pressed for closer trade ties, only to run into roadblocks
in reaching agreement. Any trade deal would face a lengthy and
difficult approval process within the governments.  The U.S. and EU “are examining a number of options for
expanding transatlantic trade and investment, including a
potential comprehensive trade agreement,” Andrea Mead, a
spokeswoman for the U.S. Trade Representative’s office, said in
an e-mailed statement. De Gucht and  Ron Kirk , the U.S. trade
ambassador, lead the group working on the June report and will
discuss its progress with trade ministers from EU states in the
coming weeks, she said.  Political Support  “This has always had more support at the highest political
levels than it has at the negotiating level,” Bill Reinsch,
president of the  National Foreign Trade Council , said in a phone
interview. Sticking points will include regulations, product
standards and health protections, he said, noting that the two
sides “have been butting heads on these things for 20 years
without a lot of progress.”  Political support for a new trade accord mounted in
November, when President  Barack Obama  and EU leaders created a
high-level working group to identify steps to boost economic
growth. The EU is particularly eager to find ways to shake loose
more economic activity, since the sovereign-debt crisis has
forced most members to cut budgets and cope with recessions.  Food Safety  De Gucht said the trade talks will include agriculture,
 food safety  and a range of industries. The goal should be to get
as close as possible to “full tariff elimination,” with cuts
across a range of industries, he said.  Both sides will seek to lower regulatory barriers that
hinder transatlantic trade, such as long-running disputes over
chemicals, genetically modified foods and chlorinated chicken.
The current push focuses less on investment, where a series of
bilateral deals have helped foster relatively smooth relations,
and more on goods, services and agriculture subsidies.  “Anything they come up with is likely to be symbolic,”
Peter Holmes, an economics professor at the  University of
Sussex , said by telephone. “If they really can break a
deadlock, that might trigger something bigger for the future.”  Working to set regulatory standards that overcome regional
differences has proven difficult, because they’re often set by
independent agencies at the national level in the 27-nation EU,
said  Gary Hufbauer , senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in  Washington . “Reconciling those has
proven to be virtually impossible,” he said by phone, adding
that it’s still not clear how broad a potential trade deal could
be or how much progress can be made before U.S. elections in
November.  ‘Living Agreement’  The stalled Doha round of multilateral trade negotiations
has left an opening for a free-trade agreement, with both the
U.S. and EU seeking growth opportunities while struggling to
emerge from a financial crisis, said Peter Rashish, vice
president for Europe and Eurasia at the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce.  “We could achieve a lot” and build a “living agreement”
for further work, he told reporters on May 8.  “It would make sense for us to come up with an ambitious
transatlantic undertaking,” though hurdles remain in areas
including services and agriculture, Susan Schwab, a U.S. Trade
Representative during President  George W. Bush ’s second term,
said in an interview. “The question is, do you layer it in?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  