-- European Stocks Gain as U.S. Consumer Sentiment Climbs
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-05-11T16:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/european-stock-index-futures-drop-telefonica-may-move.html
European stocks gained for a second
day, rallying from earlier losses, as U.S. consumer confidence
rose to a four-year high in May and talks continued on forming a
Greek government.  Michelin & Cie., the world’s second-largest tiremaker,
climbed 3.4 percent after predicting a “high increase” in 2012
operating profit.  Distribuidora Internacional de Alimentacion
SA , the world’s third-largest discount retailer, gained after
beating earnings estimates.  Vallourec SA (VK) , the French producer of
steel pipes, plunged the most since at least 1989 after profit
in the first quarter tumbled.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 0.4 percent to 251.97 at
the close of trading after earlier losing as much as 1.2
percent. The gauge dropped 0.4 percent in the week, its second
week of losses. The benchmark measure has still increased 3
percent so far this year.  “The economic number from the States came to alleviate
slightly what has been otherwise a very poor week for macro
sentiment in Europe,” said Luis Benguerel, a trader at
Interbrokers Espanola in Barcelona. “ Greece  seems to be hanging
on a cliff, so the mere fact that they are talking to form a
government there is encouraging”  The Stoxx 600 climbed 0.6 percent yesterday, as companies
from Deutsche Telekom AG to Repsol YPF SA posted better-than-
estimated quarterly profit.  U.S. Confidence  In the U.S.,  consumer confidence  rose in May to the highest
level in four years, indicating falling fuel costs are helping
households look past weaker employment growth.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment climbed to 77.8, the highest since
January 2008, from 76.4 the prior month. The gauge was projected
to drop to 76, according to the median forecast of 68 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  In Greece,  Evangelos Venizelos , the socialist Pasok leader,
will press counterparts on a proposal for a unity government
that would avert a new election.  Greece’s political impasse has raised the possibility
another election will have to be held as early as next month,
threatening the implementation of austerity pledges. The
standoff has reignited  European (SXXP)  concern over Greece’s ability to
hold to the terms of its two bailouts negotiated since May 2010
and sparked concerns about the country leaving the euro.  Stocks earlier fell after  Spain  said it will force the
country’s banks to increase provisions against losses on real
estate loans by 30 billion euros ($38 billion) and will hire two
auditors to gauge all the assets of lenders in the government’s
fourth attempt to clean up the financial system.  Spanish Banks  Banks will have to raise their provisions on real estate
loans that are still performing to 30 percent from 7 percent on
average, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said today in  Madrid .
The government will also force all banks to move real estate
assets off their balance sheets so they can be sold, he said.  Europe’s  economy  will fail to grow this year with risks to
the outlook “tilted to the downside” after nations from Spain
to  Italy  slipped into recession, the European Commission said.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area will drop
0.3 percent, the European Commission said today, reiterating a
February forecast. Greece will have the deepest contraction,
with GDP declining 4.7 percent this year, while the economies of
Spain and Italy are seen shrinking 1.8 percent and 1.4 percent.
Portugal’s GDP will drop 3.3 percent, it said.  ‘Austerity, Growth’  “These are very sensitive numbers because of the
fierceness of the debate between austerity and growth,”
Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
 London , wrote in an e-mail. “The overriding message from these
grim forecasts is that the credibility of fiscal policy in the
 euro zone  is in tatters and needs to be better calibrated to
economic realities.”  Michelin added 3.7 percent to 54.73 euros. The French
company also said the global tire market may gain 25 percent in
the next five years.  DIA gained 4.9 percent to 3.76 euros after announcing that
first-quarter gross sales were 2.8 billion euros, topping the
average 2.43 billion-euro analyst estimate.  A gauge of European banks was the second-worst performer of
the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600, with  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
dropping 2.9 percent to 202.8 pence.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s third-largest bank by market
value, lost 1 percent to 3.46 euros after it said first-quarter
profit fell to 252 million euros from 1 billion euros a year
earlier, hurt by Greek losses. That trailed the 482 million-euro
average  estimate  of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan Loss  JPMorgan Chase & Co. late yesterday reported a $2 billion
surprise loss on synthetic credit securities. Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the loss occurred after an
“egregious” failure in a unit managing risks.  “The JPMorgan loss couldn’t have come at a worse time
because the market was already showing fragile sentiment,” said
Lorne Baring, managing director at B Capital SA in Geneva, which
oversees almost $500 million. “When we get into this kind of
headline-driven market, it’s an insult at the end of an
injurious week. The market really didn’t need more bad news.”  Vallourec plummeted 20 percent to 34.30 euros, the most
since at least October 1989, after first-quarter profit tumbled
65 percent to 29 million euros as demand from power generation,
industrial and automotive customers proved weaker than forecast.
Analysts had projected profit of 50.2 million euros.  Telefonica Drops  Telefonica (TEF)  SA, Spain’s largest phone company, declined 1.3
percent to 11.17 euros. First-quarter operating income before
depreciation and amortization was 5.08 billion euros, falling
short of the 5.23 billion-euro analyst estimate. Revenue in the
first quarter was 15.51 billion euros, more than the average
analyst estimate of 15.43 billion euros. The company reiterated
its full-year targets.  Eutelsat Communications SA (ETL) , the satellite provider that
broadcasts about 4,000 channels, plunged 11 percent to 23.52
euros, the biggest drop since at least December 2005. The
company cut its forecast for revenue in the fiscal year through
June to about 1.22 billion euros after previously projecting
sales of more than 1.24 billion euros.  Schibsted ASA (SCH) ,  Norway’s largest media group , declined 5.2
percent to 190 kroner after it reported earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 421 million
kroner in the first quarter. That missed the average analyst
estimate of 452 million kroner.  EDP-Energias de Portugal SA, the nation’s biggest utility,
retreated 1.6 percent to 2.10 euros. The company said first-
quarter  net income  declined to 337 million euros from 342
million euros a year earlier.  A gauge of European carmakers was the  best performing group 
in the Stoxx 600.  Renault SA (RNO)  and  Pirelli & C SpA (PC)  jumped 5
percent to 33.19 euros, and 4.3 percent to 8.90 euros,
respectively. Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s second-biggest
automaker, forecast profit will rise to the highest in five
years, helped by rising demand for its vehicles in the U.S. and
 China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  