-- European Stocks Post Second Weekly Drop on Greek Election
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-05-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/european-stocks-post-second-weekly-drop-on-greek-election.html
European stocks  declined for a second
week after an inconclusive election in  Greece  left political
parties struggling to form a government, increasing speculation
that the nation might fail to implement austerity measures.  Mining companies led losses as Chinese industrial output
cooled. Bankia SA slid 16 percent as Spain took control of the
lender. Vallourec SA, a French producer of steel pipes for the
oil and gas industry, tumbled the most since 2008 after cutting
its forecasts. Royal KPN NV rose 20 percent after rejecting a
2.6 billion-euro ($3.4 billion) offer from  Carlos Slim ’s America
Movil SAB for a bigger stake in the Dutch phone company.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  retreated 0.4 percent to 251.97
this past week. The measure slid to the lowest level in almost
four months on May 9, before rebounding 0.9 percent over the
next two days. The gauge has retreated 7.5 percent since this
year’s high on March 16 as concern grew that the euro area might
fracture and Chinese economic growth missed forecasts.  “Investors are starting to ask what happens after a
country leaves the euro area, which was supposed to have been a
rock-solid bloc,” said Henrik Drusebjerg, a senior strategist
at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, where he helps oversee $230
billion. “The risk is that it will take massive resources to
keep  interest rates  under control in  Italy  and Spain if Greece
leaves the monetary union.”  National benchmark indexes fell in nine of the 18 western-
European markets this week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 declined 1.4
percent.  France ’s CAC 40 lost 1 percent as  Francois Hollande  was
elected president.  Germany ’s DAX advanced 0.3 percent. Greece’s
ASE Index plunged 11 percent to the lowest level since 1992.  Greek Election  Voters in Greece flocked to anti-austerity parties in the
May 6 election.  New Democracy  won 19 percent of the total vote
and 108 seats in the 300-seat parliament. Pasok, the Socialist
party that partnered with New Democracy in securing a second
rescue package for the country, trailed in third place while
Syriza, a coalition of left-wing parties that has vowed to
cancel the bailout terms came second.  Greece’s political impasse raised the possibility another
election will have to be held as early as next month. The
standoff has reignited European concern over Greece’s ability to
hold to the terms of its two bailouts negotiated since May 2010
and sparked concerns about the country leaving the euro.  BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, the  biggest mining
companies  listed in  London , dropped 2.8 percent and 2.3 percent,
respectively. Lonmin Plc, the third-largest platinum producer,
tumbled 8.6 percent. Basic-resources companies were the  worst
performing industry group  in the Stoxx 600 as copper fell in
London for a second week.  Chinese Economy  China ’s industrial production rose the least since 2009 in
April, retail sales and new lending gained less than estimated,
and exports also tailed forecasts.  Europe’s economy will fail to grow this year with risks to
the outlook “tilted to the downside” after nations from  Spain 
to Italy slipped into recession, the European Commission said
yesterday. Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area
will drop 0.3 percent, the commission estimated, reiterating a
February forecast.  “Some investors believe things are falling apart, though
others still think stocks are cheap -- but most likely stocks
will have a hard time until we’re well into the summer,” said
 Hans Peterson , the chief investment officer at SEB Private
Banking in Stockholm. “When we get into the summer, we’ll see
some very attractive entry points for investors to get back into
shares.”  Bankia Nationalization  Bankia plunged 16 percent this week after Spain took
control of the lender on May 9. The nationalization gives the
government a controlling stake of 45 percent in Bankia and the
 Economy Ministry  said it will provide the capital that’s
“strictly necessary” to clean up the lender.  Spain will force banks to increase provisions against real
estate loans by about 30 billion euros and will hire two
auditors to value lenders’ assets in a fourth attempt to clean
up the industry, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said
yesterday. Spain is making a fourth attempt to convince
investors its banking system is solid after failing to do so
with three prior tries in as many years.  Banco Santander SA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
the biggest Spanish lenders, jumped 4.1 percent and 4.3 percent,
respectively, the biggest gains in at least three months.  In France, Hollande defeated President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to
become the first Socialist in 17 years to control  Europe ’s
second-biggest economy. He pledged to push for less austerity
and more growth in the region.  ‘Open Arms’  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she will welcome
Hollande with “open arms,” while rejecting government stimulus
as the way to spur economic growth in Europe.  Vallourec lost 21 percent after cutting its forecast for
sales growth by half and missing profit estimates. Revenue will
grow about 5 percent this year, the  Boulogne Billancourt ,
France-based company said, compared with an earlier forecast of
about 10 percent.  Kloeckner & Co. SE, Europe’s largest independent steel
trader, dropped 11 percent after posting a first-quarter loss
that was about 11 times wider than analyst estimates.  KPN, the biggest Dutch phone company, jumped 20 percent
after rejecting an unsolicited 2.6 billion-euro offer for a
larger stake by  America Movil .  CSM, the world’s biggest maker of bakery ingredients
rallied 19 percent as the company said it will sell U.S. and
European bakery-supply units to fund the Purac and Caravan bio-
based ingredients brands’ growth.  Deutsche Telekom AG climbed 5.2 percent as Europe’s second-
largest phone company reported earnings that beat analysts’
estimates and was said to discuss a merger of its T-Mobile USA
unit with MetroPCS Communications Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  