-- Euro Economy to Shrink as Spain, Italy Re-Enter Recession
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-05-11T10:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/euro-economy-to-shrink-as-spain-italy-re-enter-recession.html
The  euro-region economy  will return
to growth in 2013, with only  Spain  among its 17 members
remaining in recession, according to the European Commission.  Gross domestic product will rise 1 percent in 2013 after
declining 0.3 percent in 2012, the Brussels-based commission
said today. While Greece will have the deepest slump, with GDP
declining 4.7 percent, its economy may stay unchanged in 2013.
Italy and  Portugal  will return to growth next year, while
Spain’s economy may shrink 1.8 percent this year and 0.3 percent
in 2013.  The report comes against a backdrop of renewed market
turbulence after an anti-austerity revolt saw voters punish
administrations at the ballot box in Greece and  France  while
Spain on May 9 took control of the nation’s fourth-largest
lender to assuage concerns. With the area’s economic slump
deepening and  unemployment  at the highest in 15 years,
governments may struggle to restore investor confidence. Fifty-
seven percent of respondents in a Bloomberg Global Poll said at
least one country would abandon the euro this year.  “We see slight euro-region growth in the second half of
2012 followed by a weak expansion in the following year,” said
 Christoph Weil , a senior economist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . “We can’t really call it an upswing, more of a
stabilization. Spain remains the problem child; they’re facing
the biggest issues apart from Greece.”  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.2944 at 12:43 p.m. in Brussels, up less than 0.1 percent.  Euro-Region Contraction  A euro-region contraction this year would be the first
since 2009, when the U.S.-led banking crisis exposed the
excessive borrowing and imbalances that plunged Europe into its
sovereign debt troubles. Euro-region gross debt may average 91.8
percent of GDP this year, up from 88 percent in 2011, with the
shortfall narrowing to 3.2 percent from 4.1 percent, the
commission said. Greece may have both the biggest  budget deficit 
and the highest debt burden this year, it said.  In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, GDP may rise 0.7
percent this year and 1.7 percent in 2013, according to the
commission forecasts. In France, where  Francois Hollande  last
weekend defeated  Nicolas Sarkozy , becoming the first Socialist
to win the presidency in 17 years, the economy is seen growing
0.5 percent and 1.3 percent this year and next, respectively.  ‘High Uncertainty’  The outlook continues to be surrounded by high
uncertainty,” the commission said in the report. “The largest
downside risk remains an escalation of the sovereign-debt crisis
in the euro area. A resurgence of financial turmoil due to
negative confidence shocks would spill over to the real economy
and reinforce negative feedback loops between fragile banks and
weak sovereigns.”  Euro-region unemployment will probably average 11 percent
this year, up from 10.2 percent in 2011, with Spain’s jobless
rate the highest among members states at 24.4 percent, today’s
report showed. In  Greece , unemployment may increase to 19.7
percent from 17.7 percent, the commission said.  Economies around the globe are also showing signs of
cooling.  China ’s industrial production grew the least since 2009
in April, retail sales rose less than estimated and inflation
was below target, reports showed today.  Malaysia ’s central bank
kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 3 percent and the U.K.’s
economy probably contracted more than previously forecast in the
first quarter after the statistics office reported a deeper
slump in construction.  U.S. Confidence  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, confidence among
consumers probably declined in May, according to a Bloomberg
survey. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s indicator
will be released later today.  Eighty percent of the 1,253 investors, analysts and traders
who are Bloomberg customers said they expected more pain for
 Europe ’s bond markets this year. Respondents to the May 8 survey
were also increasingly worried Spain will default and 84 percent
forecast the euro-region economy to worsen.  In elections in Greece last weekend, voters flocked to
parties opposed to austerity measures backed by German
Chancellor Angela Merkel, denying the two main parties a
combined majority and spurring calls for policies to boost
growth. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on May 9
that “if Greece decides not to stay in the  euro zone , we cannot
force” them.  Spanish Measures  Greece’s slump may ease after the economy contracted 6.9
percent in 2011, the commission said. Portugal’s GDP is seen
declining for a second straight year, while the Irish economy
may expand 0.5 percent in 2012. All three countries received
external aid over the past two years.  In Spain, which is suffering from the aftershocks of the
burst housing bubble, compounded by fiscal austerity and surging
unemployment, gross debt will average 80.9 percent of GDP in
2012, up from 68.5 percent, holding above the EU’s 60 percent
limit, with the deficit seen at 6.4 percent, down from 8.5
percent, the commission said.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will announce further
measures today to help cleanse lenders of real estate assets.
The country will take over Bankia by converting its 4.5 billion
euros ($5.8 billion) of preferred shares in the group’s parent
company into ordinary shares, it said two days ago.  “Financial markets currently appear much more concerned
about the lack of growth in Spain and the problems facing the
banking system than about fiscal indiscipline and rightly so,”
said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam. “Attention will now shift to the announcement from
the Spanish government later today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  