-- Ex-GE Bankers Convicted of Municipal Bond Bid-Rig Scheme
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-10-18T22:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/ex-ge-bankers-convicted-of-municipal-bond-bid-rig-scheme.html
Three former  General Electric Co. (GE) 
bankers were sentenced to prison terms ranging from three to
four years for defrauding cities and the U.S. Internal Revenue
Service in a bid-rigging scheme involving municipal bonds.  U.S. District Judge Harold Baer in  Manhattan  sentenced
Steven Goldberg to four years in prison while  Peter Grimm  and
Dominick Carollo each received three years.  “Corruption and greed certainly is what this case was
about,” Baer said before sentencing the men.  The three were found guilty by a federal jury in Manhattan
in May of conspiracy to commit fraud by manipulating auctions
for municipal bond investment contracts. Lawyers for the men
today urged Baer to give their clients non-prison sentences.
Each of them addressed the court in a hearing today, breaking
down while asking Baer for leniency.  In addition to the prison time, Baer fined Goldberg $90,000
and Carollo and Grimm each $50,000.  The government claimed that from August 1999 to November
2006 the men gave kickbacks to brokers hired by local
governments to solicit bids, to win auctions and to increase
their profits.  Selling Bonds  The charges grew out of a five-year investigation by
federal antitrust prosecutors into the $3.7 trillion municipal
 bond market . In December, GE agreed to pay $70.4 million to
resolve its part of the investigation.  Bank of America Corp. ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  have
acknowledged illegal activities by former employees and paid
more than $670 million in restitution and penalties.  The case against the three former GE bankers focused on
guaranteed investment contracts, or GICs, which cities buy with
the money raised from selling bonds. The arrangement lets the
cities earn money on the funds until they’re used for projects
including new waste treatment plants, hospitals and roads.  A total of 19 people and one company have been convicted
or pleaded guilty in the government’s investigation of the
municipal bond market, the  Department of Justice  said in a
statement today. One person is awaiting trial.  In August, three former UBS employees were convicted in a
trial in Manhattan of rigging bids for investing the proceeds of
municipal bond sales.  The case is U.S. v. Carollo, 10-cr-00654, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  