-- Ex-UBS Trader Sues After Firing for Mispricing Securities
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-05-11T16:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/ex-ubs-trader-sues-after-firing-for-mispricing-securities.html
A former  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader who was fired
after the bank found he worked with a colleague to manipulate
trading figures sued for unfair dismissal in London.  Ramon Braga, a trader on the bank’s corporate-credit desk
in London, was fired for collusion in the alteration of
“marked-to-market” values of credit default swaps by Denis Minayev, UBS staff said at an employment tribunal yesterday.  Minayev, a proprietary trader, “re-marked” Braga’s
trading book on 66 occasions, even though he shouldn’t have had
the authority to do so, UBS investigator Richard Kennedy said.  “If you shift one of those markers, it can give a
completely false picture,” employment Judge Graeme Hodgson said
at the hearing.  Braga, who is suing for unfair dismissal, was an
inexperienced trader who was “thrown in at the deep end,” his
lawyer,  Amy Sander , said at the hearing. He wasn’t aware of many
of the changes Minayev made, she said, and thought his actions
were permitted by managers. Braga was also accused by UBS of
“procuring a false broker quote,” she said.  UBS is already dealing with the fallout from what the bank
said were unauthorized trades by London-based UBS employee Kweku
Adoboli, which led to a $2.3 billion loss, regulatory probes and
the resignation of Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel .
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  CEO Jamie Dimon said yesterday his New
York-based firm suffered a $2 billion loss after a trading
unit’s “egregious” failure to manage risks.  Internal Probe  Kennedy, the UBS investigator, said the bank had uncovered
the re-marking of Braga’s trades during an internal probe into
him and Minayev, who is also no longer at the firm. Asked why a
proprietary trader had been able to access Braga’s trading book,
Kennedy said Minayev’s role had changed and he was asked not to
adjust positions any more.  “Despite his change in role, he hadn’t had his marking
privileges removed,” Kennedy said.  Dominik Von Arx, a spokesman for Zurich-based UBS, said
Braga “was a junior employee” in the bank’s fixed-income,
currency and commodities unit.  “He was dismissed for gross misconduct in October 2011
following an investigation into alleged mismarking,” Von Arx
said in an e-mailed statement. “UBS has zero tolerance for such
behavior.”  During cross-examination of Braga today, UBS lawyer  Bruce
Carr  said Braga had asked a broker friend to send him a quote
that justified changes made to his valuation, after a colleague
said the price was too high.  ‘Unsolicited E-mail’  “You get an entirely unsolicited e-mail that happens to
fit” the valuation, Carr said. “That’s quite a coincidence,
isn’t it?”  Braga responded that his “dismissal shouldn’t be based on
speculation or coincidences.”  The product being re-marked was a credit default swap on
European industrial-company bonds, which was illiquid and
difficult to value because it was rarely traded.  Lawyers for Braga questioned Paolo Croce, UBS’s European
head of rates, at the continuation of the hearing today about
the close relationship between proprietary traders such as
Minayev, who trade with the bank’s money, and flow traders like
Braga, who execute orders on behalf of clients.  “All the other flow traders followed the direction of Mr.
Minayev,” Braga’s lawyer said.  Croce said while flow and proprietary traders exchanged
information, they weren’t supposed to take instructions on
pricing.  Minayev had told Braga, “I need this to move,” according
to Croce. “He told him ‘I’m down $9 million today.’”  Minayev declined to comment when reached by phone. Braga’s
lawyers declined to comment outside court or when contacted by
e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  