-- Mexican Peso Posts Worst Week of 2012 on Reduced Risk Demand
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-05-11T21:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/mexican-peso-posts-worst-week-of-2012-on-reduced-risk-demand.html
Mexico ’s peso posted its biggest
weekly decline in five months as Europe’s debt turmoil sapped
demand for the Latin American nation’s higher-yielding assets.  The currency slid 0.4 percent to 13.5745 per  U.S. dollar  at
4 p.m. in Mexico City, extending its decline this week to 3
percent, the worst five-day performance since late November.  The peso slumped as Greece’s political leaders struggled to
form a government after last weekend’s elections, intensifying
Europe’s credit crisis. Concern over the continent’s fiscal woes
drove investors to dump higher-yielding assets last year and
helped make the peso the biggest loser among the most-traded
Latin American currencies.  Mexico’s “fundamentals are good, but we’ve seen a general
selloff in  emerging markets ,”  Ramon Cordova , a currency trader
at Banco Base SA in San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico, said in a
phone interview.  The yield on Mexico’s peso bonds due in 2024 rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.3 percent, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The price decreased 0.08 centavo
to 132.07 centavos per peso.  Policy makers said the likelihood of an economic slowdown
has abated, according to the minutes of last month’s meeting
released today. The central bank’s board unanimously kept the
benchmark lending rate at 4.5 percent for a 26th meeting.  One member of the five-member policy committee said peso
weakness has relaxed monetary conditions in Mexico, according to
the minutes. The majority said “that the posture of monetary
policy in Mexico is being tightened more than desired due to the
actions of other countries,” according to the document.  The peso rose earlier today as a report showing U.S.
 consumer confidence  at a four-year high boosted the growth
outlook for Mexico’s biggest trading partner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  