-- Facebook Co-Founder Saverin Gives Up U.S. Citizenship
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a ,   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-11T22:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/facebook-co-founder-saverin-gives-up-u-s-citizenship-before-ipo.html
Eduardo Saverin, the billionaire co-
founder of  Facebook Inc. (FB) , renounced his U.S. citizenship before
an initial public offering that values the social network at as
much as $96 billion, a move that may reduce his tax bill.  Facebook plans to raise as much as $11.8 billion through
the IPO, the biggest in history for an  Internet company .
Saverin’s stake is about 4 percent, according to the website
 whoownsfacebook.com . At the high end of the proposed IPO market
capitalization, that would be worth about $3.84 billion. His
holdings aren’t listed in Facebook’s regulatory filings.  Saverin, 30, joins a growing number of people giving up
U.S. citizenship ahead of a possible increase in tax rates for
top earners. The Brazilian-born resident of Singapore is one of
several people who helped  Mark Zuckerberg  start Facebook in a
Harvard University dormitory and stand to reap billions of
dollars after the world’s largest social network holds its IPO.  “Eduardo recently found it more practical to become a
resident of Singapore since he plans to live there for an
indefinite period of time,” said Tom Goodman, a spokesman for
Saverin, in an e-mailed statement.  Saverin’s name is on a list of people who chose to renounce
citizenship as of April 30, published by the  Internal Revenue
Service . Saverin made that move “around September” of last
year, according to his spokesman.  Besides helping cut tax bills stemming from the Facebook,
the move may also help him avoid  capital gains  taxes on future
investments since Singapore doesn’t have a capital gains tax.  Exit Tax  Saverin won’t escape all U.S. taxes. Americans who give up
their citizenship owe what is effectively an exit tax on the
capital gains from their stock holdings, even if they don’t sell
the shares, said Reuven S. Avi-Yonah, director of the
international tax program at the University of Michigan’s law
school. For tax purposes, the IRS treats the stock as if it has
been sold.  Renouncing your citizenship well in advance of an IPO is
“a very smart idea,” from a tax standpoint, Avi-Yonah said.
“Once it’s public you can’t fool around with the value.”  Saverin’s estimated gain, and subsequent tax bill, would be
based on an appraisal by his tax advisers. They could have
valued his Facebook stake at less than it will be worth once
shares trade publicly, reducing his liability. For tax purposes,
Saverin could say that the value of his stake should be
discounted because of the potential difficulty of selling the
shares while the company remains private.  Zuckerberg Scuffle  Saverin previously scuffled with Zuckerberg, his Harvard
University classmate, over his ownership in Facebook. Saverin
sued him and settled for an undisclosed amount.  The 2010 movie “The  Social Network ” added to Saverin’s
fame after it portrayed him as a scorned friend who provided the
company’s early financing and then was squeezed out. In the
film, written by  Aaron Sorkin , Saverin was portrayed by  Andrew
Garfield , who will play Spider-Man in “The Amazing Spider-
Man,” due to be released in July.  Saverin moved to the U.S. in 1992, and became a citizen in
1998, his spokesman said. He has invested in Asian, U.S. and
European companies, according to his spokesman.  He plans to invest in Brazilian and in other global
companies that have strong interests in entering the Asian
markets. “Accordingly, it made the most sense for him to use
 Singapore  as a home base,” Goodman said in the statement.  Jumio, ShopSavvy  His U.S. holdings include Jumio Inc., an online payments
company, and ShopSavvy Inc., a price-comparison service.  Renouncing citizenship is an option chosen by increasing
numbers of Americans. A record 1,780 gave up their U.S.
passports last year compared with 235 in 2008, according to
government records.  Income-tax rates for top U.S. earners will rise to 39.6
percent from 35 percent next year and rates on capital gains and
dividends also are scheduled to rise, unless Congress blocks the
increases.  “It’s a loss for the U.S. to have many well-educated
people who actually have a great deal of affection for America
make that choice,” said Richard Weisman, head of the global tax
practice at  Baker & McKenzie  in  Hong Kong . “The tax cost,
complexity and the traps for the unwary are among the
considerations.”  Combatting Evasion  Some of the world’s largest wealth-management firms have
ramped up efforts to fight  tax evasion  ahead of  Washington ’s
implementation of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, known
as Fatca, which seeks to prevent tax evasion by Americans with
offshore accounts. HSBC Holdings Plc, Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of
Singapore Ltd. and DBS Group Holdings Ltd. all say they have
turned away business.  The 2010 law, to be phased in starting Jan. 1, 2013,
requires financial institutions based outside the U.S. to obtain
and report information about income and interest payments
accrued to the accounts of American clients. That means
additional compliance costs for banks and fewer investment
options and advisers for all U.S. citizens living abroad, which
may depress banks’ returns.  Facebook plans to price its IPO on May 17, offering 337.4
million shares at $28 to $35 each. The shares will be listed on
the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol FB. Morgan Stanley,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are leading
the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net 
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net 
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  