-- Facebook’s Zuckerberg Targets Mobile Users for Growth
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-05-11T23:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/facebook-s-zuckerberg-addresses-questions-over-mobile-strategy.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Zuckerberg , clad in a gray T-shirt, told investors that the
company is taking steps to make money from its mobile-user base
and that his decision to buy Instagram wasn’t rash, according to
people who attended the meetings.  Zuckerberg, crisscrossing the U.S. to pitch Facebook’s
planned initial public offering to potential investors, fielded
questions about growth in the number of people who access the
site from wireless devices as well as demand from advertisers
willing to reach that user base, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the meetings were private.  Some investors have balked at buying shares in the IPO
after Facebook said on May 9 that advertising growth hasn’t kept
pace with the gains in users, many of them via mobile devices,
people with knowledge of the matter said yesterday. Facebook
plans to raise as much as $11.8 billion through the IPO, the
biggest in history for an Internet company.  Zuckerberg was flanked by Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  and Chief Financial Officer David Ebersman at today’s
presentation for more than 100 investors at the Crowne Plaza
Cabana Hotel, less than eight miles from Facebook’s headquarters
in  Menlo Park , California.  Facebook executives were introduced by  Michael Grimes ,
global co-head of technology investment banking at  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , which is handling the IPO. Facebook directors  Jim Breyer  and Marc Andreessen were among attendees at the lunch
meeting, which got under way shortly after noon local time and
featured chicken salad.  Heightened Security  In addition to Andreessen, co-founder of venture capital
firm Andreessen Horowitz, and Breyer, a partner at early
Facebook backer Accel Partners, Silicon Valley angel investor
 Ron Conway  was also at the event.  About a half-dozen security guards wearing earpieces and
black turtlenecks guarded doors and paced the floor of the
hotel. In the back courtyard, supporters of the Penn State
women’s rugby team held a leisurely luncheon to prepare for a
championship tournament this weekend. Even with temperatures
over 80 degrees Fahrenheit, the hotel’s pool was closed due to
heightened security. Certain hallways were also blocked.  Zuckerberg delivered a brief speech during the meal and
answered questions along with Sandberg and Ebersman, the people
who attended the meeting said. Zuckerberg fielded most of the
questions, the people said.  An inquiry about the details behind Facebook’s $1 billion
acquisition of Instagram, which makes mobile applications for
sharing photos, prompted Zuckerberg to explain that he had been
observing Instagram’s growth and had consulted with his
company’s board of directors.  Institutional investors including Franklin Resources Inc.
and Capital Research & Management Co. were scheduled for
individual meetings with Facebook executives at the company’s
headquarters this afternoon, according to two people familiar
with the plans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in  Palo Alto  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Milian in Palo Alto at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  