-- Facebook IPO Overvalued at $96 Billion in Global Poll
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-05-11T21:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/facebook-ipo-overvalued-at-96-billion-in-global-investors-poll.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , seeking as much as $96
billion in its initial public offering next week, is overvalued
at that price, according to a Bloomberg investor poll.  Underscoring concerns that growth may taper for the world’s
biggest social network, 79 percent of respondents in the
Bloomberg Global Poll of 1,253 investors, analysts and traders
who are Bloomberg subscribers said Facebook doesn’t deserve a
valuation so high.  While Facebook’s communication and photo-sharing tools have
helped it amass 900 million users, the  Menlo Park , California-
based company may be vulnerable to startups that can win over
Web surfers with new, competing social media sites. At the high
end of a projected range of $28 to $35 a share, Facebook would
be valued at 99 times its earnings, a higher multiple than 99
percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “It’s overvalued at that price,” said Filippo Garbarino,
who oversees $50 million at Frontwave Capital Ltd. in Chiasso,
 Switzerland . “Investors are becoming more selective and there
are quite a few fallen angels around, like Netflix. Those who
buy Facebook at these levels are more speculators than
investors.”  Facebook, co-founded by  Mark Zuckerberg  in 2004 in a
Harvard University dorm room, seeks a valuation at 24 times
revenue, compared with 5 times for  Google Inc. (GOOG) , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Weaker IPO Demand  Only 7 percent of those surveyed said Facebook was properly
valued, while 3 percent said it was undervalued. Among
respondents to the May 8 poll, 11 percent said they have no idea
how Facebook should be valued.  The IPO has so far generated lower-than-expected demand
from institutional investors who are concerned about growth
prospects, people with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  Already the company’s growth has shown signs of slackening.
Sales climbed 88 percent to $3.71 billion last year. According
to researcher EMarketer Inc., revenue may increase 64 percent to
$6.1 billion this year. That would be the third straight year of
slowing growth.  Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  and other
executives, now traveling across the country to pitch the IPO to
prospective investors, have said one of the most promising areas
of growth for Facebook is in the area of mobile advertising. Of
the people who access the site each month, 488 million did so on
mobile devices in March, Facebook says in  regulatory filings .  Teens on Tumblr  Even gains in mobile don’t always translate to ad growth.
Increases in daily users outpaced advertising growth in the
second quarter as more members accessed the site from mobile
devices, Facebook said in a May 9 regulatory filing.  Larry Yu, a spokesman for Facebook, declined to comment.  Luke Rasnake, a senior vice president of fixed income sales
at RBC Wealth Management, is among investors who say Facebook is
overvalued. He formed his view by watching his daughters use
social media. The girls, aged 12 and 14, have started using
sites like Tumblr to interact online, he said.  International investors are more skeptical than those on
Facebook’s home turf. Of those surveyed outside the U.S., 82
percent said Facebook was overvalued. That compares with 74
percent in the U.S. Facebook is getting an increasing share of
its sales from outside  North America . The U.S. and  Canada  made
up half of revenue in the first quarter, down from 58 percent in
2010, amid rapid growth in areas including  Germany ,  Brazil ,
 Australia  and  India .  Room for Growth  Zuckerberg, 27, and other executives are working to drum up
interest in the shares by touting gains in daily active users,
which increased 41 percent to 526 million in March, and
increases in user engagement. Users generated an average 3.2
billion “Like” postings and comments a day in the first
quarter.  The message is getting across. Some investors will rush to
the stock just because of the site’s popularity, said Simon Lee,
a research analyst at Navy Federal Credit Union, who said in the
survey that the company is undervalued.  “It’s just impossible to say in the Internet industry how
much farther a company can grow,” Lee said. “Facebook still
has a lot more room, and there will be a lot more demand than
supply for their stock.”  Only 3 percent of the investors polled were less than 25
years old, while the largest portion, 36 percent, were between
35 and 44 years old. Andy Krystal, a 24-year-old research
analyst at Royal Capital Asset Management Inc. in Toronto, said
older investors may not be regular users of the site.  “They may not appreciate the value, whereas I use it all
the time to check on friends,” said Krystal, also a respondent.  Biggest Internet IPO  The company and its holders plan to sell about 337.4
million shares in the offering. At the high end of the range,
the IPO would raise $11.8 billion, making it the largest initial
share sale on record for an  Internet company . The shares will be
listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol FB.  The IPO would dwarf the 2004 IPO of Google, the world’s
most valuable Internet company. Google’s offering, the same year
Zuckerberg helped found Facebook, raised $1.9 billion and valued
the company at about $23 billion.  Mountain View , California-
based Google has a market value of $200.3 billion.  In January 2011, 69 percent of investors said Facebook was
overvalued at $50 billion. The Bloomberg Global Poll was
conducted by Selzer & Co., a  Des Moines , Iowa-based firm. It has
a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  