-- Fed Officials Seek More Information on JPMorgan Trade
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-05-12T00:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/fed-officials-seek-more-information-on-jpmorgan-trade.html
Federal Reserve officials are
gathering more information about the trading position that led
to a $2 billion loss at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which they have
known about for several weeks, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  Fed officials don’t view it as their role to approve or
reject individual trades at banks, the person said. Rather,
their job is to ensure the firms have sufficient capital to
withstand losses, said the person, who wasn’t authorized to
discuss the matter and asked not to be identified.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  announced the
“egregious” trading loss yesterday, two months after the
biggest  U.S. bank  by assets passed a Fed stress test that put
its loans and securities through a scenario of deep recession
and a simulated global financial market shock.  “This is the way the system should work,” said Mark Calabria, a former Senate Banking Committee staff member and now
director of financial regulation studies at the  Cato Institute 
in  Washington . “The capital should be there to actually absorb
losses.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission opened a
preliminary investigation into JPMorgan’s disclosures related to
the trades, according to a person briefed on the probe who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the matter isn’t public.  JPMorgan’s announcement points to gaps in the Fed’s
enforcement of governance and risk management, said  Robert Eisenbeis , a former research director at the Atlanta Fed.  ‘Watching the Store’  “The fact that Jamie Dimon could come out and make some of
those statements” raises “lots of questions about who was
watching the store,” said Eisenbeis, who is now chief monetary
economist at Sarasota, Florida-based Cumberland Advisors. The
Fed “ought to be going in and looking at the internal controls
and monitoring procedures that the institution is taking, and
stress those.”  Krishna Guha, a spokesman for  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York , JPMorgan’s regulator, declined to comment. JPMorgan
spokesman  Joseph Evangelisti  also declined to comment.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of
regulators charged with preventing a financial crisis, wasn’t
convened to discuss the JPMorgan loss and had no plans to meet,
said a Treasury Department official who declined to be
identified. The council is chaired by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and includes Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  Capital Ratio  JPMorgan’s tier 1 common capital ratio, a measure of
capital strength tracked by the Fed, never dipped below 5
percent in the 2012 stress scenario despite a hypothetical $28
billion in trading and counterparty losses and $56 billion in
loan losses, according to results of the stress tests released
on March 13.  “I don’t think this particular number is big enough to get
in the way of the capital buffers that JPMorgan has,” Robert Engle, winner of the  Nobel Prize  in economics, said of the $2
billion loss.  “We think of JPMorgan as being one of the more systemic
institutions because it is so big,” said Engle, a professor at
 New York  University’s Stern School of Business, who helped
develop a model of systemic risk at the school’s Volatility Lab.
“But because it is big, a loss like this is not going to bring
it to its knees.”  JPMorgan shares fell 9.3 percent to $36.96 at the close of
trading today in New York. The KBW Bank Index of 24 financial
stocks was down 1.2 percent to 46.40.  Separately, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the
main U.S. derivatives regulator, has been reviewing JPMorgan’s
derivatives trading activities since last month, according to
another person who was briefed on the matter.  The CFTC hasn’t opened an enforcement action against the
bank, according to the person, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the review is private.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres at   ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage at 
 Csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  