-- For Volcker Rule, JPMorgan’s $2 Billion Loss Says It All
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-11T17:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/for-volcker-rule-jpmorgan-s-2-billion-loss-says-it-all.html
It’s never polite to say I told you
so, but JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s $2 billion trading loss has
proponents of a tougher proprietary trading ban saying . . .
well, you know what.  JPMorgan’s admission is a shocker. The bank said the losses
resulted from errors, sloppiness and bad judgment, which top
bank executives didn’t know about or understand until it was too
late. On  Wall Street  and around the globe, JPMorgan was a
standard-setter for risk management. If regulators can’t trust
JPMorgan to get it right, whom can they trust?  The Volcker rule, part of the Dodd-Frank financial reform
law, was inspired by former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker . It’s supposed to stop federally insured banks from
making speculative bets for their own profit -- leaving
taxpayers to bail them out when things go wrong.  As we have said, banks have both explicit and implicit
federal guarantees, so the market doesn’t impose the same
discipline on them as, say, hedge funds. For this reason, the
Volcker rule should be as airtight as possible.  The huge trading positions taken by the London branch of
JPMorgan’s chief investment office certainly drive home the
point. As first reported by Bloomberg News, the investment
office, operating much like a hedge fund, built a position that
may have totaled $100 billion in a credit-derivative index known
as the CDX, which tracks the default risk of a basket of
companies. Those are the positions that blew up. They could
ultimately cost the bank much more than $2 billion now that the
market knows they are being unwound.  Skewed Prices  Although their precise size and purpose aren’t known, the
trades -- bets that companies in the index wouldn’t default on
loans -- caused distortions in a $10 trillion market. For a
while, the price of the index actually diverged from the price
of default insurance on the individual companies underlying it.
The skewed values adversely affected investors and others who
relied on the instrument to hedge hundreds of billions of
dollars of bond holdings.  The blowup is stirring debate among U.S. policy makers
wrangling over the Volcker rule, complicating the job of
JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , who is leading the
industry charge against the rule. Dimon at first sought to
downplay all the fuss as a “complete tempest in a teapot.” It
was Dimon who transformed the investment office in recent years
to make bigger and riskier speculative trades with the bank’s
money, Bloomberg reported. One sign that the unit may have been
doing more than hedging could be seen in its daily trading risk
-- it was about the same as JPMorgan’s entire investment bank,
which includes Wall Street’s biggest stock-trading and bond-
trading units.  In truth, the London trades fall into a gray zone in the
Dodd-Frank law. The act gives regulators discretion to exempt
“risk-mitigating hedging activities” for “individual or
aggregated positions” from the proprietary trading ban.
JPMorgan still argues that it was following the letter of the
law because its trades were meant to hedge the bank’s overall
portfolio risk. If the  Federal Reserve  and other bank regulators
agree, and write a Volcker rule that allows such broad-based
hedging to continue, they risk a systemic failure.  Bank executives have an incentive to mask proprietary
trading as hedging or as market-making -- another activity the
Volcker rule permits. After all, taking large speculative
positions in derivatives markets is a tempting shortcut to
profits and bonuses. Almost any trade by a large bank could be
made to look like a hedge -- and regulators would be hard-
pressed to prove otherwise. As JPMorgan has now shown, giant
trading positions can backfire as easily as they can pay off.  We urge regulators not to view such portfolio-hedging
trades as benign. The final Volcker rule, which could come as
early as this summer but won’t be enforced for two more years,
should require banks to put stricter boundaries around trading
activity with a risk profile that includes estimates of losses
under various worst-case scenarios. Regulators should approve
these profiles and have the ability to monitor compliance.  True Market Making  Regulators also must not let banks continue to do prop
trading under the guise of market making. One solution is to
look at how long a trading desk has been holding its inventory
of securities. The average for a big market-making operation
should be a matter of days. And regulators could look at the
percentage of trades a desk makes with clients, versus with
other securities dealers. If most trades are with customers, the
bank is probably doing true market making.  Overseas regulators are considering alternative approaches
that could work just as well, so long as the end-goal is to
limit proprietary trading. The U.K. allows banks to conduct prop
trading as long as they split their banking and securities
activities into independent, separately capitalized entities, an
approach known as ring-fencing. The European Union is also
considering requiring risk profiles as well as higher  capital
requirements  for securities that aren’t easily sold.  Banks say these rules will impair their ability to act as
market makers in service to clients, harm liquidity in bond
markets, and impose costs that will reduce lending and slow the
economy. What banks don’t mention is that depositors’ money will
be safer, taxpayers won’t have to bail out big banks that suffer
large trading losses, and financial crises and recessions may
occur less often. That’s a lot of upside.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 