-- French Soft Wheat Rated Good/Excellent Climbs; Barley Gains
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-11T17:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/french-wheat-rated-good-excellent-is-stable-barley-improves-1-.html
French wheat rated as “good” or
“excellent” increased in the seven days ended May 7 from the
previous week, while barley conditions also improved, crop
office FranceAgriMer reported.  Soft wheat with top ratings rose to 66 percent from 65
percent the previous week, the Montreuil-sous-Bois, France-based
office wrote on its  website . That compares with 38 percent rated
“good” or “excellent” a year ago, when spring drought hurt
the crop.  France, the European Union’s largest wheat grower, had its
fifth-wettest April since 1959, forecaster Meteo-France reported
this week. Last month’s rain relieved drought stress for winter
grains, crop researcher Arvalis Institut du Vegetal said May 4.  “Generally the crops are in super condition,” said Celine
Sicard, an analyst at Paris-based Union InVivo, the largest
exporter of French wheat, by phone yesterday, before the crop-
rating report. “The danger of drought is mostly behind us.”  Milling wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
the French capital has dropped to close at 196.25 euros
($253.97) a metric ton today from this year’s high of 209.25
euros as rain benefited the growing crop.  The ratings are the average for eight regions representing
54 percent of French soft-wheat production, according to the
crop office.  France  accounted for 5.9 percent of the world wheat
crop last year, based on International Grains Council data.  The soft wheat rated “good” rose to 53 percent from 52
percent from a week earlier, while 13 percent was rated
“excellent,” unchanged from the previous week.  Durum, Barley  Durum wheat rated as “good” or “excellent” increased to
51 percent from 49 percent, based on three regions making up 58
percent of French production of the grain, the data showed. The
grain rated “good” advanced 2 percentage points to 46 percent,
while the portion rated “excellent” was stable at 5 percent.  Winter barley rated “good” or “excellent” advanced 1
percentage point to 59 percent, based on conditions in seven
regions that represent 56 percent of the average national
output. Grain with the highest rating increased to 11 percent
from 10 percent.  The barley rating compares with a year-earlier assessment
of 39 percent “good” or “excellent.”  For spring barley, the “excellent” rating rose to 20
percent of the grain from 19 percent a week earlier, while grain
rated “good” was stable at to 60 percent. The ratings are
based on data from five regions that on average grow 47 percent
of the French crop, according to FranceAgriMer.  At this time last year, 40 percent of the spring-barley
crop got top marks, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  