-- Germany Delays Solar Subsidy Cut in Blow to Angela Merkel
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-05-11T10:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/german-upper-house-delays-solar-subsidy-cuts-in-blow-to-merkel.html
Germany ’s upper house voted to
renegotiate a bill backed by  Chancellor Angela Merkel  that would
cut subsidies for solar power after state leaders from her own
party said the plan would threaten jobs.  A majority of the 16 states represented in the upper house,
or Bundesrat, today voted to send the legislation to a
parliamentary arbitration committee that can make changes. The
bill was backed by lawmakers in the lower house in March and has
been in effect on a provisional basis since April 1.  “I don’t see major changes to tariff cut levels, but I
expect more time to be given to developers to complete
projects,” Katharina Cholewa, an analyst at WestLB AG, said by
phone before the vote. “While this will give the industry room
to breathe, its real problem isn’t subsidy cuts, but the pricing
pressure because of fierce competition from  Asia .”  Governors are concerned that Merkel’s plan to reduce solar
incentives after an installation boom will put additional
pressure on domestic manufacturers such as  Solarworld AG (SWV)  as
Chinese rivals led by  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  grab market
share. Four German solar companies including  Q-Cells SE (QCE) , once
the world’s biggest cell maker, have filed for creditor
protection since December.  “The legislation in its current form would threaten
Germany’s solar industry,” Winfried Kretschmann, the state
governor in Baden-Wuerttemberg, said in the Bundesrat today.  Leaders from CDU-led states including Saxony, Thuringia and
Saxony-Anhalt said they would vote to change the bill in the
session. The legislation was backed by lawmakers in the lower
house in March and has been in effect on a provisional basis
since April 1.  The arbitration panel may convene before the Bundesrat’s
next session on June 15, Martina Fuge, a spokeswoman, said by
phone today. If the panel agrees to change the legislation and
both houses of parliament approve, the tariff cuts would be
altered retroactively, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  