-- Gilead’s HIV Quad Pill Wins Backing From FDA Advisers
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-05-11T20:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/gilead-s-hiv-quad-pill-wins-backing-from-fda-advisers.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s experimental
HIV pill Quad, the new medicine from the world’s largest maker
of AIDS drugs, gained a U.S. advisory panel’s backing to treat
patients infected with the virus.  The committee voted 13-1 in favor of approving the drug, a
four-in-one combination pill from  Foster City , California-based
Gilead. Panel members said patients taking the medicine should
undergo extra testing to monitor for kidney complications.  The medicine is designed to have fewer side effects than
current treatments. Approval of the Quad pill is crucial for
Gilead and may generate $4 billion in peak annual sales, said
Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst with Deutsche Bank AG in New York.
The drugmaker is facing the loss of half of its  revenue  from
patent expirations on AIDS therapies starting in 2018.  “A once-a-day pill, depending on people’s lifestyle, that
doesn’t have neuropsychiatric side effects could be very
appealing,” said Demetre Daskalakis, an assistant professor at
 New York  University School of Medicine’s infectious disease
division. “I feel like people would pick the Quad as a first-
line treatment.”  Gilead rose 1.2 percent to $51.84 at the close in New York.
The stock has  gained  27 percent in the past 12 months.  The FDA is scheduled to decide by Aug. 27 whether to
approve Quad for U.S. sale. The agency doesn’t have to follow
the advice of its advisers.  Side Effects  Gilead’s three-drug pill Atripla, approved in 2006, is the
 top-selling  AIDS medicine. The therapy mixes Gilead’s two-drug
medicine Truvada, approved in 2004, with  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY) ’s Sustiva. Quad contains four Gilead compounds in a single
pill that patients take once a day. Patients taking the drugs
were less likely to have abnormal dreams, trouble sleeping,
dizziness, or rash compared to an older combination of AIDS
drugs, Gilead’s studies found.  “With HIV it is all about compliance if you have a drug
with fewer side effects that is one pill once a day that is
going to win out,” Karnauskas said.  An FDA review of studies funded by Gilead found a higher
number of kidney complications reported in people taking Quad
compared with other HIV treatments. Those side effects included
four cases of  kidney failure  and one case of a rare syndrome
where substances aren’t absorbed into the blood stream by the
kidneys.  Taking Medication  Still, there were fewer patients who stopped taking Quad
early because of side effects and the incidence of side effects
was similar to other drugs, the FDA said.  “Quad has a potential to fulfill an unmet medical need
with patients with HIV infection,” Andrew Cheng, Gilead’s
senior vice president for clinical research and development
operations, told the panel. “The Quad does not come without
risk.”  Company-sponsored studies have shown Quad works as well as
Atripla. Eighty-eight percent of patients in a 48-week study who
took Quad had no detectable levels of HIV in their blood
compared with 84 percent of those taking Atripla, according to
research presented in March at the  Conference  on Retroviruses
and Opportunistic Infections in  Seattle .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  