-- Glencore Bid for Viterra Raises Retail Concern, Report Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-05-11T20:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/glencore-bid-for-viterra-deal-raises-retail-concern-report-says.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s proposed
C$6.1 billion ($6.1 billion) takeover of  Viterra Inc. (VT)  may reduce
competition in retail fertilizer sales, according to a report
prepared for the Saskatchewan government.  Glencore’s acquisition of  Canada ’s largest grain handler
includes a side deal to sell 90 percent of Viterra’s domestic
retail outlets to  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , a Calgary-based fertilizer
producer that is already North America’s largest farm retailer.  “There is some concern about competition in the farm input
sector –- particularly regarding nitrogen fertilizers –- due to
the acquisition of most of Viterra’s retail input facilities by
Agrium,” according to a summary of the report by Informa
Economics Inc., a Memphis, Tennessee-based independent research
company, that was released today.  The report says that Glencore’s purchase of Regina,
Saskatchewan-based Viterra will initially have “minimal
impact” on competition in grain handling and the only job
losses will be limited to head-office employees. Regarding the
sale of the retail assets to Agrium, Informa says there is no
evidence the company would take “anticompetitive actions.”  “If Agrium’s retail and wholesale business units were
coordinated in the future, the firm might have the ability to
sustain price increases in some locations,” according to the
report. “Thus, there is some concern about competition.”  ‘Ethical Standards’  Richard Downey, a spokesman for Agrium, said the company
won’t use its separate fertilizer-production and farm-retail
operations to influence prices or run those businesses any
differently than it does now.  “We pride ourselves on complying with all laws and having
the highest ethical standards,” Downey said today in a
telephone interview. “We’ve been in farm retail for 15 years in
 Argentina  and 20 years in the U.S. I don’t see why it would be
an issue in Canada.”  As part of the proposed Viterra acquisition, Glencore also
agreed to sell assets to privately held Richardson International
Ltd., Canada’s second-largest grain handler, including 19 grain
elevators, a stake in a Vancouver export terminal and two
Viterra milling and processing businesses. Richardson is a unit
of Winnipeg-based James Richardson & Sons Ltd.  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded commodities
supplier, said in a May 4 statement that it received
notification that Canada’s competition commissioner doesn’t
intend to oppose the acquisition. The Baar, Switzerland-based
company also said the U.S. waiting period for antitrust review
had expired on May 3.  Review Process  Glencore said in a statement today it’s working within the
Investment Canada review process to gain regulatory approval to
complete the transaction.  “It would appear that the opportunities outweigh the risks
for Saskatchewan,” Glencore said.  Under Canada’s foreign-takeover law, known as the
Investment Canada Act, the government reviews foreign takeovers
valued at more than C$330 million in assets to ensure the
transaction represents a “net benefit’ to the nation.  The government has 75 days to review the takeover after
being notified by the foreign investor, unless the investor
agrees to a further extension.  Potash Corp. Deal  In 2010, Canada’s federal government rejected a $40 billion
hostile bid by Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  for Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., saying the proposal for the world’s
largest potash miner didn’t provide a ‘‘net benefit” for the
country.  Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall, who opposed the Potash
Corp. bid, said last month the sale of Viterra is “a lot
different” in terms of both the scope and assets involved.  Saskatchewan said in a separate statement today that it
wants the federal government to make approval of the acquisition
conditional on Glencore keeping to commitments to establish its
North American headquarters in Regina and investing C$100
million in the Canadian grain-handling industry in the next five
years.  Viterra declined 1 cent to C$15.96 at the close in Toronto,
while Agrium rose 1.1 percent to C$83.56. Glencore fell 2.6
percent to 386.1 pence in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  