-- Google’s Brin Makes Strides in Hunt for Parkinson’s Cure
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-05-11T16:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/google-s-brin-makes-strides-in-hunt-for-parkinson-s-cure-health.html
Sergey Brin, the 38-year-old co-
founder of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , is making strides in his quest to find a
cure for Parkinson’s, a progressive disease his DNA and family
history suggest may afflict him as early as 10 years from now.  The advances are encouraging  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  to pursue a new class of medicines that may
become the first to slow the progress of Parkinson’s disease in
a unique collaboration that Brin is funding.  Brin, who began donating to Parkinson’s research in 2005,
accelerated that giving after he learned in 2008 he has a  flawed
gene  that presents him with a 50 percent chance of getting the
disease by age 70. So far Brin has donated $132 million, mostly
through the  Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s Research ,
to help create a DNA database of 7,000 patients and to support
work on the first targeted treatments that aim at the genetic
causes of the movement disorder.  “If I felt it was guaranteed to cure  Parkinson’s disease  a
check for a billion dollars would be the easiest one I have
written,” he said in an interview. “Pretty much everybody in
the world has or will have some serious condition. How much is
it worth to you to have that condition be potentially curable?”  Among the recipients of Brin’s largess is the company his
wife, Anne Wojcicki, started to create a database of genetic
information and which found that Brin had the Parkinson’s gene.  Depression and Dementia  While existing Parkinson’s medicines help with symptoms,
they don’t slow the progression of the disease, in which brain
cells involved in coordinating movement die off, leading to
tremors, stiffness, slowness, difficulty speaking, depression
and dementia.  Parkinson’s afflicts about 1 million people in the U.S.,
and 1 in 100 people over age 60. It was first described in an
1817 essay by the British surgeon James Parkinson about six
patients with a “shaking palsy.”  A 2009 study  estimated the
disease costs Americans $10.8 billion a year, including $6.22
billion in medical costs such as drug treatments and nursing
home care, and $4.56 billion more in lost wages and other
indirect costs.  “As of today there’s nothing specific that Sergey can do
about it, but that doesn’t mean he can’t try to drive change,
which we’re doing,” said Wojcicki, co-founder and chief
executive of closely held personal genomics company 23andMe
Inc., in an interview.  Brin’s Mother  Brin’s mother, Eugenia, a former computer scientist at
 NASA , first began to suffer symptoms in 1997 at age 49. A
genetic test developed by 23andMe showed Brin and his mother
have the Parkinson’s gene. Brin’s funding efforts through the
Fox Foundation are studying specific blocking mechanisms that
may offer the first real treatment to slow the disease.  “I was very surprised” to get the result in 2008, Brin
said. “I wasn’t alarmed. I felt empowered. I felt I could
invest in the research,” said Brin, who has a net worth of
about $19 billion.  Brin and Wojcicki “have been hugely helpful,” said
Michael J. Fox, the actor who started his eponymous foundation
in 2000, nine years after developing Parkinson’s disease.  “People of their profile, who are smart and savvy, when
they get involved in such a big way it encourages scientists to
take it seriously and it encourages industry to take it
seriously,” Fox said in a telephone interview.  ‘EBay for Research’  Wojcicki said the company she founded in 2006 is aiming to
create an “EBay for research” that would speed discoveries in
difficult diseases by connecting doctors and researchers to
unprecedented amounts of gene data.  “If Sergey is in the database, I just don’t want 23andMe
to have access to the data, I want every smart LRRK2 researcher
to have access,” she said in an interview referring to the
Parkinson’s-linked gene mutation Brin carries known as LRRK2.  Better sharing of data from millions of patients would
speed research into treatments for everything from brain
diseases to  heart disease  to cancer, Brin said.  “It could be transformational,” he said.  People with Parkinson’s are short on dopamine, a natural
substance in the brain essential to normal nerve activity.
Researchers have identified 6 rare Parkinson’s genes, including
the LRRK2 mutation first discovered in 2004.  Gene Study  Since then, Brin and Wojcicki have funneled $124.9 million
to the Fox Foundation, making them the organization’s biggest
funder. Starting in 2009, Brin has also funded researchers at
23andMe to create a DNA database, the largest gene study of
Parkinson’s patients in the world, according to the  Mountain
View , California-based company. He has agreed to underwrite
genotyping for the first 10,000 people who  join . Brin has also
contributed $7 million to the Parkinson’s Institute and Clinical
Center.  Brin started donating in earnest to the Fox Foundation
after the group’s co-founder Deborah W. Brooks, a former vice
president at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , heard in 2004 that his
mother had the disease. She called  Intel Corp. (INTC)  co-Founder Andrew Grove, a Parkinson’s sufferer and foundation donor. Grove set up
a dinner with Brin and Brooks at the Stanford Park Hotel in
 Menlo Park ,  California , near  Stanford University , she said.  At the dinner, Brin grilled Brooks on the state of
Parkinson’s disease research. The meeting led to a partnership.  The Fox Foundation has helped 23andMe get patients for its
database. Parkinson’s is “uniquely suited” to Web-based
research, since patients often have difficulty getting to the
doctor yet are able to report symptoms online and send in a
saliva sample, said Nick Eriksson, a 23andMe biostatistician.  First Results  The data effort has started to yield results. Researchers
at 23andMe last year said they had spotted a gene that may
protect against the harmful effects of LRRK2, explaining why
some people with the mutation never get the disease.  Scientists at Stanford University reported in March 2011
they had transformed skin cells donated from Eugenia Brin into
brain cells with Parkinson’s symptoms. These cells, and similar
cell lines from other patients, will let researchers duplicate
the disease in the lab to test for potential drugs, said William Langston, who treats Brin’s mother and runs the Parkinson’s
Institute and Clinical Center based in Sunnyvale, California.  John Hardy , a brain genetics researcher at  University
College London  whose department has received Fox Foundation
funding, calls the LRRK2 gene “almost a dream target” for
companies searching for Parkinson’s drugs. The gene creates a
protein that can be blocked with chemicals similar to certain
cancer drugs already on the market, giving researchers a head
start on finding a targeted drug.  Posing Challenges  The obstacles toward creating drugs that slow Parkinson’s
are daunting. Researchers know little about how LRRK2 weakens
brain cells, and by the time the disease is diagnosed the
majority of dopamine-producing neurons may already be dead.  Researchers are only beginning to develop tests to spot the
disease earlier, when it might still be possible to preserve the
brain cells.  Ted Dawson, a neuroscientist at  Johns Hopkins University  in
Baltimore, is maintaining his optimism.  While human trials are still several years off, “it is
just going to be a matter of time to move these forward,” said
Dawson, who showed in 2010 that compounds used against LRRK2
could block brain cell death in mice.  The mutation creates a defective protein that kills brain
cells within 24 to 48 hours in the test tube, according to
research from Dawson. Blocking the protein might stop or slow
progress of the disease.  Places to Start  The new findings are giving drug and biotechnology
companies starting points for personalized drugs that will first
be tested in subsets of patients with the bad genes, said Owen
Ross, a brain genetics researcher at the  Mayo Clinic  in
Jacksonville,  Florida .  “The momentum has been incredible,” he said.  While LRRK2 is directly responsible for 1 or 2 percent of
Parkinson’s cases, the research “could have implications for
the vast majority of Parkinson’s patients,” Ross said.  Researchers at  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  began working on drugs to
block LRRK2, “literally the day after the first papers got
published,” said Kalpana Merchant, chief scientific officer for
translational science for the Indianapolis-based drugmaker.  “Now we have a gene tied to the disease where we know how
to target it with drug-like molecules,” she said.  When Brin realized he had DNA that suggested he, like his
mother, could eventually suffer from the disease he and Wojcicki
determined they wanted to do something big.  Manhattan Project  When the Fox Foundation’s Brooks was contacted, she visited
Brin at Google’s headquarters with a suggestion: Why not create
a Manhattan Project to devise drugs against LRRK2?  Brin signed on with a $20 million donation, $15 million
designated for LRRK2, and has been the main sponsor on the Fox
Foundation’s LRRK2 effort since. Last year, Brin and Wojcicki
pledged to match any further new donations of as much as
$50 million, with half the money directly targeted for research
into LRRK2.  The Fox Foundation directly funds Pfizer and
GlaxoSmithKline to do LRRK2 drug research. A larger group of
industry advisers, including scientists from Pfizer, Glaxo,
Lilly and  Elan Corp. (ELN) , holds regular calls to discuss roadblocks
toward making LRRK2 drugs that researchers could help solve.  The collaboration helps share the risk of drug discovery
and gives Pfizer access to a worldwide network of experts on
LRRK2, said Michael Ehlers, chief scientific officer for
Pfizer’s neuroscience research, in a telephone interview.  Maybe for Sergey  “It is a natural kind of alliance” that will become more
common, he said. Pfizer could have a LRRK2 medicine in human
trials in two to three years, he said.  Money from the foundation in 2009 allowed Glaxo to hire
contract chemists to craft drugs against LRRK2, said Alastair
Reith, the research manager who leads the project. Without the
funding, Glaxo’s work might have languished, as drug companies
“are paring back quite drastically” in brain diseases, he
said.  Parkinson’s, which afflicts fewer people than Alzheimer’s,
“isn’t high in the pecking order,” he said by telephone.  Eugenia Brin, now retired and living in Los Altos Hills,
California, is philosophical about the chances for a cure.  “I do hope they find a drug,” she said in a telephone
interview. “It may be too late for me -- but maybe in time for
Sergey.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  