-- Greek Anti-Bailout Leader Rejects Unity Government Plan
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-05-11T18:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/greek-anti-bailout-leader-rejects-unity-government-plan.html
Alexis Tsipras, the leader of
 Greece ’s biggest anti-bailout party Syriza, turned down an
appeal by political leaders to join a unity government that
would avert a new election amid mounting concern of a euro exit.  “I want to underline that the refusal of this proposal
isn’t coming from Syriza, but from the Greek people
themselves,” Tsipras said in  Athens  today, in comments
televised live on state-run NET TV. “The people have already
rejected the bailout so no government has the right to implement
it.”  Tsipras’s refusal to participate in a government that would
group two pro-bailout parties with his own and the smaller
Democratic Left party dims hopes of avoiding another round at
the ballot-box, which polls show may catapault Syriza into first
place. The onus is now on President Karolos Papoulias to try and
broker a government of national unity.  Greece’s political impasse since the inconclusive May 6
election has raised the possibility another vote will have to be
held as early as next month, threatening the implementation of
austerity pledges. The standoff has reignited European concerns
over Greece’s ability to hold to terms of its two bailouts
negotiated since May 2010 and sparked concerns about the country
leaving the euro.  Pasok Leader  Evangelos Venizelos , the socialist Pasok leader, hosted the
talks today after receiving the third and final mandate to form
a government yesterday. He will see Papoulias to hand back the
mandate tomorrow.  The unity government proposal by Democratic Left leader
Fotis Kouvelis had received backing from Venizelos and New
Democracy leader Antonis Samaras, underpinned by the two main
principles of keeping the country in the euro region and
renegotiating bailout conditions to boost growth.  “We are fighting to form a government and there are still
hopes for this,” Samaras told his lawmakers after the meeting
in comments televised live on NET TV. “If there are elections,
which I repeat there shouldn’t be, the dilemma for voters then
will be whether we stay in  Europe  and the euro.”  Kouvelis, whose party holds 19 seats in the 300-seat
parliament, said the unity government would last until 2014 and
would have a specific agenda to negotiate a gradual
“disengagement” from bailout austerity measures. He said that
a condition for Democratic Left joining the government was the
participation of Syriza.  International Rescue  New Democracy and Pasok, the two parties that supported the
international rescue in an interim government earlier this year,
are two deputies short of the 151 seats needed for a majority in
the 300-seat chamber. Syriza came second with 52 seats, and
Pasok placed third with 41 seats. Five parties opposed to
bailout policies are now in parliament.  Tsipras failed to reach a deal with other leaders after
giving them an ultimatum to renounce support for the EU-led
rescue in order to enter the government. Samaras, whose party
finished first, gave up trying to forge a coalition after six
hours of talks on May 7.  Tsipras demanded that Samaras and Venizelos, the former
finance minister, send a letter to the EU revoking their written
pledges to implement austerity measures. Both rejected the
request, with Samaras saying he was being asked “to put my
signature to the destruction of Greece.”  -- With assistance from Tom Stoukas, Jonathan Stearns, Antonis
Galanopoulos and Eleni Chrepa in Athens, Jana Randow, Zoe
Schneeweiss and Boris Groendahl in Vienna. Editors:
Kevin Costelloe,  Andrew Davis   To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  