-- Greece Would Run Out of Cash by July Without Support, BofA Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-05-11T08:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/greece-would-run-out-of-cash-by-july-without-support-bofa-says.html
The Greek government would run out of
cash by early July if its international partners decided to
withhold their next aid payment because politicians have yet to
form an administration, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said.  Greece currently has about 2.5 billion euros ($3.2 billion)
in cash and could survive for about two months if inflows and
expenses are similar to those in 2011, according to the
report by a team led by Chief European Economist  Laurence Boone .
If revenue collection falters, the government could run out of
cash as early as June, it added.  Greek lawmakers are in their fifth day of talks about
forming a government following the inconclusive May 6 election
that marked the rise of parties opposed to the terms of the
nation’s bailout. The impasse has raised the possibility another
ballot will have to be held as early as next month. For now,
international money is still flowing to Greece. The European
Financial Stability Facility disbursed 4.2 billion euros to the
country yesterday.  Even the best-case outcome “highlights the extreme urgency
for the Greek political system to resolve the governance issues
as soon as possible,” the Bank of America report said. “Our
central scenario is that  Greece  will have a viable government
after the June elections with a pro-European approach. However,
the probability of the country being driven to a full-blown
default and an exit from the euro is not trivial.”  The EFSF has held back 1 billion euros of the planned
payment to Greece, suggesting that European authorities want to
compel Greek politicians to come up with a solution.  “The pressure is likely to be sustained,” ING Rates
Strategist Padhraic Garvey said in a separate note. As no
further bond redemptions are due in July and August, the
thinking may be “that Greece’s funding requirements over that
period are purely internal and so Greece can stew in that,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  