-- Schaeuble Says Greek Exit Wouldn’t Bring Down Europe
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-05-11T08:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/greek-exit-wouldn-t-bring-down-europe-schaeuble-tells-newspaper.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  suggested the euro area could handle  Greece  dropping
out, raising pressure on Greek political leaders struggling to
form a government amid a rise in anti-bailout sentiment.  “We have learned a lot in the last two years and built in
protective mechanisms,” Schaeuble told the Rheinische Post
newspaper in an  interview  published today, when asked whether
the euro area is girded for a Greek exit. His comments were
confirmed by the  Finance Ministry  in Berlin.  “The risks of contagion for other countries of the euro
zone have been reduced and the euro zone as a whole has become
more resistant,” Schaeuble said. “The notion that we wouldn’t
be able to react in a short time to something unforeseen is
wrong.”  Evangelos Venizelos , the Pasok leader and former finance
minister, will try to put together a unity government today as
Greece enters a fifth day of post-election impasse. He is due to
hold talks with Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis on plans
to keep Greece in the euro while attempting to negotiate a
gradual “disengagement” from bailout austerity measures.  “The future of Greece in the euro zone now lies in
Greece’s hands,” German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said
in a speech in the lower house of parliament in Berlin today.
“Solidarity is not a one-way street” and aid to Greece can
only be disbursed if Greece sticks to its part of the deal.  ‘Nonsense’  As Greece kicks back against the budget cuts and economic
overhaul required under its financial rescue, anyone who tells
Greeks there’s an easier, less painful way out is spouting
“nonsense,” Schaeuble said.  While it’s firstly the responsibility of euro states to
become more competitive to stimulate economic growth, the
European Union can help, Westerwelle told lawmakers in a speech
outlining government policy on the crisis. He cited better use
of EU funds, tapping unused amounts in so-called structural and
cohesion funds, improving access to European Investment Bank
loans and expanding trans-national infrastructure networks.  “We have to tell our Greek friends and partners honestly,
fairly and openly that there is no way other than the one we
jointly agreed,” Schaeuble said. Other European governments and
private investors have gone “extraordinarily far” in making
concessions, so Greece “has to understand that must fulfill its
commitments in return.”  “We want Greece to stay in the euro zone,” Schaeuble
said. “But it has to want this and has to accept its
commitments. We can’t force anyone.  Europe  won’t go under that
quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  