-- Greek President Meets Parties in Bid for Unity Government
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-05-13T10:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/greek-president-to-tackle-post-vote-political-stalemate.html
Greek President Karolos Papoulias
began meeting with the leaders of the country’s three biggest
parties in a final bid to coax them into a coalition that would
avert new elections and damp concern about a euro-area exit.  Papoulias is in talks with the leaders of the  New
Democracy , Syriza and Pasok parties, each of which failed to
deliver on mandates to form governments in the past week. He
will then meet the leaders of the four other parties with the
aim of forming a national-unity government. If Papoulias’s
efforts today fail, new elections will need to be called.  “The Greek people didn’t just give us a message, they gave
us a mandate,” said Antonis Samaras, head of New Democracy, the
biggest party, following the elections of May 6. “That was a
message for the cooperation of all of us, for a change in policy
but to remain in the euro.”  Greece’s political impasse since the inconclusive general
elections has raised the possibility another vote will have to
be held as early as next month, with polls showing that could
boost anti-bailout party Syriza to the top spot. The standoff
has reignited concern the country will renege on pledges to cut
spending as required by the terms of its two bailouts negotiated
since May 2010, and, ultimately, leave the euro area.  Returned Mandate  Evangelos Venizelos , the socialist Pasok leader, returned
the third, and final, mandate to Papoulias yesterday, after
Alexis Tsipras, the leader of Syriza, turned down an appeal by
the smaller Democratic Left party to join a coalition.  Pasok, New Democracy and Democratic Left had earlier agreed
on the broad outlines for a government would last until 2014 and
be committed to keeping the country in the euro region and
renegotiating bailout conditions from the  International Monetary
Fund  and European Union to boost growth.  Tsipras turned down the approach on May 11 as the first
opinion polls since the elections showed he was gaining in
support.  Syriza would come in first, though short of an outright
majority, with 20.5 percent of the vote, if elections were held
again, according to a Kapa Research poll for the newspaper To
Vima, released yesterday. It got 16.8 percent in the May 6
election. Support for New Democracy would fall to 18.1 percent
from 18.9 percent and Pasok would drop to 12.2 percent from 13.2
percent, according to the survey.  Concessions Wanted  The poll showed 78 percent of Greeks want the government to
do whatever possible to keep  Greece  in the euro area and that 72
percent want political parties to make concessions to form a
coalition, compared with 22.9 percent who want new elections.
Kapa surveyed 1,007 Greeks May 9 and 10. The poll had a margin
of error of 3.1 percentage points.  New Democracy and Pasok, the two parties that supported the
international rescue in an interim government earlier this year,
are two deputies short of the 151 seats needed for a majority in
the 300-seat chamber. Five parties opposed to the bailout
conditions are now in parliament.  Tsipras failed to reach an accord with other leaders after
giving them an ultimatum to renounce support for the  EU-led
rescue  in order to enter the government. Samaras, whose party
finished first, gave up trying to forge a coalition after six
hours of talks on May 7.  Euro Exit Risk  Tsipras demanded that Samaras and Venizelos, the former
finance minister, revoke their written pledges to implement
austerity measures. Both rejected the request.  More than half of investors predict one of the nations in
the euro area will exit the currency bloc this year as Greece’s
election impasse threatens to push the  European debt crisis  to
new depths, according to a Bloomberg Global Poll on May 10.  A Greek departure from the euro could be “technically”
managed yet would damage confidence in the monetary union,
 European Central Bank  Governing Council member  Patrick Honohan 
said yesterday.  “It is not necessarily fatal, but it is not attractive,”
Honohan told a conference in the Estonian capital, Tallinn.  Greece will run out of cash by early July if partners
decided to withhold their next aid payment. The European
Financial Stability Facility on May 9 confirmed that a 5.2
billion-euro ($6.7 billion) tranche will be released by the end
of June, with 4.2 billion euros disbursed May 10. The remaining
1 billion euros will be released depending on Greece’s financing
needs.  Bailout Terms  Under the terms of the bailout, a new government will need
to spell out how it will save of 11 billion euros next month.  Fitch Ratings  said in a report on May 11 that the outcome
of another election would be “unpredictable” and “make it
doubtful that Greece could comply with the EU-IMF’s end-June
deadline to propose further medium-term austerity measures.”  While Greece would probably be granted an extension to that
deadline, any attempt to significantly renegotiate its program
would be unacceptable to the so-called troika of the European
Commission, IMF and European Central Bank, Fitch said.  “The impression from this week’s unfruitful negotiations
on the formation of a new government is that Greek political
parties have taken the view that new elections in June are the
only way out,”  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European economist at
Mizuho International Plc said in a note to investors on May 11.
“If new elections are called, they will indeed amount to a
referendum on staying in the euro.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  