-- Michigan Pro-Union Move Shows Labor Wars May Help Obama
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-05-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/michigan-pro-union-move-shows-labor-wars-may-help-obama.html
Beth Cox works at the  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
plant in Dearborn, Michigan, where her grandfather was a
mechanic and a United Auto Workers official.  “I went to labor parades since I was 6,” said the 42-
year-old. Now she’s working for a ballot proposal to guarantee
the collective-bargaining rights her family has enjoyed for
three generations, and to ban laws like the one Indiana adopted
in February that allow workers to avoid paying union dues.  Cox and the petition drive are part of a Midwest resistance
against anti-union laws that may help Democratic President
 Barack Obama  win battleground states in November. The uprising
began in 2011 when Republican Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  
pushed to eliminate collective bargaining for most public 
employees -- a measure that prompted a June 5 recall election  
that’s become the epicenter of the strife.  Ohio voters repealed a similar law championed by Republican
Governor  John Kasich  in November. Now,  Michigan ’s Democratic
base is trying to reverse what it calls attacks by Republicans
meant to erode its union support. The proposed ballot measure
would block or unravel laws that curb health care and pension
benefits for public employees, constrain bargaining and allow
financially distressed cities and school districts to cancel
contracts.  “This shows I have a voice,” said Cox, who said she has
collected 100 petition signatures to put the constitutional
amendment to a vote. She’s among volunteers on whom organizers -
- led by Michigan’s largest unions -- are counting to amass
322,609 names by July to win a spot on the Nov. 6 ballot.  Locked in Combat  Republicans in Michigan,  Ohio  and Wisconsin seized control
from Democrats in 2010, winning gubernatorial races and
legislative majorities. In 2012, Indiana Republicans enacted the
first so-called right-to-work law in a northern industrial
state. Such measures prohibit union membership or payment of
dues as a condition of employment.  Michigan Representative Mike Shirkey, a Republican, is
waiting to introduce right-to-work legislation. Shirkey said he
believes Snyder would sign it into law, though the governor has
spoken against such measures.  About 58 percent of Michigan voters support such a measure,
according to a March poll by Lansing-based Marketing Resource
Group.  Make or Break  Battles over collective bargaining are the result of right-
wing dogma, said Mark Schauer, former Democratic congressman
from Michigan and a board member of American Rights at Work, a
Washington-based nonprofit that advocates collective bargaining.  “It’s partly about undermining the partnership that exists
between labor and management, but it’s mostly bare-knuckled
politics that will hurt the middle class,” Schauer said in an
e-mail. “The irony is that in Michigan, the comeback of the
 auto industry  and the state’s economy are a direct result of
labor and management working together.”  The Midwest union battles demonstrate labor’s erosion of
influence in the past 30 years, said William Jones, a labor
historian at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.  Wisconsin ’s
recall, in which Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett will face Walker,
is a bellwether for the November presidential election, he said.  “Whoever wins this is really going to be galvanized,”
Jones said.  Proxy War  The Wisconsin recall and the Michigan ballot issue may
rally support for Obama, said John Russo, a labor-studies
professor at Youngstown State University in Ohio.  Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin account for 44 electoral votes
and are among 12 swing states that may determine this year’s
presidential race, according to a  USA Today /Gallup tracking
poll. The race is a  virtual tie  among those states between Obama
and presumptive Republican nominee Mitt Romney, according to
poll of registered voters conducted April 26-May 2.  All three states have suffered declines in economic health
during the past four years, according to Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States data.  Like the tumult in Wisconsin, Michigan’s union-backed
ballot issue could become a national test of clout, with
business interests from around the U.S. fighting it, said Rich Studley, president of the Michigan Chamber of Commerce. He said
the ballot drive, announced in February in  Washington  by UAW
president  Bob King , would cement expensive, job-killing
provisions in a state that lost 860,000 jobs from 2000 to 2009.  “This is a bizarre, extreme overreaction to  Indiana 
becoming a right-to-work state,” said Rich Studley, president
of the Michigan Chamber of Commerce. “If they can ban right-to-
work in Michigan, they’ll try it in other states.”  Enter the Kochs  Both Kasich and Snyder have said their states aren’t ready
for pitched battles over right-to-work. Still, the Tea Party-
backed Ohioans for Workplace Freedom is seeking the 385,253
signatures to put a right-to-work constitutional amendment on
the Ohio ballot.  Meanwhile, if Wisconsin’s Walker is recalled, “it will
pour gas on the fire here in Michigan,” Studley said.  Opponents in Michigan already include the Americans for
Prosperity, founded by billionaire brothers Charles and  David
Koch . Americans for Prosperity backed a $6 million television ad
campaign against Obama that began in January.  Michigan’s ballot campaign is the first time that unions
have sought a pre-emptive ban against right-to-work laws, said
Scott Hagerstrom, director of Americans for Prosperity Michigan
in Lansing.  “It would reverse a lot of great proposals that have
passed the Legislature and the governor signed that protect
taxpayers and right the financial ship of the state,”
Hagerstrom said.  Hidden Spending  Unions supporting the effort -- called Protect Our Jobs --
include the Michigan Education Association, Michigan AFL-CIO and
the Teamsters, said campaign spokesman Dan Lijana. He wouldn’t
divulge funding, saying the campaign has grassroots support. The
UAW represents about 17,000 state employees in Michigan.  Michigan does not require the ballot campaign or its
opponents to file spending reports until after the issue is
approved or rejected for a November vote. The campaign might
cost as much as $20 million, said Rich Robinson, director of the
nonpartisan Michigan Campaign Finance Network in Lansing, which
tracks spending.  On May 7, cable-television ads were begun in Michigan and
five other states labeling teachers unions as self-serving
“bullies” that harm schools. The campaign by the Washington-
based State Government Leadership Foundation will cost “in the
low-six figures,” said Sarah Lenti, a spokeswoman. The other
states are  New York ,  New Jersey ,  Connecticut ,  New Mexico  and
 Illinois .  Local Pride  The Protect Our Jobs initiative banks on substantial
union membership. Michigan unions represented 18.3 percent 
of the work force according to a 2011 U.S. Department 
of Labor  report , compared with 11.8 percent nationwide.  Still that doesn’t mean a slam dunk for the Michigan
campaign because 34 percent of the state’s union members are
Republican, said Bernie Porn of EPIC/MRA, an independent polling
firm in Lansing.  The Protect Our Jobs campaign stems from organized labor’s
increasing distrust of Republican Governor  Rick Snyder , said
 Bill Ballenger , publisher of Lansing-based Inside Michigan
Politics.  He said Snyder has cultivated a nonconfrontational style
distinct from the more combative Walker and Kasich, yet he has
signed legislation that unions view as hostile.  “Labor isn’t buying his sweet-talk act anymore,”
Ballenger said.  The ballot initiative is “an arms race” between organized
labor and Republicans, said Dennis Muchmore, Governor Snyder’s
chief of staff.  “This takes us back,” Muchmore said of the ballot
campaign. “It’s hard for the middle ground to get a fair
discussion. The minute you get to middle ground, one side or the
other takes a step or reacts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  