-- Midnight Was Movie Hour, Nap Time in New York Air Tower
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-05-11T21:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/midnight-was-movie-hour-nap-time-in-new-york-air-tower.html
When midnight rolled around and
flight traffic thinned out, air-traffic controllers guiding
planes in the busiest U.S. corridor whipped out laptops to watch
movies, play games or gamble online.  Controllers on break inflated air mattresses and napped on
the floor. Some left before their shifts were over. They cursed
at managers, refused to train new controllers, and flouted rules
requiring them to pass on weather advisories to pilots.  “It was blatant and in your face,” Evan Seeley, a former
manager in the Ronkonkoma,  New York , tower who came forward last
year, said in a phone interview yesterday.  Those and other allegations made by Seeley were
corroborated by investigators from the  Federal Aviation
Administration , according to  reports  released this week by the
U.S. Office of Special Counsel, an agency formed to help and
protect whistle-blowers inside federal agencies.  Special Counsel Carolyn Lerner sent a letter on May 8 to
the White House and Congress detailing findings in Seeley’s case
and six other verified whistle-blower complaints, saying the FAA
and Department of Transportation were slow to address them or
hadn’t acted.  In New York, investigators found a facility in which FAA
managers were unwilling or afraid to discipline controllers’
union members, the reports said. Supervisors who tried to
enforce the rules had their cars vandalized or were threatened.
The result was widespread violations of rules that undermined
safety, reviews by the special counsel and FAA found.  Lack of Urgency  Seeley, who’d worked in  Fort Worth , Texas, before coming to
New York in February 2010, said he was shocked by what he saw.  “The advice from the seasoned front-line managers was: you
keep your head in the sand,” he said.  The FAA has a higher rate of employees seeking whistle-
blower protection than any other U.S. agency, according to the
special counsel office’s preliminary review.  “There did not seem to be the level or urgency that we
thought many of these claims really deserved by the agency,”
Lerner told reporters that day.  The New York case was an exception to Lerner’s concerns in
one regard: As the FAA was rocked last year by disclosures that
controllers were sleeping on the job across the U.S., agency
teams descended on the facility on  Long Island . Within months,
they’d corroborated most of Seeley’s allegations.  House Cleaning  On Sept. 6, the FAA replaced the facility’s top managers
and brought in experienced supervisors from other locations to
serve as mentors for the remaining staff.  “It is clear, given the number of Mr. Seeley’s allegations
that were substantiated in this investigation, that significant
corrective actions are required,” the FAA’s internal
investigation found.  While Lerner said she was satisfied with the outcome, she
noted in her letter that the response occurred after Seeley took
his concerns to the media.  The FAA didn’t respond to questions for this story about
specific complaints, saying in an e-mailed statement that it has
an office dedicated to investigating charges by employees of
impropriety and safety lapses. That division, the  Office of
Audit and Evaluation , oversaw the investigation in New York,
according to documents released by the special counsel.  “We are concerned when we hear about rare examples that
deviate from the high standards we set for ourselves and are
determined to work with the FAA to correct any such issues,”
Paul Rinaldi, president of the National Air Traffic Controllers
Association, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Youngest Manager  Safety is the top priority of the union, which represents
about 15,000 controllers, and it’s working with the FAA to
improve professional standards, Rinaldi said in the statement.
“NATCA condemns any behavior in the control facility that
undermines that goal,” he said.  Seeley arrived at the New York Center at age 25 after
entering a one-year training program to become a manager. He
said he was told he was the youngest tower supervisor in the
country.  Friends in Fort Worth warned him about the reputation of
the  New York Center , which oversees higher-altitude traffic in
the skies above parts of New York,  New Jersey ,  Pennsylvania  and
 Maryland , he said.  Even with the warning, he said, he was stunned by what he
saw.  Vandalism, Warnings  A controller cursed out another supervisor in front of
Seeley his first day on the job. Within a week, copies of a
photo from Seeley’s Facebook page appeared all over the
facility, including in the men’s room. The manager who had
informed him of the photos said it didn’t warrant a response, he
said.  “She said they are just trying to get under your skin,”
Seeley said. “They’re hazing you a little bit. If you make a
big deal out of this, it will just get worse.”  One night, a controller using his laptop failed to notice a
warning on his  radar  screen that he needed to switch to a backup
system, Seeley said.  Seeley hadn’t made any effort to stop the use of personal
electronics at that point. This was different, he said, because
of the warning. So the young manager reported the controller.  Another manager urged him not to press the matter. “He
said you need to think twice,” Seeley said. “I wouldn’t do
this. It’s not going to go over well for you.”  Within weeks, someone ran a sharp object across Seeley’s
car, scratching the paint, he said. On another occasion, one of
his tires was slashed.  ’Rat Fink’  FAA regulations are precise in describing how controllers
must issue instructions so that their staccato radio
transmissions aren’t misunderstood. The regulations also require
that controllers pass on weather reports and other information
to pilots.  These rules often weren’t followed in New York, Seeley
said. When investigators visited the facility last year, they
listened in on 32 hours of activity. Almost half of the
controllers they evaluated weren’t complying with FAA rules,
according to the agency’s  findings .  On Jan. 2, 2011, Seeley was demoted from his management
position to controller. His supervisors told him his performance
was sub par. Seeley said it was retribution, though that wasn’t
part of his whistle-blower complaint.  Later that month, as he was studying for his new job, he
returned to his desk to find a message on a blackboard next to
his desk:  “Rat fink, watch ur back,” it said, according to Seeley.
An arrow pointed to the chair where he’d been sitting. Seeley
complained to the special counsel.  Near Collision  On Jan. 20, an  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  American Airlines Inc. jet and two
U.S. Air Force C-17s almost collided while under the control of
two New York controllers. They passed within 200 feet (61
meters) vertically and less than a mile of each other, according
to the  National Transportation Safety Board .  Poor communication between the controllers, one of the
issues Seeley had raised, was one of the reasons for the
incident, he said. He decided to take his story to the  New York
Post .  A short time later, he was offered a transfer back to Fort
Worth and accepted.  Seeley said he hasn’t seen the issues he saw in New York at
other facilities. While there was tension within the  Texas 
center when he returned, that has mostly died down, he said.  “Now I have as normal a career as I can expect,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  