-- IEA Sees Tighter Oil Market, High Prices on Supply Risks
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-05-11T10:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/iea-sees-tighter-oil-market-high-prices-on-supply-risks.html
The  International Energy Agency  said
global oil markets are “marginally tighter” after raising its
demand forecast, and predicted that geopolitical risks to crude
supply will keep prices high.  The IEA made a “modest” 80,000 barrel-a-day increase to
estimates for oil consumption in 2012 following more positive
economic growth projections by the  International Monetary Fund ,
and trimmed its assessment for supplies from outside OPEC.
Still, inventories are above their five-year average for the
first time in a year. The impact of sanctions on Iran is “near
the top” of threats to crude supplies, the agency said.  Brent crude futures have lost 11 percent in the past two
months, trading at about $112 a barrel today, as the global 
recovery sputters and concern recedes that tougher sanctions by
Western nations against  Iran  over its nuclear program will 
spark a wider conflict. The European Union will halt crude 
imports from the Islamic republic as of July.  “Our global oil balance this month paints a marginally
tighter picture,” the Paris-based IEA said today in its
monthly oil-market report. “The path of market fundamentals for
the rest of the year remains highly uncertain and geopolitical
risks will likely continue to keep prices high.”  ‘Plentiful’ Supplies  Global oil use will increase by 0.9 percent to 90 million
barrels a day, the IEA said. The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries said yesterday in its monthly report that
supplies are “plentiful” and in excess of needs, estimating
2012 world demand at 88.7 million barrels.  “The OPEC report is backward-looking and the IEA report is
forward-looking,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-
markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “OPEC is trying
to talk down prices with a relatively sanguine assessment of
conditions in the second quarter, but in the end it’s not
present conditions that matter but what’s going to come next.”  Spare production capacity, estimated at 2.4 million barrels
a day by the IEA, will narrow as the year progresses as demand
picks up and the embargo on Iran constrains supplies, BNP’s
Tchilinguirian said.  Oil inventories in industrialized nations rose above their
five-year average for the first time since May 2011 amid higher-
than-required OPEC production, the agency said.  Rising Inventories  Stockpiles held by companies in the 34 nations that make up
the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development climbed
13.5 million barrels to 2.6 billion in March, according to the
report. Inventories equate to about 60.3 days’ worth of
consumption, or 3 days more than their seasonal five-year norm.  OPEC, responsible for about 40 percent of global output,
bolstered production by 410,000 barrels a day to 31.85 million
barrels last month, amid higher output from Iraq, Nigeria and
 Libya , according to the IEA. That leaves the group’s output at
about 2.3 million more than is needed in the second quarter.  “OPEC production is substantially above the underlying
requirement for its oil for the year, and the market has taken a
degree of comfort from that,”  David Fyfe , Paris-based head of
the IEA’s markets and industry division, said by mobile
telephone. “But it would be dangerous to assume it’s a
completely comfortable market given the uncertainty about non-
OPEC supply.”  The IEA reduced assessments for supplies from outside OPEC
in 2012 by 100,000 barrels a day because of lower estimates for
Brazilian production. Non-OPEC producers such as  Canada ,  Brazil 
and  Russia  will increase output by 600,000 barrels a day to 53.3
million a day this year.  While tapping its emergency stockpiles is “an option
that’s on the table” if any of the current political risks
trigger a supply disruption, “as we stand there’s no specific
plan” to release reserves, Fyfe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on 
 sev@bloomberg.net  