-- Linamar Outpaces Magna in Canada Auto Recovery Race
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-05-11T20:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/linamar-outpaces-magna-in-canada-auto-recovery-race.html
Canada is home to the largest auto
parts maker in North America and one of its smallest. So far
this year, the promise of expansion is helping  Linamar Corp. (LNR) 
outperform Magna International Inc., a company 10 times its size
in sales, as both warm to an auto sector recovery.  Linamar has  outpaced  Magna this year by 26 percentage
points and investors are paying a 23 percent  premium  for the
Guelph, Ontario-based company’s earnings over Magna, the highest
since March 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Linamar
traded at a 49 percent discount to Magna, based in Aurora,
Ontario, on Dec. 17, 2010.  “It reflects Linamar’s stronger growth potential,” David Tyerman, managing director of research at Canaccord Genuity
Corp. in Toronto, said in an e-mailed response to questions. The
company has a “very large new business backlog and rebounding
non-auto business, especially Skyjack,” which makes telescopic
forklifts and aerial work platforms, he said.  The automotive sector has shown a recovery this year after
the predecessors of Chrysler Group LLC. and General Motors Co.
were bailed out by the U.S. and Canadian governments in 2009.
North American light-vehicle production rose 17 percent in the
first quarter to 3.97 million units, according to researcher IHS
Automotive. Toyota Motor Corp. said May 8 that deliveries will
increase by 18 percent this year, led by  North America  where
sales will climb 26 percent to 2.35 million autos.  Vehicle Mix  “In addition to rising production volumes in North
America, Linamar should benefit from trends in vehicle mix”
away from full size SUVs, Steve Arthur, an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Toronto, wrote in a report yesterday.  Guelph, Ontario-based Linamar reported first quarter
earnings May 9 of C$39.6 million ($39.4 million), or 61 cents
per share, up from C$24.9 million during the same period last
year. The adjusted EPS of 59 cents beat the average  estimate  of
six analysts by 10 cents.  Revenue increased 24 percent to a record C$840 million from
C$675 million because of higher U.S. demand for the engines and
transmissions it makes for the major automakers, improved
margins and new business gains in Europe. The company bought the
Famer Group in  France , a new plant in  Germany  and expanded sites
in Mexico and  Hungary , it said in a statement.  The company’s industrial division swung to profitability
with a 113 percent gain in revenue to C$141 million because of
fleet replacements and better margins, the company said.  “Recent signals point to continued growth in this
segment,” Arthur wrote. The division should add C$25 million
this year to earnings before interest, depreciation and
amortization and C$43 million next year, he said.  Sales Growth  “Earnings growth is outpacing sales growth driving better
margins, the industrial segment is solidly back into profit and
all of that is driving great improvements” in return on capital
employed and return on equity, Linamar Chief Executive Officer
Linda Hazenfratz, who owns 5.8 percent of the company, said.  Justin Wu, an analyst based in Toronto at GMP Securities
LP, said he was keeping a “buy” rating on the stock and
raising his target price to C$27 from C$22. The shares rose 2.1
percent to close at C$21.32 in Toronto today. They have gained
52 percent this year.  “We continue to expect strong revenue and earnings growth
driven by a substantial number of program launches, and a
palpable cyclical recovery in its industrial segment,” Wu
wrote.  Magna (MG) , which had sales of $28.7 billion last year compared
with C$2.86 billion for Linamar, rose the most in two months
yesterday after it reported that first-quarter profit gained 6.5
percent and it improved a full-year sales forecast.  Better Margins  Net income rose to $343 million, or $1.46 a share, from
$322 million, or $1.30, a year earlier, Magna said.  “North American and European margins exceeded
expectations” with the adjusted earnings per share of $1.46
“handily beating our $1.24 and consensus $1.31,” analyst
Arthur wrote in a note yesterday.  Magna fell 1.7 percent to close at C$42.92 in Toronto. The
shares are up 26 percent this year.  Revenue advanced by 6.6 percent to $7.67 billion. The
average estimate of nine analysts was for sales of $7.49
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Output Forecast  Magna, which operates about 269 plants in 25 countries,
increased its North American production forecast to 14.4 million
vehicles from 13.8 million vehicles in February and lowered
volume expectations for  Europe . Its annual sales forecast rose
to as much as $30.5 billion from a Feb. 24 projection of as much
as $29.5 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Don Walker said Magna is looking at
“a number” of potential acquisitions. The company ended the
quarter with $1.27 billion in cash.  While the company typically has made acquisitions of
companies with $600 million in annual revenue, spending $200
million to $250 million, it is willing to spend much more,
Walker told reporters yesterday after the annual meeting in
Toronto.  “If we can get technology or gain business with a customer
we want to grow with, we’ll certainly look at it,” Walker said.
“There are a number we’re looking at right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  