-- India Factory Output Unexpectedly Shrinks as Rupee Slides
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-05-11T12:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/india-s-industrial-production-unexpectedly-contracted-in-march.html
Indian industrial production
unexpectedly contracted in March as weaker domestic demand and
tumbling exports hurt the economy, undermining the central
bank’s efforts to shore up a sliding rupee.  Production at factories, utilities and mines declined 3.5
percent from a year earlier, the  Central Statistical Office  said
in a statement in New Delhi today, compared with a 4.1 percent
increase in February. The median of 32 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 1.7 percent gain.  The report may stoke concern  India ’s outlook has worsened
because of trade and fiscal deficits, political gridlock,
elevated inflation and the threat to global growth from  Europe ’s
debt crisis. The risks have pushed the nation’s currency toward
a record low, prompting the central bank to say yesterday
exporters must convert half their foreign-currency earnings into
rupees as it stepped up efforts to check the decline.  “The contraction in output data reconfirms weakening
demand both domestically and externally,” said Radhika Rao, an
economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “Even though growth is
slowing, from the policy perspective, the focus will be more on
inflation, especially due to the impact of the huge decline in
the rupee on prices.”  The currency weakened 0.4 percent to 53.635 per dollar at
the close. It is down 16.7 percent in the past year, the most in
 Asia . The BSE India Sensitive Index slid 0.8 percent. The yield
on the 8.79 percent note due November 2021 rose one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.57 percent.  Interest Rates  The central bank lowered  interest rates  last month for the
first time since 2009, by 50 basis points to 8 percent, to
bolster spending at home. It also flagged price pressures from
the fiscal deficit, energy costs and a weaker rupee.  “We are in a scenario where the tendency for  interest
rates  is going to be downwards,” central bank Deputy Governor
Subir Gokarn said in the southern Indian city of Bangalore
today. “The pace and the magnitude is obviously going to be
determined by how inflation goes but the direction is now fairly
evident.”  The deputy governor also said the monetary authority will
continue to try and curb volatility in the rupee.  Manufacturing contracted 4.4 percent in March from a year
earlier after a 3.9 percent advance in February, today’s report
showed. Mining fell 1.3 percent, compared with a 2.7 percent
gain in the previous month. Electricity output rose 2.7 percent.  ‘Very Bad’  The latest industrial production report is “very bad,”
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said in  New Delhi  today,
adding the recovery in investment remains frail.  Inflation, as measured by the benchmark wholesale-price
index, moderated to a 29-month low of 6.67 percent in April,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
ahead of a report due next week.  While the gauge has cooled after the Reserve Bank raised
rates by a record 3.75 percentage points from mid-March 2010 to
October last year, India still has the highest inflation in the
so-called BRIC group of biggest  emerging markets  that also
includes Brazil, Russia and  China .  The central bank’s scope to cut interest rates further to
boost growth is constrained by the threat of price increases,
Ashima Goyal, a member of the bank’s technical advisory
committee, said in an interview in Mumbai on May 8.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has also
cut the amount of deposits lenders must set aside as reserves
twice this year by a combined 125 basis points, to 4.75 percent,
to ease cash shortages in the banking system.  Asia’s third-largest economy probably expanded 6.9 percent
in the 12 months through March 2012, the least in three years,
government estimates show. Merchandise exports rose 3.2 percent
in April from a year earlier, after shrinking 5.71 percent in
March, according to commerce ministry data.  Faltering efforts to liberalize the economy and uncertainty
over tax changes have also damaged sentiment. Standard & Poor’s
cut India’s credit outlook to negative from stable last month,
putting at risk its investment grade status.  Steel production by companies including Tata Steel Ltd.,
the biggest producer of the alloy, grew 2.3 percent in March
from a year earlier, slower than the 4.7 gain in February, the
commerce ministry said in an April 30 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 