-- Indonesian Search Team Prepares to Airlift Crash Bodies
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2012-05-11T12:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/indonesian-search-team-prepares-to-airlift-crash-bodies.html
Bad weather forced an Indonesian
search and rescue team to pause operations until tomorrow where
a Russian-made Sukhoi SuperJet 100 crashed into a mountainside
two days ago. Twelve bodies have been recovered, and no
survivors have been found among the 45 that were on board.  The group of about 90 searchers cut through tropical jungle
for more than a day yesterday, halting overnight before
reaching the site today, Daryatmo, head of National Search and
Rescue Agency, said at a press briefing today. Helicopter
operations, which have been hampered by weather and difficult
terrain, will resume tomorrow, he said.  “The evacuation preparation takes time as we’re talking
about a vertical rescue,” Gagah Prakoso, a spokesman for the
agency, said in a telephone interview today. He said the bodies
may still be removed over ground.  A command post was set up in Cidahu to stage rescue efforts
to the crash site on Mount Salak in West Java. About 600 people,
including military and police, have been deployed in the search
since the evening of May 9. As many as nine helicopters are on
standby near the location, Prakoso said.  The aircraft’s data recorder has yet to be found, and the
plane was probably not transmitting signals when it crashed,
Prakoso said yesterday. The plane, which was conducting a
promotional flight, disappeared from radar screens May 9 about
20 minutes after takeoff, carrying potential customers and
journalists.  Femi Adi, a Bloomberg News reporter, is believed to have
been among the passengers on the plane.  Russian Experts  The SuperJet disappeared after the crew asked air-traffic
control for permission to descend to 6,000 feet from 10,000 feet,
according to Daryatmo. The pilots didn’t explain the change of
course. The weather was slightly rainy and there were no obvious
signs of trouble, Daryatmo said.  A team from  Russia  made up of Yury Slyusar, the head of
aviation at the industry and trade ministry, Sukhoi
representatives and the transportation safety agency arrived in
 Indonesia  last night. Indonesian authorities will lead the
investigation with help from the Russian transport safety agency,
Tatang Kurniadi, who heads the National Transportation Safety
Committee, said in Jakarta yesterday.  The plane was on an Asian sales tour, which had included
stops in Myanmar, Pakistan and  Kazakhstan . Further appearances
were planned in Laos and  Vietnam , according to Olga Kayukova, a
spokeswoman for Sukhoi owner.  Criminal Probe  Russia opened a criminal probe into the crash, Interfax
reported, citing the country’s Investigative Committee. Prime
Minister Dmitry Medvedev also ordered an investigation by the
Industry Ministry, Foreign Ministry and state-controlled
planemaker United Aircraft Corp.  The crash was probably caused by human error, acting Deputy
Prime Minister  Dmitry Rogozin  told reporters in Nizhny Tagil, a
Ural Mountains city, yesterday. Sukhoi has said that the jet was
commanded by a “very experienced crew.”  The plane had no technical defects before the crash,
Mikhail Pogosyan, head of Moscow-based manufacturing group
United Aircraft Corp., said at a press briefing today at Halim
Perdana airport, from where the aircraft took off.  The SuperJet has a “great future,” Rogozin said. Russia’s
Industry and Trade Ministry also sees no need to suspend flights,
Interfax said yesterday, citing a ministry statement.  The twin-engine aircraft is spearheading attempts to revive
Russia’s aerospace industry, which has languished since the
 Soviet Union  collapsed in 1991. The plane, which can carry about
100 people, was developed with  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s Alenia
Aeronautica SpA. It has an operating range of as much as 4,578
kilometers (2,845 miles).  The plane is a challenger to regional jets built by
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and  Embraer SA. (EMBR3) , as well as to models being
developed by Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China and Mitsubishi
Aircraft Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ; 