-- ING’s Bailout to Be Re-Examined by EU Regulators
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-05-12T11:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/ing-s-bailout-to-be-re-examined-by-eu-competition-regulators.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s rescue by the Dutch
government will be re-examined by European Union competition
regulators after a court overturned some of the EU’s conditions
for approval of the aid.  The European Commission yesterday challenged a March ruling
by the EU’s General Court that partly annulled the agency’s
earlier decision to authorize ING’s bailout. The commission also
gave temporary approval to the ING rescue based on the bank and
insurer’s original 2009 plan, while opening a probe to examine
whether ING could replace a commitment to sell WestlandUtrecht
Bank by 2013.  “Since the original decision the plan has revealed some
implementation problems that must be assessed in an additional
thorough analysis,” said  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust
chief. “I am confident that they can be settled together with
the Dutch authorities.”  ING, the biggest Dutch financial-services company, was
ordered by the commission to sell units to shrink its balance
sheet by 45 percent by the end of 2013 and avoid undercutting
rivals on prices for some banking products for three years or
until it repaid the aid of 10 billion euros ($13 billion)
granted in 2008. The lender returned 5 billion euros of aid in
2009 after agreeing with the Netherlands on revised terms. The
EU regulator earlier determined that change amounted to extra
aid of about 2 billion euros.  ‘Carefully Assess’  ING will “carefully assess” the EU’s decisions “as well
as their consequences,” said Raymond Vermeulen, a spokesman for
ING.  “We have recently informed the European Commission that
we’ll submit an amended and updated restructuring plan and we
look forward to a constructive dialogue” with the Dutch
government and EU regulators “to resolve the outstanding
issues,” Vermeulen said.  Ben Feiertag, a spokesman for The Hague-based Dutch  finance
ministry , said the government will study the details of the EU’s
decisions. The Netherlands “will engage in a constructive
dialogue” with the EU on the bank’s restructuring, he said.  The new investigation will also cover ING’s pricing
behavior in  Italy  to check if ING was able to undercut rivals as
a result of Dutch government help, the commission said.  Repayment Terms  The Brussels-based authority will also check the bank’s
repayment terms for its state recapitalization. This stems from
an agreement that the Dutch government would renotify the aid if
ING didn’t pay coupons to the state for two years.  ING didn’t pay the coupons in 2010 and 2011 “thereby
triggering the renotification,” the commission said yesterday.  Almunia expects ING will agree on compensation for not
paying coupons even as it reported profits, Dutch newspaper Het
Financieele Dagblad reported today, citing an interview.  The EU’s appeal to the  European Court  of Justice, the
region’s highest court, will argue that regulators didn’t have
to check whether a government granting aid to a bank would make
the same decisions as a private investor. A market investor
“would not have subscribed to the capital of ING under the
conditions accepted by the state in the first place,” it said.
Regulators also complained that the ruling went too far by
annulling the entire decision based on this point.  EU governments spent 1.6 trillion euros to shore up banks
from 2008 to 2010 amid the financial crisis that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to the
commission, most of that in loan guarantees and fresh capital.
The EU must approve large state subsidies and can impose
conditions on the aid.  Insurance Operations  ING agreed to sell its entire insurance operations, its
U.S. online-banking division and Dutch mortgage lender
WestlandUtrecht Bank before a 2013 deadline.  ING has indicated the sale of WestlandUtrecht Bank, which
relies on its parent for its financing, is difficult under new
 capital requirements  imposed upon banks.  ING’s Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen told analysts in
February that it wasn’t possible to sell the unit and the bank
had suggested alternatives to the EU. He didn’t specify what
those were.  The EU will study ING’s suggestions, including an
integration of WestlandUtrecht Bank in its Dutch Nationale-
Nederlanden insurance unit, Het Financieele Dagblad reported,
citing Almunia.  WestlandUtrecht Bank accounts for about 20 percent to 25
percent of ING’s 142 billion euros of Dutch mortgages
outstanding. ING is the second-biggest Dutch mortgage lender.  In February, ING completed the sale of its U.S. online bank
to Capital One for $9 billion. The company also disposed of its
Latin American insurance operations last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels via 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net 
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  