-- Mitsubishi Electric Told by Jury It Owes Grail $124 Million
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-05-11T01:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/mitsubishi-electric-told-by-jury-it-owes-grail-124-million-2-.html
Mitsubishi Electric & Electronics USA
Inc. was ordered by a California state court jury in  San Jose  to
pay Grail Semiconductor Inc. $124 million in a breach-of-
contract lawsuit.  Mitsubishi Electric disclosed Grail’s confidential
information for a memory chip to an affiliate company,
Mitsubishi-Japan, and a jointly owned Japanese company, Renesas,
Raymond P. Niro, a lawyer representing Grail, said in a phone
interview.  Today’s verdict is the seventh-largest jury award in the
U.S. so far in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The largest, for $900 million, was awarded by a Florida jury to
a nursing home resident who suffered multiple injuries from
untreated bed sores.  “We believe that the decisions on liability and damages
are fundamentally flawed and that Mitsubishi Electric &
Electronics USA Inc. will be fully vindicated,” David S.
Elkins, a lawyer representing Mitsubishi Electric, a unit of
Tokyo-based  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503) , said in an e-mail.  Grail co-founder Donald Stern met with a team from
Mitsubishi Electric in April 2001 in San Jose and “disclosed
technology for a memory chip,” Niro said. Mitsubishi Electric
“took the information, introduced it and captured the market,”
Niro said.  Grail and Stern sued, claiming Mitsubishi Electric used the
technology on memory chips it introduced in 2004, Niro said.  The case is Grail Semiconductor Inc. v. Mitsubishi Electric
& Electronics USA Inc., 1-07-cv-098590, Santa Clara County
Superior Court (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in
Detroit at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net 
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  