-- Mitt Romney’s Cranbrook: The Untold Story
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-05-11T19:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/mitt-romney-s-cranbrook-the-untold-story.html
How well I remember the day many
years ago that I was walking through the quad at Cranbrook
School in  Bloomfield Hills ,  Michigan .  Suddenly I heard a voice shouting, “There he is, the
bastard!” It was  Mitt Romney , who went on: “He’s the guy who
favors health insurance reform with an” -- he spat out the words
-- “individual mandate. Let’s get him, boys.” I tried to outrun
them, but soon enough I was pinned to the ground as they whipped
me with the brochures I had been handing out and said things
like, “You want to cover pre-existing conditions? We’ll show you
some pre-existing conditions.…”  I have been wracking my brain for some memories of life at
Cranbrook, which I attended during the 1960s, as did Mitt
Romney. As everyone knows, the Washington Post  has reported  that
Romney once led a gang of bullies who held down an unpopular
fellow student and forcibly cut his hair. Did this really
happen? And if so, should the antics of a teenager 40 years ago
affect our assessment of Romney as a potential president of the
 United States ?  Apparently it did happen. The Post has five witnesses, and
Romney doesn’t deny it. Or rather, in what we are coming to see
as his characteristic style, he neither admits it nor denies it
but has issued a  shifting series of apologies  that add up to an
impatient plea of “nolo contendere” -- roughly translated as,
“Whatever, let’s move on.”  The Post makes Cranbrook seem like a military academy,
where one student could actually take offense at another’s
haircut. The Romney camp would rather paint it as “Animal
House,” where cruel pranks were actually all in good fun.  I would say it was somewhere between these two extremes.
The teaching was excellent but there was no cult of academic
rigor. Believe it or not I was unaware of the concept of a “prep
school” until I got to college and met kids from Andover and
Choate. It was a place you went if your parents cared more about
your education than belonging to a country club -- or that’s how
I saw it. I can’t speak for Mitt.  And what about bullying? Was this just one unfortunate
teenaged episode? Is the Romney of today a completely different
person who has nothing in common with his younger self? Let me
recount a few other episodes that might cast light on this
question. In fact, it’s clear that Romney has stayed remarkably
consistent throughout the years.  As I recall, it was important policy issues like health
care reform, rather than purposeful cruelty or the length of
someone’s hair, which drove Romney to organize posses and take
matters into his own hands. Any defense of the federal deficit
enraged him. Overregulation in any field could lead him to call
out the dogs. One questioned so-called “right to work” laws or
said anything favorable about unions at one’s peril. In fact,
any remark that indicated a favorable attitude toward  Washington 
could produce a sneering riposte (“If you think Washington is so
great, why don’t you just go there, you creep?”) and another
torrent of abuse. One of his favorite insults was: “Your mother
is an assistant secretary of agriculture! Take it back? Make me,
you future federal bureaucrat. And screw the pandas.”  Mitt, as a natural leader, used the skills that would later
prove so useful in business in order to build consensus (then
known as “team spirit”) on campus. I remember the time Mitt
gathered us all in a nearby Episcopal church to say that Mormons
and other Christians should join together in their shared
dislike of homosexuals -- “and dweebs,” he added. “Look, boys --
there’s one now. Let’s go!”  Or maybe I just imagined all that. It’s been a long time.  At Cranbrook (and this part is really true) we were all
required to write a “theme” a week: about 1,000 words on an
established cycle of topics -- autobiographical article,
informal essay, formal essay, light verse, serious verse, and so
on. Decades later, this is essentially how I make my living:
about 1,000 words a week on a recycling list of topics: the
national debt, abortion, capital punishment, global warming,
nuclear winter,  North Korea ,  South Korea , and so on. I can only
hope that my scribblings have long since been destroyed. Romney
probably hopes so even more.  Romney was three years ahead of me at Cranbrook. I barely
knew him, and he didn’t know me at all. I should have been
paying more attention. My complete lack of anecdotes about
someone I attended a very small school with for three years --
and who I should have guessed might pop up again in the wider
world -- is a professional embarrassment that has left me no
choice but to make some up, including all of those above. I
apologize to my readers for this, but I really had no choice.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 