-- Johnson Snubbed as JFK’s Body Left Plane: Lewis Lapham
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2012-05-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/johnson-snubbed-as-jfk-s-body-left-plane-lewis-lapham.html
When  Lyndon Johnson  took the oath of
office on Air Force One, he made sure that at his side was
President Kennedy’s widow, Jacqueline, still in her blood-
stained pink suit.  (To listen to the podcast, click  here .)  On the flight back to Washington D.C., Johnson sat in the
President’s chair, making notes: “1) Staff; 2) Cabinet; 3)
Leadership.” At a time of such grief and uncertainty for the
country, he knew it was important to take charge right away.  When the plane arrived at Andrews Air Force Base, Robert Kennedy slipped aboard and took over. The two had been involved
in one of the great political feuds of the 20th century, with
 Robert Kennedy  humiliating the vice president at every turn.  As America watched on television, a truck lift pulled up to
the rear door and the dead president’s big bronze coffin,
accompanied by his widow and brother, was loaded onto it.
Lowered to the ground, the coffin and the Kennedys were driven
away by a Navy hearse.  When Lyndon Johnson and the new First Lady approached the
rear door, expecting to follow the body down, there were no
stairs. They were stranded at the top, and when they finally did
make their descent, no one paid any attention.  I spoke with  Robert Caro , Pulitzer Prize-winning author of
“The Years of Lyndon Johnson: The Passage of Power,” on the
following topics:  1. Assassination  2. Mr. President  3. Robert Kennedy Feud  4. Kennedy Team to Stay  5. “Let Us Continue”  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  Muse highlights include a preview of the  best weekend
events  in NYC and a  theater  review.  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in  New York  at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 