-- John Edwards’s Bid to Dismiss Criminal Case Denied by Judge
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   J o h n   P e r a g i n e
-- 2012-05-11T17:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/john-edwards-s-bid-to-dismiss-criminal-case-denied-by-judge-1-.html
John Edwards  lost a bid for dismissal
of criminal charges arising from his alleged misuse of
presidential campaign funds to hide an extramarital affair.  U.S. District Judge Catherine Eagles today denied a defense
request she throw out the case, ruling prosecutors presented
sufficient proof to allow jurors at the federal courthouse in
Greensboro, North Carolina, to decide the former senator’s fate.
The trial started on April 23.  Edwards, 58, the 2004 Democratic vice presidential
candidate, was accused of illegally using almost $1 million in
campaign contributions to hide his affair with filmmaker Rielle Hunter as he sought to be his party’s 2008 presidential nominee.
Edwards also has a child with Hunter, who was hired as a
videographer for his campaign.  “John Edwards did not drop out of the sky in 2007 into a
world of campaign finance he knew nothing about,” prosecutor
David Harbach told Eagles today as he opposed the dismissal bid.  Edwards has maintained his innocence, asserting that the
funds in question weren’t campaign donations and came from his
friendships with a 101-year-old multimillionaire heiress, Rachel Mellon, and  Fred Baron , a now-deceased trial attorney.  His attorneys have said they will present evidence in his
defense. The trial is set to resume on May 14.  “There’s one gaping hole in all the accounts,” defense
attorney Abbe Lowell argued today, “that Mr. Edwards took any
action that violated the law or that he had knowledge that he
was violating the law.”  Eagles, a former state court judge, was appointed to the
federal bench by President  Barack Obama , a Democrat.  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of North Carolina (Greensboro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
John Peragine in Greensboro,  North Carolina , at   drjohnnd@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  