-- Fitch Cuts JPMorgan Rating as S&P Calls Outlook Negative
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-05-12T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/jpmorgan-credit-rating-reduced-by-fitch-on-2-billion-loss-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest and
most profitable U.S. bank, had its credit grade lowered one
level by  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  said it may follow
after the bank revealed a $2 billion trading loss.  The lender’s long-term issuer default rating was cut to A+
from AA-, and the short-term grade was lowered to F1 from F1+,
Fitch said yesterday in a statement. Fitch placed all parent and
subsidiary long-term ratings on rating watch negative.  Standard & Poor’s cited the possibility of broader problems
with JPMorgan’s hedging strategies, which the credit rater said
isn’t “consistent with what we have viewed as the company’s
sound risk-management practices.” A downgrade might result if
the missteps prove to be wider, or if management “is pursuing a
more aggressive investment strategy than we originally
believed” and misses financial targets, according to an S&P
statement. S&P affirmed JPMorgan’s A rating.  JPMorgan announced the loss linked to synthetic credit
securities on May 10. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  told
analysts that the New York-based firm’s chief investment office
took flawed positions tied to the investments that may cost an
additional $1 billion this quarter or next.  “The magnitude of the loss and ongoing nature of these
positions implies a lack of liquidity,” Fitch said. “It also
raises questions regarding JPM’s risk appetite, risk management
framework, practices and oversight.”  JPMorgan is under review by Moody’s Investors Service for a
possible two-level downgrade. The credit rater said in February
it was examining 17 lenders and securities firms with global
capital-market operations.  Downgrade’s Consequences  A downgrade could raise borrowing costs and oblige the
firms to put up more cash for collateral calls and termination
payments tied to derivatives contracts. Collateral calls were
blamed in the 2008 credit crisis for draining cash and driving
firms toward failure.  Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS AG may be
reduced three levels, Moody’s said. Analysts said before Dimon
spoke that the industry-wide cuts could push more business to
JPMorgan, Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche
Bank AG because they’d be left with some of the highest grades
if Moody’s goes through with all its maximum reductions.  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for JPMorgan, didn’t
immediately return a message requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  