-- JPMorgan, BofA Among Banks Forming Currency Trading Group
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-11T17:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/jpmorgan-bofa-among-banks-forming-currency-trading-group-1-.html
Six banks, including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and Bank of America Corp., have formed a group designed to
facilitate foreign-exchange market trading for institutional
clients.  FXSpotStream LLC, a subsidiary of LiquidityMatch LLC, was
started in the U.S. April 30, Chief Executive Officer Alan F.
Schwarz confirmed in a telephone interview. The company will
provide a currency-price aggregation service to the clients of
Bank of America, Citigroup Inc., Commerzbank AG, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and JPMorgan. The banks are
majority shareholders in FXSpotStream.  “Clients access a single interface from co-location sites
in  New York ,  London  and Tokyo and have the potential to
communicate with all liquidity-providing banks connected to the
FXSpotStream solution,” Schwarz said in a release.  The service will begin June 1 in  Europe  and Aug. 31 in
Asia, he said. It will not charge brokerage fees to clients.  “SpotStream is another market utility and it’s a means for
us to efficiently connect with our clients and continue to
maintain bilateral relationships,”  Richard Anthony , global head
of foreign-exchange electronic risk at HSBC in London, said in a
telephone interview.  Fergal Walsh, co-head of foreign-exchange electronic
trading at Citigroup in New York, said the service would
eliminate brokerage fees often paid by banks when a third party
is involved in transactions with clients.  “We are in an extremely competitive market now, our
spreads are incredibly tight, and broker costs can make up a
significant part of our margins,” Walsh said in a telephone
interview. “In an effort to control those, and also give a more
efficient service to our clients, we are happy to participate in
this solution.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, offers
electronic  currency trading .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  