-- Eaton Credit Swaps Jump on $11.8 Billion Cooper Takeover Plans
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-05-21T21:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/jpmorgan-credit-swaps-hold-at-about-highest-level-since-february.html
Eaton Corp. (ETN) ’s credit-default swaps
increased to the most since December as the power-management
company agreed to buy  Cooper Industries Plc (CBE)  for $11.8 billion.  The cost to  protect  against losses on debt of the
Cleveland-based company jumped 10.9 basis points to a mid-price
of 96.9 basis points at 3:40 p.m. in New York, according to CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. The swaps are at the
highest level since they were 97.9 basis points on Dec. 1.  The contracts linked to Eaton surged as the company, which
received bridge financing for $6.75 billion, said in a statement
it plans to refinance the borrowing through debt issuance, cash
on hand and a possible sale of assets. The company has $3.35
billion of bonds outstanding, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Additional financial leverage adds risk to bondholders,”
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  credit analyst Rick Tauber said in a telephone
interview. “I would expect a ratings downgrade of one to two
notches due to the magnitude of the change.”  Eaton is rated A3, four levels above junk grade, by Moody’s
Investors Service and an equivalent A- by  Standard & Poor’s .
Both ratings firms announced today that they have placed the
company on review for a possible downgrade. Eaton said it is
targeting a return to an A  credit rating  for its long-term debt
in a presentation for investors.  ‘Disciplined and Focused’  “The fact that they want to achieve a mid-A rating tells
me they will be disciplined and focused toward doing that,”
Tauber said. “But they would have to turn off their acquisition
spigot.” Eaton had announced the acquisition of Jeil Hydraulics
Co. in April and Istanbul-based Polimer Kaucuk Sanayi ve
Pazarlama A.S. in February, Bloomberg data show.  A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk fell from
the highest level of the year as China pledged to take measures
to boost economic growth.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, dropped 5.5 basis points to a mid-price of
117.9 basis points at 5:31 p.m., Bloomberg prices show. The
index had closed at 123.4 last week, the highest since Dec. 21.  The gauge declined as Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said over
the weekend that the country will focus on bolstering growth.
Economic expansion in the world’s second-largest economy is
critical for American corporations relying on international
activity to expand sales and improve balance sheets.  Technical Rally  “It was mostly a technical driven rally,” Randy Woodbury,
a fixed-income credit trader at  Des Moines , Iowa-based Principal
Global Investors said. “People who had bought protection on the
index had made some money in the last two weeks and had decided
to take that bet off and close their positions.”  The fall in the swaps gauge does not indicate that it will
tighten appreciably in the near term, John Tierney, a credit
markets strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a telephone
interview. “The markets are going to stay on edge for the next
two months.”  The swaps index typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Swaps contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  