-- JPMorgan Loses $2 Billion on Unit’s ‘Egregious Mistakes’
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i ,   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-12T00:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/jpmorgan-loses-2-billion-as-mistakes-trounce-hedges.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the firm suffered a $2 billion trading
loss after an “egregious” failure in a unit managing risks,
jeopardizing Wall Street banks’ efforts to loosen a federal ban
on bets with their own money.  The firm’s chief investment office, run by Ina Drew, 55,
took flawed positions on synthetic credit securities that remain
volatile and may cost an additional $1 billion this quarter or
next, Dimon told analysts yesterday. Losses mounted as JPMorgan
tried to mitigate transactions designed to hedge credit
exposure.  “There were many errors, sloppiness and bad judgment,”
Dimon said as the company’s stock fell in extended trading.
“These were egregious mistakes, they were self-inflicted.”  The chief investment office was thrust into the debate over
U.S. efforts to ban proprietary trading when Bloomberg News
reported last month that the unit had taken bets so big that
JPMorgan, the largest and most profitable U.S. bank, probably
couldn’t unwind them without losing money or roiling financial
markets. Dimon, 56, had transformed the unit in recent years to
make bigger and riskier speculative trades with the bank’s
money, five former employees said.  SEC Investigation  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission opened a
preliminary investigation into JPMorgan’s disclosures related to
the trades, according to a person briefed on the probe who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the matter isn’t public.  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority, which regulates
banks, is examining the role London employees played in the
loss, according to two people familiar with the talks. The
agency hasn’t opened a formal investigation and there was no
evidence of criminal activity, these people said. The loss
originated out of the firm’s London CIO unit, an executive at
the bank said.  “I think it will weigh on the sector pretty bad,” said
 Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington,
Virginia. Miller and Christopher Mutascio at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. downgraded their recommendations on the shares today.
“Investors are going to say that these are general big black
boxes that can’t be analyzed, not even the management companies
understand what they’re doing themselves.”  Dimon had defended the Chief Investment Office as a
“sophisticated” guardian of the bank’s funds on an April 13
conference call, calling news coverage “a complete tempest in a
teapot.” On May 2, he led fellow Wall Street CEOs in a closed-
door meeting to lobby the  Federal Reserve  about softening
proposed U.S. reforms that might crimp their profits.  ‘Bunch of Pundits’  Yesterday, he said the timing of the trading blunders
“plays right into the hands of a bunch of pundits out there”
who are pushing for a strict version of the proprietary trading
ban named for former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker .  Given Dimon’s resistance to the ban and new regulations,
“he’s got a lot of egg on his face right now,” said Craig Pirrong, a finance professor at the  University of Houston . “Any
chance they had of getting a relative loosening of Volcker rule,
anything of that nature, that’s out the window.”  The chief investment office’s push into risk-taking was led
by Achilles Macris, 50, according to three former employees,
Bloomberg News reported on April 13. He was hired in 2006 as its
top executive in London and led an expansion into corporate and
mortgage-debt investments with a mandate to generate profits for
the New York-based bank, they said. Dimon closely supervised the
transition from its previous focus on protecting JPMorgan from
risks inherent in its banking business, such as interest-rate
and currency movements, they said.  ‘Talented People’  “I wouldn’t call it ‘more aggressive,’ I would call it
‘better,’” Dimon told analysts yesterday. “We added different
types of people, talented people and stuff like that.” Until
recently, they were careful and successful, he said.  “It’s classic Wall Street hubris, which we’ve seen so many
times before,” said  Simon Johnson , a former chief economist at
the  International Monetary Fund  who now teaches at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology . “What’s particularly
ironic here is that Jamie presents himself, and is believed by
others to be, the king of risk management.”  Bloomberg News first reported April 5 that London-based
JPMorgan trader Bruno Iksil had amassed positions linked to the
financial health of corporations that were so large he was
driving price moves in the $10 trillion market.  Multiple Traders  The $2 billion loss occurred in London under multiple
traders, according to an executive at the bank, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity. Dimon wasn’t immediately told about
their shift in strategy and didn’t know the magnitude of the
losses until after the company reported  earnings  April 13, the
executive said. As the position deteriorated rapidly, the bank
gathered internal analysts and examiners to investigate, and
Dimon grew more distressed by the day, the executive said.  While no one has been fired yet, Dimon told analysts he
will take “corrective actions.” The bank is keeping employees
involved on hand while it deals with the transactions, and some
are likely to lose their jobs afterward, said an executive with
knowledge of the situation. The bank is also reevaluating its
risk-monitoring team within the chief investment office, the
person said.  JPMorgan risks losing more money now because other market
participants will figure out what the bank has to do to unload
its position, said Charles Peabody, an analyst with Portales
Partners LLC in  New York . Costs from the trades may affect
earnings through the end of the year, he said.  Sharks to Blood  “When there’s blood in the water, the sharks are going to
attack that animal,” said Peabody, who downgraded his
recommendation on the stock in March to sector perform. “It
could make it very difficult for them to unwind a trade.”  JPMorgan shares, which closed at $40.74 yesterday, fell 8.4
percent to $37.30 at 8:52 a.m. in New York trading. The stock
had advanced 23 percent this year before the losses were
disclosed.  The cost of insuring debt of JPMorgan from default rose.
Credit-default swaps insuring JPMorgan’s debt climbed 17 basis
points to 124, the highest since Feb. 16, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is equivalent to a
hundredth of a percentage point.  Bonds of JPMorgan declined the most in six months, widening
the gap in yield between the lender’s $6 billion of undated 7.9
percent junior subordinated notes and the 0.875 percent Treasury
due 2018 by 16 basis points to 392.2 basis points, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices at 10:10 a.m. in  London . The price
of the note, callable in 2018, fell 2.2 cents on the dollar to
107.84 cents, pushing up the yield to 6.3 percent.  Credit Risks  Dimon declined on the call to discuss the specific
transactions or people involved. Synthetic credit products are
derivatives that generate gains and losses tied to credit
performance without the owner buying or selling actual debt.
JPMorgan used the instruments to hedge exposure on loans and
other credit risks to corporations, banks and sovereign
governments. The losses emerged after the firm tried to reduce
that position and unwind the portfolio, Dimon said.  The bank said losses were partly offset by gains from the
sales from its available-for-sale credit portfolio, resulting in
a net loss for the firm’s corporate division, which includes the
CIO, of about $800 million after taxes. Dimon said losses could
widen or narrow in coming weeks and months, and that he can’t
estimate potential costs.  Confirming Fears  As the bank repositions the synthetic credit portfolio, the
chief investment office “may hold certain of its current
synthetic credit positions for the longer term,” the firm said.  “Hopefully, this will not be an issue by the end of the
year, but it does depend on the decisions and the markets,”
Dimon said.  JPMorgan also changed how it calculates so-called value at
risk, or VAR, a measure of how much the company estimates it
could lose on securities on 95 percent of days. The company
restated its VAR for the first quarter, previously disclosed at
$67 million, at $129 million. The bank used a new model for
calculating its trading risk in the first quarter that Dimon
said was “inadequate.” It is reverting to the old model.  “It’s a major event that confirms a lot of investors’
worst fears about bank risk,” said  Frank Partnoy , a former
derivatives trader who’s now a law and finance professor at the
University of  San Diego . Concern is “that at a large,
supposedly sophisticated institution, even something called a
‘hedge’ can contain all kinds of hidden risks that the senior
people don’t understand.”  Difficult Exit  Iksil may have amassed a $100 billion position in contracts
on Series 9 of the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, counterparts at  hedge funds  and rival banks said in
April. They based their estimates on the trades and price
movements they witnessed as well as their understanding of the
size and structure of the markets. The positions amounted to
tens of billions of dollars, under the firm’s own math, a person
familiar with its view said at the time.  The trade on the index probably wasn’t a one-way bet, the
market participants said. Iksil may have offset it by buying
protection on the same index with contracts that expire about
seven months from now, the people said. That strategy would pay
JPMorgan the difference between the long-dated contracts and the
short-dated ones, and the trade would gain when the gap narrows.
The hedge would end in December unless another trade is made to
replace it.  Satyajit Das, the author of “Extreme Money: Masters of the
Universe and the Cult of Risk,” compared the publicity around
JPMorgan’s situation to losses that spiraled at hedge funds like
Long-Term Capital Management in 1998 and Amaranth Advisors LLC
in 2006.  “A $2 billion loss suggests a position of considerable
size,” Das said. “I think you remember LTCM and a few other
people like Amaranth that have had the exact same problem and
have learned it’s a bit like hell -- easy to get into, not so
easy to get out of.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  