-- JPMorgan Loss May Force Shift in Debate on Wall Street Rules
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-05-11T23:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/jpmorgan-losses-may-force-shift-in-debate-on-wall-street-rules.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $2 billion
trading loss has intensified the call for tighter regulation in
Washington, with presidential campaign officials weighing in
alongside lawmakers in response to the bank’s disclosure.  Any progress by financial-industry lobbyists in securing
changes to the Dodd-Frank Act’s proprietary-trading ban may have
been halted with the May 10 announcement by  Jamie Dimon ,
JPMorgan’s chairman and chief executive officer, said
Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat who co-
wrote the regulatory overhaul.  “They sensed some momentum in undercutting things, but
this strengthens our case strongly politically,” Frank said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “It tears a lot of holes in
Jamie’s arguments.”  In addition, New York-based JPMorgan is facing new
scrutiny, with lawmakers calling for hearings, Securities and
Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  saying her agency is
monitoring the bank. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission
planning to review the loss, according to a person briefed on
the matter.  Dimon, 56, has been a prominent critic of Dodd-Frank
provisions including the so-called Volcker rule, which is meant
to bar proprietary trading by banks with federally insured
deposits. In a conference call to discuss the losses stemming
from “egregious” failures in the bank’s chief investment
office, Dimon accurately forecast the Washington response.  ‘Very Unfortunate’  “It is very unfortunate,” Dimon said. “It plays right
into all the hands of a bunch of pundits out there.”  Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who leads
the Senate Banking Committee, said in a statement that the loss
underlines why “opponents of Wall Street reform must not be
allowed to gut important protections for the financial system
and taxpayers.” Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican who
serves on the committee, called yesterday for hearings on the
loss.  Sean Oblack, Johnson’s spokesman, said in a statement that
the Banking Committee is “waiting to learn more of the facts
before making a decision on a hearing.”  Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who co-wrote the
trading ban named for former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, said in a conference call with reporters that the loss
shows Dimon’s view to be “dramatically proven wrong.”  ‘Telling Moment’  “It’s a very telling moment and I guess we should thank
JPMorgan for exposing an area where we clearly need more
oversight,”  Jared Bernstein , former chief economist for Vice
President  Joe Biden , said yesterday.  Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Republican presidential
contender  Mitt Romney , said yesterday that the loss
“demonstrates the importance of oversight and transparency in
the derivatives market, something Governor Romney has called for
in the past.”  “As president, Governor Romney will push for common-sense
regulation that gives regulators tools to do their jobs, and
that gives investors more clarity,” Saul said in a statement.  Romney, a former private-equity executive who served as
Massachusetts governor, declined to answer questions about
JPMorgan during a campaign rally yesterday in  Charlotte , North
Carolina.  ‘Textbook Illustration’  Levin and Senator Jeff Merkley, the Oregon Democrat who co-
wrote the proprietary-trading provision, said yesterday during
their conference call that JPMorgan has become a “textbook
illustration” of why federal regulators should tighten the
restrictions being drafted in the Volcker rule.  “Four years after the downfall of Bear Stearns,  Lehman
Brothers  and the hundreds of billions in a bank bailout, we
still see that there is a nagging need for regulators to
implement financial reforms which became law in 2010,”  Bart Chilton , a Democrat on the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
said yesterday.  Wall Street firms such as JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have lobbied regulators including the
Fed, Securities and Exchange Commission and Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. to expand exemptions included in their initial
Volcker rule proposal, complaining that the measure is so broad
and ill-defined that it will increase risks for clients.  The rule would allow banks to continue activities that are
considered hedging, as well as to serve as market-makers,
accepting risk or holding shares of trades to facilitate client
orders. Levin and Merkley said JPMorgan’s loss shows the need
for a stricter interpretation of the hedging exemption included
in the draft proposal released in October.  Dimon has said the trade wouldn’t have run afoul of the
Volcker rule restrictions, which are scheduled to take effect on
July 21.  Frank said he planned to use the bank’s loss to defend the
law against efforts to roll back derivatives regulations and
force wider exemptions in the Volcker rule. He pointed to the
impact of the losses on Dimon, who has been the leading voice
against many of the regulations Frank put into place.  “This will diminish his ability to be that voice,” Frank
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  