-- Drew Built 30-Year JPMorgan Career Embracing Risk
-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2012-05-11T14:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/jpmorgan-s-drew-embraced-risk-before-egregious-loss.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Investment
Officer Ina R. Drew, head of the unit responsible for a $2
billion trading loss, built a 30-year career at the largest U.S.
bank by embracing risk and avoiding the spotlight.  “With everything she does, she thinks in terms of
trading,” said Stephen Murray, head of CCMP Capital Advisors
LLC, created from a JPMorgan private-equity unit in 2006.
“There are risk-lovers, there are risk-haters, and the best
traders will take the risk as long as they get paid for it.”  Drew’s operation, which helps manage the bank’s risk, has
been transformed under Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  to
make bigger speculative bets with the firm’s own money,
according to five former employees, Bloomberg News reported last
month. Some bets were so big JPMorgan probably couldn’t unwind
them without roiling markets, the former executives said.  The loss disclosed yesterday came after an “egregious”
investment-office failure tied to  credit derivatives , Dimon said
in a conference call. “In hindsight, the new strategy was
flawed, complex, poorly reviewed, poorly executed and poorly
monitored.”  Drew, 55, is one of two women who sit on the New York-based
firm’s operating committee. Her office oversees about $360
billion, the difference between money from deposits and what the
bank extends in loans. Dimon, 56, had pushed the unit to boost
profit by buying higher-yielding assets, including structured
credit, equities and derivatives, two former employees have
said. The shift to riskier bets underscores how blurry the line
can be between so-called proprietary trading and what banks say
is hedging.  Chemical Bank  Drew has overseen both kinds at the firm for decades. She
joined Chemical Banking Corp. in 1982 after graduating from
 Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore and receiving a master’s
degree from Columbia University’s School of International
Affairs, according to the bank.  When Chemical merged with Manufacturers Hanover Corp. in
1991, Drew was put in charge of managing U.S. interest-rate
risks and given oversight of discretionary trading positions,
according to a news release that year.  “Ina was all about risk-taking,” said Mark Schneiderman,
a former human resources manager at Chemical. “She was scary-
smart, she was very determined, she was very low-key compared to
the crazies that you find on a trading floor -- but very, very
determined.”  Petros Sabatacakis, a former chief risk officer for
Citigroup Inc. and now a director of the  National Bank of Greece
SA (ETE) , said he promoted her at Chemical.  “I don’t know what makes a good trader, but I could see
the results,” he said in an interview.  Long-Term Capital  Chemical merged with Chase Manhattan Corp. in 1996. Drew’s
work as head of Chase’s domestic treasury helped position the
firm for the collapse of hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management
LP two years later, according to an executive who worked with
her on risk management and stress tests. The person asked for
anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to speak. While Chase
reported record  earnings  for the fourth quarter of 1998, Drew
never sought publicity, the colleague said.  Drew, who was put in charge of JPMorgan’s chief investment
office in February 2005, received $14 million from the bank last
year, according to company filings. Dimon said yesterday that
the portfolio she managed almost doubled in recent years.  “I read somewhere that we made it more aggressive,” he
said yesterday. “I wouldn’t call it more aggressive, I would
call it better.”  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for JPMorgan
in New York, said Drew wouldn’t comment.  Corrective Action  John Farrell, a former human resources chief at JPMorgan,
said Drew would tell heads of the firm’s investment-banking and
trading businesses, “I don’t agree with that, and here’s what
we should be doing,” Farrell recalled. “And what we end up
doing was what Ina said.”  “Remember, the CIO has done a great job for a long,
extended period of time,” Dimon told analysts on the conference
call. “This was a unique thing we did.” While the trade had
been making money for the  bank , “it’s obvious at this point
that there were many errors, sloppiness and bad judgment.”  More than one trader was responsible for the losses that
originated from the unit’s London team, which reports to Drew in
 New York , according to an executive at the bank. The company is
reevaluating the risk-monitoring team within her unit as the
firm examines what happened, according to the executive, and
Dimon said yesterday that “corrective action” is coming.  Hubris played a role, said  Terry Connelly , former dean of
the Ageno School of Business at Golden Gate University in  San
Francisco  and an ex-managing director at Salomon Brothers Inc.
“There is a tendency when you are making money to think you
will always make money,” he said. “How does something get away
from you? Because it’s working.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  