-- Korean Won Climbs, Bonds Fall on IMF Forecast, Spain
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-05-11T06:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/korean-won-climbs-bonds-fall-on-imf-forecast-spain.html
South Korea’s won posted its biggest
weekly loss in five months and  government bonds  advanced as
political changes in  Europe  heightened concern the region’s debt
crisis will worsen, and Chinese data signaled a slowdown.  Greece’s political leaders enter a fifth day of talks today
to carve out a government following a May 6 election. French
Socialist Francois Hollande, who has called for a re-negotiation
of the budget-discipline pact crafted by European leaders, was
elected president.  China ’s industrial output rose 9.3 percent in
April from a year earlier, trailing forecasts, figures showed
today. The  Kospi (KOSPI)  Index closed at the lowest level since January
as global funds cut their holdings of Korean stocks by $1.5
billion this month through yesterday.  The won slid 1.3 percent this week to 1,146.55 per dollar at
the close in Seoul, the biggest drop since the five days ended
Dec. 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
fell 0.4 percent today. One-month implied volatility for the won,
a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, jumped
88 basis points, or 0.88 percentage point this week, to 8.26
percent.  “With issues in Europe and China data failing to meet
expectations, there was demand for the dollar especially from
overseas investors,” said Lee Jin Ill, a Seoul-based currency
dealer at Hana Bank. “There were relatively few South Korean
exporters selling the dollar.”  The  Bank of Korea  held its benchmark  interest rate  at 3.25
percent for an 11th month yesterday, citing a “mild” recession
in Europe. Consumer prices in China rose 3.4 percent from a year
earlier after a 3.6 percent gain in March, the National Bureau
of Statistics said today. That matched the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.25 percent bonds due December
2014 fell four basis points this week to 3.38 percent. The rate
dropped three basis points today. Three-year debt futures
climbed 0.15 to 104.51 and the one-year interest-rate swap
slipped two basis points for the week to 3.45 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  