-- Nabucco Timeline Linked to Production Start at Shah Deniz
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-05-11T13:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/nabucco-timeline-linked-to-production-start-at-shah-deniz.html
The Nabucco natural gas pipeline
intended to transport gas from the  Caspian region  to Europe has
linked its timeline with the start of production at the Shah
Deniz gas field.  The Nabucco Gas Pipeline International GmbH can build the
pipeline, which will run either from the Caspian via Turkey or
from the Bulgarian-Turkish border, in three to four years
“after a final  investment decision  is made,” spokesman
Christian Dolezal told reporters in Sofia today.  “The production field has a timeline of when they start
production and we want to align our efforts so that we can start
transport to the market without any delay as soon as the gas is
available from the Shah Deniz consortium,” Dolezal said.  Nabucco is competing for gas from Shah Deniz, with South
East Europe Pipeline, or SEEP, and the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline.
The group behind Shah Deniz which includes BP,  Statoil ASA (STL) ,
 Total SA (FP)  and the  State Oil Co. (ATPG)  of Azerbaijan, will select a
route by mid-2013, BP Vice President for Shah Deniz Al Cook said
in April.  Nabucco, which is a joint venture of Austria’s  OMV AG (OMV) ,
Germany’s  RWE AG (RWE) , Budapest-based  Mol Nyrt. (MOL) , Bulgargaz EAD,
Romania’s Transgaz SA and Ankara-based Boru Hatlari ile Petrol
Tasima AS, has faced repeated delays in the past eight years
after struggling to secure fuel sources. Mol said last month
that it isn’t prepared to finance the pipe and may sell its
stake.  “We appreciate to have Mol as our shareholder in the
projects, we have no written indication so far that the
shareholder wants to withdraw from the project,” Dolezal said.
“We have heard a few statements, but I’m not commenting on
those statements, there must be a decision made in the
consortium.”  Two Routes  Nabucco shareholders are discussing two versions of the
pipeline, the initial 3,900 kilometer (2,425 miles) running via
 Turkey  to Austria, estimated to cost 8 billion euros ($10
billion), and a shorter version, the so-called Nabucco West,
which will start at the Bulgarian-Turkish border. The second
option would be complimented by the planned Azeri-Turkish Trans-
Anatolia Pipeline, known as Tanap, Dolezal said.  “We will submit a formal proposal for a Nabucco West
option in the near future and then the shareholders of the Shah
Deniz consortium will decide which option will be more
appropriate for their purpose,” Dolezal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  