-- Nigeria’s Naira Advances as Oil Companies Said to Sell Dollars
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-05-11T13:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/nigeria-s-naira-advances-as-oil-companies-said-to-sell-dollars.html
Nigeria ’s naira strengthened, paring
a weekly loss, as  oil companies  were said to have sold dollars
in the market.  The currency of Africa’s biggest oil producer advanced 0.2
percent to 157.45 per dollar as of 2:15 p.m. on the  interbank
market  in Lagos, the commercial capital. The naira, which has
gained 3.1 percent this year, the strongest performer in Africa,
is heading for a decline of 0.1 percent this week.  “The release of funds from oil companies on the market”
is supporting the naira, Jide Solanke, an analyst at First
Securities Discount House Ltd., said by phone from Lagos today.  Oil companies are the second-biggest suppliers to the
market after the  Central Bank  of Nigeria, which manages the
naira by selling foreign currency to lenders in biweekly
auctions. The central bank, based in the capital Abuja,  sold 
$270 million to lenders this week, the same as a week earlier.  Yields on the West African nation’s Eurobonds due 2021 fell
four basis points, or 0.04 percent, to 5.301 percent. Borrowing
costs on Nigeria’s naira debt due 2015 fell five basis points to
14.96 percent, according to May 10 data on the Financial Markets
Dealers Association website.  Ghana ’s cedi slipped for a second day, retreating 0.3
percent to 1.886 per dollar in Accra, the capital, heading for
the lowest close on record. The currency has plunged 13 percent
this year, the second-worst performer in  Africa .  The slumping currency and concern about its effect on
consumer prices prompted the central bank to raise its key
lending rate twice in three months. The Accra-based regulator
said April 30 that commercial banks will be required to hold
reserves of 9 percent of deposits in the local currency only and
sold treasury bills in an effort to boost the cedi.  “The Ghanaian cedi has depreciated sharply in recent
months as strong dollar demand from corporates continued
unabated,” Ridle Markus, Dumisani Ngwenya and Mike Keenan, Absa
Capital strategists in Johannesburg, wrote in a report today.
“We believe that more measures may be needed to stem the
depreciation of the cedi, which may include a further tightening
of monetary policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  