-- Nigeria Pursuing Talks With Boko Haram Group, Obasanjo Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-05-11T12:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/nigeria-pursuing-talks-with-boko-haram-group-obasanjo-says-2-.html
Former Nigerian leader Olusegun Obasanjo said President Goodluck Jonathan’s government is
seeking dialogue with the militant Islamist group, Boko Haram.  “Within the last 48 hours I heard that the government is
pursuing dialogue with Boko Haram,” Obasanjo said today in an
interview in  Addis Ababa , the Ethiopian capital. “Until now I
think there was an element of ambivalence. We didn’t know if the
government really wanted to talk and negotiate.”  Obasanjo, who served twice as the leader of  Africa ’s
largest oil producer, said he heard of the new approach “from
people close to the president.” He didn’t give details on when
the government decided to pursue talks with the group. Reuben
Abati, a spokesman for Jonathan, didn’t answer three calls to
his mobile phone or respond to a text message seeking comment.  Boko Haram, which seeks to establish an Islamic state in
Nigeria, has claimed responsibility for a series of bomb and gun
attacks in the mostly Muslim north and Abuja, the capital, that
have killed hundreds of people since 2009.  Vice President  Namadi Sambo  said yesterday that the
government is calling “on all aggrieved groups to cease fire
and come forward for dialogue.”  While he didn’t mention Boko Haram by name in a statement
on the presidency’s website, he criticized “negative forces”
responsible for “senseless killings” that portray Islam in a
bad light.  Attacks Hurt Earnings  Abul Qaqa, a spokesman for Boko Haram, said in March the
militants were ruling out talks with the government after
details of initial negotiations between state officials and
Datti Ahmed, an Islamic leader who was acting as a mediator,
were leaked to Nigerian newspapers.  The bombings and attacks by Boko Haram are curbing sales of
 Nigerian Breweries Plc (NB) , the nation’s largest brewer by market
value, in the north, Chief Executive Officer Nicolaas Vervelde
said yesterday in an interview in Lagos.  Nigeria , Africa’s most populous country with more than 160
million people, is almost evenly split between the largely
Muslim north and a predominantly Christian south.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  