-- Nvidia Soars After Forecast Tops Estimates: San Francisco
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-05-11T20:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/nvidia-sales-forecast-tops-estimates-on-new-chips-demand.html
Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  jumped the most in seven
months after predicting second-quarter sales that exceeded
analysts’ estimates, bolstered by demand for its new graphics
chips and mobile-phone processors.  Revenue for the period ending in July will reach $990
million to $1.05 billion, the  Santa Clara , California-based
company said today in a statement. Analysts had estimated $976.3
million, the average of predictions compiled by Bloomberg. The
stock rose 6.4 percent to $13.21 at the close in  New York .  The latest GeForce semiconductors, which are used to make
high-end graphics in desktop and notebook computers, are
creating demand that Nvidia said it is struggling to meet.
Shortages from supplier  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Company Ltd. (TSM)  are still holding back sales, including for the new
Kepler line. Like  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and other chipmakers, Nvidia
subcontracts its production to foundries in Asia.  “Our demand is much greater than our supply and we’re not
going to be able to meet our all of customers’ orders for some
time,” Chief Executive Officer Jen-Hsun Huang said in an
interview. While the company is trying to improve output as fast
as possible, it expects to be short throughout the year, he
said.  Nvidia shares today gained the most since Oct. 4 and had
the second-biggest increase on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
They are down 4.7 percent this year compared with an 8.3 percent
gain by the  Philadelphia Semiconductor Index. (SOX)   First quarter net income fell 55 percent to $60.4 million,
or 10 cents a share, from $135.2 million, or 22 cents, a year
earlier, the company said. Excluding some items, earnings of 16
cents exceeded the 15 cent average of estimates. Sales dropped
3.9 percent to $924.9 million, compared with the $916.2 million
average projection.  Gross margin  Second-quarter gross margin, or the percentage of sales
remaining after deducting the cost of production, will be 51.2
percent, plus or minus one percentage points, according to the
statement. Analysts had estimated 50.3 percent.  The company is trying to branch out into microprocessors
for phones, lessening its reliance on PCs. Nvidia’s Tegra
processor is designed to challenge products from  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN)  and Qualcomm. Nvidia said in January that
orders for those chips had been slow because customers are
waiting for an updated Tegra, due later in the first quarter.  New orders and demand ahead of the availability of
Microsoft Corp.’s Windows 8 is helping turn around that
division. Windows 8, expected to debut later this year, will
work on phone chips based on  ARM Holding Plc (ARM)  technology used by
Nvidia.  Tegra 3 is the first phone chip on the market to combine
four processors into one piece of silicon and is suited for more
powerful phones built for markets outside the U.S., CEO Huang
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  