-- Obama Shifts Back to Economy After Fundraising Swing
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-05-11T19:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/obama-shifts-back-to-economy-after-fundraising-swing.html
President  Barack Obama  shifted his
focus back to the economy after three West Coast campaign
fundraisers, stopping in the swing state of  Nevada  to promote
his housing initiatives.  During a 90-minute stopover on his way back to  Washington ,
Obama met with a family in Reno to illustrate the need for more
action by Congress to assist homeowners. He also reiterated his
five-point “to-do list” for lawmakers and criticized
Republicans for wanting to return to policies that “just didn’t
work.”  “It’s going to take a long time for the economy to fully
recover,” Obama said. “There are plenty of steps we can take
to speed up the recovery right now.”  Nevada had the nation’s highest rate of foreclosure filings
per household at one in 95 in the first quarter, followed by
California at one in 103 and  Arizona  at one in 106. It also has
the highest  unemployment rate  in the U.S., 12 percent in March,
compared with the national rate in April of 8.1 percent. That’s
down from a high of 14 percent in October 2010.  While Obama carried the state in 2008 with 55 percent of
the vote, the state’s slow recovery may give Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  an opening for the November
election, which will turn on voters’ economic concerns.  Refinance Program  To revive the housing market, the administration is trying
to expand the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac refinancing program for
homeowners who owe more than their properties are worth to cover
more borrowers.  The  Home Affordable Refinance Program , known as HARP,
reduces some fees and waives risk for lenders who refinance
loans that they service for borrowers with less than 20 percent
equity in their homes.  Before making remarks, Obama visited the Reno home of Val
and Paul Keller. The Kellers paid $127,000 in 1998 for their
home in a working class neighborhood of Reno, Val Keller, 66,
said in a telephone interview before Obama arrived.  The crash of the housing market forced her husband and son
to close their home remodeling business in 2007, and the Kellers
refinanced their own house to pay business debts, she said.  Savings  When she heard Obama speak about the HARP program last
fall, she and her husband owed $168,000 on a home that was
valued at $100,000. She said being able to take advantage of the
program is saving them $3,000 a year, money that can put toward
the principle.  “I’m hoping that we can stay here long enough that it will
at least come back some,” said Keller, who works as an
assistant at a company that makes loans to ranchers and farmers.  While Keller said she appreciates Obama’s advocacy on home
loans, she declined to say who she plans to vote for in the
November presidential election, calling the matter “just too
personal.”  Obama said that while the Kellers were able to refinance
under HARP, the program must be expanded to let more homeowners
take advantage of record low interest rates.  “This is a smart thing to do not only for homeowners but
for our economy,” he said.  Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan told
lawmakers this week that homeowners with more equity should be
allowed to participate and risk should be waived for lenders who
refinance loans now handled by other servicers.  Senate Proposal  Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, and
California Democrat Barbara Boxer plan to introduce a bill to
expand HARP to as many as 17.5 million more borrowers. The
measure would streamline refinancing for borrowers with more
than 20 percent equity and would encourage competition among
lenders by waiving warranties when they refinance loans.  Obama yesterday raised campaign money in  Seattle  and  Los
Angeles . The biggest event was a dinner at the home of actor
 George Clooney .  The evening brought in almost $15 million, according to co-
host  Jeffrey Katzenberg , chief executive officer of Glendale,
California-based  Dreamworks Animation Skg Inc. (DWA)  That figure
includes money from the 150 donors who paid the full ticket
price of $40,000 for the event and smaller donations the
campaign raised by raffling off a chance to attend the dinner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Reno at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  