-- Obama Winning Investors by 49%-38% Against Romney in Poll
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-05-11T00:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/obama-winning-investors-by-49-38-against-romney-in-poll.html
Global investors increasingly prefer
President  Barack Obama  to Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  and
most say they believe the incumbent will remain in the White
House for another four years.  Asked who would be the better leader for the global
economy, 49 percent favor Obama against 38 percent for Romney,
according to a quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll. In January, the
two candidates tied on the question.  By the same margin, they say Obama has a better vision for
the  U.S. economy , according to the survey of 1,253 Bloomberg
customers, who are investors, analysts or traders.  Obama “managed the U.S. economy pretty well, solving a lot
of imbalances created by the previous administration,” says
poll respondent Mario Di Marcantonio, 35, a senior portfolio
manager at Eurizon Capital in Milan.  “I believe the second Obama term will be better than
having a U-turn with Romney,” he says. “More stability will
mean more visibility and more investment in the future.”  The American presidential election is dividing foreign
investors and those based in the U.S., where Romney is favored
across the board. U.S. investors choose the Republican candidate
as best for the global economy by more than 2-to-1. Respondents
outside the U.S. prefer Democrat Obama by almost 3-to-1 in the
poll, conducted May 8.  Anti-Regulation  Even with global sentiment against Romney, Republican
criticism of new financial-industry regulations that Obama has
backed resonates, with 54 percent of poll respondents saying the
rules have caused job losses.  Still, Obama’s popularity with global investors is the
highest in two and a half years, at a time when political
incumbents across the Atlantic, including French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , are being turned out of office.  The U.S. president is viewed favorably by 56 percent of
global investors and unfavorably by 40 percent.  Investors have turned more negative on Romney during the
Republican primary campaign, giving him the highest unfavorable
reading in the year that respondents have been asked their
opinion of the former Massachusetts governor.  The onetime private-equity executive is viewed favorably by
40 percent and unfavorably by 46 percent. In May 2011, he was
seen favorably by 25 percent and unfavorably by 28 percent.  Debt-Ceiling Fallout  Doyle Gustus, president and chief investment officer of
Cornerstone Select Advisors LLC in  St. Louis , cited Romney’s
support for congressional Republicans’ “destructive”
resistance to raising the U.S.  debt ceiling  last year.  “It was not necessary to have that debate at a time when
the economy was struggling and it raises a serious question
about the party’s ability to lead on economic matters,” Gustus
said. “Since Romney has followed the party’s positions
completely, for me, his leadership is in serious question.”  Even among U.S. investors, Obama’s standing has risen
during the past four months. Thirty-one percent have a favorable
opinion of the president against 27 percent in January. Seventy
percent of non-U.S. respondents have a favorable view of the
president, up from 65 percent in January.  Poll respondents hardly fit the demographic profile of
typical Obama supporters. Almost 80 percent describe themselves
as politically right of center or centrists. Ninety-five percent
are men. Two out of five of those who disclosed their net worth
are millionaires.  Betting on Re-Election  Investors in every region are betting on an Obama re-
election. Seventy-four percent say he will either certainly or
probably win another term, about the same as in January.  Investors in Obama’s America have been rewarded. The U.S.
stock market’s benchmark  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index climbed
about 8 percent this year and is up 60 percent since Obama took
office.  Respondents are now more willing to credit Obama for
improvements in the U.S. economy. Forty-seven percent say he
deserves credit, the same portion as says he doesn’t. In
January, 43 percent attributed improvement to him against 49
percent who didn’t.  They also see another Obama term as favorable to U.S.
markets, with 48 percent saying the president’s re-election
would be a “good thing” for domestic markets compared with 36
percent who predict it would be detrimental. In January, only 44
percent saw another Obama term as favorable for U.S. markets and
last December 38 percent thought so.  Not Caving In  “President Obama hasn’t caved in to the arguments in favor
of austerity and deserves some credit for this,” says Brandon Fitzpatrick, 34, a poll respondent and equity portfolio manager
at DB Fitzpatrick in Boise,  Idaho . “Given the still-weak
economy, we need continued stimulus, both fiscal and monetary.”  Asked which candidate has laid out a better vision for the
U.S. economic future, 45 percent chose Obama and 34 percent
Romney. Another 21 percent had no idea.  As with other measures of Obama, U.S. investors diverge
with their counterparts in other countries. U.S.-based investors
favor Romney’s economic vision 61 percent to 26 percent;
investors based in other countries favor Obama’s vision 55
percent to 19 percent.  “The Democrats have fallen into the belief that if one has
made a lot of money, it must be by taking other people’s share
of a fixed supply of wealth,” says Bruce Lawrence, 62, a macro
strategist at Infinium Capital Management in  Chicago . “I
believe and hope Romney believes the supply of wealth in the
world is not fixed and can be grown.”  Millionaires Negative  Within the U.S., millionaires have a more negative view of
Obama than investors with a lower personal net worth. Seventy-
four percent of U.S. millionaires have an unfavorable view of
Obama versus 60 percent of less wealthy U.S. investors.  Romney is viewed favorably by 68 percent of U.S.
millionaires versus 55 percent of less wealthy U.S. investors  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , who has been exhorting
European leaders to take stronger action on the region’s debt
crisis, has gained popularity among poll respondents. Fifty-one
percent view him positively against 38 percent negatively; a
year ago, they divided almost evenly.  Members of Congress from both political parties are held in
low esteem. Just 31 percent of global respondents give the
Democrats a favorable rating, compared with 55 percent who view
them negatively. Republicans do even worse: 26 percent view them
favorably, compared with 60 percent who have a negative view.  U.S. and European respondents believe the financial system
remains vulnerable in a crisis. Asked if systemic risk in the
 banking system  has been sufficiently addressed by requlators in
their own country, 53 percent of U.S. respondents said it
hasn’t, as did the same portion of Europeans. Only 41 percent of
Asia respondents said their regulators haven’t addressed
systemic risk.  The Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted by Selzer & Co., a
 Des Moines , Iowa-based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or
minus 2.8 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  