-- Obama Lets Gay Marriage Stance Speak for Itself on Road
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-05-11T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/obama-lets-gay-marriage-stance-speak-for-itself-on-road.html
A day after announcing his support
for same-sex marriage, U.S. President  Barack Obama  shifted his
campaign’s focus back to the economy in three West Coast
fundraisers that included a dinner with actor  George Clooney .  The issue of gay rights, a political wild card before the
November election, arose in measured references rather than as a
central message during Obama’s remarks at fundraisers yesterday
in Seattle and Los Angeles. The president said the same-sex
marriage debate should be seen in the context of a spirit of
inclusion versus what he called Republican willingness to
exclude sectors of society.  “Are we a country that includes everybody and gives
everybody a shot and treats everybody fairly?” Obama told 150
donors who paid $40,000 apiece to dine with him at Clooney’s  Los
Angeles  home last night. “Are we welcoming to immigrants? Are
we welcoming to people who aren’t like us? Does that make us
stronger? I believe it does.”  Obama is to continue pressing pocketbook issues today in
Nevada, a battleground state hit hard by the housing crisis, to
press Congress to adopt refinancing proposals aimed at making
low-interest loans more accessible to struggling homeowners.  Nevada had the nation’s highest rate of foreclosure filings
per household at one in 95 in the first quarter, followed by
California at one in 103 and  Arizona  at one in 106. It also has
the highest  unemployment rate  in the U.S., 12 percent in March,
compared with the national rate in April of 8.1 percent. That’s
down from a high of 14 percent in October 2010.  ‘Logical Extension’  During last night’s dinner on a basketball court at
Clooney’s house, the president called his endorsement of gay
marriage “a logical extension of what America’s supposed to
be.” That stance, announced in a May 9 interview on ABC News,
ended years of vacillation and reversed Obama’s earlier
opposition.  “Obviously yesterday we made some news,” he said. “It
grew directly out of this difference in visions” between
Democrats and Republicans.  The comments were the most Obama said on the subject of gay
marriage all day, after making no mention of it in public
remarks at one of two fundraisers in Seattle and hinting at the
issue without speaking directly of it at the second Seattle
event.  At the same time, his re-election campaign is promoting the
president’s support of same-sex marriage in e-mails to donors,
and Obama is scheduled to attend fundraisers with gay rights
activists on May 14 in  New York  featuring pop singer Ricky Martin, and on June 6 in Los Angeles.  Hollywood Celebrities  Jeffrey Katzenberg , chief executive officer of Glendale,
California-based  Dreamworks Animation Skg Inc. (DWA)  who was behind
the Clooney dinner, said it raised almost $15 million. That
figure takes into account those who paid the full ticket price
for the event and those who donated smaller amounts to the
campaign as part of a raffle for a chance to attend the dinner.  The guest list included Hollywood celebrities such as
Robert Downey Jr.,  Jack Black  and  Barbra Streisand , as well as
the two raffle winners: a science teacher from Manalapan, New
Jersey, and a utility company communications coordinator from
 St. Augustine , Florida, and their husbands.  Obama has received $2.1 million from people working in the
entertainment industry, almost three-fourths of all the campaign
contributions from that segment, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group. Romney
has taken in $363,570. The industry is Obama’s ninth-biggest
source of campaign cash, according to the center.  Economic Efforts  Obama made no mention of his marriage stance during the
public portion of remarks earlier yesterday at the Seattle-area
home of real estate developer Bruce Blume, the founder and
chairman of the Blume Co. There, the president talked about his
efforts to grow the economy, promote companies such as  Boeing
Co. (BA) , and expand health coverage.  Reporters were not permitted to stay for Obama’s private
question-and-answer session with the 70 donors.  At a second, larger Seattle fundraiser that featured
musician Dave Matthews and drew younger donors, Obama spoke of
gay rights without directly addressing same-sex marriage. He
said his vision includes a country where everyone “regardless
of sexual orientation is treated fairly” and where people can
be successful “no matter who you love.”  Obama said he was taking steps to reduce foreign oil
dependence, raise fuel efficiency standards and expand high-tech
manufacturing in Seattle and cities such as Cleveland and
Pittsburgh that are located in battleground states. He said for
anyone comparing this year’s campaign to 2008, “You tell them
it’s still about hope. It’s still about change.”  Nevada Appearance  Obama cited the end of the  Iraq war  and plans to end the
war in Afghanistan in 2014, along with his proposals to raise
taxes on wealthy Americans, in contrast to positions held by
presumptive Republican nominee  Mitt Romney ’s positions.  Nevada , which Obama carried in 2008 with 55 percent of the
vote, has supported the winner in the past eight presidential
elections. The Senate election in Nevada is one of 10 in the
country rated a “toss-up” by the nonpartisan Cook Political
Report.  During today’s visit, the president will discuss a package
of proposals announced in February that are designed to jolt the
housing market by making it easier for homeowners to refinance
their mortgages.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  called the
refinancing proposals “an important step” for homeowners in
Nevada and across the country and that it would be “inexcusable
for Congress not to take action.”  Housing Market  The U.S. housing market is showing signs of having hit a
bottom after prices fell 35 percent since peaking in 2006.
Prices for single-family houses climbed in the first quarter
from a year earlier in 74 of 146 metropolitan areas measured,
the National Association of Realtors said in a report yesterday.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan fell to a record
low 3.83 percent in the week ended May 10, according to  Freddie
Mac .  The administration wants to expand the Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac refinancing program for homeowners who owe more than
their properties are worth to cover more borrowers.  The  Home Affordable Refinance Program , known as HARP,
reduces some fees and waives risk for lenders who refinance
loans that they service for borrowers with less than 20 percent
equity in their homes.  Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan told
lawmakers this week that homeowners with more equity should be
allowed to participate and risk should be waived for lenders who
refinance loans now handled by other servicers.  Senator  Robert Menendez , a  New Jersey  Democrat, said he and
California Democrat  Barbara Boxer  would soon introduce a bill to
expand HARP to as many as 17.5 million more borrowers.  The bill
would streamline refinancing for borrowers with more than 20
percent equity and would encourage competition among lenders by
waiving warranties when they refinance loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  