-- OCC Removes Allonhill From Independent Foreclosure Reviews
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-11T22:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/occ-removes-allonhill-as-independent-reviewer-of-foreclosures.html
Allonhill LLC, a consultant hired for
a regulator-required review of whether borrowers were cheated by
U.S. mortgage servicers, was fired from the job today by the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, saying the firm had a
conflict of interest.  Denver-based Allonhill was working for Aurora Bank FSB,
based in Wilmington,  Delaware , and as a subcontractor working
with Promontory Financial Group LLC for  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , after
a settlement required the mortgage servicers to have their
foreclosures reviewed, the OCC said in a statement today.
Allonhill self-reported that it had made prior reviews “of
loans that are part of the same pool of loans” in the current
review, the OCC said.  The regulator of U.S. national banks and other federal
agencies settled with 14 of the largest mortgage servicers a
year ago, requiring the servicers clean up their foreclosure
practices and hire independent consultants to see whether their
foreclosure methods in 2009 and 2010 unfairly hurt specific
customers and how those people should be repaid.  A statement from Allonhill called the action “wholly
without merit,” and Chief Executive Officer Sue Allon said that
the company is “profoundly disappointed by the OCC’s
decision.” Promontory “is fully compliant” with OCC
requirements, Debra Cope, a spokeswoman for the firm, said in a
statement. The OCC decision will have “no significant impact”
on the firm’s work, she said.  In its 2011 engagement letter with Aurora, Allonhill wrote:
“None of the prior work or the potential future work will
affect the independence of Allonhill in performing the
Foreclosure Review.”  Other mortgage servicers that agreed to offer the
independent reviews include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  Borrowers who experienced foreclosures in that two-year
span must apply by July 31 to have their foreclosures reviewed
for potential errors and misrepresentations, and can do so
through  www.independentforeclosurereview.com .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 