-- Occupy London Camp Given Eviction Notice by Local Council
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 2012-05-11T15:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/occupy-london-camp-given-eviction-notice-by-local-council.html
Global equality campaigners occupying
a square on the fringes of the  City of London  financial district
must leave their camp by May 18 or face legal proceedings.  The protest encampment, which sprouted from a larger site
at  St. Paul’s Cathedral , has been served an eviction notice by
Islington Borough council and they have a week to remove their
tents and makeshift structures from the site.  “We can confirm that we have today served a legal notice
requiring the protesters to leave by Friday 18th of May. If this
doesn’t happen, then court action will begin,” said Caroline
Horrocks, a spokeswoman for the council, in a telephone
interview. Similar warnings were posted at the site.  The Occupy Movement began in September, when protesters
took up residence in  New York ’s Zuccotti Park to highlight the
plight of Americans who suffered even as the largest U.S. banks
recovered from the 2008 financial crisis.  The London council estimated the damage to trees, pathways
and flower beds at the square at 20,000 pounds ($32,100),
according to the eviction notice. There were 19 telephone calls
to  emergency services  regarding the square in February and
March, mostly about disturbances and noise, the notice said.  “In all likeliness we will be leaving peacefully,” said
Roy Adams, a spokesman for the camp, by telephone today. “We
will continue the battle elsewhere.”  Occupy London protesters have cost the City of London and
its police authority more than 1.1 million pounds in legal and
monitoring costs, according to information obtained by Bloomberg
in a Freedom of Information request. Bloomberg LP’s European
headquarters are located on Finsbury Square.  “The Council has said from the outset that we support the
right to peaceful protest, and we have tolerated Occupy’s
presence at Finsbury Square since October,” councilor Paul
Convery said in a statement. “However, it is now apparent that
the character of the protest has changed and Occupy’s presence
is significantly diminished. In the protester’s place, we now
see a group of vulnerable and homeless people who would be
better cared for elsewhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Farrand in Edinburgh  at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  