-- Oil-Tanker Returns Fall for Third Day as Supply Exceeds Demand
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-05-11T16:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/oil-tanker-returns-fall-for-third-day-as-supply-exceeds-demand.html
Returns for the largest  oil tankers 
hauling 2 million-barrel cargoes of  Persian Gulf  crude to  Asia 
fell for a third session as a glut of available ships
overwhelmed demand for cargoes.  Income for very large crude carriers on the benchmark Saudi
Arabia-to-Japan route slid 3.6 percent to $23,853 a day,
according to the Baltic Exchange in  London . That extended the
current streak of declines to 11 percent.  There are between three and six cargoes to be loaded during
May with 34 VLCCs available in the Persian Gulf, according to
Kevin Sy, a Singapore-based freight-derivatives broker at Marex
Spectron Group. The VLCC fleet will expand 6.2 percent in 2012,
exceeding 4.9 percent demand growth, said Clarkson Research
Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  “Rates are not going to turn around and spike up,” Sy
said in an e-mailed report today.  The exchange’s assessments don’t reflect speed cuts aimed
at reducing fuel costs, vessel owners’ largest expense. Owners
can boost returns by slowing ships on return journeys after
unloading of cargoes.  The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, added 0.8 percent to
$684.79 a metric ton, ending a five-day losing streak, data
compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide show.  Charter costs for very large crude carriers on the
benchmark voyage slid 1.4 percent to 56.47 industry-standard
Worldscale points, an eighth successive decline, staying at the
lowest level since April 24, figures from the London-based
 Baltic Exchange  showed today.  The points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or flat
rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, lost
0.8 percent to 760, according to the bourse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  