-- Oil Drops to 2012 Low on Chinese Output, Europe Debt
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-05-11T20:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/oil-heads-for-weekly-drop-on-chinese-output-europe-debt.html
Oil dropped to a 2012 low after
China’s industrial growth unexpectedly slowed in April and
concern grew that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen, reducing
fuel consumption.  Futures fell 1 percent after industrial  output  increased in
China by the least since 2009. Prices also slumped as Spain said
it will force lenders to raise provisions against real estate
holdings and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reported a $2 billion trading
loss. Crude declined a second week after U.S. supplies rose to a
21-year high.  “There are a combination of factors pushing oil lower,”
said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group in Villanova,
Pennsylvania. “There’s a heck of a lot of oil out there, so
supply isn’t a problem, and recent economic data along with the
problems in Europe point to lower demand.”  Crude for June delivery fell 95 cents to $96.13 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
Dec. 19. Prices slipped 2.4 percent this week and are down 2.7
percent this year.  Oil in New York may extend losses after settling below the
200-day moving average for the first time since Dec. 19. The
technical indicator stood at $96.27. Buy and sell orders tend to
be clustered near chart-support levels.  Brent oil for June settlement slipped 47 cents, or 0.4
percent, to end the session at $112.26 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The European benchmark
contract’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate widened to $16.13
from $15.65.  Industrial Production  Chinese factory output rose 9.3 percent in April from a
year earlier, the country’s National Bureau of Statistics
reported. Indian industrial  production  declined 3.5 percent from
a year earlier, the  Central Statistical Office  said in a
statement today. A 1.7 percent gain was forecast, according to
the median of 32 economist responses in Bloomberg survey.  “The Chinese industrial numbers were worse than expected
and Indian industrial data were really disappointing,” Schork
said. “There’s not a lot of good news out there.”  Greece  has been unable to form a government since the May 6
elections, raising the possibility that another vote will take
place as early as next month.  Spain ’s government took control of
the nation’s fourth-biggest lender this week as it starts its
fourth bank cleanup in three years.  JPMorgan Chase Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said
yesterday that the firm suffered the trading loss after an
“egregious” failure in a unit managing risks. The shares fell
9.3 percent today.  ‘Weighed Down’  “I see no reason to be long anything today,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford , Connecticut. “The Chinese headlines got us moving
lower today. The market was already weighed down by concerns
about Europe and by the loss at JPMorgan Chase.”  Prices also fell as supply exceeded expected demand. U.S.
 crude stockpiles  rose 3.65 million barrels last week to 379.5
million, the highest level since 1990, according to Energy
Department data. The gain was the seventh in a row.  “The recent correction is to do with the broader risk-off
mode,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-markets
strategy at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “We had been building up
to a correction as a result of higher OPEC supply and a whole
string of crude inventory gains in the U.S.”  The  International Energy Agency  made a “modest” 80,000-
barrel-a-day increase to its estimate for oil consumption to
88.7 million in 2012 in its monthly oil-market report today. The
Paris-based agency said global markets are “marginally
tighter” and predicted that geopolitical risks to crude supply
will keep prices high.  ‘Upside Risk’  “The IEA report highlighted upside risk,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-
based energy consultant. “The tensions with Iran aren’t
resolved and the global economy is still chugging along.”  Last month, representatives from the U.S., Russia,  China ,
the U.K., France and Germany held their first international
meeting with Iran on its nuclear program in 15 months. They
agreed to resume the negotiations in  Baghdad  on May 23. The U.S.
and its allies are concerned that  Iran’s nuclear program  is a
cover for developing weapons, which the Islamic republic denies.  Crude may decline next week, according to Bloomberg survey.
Eleven of 23 analysts, or 48 percent, forecast oil will drop
through May 18. Nine respondents, or 39 percent, predicted
prices will be steady and three said there will be a gain.  Electronic trading volume of crude oil on the Nymex was
448,421 contracts as of 3:27 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled
568,617 contracts yesterday, 6.3 percent below the three-month
average. Open interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  