-- Money Funds Cut Barclays Debt While Adding Deutsche Bank
-- B y   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h   a n d   A l b e r t o   F u e r t e s
-- 2012-05-11T14:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/money-funds-cut-barclays-debt-while-adding-deutsche-bank.html
The 10 biggest prime U.S. money-
market mutual funds decreased holdings of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  by $6.65
billion in April, the largest drop in dollars for any bank,
ahead of a potential downgrade for the London-based company.  Holdings of securities issued by Frankfurt-based  Deutsche
Bank AG (DB)  rose by $5.12 billion over the month, the most among
European banks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Holdings of German banks increased by $5.88 billion, while those
of U.K. banks declined by $6 billion.  Moody’s Investors Service (MCO)  said on April 13 that banks
including Barclays and  Bank of America Corp.  had their short-
term rating under review as part of a wider assessment of the
industry. Separately, the U.K. Independent Commission on Banking
is recommending that banks segregate consumer operations from
 investment banking  and subordinate unsecured creditors to
individual depositors.  “The short-term rating downgrades could have a greater
near-term impact via impact on certain types of funding,” said
 Kinner Lakhani , analyst at Citigroup Inc., in an April 30
report. “This is especially true for money-market funds which
cannot typically purchase commercial paper from entities rated
P-2 or lower.”  P-2 is the second-highest rating for short-term debt
issuers.  Bank Commission  The bank commission’s move to segregate assets, if
confirmed in a white paper published next month, could make it
harder for U.K. banks to rectify the effects of a downgrade when
the rules come into force in 2015, Amit Goel, an analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a May 9 report.  U.S. money funds reduced holdings in Barclays to $23.9
billion as of April 30 from $30.6 billion a month earlier.  The bank increased its pool of liquid assets, including
central  bank deposits , to 173 billion pounds ($279 billion) at
the end of the first quarter, from 152 billion pounds at the end
of last year, according to a filing.  Barclays Bank , which issues the short-term paper held by
the money-market funds, retains the highest short-term rating
and isn’t under review by Moody’s. Even after the April decline,
Barclays is the most reliant on money-market funding of any bank
globally, according to the Bloomberg survey of 38 large banks.  Money-fund holdings of short-term Deutsche Bank paper rose
to $17 billion from $11.9 billion, a 43 percent increase. The
increase in Deutsche Bank securities reduces their need to fund
dollar operations through the more expensive  derivatives market .  Basis Swaps  Deutsche Bank holdings had fallen by $4.4 billion during
March. Less funding from money markets implies an increase in
the use of basis swaps, a way for banks to exchange their euro-
denominated capital into dollars to fund loans.  The bank booked a 319 million-euro ($413 million) charge in
the first quarter because of “technical” accounting effects,
according to the April 26 filing.  “Approximately half of this arises as a consequence of the
bank using euro borrowings to fund  U.S. dollar  assets by
swapping the euro borrowings into U.S. dollar in the basis swap
markets,” Stefan Krause, the bank’s chief financial officer,
said that day on an earnings call.  Giles Croot, a spokesman at Barclays, and Armin Niedermeier, a spokesman at Deutsche Bank, declined to comment.  The funds’ holdings in all European banks declined by $4.2
billion in April to $187.5 billion, according to the survey.  Prime Funds  Prime money funds are eligible to purchase debt and other
securities issued by corporations and banks, as opposed to funds
that invest exclusively in U.S. government-backed debt.  Outside of  Europe , Bank of America holdings declined the
most, by $4.42 billion.  Japanese banks attracted $2.77 billion, the largest amount
of new investment after  Germany .  The survey included Fidelity Cash Reserves, JPMorgan Prime
Money Market Fund, Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund, Fidelity
Institutional Prime Money Market Portfolio, Fidelity
Institutional Money Market Portfolio, BlackRock TempFund,
Federated Prime Obligations Fund, Schwab Cash Reserves, Western
Asset Institutional Liquid Reserves and Dreyfus Cash Management
Fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radi Khasawneh in London at 
 rkhasawneh1@bloomberg.net ;
Alberto Fuertes in London at 
 afuertes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Dunbar at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net  