-- Money Market Indicators Signals Banking Sector Stress Retreats
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-11T12:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/money-market-indicators-signals-banking-sector-stress-retreats.html
Money-market indicators signaled the
ability of banks to borrow and lend short term funds increased
with the gap between the London interbank offered rate and the
Federal funds rate narrowing in the forward market.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  was  0.46685 percent, unchanged from the last two
days, according to the British Bankers’ Association.  The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks reluctance to lend,
was unchanged at 31.6 basis points. The gap was as high as 51
basis points this year on Jan. 6. Overnight index swaps, or OIS,
give traders predictions on where the Fed’s effective funds rate
will average for the term of the swap. The central bank’s target
rate is set in a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, narrowed to 34.9 basis points from 35.6
basis point yesterday.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened to 34 basis points from 33.25 basis points. The
gap is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector
credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for
dollar Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in
many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market increased. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 45 basis points below Euribor, compared to 44.1
basis points below yesterday.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, narrowed.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 37.6
basis points, compared with 38.1 basis points yesterday. The
measure has fallen from 95 basis points at the start of the
year.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
surged $26.4 billion to $966.4 billion outstanding in the week
ended May 9, according to Federal Reserve data. During the two
week period ended May 9, the market has expanded $40.5 billion,
the biggest increase since $40.8 billion for the comparable
period ended May 25, 2011, according to Fed data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 30.8 basis points, from minus
30.8 basis points yesterday. A negative swap price indicates
investors are willing to receive reduced interest payments on
the yen they lend in order to obtain the needed financing in
dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  