-- Hong Kong Economy Grows at Slowest Pace Since Crisis
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-05-11T08:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/hong-kong-economy-set-for-slowest-growth-since-2009.html
Hong Kong ’s economy grew at the
slowest pace since the global financial crisis in the first
quarter as Europe’s sovereign-debt woes undermined export demand
and confidence.  Gross domestic product rose 0.4 percent from a year
earlier, the government said today. That was less than the 1.1
percent  median forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey of 16
economists and the 3 percent expansion in the three months ended
December 2011. The latest number was partly dragged down by a
high comparative base.  Slower growth adds to challenges for incoming Chief 
Executive Leung Chun-ying, who takes office July 1 after 
pledging to aid low-income earners, increase housing supply 
and address “deep-rooted conflicts” in society. The government
forecasts an expansion of between 1 percent and 3 percent for
the full year, the least since 2009, as  Europe ’s debt crisis
threatens trade and the financial services industry.  “The biggest danger this year continues to be the risk of
financial contagion from Europe, especially if it triggers an
accelerated withdrawal of European bank capital from Asia, or
spills over to derail the U.S. recovery,” Donna Kwok, a Hong
Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said before today’s
announcement.  Hong Kong’s economy grew 0.4 percent quarter-on-quarter.
Full-year growth was 5 percent in 2011. The government today
maintained a forecast for inflation of 3.5 percent this year,
while the growth estimate was also unchanged.  Weaker-than-forecast trade numbers for  China  yesterday
added to concern over the outlook for exports. Hong Kong
reported a 6.8 percent decline in overseas shipments in March
from a year earlier. Data for April is yet to be released.  Workers Protest  Public discontent is rising after surging property prices
made Hong Kong the world’s most expensive place to own a home,
while median monthly  household income  has remained unchanged at
HK$20,000 ($2,578) since 1997. Thousands of workers took to the
streets on the Labor Day holiday on May 1, demanding that Leung
address a widening wealth gap.  About 5,000 people gathered at Victoria Park in Causeway
Bay and made their way to government headquarters, said Poon
Man-hon, policy researcher at the Hong Kong Confederation of
Trade Unions. The group is calling on Leung to raise minimum
wages and standardize working hours to a maximum of 44 a week.
The police estimated 2,400 people attended the protest,  Radio
Television Hong Kong  reported.  “Weakness in trade and the financial industry have been
weighing on Hong Kong’s growth and are risks for the rest of the
year,” said Tomo Kinoshita, an economist at Nomura Holdings
Inc. who works in the city. “At the same time, Chinese tourists
are still visiting in big numbers and the government’s
aggressive investment in infrastructure will help the economy to
maintain momentum.”  Flood of Tourists  Visitor arrivals from China rose 21 percent in the first
three months of this year to almost 7.9 million, according to
the Hong Kong Tourism Board.  Home prices  have gained more than 75 percent since early
2009 on record-low  mortgage rates  and an under-supply of new
units, prompting the government to raise minimum mortgage down-
payments and charge extra property transaction taxes to avoid
the formation of an asset bubble.  The  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) , which tracks the city’s seven
biggest builders including  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  and
 Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , has gained more than 40 percent since
the start of 2009.  Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said May 3 that officials
are guarding against the risk of “a potentially dangerous
housing bubble” developing because of low  interest rates  and
abundant liquidity. Any “positive surprises regarding the
global economy or central bank actions could re-ignite a
liquidity-driven boom in our  property market ,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Munoz in Hong Kong at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  