-- OPEC Boosts Oil Production for Seventh Month on Iraq, IEA Says
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-05-11T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/opec-boosts-oil-production-for-seventh-month-on-iraq-iea-says.html
OPEC boosted crude production for a
seventh month in April as  Iraq , Nigeria and  Libya  raised output,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  The 12 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries pumped 31.85 million barrels a day of crude last
month, up from 31.44 million in March, the Paris-based IEA said
in its monthly Oil Market Report. That exceeds the group’s 30
million output ceiling set in December, including Iraq, and is
almost 3 million barrels a day more than April 2011 levels, the
agency said. OPEC’s own estimate of its production last month
was at 31.62 million, based on secondary sources, according to a
monthly report yesterday.  “Higher OPEC production has, in part, offset constrained
non-OPEC supplies stemming largely from unplanned outages,” the
IEA said. “OPEC’s Gulf producers also appear to have ramped up
output to meet increased customer demand in response to the
potential disruption in Iranian crude flows in coming months as
the European Union’s July 1 oil embargo nears.”  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest  crude exporter ,
maintained production near a three-decade peak at 10 million
barrels a day last month, unchanged since February. The
kingdom’s crude supplies are “on track” to rise to more than
10.1 million barrels a day this month, the IEA said, citing
tanker loading data.  “Volumes may rise further in June given the steep price
discounts announced for mainstream Arab Light crude sold into
 Asia ,” the agency said. “Some of these liftings may be from
storage.”  Iraq, Nigeria Increase  Iraqi production climbed by 195,000 barrels a day to 3.03
million barrels in April, the most in decades, the IEA said.
Exports were boosted by a new single point mooring facility.  Oil output from  Nigeria  rose to 2.15 million barrels a day,
up 100,000 barrels a day, because of rising production from the
offshore Usan field, the agency said. Libyan supply increased to
1.4 million barrels a day, near its 1.6 million average in 2010,
before the nation’s armed uprising.  Iran  pumped 3.3 million barrels a day in April, unchanged
from the previous month.  OPEC’s “effective” spare capacity declined to an
estimated 2.38 million barrels a day in April from 2.54 million
the previous month, the IEA said. That excludes Iraq, Nigeria,
Libya and Iran.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria,  Qatar , Saudi Arabia, United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  