-- OraSure HIV Test Has Risks of False Results, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-05-11T20:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/orasure-hiv-test-has-risks-of-false-results-fda-says.html
People who use what could be the
first completely at-home HIV test under development by  OraSure
Technologies Inc. (OSUR)  risk receiving false results, U.S. regulators
said in a report.  Outside advisers to the  Food and Drug Administration  should
weigh whether the benefits of the kit are greater than the
potential risk of false negative and false positive results,
agency staff said in the  report  today ahead of a May 15 advisory
panel meeting. Regulators are considering approval of the
OraQuick In-Home HIV Test, which would be sold without a
prescription and provide users with their HIV status at home in
a similar fashion to pregnancy tests.  “There is considerable personal and public health value in
informing infected, but otherwise untested, persons of their
true positive HIV status,” FDA staff wrote. “However, this
benefit is offset in some measure by HIV-positive individuals
who receive an incorrect message that they are not infected.”  OraSure fell 12 percent to $9.85 at the close in  New York ,
the largest single-day decline in almost three years.  About 1.2 million people in the U.S. have HIV, the virus
that causes AIDS, and 20 percent of those people are unaware
they are infected, according to the  Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention . The test made by Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based
OraSure would be the first of its kind. Other kits, such as Home
Access Health Corp.’s Express HIV Test System, require users to
anonymously send blood samples to a laboratory for testing.  Clinical Trial Findings  A clinical trial of OraSure’s test identified 100
previously undiagnosed people infected with HIV of 5,800
patients who used the product, according to the company. OraSure
markets the only FDA-approved rapid HIV test that detects HIV
antibodies in oral fluid and provides results in a clinic or
doctor’s office within 20 minutes.  OraQuick would produce one false negative result for every
13 true positive tests, FDA staff said. That would total an
estimated 3,800 people with HIV who falsely test negative each
year, according to the report. In addition, the test would
produce one false positive result for every 3,750 true negative
tests resulting in 1,100 people a year who aren’t infected
believing they are, the report said.  The false negatives reported were higher than what the FDA
considers a “minimum acceptable performance” while the false
positives were lower.  ‘Confident’ in Test  “We are very confident in the efficacy, safety and
performance of the OraQuick In-Home HIV Test, which has been
proven to have a calculated accuracy of 99 percent in extensive
self-test clinical studies,” Ron Ticho, a spokesman, said in an
e-mail.  OraQuick would identify 9,087 previously undiagnosed HIV-
positive individuals for each 1 million who use the test, Ticho
said.  OraSure doesn’t have an estimate for when the FDA may
decide on the home-results test, said Susan Brophy, of Golin
Harris, who is a spokeswoman for the company.  The FDA cleared the  Home Access test  in 1996. Results can
be obtained the day a sample arrives at a laboratory and
retrieved anonymously using a pin number, according to the
 Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based company. The FDA stresses the
benefit of having medical professionals help users interpret the
results and understand treatment options on its  website .  The FDA staff expressed concern that people who may have
gotten tested professionally would turn to the “less sensitive,
but more private,” alternative. No studies have been done to
test the potential impact, according to the report.  “Counseling, which uses both printed material and
telephone interaction, provides the user with an interpretation
of the test result,” the FDA  said  on its website about the Home
Access test system.  Counseling also can provide information on preventing
transmission of the disease for people who are infected and on
treatment options and doctor referrals, the FDA said.  More than 16,000 people with AIDS were estimated to have
died in 2008, the CDC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  