-- U.K. to Stop ‘Jealous’ Europe From Taxing Finance, Cameron Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-05-11T13:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/lloyd-s-of-london-sets-out-emerging-market-growth-plan-for-2025.html
The U.K. will block any attempt from
“jealous” Europeans to constrain or tax its financial-services
industry, Prime Minister  David Cameron  said as he pledged to
support insurers over new European solvency rules.  “The threat is always there,” Cameron said to an audience
of insurers and brokers at  Lloyd’s of London  today. “If I can’t
get the safeguards I need for the single market, for financial
services, for the things that Britain cares about, you’ve got to
be quite prepared to say ‘no.’”  Cameron asked U.K. insurers to alert him to any potential
issues with new drafts of Solvency II rules, which may force
insurance companies to hold more capital against assets such as
equities and corporate bonds.  Prudential Plc (PRU) , the U.K.’s biggest
insurer, threatened in February to quit  London  if the rules
overly penalize its U.S. business.  “Other European countries are frankly quite jealous of the
financial-services industry that we have in London and the
U.K.,” Cameron said. “It’s one of our premier industries. It
has an enormous  trade balance  with the rest of Europe. There are
often attempts to hobble our financial-services industry or
indeed take some of it away, or alternatively tax it in such a
way that would give the rest of Europe lots of money.”  Cameron vetoed a European treaty in December that he said
threatened the continent’s single market and the U.K.’s ability
to govern its financial-services industry. Separately, German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and former French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  last year championed a financial-transactions tax that
the European Commission said would raise 57 billion euros ($74
billion) a year.  Expansion Plans  “The financial transactions tax which keeps being peddled
is something with huge amounts of money coming straight out of
the U.K. and being spent in the rest of  Europe ,” Cameron said.
His veto “demonstrated quite how much of a challenge from
Europe in terms of regulation and we have to be very tough in
fighting it off.”  Cameron spoke as  Lloyd’s of London , the world’s oldest
insurance market, set out a plan to become the top insurance and
reinsurance center by 2025 as it expands regional hubs in
 emerging markets .  Lloyd’s will seek to grow at least in line with the gross
domestic product of its developed markets, which include the
U.S. and Europe, while writing more policies through overseas
offices in some of the world’s fastest-growing countries, it
said today in a statement.  “It is a strategy for growth,” Chairman  John Nelson  said
in the statement. “Lloyd’s is a profitable international
business but we want to make sure we become the true global hub
for specialist insurance and reinsurance.”  Lloyd’s, founded in a London coffee house in 1688, is
competing with the U.S., Bermuda and Switzerland to become the
primary insurer of assets in emerging markets such as Brazil and
 China . Lloyd’s insurers are able to take advantage of the
market’s credit rating and international licenses to sell
insurance overseas.  The market will diversify its capital base to better
reflect the contribution of revenue from higher-growth
countries, Lloyd’s said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  