-- Palm Beach Polo Tycoon Gets 16 Years For Car Crash Death
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-05-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/palm-beach-polo-tycoon-gets-16-years-for-car-crash-death.html
John Goodman, the  Florida  polo
tycoon, was sentenced to 16 years in prison for driving under
the influence-manslaughter and vehicular homicide in the 2010
death of a 23-year-old man whose car he slammed into with his
Bentley.  The sentence was about half of the maximum faced by
Goodman, founder of the International Polo Club Palm Beach in
Wellington, Florida.  Goodman, 48, ran a stop sign in his convertible, striking a
car driven by Scott Patrick Wilson, which careened into a
roadside canal. Goodman walked home and waited an hour before
calling 911, prosecutors said, while the victim drowned. Palm
Beach County Judge Jeffrey Colbath said yesterday that, in
determining the sentence, he considered the fact that Goodman’s
blood alcohol level was twice the legal limit and that he did
nothing to try to save Wilson.  “He had an opportunity to try to save Mr. Wilson,”
Colbath said. “He could have gotten in that canal.” Goodman
spoke briefly during the hearing, saying “I don’t know what to
say. I’m so sad and remorseful.”  A six-person jury convicted Goodman earlier this year in
the Feb. 12, 2010, death of Wilson. Goodman faced as many as 30
years in prison.  $7 Million  Colbath allowed Goodman’s family to post $7 million in cash
and property to bail him out pending the results of his appeal.
Goodman also offered to pay for off-duty police officers to
“babysit” him after Colbath said he was concerned Goodman had
the financial wherewithal to flee the country.  Prosecutors asked that they be notified if Goodman’s
girlfriend, whom he has legally adopted, gains access to a trust
that was set up for his children.  The judge rejected a bid by Goodman’s attorney, Roy Black,
for a new trial based on juror misconduct. The judge questioned
juror Dennis DeMartin after he self-published a book about the
trial in which he wrote that, the night before the jury reached
a verdict, he had four drinks to see how that number of drinks
would have left Goodman impaired.  ‘Take the Drinks’  “I didn’t take the drinks to find out if he was guilty or
not,” DeMartin said. “I took the drinks to see if I could
handle it.”  Black had argued that Goodman should get a new trial
because DeMartin conducted an experiment rather than making his
decision based on the evidence in the case.  “It really doesn’t matter what he wrote in his book and it
really doesn’t matter what he said to the press,” Assistant
State Attorney Sherri Collins said. “He has every right to do
those things.”  Black said Goodman’s insurance company had paid Wilson’s
parents $40 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in  Palm Beach  County court
in Florida at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  