-- Panasonic Profit Forecast Misses Estimates Amid Slump in TVs
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-05-11T06:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/panasonic-forecasts-net-income-lagging-behind-analyst-estimates.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Japan’s biggest
appliance maker that’s eliminating 17,000 jobs after posting a
record loss, forecast a profit this year that missed analyst
estimates as demand for its Viera plasma TVs drops.  Net income  will probably be 50 billion yen ($627 million)
in the 12 months ending March 31, the Osaka-based company said
in a statement today. The projection missed the 106 billion-yen
 average  of 18 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
company had a record 772 billion-yen loss last year.  Panasonic joins Sony Corp. in predicting profits that
missed estimates as global TV demand falls and Japanese
companies lose market share to South Korean competitors Samsung
Electronics Co. and LG Electronics Inc. Panasonic, founded in
1918, is trying to transform itself into a leader in solar
panels and rechargeable batteries.  The company’s earnings targets “could be difficult to
achieve, given restructuring costs and sluggish TV demand,”
Yasuo Nakane, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said
before the announcement. “Targets should be realistic so that
the management handover can be smooth.”  The company’s shares fell 1.6 percent to 570 yen in  Tokyo 
trading before the earnings announcement. The stock has tumbled
13 percent this year, compared with an 18 percent drop for Sony.  TV Sales  TV sales this year will decline to 15.5 million units from
17 million units last year, Panasonic said. The company will
lose money from selling TVs this year, Tetsuya Yoshimoto, a
group manager at the company’s accounting unit, told reporters
in Tokyo today without giving a projection.  “TV and semiconductor businesses were substantially
unprofitable offsetting all profit from other profitable
business,” Panasonic said in the statement about the year ended
in March.  The company forecast a 60 billion-yen operating profit at
the audio-visual unit and a 3 billion-yen profit at the energy
unit in the year that started in April. Full-year forecasts were
based on 78 yen to the dollar and 103 yen to the euro, according
to the statement.  Sony, Japan’s biggest electronics exporter, yesterday
forecast the company may have a 30 billion-yen net income this
fiscal year, lagging behind the 61.4 billion-yen estimate of
analysts. Sony also had a record loss last year.  Management Change  Global TV shipments last year fell for the first time in
six years because of excessive inventory in the U.S. and  Europe ,
and the end of Japanese government subsidies for purchases,
according to DisplaySearch, part of NPD Group. Shipments fell
0.3 percent to 247.7 million units, the researcher said.  Panasonic is promoting Kazuhiro Tsuga, its 55-year-old
chief of audiovisual products, to replace President Fumio Ohtsubo, 66, as the company tries to speed up reforms. Sony and
Sharp Corp. are also replacing top management as they struggle
to revive earnings.  Panasonic has expanded its renewable energy businesses,
including solar panels and power-storage systems, since it
acquired Sanyo Electric Corp. in 2008. It also merged last year
with Panasonic Electric Works, which makes lighting systems and
electrical-wiring fittings.  Ohtsubo said last year Panasonic will eliminate almost
17,000 jobs over two years in his second round of job cuts as
part of an overhaul to revive  Japan ’s second-biggest employer,
which makes products ranging from car TV sets and digital
cameras to rice cookers and refrigerators.  The maker of Lumix cameras joined Sony in nominating a
younger  leader  amid worsening earnings as the electronics makers
struggle to turn around TV operations and cope with the stronger
yen. Kazuo Hirai, 51, took over as the president and chief
executive officer of Tokyo-based Sony last month, replacing
 Howard Stringer .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  