-- Pena Nieto Painted as Deadbeat Dad by Mexico Presidential Rival
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-05-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/pena-nieto-painted-as-deadbeat-dad-by-mexico-presidential-rival.html
Mexico  presidential front-runner
Enrique Pena Nieto was accused by his nearest rival, who trails
in polls by double digits ahead of the July 1 election, of
shirking his responsibilities toward a child he fathered out of
wedlock.  Josefina Vazquez Mota, seeking to retain the presidency for
the ruling  National Action Party , known as PAN, and become
Mexico’s first female president, used Mother’s Day celebrations
to paint Pena Nieto as a father who has failed to support his
son. Pena Nieto, who represents the  Institutional Revolutionary
Party , in January said he had provided for the child.  Referring to proposals that will allow women to demand DNA
tests to prove paternity and ensure financial support, Vazquez
Mota said that Pena Nieto was an example of a father “who
doesn’t want to be responsible” for his children.  The comment came after Vazquez Mota was unable to cut into
Pena Nieto’s lead in the first of two presidential debates on
May 6 and almost four months after the PRI candidate said he
fathered the child. Pena Nieto had 36 percent support in an
opinion poll this week by Grupo Economistas Asociados-ISA, while
Vazquez Mota had 18.8 percent, falling behind  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  of the Party of the Democratic Revolution, who had
19.5 percent backing.  The May 7-9 survey included 1,152 people and had a margin
of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Referring to Rival  Vazquez Mota didn’t refer to Pena Nieto by name yesterday,
instead talking about “the man I had at my side,” in reference
to the televised debate when he stood to her right. Irma
Gonzalez Luna, a spokeswoman for Vazquez Mota, confirmed she was
referring to her campaign rival.  Vazquez Mota’s support has dropped from three months ago,
when she won her party’s Feb. 5 primary. The former education
minister and campaign manager to President  Felipe Calderon  had
29 percent backing in a GEA-ISA poll taken Feb. 17-19 while Pena
Nieto had 36 percent.  Lopez Obrador  gained 17 percent in the
survey of 1,000 people with a 4 percentage point margin of
error.  While Vazquez Mota may be able to turn some socially
conservative Mexicans against Pena Nieto, focusing on her
rival’s personal life may signal concern as her poll numbers
wane before the election, said  Eric Farnsworth , the vice
president of the Council of the Americas in Washington who
worked on Latin America issues at the State Department under
President  Bill Clinton .  ‘Grasp at Straws’  “It’s the point of the campaign where she needs to pull
out all the stops if she has any hope of victory,” Farnsworth
said yesterday in an interview. “Since the allegations have
been around for several months, one would presume that maybe
people have discounted them. This could backfire, and it could
be seen as somebody trying to grasp at straws to undermine the
leading candidate.”  Pena Nieto, 45, said in a Jan. 22 interview with  El
Universal  newspaper that he had fathered two children out of
wedlock during his first marriage. One of the children later
died. In the case of the other, “I’ve made sure that he’s had
all that is necessary for his upbringing,” Pena Nieto said in
the interview.  Maritza Diaz Hernandez, who says Pena Nieto fathered her
child, dismissed pledges from his PRI party to protect and
support all children in Mexico, saying on her Facebook account
in January that he hadn’t looked after his own son.  Pena Nieto’s campaign office said he won’t respond to
yesterday’s allegations. The former governor of Mexico state
married his current wife, soap-opera star Angelica Rivera, after
his first wife died.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  