-- Mexico’s PRI Likely to Win Majority in Congress, Poll Shows
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-05-11T19:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/pena-nieto-remains-mexico-presidential-front-runner-poll-shows.html
Mexico ’s opposition Institutional
Revolutionary Party probably will win a majority in both
congressional houses in July’s election, paving the way for a
bill to increase private investment in the oil industry,
according to an opinion poll.  An alliance of the PRI and the  Green Party  will gain 265 of
500 lower house seats and 67 out of 128 senate seats, in the
worst case scenario, Mexico City-based Consulta Mitofsky said
today. The PRI’s presidential candidate, Enrique Pena Nieto, has
38.5 percent of voter preferences, the poll showed.  Pena Nieto said in a Nov. 16 interview that he’ll stake his
success on increasing private investment in the country’s oil
industry, and eventually look to sell shares in state-owned
 Petroleos Mexicanos  to the public. A public share offering in
Pemex, as the company is known, would require the support of two
thirds of both chambers in the congress.  “There is a very high possibility that the PRI is going to
have a majority” in both houses, said Fluvio Ruiz, a member of
the Pemex board, in an interview yesterday. Controlling both
houses and the presidency “improves the possibility of
reforms,” he said.  Pena Nieto has sustained his lead over rival candidates
after the first of two televised debates on May 6. In Mitofsky’s
poll two weeks ago, he had 38 percent of voter preference.  Josefina Vazquez Mota of the ruling  National Action Party 
won 21 percent support in today’s poll, compared with 22 percent
in the previous survey, while  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  of the
Party of the Democratic Revolution had 19 percent, up from 18
percent.  The poll taken May 7 to May 9 of 1,000 people in their
homes had a margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 