-- Pentagon Says Cyber-Threat Sharing May Reach 1,000 Companies
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-05-11T15:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/pentagon-says-cyber-threat-sharing-may-reach-1-000-companies-1-.html
The Pentagon predicts that as many as
1,000 defense contractors may join a voluntary effort to share
classified information on cyber threats under an expansion of a
first-ever initiative to protect  computer networks .  Following a pilot program that involved 36 contractors and
three of the biggest U.S.  Internet providers , the Obama
administration approved a rule letting the Pentagon enlist all
contractors and Internet providers with security clearances in
the information exchange, according to Eric Rosenbach, deputy
assistant secretary of defense for cyber policy.  “This is an important milestone in voluntary information-
sharing between government and industry,” Rosenbach said in an
interview yesterday at the Pentagon. Richard Hale, the
Pentagon’s deputy chief information officer for cybersecurity,
said that 1,000 companies may participate.  If the Pentagon’s effort proves successful in safeguarding
defense contractors from cyber attacks, the administration may
enlarge the program to companies in 15 other critical
infrastructure categories through the Department of  Homeland
Security , Rosenbach said.  Cyber threats facing the U.S. defense industry and its
“unclassified  information systems  represent an unacceptable
risk of compromise of DoD information and pose an imminent
threat to U.S. national security and economic security
interests,” according to the federal rule authorizing the
expanded Department of Defense program.  Hackers in China  Information needs to be shared because hackers, especially
in  China , are accelerating efforts to penetrate computer
networks such as those of defense contractors, Rear Admiral
Samuel Cox, director of intelligence for U.S. Cyber Command,
told reporters at a conference last month.  “Chinese capabilities in computer network operations have
advanced sufficiently to pose genuine risk to U.S. military
operations in the event of a conflict,” according to a March
report by the U.S.-China Economic Security Review Commission, a
group created by Congress to monitor China.  Using a secure portal called DIBnet, the Pentagon will
provide both classified and unclassified information on
cybersecurity threats, and defenses against them, to companies
that have security clearances and agree to participate,
according to Rosenbach and Hale.  ‘Special Intelligence’  “You are using special intelligence information derived
somewhere else in the world to put into” cybersecurity,
Rosenbach said in the interview. “So it is more active than
simply waiting for an attack to come.”  Internet providers such as  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and
defense contractors including  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  have said
they participated in the pilot program and intended to continue
in an expanded effort.  “We might share with the companies what kind of cyber
attack trends we are seeing inside DoD -- if a particular kind
of phishing attack, for instance, has become more prevalent,”
Hale said.  Rosenbach said participants also may elect to join an
“enhanced effort” under which the Defense Department will
provide fixes for each type of threat to Internet providers and
other eligible companies, which in turn will screen the network
traffic flowing to the contractors. That initiative has been in
testing for a year.  Cybersecurity Legislation  While the Pentagon initiative is based on voluntary
information-sharing, President  Barack Obama  has threatened to
veto legislation that also would encourage government and
companies to share data voluntarily while giving business legal
immunity for such exchanges. The measure passed the Republican-
controlled House on April 26.  Instead, Obama has backed legislation in the  Democratic-
controlled Senate that would give the Department of Homeland
Security authority to regulate the cybersecurity of vital
systems such as power grids and transportation networks.  The Senate bill has “robust privacy protections, which the
House bill lacks,” Caitlin Hayden, a White House spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail. “The administration believes information
sharing is an essential component of comprehensive legislative
reform, but not alone sufficient to address the critical
infrastructure vulnerabilities that threaten our nation’s
security.”  Booz Allen, SAIC  Lockheed, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , and New York-based
Verizon have said they would take the Pentagon-provided
information and offer a package of cybersecurity services for a
fee to other contractors. The companies have said they are
working to determine how much customers would have to pay for
such services that draw on the U.S. intelligence.  Booz Allen  Hamilton Holding Corp. and  SAIC Inc. (SAI) , both based
in McLean,  Virginia , and  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) , based in  Falls
Church , Virginia, participated in developing and running the
cyber information-sharing program, according to Jason Wilson, an
analyst with Bloomberg Government. In addition to Verizon,
Internet providers AT&T Inc. and CenturyLink Inc., joined the
pilot program.  Companies that choose not to participate won’t be penalized
when bidding for defense contracts, Hale said. U.S. subsidiaries
of foreign-owned contractors must have a security clearance to
participate in the program, he said.  “The expansion of voluntary information-sharing between
the department and the defense industrial base represents an
important step forward in our ability to stay current with
emerging cyber threats,”   Ashton Carter , deputy defense
secretary, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  