-- Peru Signals Readiness to Respond After Keeping Rate at 4.25%
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-05-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/peru-signals-readiness-to-respond-after-keeping-rate-at-4-25-.html
Peru ’s central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged yesterday for a 12th month and signaled its
readiness to respond to any shifting inflation expectations
after boosting  reserve requirements  to tame credit growth.  The seven-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde, maintained the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, matching
the forecasts of all 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “The board is monitoring the outlook for inflation and its
determinants so it can consider additional adjustments to
monetary policy instruments,” the central bank said in a
statement posted on its  website .  Peru raised the amount of money banks must deposit at the
central bank on May 1 for the first time in a year as the
economy expanded faster than expected and credit demand
accelerated. Further increases in reserve ratios may be needed
to rein in above-target inflation and restrain the sol’s 5.4
percent rally against the dollar in the last 12 months, said
 Mario Guerrero , an economist at Scotiabank Peru.  “The bank will use reserve requirements to keep a lid on
liquidity and the currency and only raise interest rates if
inflation persists and inflation expectations rise,” Guerrero
said in a phone interview from Lima.  Growth is quickening in  South America ’s sixth-largest
economy after a rebound in business confidence as the government
rolls out infrastructure-focused stimulus measures to offset
weaker demand for the country’s metal exports.  Convergence  Economic activity expanded 7.2 percent in February, the
fastest pace in six months, after the outlook for global growth
improved and President Ollanta Humala took steps to mollify
protests that have delayed mining investments.  The central bank may raise its 2012 growth forecast to as
much as 6.2 percent from a March 23 projection of 5.7 percent on
stronger investment growth, Velarde told investors and reporters
during an April 27 conference call.  Inflation, which slowed to 4.1 percent in April, will
return to the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target
toward the end of this year, he said.  Policy makers yesterday said that “while internal supply
shocks are being observed, their impact on inflation is expected
to revert with greater intensity beginning mid-year, so that the
annual inflation rate converges to the target range.”  Inflation expectations are within the central bank’s target
range, they said.  Consumer prices rose 0.5 percent last month, keeping the
annual rate above 4 percent for a seventh month, as food and
fuel prices climbed, the national statistics agency said May 1.
The median estimate of 13 economists in a Bloomberg survey was
for a 0.35 percent rise.  Inflow Concern  By keeping lending rates unchanged, the bank runs the risk
of inflationary pressures in non-food segments intensifying,
said  Daniel Volberg , an economist at Morgan Stanley.  “With its currency still under pressure to strengthen, the
central bank appears concerned that hiking interest rates might
simply fuel even stronger inflows,” Volberg wrote in a May 7
report. Still, he predicts the bank will raise its benchmark
rate by as much as 75 basis points this year.  The central bank has  bought $8 billion  in the spot currency
market this year to slow appreciation as companies and
households switch their savings to soles from dollars and
foreign investors buy Peruvian  government bonds .  Peru’s  international reserves  rose to $57.5 billion as of
April 30, from $48.8 billion at the end of December, because of
the bank’s dollar purchases.  The sol touched 2.6330 per  U.S. dollar  on May 2, its
strongest since 1997. Its 12-month rally represents the best
performance against the dollar among 25 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg worldwide.  Dollars, U.S. Rates  The central bank described the increase in reserve
requirements as a “preventive” move to tighten  money supply 
after companies stepped up borrowing in dollars to take
advantage of record-low  interest rates  in the U.S.  Annual growth in bank lending rose 17.6 percent on a
seasonally-adjusted basis, the fastest since September, led by
demand for credit in dollars, the central bank said May 8.  The bank wants to make the financial system less vulnerable
in the case of a sudden depreciation in the sol that would make
it more costly for borrowers to pay back their dollar loans,
which constitute 44 percent of all bank credit.  ‘Continue Monitoring’  “We expect the central bank to continue monitoring the
dollarization situation very closely and will preventively use
reserve requirements to prevent credit growth and currency
mismatches in the private sector’s balance sheet from getting
out of hand,” Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Latin America
economist Camilo Gonzalez wrote in a research note e-mailed to
investors.  Though the increase to reserve requirements may have eased
pressure on the central bank to raise its benchmark rate in the
short term, the two policy tools usually go hand in hand, said
Dirk Willer, the head of Latin American local markets strategy
at Citigroup Inc.  The bank’s move “shows growth is probably a little bit too
strong,” Willer said by phone from  New York . “If food prices
start to go up again, inflation could easily miss the central
bank’s target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 