-- Philippine Peso Drops on Resurgent Europe Risk; Bonds Rally
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-05-11T08:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/philippine-peso-drops-on-resurgence-of-europe-risk-bonds-gain.html
The Philippine peso completed its
first weekly decline in almost two months as the political
impasse in  Greece  raised concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
worsen, damping demand for emerging-market assets. Bonds gained.  Asian  stocks  and currencies dropped this week as Greek
leaders prepare to enter a fifth day of talks today to try and
resolve differences over policies and form a new government. The
global economic slowdown is cutting demand for Philippine
exports, which contracted in March for a ninth month in a year.  “People are slowly bringing their expectations for world
growth to the ground,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market
strategist at BDO Unibank Inc. in Manila. “The problems we had
in 2011 are still here. The U.S. recovery is still fragile and
euro-zone concerns are still there.”  The peso fell 0.6 percent this week to 42.565 per dollar at
the 4 p.m. close in  Manila , and declined 0.4 percent today,
prices from Tullett Prebon Plc show. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, rose 80 basis points to 5.50 percent this week and was
unchanged today.  The yield on 8 percent government bonds due July 2031 fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.92 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services. The rate increased
three basis points this week.  Overseas sales dropped 1.2 percent from a year earlier to
$4.3 billion, a report showed yesterday. The central bank will
report March remittances data on March 15. Money sent home from
abroad rose 5.8 percent in February from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  