-- Phono Solar to Partner With Suntech Amid Price Declines
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-11T08:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/phono-solar-to-partner-with-suntech-amid-price-declines.html
Phono Solar Technology Co. , a state-
owned solar module-maker, agreed to team with  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP)  in sun-powered businesses amid a supply glut and
declining prices that have depressed profits.  “We’ll jointly seek opportunities to develop solar
farms,” Cai Jibo, president of Phono Solar, said in a phone
interview. “The partnership will make our advantages
complementary.” Suntech is the biggest crystalline module
maker.  Phono Solar is diversifying into project development as
“purely producing modules faces intensified competition and
irrational pricing,” Cai said yesterday. The company plans to
develop 50 megawatts of solar farms this year in  China ’s eastern
provinces of Jiangsu and Shandong and the northwestern region of
Xinjiang.  Solar manufacturers are suffering from an oversupply as
European governments cut back on subsidies. Module prices have
tumbled almost 50 percent to 85 U.S. cents a watt, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “It’s a strategic framework agreement, we are still
discussing terms on the cooperation,” Zhang Jianmin, a Suntech
spokesman, said today by phone.  Phono Solar has a capacity to make 450 megawatts of solar
modules each year, Cai said. The Nanjing-based company also
plans to develop overseas solar-power projects in the U.S. and
 Greece .  Cai said the company expects to increase shipments by 35
percent from about 300 megawatts a year ago. China will account
for 20 percent of Phono’s shipments this year, more than double
from 2011, he said.  Phono Solar in April agreed to supply  SYBAC Solar AG  of
 Germany  with 500 megawatts of solar modules within five years
for 300 million euros ($388 million). Under the agreement, the
modules will be for projects in Germany, France and the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  