-- Pistol-Packing Grandma Helps NRA Push State Pro-Gun Laws
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-05-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/pistol-packing-grandma-helps-nra-push-state-pro-gun-laws.html
The woman responsible for many of the
nation’s most permissive gun laws is a 4-foot-11, 73-year-old
grandmother who carries a Smith & Wesson .38 Special with a
laser sight in her purse.  Marion Hammer, top lobbyist for the  National Rifle
Association  in Florida, translates personal experiences into
policies replicated in statehouses around the country. Among
them was the Stand Your Ground law allowing deadly force in
self-defense, which generated nationwide controversy after the
Feb. 26 shooting of Trayvon Martin, an unarmed Florida teenager.
She also championed a model concealed-carry law that the NRA
said last year had spread to 29 other states.  Most recently, Florida lawmakers restricted doctors from
asking about guns in the home after the silver-haired Hammer
complained that a Tallahassee pediatrician questioned her
granddaughter. At least five states are considering similar
measures.  “There is no single individual responsible for enacting
more pro-gun legislation in the states than Marion Hammer,”
said Richard Feldman, a former political organizer for the
Fairfax, Virginia-based NRA.  Hammer’s blue eyes match the brightly colored blazer she
often wears to watch her bills become law, like one in 2008 that
lets workers keep guns in cars parked at work. Her hair has been
fashioned in a pageboy style for decades. A thin gold necklace
usually accessorizes her business attire.  NRA President  Hammer, who served as the first female president of the NRA
for three years in the 1990s, was inducted into the Florida
Women’s Hall of Fame in March 2005 after being nominated by
then-attorney general and eventual Republican Governor  Charlie Crist . A month later, she stood over then-Governor  Jeb Bush ’sright shoulder as he signed the Stand Your Ground bill on her
66th birthday.  “She’s a tenacious person,” said Governor  Rick Scott , a
Republican who credited Hammer for helping him capture his
party’s 2010 nomination, a race he won by 2.8 percentage points.  Because Hammer is a registered Democrat, she can’t vote in
the Republican primaries she and the NRA have influenced. Hammer
has maintained her party affiliation for decades, dating to an
era when North Florida Democrats ran the state. Republicans have
since taken control.  Eddie Eagle  A safety advocate who created Eddie Eagle, the NRA’s
version of Smokey Bear, Hammer enjoys movies with the
grandchildren she raises, and wakes at 4:30 each morning to read
news and cook breakfast, said her sister, Carolyn Davis, of
Sandy Springs,  Georgia . Hammer has raised the two children since
1996 when their mother -- the youngest of Hammer’s own three
children -- was diagnosed with a fatal brain tumor.  Among colleagues inside the Capitol, she’s known as a
relentless crusader. She can also hold a grudge.  A year after Audubon of Florida’s president backed gun-show
regulations that Hammer opposed, she lobbied against one of the
environmental group’s priorities: naming the scrub jay the
state’s official bird. During a legislative hearing, she
denounced the endangered pale blue-and-gray bird’s propensity to
beg for food as epitomizing a “welfare mentality.”  Her temper can flare in front of powerful political
players. She yelled at Ken Plante, then-chief of staff for Bush,
a Republican, when a vote on a gun bill was canceled after the
1999 Columbine High School shooting, which killed 13 people.  ‘She’s Dogmatic’  “She’s very committed to what she’s trying to get done and
that’s all she can see,” Plante said. “She’s dogmatic.”  Hammer, who declined an interview request, retains her sway
despite a decline in membership in United Sportsmen of  Florida ,
the NRA affiliate she runs in the Sunshine State. In 2010, the
group collected $31,360 in dues, down 24 percent from 2008,
according to Internal Revenue Service records. Gifts and other
contributions, meanwhile, totaled $238,325 in 2010, up 30
percent from two years before.  Hammer earned an average of $244,000 per year from United
Sportsmen and the NRA from 2008-2010, according to IRS records.  After taking office in January 2011, Scott signed a pair of
gun bills backed by Hammer within four months.  Among them was the “docs versus Glocks” law that emerged
from the pediatrician visit. Hammer argued that the doctors’
questions could lead to the creation of a database of gun
owners. The Florida Medical Association opposed the legislation,
saying doctors ask about guns for safety reasons, the same way
they inquire about where poisons are stored in the home.  Free-Speech Matter  U.S. District Court Judge Marcia G. Cooke in Miami blocked
enforcement of the measure, approved by the Legislature last
year, while a lawsuit continues by doctors claiming it violates
their First Amendment rights.  In the balance is similar legislation in  Alabama ,
 Minnesota ,  North Carolina ,  Oklahoma  and  West Virginia , according
to the  American Academy  of Pediatrics.  Florida Representative Jason Brodeur, a Sanford Republican
who sponsored the measure, said that Hammer described the
pediatrician visit as she lobbied for it.  While personal experience often drives Hammer’s gun bills,
it pushes her into other debates also.  She lobbied to let dyslexic children such as her grandson
use talking computers during standardized tests. She got money
in the state budget to pay for speed-limit signs in front of
private schools like the one the boy attended.  Her First .22  This year, Hammer helped defeat a property-insurance bill
favored by a company that dropped her as a client after she
filed a claim, according to an insurance lobbyist who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Born Marion Alberta Price in Columbia,  South Carolina 
during President  Franklin D. Roosevelt ’s second term, Hammer
moved to her paternal grandparents’ farm at age 5 after her
father died in World War II.  She got her first gun then, too: her father’s .22 single-
shot rifle.  “Your dad died for our freedoms,” Hammer’s grandfather
told her, as she recalled during her 2005 Hall of Fame induction
speech. “Protecting these freedoms is part of your heritage.”  A champion long-gun shooter as a youngster, Hammer dropped
out of college in 1958 to marry a U.S. Coast Guard member,
according to Davis. They settled in Tallahassee in 1974. Her
husband, whom she divorced in 1980, was hired to build the
state’s 22-story Capitol and Hammer may end up spending parts of
six decades walking its halls. She plans to keep lobbying for at
least another 10 years, said Lori Weems, a lobbyist in
Tallahassee whom Hammer has mentored.  Replica Musket  Her office, three blocks from the Capitol, is cluttered
with awards and gun paraphernalia.  A replica Charleville musket is mounted above her desk. On
one wall hangs a silhouette target, its 2-inch-wide center ring
riddled by bullet holes. Eagles made of brass, clay or crushed
pecan shells are displayed in various poses.  Among more than a dozen framed certificates are the “First
Ever Award for Ass Kicking” from the Florida Police Benevolent
Association and her state permit to carry a concealed weapon,
license No. 0000001.  In her most recent family portrait, Hammer smiles as she
and the grandchildren each hold one of their three Ragdoll cats.
Hammer cradles hers just below the NRA logo stitched across the
left breast of her button-down shirt.  Second Family  Hammer speaks publicly about the NRA as a second family,
and she has blended both.  Her grandchildren were lifetime NRA members at birth. The
entire family would tag along at conventions when Hammer was
president, Davis said.  “We met  Rush Limbaugh , Barbara Mandrell, Chuck Norris,”
Davis said. “We’d sit up front with all the movie stars.”  Like much of the career that followed, Hammer’s first taste
of legislative action was personal. In 1974, she helped fellow
enthusiasts defeat a proposed ban on black powder.  The bill was crafted to eliminate an ingredient in pipe
bombs. Hammer argued it would also wipe out one of her favorite
pastimes, shooting muzzleloaders -- guns in which ammunition and
gun powder are loaded into the barrel’s open end.  By 1978, Hammer was running the United Sportsmen of
Florida.  Repelling a Threat  The Stand Your Ground law started with a Hammer anecdote:
She was alone in a parking garage at night when a car full of
men threatened to assault her with their long-neck  beer bottles ,
she would later tell lawmakers.  Hammer pulled a Colt Detective .38 Special from her purse
and aimed at the driver. She exhaled as the vehicle sped away.  A television debate in the 1990s in which she retold the
story foreshadowed her lobbying for the Stand Your Ground law.  Hammer was debating federal background checks for gun
purchases with then-Tallahassee Police Chief Melvin Tucker. Had
Hammer pulled the trigger, he told her, she would’ve been
arrested for using deadly force. Tucker, a gun-control
supporter, recalled the moment in an interview.  Tucker remembers saying to Hammer: “You cannot just shoot
at somebody because you think, ’What if he comes up to me?’”  After the television appearance, Hammer persuaded
Tallahassee’s mayor to stop Tucker from taking a public position
on the federal proposal, Tucker said.  ‘Dangerous Mission’  She later started researching self-defense cases and
eventually drafted Stand Your Ground.  The law has been replicated by about half the states. After
the shooting death of Martin, 17, in Sanford, outside  Orlando ,
several states are considering amending or repealing the law.
Attorney Mark O’Mara says he might use the Florida law to defend
George Zimmerman, a Neighborhood Watch volunteer charged
in Martin’s killing. Zimmerman, who faces a count of second-
degree murder, said he fired in self-defense.  Hammer’s story about the law’s inspiration is the “dark
and dangerous mission” of the pro-gun lobby made manifest, said
Dan Gross of the Washington-based Brady Center to Prevent Gun
Violence.  “It’s always these nebulous instances they use to conjure
up fear in the name of protecting innocent lives,” Gross said.
“It seems like in the case of Trayvon Martin, all it did was
cost an innocent life.”  With the push to amend Stand Your Ground, Hammer will be
busy holding her gains. Scott said new gun laws are not among
his priorities when lawmakers return to Tallahassee in 2013. A
 task force  he assembled is traveling the state now taking
testimony about self-defense laws.  Even so, the gun-wielding grandmother shouldn’t be
underestimated, said Republican state Senator Charlie Dean, who
survived a primary challenge from a Hammer-backed candidate in
2007.  “Marion is a very strong-willed person and has a lot of
drive to do what she wants to do,” said Dean, a former sheriff
in central Florida’s Citrus County. “If she gets something in
her sights, get ready for a fight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  