-- Scene Last Night: Einhorn, Tepper, Falcone, Blavatnik
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-05-11T13:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/poker-with-david-einhorn-ballet-with-blavatnik-scene.html
David Einhorn , chairman and founder
of Greenlight Capital, took home victory last night at the 7th
annual  Hillel  Texas Hold’em Tournament.  The event at the  W Hotel  on the East Side of Midtown
Manhattan went until half past midnight and raised about
$500,000 for Hillel, which promotes Jewish engagement on college
campuses.  “I’ve gotta stop hosting poker tournaments,” Einhorn said
as he walked out with his trophy. “I won the last poker
tournament I hosted too.”  That event was on behalf of the Michael J. Fox Foundation
for Parkinson’s, and was one of many such wins.  All for good causes, and with friends to help out.
Einhorn’s co-hosts last night were  David Tepper  of Appaloosa
Management LP,  Boaz Weinstein  of Saba Capital Management LP, and
Keith Rosenbloom of CARE Capital Group.  “University of Michigan had a great Hillel,” said
Weinstein, adding that Rabbi James Ponet -- of the Hillel at
Yale, his wife’s alma mater -- had officiated at their marriage.  Einhorn said he only won one hand in the first rounds, but
later his momentum picked up. For his prize, he chose a private
dinner party for 10 catered by  Foremost , an elite kosher
catering company.  Second-place winner Phil Medici of the institutional broker
dealer LiquidNet chose the trip to Oregon; third-place winner
David Key, who works in the event-driven group of Ionic Capital
Management LLC, left with a ski trip to Stratton, Vermont.  “You are awesome players,” Einhorn told Medici and Key.  Ballet Gala  Len Blavatnik, chairman and founder of Access Industries,
took out his turquoise camera to photograph his wife, Emily at
the  New York City Ballet  “A La Francaise” gala last night.  The Blavatniks were co-chairmen of the gala, which raised
$2 million and drew 800 guests including hedge-funders  Philip Falcone  of  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) ,  John Paulson  of Paulson & Co.
and David MacCallum of Outer Island Capital, which, MacCallum
said, over the past 10 years has had returns of 130 percent.  Leon Black, the chairman, CEO and founder of  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO) , was so relaxed that he took his tie off.  The  Elie Nadelman  sculptures at the David H. Koch Theater
had backdrops of Provencal garden scenes, enlarged photographs
taken by interior designer  Charlotte  Moss on her travels.
Wisteria hung from trellises suspended above the tables.  “I always say we have the easy lifting,” said Moss, co-
chair of the event. “We pick the menu, sell a few tickets and
write a few thousand notes.”  The dinner was white and green asparagus with shaved black
truffles and chicken served with “potato nests,” which looked
much like geometrically-sophisticated potato chips.  Portman, Barrymore  Natalie Portman  sat with her beau Benjamin Millepied and
the creative team that worked with him on the ballet he
choreographed for the gala: Rodarte designers, sisters Kate and
Laura Mulleavy (who did the costumes for “Black Swan,” the
film that won Portman an Academy Award), and composer Nico Muhly
among others.  Drew Barrymore, the actress and producer, sat with her
fiance, Will Kopelman, and his family, including future sister-
in-law Jill Kargman, who has a novel coming out May 22  titled
“The Rock Star in 3A.”  Kopelman said he’s in town to attend his bachelor party
over the weekend. The couple plans to marry in June.  The program also included a new ballet choreographed by
Peter Martins, ballet master in chief, with costumes by Gilles
Mendel.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include:  Lewis Lapham  on  history ,
Zinta Lundborg’s  New York   weekend .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 