-- Private Equity Funding Brazilian Home Builders: Mortgages
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-05-11T13:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/private-equity-funding-brazilian-home-builders-mortgages.html
Brazil ’s  homebuilders  are turning to
private-equity firms for financing as banks withdraw lending
after cost overruns added to rising debt burdens.  Billionaire  Sam Zell ’s Equity International, Paladin Realty
Partners LLC and Prosperitas are offering to fill a funding gap
as Brazil’s President  Dilma Rousseff  tries to make good on her
promise of 2 million new homes by 2014. The portion of  bank
deposits  used to finance  home construction  fell 17 percent in
the first quarter to 6 billion reais ($3.1 billion) from a year
earlier as loans to buy houses rose 32 percent to 11.6 billion,
according to Abecip, Brazil’s mortgage lenders association.  “That gap is very profitable and it’s virtually unlimited
in terms of potential opportunities,” said Gary Garrabrant,
Equity International’s chief executive officer and a co-founder
with Zell. “I’d be delighted to invest hundreds of millions of
dollars into this sector.”  Banks are tightening credit to homebuilders after surging
labor costs shrank margins and triggered costly delays,
according to Guilherme Rocha, an analyst with Credit Suisse
Group AG, even as Brazil’s central bank cuts  interest rates  to a
near-record low to bolster economic growth. Investors are being
enticed to lend directly to construction projects with returns
of as much as 23 percent, almost three times the 8 percent yield
for global high-yield, or junk-rated debt.  More Aggressive Lending  “Brazilian banks really don’t like to lend,” said
Garrabrant, who’s based in  Chicago . That caution, in the midst
of a real estate boom, contrasts with U.S. and European banks,
which helped inflate housing markets prior to the 2008 financial
crisis, creates openings for foreign investors, he said. “If
Brazilian banks would be more aggressive, there wouldn’t be
investment opportunities for international lenders,” he said.  Homebuilder  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  has seen its borrowing costs rise
after projects were canceled and margins narrowed. It posted a
31.5 million reais loss in the first quarter, following a 1.03
billion-reais loss in the prior period.  The Sao Paulo-based company last month had to increase the
yield spread it pays on real-denominated floating-rate debt due
2018, after breaching bond covenants, taking the all-in cost to
11.5 percent from 10.2 percent. Gafisa fell 0.6 percent to 3.61
reais as of 10:35 a.m. in Sao Paulo, extending a 58 percent
decline in the past year.  While debt capital markets are expensive, there is ample
funding available from private-equity firms, fund managers, and
strategic investors, said Gafisa Chief Executive Officer Alceu Duilio Calciolari.  ‘Much More Attractive’  “We continue to see a lot of interest from investors to
participate at the project level, not exactly at the company
level,” he said. “Now with the interest rate going down, it’s
becoming much more attractive for this type of investor.”  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini has lowered
Brazil’s target rate 350 basis points since August to a near
record low 9 percent after growth in the second-largest
emerging-market economy slowed to 2.7 percent last year, from
7.5 percent in 2010. Policy makers may cut another 50 basis
points this month, futures trading shows.  In a typical project, homebuilders put up the first 30
percent of financing, the private-equity firm invests the next
20 percent, and bank lending covers the remaining half,
according to Max Lima, founder of Sao Paulo-based Prosperitas,
which oversees $2 billion in equity investments.  “Homebuilders in general are in trouble, they’re over-
levered on the corporate level,” Lima said in a telephone
interview. “We’re going into the project level and putting
money in there. We get returns that are not as attractive as
equity but better than debt.”  Mezzanine Lending  Mezzanine lending for construction projects in Brazil can
produce 18 percent to 23 percent returns, he estimated. Yields
on global high-yield debt have fallen from 9.4 percent at the
start of the year to 8 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data, as central banks globally try to lower
borrowing costs.  Paladin, which has invested in  emerging markets  since 1995,
recently bought preferred stock in a private homebuilding
company, departing from its typical role of being a pure equity
investor, according to CEO James Worms.  The company, You Inc. Incorporadora e Participacoes SA,
needed additional capital that it couldn’t get from banks or
equity investors, Worms said. The investment is similar to
mezzanine debt because it included mandatory redemptions of
underlying stock, he said.  Mezzanine Lending  “Brazil is a market where mezzanine lending makes sense,
especially for international investors who are new to the
market,” Worms said by telephone from  Los Angeles . “Equity
investors in emerging markets are going to look for a 25 percent
type internal rate of return regardless of what and where the
investment is. Mezzanine lenders accept a lower return, probably
closer to 20, because the risk is a little less.”  The Brazilian government may aid local homebuilders in
financial distress by asking state-run lender Caixa Economica
Federal to extend credit to the sector, Planning Minister Miriam Belchior told reporters in Brasilia last month.  Belchior said industry leaders complained during a meeting
with government officials in February that working capital had
become scarce.  Rousseff, a former Marxist guerrilla who became Brazil’s
first female president in January 2011 vowing to maintain the
market-friendly policies of Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, said last
month that the interest rates charged by Brazilian banks are too
high. In her weekly radio address on May 7 she said Brazil’s
banking system is so profitable “it can perfectly do its part”
by reducing loan rates.  Lack of Financing  Caixa and Banco do Brasil SA, another state-owned lender,
said last month they will cut rates and Itau Unibanco Holding SA
and  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , Brazil’s biggest non-government banks,
are preparing cuts in interest rate on loans to companies and
individuals, newspaper O Estado de S. Paulo reported May 9,
citing the lenders’ chief executive officers.  Lack of financing for homebuilders conflicts with the
expectations of the government to meet housing targets and the
demands of an emerging middle class.  While some sectors of Brazil’s economy have been hit by
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and a three-year currency rally
that’s undermined exports, consumer demand has been buoyed by
record-low unemployment and an expansion in credit.  Mortgage lending equals 4.7 percent of gross domestic
product in Brazil, compared with 67 percent in the U.S. The
government wants to raise that ratio to 10 percent by 2014.  “The unmet demand for housing remains at a very high
level,” said Garrabrant of Equity International. “That’s where
demand lies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in  New York  at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  