-- Producer Prices U.S. Decrease for First Time in Four Months
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-05-11T12:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/producer-prices-in-u-s-decrease-for-first-time-in-four-months.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S. fell in
April for the first time in four months, led by a decline in
fuel costs that signals inflation may cool.  The  producer price index  dropped 0.2 percent after no
change in March, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. Economists projected the gauge would be unchanged in
April, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. The 1.9 percent increase over the past 12 months was the
smallest since October 2009.  Falling raw-material costs mean companies will have less
incentive to charge customers more. Slowing inflation would
underscore views of some Federal Reserve policy makers who have
said higher fuel prices will have only a temporary effect,
allowing the central bank to stick to its plan to keep  interest
rates  low at least until late 2014.  “Inflation’s not really a worry, neither is deflation at
this stage,” said Sean Incremona, a senior economist at 4Cast
Inc. in  New York , who accurately forecast a decline in the
producer-price index. “It doesn’t seem like there’s much cause
for companies to pass along costs at this point.”  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after the report.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in June
dropped 0.8 percent to 1,347.3 at 8:45 a.m. in New York after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. revealed it had a $2 billion trading loss.  So-called core prices, which exclude food and fuel, rose
0.2 percent in April, matching the median forecast of economists
surveyed, after climbing 0.3 percent the prior month, today’s
report showed. About a quarter of the increase in April was
attributable to pharmaceuticals, the report said.  Core Cools  The core index advanced 2.7 percent over the past year, the
smallest 12-month gain since August.  Fuel expenses dropped 1.4 percent last month, the biggest
decrease since October, while food costs climbed 0.2 percent.  Oil prices  have kept retreating after reaching the highest
level this year. Brent oil for May delivery has dropped 11
percent through yesterday’s close from a peak of $126.22 a
barrel on March 13.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on April 25 that a rise
in gasoline prices “has created a temporary bulge” in
inflation that’s likely to “pass through the system.”  Cheaper agriculture and materials may reduce pressure on
companies to raise prices on American consumers facing an 8.1
percent unemployment rate. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
commodity index was 294.83 yesterday, down 9.5 percent from a
five-month high reached Feb. 24.  Commodity Costs  That decline has helped food companies like  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)   “We are currently not anticipating any significant
commodity inflation,” Mark Garvey, chief financial officer at
the  Downers Grove , Illinois-based firm, said on a May 3 earnings
call.  The cost of intermediate goods dropped 0.5 percent, the
most since October, reflecting the drop in energy expenses,
today’s report showed. Crude prices decreased 4.4 percent, a
decline last exceeded in February 2009.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. The cost of goods imported
into the U.S. fell 0.5 percent last month, reflecting lower
costs for fuel. The consumer-price index is due May 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  