-- Putin’s Aerospace Rebirth Ambition Hangs on SuperJet Crash Probe
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-05-11T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/putin-s-aerospace-rebirth-ambition-hangs-on-superjet-crash-probe.html
President  Vladimir Putin ’s ambition
to revive Russia’s aerospace industry will hang on one question
dominating the Sukhoi Superjet crash probe in Indonesia this
week: pilot or plane?  Investigators have located the remains of the 90-seat
Russian-built aircraft that crashed into a mountainside on May 9
with 45 people on board. Salvage crews also spotted the flight
recorder, which may offer vital clues to the cause of the crash,
after the same jet had performed flawlessly on earlier flights
piloted by an expert crew.  “There’s a very good chance this crash wasn’t related to
the design of the plane, but battling negative perceptions is
very difficult,” said  Richard Aboulafia , vice president of Teal
Group in Fairfax, Virgina, an aviation consulting company.  At stake is Russia’s attempt to reassert itself on the
global aviation scene after a two-decade absence in the wake of
the collapse of the  Soviet Union . The SuperJet, which carries
about 100 passengers, was designed with Western partners and
equipped with cutting-edge systems, as Russia seeks to win a
slice of the regional jet market now dominated by incumbents
 Bombardier Inc (BBD/B)  and  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  of  Brazil .  The Superjet that crashed was on a promotional tour of
Asian nations. The same plane had already ferried other
potential customers and reporters on flights in Myanmar,
Pakistan and  Kazakhstan  and was scheduled to move on to Laos and
 Vietnam . Hours earlier, Putin hailed Russian military and
industrial might at a Red Square parade in Moscow to honor the
Soviet victory over Nazi  Germany  in World War II.  Fresh in Service  The twin-engine aircraft is the centerpiece of Putin’s
attempt to revive a manufacturing industry that has languished
since communism collapsed in 1991. The SuperJet, which Russia
spent about $1.4 billion developing with an Italian partner,
Rome-based  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s Alenia Aeronautica SpA, has a
range of 4,600 kilometers (2,800 miles) and comes with a price
tag of $35 million, according to the manufacturer.  Flawed design or technical malfunction would be potentially
devastating for a plane brought into commercial service a year
ago. The aircraft has been sold to Armenia’s Armavia and
Russia’s flagship airline OAO Aeroflot, and the eight units in
service for two carriers have accumulated more than 3,500
flights. PT Sky Aviation, an Indonesian carrier, has ordered 12
SuperJets.  Fatal Crash  The Sukhoi SuperJet crash in West Java is the most fatal
demonstration flight in three decades, according to London-based
aviation data provided Ascend Worldwide Ltd. All aircraft that
crashed on previous promotional flights carried fewer passengers
or had fewer fatalities, the data show.  “There’s a risk in a demonstration flight,” said  Paul Hayes , director of safety at Ascend. “When you’re flying
customers who’ve just bought the plane, or potential customers,
the pilot will want to show it off, and there’s always a risk
that you’ll go too far.”  There are no signs of survivors among the 45 people on
board, according to Indonesian authorities. Femi Adi, a
Bloomberg News reporter, is believed to have been among the
passengers on the plane.  The data and voice recorders were spotted and photographed,
Russia’s Deputy Industry and Trade Minister Yuri Slyusar said in
statement today. Russian authorities have dispatched support
crews to  Indonesia  to aid the investigation.  Deflecting Blame  Demonstration flights tend to be short, and the aircraft
typically fly at considerably less than full capacity, meaning
the plane is far lighter than on a commercial run, Ascend’s
Hayes said. That can give the pilots more leeway to bank sharply
or perform more acrobatically, he said, cautioning that no
assumptions can be drawn until the cockpit and voice recorders
have been analyzed.  Russian authorities moved quickly to deflect blame from the
aircraft, with acting Deputy Prime Minister  Dmitry Rogozin 
telling reporters on May 10 that the crash was probably caused
by human error and that the SuperJet has a “great future.”  Sukhoi said the jet had gone through a full pre-flight
check and displayed the “proper technical condition.” The jet
was commanded by a “very experienced crew” consisting of Chief
Test Pilot Alexander Yablontsev and co-pilot Alexander
Kochetkov, the company said in a statement after the crash.  Other aircraft have gone on to become blockbusters even
after a mishap. In 1988, an  Airbus A320  flying over Mulhouse-
Habsheim Airport in  France  as part of an air show flew off into
the woods after the pilot lost control in a risky manoeuvre,
killing three people in the fire that ensued upon landing. The
pilot’s license was removed, and the A320 has gone on to
becoming Airbus’s bestselling aircraft.  Poor Record  Russia  had the world’s worst safety record for  air travel 
last year, with at least five accidents that killed more than
100 people, according to Ascend data. Two of the world’s five
deadliest accidents in 2011 happened in Russia, including the
September crash of a Soviet-era Yakovlev-42 that killed the
entire Lokomotiv Yaroslavl professional hockey team.  Sukhoi, which is owned by United Aircraft Corp., had sought
to reverse the negative image of the domestic aviation industry,
and break into a market that promises to be among the most
lucrative segments in coming years.  While demand for 20- to 50-seat planes has shrunk, the
market for aircraft seating 60 to 99 passengers, such as the
Sukhoi model, should see demand for 5,800 new aircraft valued at
$208.6 billion over 20 years, according to Bombardier’s 2011
forecast.  Major Demand  The biggest demand will come for planes seating 100 to 149,
with a requirement for 7,000 new aircraft, valued at $423.7
billion projected over 20 years, Bombardier estimates.  Sukhoi has considered stretching the SuperJet to compete in
that category, where it would face further competition from
Bombardier’s planned Cseries, scheduled for entry into service
in 2014. At this point, the SuperJet has garnered 168 orders,
with a target of selling 800 planes over 20 years.  “This tragic accident represents a further setback to the
ambitious Russian civilian  aerospace industry ,” Tom Chruszcz
and Dmitri Kazakov at  Fitch Ratings  said in a report yesterday.
“Over the past decade the Russian state has invested heavily in
the sector in the hope of re-establishing the country as a
global technology and high-end manufacturing leader.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  