-- Rand Slumps to 4-Month Low on Europe Debt, JPMorgan Loss
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-05-11T14:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/rand-slumps-to-4-month-low-on-europe-debt-jpmorgan-loss.html
The rand slumped to its lowest level
in almost four months, set for its worst weekly decline this
year, as political turmoil in  Greece  and a $2 billion trading
loss at JPMorgan Chase & Co. roiled financial markets.  South Africa’s currency fell as much as 1.4 percent to
8.1272 per dollar, the weakest since Jan. 16. It traded 1.1
percent down at 8.1071 as of 3:34 p.m. in Johannesburg, bringing
its retreat this week to 3.6 percent. The yield on the nation’s
6.75 percent bonds due 2021 rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage points, to 7.73 percent.  Greek political leaders enter a fifth day of talks to form
a government as the European Commission said the euro-region
economy will likely contract 0.3 percent this year. The 17-
nation group buys 22 percent of  South Africa ’s exports. Stocks
and commodities tumbled after JPMorgan said “grievous
mistakes” and “sloppiness” caused the surprise loss on
synthetic credit securities, underscoring risks to global
financial markets.  “With  risk aversion  in the air, the traditional rush to
safe havens has lifted the dollar and seen the rand weaken to
more than 8 per dollar,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “The prevailing uncertainty will continue to weigh on
the euro and other risky assets, while continuing to lend
support to the dollar. Therefore, the rand’s weakening bias will
persist into the weekend.”  Commodities Slide  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials fell for
an eighth day and the MSCI  index  of emerging-market stocks
dropped to the lowest level since January 18.  South Africa’s benchmark stock index declined as commodity
producers including Anglo American Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd.
slumped. Metals and other raw materials account for 45 percent
of South Africa’s exports.  Greece’s political impasse has raised the possibility
another election will have to be held as early as next month,
threatening the implementation of austerity pledges. The
standoff has reignited European concerns over Greece’s ability
to hold to the terms of its two bailouts negotiated since May
2010 and sparked speculation about the country leaving the euro.  JPMorgan’s Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the $2
billion loss came after an “egregious” failure in its chief
investment office. Global stocks extended losses after
industrial production in  China  missed analysts’ estimates in
April, while data showed  India ’s production at factories,
utilities and mines declined in March.  “Markets look under pressure,”  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, analysts at Johannesburg-based Rand Merchant Bank,
said in e-mailed comments. The Greek turmoil and JPMorgan’s
losses are both “negatives for the rand”, they added.  The rand’s three-month implied volatility against the
dollar rose to 15.5 percent today, the highest since April 18,
as options traders anticipate wider swings in the currency in
coming weeks.  The cost of insuring the nation’s dollar-denominated
sovereign debt against default climbed 2.5 basis points to 161.5
basis points, the most since April 24, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  