-- Treasuries Head for Longest Stretch of Gains Since 1998
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-05-11T21:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/treasuries-head-for-longest-weekly-rally-since-1998.html
Treasuries rose in the longest streak
of weekly gains in more than 13 years, as  Greece  failed to form
a unity government, increasing concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is
worsening.  Ten-year yields  dropped for an eighth week, close to a
three-month low, as a $2 billion trading loss at  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  boosted demand for safe assets. Thirty-year bonds gained
as wholesale inflation declined last month and the  Federal
Reserve  bought $1.8 billion of longer-term securities.  “The appetite for U.S. Treasury paper is immense,” said
Paul Montaquila, head of fixed-income trading in  San Ramon ,
 California , at Bank of The West, a unit of BNP Paribas SA.
“Europe is a dysfunctional family. Every time rates get to
specific levels, the buying is incredibly strong.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.84 percent at 4:59 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note
maturing in May 2022 gained 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 6/32.  The yield slid from 1.88 percent last week. It dropped to
1.79 percent on May 9, the lowest since Jan. 31.  Rally Time  The last time Treasuries rallied for so long was a nine-
week advance that ended in October 1998, driven by demand for
safety after Russia said in August of that year it would allow
its currency to depreciate and delay some debt payments.  Valuation measures show Treasuries are near the most
expensive levels ever. The term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed, touched negative 0.77 percent,
approaching the most expensive closing level ever of 0.79
percent reached on Feb. 2. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value.  Average estimates for 10-year Treasury yields three months
from now are at 1.99 percent, 24 basis points lower than
expectations in April, according to a survey from Citigroup
Inc., published yesterday.  Respondents to the survey, which was completed between May
7 and yesterday, put the likelihood of a large discrete negative
shock coming out of Europe during the next three months at about
33 percent, with almost 67 percent stating the likelihood at
greater than 20 percent.  Europe Watch  “It’s the ongoing dislocations in Europe,” said  Chris Ahrens , head interest-rate strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
at UBS AG, one of 21 primary dealers that are obligated to bid
in  U.S. debt  auctions. “There’s a ramping up in anxiety and
that has rebounded to the benefit of Treasuries.”  Treasuries have gained 0.7 percent during the past month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Demand for
the securities has been boosted as Europe’s deepening debt
crisis threatens to slow growth around the world.  Greek Pasok party leader  Evangelos Venizelos  failed to
form a unity government after talks with political party leaders
and will hand back the three-day mandate to President Karolos
Papoulias tomorrow, Venizelos told reporters in  Athens  today, in
comments televised live on state-run NET.  The failure to form a government adds to speculation the
nation will abandon the euro as its currency amid a worsening
recession.  JPMorgan Result  Thirty-year Treasury yields dropped three basis points to
3.01 percent.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said late
yesterday the company suffered a $2 billion trading loss after
an “egregious” failure in a unit managing risks, jeopardizing
Wall Street banks’ efforts to loosen a federal ban on bets with
their own money.  “Everybody was kind of blindsided by the trading losses
and that’s helping Treasuries,” said  David Coard , head of
fixed-income trading in  New York  at Williams Capital Group, a
brokerage for institutional investors.  The difference between the 10-year  swap rate  and the yield
on similar-maturity U.S. debt was unchanged from the previous
day at 14 basis points. It widened May 9 to as much as 18 basis
points, the most since December. Swap rates are usually higher
than Treasury yields in part because the floating payments are
based on  interest rates  that contain credit risk. Swap rates
serve as benchmarks for investors in many types of debt,
including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  Price Pattern  Wholesale prices in the U.S. fell in April for the first
time in four months, led by a decline in fuel costs that signals
inflation may cool. The 1.9 percent increase over the past 12
months was the smallest since October 2009.  The  producer price index  dropped 0.2 percent after no
change in March, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . Economists projected the gauge would be unchanged in
April, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey.  The five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate , a measure
of traders’ inflation expectations that the Fed uses to help
guide monetary policy was at 2.6 percent, below its 2012 high of
2.8 percent and less than its five-year average of 2.79 percent.  The difference between the yields on the 10-year note and
10-year TIPS, known as the break-even rate, dropped to as low as
2.13 percentage points, the least since Feb. 2. The rate has
averaged 2.15 percentage points for the past 10 years.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment for May rose to 77.8 from 76.4 the
prior month. The gauge was projected to drop to 76, according to
the median forecast of 68 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Fed purchased Treasuries due from February 2036 to
August 2041 today, according to the Fed Bank of New York’s
 website . The purchases are part of the central bank’s program to
replace $400 billion of shorter-term debt in its holdings with
longer maturities by the end of June to hold down borrowing
costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  