-- Renault-Nissan to Take Control of Lada Maker AvtoVAZ
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-05-11T17:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/renault-nissan-to-take-control-of-lada-maker-avtovaz.html
Carlos Ghosn , chief executive officer
of the Renault-Nissan alliance that’s agreed to buy control of
 OAO AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) , said the Russian carmaker should sell all assets
that are unrelated to making automobiles.  “There are plenty of assets which are not dedicated to
this,” Ghosn, who runs both  Renault SA (RNO)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ,
said today in an interview in Yokohama, Japan. “From the
beginning, we’ve said that we’re not particularly interested in
these assets. So all these assets in our opinion can be sold and
put at better use.”  Renault and Nissan said last week they plan to invest $750
million to form a venture with Russian Technologies Corp. that
will own 74.5 percent of  Russia ’s largest carmaker by 2014.
Jeremie Papin, the lead negotiator for the Renault-Nissan
Alliance, said at the time that AvtoVAZ’s auto-supplying and
social-related activities may be among assets targeted for
disposal.  AvtoVAZ dropped 2.3 percent to 18.767 rubles, the lowest in
a week, at the close in Moscow. The stock has fallen 5.4 percent
this year.  As of the end of March, the Russian company’s non-
automotive assets included stakes in a printing house and
financial companies, holdings in a national racing series and
riverside resorts, as well as ownership of a property-
development company, according to the AvtoVAZ’s  website .  Trusting Komarov  Ghosn said he stood behind AvtoVAZ CEO Igor Komarov and
offered to provide support.  “He is in fact responsible and accountable for the results
of AvtoVAZ and we’ll give him all the necessary support --
management support, technological support, product support,”
Ghosn said. “I trust him and I think he can carry the company
further.”  Renault and Nissan are looking to the maker of Lada brand
vehicles to fuel growth in Russia, which the government
estimates may surpass  Germany  to become  Europe ’s biggest auto
market in 2014.  As part of the preliminary agreement, Russian Technologies
agreed to repay part of its outstanding loans in AvtoVAZ by
selling some of the automaker’s “non-core assets,” according
to the statement last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  