-- Romney Aide Says JPMorgan Loss Shows Oversight Importance
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-05-11T21:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/romney-aide-says-jpmorgan-loss-shows-importance-of-oversight.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s trading loss
of about $2 billion underscores the need for the “common-sense
regulation” of the financial industry that presumed Republican
nominee  Mitt Romney  would push as president, his campaign
spokeswoman said today.  The loss “demonstrates the importance of oversight and
transparency in the derivatives market,” something “Romney has
called for in the past,” Andrea Saul, his press secretary, said
in a statement.  If elected, Romney would push for “common-sense regulation
that gives regulators tools to do their jobs and that gives
investors more clarity,” she said, without specifying.  Romney has called for repeal the Dodd-Frank law that
tightened regulation of financial institutions, which includes a
ban on proprietary trading by banks with federally insured
deposits. President  Barack Obama  helped guide the measure into
law in 2010.  Romney, co-founder of private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC,
didn’t respond to a question from a reporter about the JPMorgan
loss at a campaign rally in  Charlotte , North Carolina this
afternoon.  Previous Comments  Asked what kinds of financial regulation Romney would
support as president, his campaign pointed to comments he made
last year while campaigning in New Hampshire. He said then he
said he would favor regulating derivatives and imposing
different capital requirements on different forms of securities.  The campaign also referred to the 59-point economic plan
Romney released on Sept. 6, 2011.  “Some of the concepts in Dodd-Frank have a place,” Romney
wrote in that document. “Greater transparency for inter-bank
relationships, enhanced  capital requirements , and provisions to
address new forms of complex financial transactions are all
necessary elements of effective financial reform. But these
concepts must be translated into law in a way that creates a
simple, predictable, and efficient regulatory system appropriate
for our dynamic economy.”  Obama’s re-election campaign used the disclosure of JP
Morgan’s trading losses to criticize Romney’s call for less
financial regulation.  “Rolling back  Wall Street  reform, as Mitt Romney proposes,
would be reckless,” Lis Smith, an Obama campaign spokeswoman,
said in a statement. “Returning to the failed policy of letting
Wall Street write their own rules would put all of us at greater
risk of another financial crisis and leave us vulnerable to
another taxpayer-funded bank bailout like the one shortly before
President Obama took office.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Charlotte,  North Carolina  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net 
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  at  