-- Romney Woos Social Conservatives with Liberty Speech
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-05-11T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/romney-woos-social-conservatives-with-liberty-speech.html
When  Mitt Romney  takes the stage
before 30,000 evangelical Christians at Liberty University
tomorrow, he’ll have a chance to quell concerns about him among
a group whose backing is key to his presidential campaign.  It’s a test he faces after a Republican primary in which
Romney’s opponents portrayed him as fickle in his opposition to
abortion rights and gay marriage.  Their doubts about Romney were on display four months ago
as a group of 150 evangelical leaders gathered at a ranch west
of Houston to decide which presidential contender to endorse.  Romney’s liaison at that gathering, Mark DeMoss, recalls
trying to persuade the attendees that his candidate shared their
stances on abortion and same-sex marriage -- a position the
campaign underscored this week after President  Barack Obama 
endorsed gay marriage. Ultimately, DeMoss fell short and the
group endorsed former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum .  “There has been a pretty aggressive negative campaign
against him -- not by the Democrats, but by a handful of self-
described conservatives or even evangelicals who have really
misrepresented his record in Massachusetts,” DeMoss, a Romney
adviser who runs a public relations firm serving Christian
groups, said in an interview. “That has made the hill probably
a little steeper for him with conservatives, but I think there’s
sufficient time to climb the hill, and I think he’s doing it.”  Beginning Climb  Romney, now the presumptive Republican nominee who will
face Obama, publicly begins that climb with the commencement
speech at Liberty, the evangelical Christian school in
Lynchburg,  Virginia , founded by the late televangelist Reverend
 Jerry Falwell .  The speech provides a chance for him to mend the rifts
DeMoss confronted and begin transforming the evangelicals’
animosity toward Obama into the turnout-driving energy and
intensity necessary to accomplish his task.  It also presents a risk as Romney, a former private-equity
executive, tries to focus on the economy and  jobs  while reaching
out to independent voters, many of whom are alienated by
discussions about curbing abortion rights and banning gay
marriage. Romney’s outreach to that constituency may have become
more complicated yesterday with reports that when he was in high
school he’d bullied a fellow student who was presumed to be gay.
Romney said he didn’t recall the incident, apologizing
nonetheless if it happened.  Skepticism About Romney  Some evangelical leaders who still harbor reservations
about Romney say their community fears he will compromise on
their issues or downplay their significance to avoid turning off
other groups.  “What a lot of conservatives are going to be looking at
for  Governor Romney , to move them from just voting for him to
going out to work for him, is will he be delivering a
consistent, conservative, principled message -- or will he do
the feared Etch A Sketch mode and either change his mind or stay
silent on the issues we care about,” said Bob Vander Plaats,
president of the Iowa-based Family Leader.  “I know that going into a general, you’ve got to be very
careful and it’s a delicate balance. But at the same time, if he
loses his base, you ask McCain and Dole how that worked out for
them,” he said, referring to  Arizona  Senator  John McCain  and
former Kansas Senator  Bob Dole , the losing Republican
presidential nominees in 2008 and 1996.  Weaker Start  Romney starts out with less support among evangelicals than
either McCain or former President  George W. Bush  won in the last
two elections. McCain won 73 percent in his unsuccessful run,
according to exit polls, while Bush captured 79 percent in his
victorious 2004 re-election race.  A  poll  released yesterday by the Public Religion Research
Institute and the Religion News Service found Romney leads Obama
68 percent to 19 percent among the group.  The survey showed Romney has gained substantially with
white evangelical Protestants, with his favorability at 67
percent compared with 40 percent in October 2011. Still, only 7
percent said they had a very favorable view of him.  The wariness of Romney’s critics stems from his past
statements. During the 2002 Massachusetts governor’s race,
Romney said he would “preserve and protect a woman’s right to
choose” to have an abortion. He announced in a 2005 Boston
Globe opinion piece that he was personally “pro-life” and
believed that abortion rights should be left up to the states.  Gay Marriage  While Romney has never publicly backed gay marriage, he
wrote in a 1994 letter to the  Log Cabin Republicans , a gay
Republican advocacy group, during his Senate challenge to the
late  Massachusetts  Senator Edward M. Kennedy that he favored
“full equality for America’s gay and lesbian citizens.”  He also told Bay Windows, a gay and lesbian newspaper, in
an interview during that campaign that he backed the position of
Massachusetts’ then-Governor Bill Weld that sick leave and
bereavement time “should be offered to gay couples.”  “When people trust someone on those issues, they don’t
need to talk about them,” Vander Plaats said. “The problem
with Romney is that I think he’s still working to develop that
trust.”  Complicating Romney’s job is his own Mormon religion, a
faith that some evangelicals view with suspicion.  Robert Jeffress, the pastor of a Texas mega-church, said
last year that Christians shouldn’t back someone who he said was
a non-Christian like Romney, and he called the Church of  Jesus
Christ  of Latter-Day Saints a cult. Some Liberty students
objected via the school’s Facebook social-networking page to the
selection of Romney as the commencement speaker, according to a
CNN report.  Advantage in Obama  Still, some Republican strategists say Romney has an
advantage that may outweigh all those challenges: his opponent.
Obama’s 2010  health-care  overhaul and his announcement this week
that he supports gay marriage are both opposed by the
evangelical community.  Ralph Reed, chairman of the Duluth, Georgia-based Faith and
Freedom Coalition, said Romney’s campaign has been wise to
change strategies from 2008, when he aggressively -- and
unsuccessfully -- courted the evangelical vote during his first
presidential bid. Instead, he has run his 2012 campaign as a
business-turnaround specialist focused almost exclusively on the
economy.  “Voters aren’t idiots -- they’re sophisticated, they’re
smart, and they’re not asking him to go down to the river and
get baptized. They just want to know that he shares their values
and hear him articulate their positions on key issues,” Reed
said. “He’s got some work to do; the good news is he knows it,
and the campaign knows it, and they’ve been busy about their
business.”  Focus on Economy  That includes public appeals like Romney’s speech tomorrow,
which is expected to focus on improving the economy and touch on
themes of faith, family, work and service. Meanwhile, he will
leave the behind-the-scenes work of courting religious
conservatives to DeMoss, a Liberty board member who will
introduce him tomorrow, and Peter Flaherty, a senior campaign
adviser who has strong ties to the evangelical community.  “He’s made up a lot of ground, and I think that a lot of
them are prepared to be impressed,” said  Richard Land , the
president of the Southern Baptist Convention’s Ethics and
Religious Liberty Commission, “because they are very, very,
very fearful of a second Obama term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  