-- Rosneft Plans Gas-to-Liquids Pilot Plant for Far East Fields
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-05-11T14:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/rosneft-to-begin-gas-to-liquids-output-at-angarsk-plant-in-2014.html
OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s largest oil
producer, plans to build a pilot plant in the country’s Far East
to process natural gas pumped out alongside oil into liquids,
according to a contractor with GTL technology.  The Moscow-based company plans to start a gas-to-liquids
facility with capacity of 100 barrels a day at its Angarsk
refinery in the eastern Irkutsk region in 2014, according to a
filing from  Oxford Catalysts Group Plc (OCG)  today, which said its
technology was selected for the project.  Rosneft is a minority partner in TNK-BP’s Far Eastern
Verkhnechonsk oil venture and plans to tap the Yurubcheno-
Takhomskoye deposits in the region, supplying crude to  Asia  via
the East Siberia Pacific Ocean pipeline. There are no trunk
networks to ship gas out of the region, making gas-to-liquids an
alternative as producers seek to use the fuel.  “Right now oil producers re-inject gas into deposits to
maintain pressure or use it to fuel  power plants  but GTL may
make sense because of a deficit of petrol in the region,”
 Alexander Nazarov , an oil and gas analyst at OAO Gazprombank,
said by telephone today.  GTL Plants  The Russian government wants oil producers to use 95
percent of the so-called associated gas, which is often burned
off due to a lack of pipelines. Rosneft may be looking to GTL as
it has lagged behind other companies in movement on meeting this
goal, Nazarov said.  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas pipeline and export monopoly, has
held back on major infrastructure and production projects in the
 Far East  as negotiations to sell the fuel to  China , the world’s
biggest energy consumer, remain deadlocked over price.  Rosneft may build more GTL capacity to process the gas it
produces alongside oil into either synthetic crude or products,
including diesel, Oxford said. Rosneft is looking at building a
GTL plant at its Novokuibyshevsk refinery in the Volga region to
produce motor fuels by 2014, RBC Daily reported on March 15,
citing an unidentified company official.  Rosneft spokesman Andrey Knutov didn’t respond to requests
for comment on the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  