-- Rothstein Firm Lawyer Lippman Pleads Guilty to Conspiracy
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-05-11T14:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/rothstein-firm-lawyer-lippman-pleads-guilty-to-conspiracy-1-.html
A former attorney in the  law firm  of
convicted Ponzi schemer Scott Rothstein pleaded guilty to
helping the firm illegally become the largest contributor to the
presidential campaign of Republican  John McCain  in 2008.  Steven N. Lippman, 49, admitted today in federal court in
 Fort Lauderdale , Florida, that he conspired to help Rothstein’s
defunct law firm, Rothstein, Rosenfeldt & Adler, illegally
“bundle” contributions to McCain’s losing campaign against
President Barack Obama.  Lippman is the eighth person accused of helping Rothstein,
a disbarred attorney serving 50 years in prison for the
$1.2 billion Ponzi scheme run from his law firm in Fort
Lauderdale. McCain, a senator from  Arizona , gave the money to
charity after Rothstein’s crimes came to light.  Prosecutors charged Lippman, a shareholder at RRA with no
equity stake, with helping to “dramatically increase the
political influence and power” of the firm by serving as a
straw donor who was illegally reimbursed. The firm repaid him
with money, home renovations, patio furniture, a golf membership
and a $134,000 Maserati, he admitted.  Lippman, who will be sentenced Sept. 14, pleaded guilty to
one count of conspiring to violate campaign finance laws and
defraud the U.S. government. He also admitted plotting to draw
checks on accounts with insufficient funds and to evade taxes.
He faces as long as five years in prison.  His attorney, Bruce Zimet, declined to comment after the
hearing. After the charge was filed on April 9, Zimet said
Lippman’s acts weren’t related to the  Ponzi scheme .  Wealthy Investors  Rothstein pleaded guilty to racketeering,  money laundering 
and  wire fraud . He admitted in 2010 that he persuaded wealthy
investors to buy stakes in what he said were payouts from
settlements of sexual-harassment and workplace discrimination
cases. The cases were fabricated, using forged documents and
ruses such as having an accomplice pose as a bank officer.  The scheme fell apart over Halloween weekend in 2009 when
Rothstein couldn’t lure enough new investors to pay earlier
ones. After fleeing to Morocco, Rothstein returned to the U.S.  Rothstein was known for what he called his “rock star”
lifestyle. He was married in the Versace mansion in  Miami Beach 
-- Florida’s then-governor Charlie Crist was a guest -- and his
car collection included a Rolls-Royce, a Bugatti, two
Lamborghinis and a Maserati.  In February,  Toronto Dominion Bank (TD)  agreed to settle a
lawsuit with investors who claimed it aided in the Ponzi scheme.
TD Bank will pay $170 million, said Paul Singerman, attorney for
the law firm’s bankruptcy receiver.  The case is U.S. v. Lippman, 12-cr-60078, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at   susannahnesmith@yahoo.com ;
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  