-- Truck Cancellations Hit Two-Year High as Rebound Slows
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-05-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/truck-cancellations-hit-two-year-high-as-rebound-slows.html
North American  heavy-truck orders  are
hitting a speed bump, with cancellations jumping to the fastest
pace in about two years as a stagnating economic recovery
prompts fleet owners to delay or scrap purchases.  The March rate shot up to 9 percent from 6.1 percent a
month earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. North
American freight shipments fell 1.3 percent in March and grew
less than 1 percent in April, according to Cass Information
Systems Inc.’s Freight Shipment Index.  Buyers are being squeezed by slower cargo volumes, tighter
credit and diesel fuel prices exceeding year-earlier levels even
with recent declines. That may erode profits at truck makers
such as  Paccar Inc. (PCAR)  and  Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , and damp
the manufacturing rebound that has bolstered U.S. job growth.  It “creates a situation where these guys say, ‘You know
what? I’m just going to hold on for a little bit and maybe
cancel or move my order out a bit,’” said Eric Starks,
president of Nashville, Indiana-based forecaster FTR Associates.  Preliminary April orders for Class 8 trucks added to
evidence of a surprise slowdown by falling to the lowest since
September 2010, according to FTR data. Continued weakening in
orders may lower industry expectations,  Peter Nesvold , a
Jefferies Group Inc. analyst, wrote in a note to clients May 4.  That’s already happened at FTR. As recently as March, the
firm was predicting Class 8 shipments of 285,000 units, or 12
percent more than a year earlier. It has since cut that estimate
to 275,027 units, an 8 percent increase, as truckers delay
purchases to refresh the oldest fleet since at least 1980.  Earnings Risk  Sales and earnings are at risk for Paccar, whose brands
include Peterbilt and Kenworth, and Navistar as high inventory
and declining orders threaten production rates, according to
Karen Ubelhart, a Bloomberg Industries analyst in  New York .  March’s cancellation rate was the highest since the same
month in 2010, excluding what Ubelhart said was an aberration in
November, probably from manufacturers doing a periodic “backlog
cleaning” to cull orders from buyers that aren’t fully
committed.  Navistar’s first-quarter loss widened more than analysts
had estimated after the Lisle, Illinois-based company said it
was recalling vehicles because of faulty brakes. Profit at
Bellevue, Washington-based Paccar beat estimates as sales
advanced 45 percent.  Paccar Treasurer Robin Easton didn’t respond to a voice-
mail request for comment about the company’s sales outlook, and
Katy Troester, a spokeswoman, didn’t return an e-mail. A
Navistar spokesman, Stephen Schrier, declined to comment.  Tumbling Stocks  The truck makers’ stocks have tumbled from this year’s
highs,  foreshadowing a drop  in the broader market amid concern
that  Europe ’s debt crisis will threaten global demand as
developed nations cut spending to improve their finances.  Paccar has fallen 17 percent since its 2012 peak on March
15, closing yesterday at $39.45. That pared the shares’ gain
this year to 5.3 percent. Navistar closed at $30.81, down 19
percent for the year. That has erased a 2012 gain of as much as
25 percent as of Feb. 6. The Standard and Poor’s 500 Index has
dropped 4.3 percent since its April 2 year-to-date high.  The slowdown in truck orders follows last month’s report
that U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 2.2 percent annual
rate in the first quarter, slower than the prior three months
and missing economists’ estimates.  Daily Tonnage Drops  “Slow and inconsistent economic growth” helped drag the
freight unit of trucker  Arkansas Best Corp. (ABFS)  to a drop of about 9
percent in daily tonnage in the first 3 1/2 weeks of April, said
Amy Mendenhall, director of  investor relations . Rate increases
at the  Fort Smith , Arkansas-based company and “tough
comparisons” from prior periods also damped volumes, she said.  One freight-company investor said the drop in truck
shipments may be due to unusual weather, not a faltering
economy.  Slower March and April deliveries may be the result of
truckers being able to move more goods during a mild winter,
said  Eric Marshall , director of research at Dallas-based Hodges
Capital Management Inc., which oversees about $700 million. The
firm’s holdings include trucker  Saia Inc. (SAIA)  and railroads  Union
Pacific Corp. (UNP)  and  Kansas City Southern. (KSU)   Trucker earnings are increasing even with slow freight
growth, and Marshall said the carriers are able to raise rates
after cutting capacity during the recession.  “You’re seeing decent pricing power,” he said.  Beating Price Increases  Some truckers also may have accelerated vehicle
purchases before manufacturers’ price increases went into effect
this year, damping sales now, said analyst Nesvold, who is based
in New York.  While profits have increased at  Echo Global Logistics Inc. (ECHO) 
as the Chicago-based arranger of freight shipments takes market
share and boosts rates, freight demand shows an economy that’s
“still soft,” Chief Executive Officer Doug Waggoner said.  The economy is “recovering, but a lot less so than you
would hope,” Waggoner said in a telephone interview. “We’re
still stagnating.”  From the vantage point of  YRC Worldwide Inc. (YRCW) , the  Overland
Park , Kansas-based trucker that averted bankruptcy last year
with new credit agreements, the economic indicators are at least
pointing in a positive direction, Chief Financial Officer Jamie Pierson said.  Manufacturing isn’t “setting the world on fire,” Pierson
said in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. “The
good news is, for us, it’s expanding. We just need it to
expand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Detroit at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  