-- Rule Rewrite Will Cut Coal’s Emission Credits, CDM-Watch Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-05-11T08:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/rule-rewrite-will-cut-coal-s-emission-credits-cdm-watch-says.html
A rewrite of rules that determine how
many United Nations emission credits can be claimed by efficient
coal power stations will probably cut the volume of supply, said
CDM-Watch, the Bonn environmental lobby group.  The Clean Development Mechanism executive board, meeting in
Bonn on May 9, requested a panel improve on proposed new rules
governing credits for efficient coal plants, known as
methodology ACM13. Coal stations can win credits if they show
their technology cuts emissions that otherwise would have
occurred.  “We don’t like coal at all in the CDM,” Anja Kollmuss, a
carbon-market officer at the lobby group, said yesterday by
phone. “We definitely would like to see these projects get as
few credits as possible.”  There are already six projects registered under the current
version of the methodology and 38 projects seeking approval,
according to  slides  published this week on the website of the UN
Framework Convention on  Climate Change . Together, those projects
could achieve emission reductions of 37.6 million tons of carbon
dioxide a year, the slides show.  That’s equivalent to 12 percent of last year’s total new
supply of 320 million tons of credits.  The Methodologies Panel proposing the new rules needs to
more clearly state why it’s making each change, Duan Maosheng of
 China , chairman of the executive board, said May 9 at the
meeting, according to a  webcast  of proceedings.  “There are many requirements in the methodology that are
not realistic to achieve,” such as detailed surveys of
technologies used at comparable coal-stations, he said.  The panel would take account of public comments on its
proposal and of those of the board members and seek to table a
new version of the methodology at the next board meeting
starting July 16, Thomas Bernheim, chairman of the panel, told
the meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  