-- Trumka Says JPMorgan Loss Shows Regulation Needed (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-05-11T18:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/trumka-says-jpmorgan-loss-shows-regulation-needed-transcript-.html
AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka  said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital
With  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
$2 billion trading loss shows that left unchecked, Wall Street
will lead the  U.S. economy  “off a cliff, just like they tried
to the last time.”  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with AFL-CIO President Richard
Trumka, who joins us in the studio. Thank you for being here,
Mr. President.  RICHARD TRUMKA: Al, thanks for having me on.  HUNT: Labor is backing Barack Obama, but isn’t this really
more a vote against Republicans? There isn’t that much
enthusiasm for the president, is there?  TRUMKA: No, that’s not true. Look, this is really a
decision about whether we’re going to have stockbrokers and the
financial world continue to run the country or whether we’re
going to have an economy that’s a little more balanced and puts
people back to work, rewards hard work and does things for that.  HUNT: Can you get the same enthusiasm from your workers
that you had in 2008? I mean, because it -  TRUMKA: Yeah. It’s going to take a little more time,
because of some issues in there, but in many sectors of our
membership, they’re already enthusiastic and they’re already
working, and we’re already out, and -  HUNT: You said there are a few issues there. What are the
issues?  TRUMKA: Yeah, well, we disagreed with him on trade. We
disagree with him on things like that. But by and large, when it
comes to fighting for working people, the 99 percent, Obama’s on
our side and  Mitt Romney  is on the other side, so -  HUNT: You have a big test coming up in less than a month in
 Wisconsin . You’re rallying behind Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett,
who beat the candidate who was backed by most of labor in the
primary. But Republicans turned out in the primary in just as
heavy numbers as Democrats. It’s going to be pretty tough to
beat  Scott Walker , isn’t it?  TRUMKA: Well, we’ve only recalled two governors in the
history of the  United States , so we didn’t think it was going to
be an easy battle. However, he spent almost $20 million already,
and he hasn’t been able to move his popularity up. He’s
permanently unpopular because, instead of taking on  job
creation , he actually took on workers, and he misrepresented
what he was doing.  And, by the way, because he did those extreme positions,
Wisconsin is the only state in the union right now that didn’t
create jobs last year. They lost jobs last year. Only state out
there.  HUNT: Do you think you’ll win June 5?  TRUMKA: I do. We’ve tied up the Senate already in the last
election, so I think we’ll take - flip a few more seats there,
and working people will have the Senate on their side once
again. And I think we’ll take - he’ll lose, because he’s - as I
said, he’s - Koch brothers and the big oil interests from out of
state have pumped in a lot of money, over $20 million, and he
hasn’t been able to move his popularity up at all.  HUNT: Money and politics, you’ve always said the other side
is going to have a lot more money. But there are reports that
AFL-CIO is hurting. Your super PAC only raised $2.2 million in
the first month - first three months of this year. Are you going
to have even less than anticipated this year?  TRUMKA: We’ll be OK with money. We’ll have enough money to
get the job done. And our campaign - unlike - unlike a lot of
the super PACs, they spend their money on doing negative ads,
ours is - we’re going to be using it to talk to workers, because
in the past now, we weren’t allowed to use union dues money to
talk to non-union workers. Now we can.  So our PAC we’re going to use to talk to non-union workers,
the 99 percent. We’ll be hitting them. We’re also doing a
different type of a campaign this time. We’re getting our
members to get activated.  In addition to about 400,000 union activists and volunteers
we’ll have in this election cycle, we’re getting our regular
rank-and-file members committed to talking to 20 people, 20 of
their friends, neighbors, and people along the -  HUNT: The Democratic convention is in  Charlotte . You
weren’t happy about that in the beginning. They’re $20 million
short right now.  Jim Rogers  at Duke Power, who’s the chairman of
the convention, says, look, labor is going to help us. They’re
going to pony up money. It’s not a case of whether, it’s a case
of when and how much. Is he right?  TRUMKA: Well, I think labor will do some help. I think it
won’t be as much as it was in the past.  HUNT: You gave them $8.6 million to Denver last time. How
much do you think you’ll give to Charlotte this time?  TRUMKA: I have no idea. It will be less than that.  HUNT: You issued a statement very supportive of the
president’s position on gay marriage.  TRUMKA: Yeah.  HUNT: Some Republicans say, however, it’s going to really,
really turn off some of the labor rank-and-file, that they’re
going to have problems with that issue. Right?  TRUMKA: Well, you know, it could. It could turn off some
labor people. It could turn off some business people. It could
turn off a group of people. And, you know, I hope that we get
past the point where the policies that we adopt in this country,
all we care about is what it does to the polls and not what’s
good for the country.  Look, I support that position. We support it as - as the
 labor movement  because of discrimination. There are 1,128
obligations and benefits you get from being married,
responsibilities and obligations, as well as some benefits. We
think that everybody ought to be treated equally, so it’s
marriage equality is what we’re looking at, and people shouldn’t
be discriminated against.  When I saw people discriminating against  Hillary Clinton 
because she was a woman, I spoke out against that. When I saw
people discriminating against  Barack Obama  because of the color
of his skin, I spoke out against that. And when I see people
trying to deny people benefits and discriminate against them, I
speak out against that, as well.  HUNT: Do you think the White House is right to sort of say
 Joe Biden  forced this, he made a mistake, and he forced it on
us?  TRUMKA: You know, Joe Biden has said a lot of things in the
past, and they’ve been able to overcome things that they’ve
agreed with or not agreed with. I mean, I don’t know if Joe led
that parade or he was behind that parade, but -  HUNT: But you’re glad they got there, however he got there?  TRUMKA: Yeah, I’m glad, however he - if Joe did it, bully
for Joe.  HUNT: Let me ask you about  Jamie Dimon , the king of  Wall
Street , it was revealed first on Bloomberg that JPMorgan has
lost $2 billion in risky trading. What does that do to Mr.
Dimon? And what does it say or what does it do about financial
regulation?  TRUMKA: Well, I think it says that financial regulation is
more needed now than it ever was. And he’s been one of the chief
opponents trying to lobby against it, dilute all the stuff in
the Dodd-Frank bill, to try to dilute it, but everybody - I
think every American knows that we need Wall Street reform. The
lack of Wall Street regulation is what got us to the mess that
we came to, and almost totally disrupted our economy.  So I think him losing money shows, one, he isn’t
infallible, two, that he doesn’t really understand the market
and no one else does, either, because it’s so fickle about
stuff, and, three, that without regulations, they will lead us
off a cliff, just like they tried to the last time, that we must
have Wall Street in check to restore the balance between the
financial economy and the real economy.  HUNT: And hurts his credibility as an opponent of Dodd-
Frank?  TRUMKA: Well, it surely doesn’t help his credibility.  HUNT: One more question. Mitt Romney has been very critical
of labor’s role in the economy, as you know, and he says he
actually should get some credit for the recovery of the
automobile industry.  TRUMKA: That’s - that’s almost laughable. Didn’t he oppose
that? Didn’t he say that they should have let them go bankrupt?
And here’s what he didn’t understand. This shows his lack of
understanding for the economy. If we would have let the  auto
industry  go bankrupt, one out of four manufacturing jobs in this
country would have been gone. And we don’t have enough
manufacturing jobs as it is. We need to increase those number of
jobs.  We’d like to see it become, you know, 14 percent, 15
percent, 16 percent of the GDP. We’d like to see 4 million
manufacturing jobs created over the next couple of years so that
we can put people back to work and be a real power.  Because here’s what happens, Al. When you move the
manufacturing jobs to another country, the research and
development goes with them, so we lose our technological edge.  He doesn’t get it. He doesn’t realize how much innovation
has come out of the auto industry, and he also doesn’t
understand that right now the auto industry is growing, it is
adding jobs, and it is becoming the technological leader once
again of the world. That’s important for this country, because
of quality workers, because of great research and development,
and because of an industry that we essentially - we need, and we
can’t live without.  HUNT: Mr. Trumka, thank you so much for joining us today.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<610708.1204164.2.1.99.7.25>#
 