-- Trump Refusal to Bargain With Union Upheld by U.S. Court
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-05-11T20:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/trump-refusal-to-bargain-with-union-upheld-by-u-s-court.html
Trump Entertainment Resorts Inc. won
reversal of a  National Labor Relations Board  decision requiring
the company to bargain with a union representing card dealers
because of improprieties in the union’s election.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington  today ordered the
board to review Trump’s contention that the union “misled
voters to believe the election was a ‘foregone conclusion,’”
with a mock card-check proceeding. After the union won the Trump
Plaza Hotel election in March 2007, Trump refused to bargain,
complaining to the NLRB about the legitimacy of the process.  U.S. Circuit Judge Karen Lecraft Henderson, writing for the
three-judge panel, also said the board must review how widely
publicized the results of the mock card-check were in light of
legal precedents, as the board had “ignored substantial
circumstantial evidence” in making its decision.  Trump argued that the mock card-check, bolstered by
involvement of public officials, gave the false impression that
the union already represented a majority of the dealers.  “The decision supports our long-held position that our
employees should have a free and independent environment in
which to express their views on union representation,” Robert
Griffin, chief executive officer of  Atlantic City , New Jersey-
based Trump Entertainment, said in an e-mailed statement.  Trump Entertainment is the parent of three casinos in
Atlantic City bearing  Donald Trump ’s name, Trump Taj Mahal
Casino Resort, Trump Marina Hotel Casino and the Trump Plaza
Hotel where the disputed election was held.  The United Auto Workers was seeking to organize gambling-
floor workers at 11 Atlantic City casinos at the time of the
election.  Nancy Cleeland , director of the National Labor Relations
Board, said the agency’s lawyers “are reviewing the opinion and
won’t have any comment today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  