-- Rupiah Rises as Central Bank Drains Surplus Cash; Bonds Decline
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-05-11T09:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/rupiah-rises-most-since-september-on-central-bank-intervention.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah gained after the
central bank outlined steps it would take to drain cash in the
economy to help temper inflation. Bonds declined.  The monetary authority will raise  interest rates  on bills
and term deposits to absorb surplus funds in the financial
system and continue to intervene in the  currency market  to
reduce volatility in the rupiah, it said yesterday, after
keeping borrowing costs unchanged at 5.75 percent. The nation’s
one-year notes dropped after the announcement, sending yields to
the highest level since January. The  overnight  money-market rate
held at 3.75 percent, unchanged since February.  “Bank Indonesia’s statement that it will take steps to
narrow the spread between the  reference rate  and overnight rates
makes the rupiah very attractive to investors,” said Rully Nova, a currency analyst at PT Bank Himpunan Saudara 1906 in
Jakarta.  The rupiah advanced 0.8 percent to 9,190 per dollar as of
4:10 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency strengthened 1.1 percent
this week after closing at 9,276 on May 4, the lowest level
since June 2010.  One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was at 7.5 percent, up one
percentage point from a week ago. Indonesia’s foreign-exchange
 reserves  increased 5 percent to $116.4 billion in April, the
highest since August, official data show.  The rupiah is among the least favored currencies at Societe
Generale SA because of “too much complacency” in the market as
shown by low volatility and pricing for forward contracts, Wee-
Khoon Chong, Hong Kong-based strategist at the bank, wrote in a
note to clients today.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 6.25
percent, the highest level since Dec. 19, according to closing
prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association. It rose 21
basis points for the week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 