-- Russian Banker Says Signing Bonuses Were All Meant for Him
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-05-11T12:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/russian-banker-says-otkritie-signing-bonuses-were-meant-for-him.html
George Urumov, a Russian banker
accused by his former employer of embezzling $23 million in
signing bonuses intended for colleagues, says the money was paid
to him to distribute at his discretion.  Otkritie Financial Capital, a bank part-owned by  Russia ’s
VTB Group, is suing Urumov, his wife, Yulia Balk, and affiliated
companies in London over an alleged $183 million fraud involving
Argentine warrants and bonuses for colleagues, according to a
court filing by Otkritie. Urumov denies the charges and says he
had an October 2010 agreement with Otkritie to pay him $25
million to distribute as he saw fit, according to defense
documents filed with the  High Court  in London on April 26.  The case is based on “a single e-mail” sent by Urumov to
Roman Lokhov, then chief executive officer of Otkritie Capital,
the group’s investment banking unit, agreeing to $5 million for
each banker Urumov recruited to the Moscow-based firm, according
to Urumov’s filing. “Yes, 5 for everyone,” the e-mail said,
according to the filing. The e-mail acknowledged that Urumov
agreed to “administrative arrangements” suggested by Lokhov
for documenting the payments, the filing said.  London  police arrested Urumov in October; no charges have
been filed. According to a civil lawsuit filed in London on Oct.
6, 2011, the bank said Urumov offered to recruit four colleagues
from Knight Capital Group Inc., a  U.S. bank , if each received $5
million in hiring bonuses, or “golden hellos.” Instead, Urumov
made three payments of $500,000, $750,000 and $1 million and
kept the remainder of the $25 million, according to lawsuit.  Payments to Colleagues  Urumov said funds were distributed to co-defendants and
then Otkritie bankers Ruslan Pinaev and Sergey Kondratyuk
because the former had recommended him for a job at Otkritie and
the latter stood to lose out on compensation when the new fixed-
income team started at Otkritie.  The payments to Pinaev and Kondratyuk weren’t bribes and he
was entitled to distribute the money at his discretion, Urumov
said. He paid them about half the signing bonuses, Urumov said.  “There was no promise, request or agreement in respect of
bribes and accordingly no dishonesty,” he said in the filing.  Otkritie said it lost at least $23 million of the $25
million given to Urumov. The bank has “traced and frozen over
$120 million in stolen assets,” and is investigating the
alleged fraud with authorities in the U.K., the U.S.,
 Switzerland , Luxembourg and  Hong Kong , according to Alexey
Karakhan, a spokesman for Otkritie.  ‘Full Recovery’  “We have recovered $34 million, and we are confident that
we will make a full recovery,” Karakhan said in e-mailed
statement today. “Since court proceedings are still under way,
we are not available for any other comments.”  Urumov is also accused of defrauding Otkritie of $160
million in offshore transactions involving Argentine warrants.
In response, Urumov said his only involvement was to reply to a
query from Otkritie after the warrants were purchased.  Urumov’s documents also show he helped set up a Luxembourg-
based hedge fund called Quantum Leap with Pinaev. Kondratyuk
declined to invest, according to the documents.  Balk, Urumov’s wife, acquired a house in the London’s St.
John’s Wood district for 19.8 million pounds ($32 million),
according to the filing. Judge Julian Flaux ruled in March that
Otkritie could seize the property because the company listed as
its owner, Dunant International, didn’t respond to the lawsuit.  Balk believed the home had been bought with “the proceeds
of genuine commercial transactions” and not from the “alleged
Argentinian warrants fraud,” the filing said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  