-- Schaeuble Dares Greece Exit as Contingency Plans Start
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-05-11T16:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/schaeuble-dares-greece-exit-as-contingency-plans-begin.html
As German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  dares Greece to quit the euro, investors and
economists are mapping out what he and fellow policy makers need
to do to save the single currency if his bluff is called.  Emergency lending and bond buying from the  European Central
Bank  coupled with recapitalizations and deposit insurance for
lenders and broader powers for the region’s rescue fund are
among the prescriptions for insulating Spain and other cash-
strained nations from what Citigroup Inc. calls a “Grexit.”  Pressure for contingency plans is mounting as Greece’s
electoral quagmire forces euro-area officials to publicly revive
the once forbidden topic of whether a nation can leave the
single currency. Schaeuble told today’s  Rheinische Post 
newspaper that the euro area could handle a Greek departure as
“the risks of contagion for other countries of the euro zone
have been reduced.”  “Any exit would need to be done as part of a package to
reduce disruptions,” said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., which manages the world’s largest bond fund.
“At this stage, it’s very easy to find things wrong with any
approach that is proposed.”  Lehman Moment  The risk is if Greece leaves and the save-the-euro response
flops the world economy could face a sovereign-version of  Lehman
Brothers  Holdings Inc.’s collapse. That makes Schaeuble’s
confidence sound all too similar to former U.S. Treasury
Secretary Henry M. Paulson’s optimism that the U.S. financial
system could withstand the 2008 loss of Lehman Brothers, only to
witness the deepest global recession since World War II and a 40
percent slide in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in six months.  “If there’s no contagion who cares about Greece, but I
wouldn’t be so sure and if I were Germany I’d not be willing to
risk it either,”  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, said in a May 9 interview. “If a Greek exit had
unforeseen consequences for contagion across countries it would
have been a huge mistake.”  Decades in the making and 13 years in existence, the euro-
area in its present 17-nation form is in jeopardy after Greece’s
voters backed parties allergic to the terms of its bailouts,
depriving it of a working government and risking access to the
aid it needs to pay its bills and meet debt maturities.  Survey Results  A post-election poll of 1,253 Bloomberg subscribers found
57 percent expect at least one country to leave the currency
this year, the most since the survey began in 2010 and up from
11 percent in January 2011.  A splintering of the euro region would leave authorities
rushing to avoid capital flight, a default-inducing surge in
bond yields and bank runs in the remaining fiscally-stretched
nations. While Greece accounts for just about 2 percent of the
region’s gross domestic product, its leaving would set a
precedent in a currency area that was supposed to have no way
out and could prompt investors to raise the threat of default
and departure elsewhere.  “A sudden exit of a country from the euro could well lead
to financial panic and market selloffs, as well as spikes in
volatility and interbank borrowing rates,” said  Alan Brown ,
senior adviser to Schroders Plc in  London , which oversees the
equivalent of about $323 billion.  Rising Odds  Containing those threats would be vital because the cost of
a broader break-up would be “very large” given the region’s
financial, trade and strategic links, said  Willem Buiter , the
London-based chief economist at Citigroup, who has raised his
estimate on the chances of a Greek departure to 75 percent by
the end of 2013 from 50 percent.  Buiter and colleague Ebrahim Rahbari wrote in a report
published yesterday that the ECB would use its “potentially
infinite” resources to restart its sovereign bond-buying
program suspended in April and enact another round of long-term
lending akin to the 1.02 trillion euros of three-year low-cost
loans issued to banks around the turn of year.  Economists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch see a “high”
chance the ECB would also halve its benchmark  interest rate  from
the current 1 percent. The ECB could also follow the example of
the  Swiss National Bank  and announce it is prepared to buy euro-
area government debt without limits at a certain yield, say 6
percent, said Brown of Schroders.  ECB Backstop  “After markets had tested the resolve of the ECB and found
it to be firm, I don’t think the ECB would end up owning all the
sovereign debt,” Brown said. “Suddenly investors would be very
interested in owning Italian debt knowing the ECB stood behind
them.”  ECB officials decided earlier this year to deal with any
Greek exit on an ad-hoc basis rather than devise a templated set
of responses because events would be so unpredictable, said
three euro region central bank officials. That may change as the
crisis worsens, the officials said. The Frankfurt-based central
bank continues to assume Greece will stay within the euro, a
spokesperson said on condition of anonymity, in line with ECB
policy.  European central bankers have “discussed” the possibility
of Greece leaving and how to handle the fallout, Swedish
Riksbank Deputy Governor Per Jansson said in an interview in
Stockholm today.  “I would be very careful in speculating that it would be a
painless process without complications,” Jansson said. “I hope
and believe that they will stay in the  euro zone .”  Central Bank Action  If the Greeks don’t remain, global central banks may also
need to swing into action by opening currency swap lines at
cheap borrowing costs to avoid funding problems, the BofA
Merrill Lynch economists said. The  Bank of Japan  already said
today it would deploy its foreign exchange assets as part of any
international emergency response to market turmoil. Philippine
central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said he’s ready to use the
necessary tools to fight infection.  For governments and regional rescue funds, an “immediate
move” would be to ring-fence banks by guaranteeing deposits and
providing fresh capital, said  Jacob Kirkegaard , research fellow
at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington.  Spain  alone has deposits totaling 1 trillion euros.  One way to ease such efforts would be to hand a banking
license to the 500 billion-euro European Stability Mechanism,
the euro-area’s permanent rescue fund scheduled for life from
July, according to David Mackie, chief European economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. That would allow it to boost the aid it can
provide by borrowing from the ECB, which has resisted such a
move in the past.  Credit Lines  Credit lines could also be issued, perhaps in union with
the  International Monetary Fund , for drawing down by troubled
countries if needed, said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at
Berenberg Bank in London. Governments would have to tell Spain
and Italy they could tap aid without being forced to accept more
budget retrenchment in return.  That “would address the market anxiety that Spain or Italy
could fall into the Greek trap of ever more austerity in
response to ever bigger tax shortfalls caused by recession,”
said Schmieding, who added much would depend on the ability of
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and incoming French President
 Francois Hollande  to find common ground.  Those leaders would also have to forge ahead with efforts
to strengthen political and fiscal ties with the end game being
the issuing of joint debt, said Kirkegaard at Peterson. “There
will have to be significant deepening of integration to show
where the remaining 16 are going,” he said.  Europe  may be more resilient now to a fracturing of the
single currency. The region will soon have 500 billion euros of
added firepower and the IMF is fortifying its own reserves.
Greece has also restructured its debt with private investors and
EU bank holdings of Greek bonds have fallen by more than half
from $68 billion two years ago, according to the Bank for
International Settlements.  “We have had some notice to prepare,” said Mark Cliffe,
global head of financial markets research at ING Bank NV. “But
frankly, most of the mechanisms that transmit the problem beyond
Greece remain in place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  