-- Scottish Renewables Draw Asian Interest Before Independence Vote
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-05-11T14:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/scottish-renewables-draw-asian-interest-before-independence-vote.html
Scotland’s expanding renewable  energy
industry  is attracting attention from Asian investors who are
unfazed about the country’s prospects for gaining independence
from the rest of the U.K.  “We’re currently fielding between five and six visits from
potential inward investors per month from Asia in renewables,”
Anne MacColl, chief executive officer of Scottish Development
International, the trade and investment arm of the Scottish
government, said in an interview. Companies from South Korea,
 Japan  and  China  have expressed interest, she said, without
naming them.  Scotland is seeking to get all its electricity from clean
power by 2020 to spur its economy and curb emissions. The semi-
autonomous region is also planning a referendum on independence
from the U.K. in 2014, which has caused  SSE Plc (SSE) , Britain’s
second-biggest energy supplier,  to say  the plans make it harder
to invest in Scotland until the outcome is clear.  “Evidence tells us that there’s a great deal of confidence
in the way in which the renewable energy sector is developing in
Scotland right now,” MacColl said in London. She cited Gamesa
Corp. Tecnologica SA, Samsung Heavy Industries Co. and
Mitsubishi Power Systems  Europe  Ltd., which have announced
millions of pounds of offshore wind plans in Scotland.  Citigroup Inc. analyst  Peter Atherton  told a parliamentary
committee  April 24  that if Scotland secedes, there is an
“element of risk” about whether a U.K.-wide subsidy program
supporting renewables such as wind farms would continue.
Companies won’t invest without a “100 percent guarantee” that
incentives remain in place for a couple of decades, he said.  Oil Expertise  Scotland expects to announce new investors in its clean
energy industry this year after attracting 750 million pounds
($1.2 billion) to the industry in the year to October 2011,
MacColl said.  A decision by  South Korea ’s Doosan Power Systems Ltd. to
abandon a 170 million-pound plan for wind in Scotland was due to
macroeconomic conditions, MacColl said.  With about 25 percent of Europe’s wind power and North Sea
oil and gas expertise, Scotland has made renewable power the
linchpin of its economic policy under Scottish leader  Alex
Salmond .  The industry supports more than  11,000 Scottish jobs ,
according to Scottish Renewables, a Glasgow-based industry
group. There is a “pipeline” of 17 gigawatts of renewable
projects worth about 46 billion pounds, according to the body.  Scotland needs about 10 to 12 gigawatts of capacity to meet
demand and exports unused power, Tom Lamb, head of energy, trade
and investment at Scottish Development International, said in
the same interview.  “The expectation over the long term is that it will be
exported to the European market as well,” he said. SDI is also
a venture of government agencies Scottish Enterprise and
Highlands & Islands Enterprise.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  