-- SEC’s Schapiro Says Government Shouldn’t Trim Money Funds
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-05-11T20:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/sec-s-schapiro-says-government-shouldn-t-trim-money-fund-sector.html
U.S. regulators who have questioned
whether money-market mutual funds could threaten the nation’s
economy shouldn’t try to shrink the industry, Securities and
Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said.  “It’s not for the government to say,” Schapiro said today
at an Investment Company Institute conference in Washington.
“They should be the size they should be. I want them to be
resilient. I want them to be reflective of the fact that they
are investment products and their value does indeed fluctuate.”  It would be a “fool’s errand to say the right size is X,”
she said.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a panel of
regulators created by the Dodd-Frank Act to monitor threats to
the economy, has said money-market funds remain “susceptible”
to the type of runs that disrupted credit markets in 2008.
Industry groups have expressed concern that other regulators,
particularly the  Federal Reserve , are pressuring the SEC to
contain risk by reining in money-market funds.  Since the industry’s assets peaked at $3.9 trillion in
2009, the total has shrunk by a third to almost $2.6 trillion.
The largest funds include  JPMorgan Prime Money Market Fund (CJPXX) ,
 Fidelity Cash Reserves (FDRXX)  and  Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund. (VMMXX)   Schapiro is working on two proposals to address money
markets. The first would strip funds of their traditional fixed
$1 share price, substituting a floating value. The second would
impose  capital requirements  and restrict redemptions.  ‘Legitimate Concern’  The SEC has a “very legitimate concern about the risks
that are posed by a stable” asset value, she said. “It’s not
hypothetical. We all know what happened in 2008.”  Schapiro doesn’t yet have enough votes on the five-member
commission to release a proposal for public comment. The two
Republican commissioners,  Troy Paredes  and Daniel Gallagher, are
opposed to additional regulation and Democrat  Luis Aguilar  is
uncommitted.  Paredes, Gallagher and Aguilar released a  statement  today
saying they opposed a document published last month by the
International Organization of Securities Commissions which found
that “confidence shocks” in money funds can “quickly have a
broader macroeconomic impact.”  The document “does not reflect the views and input of a
majority of the Commission,” according to the statement
released by the three commissioners. “In fact, a majority of
the Commission expressed its unequivocal view that the
Commission’s representatives should oppose publication of the
Consultation Report and that the Commission’s representatives
should urge IOSCO to withdraw it for further consideration and
revision.”  Metro Ads  Industry leaders, backed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
have said either of the two proposals would destroy the utility
of money funds to investors as well as to corporate and
municipal borrowers. Last month, the Chamber bought all the
advertising space inside  Washington ’s Union Station Metro stop
to publicize its opposition to new rules.  The subway station is adjacent to the SEC’s headquarters.
Schapiro joked that the ads aren’t effective.  “We’re wonkish enough that we’d really prefer a 50-page
comment letter than a sign over the fare card machine at the
Metro,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  