-- Sequoia-Backed SKS Jumps on Microfinance Rule: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-05-11T06:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/sequoia-backed-sks-jumps-on-microfinance-rule-mumbai-mover.html
SKS Microfinance Ltd. (SKSM) ,  India ’s
largest publicly traded lender to the poor, rose the most in 10
months after saying it will cut jobs and the government approved
a bill shifting oversight of the industry to the central bank.  The shares  jumped  as much as 20 percent to 106 rupees, the
biggest intraday gain since July 8, and traded 11 percent higher
at 11:16 a.m. in Mumbai. SKS has gained 5 percent this year, in
line with the benchmark Sensitive Index.  Draft legislation  approved by the cabinet yesterday will
take microfinance companies outside the auspices of state
regulations, averting crackdowns like one in Andhra Pradesh in
2010. SKS said yesterday that it plans to cut its workforce by
35 percent and close branches after losses widened.  “Shares will go up further if the microfinance bill gets
passed in the parliament,” said Santosh Singh, a Mumbai-based
analyst at Espirito Santo Securities who has a  price estimate  of
120 rupees on SKS. “The decision to cut branches and employees
will help the lender to reduce operating cost and return to
profitability at a faster pace.”  The stock, which began trading in August 2010, slid 86
percent last year after the southern state of  Andhra Pradesh 
unveiled tougher collection rules and founder-chairman Vikram Akula quit in November. Andhra Pradesh in October 2010 capped
the interest microfinance companies can charge and barred them
from coercing borrowers to repay debt following suicides by
farmers unable to make payments.  Reserve Fund, Audits  The Micro Finance Institutions (Development and Regulation)
Bill will require all micro lenders to register with the  Reserve
Bank  of India, create a  reserve fund  from profits, and audit
their results yearly.  SKS, which offers loans to the poor starting from $100,
said in an e-mail yesterday that it will fire 1,200 of its 3,400
employees and close 78 branches after losses widened almost
fivefold last quarter. The Hyderabad-based company has about 180
branches across Andhra Pradesh.  Earlier this week, the lender reported a loss of 3.3
billion rupees ($62 million) for the three months ended March
31, swelling from 698 million rupees a year earlier.  Sequoia Capital , which backed  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  and Google
Inc.,  owns  6.84 percent of SKS, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  