-- Serb Prosecutor Orders Investigation of Election Fraud Claim
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-05-11T15:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/serbian-prosecutor-orders-investigation-of-election-fraud-claims.html
Serbia’s Prosecutor’s  Office  has
asked the police to investigate claims by the opposition
Progressive Party of ballot tampering in May 6 parliamentary and
presidential elections.  “We will examine the regularity of the election process,”
Tomo Zoric, a spokesman for the prosecutor’s office in Belgrade,
said by phone today. Progressive Party leader  Tomislav Nikolic ,
has alleged that the ruling  Democratic Party  of  Boris Tadic 
rigged voting lists and stuffed ballot boxes.  Tadic and Nikolic will face off in a second round of voting
in the presidential election on May 20 after neither candidate
got a majority in the first round. Tadic denied the allegations,
the Tanjug news service reported today.  The outcome of the vote may determine whether Serbia keeps
striving for European Union membership or turns east for
political and economic ties under Nikolic’s leadership.  The Progressive Party won 73 seats in the 250-member
parliament compared with 67 seats for Tadic’s Democrats, who may
remain in power after renewing their alliance with the Socialist
Party, which won 44 mandates.  The two parties are looking to create a coalition
government that would keep the Progressives in opposition.  Bigger Margin  Nikolic said his party won the parliamentary vote by a
bigger margin. He first made the claim yesterday, appearing in
front of the parliament with hundreds of ballots that he said
were illegally stuffed at a polling station, whose location he
wouldn’t specify.  The  Election Commission  said it received no official
complaint from Nikolic or his party and warned in an e-mailed
statement that making “such statements mean serious undermining
of the entire election process.” All parties participating had
their activists monitoring the vote at 8,391 polling stations
across the country, it said.  “I will not rest until this is sorted out,” Nikolic said
while campaigning in southern  Serbia , and announced plans to
hold street protests against the alleged fraud, Beta  news agency 
reported.  In the presidental vote, Tadic finished first with 25.32
percent of votes and Nikolic won 25.05 precent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  