-- Shell Says Qatar Sovereign Wealth Fund to Be Shareholder
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-05-11T10:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/shell-says-qatar-sovereign-wealth-fund-to-be-shareholder.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  welcomed Qatar
as an investor as the country’s sovereign wealth fund prepares
to buy a 3 to 5 percent stake in  Europe ’s biggest oil company.  “We are delighted to welcome the Qatar Investment
Authority (QIA) as a long term and major shareholder in Shell,
and particularly given our excellent strategic relationship with
the Qatari state,” said Ross Whittam, a London-based spokesman
for Shell.  The company’s comments followed a report on the purchase
today in the Middle East Economic Survey. Shell said it will
issue a statement when any shareholder’s stake rises above 3
percent. The QIA didn’t immediately return calls or emails sent
outside of office hours.  Shell rose as much as 1.7 percent, the most since April 26,
and traded up 0.5 percent at 2,060 pence as of 11:22 a.m. in
London. The company’s market value is 133 billion pounds ($214
billion), and a 5 percent stake would be worth $10.7 billion.  The QIA is also negotiating to buy a stake in  Italy ’s  Eni
SpA (ENI)  after taking a 3 percent stake in  Total SA (FP) , the report said.
A spokeswoman for Eni declined to comment.  Shell said last month that its Pearl gas-to-liquids venture
in Qatar will reach full capacity by the middle of the year. The
$18.5 billion plant, which converts gas to liquid fuels such as
kerosene and diesel, began operating last year and is the most
expensive energy project in Qatar’s history.  Once fully operational, it will be able to convert 1.6
billion cubic feet a day of gas into 140,000 barrels a day of
liquid fuels such as kerosene and base oil that are normally
produced in a refinery. The facility will also make 120,000
barrels a day of condensate and liquid petroleum gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  