-- Smashing Hilty Glitters in ‘Gents Prefer Blondes’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-05-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/smashing-hilty-glitters-in-gents-prefer-blondes-review.html
The spirited crowd at  City Center  on
Wednesday night couldn’t have been better primed when Megan
Hilty took the stage to sing “Diamonds Are a Girl’s Best
Friend.”  She was poured into a bust-to-mid-thigh sheath of Champagne
sequins that flared at the hem. Her hair was sunshine blonde and
a wide crimson smile promised all kinds of fun.  Hilty, as you surely know, plays a Broadway triple-threat
in NBC’s “Smash.” It’s about two actresses competing to play
 Marilyn Monroe  in a new musical. One of them is Hilty.  And now here she is as Roaring Twenties gold digger non-
pareil Lorelei Lee, a role famously played by MM in the 1953
 Howard Hawks movie .  An exuberant belter who bears no physical resemblance to
either Monroe or the original stage Lorelei, Carol Channing,
Hilty leads what is, hands down and legs up, the best musical
revival of the season.  Unfortunately, the season has just ended and this isn’t a
Broadway revival. It’s the closing production of City Center’s
 Encores!  concert series, and you have only three days left to
see it.  Buttons, Zippers  Engaged to a button magnate (Clarke Thorell), Lorelei sets
sail with her best friend Dorothy (Rachel York) on the Ile de
 France , where they encounter the zipper king (Stephen R.
Buntrock), the tipsy Mrs. Spofford (Deborah Rush) and her son
Henry (Aaron Lazar.)  In Paris, they cavort at the Ritz, in the Bois du Bologne
and at a nightclub before all the squabbles are settled and the
happy company reconvenes at the Central Park Casino.  The captains of this improbably effervescent ship are
director John Rando and choreographer Randy Skinner, both in top
form.  For all the times I’ve complained about choreography that
looks like calisthenics, I’m pleased to report that, among the
astonishing catalogue of dances Skinner has devised for the
ensemble is one that’s actually supposed to look like exercise.  The ship just happens to be stocked bow to stern with
American athletes on their way to the 1924  Olympic Games . They
leap and fly and throw their javelins with grace and humor,
flaunting plenty of beefcake all the while.  There’s so much great dancing in the show (much of it led
by a tap wizardress named Megan Sikora) it almost overshadows a
cherishable score by Jule Styne and Leo Robin. In addition to
“Diamonds,” it includes “Bye, Bye Baby,” “It’s Delightful
Down in  Chile ” and “I Love What I’m Doing (When I’m Doing It
For Love)” and the title song.  “Gents” may be a dopey Golden Age musical whose time has
long passed, but what a happy fix it provides.  Through May 13 at 131 W. 55th St. Information: 1-212-581-
1212;  http://www.nycitycenter.org . Rating: ***1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  movies  and  music .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 