-- Solar Trust of America Wins Court Approval to Auction Assets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-05-11T21:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/solar-trust-of-america-wins-court-approval-to-auction-assets.html
Solar Trust of America LLC, which is
developing what would be the world’s largest solar power plant,
won court approval to sell virtually all its assets at a June 21
auction.  “I find the bid procedures to be fair and reasonable,”
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross said at a hearing today in
Wilmington, Delaware, as he approved the guidelines that will
govern the proposed sale.  “A sale of the debtor’s assets must occur quickly to
maximize the value,” Justin Rucki, a lawyer for the company
told Gross.  Solar Trust has yet to select a so-called stalking-horse or
lead bidder to set a minimum for other bidders to top. Offers
for the assets must be submitted by June 18. The company will
seek court approval to sell the assets to the auction winner at
a hearing scheduled for June 27.  The Oakland, California-based company is a joint venture
between  Solar Millennium AG (S2M) , which is undergoing its own
insolvency proceedings in  Germany , and Ferrostaal AG, according
to court documents. The company’s prize asset is a solar
project, commonly referred to as the Blythe Project, located in
Riverside County, California, that upon completion would be
capable of generating 1,000-megawatts.  Blythe, Palen Projects  The Blythe Project would be comprised of four independent
250-megawatt  power plants , which would be able to deliver enough
electricity to power more than 300,000 homes, court papers show.  The company is also developing two other solar power
facilities each with a 500-megawatt generating capacity,
according to court filings. The so-called Palen Project is
located near Desert Center, California, and the second will be
built in Amargosa Valley,  Nevada .  Solar Trust was dependent on funding from its parent, Solar
Millennium, because none of the projects produced any revenue
and once Solar Millennium began insolvency proceedings and cut
off financing, the company was forced to seek  bankruptcy
protection , Chief Operating Officer Edward Kleinschmidt said in
court papers.  The company listed as much as $10 million in assets and as
much as $100 million in debt in its April 2 Chapter 11
bankruptcy filing. Affiliate Solar Millennium Inc. listed as
much as $100 million in assets and as much as $500 million in
debt.  The case is In re Solar Trust of America LLC, 12-11136,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  