-- Some Congress Democrats Split With Obama on Gay Marriage
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-05-11T18:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/some-congress-democrats-split-with-obama-on-gay-marriage.html
Congressional Democrats who don’t
agree with President  Barack Obama ’s endorsement of same-sex
marriage now find they’re in an awkward spot.  Senators  Claire McCaskill  of  Missouri ,  Joe Manchin  of West
Virginia and Jon Tester of Montana are among Democrats facing
questions about their stand on the issue and whether they are
swayed by the president’s support, which he announced May 9.
McCaskill, Manchin and Tester are seeking re-election this year
in Republican-leaning states. None back gay marriage.  “If they’re smart, they won’t change what they’ve been
saying,” said  John Pitney , a political scientist at  Claremont
McKenna College  in Claremont,  California .  Republicans have called attention to Obama’s announcement,
which they say could pull votes away from Democratic candidates
in Republican-leaning states.  “The president was looking at his own political
prospects,” Senator  John Thune  of  South Dakota , a member of the
chamber’s Republican leadership, said in an interview. “But if
you’re somebody from a Midwestern state, a fairly conservative
state, it’s probably not going to be helpful.”  While Obama’s endorsement was praised by gay rights
advocacy groups and some Democrats in Congress, lawmakers from
the party’s more moderate wing have mostly stayed silent or
reiterated their opposition to gay marriage.  Manchin, a former West Virginia governor running for Senate
re-election in a state Obama lost by 13 percentage points in
2008, remains opposed to same-sex marriage, a spokeswoman said.  ‘Position Hasn’t Changed’  “His position hasn’t changed; he believes marriage is
between one man and one woman,” Marni Goldberg said in an e-
mail.  Tester “supports civil unions for committed same-sex
couples, but in  Montana , marriage is between one man and one
woman,” spokeswoman Andrea Helling said yesterday.  Republican presidential candidate  John McCain  carried
Montana by three percentage points in 2008.  McCaskill spokesman John LaBombard told the Springfield,
Missouri, News-Leader after Obama’s announcement that while his
boss opposes discrimination against homosexuals, she thinks
states should “take the lead in determining marriage
equality.”  Missouri, which McCain won by a 3,600-vote margin in 2008,
and Montana have state constitutional provisions defining
marriage as being between a man and a woman.  ‘Brick by Brick’  A potential Republican opponent for McCaskill, U.S.
Representative Todd Akin, said yesterday in a statement that
Obama’s support for  same-sex marriages  showed the president’s
“unquenchable desire to tear down the traditional family unit
brick by brick,” and reiterated his opposition to gay marriage.  The chairman of the House Democrats’ campaign committee
said lawmakers and candidates who oppose gay marriage shouldn’t
hide their position from voters.  “If you agree with the president, state your agreement; if
you disagree with the president, state your disagreement,”  New
York  Representative Steve  Israel  told reporters yesterday at a
Christian Science Monitor breakfast. “Be clear, let people know
and move on.”  Obama’s support for gay marriage isn’t “that relevant” to
individual House races, Israel said, adding that “each
candidate has to run their own race.”  Defense of Marriage  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  was noncommittal when
asked if he would seek a vote on legislation to partly repeal
the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act, which prohibits the federal
government from recognizing same-sex marriages. The Nevada
Democrat, who has devoted floor time to Obama’s re-election
campaign themes including a freeze on student loan interest
rates and a minimum tax on millionaires, said he would “look
at” the measure.  Following Obama’s announcement that he supports gay
marriage, Reid said in a statement that while his “personal
belief is that marriage is between a man and a woman,” the
matter should be left to the states, which he described as “the
proper place for this issue to be decided.”  The Senate Judiciary Committee in November approved, on a
10-8 party-line vote, legislation that would extend federal
benefits to legally married same-sex couples. Eight senators
seeking re-election this year are among the measure’s 31
Democratic co-sponsors.  Asked whether advancing such a measure before the election
might cause political problems for some Democrats running for
re-election, the Senate’s second-ranking Democrat,  Dick Durbin 
of  Illinois , said, “Yes, and I’m not assuming that every Senate
Democrat agrees with the president.”  ‘Own Positions’  “They’re all going to take their own positions on this,”
said Durbin, who supports gay marriage.  Hours after Obama’s announcement, Rhode Island Senator  Jack Reed , one of the chamber’s 15 Catholic Democrats, announced on
Twitter that he supported gay marriage and that he would co-
sponsor the partial-repeal measure.  Obama’s move drew criticism from religious groups,
including the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.  Gay marriage advocates said they hope Obama’s support will
prompt more members of Congress to publicly back gay marriage,
said Michael Cole-Schwartz, communications director for the
Human Rights Campaign, a Washington organization that supports
gay rights.  “The president speaking out very publicly can serve as a
great example for members to be able to articulate their own
journeys on this issue,” Cole-Schwartz said.  Gallup Poll  A Gallup  poll  conducted May 3-6 showed that 50 percent of
Americans think same-sex marriage should be legal, while 48
percent are opposed. The same survey in 2009 found that 57
percent of Americans opposed same-sex marriage and 40 percent
supported it. The current poll’s margin of error is plus or
minus three percentage points.  Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, the chamber’s third-
ranking Democrat, said it was too soon to say how a candidate’s
stance on gay marriage might affect his or her chances in
November’s election.  “This is an issue that has been evolving and evolving
rather quickly,” Schumer said, adding that anyone who would
predict the political effect was “a lot smarter” than he.  Democratic candidates “are not going to get through a
whole campaign, particularly now” that Obama has made his
position known, “without being asked” about gay marriage, said
Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican.  ‘One Big Wedge’  Still, Cole said, social issues such as gay marriage and
abortion aren’t wedge issues in this election because “there is
one big wedge, it’s called the economy, and the second big wedge
is called the debt.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said his
party’s disagreement with Obama over gay marriage won’t become a
central campaign theme.  “The president can talk about it all he wants; I am going
to stay focused on what the American people want us to stay
focused on, and that’s jobs,” he told reporters yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
jschneider50bloomberg.net 