-- Sony, Panasonic Fall to 30-Year Lows as TV Losses Mount
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-05-11T23:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/sony-falls-to-31-year-low-as-forecast-misses-estimates.html
Sony Corp. and  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,
 Japan ’s biggest consumer-electronics makers, fell to their
lowest levels in three decades yesterday after forecasting
earnings that missed estimates because of a failure to end
losses from TVs.  Sony, the world’s No. 3 TV maker, slid to the lowest since
August 1980. The maker of Walkman music players and Bravia TVs
closed with a market value of $17.5 billion, compared with more
than $100 billion in 2000. Panasonic, the world’s largest maker
of plasma TVs, dropped to the lowest since January 1978,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The declines came after the companies said losses from
their TV businesses will continue, and as investors remained
skeptical about predictions for returning to profit this year.
Without hit products like the compact-disc player of the 1980s,
 Sony (6758)  and Panasonic have lost ground to  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
and LG Electronics Inc. in TVs and to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPod.  “The Japanese companies need to develop unique and No. 1
products to propel growth in the future,” said  Yuuki Sakurai ,
chief executive officer at Tokyo-based Fukoku Capital Management
Inc., which manages $7.3 billion of assets. “At this point, I
don’t see any company in Japan that can do that.”  Panasonic, eliminating about 17,000 jobs after posting a
record 772 billion-yen ($9.7 billion) loss last year, said
yesterday it expects  net income  will probably be 50 billion yen
in the 12 months ending March 31. The projection missed the 106
billion-yen  average  of 18 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  TV ‘Regret’  TV sales this year will drop 11 percent to 15.5 million
units, while losses will continue for a fifth consecutive year,
Panasonic said yesterday.  The company’s earnings targets “could be difficult to
achieve, given restructuring costs and sluggish TV demand,”
Yasuo Nakane, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said
before the announcement. “Targets should be realistic.”  Osaka-based Panasonic made “excessive” investments in
plasma and liquid-crystal-display TVs, President Fumio Ohtsubo
told reporters yesterday. “We regret the decision we made.”  Sony said May 10 that TV sales will decline 11 percent to
17.5 million units and will lead to an 80 billion yen loss in
the year that began last month. After four consecutive years of
losses, the company said it expects to post a net income of 30
billion yen in the year to March 31, lagging behind analyst
estimates for a 61.4 billion-yen profit.  Samsung, Apple  Tokyo-based Sony is eliminating 10,000 jobs, or about 6
percent of its workforce, as part of its restructuring.  Sony fell 6.4 percent to 1,135 yen. The stock has  declined 
18 percent this year, extending the 53 percent drop last year.
Panasonic dropped 1.6 percent to 570 yen, giving the company a
market valuation of $17.5 billion, compared with Sony’s $14.3
billion.  By comparison, Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, the
world’s biggest maker of phones, chips and TVs, has gained 23
percent this year and is valued at $167 billion. Cupertino,
California-based Apple, with a market capitalization of $530
billion, has jumped 40 percent in  New York  trading this year.  ‘Investors Won’t Buy’  “Investors won’t buy stocks of companies that they think
has no future,” said  Yoshihiro Okumura , who helps manage the
equivalent of $365 million at Chiba-Gin Asset Management Co. in
 Tokyo . “Sony and Panasonic have not been able to show how their
TV businesses will recover.”  Global TV shipments last year fell for the first time in
six years because of excessive inventory in the U.S. and  Europe ,
and the end of Japanese government subsidies for purchases,
according to DisplaySearch, part of NPD Group. Shipments fell
0.3 percent to 247.7 million units, the researcher said.  Both Panasonic, the maker of Lumix cameras, and Sony, whose
businesses include films, insurance, music and game consoles,
have changed their leadership.  Panasonic is promoting Kazuhiro Tsuga, its 55-year-old
chief of audiovisual products, to replace Ohtsubo, 66.  Kazuo Hirai, 51, took over as Sony’s president and chief
executive officer last month, replacing  Howard Stringer . Sony
also is introducing new game consoles, phones and tablets.  “It’s just hard for any Japanese consumer electronics
maker to be profitable just by restructuring,” Sakurai said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  