-- Sotheby’s Says Auction Sales Probably Fell in First Half
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-05-11T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/sotheby-s-says-auction-sales-likely-fell-in-first-half.html
Sotheby’s (BID)  auction sales in the first
half of 2012 are likely to drop from a year earlier amid a
decline in single-owner art collections consigned to the New
York auctioneer, a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission said.  “Single-owner sales are hard to predict,” Chief Financial
Officer William Sheridan said in an interview. “The first half
of 2011 was particularly strong.”  Yesterday, Sotheby’s reported a first-quarter loss as sales
dropped 29 percent from a year earlier.  Sotheby’s lost $10.7 million, or 16 cents a share, compared
with a profit of $2.4 million, or 3 cents a share, a year
earlier, it said in a statement. Revenue fell 12 percent to $105
million.  The loss per share was in line with estimates of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer William Ruprecht said in a
conference call and statement that first-quarter results would
have been comparable to a year earlier, had it not been for an
“exceptional” single-owner $132 million London sale in
February 2011.  ‘No Slowdown’  Ruprecht said the first-quarter results don’t reflect a
slowdown in demand for art.  Last week, Sotheby’s sold a version of Edvard Munch’s “The
Scream” for $119.9 million, the highest price ever paid for an
artwork at auction. Its contemporary art sale last night totaled
$266.6 million.  “The business feels good,” Sheridan said in the
interview. “The last two weeks have been terrific.”  The auctioneer typically posts a small loss or profit in
the first and third quarters. Its biggest auctions are held in
the second and fourth quarters.  At year-end, Sotheby’s said it accounted for 51 percent of
the auction sales of fine art and decorative art, jewelry and
collectibles worldwide between the two major auction houses, up
from 49 percent in 2010. Its annual sales were $5 billion, up 16
percent. Sotheby's chief competitor is Christie's.  Today’s Muse highlights include  New York Weekend  and  Lewis
Lapham  on books.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 