-- South Africa’s Economy to Grow About 3%, Gordhan Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-05-11T12:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/south-africa-s-economy-to-grow-about-3-gordhan-says.html
South Africa’s economy will probably
expand about 3 percent this year, even after a slump in
 manufacturing  output cast doubt on the outlook for growth, South
Africa’s Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  Factory production unexpectedly fell 2.7 percent in March
from a year earlier, compared with 4 percent growth a month
earlier, the statistics agency said yesterday, prompting
economists to warn about prospects for 2012.  “These are not happy numbers, but we hope they are
temporary,” Gordhan said in an interview today at the  World
Economic Forum  on Africa in  Addis Ababa , Ethiopia’s capital.
“Let us look at the more long-term trend. It seems to be a more
positive one at this point in time.”  The drop in production may limit the recovery of South
Africa’s economy from recession in 2009 and ease pressure on the
central bank to raise its benchmark rate this year.  Europe  will
probably enter another recession as governments cut spending to
help ease a debt crisis that began with  Greece  more than two
years ago. Europe buys about a third of South Africa’s
manufactured goods.  Gross domestic product will grow “around 3 percent, which
is much better than most parts of the world,” Gordhan said.  Economic growth accelerated to 3.2 percent in the fourth
quarter from 1.7 percent three months earlier, according to the
statistics agency. Gordhan in February cut the government’s
growth forecast for 2012 to 2.7 percent from 3.4 percent.  Support Package  Factory output should recover and the government plans to
announce a 5.4 billion-rand ($670 million) support package to
boost manufacturers, Trade and Industry Minister  Rob Davies  said
in separate interview at the World Economic Forum.  “The analysis that people are saying that manufacturing
exports are being hit by the euro crisis is probably correct,”
he said. “Our trade with most of Europe was flat last year and,
in fact, remains below 2008 levels.”  Economists, including  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) ’s Nicky Weimar,
said yesterday’s manufacturing data may reduce economic growth
in the first quarter.  Daniel Mminele , the deputy governor of
South Africa’s central bank, said yesterday domestic growth will
probably remain subdued.  The rand fell to the lowest in four months against the
dollar and 1 percent to 8.0956 by 2:10 p.m. Johannesburg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  