-- Spain Will Miss Budget-Deficit Goals Through 2013, EU Forecasts
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-11T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/spain-will-miss-budget-deficit-goals-through-2013-eu-forecasts.html
Spain  will miss its budget-deficit
target this year and rack up a shortfall that is more than
double its goal in 2013 as unemployment exceeds 25 percent, the
European Commission said.  Spain’s overall budget deficit will amount to 6.4 percent
of gross domestic product this year and 6.3 percent in 2013,
missing the targets of 5.3 percent and 3 percent respectively,
the Commission said in its spring forecasts today in Brussels.
It sees the economy contracting 0.3 percent in 2013, a more
pessimistic view than the government’s, pushing unemployment to
25.1 percent.  Spain is implementing the deepest austerity measures in at
least three decades including tax increases and savings in
health and education. Concerns over Spain’s deficit and the
government’s ability to overhaul lenders without overburdening
public finances have helped reignite the sovereign debt crisis,
sending Spanish 10-year borrowing costs to more than 6 percent.  The Commission said that slippage would come from regional
governments, which control health and education and hire about
half of the nation’s public workers. The forecasts are based on
a “no-policy-change assumption,” and not all consolidation
measures for the regions have been specified yet, it said in the
report. The social security system, which makes up part of the
overall budget, may post a deficit amid rising unemployment, it
said.  Spain’s budget deficit was 8.5 percent of GDP last year,
more than the 6 percent target, mainly due to overspending by
the regional governments. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who came
to power in December, said this week the government is committed
to its targets and the government should focus on meeting the
goal rather than getting a looser one.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  