-- Swedish Krona Drops to Five-Month Low on Crisis: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-05-11T09:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/swedish-krona-drops-to-five-month-low-on-crisis-stockholm-mover.html
Sweden’s krona weakened to a five-
month low against the euro on concern exports from the largest
Nordic economy will struggle to find demand as the euro region’s
debt crisis deepens.  The krona traded below 9 per euro today for the first time
since Dec. 27. It was down 0.22 percent at 9.0020 against the
single currency as of 11:29 a.m. in  Stockholm .  Sweden’s fate is intertwined with that of the euro region
because of its export reliance,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ’s alpha strategy
team wrote in a note to clients today. Half the country’s
economic output comes from exports, 70 percent of which are sent
to  Europe . The continent’s debt crisis showed signs of
deteriorating this week after May 6 elections in  Greece  and
 France  gave more power to candidates critical of austerity.  “Sweden is still a very high beta country, hence our gross
domestic product is highly correlated to Europe,” Nordea said.  The bank’s alpha team said it has recommended selling the
krona against the euro, the Norwegian kroner and the dollar,
arguing the trades are now “deep in the money,” according to a
note to clients today.  The 17-member euro area will contract 0.3 percent this
year, the European Commission said in its latest set of
forecasts published today. Swedish economic output will expand
0.3 percent, lagging behind a 0.8 percent expansion in
neighboring  Finland  and 1.1 percent growth in  Denmark , according
to the commission.  Rate Cuts  The Swedish central bank has cut  interest rates  twice since
December, bringing its benchmark repo rate to 1.5 percent. While
policy makers have signaled borrowing costs will stay at that
level for a year before tightening resumes, a deepening euro
crisis may prompt more rate cuts, according to Swedbank AB.  “The growing uncertainty over Greece continues to add
pressure to an already weak Europe,” Anders Eklof, a Stockholm-
based currency strategist at Swedbank, said by phone today.
“Even though there is less risk in the financial system after
the” European Central Bank’s three-year lending facility helped
prop up bonds, “the market will likely price in continued risk
for the Swedish economy and make one more cut from the Riksbank
possible,” he said.  Swedbank predicts that the krona will weaken further to 9.1
against the euro “in the near future,” he said. “But we stick
to our view of 8.75 in three months and that the Riksbank will
remain unchanged.”  Riksbank Deputy Governor Lars E.O. Svensson said May 7 a
stronger krona would be “problematic” for the Swedish economy
and hurt exporters.  “If one could wish for something it would be that the
krona weakened,” he said then.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  