-- U.K. Says 19 Counties Exit Drought as London Water Limits Stay
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-05-11T12:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/u-k-says-19-counties-exit-drought-as-london-water-limits-stay.html
The U.K. said that record April
rainfall helped take 19 counties out of drought, while water
restrictions remain in  London , east and southeast England.  Drought status was lifted from Yorkshire to Cornwall,
meaning those counties are unlikely to face water restrictions
this year, the Department for Environment, Food and Rural
Affairs said today in an e-mailed  statement . Limits on water use
remain for customers of seven water companies, including Kemble
Water Holdings Ltd.’s Thames Water unit, the U.K.’s largest,
serving 8.8 million homes and businesses in London, it said.  Swathes of the U.K. suffered a 22-month drought, leading to
so-called “hose-pipe bans” restricting the use of garden hoses
to water yards, wash cars, fill pools, ponds and fountains, and
clean windows. The wettest April in more than 100 years of
records ended the drought in some areas, while failing to
replenish water tables in eastern  England .  “We cannot forget that Anglia, London and the South East
are still in drought and still experiencing water
restrictions,” Environment Secretary Caroline Spelman said in
the statement. “Even the record rainfall we had in April and
the prediction of more wet weather in May won’t make up for the
water shortages in these areas caused by two extremely dry
winters.”  Anglian Water, South East Water, Southern Water, Sutton and
East Surrey Water, Veolia Water Southeast and Veolia Water
Central are the other suppliers with bans that began on April 5.  The 19 areas that the department said have been cleared of
drought status are: South Yorkshire, East Yorkshire, Cornwall,
Devon, Dorset, Somerset, Bristol, parts of Gloucestershire,
parts of Hampshire, most of Wiltshire, Nottinghamshire,
Leicestershire, Derbyshire, Staffordshire, the West Midlands,
Warwickshire, Shropshire, Worcestershire and Herefordshire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  