-- U.K. Charges LulzSec Member Over Pentagon Computer Attack
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-05-11T23:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/u-k-charges-lulzsec-member-over-pentagon-computer-attack.html
Ryan Cleary, a 20-year-old member of
the LulzSec “hacktivist” group, installed or altered files on
Pentagon computers that were controlled by the U.S. Air Force,
British prosecutors said in a court document.  Cleary, from Wickford,  England , appeared at a court hearing
yesterday in London with three co-defendants who were arrested
as part of a joint U.K. and U.S. investigation into computer-
hacking attacks.  Cleary,  Jake Davis , Ryan Ackroyd and a 17-year-old who
can’t be identified were charged with conspiring with others in
LulzSec and the hacking collectives Internet Feds and Anonymous
last year to access computers, according to an updated
indictment filed by British prosecutors. They are accused of
accessing computers operated by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century
Fox,  Sony Corp. (6758) , the U.K.’s National Health Service, the  Arizona 
State Police, and technology-security company HBGary Inc.  The hackers modified some of the computers, including
adjusting security settings and access to confidential data, and
sometimes redirected visitors to their own sites, prosecutors
said in the filing. They also posted confidential data to public
websites including LulzSec.com and Pirate Bay, prosecutors said.  They are scheduled to enter pleas in the case on June 25,
Judge Alistair McCreath said at yesterday’s hearing.  Rivers Johnson, a spokesman for U.S. Cyber Command,
declined to comment on the case.  Cleary, who has been in custody since March 6 when he was
arrested for breaching his bail conditions, was charged with
accessing the Pentagon computers between May 1 and June 22 of
last year. He also faces charges of constructing a network of
computers, known as a botnet, which could perform distributed
denial of service attacks and of directing it to attack websites
operated by web-hosting provider Dreamhost.  Sabu Conversations  Cleary was first arrested in June by the Metropolitan
Police and arrested a second time for violating his bail terms
by talking to a hacker known as Sabu four times on an Internet
chat room using a mobile phone.  Sabu is Hector Xavier Monsegur, a member of Anonymous,
Internet Feds and LulzSec, who is an informant for the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation . Monsegur, who pleaded guilty to U.S.
charges in August, told Cleary that he hadn’t been arrested and
wasn’t under investigation.  Davis, a 19-year-old from the Shetland Islands in  Scotland 
who used the name Topiary online and acted as LulzSec’s
spokesman, was arrested in July. Ackroyd, 25, and the 17-year-
old suspect were arrested and charged in March.  According to the new indictment, the four men also targeted
denial of service attacks against: Westboro Baptist Church,
which has staged anti-homosexual demonstrations at military
funerals; the online role-playing game Eve Online; the U.S.
Central Intelligence Agency; and Britain’s Serious Organised
Crime Agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  