-- U.K. Economic Slump May Be Deeper as Construction Revised
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-11T10:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/u-k-economic-slump-may-be-deeper-as-construction-revised-1-.html
Britain’s economy  may have shrunk
more than previously estimated in the first quarter after the
statistics office reported a deeper slump in construction.  Building output plunged 4.8 percent in the three months
through March, the  Office for National Statistics  said today.
That compares with a 3 percent drop in the first estimate of
gross domestic product on April 25, which showed the economy
contracted 0.2 percent. The revision on its own would shave 0.1
percentage point off GDP, the statistics office said.  The building data may add to concerns about the economy as
the  Bank of England  grapples with a double-dip recession and
inflation remains above its target. Policy makers hadn’t seen
the revision before they decided yesterday to halt their
 quantitative-easing program  at 325 billion pounds ($524
billion), according to statistics office officials.  “Today’s figures will intensify the dilemma facing the
Monetary Policy Committee,” said Samuel Tombs, an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . Policy makers have to balance
“sticky inflation and very weak economic activity,” he said.  The pound remained weaker against the dollar and the euro
after the data was published. It traded at $1.6103 as of 11:30
a.m., down 0.3 percent on the day.  Revision Impact  The quarterly drop in construction, which accounts for 8
percent of GDP, was the biggest in three years. From a year
earlier, building output was down 3.7 percent.  Based on the initial estimate, construction reduced first-
quarter GDP by about 0.2 percentage point. That’s now been
revised to “just over” 0.3 point, officials said, indicating
the economy would have been flat without the construction
impact.  The European Commission said today that recent business
surveys had indicated that the GDP estimate may get revised up.
 Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight in London,
said today’s data are “at odds” with surveys and “dilutes
hopes that the first quarter GDP contraction will eventually be
revised away.”  Still,  Alan Clarke  at  Scotia Capital  said it’s
“reasonable” to think that first-quarter services will be
revised up, which would counter the construction revision and
put GDP “back where we started.” The second estimate of the
first-quarter GDP will be published on May 24.  Inflation Concerns  The Bank of England announced yesterday that it will leave
its bond-purchase target unchanged after seven months of pumping
money into the economy. It also kept its  benchmark interest rate 
at a record-low 0.5 percent.  Some policy makers have signaled increased concerns that
inflation won’t slow as much this year as previously projected.  Data today showed  factory-output prices  increased 0.7
percent in April from March, exceeding the 0.4 percent median
forecast of 19 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. From a
year earlier, prices were up 3.3 percent, also faster than
forecast. Input prices fell 1.5 percent from March and were up
1.2 percent from a year earlier.  In the 10 categories of producer price, nine rose and one
fell in April from the previous month, today’s report showed.
The biggest gain was by computer, electrical and optical
equipment, which rose 2.4 percent, followed by tobacco and
alcohol, up 2.2 percent.  Core producer prices, which exclude costs of food, alcohol,
tobacco and petroleum, increased 0.6 percent on the month in
April and 2.3 percent from a year earlier.  While inflation concerns are elevated, economists at
Deutsche Bank AG and BNP Paribas SA say Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King  may leave the door open to further stimulus next
week.  The central bank’s Inflation Report on May 16 will probably
lower U.K. growth forecasts, they said, giving policy makers
leeway to restart QE. King will hold a press conference in
London immediately after the report is published.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  