-- U.K. Stocks Rise on U.S. Consumer Confidence; M&S Gains
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-05-11T16:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/u-k-stocks-fall-heading-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-2012.html
U.K. stocks rose for a second day,
erasing an earlier selloff, after a measure of U.S. consumer
confidence unexpectedly rose, outweighing declines by banks and
mining companies.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  rallied 3.5 percent after Bank of
America Corp. recommended the U.K. retailer. Hammerson Plc led a
rally in real estate companies.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  dropped more than 2
percent after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  announced a $2 billion
trading loss.  The benchmark FTSE 100 Index climbed 0.6 percent to
5,575.52 at the close in London, trimming its weekly drop to 1.4
percent. The FTSE All-Share Index and Ireland’s ISEQ Index both
increased 0.6 percent today.  “Morning losses turned into afternoon gains as buyers were
once again attracted by equities that have been badly beaten up
in recent days,” said  Angus Campbell , head of market analysis
at Capital Spreads. “Initial losses were reversed following
some decent  consumer confidence  numbers.”  The FTSE 100’s weekly decline has pared its gain for the
year to 0.1 percent as investors waited to see whether  Greece 
can form a new government and as Spanish credit risk surged. The
U.K. equity gauge has lost 6.5 percent from its 2012 high on
March 16.  U.K. stocks pared a slide of as much as 0.8 percent earlier
today as Antonis Samaras, the leader of Greece’s biggest
political party, said that his sole condition for supporting a
coalition government is that it guarantees the country’s
membership of the euro area.  U.S. Consumer Confidence  In the U.S., a gauge of consumer confidence rose in May to
the highest level in four years. The Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment climbed to
77.8 from 76.4 in April. The average estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News had called for a decline to 76.  Marks & Spencer rallied 3.5 percent to 360 pence as Bank of
America raised its recommendation for Britain’s largest clothing
retailer to buy from neutral, saying they remain “bullish” on
general retail.  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  surged 5 percent to 80.8 pence as
Bank of America also upgraded the department-store group’s
shares to buy.  Hammerson led a rally in property companies, climbing 3.2
percent to 429.8 pence. British Land Co. gained 2.9 percent to
506 pence and Land Securities Group Plc jumped 2.3 percent to
751 pence.  Catlin Group Ltd. also advanced, rising 0.7 percent to
421.5 pence after reporting a 12 percent increase in sales from
a year earlier to $1.6 billion. Analysts at Keefe, Bruyette &
Woods and Peel Hunt both upgraded the Lloyd’s of London insurer
to buy.  Barclays Shares Fall  Elsewhere, Barclays dropped 2.9 percent to 202.8 pence,
following a gauge of European lenders lower as JPMorgan Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  announced a $2 billion trading
loss because of an “egregious” failure by a unit managing
risks. That jeopardized banks’ efforts to relax U.S.
restrictions on bets with their own money.  The firm’s chief investment office, run by Ina Drew, 55,
took flawed positions on synthetic credit securities that may
cost an additional $1 billion this quarter or next, Dimon told
analysts yesterday. The losses mounted as JPMorgan tried to
mitigate transactions designed to hedge credit exposure.  The bank has also held discussions with the U.K.’s
financial regulator over the role of its London employees in the
loss, according to two people familiar with the talks.  Vedanta, Kazakhmys Slide  Mining shares also declined with copper amid concern that
 China’s economy  may slow further.  Vedanta lost 2.6 percent to 1,089 pence, Kazakhmys Plc
retreated 1.6 percent to 764 pence and Xstrata dropped 3.3
percent to 1,052 pence.  Copper fell in London after a report showed  China’s
industrial production  rose in April at the slowest year-on-year
pace since May 2009.  Xstrata’s shares fell even after the Financial Times
reported that Qatar Holding, a division of the Qatar Investment
Authority, the country’s sovereign-wealth fund, may try to buy a
stake of more than 10 percent as part of a plan to invest in
Glencore International Plc. The newspaper cited unidentified
people familiar with the matter.  The volume of shares changing hands on the FTSE 100 was 16
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  