-- Bahrain Arms Sales Resume as U.S. Cites Security Interest
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-05-11T21:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/u-s-to-resume-weapons-sales-to-bahrain-citing-reforms.html
The U.S. will go ahead with the sale
of some weapons to Bahrain, an “important security partner and
ally in a region facing enormous challenges,” according to
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland .  The U.S. is proceeding with the certain weapons deliveries
that had been frozen in the wake of the kingdom’s crackdown on
protests. The equipment includes  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ’s AMRAAM air-to-
air missiles and ammunition, according to a person briefed on
the sale who wasn’t authorized to comment publicly. An
administration official said the package also includes upgraded
F16  jet engines , harbor boats and a frigate.  “We have made the decision to release additional items to
Bahrain mindful of the fact that there are a number of serious
unresolved human rights issues that the government of Bahrain
needs to address,” Nuland said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  The U.S. is withholding anti-tank missiles, which could be
used against protester strongholds, as well Humvees, she said.  “Certain additional items for the Bahrain Defense Force,
as well as all items for the Ministry of the Interior, excepting
the Coast Guard and units deployed in  Afghanistan , will also
remain on hold,” she said. “The items that we are releasing
are not used for crowd control.”  The sale is “completely out of step with the United
States’ stated commitment to reform in Bahrain,” said Brian
Dooley of Human Rights First. Dooley recently returned from the
 Persian Gulf  nation and issued a report detailing police abuse,
judicial harassment and restrictions of human rights groups’
access.  Excessive Force  A U.S. official said the administration has raised its
concerns with Bahraini officials about human rights, including
individual cases such as that of jailed protest leader Abdulhadi
al-Khawaja, who has been on a hunger strike since Feb. 8.  The U.S. is concerned about “excessive use of force and
tear gas by police” as Bahrain has become “increasingly
polarized,” Nuland said. While Bahrain has “begun to take some
important steps” on reforms, “much work remains to be done,”
she said.  “The  United States  believes that addressing the underlying
causes of last year’s unrest and undertaking meaningful
political and institutional reforms are critical to Bahrain’s
stability and the strength of our countries’ longstanding
partnership,” she said.  The U.S. and Bahrain signed a defense agreement in 1991,
and the weapons sales are geared toward providing
interoperability between the two countries’ militaries. Bahrain
is home to the U.S. Fifth Fleet and is positioned as a bulwark
against Iranian ambitions in the Persian Gulf.  Gulf Security Commitment  Maintaining Bahrain’s military capabilities is a “critical
component of our commitment to Gulf security, Nuland said.  After lifting a state of emergency in June 2011, Bahrain
embarked on a report by a government-appointed Commission of
Inquiry that issued recommendations for reform. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  met with Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad al- Khalifa and took note of the steps taken to implement the
recommendations, according to a State Department statement.  While Bahrain has begun implementing reforms, Senator
 Patrick Leahy  continues to have concerns about the lack of
credible investigations of past abuses by the police and
military and about the continuing violence, according to his
spokesman, David Carle. Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who heads the
Senate panel responsible for the State Department’s funding,
crafted conditions placed on sales of tear gas and other crowd-
control items after Bahrain crushed protests.  ‘‘It’s not a black-and-white situation,” Carle said,
saying that some protesters have used violent tactics. “But
there clearly is a popular desire for more political freedom in
Bahrain, and Senator Leahy is concerned about how the government
is dealing with the situation, including the need for credible
investigations of the use of excessive force by its security
forces.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  