-- U.S. Senator Questions Fed on Chinese Bank Decision
-- B y   J i m   R u b i n
-- 2012-05-11T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/u-s-senator-questions-fed-on-chinese-bank-decision.html
A Federal Reserve decision to let
Chinese banks acquire U.S. lenders was challenged by Senator  Bob Casey , who said it could open the way for Chinese government-run
institutions to undercut U.S. banks.  “I worry that these banks and their U.S. subsidiaries will
use their state support as a way to underprice U.S. banks,”
Casey, a Pennsylvania Democrat and chairman of the Joint
Economic Committee, said in a letter yesterday to Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke .  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  won approval
from the Fed on May 9 to buy a U.S. lender in the biggest
opening of the American banking market to Chinese companies. The
Fed allowed ICBC to operate as a bank holding company, buying a
controlling stake in  Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23) ’s U.S. unit. The Fed
also let Bank of  China  Ltd. and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) 
open U.S. branches.  The  decision  marks the first time that regulators have
allowed a Chinese bank to buy a majority stake in a U.S.
depository institution. ICBC Chairman  Jiang Jianqing  has spent
more than $6 billion on acquisitions in regions spanning Asia to
South Africa and the Americas over the past three years, seeking
to triple the share of profit coming from abroad to 10 percent.  “China has a long and well-documented record of
undercutting U.S. companies and workers,” Casey said in a
statement. Its “history of flouting international trade rules
requires that any involvement in the U.S. banking system needs
close scrutiny.”  In  his letter , Casey said he intends to press Bernanke to
explain the Fed’s decision when he testifies before Congress’s
Joint Economic Committee on June 7.  Toehold for Growth  The $140 million acquisition of 80 percent in Bank of  East
Asia ’s U.S. arm gives Beijing-based ICBC 10 branches in
California and three in  New York , a toehold for U.S. growth. The
initial agreement in January 2011 was among as many as 60 signed
by Chinese and U.S. firms during President Hu Jintao’s visit for
talks with President Barack Obama.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the nation’s second largest,
is in talks to buy the South American assets of WestLB AG, the
Wall Street Journal reported, citing a person it didn’t
identify. The bank seeks the assets to pursue commercial banking
in the continent in a deal that may be valued between $200
million and $300 million and wrapped up by June, the newspaper
said.  ICBC was the largest bank in China at the end of 2011, with
$2.5 trillion in assets, and is about 71 percent-owned by the
government, according to the Fed’s order. Bank of East Asia,
based in  Hong Kong , is run by the family of Chairman David Li.  Bank of China, the third-largest Chinese bank by assets,
received approval to open a federal branch in Chicago, while
Agricultural Bank, the fourth largest, obtained approval to open
a state-licensed branch in New York, according to the Fed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Rubin in Washington at 
 jimrubin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  