-- Stocks Drop on JPMorgan Trading Loss as Commodities Slump
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-05-11T20:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/u-s-equity-futures-commodities-drop-as-jpmorgan-announces-loss.html
U.S. stocks fell, extending a weekly
decline, as banks tumbled after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  disclosed a
$2 billion trading loss. Treasuries capped the longest run of
weekly gains since 1998, while commodities fell for an eighth
day to extend the longest slump in more than three years.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.3 percent to close
at 1,353.39 at 4 p.m. in  New York , sending it down 1.2 percent
in the week. The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities lost 0.8
percent to extend this week’s slump to 1.7 percent and erase its
gain for the year. The advance in 10-year Treasuries sent yields
down two basis points to 1.84 percent as the benchmark note
completed an eighth weekly increase.  Financial shares led losses as JPMorgan Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  blamed an “egregious” failure in trading
of synthetic credit securities for the trading loss, distracting
investors’ attention from an unexpected increase in the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment to a
four-year high. Commodities fell as  China ’s industrial
production grew the least since 2009 in April, spurring concern
demand for raw materials may wane.  “The  U.S. economy  is doing OK, corporate earnings continue
to impress, but there’s a lot of headline risk in financials,”
 Stephen Wood , the New York-based chief market strategist for
Russell Investments, said in a telephone interview. His firm
oversees $140.8 billion. “There will be volatility.”  The  S&P 500  fell for a second straight week and extended
its drop from a four-year high last month to 4.6 percent.  JPMorgan Plunges  JPMorgan plunged 9.3 percent, the most since August. The
bank’s chief investment office, run by Ina Drew, took flawed
positions on synthetic credit securities that remain volatile
and may cost the lender an additional $1 billion this quarter or
next, Dimon said yesterday in a conference call with analysts.
 Fitch Ratings  cut the company’s long-term debt rating one level
to A+ after markets closed in New York  Federal Reserve officials are gathering more information
about the trading position at the bank, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman Mary Shapiro said the agency is monitoring the bank.
U.S. Senator  Bob Corker , a senior Republican on the Banking
Committee, asked the panel’s chairman today to hold a hearing on
the trades.  JPMorgan led losses in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average ,
which slipped 34.44 points to 12,820.60, with Bank of America
Corp. losing 2 percent for the second-biggest drop. Financial
shares in the S&P 500 fell 1.2 percent as a group.  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  jumped 6.4 percent, the most since October, as
its sales forecast topped estimates amid demand for graphics and
cell-phone chips. S&P 500 technology companies slipped 0.1
percent after leading the market higher earlier.  Swaps Index  Derivatives traders seeking to profit on speculation
JPMorgan is unwinding positions tied to its trading loss are
driving up a vintage credit-default swaps index to the highest
in more than three months.  The 10-year Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index
Series 9, created in 2007, reached as high as 139.4 basis points
today before easing to 134.1 as of 12:41 p.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The index ended yesterday at 126.7.  Treasuries  Ten-year Treasury yields approached three-month low after
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  suggested the euro
area could handle  Greece  dropping out. Thirty-year bonds gained
as wholesale inflation declined last month before the  Federal
Reserve  buys as much as $2 billion of longer-term securities.  Average estimates for 10-year Treasury yields three months
from now are at 1.99 percent, 24 basis points lower than
expectations in April, according to a survey from Citigroup Inc,
published yesterday.  All but three of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI
retreated. Cotton tumbled as much as 5.7 percent to an almost
two-year low to lead losses following a U.S. forecast for rising
inventories. Gold declined to a four-month low, losing 0.7
percent to $1,584 an ounce. Copper fell 1.2 percent to $3.648 a
pound, capping a second weekly drop, following slower-than-
forecast growth in industrial production in China, the biggest
consumer of the metal. Oil fell 1 percent to $96.13 a barrel.  “The optimism we had at the end of 2011 that created a
firm footing for a lot of commodities has slowly eroded,” said
 Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of Barratt’s Bulletin, a
commodity-markets newsletter in Sydney. “The outlook remains
mixed to negative.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , a gauge of the currency against six major
peers, rose 0.2 percent to 80.282 as it climbed for a 10th
straight day in the longest rally since August 2008. The dollar
strengthened against 14 of 16 major peers. The euro slipped 0.1
percent to $1.2919, the lowest level since January.  European, Emerging Markets  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.4 percent, erasing a loss
of as much as 1.2 percent. The regional benchmark fell 0.4
percent this week as Greece’s struggles to form a government
revived concern about the nation’s debt crisis. The euro was
little changed at $1.2931 after earlier touching the weakest
level since January.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 1.2 percent, extending
declines from this year’s March 2 high to 10 percent, the level
that some investors consider to signal a correction. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slumped 1.4 percent. India’s Sensex
Index slipped 0.8 percent as production at factories, utilities
and mines declined in March.  Germany’s 10-year bund yield fell two basis points to a
record low of 1.52 percent, while the yield on Greece’s 10-year
note advanced 57 basis points, climbing for the ninth straight
day. Greek political leaders go into a fifth day of talks today
with  Evangelos Venizelos , the socialist Pasok leader, set to
press for a unity government that would avert a new election.
Antonis Samaras, head of the New Democracy party, said today his
sole condition for supporting a coalition government is that it
guarantees Greece’s membership of the euro area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  