-- Hughes to Get $1.6 Million Bonus If QPR Stays Up: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-11T06:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/hughes-to-get-1-6-million-bonus-if-qpr-stays-up-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  $1 Million Bonus      Mark Hughes  will get a 1 million-pound ($1.6 million) bonus
if he keeps Queens Park Rangers in the Premier League with a
result that could also prevent his former club Manchester City
winning the title, the  Daily Express reported .  Hughes, whose team needs to avoid defeat at City in two
days to stay in the elite division, will pick up the payment as
part of an agreement with QPR owner  Tony Fernandes  when he was
appointed as manager in January, the newspaper said.  Budget Blow   Liverpool owner Fenway Sports Group is ready to let  Kenny Dalglish  continue as manager, though he will be given a reduced
budget for new players, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Dalglish, who spent 108 million pounds on six players in
2011 including Andy Carroll,  Luis Suarez  and Stewart Downing,
will instead need to seek bargains and free agents, the Mirror
added.  Solbakken Surprise  Wolverhampton Wanderers  will appoint former Norway
midfielder Stale Solbakken as manager “in the coming days” in
a surprise move, the  Guardian reported .  The 44-year-old Solbakken, who was fired as coach of German
Bundesliga team Cologne last month, will be tasked with securing
an immediate return to the Premier League, the Guardian said.
Interim manager Terry Connor is likely to stay at the club as an
assistant, the newspaper added.  Joining Juventus  Manchester United midfielder Paul Pogba will join Juventus
on July 1 after deciding against signing a new contract with the
Premier League club, the  Daily Mail reported .  The 19-year-old Pogba, who was rated one of the best young
products in United’s academy, will sign a four-year deal with
the Italian champion worth 20,000 pounds a week when his United
contract expires at the end of June, the newspaper added.  Arsenal Track  Arsenal is tracking Borussia Dortmund midfielder Shinji
Kagawa, who could be available for about 7 million pounds
because his contract expires next year, the  Mirror reported .  Manchester United  has been courting the Japanese
international, who’s scored nine goals in 29 games for his
country, the newspaper added.  Giggs’s for Team GB  United manager  Alex Ferguson  has given  Ryan Giggs , 38,
permission to represent the Great Britain team at the London
Olympics, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  United has informed the Football Association that Welsh
midfielder Giggs would be the only over-age player released by
the club should he be selected in Stuart Pearce’s Team GB squad,
the newspaper added.  Lazar Sights   Chelsea is trying to beat Liverpool to the signature of
Partizan Belgrade’s attacking midfielder Lazar Markovic, who is
said to have been recommended by former Blues manager  Avram Grant , the  Daily Mail reported .  Partizan would want about 16 million pounds for Markovic,
18, who made his debut for Serbia in February, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  