-- UkrLandFarming Seeks to Supply Corn as China Diversifies Sources
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-11T03:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/ukrlandfarming-seeks-to-supply-corn-as-china-diversifies-sources.html
Ukrlandfarming Plc, Ukraine’s largest
grain producer, wants to export corn to  China  as the country
seeks to diversify its supply away from the U.S. to strengthen
 food security , Chairman and owner Oleg Bakhmatyuk said.  Ukrlandfarming may harvest 1.6 million metric tons of corn
this year, he said in an interview on May 8. China may displace
 Japan  by 2014 as the largest corn importer, the  U.S. Grains
Council  said last month.  Corn imports by China may advance 35 percent as a rapid
increase in meat demand boosts consumption of grains to feed
chickens and pigs, the  United Nations  said May 3. Argentina and
 Laos  have been approved to ship corn to China, the Beijing-based
quarantine bureau said April 28. Ukraine has increased
production more than threefold in the past five years and is the
world’s second-biggest exporter, according the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture .  “There is a lot of potential for China to co-operate with
Ukraine,”  Li Qiang , chairman of Shanghai JC Intelligence Co.,
said by phone from Hubei province. “It fits China’s overall
strategy to increase corn-supply sources.”  The company, also known as ULF, has contracts to sell corn
to China, although it needs to clear “sluggish bureaucracy”
before shipments can start, Bakhmatyuk said. Exporters need a
phytosanitary certification before commercial shipments can
start, according to the  website  of General Administration of
Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine.  Hong Kong Listing  ULF is also seeking a Chinese partner to help it secure an
initial listing in  Hong Kong , said Bakhmatyuk.  “We believe this will be a story that will appeal to both
Chinese and international investors,” he said. The listing will
“probably” be next year, he said. Bakhmatyuk is also chairman
and controlling shareholder  Avangardco Investments Public Ltd. (AVGR) ,
the second-biggest egg producer in the world behind Cal-Maine
Foods Inc., according to industry website Worldpoultry.net.  Ukrainian corn would cost about $320 per ton for sale from
Chinese ports, he said at a press briefing before the interview.
The spot price of U.S. corn after tax on May 8 cost the
equivalent of $404 at Chinese ports, while China’s domestic corn
was $402, according to Shanghai JC Intelligence.  “There has been good feedback from the Chinese side,”
Bakhmatyuk said, referring to an approval of sales. Li Yuanping,
Beijing-based spokesman at quarantine agency, didn’t return a
call to his office.  Ukraine will become one of the biggest producers of corn,
rivaling  Brazil , with annual output rising to 60 million to 70
million tons in five to seven years, compared with 23 million to
25 million tons this year, according to Bakhmatyuk. The country
can “easily” provide 10 million to 15 million tons to China a
year, satisfying half of its import needs, he said.  ULF last month signed an agreement with China CAMC
Engineering Co., a state-owned infrastructure builder, which
will build a grain port, warehouses and meat-production centers
in the eastern European country, and the Export-Import Bank of
China will provide $4.1 billion in loans, according to an
exchange filing by the Chinese company.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  