-- Mumbai Land Prices Set to Extend 15% Decline, Oberoi Realty Says
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-05-11T01:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/mumbai-land-prices-set-to-extend-15-decline-oberoi-realty-says.html
Mumbai land prices,  India ’s most
expensive, may extend their 15 percent decline this year as high
borrowing costs force indebted developers to sell real estate,
 Oberoi Realty Ltd. (OBER)  Chairman Vikas Oberoi said.  Land transactions have dried up as buyers aren’t willing to
pay higher prices or “ferociously” compete to purchase land,
while sellers have been holding out, he said.  “We are waiting for the right opportunity to buy,”
Oberoi, who runs India’s second-largest developer by market
value, said in an interview in Mumbai. “I don’t want to waste
my bullets. These are high-cost acquisitions and they can make
or break a company.”  India’s biggest developers are failing to rein in record
 debt  as they grapple with high borrowing costs, dwindling sales,
and banks reluctant to lend to developers. Oberoi, with no debt
and about 13 billion rupees ($244 million) in cash, will take
advantage of falling prices to buy land, he said.  Oberoi Realty reported a 5 percent increase in earnings to
1.43 billion rupees in the three months ended March 31 as the
company increased  home prices , beating analyst estimates. The
developer, backed by Morgan Stanley, raised 10.3 billion rupees
after selling shares at 260 rupees each in an initial public
offering in October 2010.  Oberoi is one of only two listed real estate developers in
India with a net operating cash surplus after taking into
account debt servicing, Rakshit Ranjan, a Mumbai-based analyst
at Ambit Capital Pvt., said in a note dated April 26, after the
developer reported earnings.  ‘Missing Clarity’  Still, analysts have expressed concern that Oberoi isn’t
deploying cash to buy land and putting the money to better use.  The “missing clarity” on new land acquisitions may be a
drag on valuations with “idle cash” offering lower returns,
Mumbai-based analyst Tejas Sheth at Emkay Global Financial
Services Ltd. said in a note to clients on April 26. He retained
his “accumulate” rating on the stock and raised the target
price by 17 percent to 315 rupees a share, citing strong sales
in the fourth quarter.  Oberoi said he is in the market to buy land.  “I am not watching the audience, I am watching my game,
not playing for the gallery.” Oberoi said. “I am very
interested and very aggressive to acquire land, but aggression
can’t be jumping off the cliff, it has to be backed with caution
and preparation. After I jump I want to land on my feet not on
my head.”  New Rules  Mumbai’s amended building rules for  home construction  will
spur new projects and increase supply in India’s most expensive
 property market , where permissions to build had come to a
virtual halt, Oberoi said.  New rules by the state government will allow buyers to
expand the size of their apartments by enclosing spaces such as
balconies, flowerbeds and terraces.  “The rules have crystallized what one can get, the basic
land potential is clear,” Oberoi said. “Discrimination between
two developers has now gone as everyone gets the same area. It’s
leveled the playing field in a big way, which is fantastic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 