-- Turkey Current-Account Gap Narrows as Bank Raises Funding Costs
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-05-11T07:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/turkey-current-account-gap-narrows-as-bank-raises-funding-costs.html
Turkey ’s  current-account deficit 
narrowed for a fifth month after the central bank tightened
monetary policy to curb domestic spending that helped push the
gap to a record.  The March deficit was $6.1 billion, the same as the median
estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of eight economists,  compared 
with $9.6 billion in the same month last year, the central bank
in Ankara said on its website today, The deficit was $4.2
billion in February.  Turkey’s current-account gap swelled to a record of more
than 10 percent of gross domestic product last year as a  booming
economy  sucked in imports. The lira’s slide in the second half
of the year, coupled with the central bank’s monetary tightening
to rein in loan growth, have helped narrow the gap since
October.  “We are at or very close to the end of the sequential
improvement in external deficit, given the central bank’s lira-
supportive policy stance, high  oil prices  and gradual pick-up in
economic activity,”  Inan Demir , chief economist at Finansbank
AS in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. He said the gap will
shrink to $63 billion, or 7.7 percent of GDP, by year-end as
“base effects will continue to support a narrowing.”  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci, who varies funding costs
for banks on a daily basis within a so-called rate corridor, has
tightened policy since February, pushing borrowing  rates  on the
 interbank market  above 10 percent this week.  The lira has gained about 5.5 percent against the dollar
this year, after an 18 percent slump in 2011. The currency
dropped 0.5 percent to 1.7923 per dollar at 9:50 a.m. in
Istanbul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  