-- Turkey Bonds Decline as Tighter Central Bank Policy Continues
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-05-11T14:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/turkey-bonds-decline-most-in-a-week-as-tighter-policy-continues.html
Turkish bonds fell, pushing the rise
in yields so far in May to the strongest this year, after the
central bank refrained from lending at its lowest policy rate
for a sixth day, extending the duration of its tightening cycle.  The  yield  on two-year benchmark debt rose six basis points,
or 0.06 percentage point, to 9.51 percent at the close in
Istanbul, increasing the monthly jump to 19 basis points, the
biggest leap this year.  The Turkish central bank varies its funding rate on a daily
basis, maintaining borrowing costs within a 5.75 percent to 11.5
percent interest-rate corridor introduced last year. It has
refrained from lending at its lowest policy rate to control
inflation which at 11.1 percent is at its three-and-half year
high. The bank last halted lending at the 5.75 percent rate
between April 12 and 18 after the lira fell to a low of 1.8177
against the dollar.  “It is normal that short-term debt performs badly when the
policy is so tight,” Sercan Kiliclar, a fixed-income strategist
at  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , said in e-mailed comments.  The lira weakened as much as 0.6 percent before paring its
loss to 0.1 percent at 1.7867 per dollar by 4:58 p.m. in
Istanbul. The currency has depreciated 1.6 percent against the
dollar this week, paring this year’s rise to 5.9 percent.  Emre Balkeser, head of trading at Garanti Securities in
Istanbul: “The risk perception has reversed after JPMorgan loss
report and a part of the cash that entered yesterday is leaving.
The money flows are very short term and it may cause such
fluctuations.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said it lost about $2 billion tied to
synthetic credit securities after positions taken by its chief
investment office were riskier than expected.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment for May rose to 77.8 from 76.4 the
prior month. The U.S. gauge was projected to drop to 76,
according to the median forecast of 68 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  