-- Warren Beating Brown Would Send First Woman to Senate
-- B y   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-05-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/warren-beating-brown-would-send-first-woman-to-senate.html
At a breakfast with  Elizabeth Warren 
supporters two weeks ago, Chet Jakubiak, chairman of the
Democratic town committee in Grafton, Massachusetts, took the
microphone and raised an issue the candidate and her campaign
rarely do.  “It is long past due that this commonwealth has sent a
woman to the United States Senate,” he told the crowd of about
75 gathered in the second-floor meeting room of the Grafton Inn.  A win would make Warren, the presumptive Democratic
nominee, the first woman the state has sent to the  U.S. Senate ,
and just its fifth to Congress. Massachusetts is the only state
in New England, except Rhode Island, to have never elected a
woman to the Senate or the governorship. Warren’s bid to unseat
Republican Senator  Scott Brown  also could influence which party
controls the chamber.  Her gender may be her biggest asset -- or her greatest
liability, political strategists say.  “What is irrefutable is that Massachusetts has a glass
ceiling. Elizabeth Warren seems to have everything you need to
shatter it,” said Mary Anne Marsh, a Democratic consultant not
aligned with the campaign.  Political Culture  Massachusetts’ political reputation was built on the
groundbreaking civil rights advocacy of former President  John F. Kennedy  and his brothers, and former U.S. House Speaker Tip O’Neill’s opposition to Republican President  Ronald Reagan  and
the  Vietnam War . The state became the first to legalize same-sex
marriage in 2004 and its health-care mandate, signed into law by
the  Republican Party ’s presumptive presidential nominee,  Mitt Romney , served as a template for President  Barack Obama ’s
federal overhaul.  Still, voters have never elected a woman to the position
Warren seeks. Just one of its 10-member U.S. House delegation is
a woman and two hold statewide executive office. At  25 percent ,
the proportion of women in its state legislature puts it behind
22 states and last among its New England neighbors, according to
the Center for American Women and Politics at  Rutgers University 
in New Brunswick,  New Jersey .  “The conventional wisdom of this race is Massachusetts is
liberal” and that President Barack Obama’s name at the top of
ballot will boost turnout and push Warren over the victory line,
said Marsh. “No, it’s not a liberal state; it doesn’t elect
women; and Obama alone isn’t enough.”  Three Brothers  Warren, 62, the architect of Obama’s Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau and a Harvard University professor, stood
outside Dinky’s Blue Belle Diner in Shrewsbury and recalled what
growing up as the only sister to three brothers taught her about
gender politics.  “Get tough or die. I’m serious -- it’s get tough or fold
and my answer was get tough,” said Warren, who recently
attended a joint fundraiser in Austin with four other
presumptive Democratic candidates whom, if elected to the Senate
in November, would become the first woman to do so in their
states --  Wisconsin ,  Nevada , Hawaii and North Dakota. Female
representation in Congress is at a record  17 percent  while still
lower than most developed countries, according to Rutgers.  Among the hurdles for women seeking statewide office is one
common in many states: the absence of  term limits  -- former
Democratic Senator  Edward Kennedy  held his post for almost five
decades.  State Hurdles  Structural reasons, some unique to  Massachusetts , also
contribute to the dearth of statewide female politicians, said
Leanne Doherty, a professor of political science at Simmons
College in  Boston . They include restrictive campaign finance
regulations that can make it harder to raise money for people
starting out, and there is the problem of an “old boys’ club,”
she said.  “Massachusetts has one of the most entrenched political
machines in the country still,” Doherty said. “This idea of
Massachusetts being progressive in a lot of ways doesn’t apply
to perceptions of female leadership.”  Of course, there have been times when women candidates have
erred and sealed their own fates. Attorney General  Martha Coakley  in early polls was well ahead of Brown in the 2010
special election held after Kennedy’s death. Her candidacy began
a decline after he aggressively stumped the state and plummeted
after she inaccurately claimed former Red Sox pitcher Curt Schilling, who helped the team win a pennant victory over the
 New York  Yankees in 2004, was a Yankees fan.  Brown, 52, is once again canvassing the state for votes in
his contest with Warren. He doesn’t look at the election “as a
gender issue,” he said.  Qualifications Not Gender  “I look at it as a qualification and a track record
issue,” he said. “The people of Massachusetts -- that’s what
I’ve always appreciated about them -- they’re going to vote for
the most qualified person and that’s what I encourage them to
do.”  Brown was in Worcester, the state’s second biggest city,
picking up the endorsement of its former female mayor, following
that of Boston’s former male mayor. Both are Democrats who
crossed party lines to back the Republican incumbent.  Back on the campaign trail in the green pick-up truck he
used two years ago to convey a working man’s image during the
Coakley race, Brown highlights bill signings he attended at the
White House as proof of his commitment to bipartisanship. He co-
sponsored the two measures with Democrats.  Independent Voters  According to the Secretary of State’s office, 51 percent of
the electorate isn’t registered with either party. An analysis
by Tim Vercellotti, who directs the Western  New England 
University Polling Institute in Springfield, found that self-
identified independents are split almost evenly between men and
women, 49 percent to 51 percent.  While more recent surveys by other pollsters show a tighter
race, Vercellotti’s last poll, conducted Feb. 23 to March 1,
found Brown leading Warren among all voters 49 percent to 41
percent. Independent voters overall and independent women
favored Brown 2 to 1.  “Generally speaking, one expects to see a gender gap in
which women tend to favor the Democratic candidate and men tend
to favor the Republican,” he said. “In our poll, Warren led
Brown by 4 points among all women voters. She needs to get that
margin into the double digits to win.”  A May 8 Rasmussen Reports poll also found a tight contest,
with Warren and Brown tied at 45 percent.  Warren’s campaign doesn’t typically hold events
specifically targeted toward women. On April 29, at multiple
campaign stops, Warren delivered various versions of a speech on
economic justice that went  viral  on YouTube last year.  Economic Message  “We have a real choice in this election -- the other side
has laid out clearly where they want to go,” she said to a
packed Coffee Loft in Marlborough. “Do we want to be a country
of ‘I got mine, the rest of you are on your own’? Or do we want
to be a country that says, ‘We celebrate success. We believe
that every one of us needs to pay forward so we create the right
decisions so that the next kid has a chance to make it big and
the kid after that and the kid after that?’”  Warren’s background as a consumer advocate and decades
spent researching how government policies impact the  middle
class  will help her sway voters, said Barbara Lee, who founded
an eponymous foundation devoted to researching and boosting
female participation in politics.  A study by her foundation showed that female candidates are
more successful when they demonstrate strength on economic and
defense issues. “Especially in hard times people understand
that it’s women who balance the checkbook,” said Lee, who
encouraged Warren to run.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in Worcester, Massachusetts at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  