-- What Jamie Dimon Doesn’t Know Is Plain Scary
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-05-11T14:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-11/what-jamie-dimon-doesn-t-know-is-plain-scary.html
Could Jamie Dimon really be as
clueless as he sounded on the phone yesterday?  Last month, after Bloomberg News broke the story that
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chief investment office had, in essence,
become a ticking time bomb, Dimon, the bank’s chief executive
officer, called the press coverage “a complete tempest in a
teapot.” That explanation no longer works.  Yesterday, Dimon changed tacks. Losses on the investment
office’s “synthetic credit portfolio” had reached $2 billion
so far this quarter, though he refused to give any meaningful
details on how that had happened. Presumably, these are
derivatives of some sort, but even that basic fact was too much
for the bank to specify.  What Dimon lacked in information, he more than made up for
in assigning blame -- to himself and JPMorgan employees. “There
are many errors, sloppiness and bad judgment,” he said, as
JPMorgan’s stock sank in after-hours trading. “These were
egregious mistakes. They were self-inflicted.” He called
himself and his colleagues “stupid.”  But there is more to it than that. Either Dimon misled the
public about the gravity of the festering trades during his
company’s first-quarter earnings call last month. Or he didn’t
know what was happening inside the bowels of his own company.
History tells us the latter is the norm for Wall Street bosses,
though it’s hard to say which is worse.  New Rule  Don’t bother asking JPMorgan how it accumulated all these
losses. That information is proprietary, as if the taxpayers who
bailed out the bank in 2008 don’t have any business knowing.
Here’s an idea for a new rule: If a too-big-to-fail bank can’t
disclose what its trading desk is doing for fear of blowing
itself up, then the bank shouldn’t be allowed to do it.  It’s not often that a huge company calls an emergency
teleconference on short notice to discuss an intra-quarter
trading loss that’s equivalent to only 1 percent of  shareholder
equity . So when a Deutsche Bank AG stock analyst named  Matt O’Connor  asked Dimon why the company had disclosed it at all,
the answer was bound to be revealing.  “It could get worse, and it’s going to go on for a little
bit unfortunately,” Dimon replied. The meaning was clear. Worse
could mean disastrous.  Here’s what little Dimon said of the trades in question:
“The synthetic credit portfolio was a strategy to hedge the
firm’s overall credit exposure, which is our largest risk
overall in this stressed credit environment. We’re reducing that
hedge. But in hindsight, the new strategy was flawed, complex,
poorly reviewed, poorly executed and poorly monitored. The
portfolio has proven to be riskier, more volatile and less
effective as an economic hedge than we thought.”  There is a tantalizing clue in this language. Read the
statement carefully and you can see this wasn’t a bona fide
hedge. That means it probably was no different, in substance,
than a speculative wager. The definition of an “economic
hedge,” literally, is an investment that doesn’t qualify for
hedge accounting, meaning its  effectiveness  at offsetting a
given risk isn’t sufficiently reliable. Otherwise the wiggle
word “economic” wouldn’t be needed. It’s also conceivable that
Dimon didn’t understand the details of the trades, and simply
declined to discuss them rather than admit this.  The reason the world learned last month of JPMorgan’s
“London Whale” bets on the credit markets to begin with is
they had become so big -- with as much as $100 billion riding on
one side of a single transaction -- that the bank’s trades were
moving, and maybe even distorting, the market. Some of the
bank’s counterparts were so upset about this that they started
complaining to journalists.  Getting Squeezed  They seem to have discerned the broad outlines of the
trading positions a while ago. Now they are squeezing the bank
for maximum gain, while JPMorgan is trying to unwind the trades
without losing its skin. JPMorgan can delay coming clean with
the basic facts, though they probably will come out eventually.
Some  congressional  committee is bound to subpoena its trading
records.  Remember, Dimon said the purpose of the strategy was to
protect the company from the risk of a “stressed credit
environment.” One curiosity: The footnote on  credit derivatives 
in JPMorgan’s latest  quarterly report  says the company sold
$3.16 trillion of credit protection as of March 31 and bought
$2.95 trillion of credit protection on the same underlying
instruments.  In other words, on a company-wide basis, JPMorgan was a net
seller of credit protection last quarter -- to the tune of about
$206 billion, up from $116 billion as of Dec. 31. So, JPMorgan
doesn’t seem to have been reducing credit risk last quarter. It
was taking on more. And if credit defaults suddenly surged, it
would lose a lot of money. (Maybe this is what Dimon meant when
he said the bank’s strategy was poorly executed.)  How do the chief investment office’s trades fit into all of
this? Hard to say. Without knowing what they were, there’s no
way to know how to reconcile Dimon’s description of the strategy
with the numbers in the footnote.  There really is only one conclusion to draw from all this:
Dimon must know he has a lot more explaining to do.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  