-- L’Oreal Jumps as Agon Keeps Nestle Stake Buyback Option Open
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-08-30T11:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/l-oreal-maintains-annual-targets-as-first-half-profit-rises-1-.html
L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s largest
cosmetics maker, rose the most in three years in Paris trading
as the company kept open the option of buying back the 29
percent stake held by  Nestle SA (NESN)  and profitability improved.  The shares  gained  as much as 6.2 percent to 130 euros, the
steepest intraday gain since August 2010. That boosted L’Oreal’s
market value to almost 79 billion euros ($105 billion).  The maker of Lancome mascara has “considerable financial
resources” including cash and a stake in French drugmaker
Sanofi that enable it to consider all opportunities, Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Paul Agon said at a meeting with analysts
and reporters. He spoke after L’Oreal reported a 7.7 percent
increase in first-half earnings.  As of April, Nestle will be able to sell its stake to a
third party without having to offer it first to the billionaire
heirs of L’Oreal’s founder. L’Oreal shares have been boosted by
speculation that the French company may buy back the holding, a
move that would be “significantly accretive” to earnings,
according to  Andrew Wood , an  analyst  at Sanford C. Bernstein in
 Singapore .  “We are not fully convinced this will happen,” Wood said
in a note today. He rates L’Oreal underperform.  Nestle Review  Nestle is considering all options for its L’Oreal stake,
including the status quo, Handelszeitung reported Aug. 28,
citing an interview with Chairman Peter Brabeck-Letmathe.  L’Oreal shares were up 4.7 percent at 128.20 euros as of
1:39 p.m. Nestle rose 0.5 percent to 60.90 Swiss francs.  “It seems to me perfectly normal” that Nestle should be
reviewing all its options, said Agon, declining to comment on
his preferred outcome.  L’Oreal has  cash  that is “there to be used,” he said. The
company is confident there will be opportunities and may use its
9 percent stake in  Sanofi (SAN)  to help fund them, he said. That
holding is worth about 8.8 billion euros at current prices,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sanofi shares fell as much as 1.2 percent and were trading
down 0.6 percent at 73.61 euros as of 1:39 p.m.  First-half operating income climbed to 2.04 billion euros,
Paris-based L’Oreal said yesterday after markets closed,
compared with the 2.03 billion-euro median estimate of eight
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Magic Purchase  Operating profit as a percentage of sales reached 17.4
percent, a record for a six-month period. The maker of
Maybelline is benefiting from growth in developing regions such
as Asia-Pacific and  Latin America . The company this month agreed
to buy  Magic Holdings International Ltd. (1633) , the top-selling
facial-mask brand in  China , where Euromonitor estimates beauty
and personal-care product sales will expand 8 percent this year.  L’Oreal said it’s confident in its ability “to once again
outperform the market and to achieve a further year of growth in
sales, results and profitability.”  The company said it expects the global beauty-market growth
to slow to about 3.5 percent to 4 percent this year.  Profitability widened in all divisions in the first half,
the company said. Margin expansion was led by gains in the
consumer-products unit, whose operating profit was 20.8 percent
of sales compared with 19.9 percent a year earlier.  “The mass cosmetics business had such a good margin, which
is pretty exceptional in staples,” said Rahul Sharma, managing
director of Neev Capital in  London . Beauty is a category “where
you still have some pricing power,” while L’Oreal is benefiting
from its exposure to fast-growing markets, he said.  First-half  sales  rose 4.7 percent to 11.7 billion euros,
L’Oreal reported July 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  