-- Thailand’s Charoen Pokphand Said to Vie for Li’s ParknShop Chain
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-08-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/thailand-s-charoen-pokphand-said-to-vie-for-li-s-parknshop-chain.html
Thai billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont’s Charoen Pokphand Group is bidding for  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Hong Kong supermarket chain, said three people
with knowledge of the matter.  Hutchison, the Hong Kong conglomerate controlled by
billionaire  Li Ka-shing , is in talks with about five potential
buyers after reviewing first-round bids for its ParknShop chain,
one of the people said, asking not to be identified because the
process is private. Hutchison is seeking $3 billion to $4
billion for the unit, a person familiar with the sale said this
month.  ParknShop attracted eight offers in mid-August from suitors
including  China  Resources Enterprise Ltd. and Sun Art Retail
Group Ltd., according to people with knowledge of the process.
The supermarket operator, which sells everything from eggs to
whiskey, is one of the two largest chains in Hong Kong’s $6.6
billion supermarket industry.  KKR & Co., TPG Capital,  Japan ’s Aeon Co. and Woolworths
Ltd. were also among those who made offers in the first round of
bidding, the people said earlier this month. TPG and KKR have
since dropped out of the process, people with knowledge of the
matter said.  While some bidders that do not have operations in  Hong Kong 
are asking Hutchison to retain a small stake in ParknShop and
continue managing the stores, Hutchison would prefer an outright
sale, one person said.  Deal Spree  Dhanin is buying at home and abroad, accounting for more
than half of the $27 billion in purchases announced in the last
year by Thai companies, including CP Group’s purchase of a $9.4
billion stake in China’s Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. CP All
Pcl, a Bangkok-based 7-Eleven operator controlled by the
billionaire, recently struck  Thailand ’s largest ever takeover
with the 189 billion baht ($5.9 billion) purchase of discount
wholesaler Siam Makro Pcl.  Suthana Hongthong, assistant vice president for Corporate
Communication Affairs at CP Group, declined to comment. Jeremy
Lau, a spokesman for Hutchison, declined to comment on the
ParknShop sale. Spokesmen for KKR and TPG couldn’t be reached.  Hong Kong-based  China Resources (291)  has said it may partner
with Tesco Plc to bid for ParknShop, which had revenue of
HK$21.7 billion ($2.8 billion) last year, and has more than 270
of its 345 outlets in Hong Kong.  Supermarket Share  Hutchison is looking into a sale as it accelerates overseas
investments and expands in telecommunications. Sales growth in
Hong Kong’s supermarket industry slowed to 7.7 percent in June
from last year’s annual increase of 11 percent and a 2011 peak
of 13 percent, government statistics show.  ParknShop had 33 percent of the Hong Kong grocery market in
2012, trailing Wellcome, controlled by Singapore-listed  Dairy
Farm International Holdings Ltd. (DFI) , with 40 percent, according to
researcher Euromonitor. CR Vanguard Supermarket, run by state-backed mainland conglomerate  China Resources , ranked third with
7.8 percent.  Dhanin has a net worth of $5.8 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Many of his assets are owned
through closely-held holding companies that he shares with his
three brothers. Dhanin’s net worth calculation excludes the
stakes held by his brothers, Jaran Chiaravanont, Montri
Jiaravanont and Sumet Jiaravanon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  