-- Malaysia’s KWAP Pension Fund to Raise Global Investments
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-08-30T05:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/malaysia-s-27-billion-pension-fund-to-raise-global-investments.html
Kumpulan Wang Persaraan
(Diperbadankan), Malaysia’s second-biggest pension fund, is
looking at real estate assets in  Australia  and the U.K. as it
seeks to increase its investments overseas.  “We are doing due diligence on an Australian property
worth more than A$100 million ($89 million),” Chief Executive
Officer Wan Kamaruzaman Wan Ahmadsaid in an interview in Kuala
Lumpur yesterday. “We want to increase our real estate
investments because it fits into our strategy and will give us
steady recurring income from rentals and upside on asset
appreciation.” He didn’t provide details of any U.K. property
investments under consideration.  The retirement savings fund, known as KWAP, with more than
91 billion ringgit ($27 billion) in assets, won approval from
the government to boost overseas investments to 19 percent of
its total from 10 percent, Second Finance Minister Ahmad Husni Mohamad Hanadzlah said today.  KWAP’s investment abroad now accounts for 6.2 percent of
its total assets, including 2 billion ringgit already invested
in properties in Australia, according to data on its website.
The fund also owns two properties in the U.K., taking its
international real estate assets to four, Chairman Mohd. Irwan
Serigar Abdullah said in  Kuala Lumpur  today, while giving
details of 2012 financial results.  U.S. Opportunities  Wan Kamaruzaman said today the pension fund is also looking
into the possibility of buying real estate in new markets such
as the U.S.  “The opportunities are there and the economy is on the way
up,” he said. “The rental yields in the U.S. are also as
attractive as the U.K. and Australia.”  Domestically,  KWAP  has used some of the 5 percent to 10
percent of funds it typically holds in cash to buy Malaysian
stocks and bonds during their recent slide, which was triggered
by expectations that the U.S. may reduce its monetary stimulus,
said Wan Kamaruzaman, who took up his position in May. The
weakness in the domestic markets is temporary and will recover
in two to three months, he said.  Global funds have withdrawn about $44 billion from
emerging-market stock and bond funds since the end of May
through last week, according to data provider EPFR Global, a
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based firm that tracks fund flows.  ‘Fickle-Minded’  Malaysia’s  stock market  has fallen 6.7 percent since it
touched a record of 1,826.22 on May 6 after Prime Minister Najib
Razak was re-elected in polls a day earlier. Yields on 10-year
 government bonds  have  climbed  72 basis points to 4.06 percent
while the ringgit slid 10 percent against the dollar over the
same period.  “The market is always fickle-minded,” Wan Kamaruzaman
said. “Can the fundamentals of a country change in four months?
I don’t think so.”  The ringgit’s fair value should be 3.10 to 3.20 against the
dollar as the country is backed by strong  reserves , Wan
Kamaruzaman said.  While global funds are shifting to developed nations, the
current weakness in the Malaysian currency will attract new
investors to look at buying ringgit assets, he said.  Ringgit Assets  KWAP held 22 billion ringgit, or 24 percent, of its assets
in government  bonds  at the end of March, making it the second-largest shareholder of that asset class in  Malaysia . It also
invested 28.4 billion ringgit in stocks, 26.53 billion ringgit
in loans and private debt securities and 8.07 billion ringgit in
money market deposits.  The Kuala Lumpur-based fund posted gross investment income
of 1.21 billion ringgit in the first quarter and 5.75 billion
ringgit in 2012, the highest since its establishment in 2007,
according to data published on its  website . The 23 percent
increase in income last year was due to a rally in the local
bond and equity markets, Wan Kamaruzaman said.  KWAP outperformed the 14 percent return posted by the
Employees Provident Fund or EPF, the nation’s biggest state-run
pension operator that manages 526.8 billion ringgit.  EPF fell one step to 10th spot in 2011 in a global  ranking 
of pension funds by consultants  Towers Watson & Co. (TW)   KWAP collects an average of about 4 billion ringgit
annually from its members or a monthly rate of 17.5 percent of
the pensionable employees’ basic salaries. As of March 31, there
were 484 contributing employers, which comprise statutory bodies
and local authorities, and 150,999 registered members, according
to information published on its website. EPF receives about 2
billion ringgit a month from its 13.6 million members, who make
a compulsory 11 percent monthly contribution while employers add
another 12 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  