-- Malaysian State Pension Fund Buying Stocks, Bonds During Rout
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-08-30T05:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/malaysian-state-pension-fund-buying-stocks-bonds-during-rout.html
Kumpulan Wang Persaraan
(Diperbadankan), Malaysia’s second-biggest pension fund, said it
has been a net buyer of the country’s stocks and bonds as
foreign investors cut their holdings in  Southeast Asia .  The retirement scheme, also known as KWAP, manages more
than 91 billion ringgit ($27 billion) of assets and is favoring
energy, banking and consumer stocks, Chief Executive Officer Wan Kamaruzaman Wan Ahmad said in an interview in  Kuala Lumpur 
yesterday. The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index has
fallen 5.1 percent from its July 24 record and the ringgit
slumped 5.3 percent this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The market is always fickle-minded,” Wan Kamaruzaman
said. “Can the fundamentals of a country change in four months?
I don’t think so.”  Thailand ’s Government Pension Fund and  Indonesia ’s state
retirement scheme PT Jamsostek have also said they bought local
equities during the recent regional market rout, triggered by
concerns over the U.S. potentially tapering its monetary
stimulus. The three Southeast Asian funds manage a combined $59
billion of assets.  The KLCI index traded for 14.9 times earnings estimates for
the next 12 months on Aug. 28, the lowest level since April, and
was valued at 15.2 times today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Yields on 10-year Malaysian  government bonds  have  climbed 
68 basis points to 4.06 percent since Prime Minister Najib Razak
was re-elected in May, while the ringgit slid 8.1 percent
against the dollar over the same period.  ‘Fundamentals Solid’  The MSCI Southeast Asia Index has dropped  19 percent  from
this year’s highest close on May 8. Global funds have withdrawn
about $44 billion from emerging-market stock and bond funds
since the end of May through last week, according to EPFR Global,
a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based firm that tracks fund flows.  The KLCI was 0.9 percent higher as of 12:30 p.m. break in
Kuala today, while the ringgit rose 0.4 percent to 3.3012 per
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The currency’s fair value should be 3.10 to 3.20 against
the dollar as the country is backed by strong foreign exchange
 reserves , Wan Kamaruzaman said.  “The decline in the regional market is a short-term
capital flows issue and not fundamentals,” Wan Kamaruzaman
separately told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. “Although some
of the markets are in negative territory, I’m not alarmed. At
this juncture, I have not changed my view that fundamentals are
still solid.”  Malaysian government officials said yesterday they plan to
delay infrastructure projects, cut subsidies and may start a
 consumption tax , seeking to contain the budget  deficit  and
bolster a shrinking current-account surplus. The central bank
this month cut its economic  growth  forecast for 2013 to between
4.5 percent and 5 percent, from as much as 6 percent previously.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  