-- Aluminum Reaches Three-Week Low on Prospects for Larger Surplus
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-08-30T09:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/aluminum-reaches-three-week-low-on-prospects-for-larger-surplus.html
Aluminum reached a three-week low in
London on prospects for a global surplus of the lightweight
metal to expand. Copper slumped, narrowing the biggest monthly
gain since September.  Supply of aluminum will outpace demand by 994,000 metric
tons this year, above the prior 883,000-ton estimate, said
Shingi Yamagiwa, manager of light-metals trading at  Sumitomo
Corp. (8053)  Orders to withdraw aluminum from stockpiles tracked by the
London Metal Exchange dropped for an eighth week in nine this
week, according to daily bourse data.  “The fundamental outlook remains poor,” Stephen Briggs,
an analyst at BNP Paribas SA in London, said in a report. “It
is hard to see cutbacks being sufficient to significantly erode
excess stocks.”  Aluminum for delivery in three months dropped 1 percent to
$1,816 a ton by 10:26 a.m. on the LME and reached $1,815, the
lowest since Aug. 8. Copper declined 0.2 percent to $7,138 a
ton, trimming August’s gain to 3.8 percent, and the metal for
delivery in December fell 0.3 percent to $3.2495 a pound on the
Comex in  New York .  “Copper-market participants could be taking month-end
profits after the recent run-up in prices and ahead of the
uncertainty from U.S. Fed asset tapering, which is still mostly
expected to start in September,”  Mark Pervan , an analyst at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said in a report.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , a gauge against 10 currencies,
touched a four-week high. A stronger dollar makes commodities
priced in the currency more expensive in terms of other monies.  A copper surplus will widen over the coming year as supply
expands, Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a report. LME stocks of
the metal gained the most in two months to 588,000 tons this
week. Withdrawal orders declined this week for all of the six
main metals traded on the LME except tin, while stocks touched a
record high for nickel and are the highest since 2011 for tin.  Aluminum may be poised to decline about 13 percent after
prices failed to rise above a 200-day moving average, according
to technical analysis by Commerzbank AG.  Tin, zinc, nickel and lead declined in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  