-- Aluminum Industry Seen by JPMorgan Unprofitable on LME Rule
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-08-30T14:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/aluminum-industry-seen-by-jpmorgan-unprofitable-on-lme-proposal.html
Two-thirds of aluminum producers
would be losing money because of lower premiums paid on top of
exchange benchmarks if the world’s biggest metals bourse
approves rules to cut waiting times at its warehouses, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Premiums to obtain the metal will drop 60 percent to about
$100 a metric ton as a result of the new rules the  London  Metal
Exchange is expected to approve in October, Benjamin Defay, an
analyst at the bank in London, wrote in a report e-mailed today.
The LME proposed to oblige warehouses where waits extend for 100
days or more to let more metal out than they take in.  The premium that some U.S. buyers paid to get metal rose to
a record this year even as global output outpaced demand and
 stockpiles  approached 5.5 million tons, enough to supply North
America for 10 months. Consumers led by MillerCoors LLC told a
U.S. Senate hearing last month that some warehouse owners are
using “unfair” LME rules to slow deliveries.  “We estimate about 75 percent of the industry would be
loss making if premia were to fall to $100 a ton versus $250
today,” Defay wrote. “It is plausible that prices fall even
further for a period as the market rebalances.”  An even bigger drop in premiums would make more than 90
percent of the industry unprofitable, which JPMorgan “would not
completely discount,” according to the report. About 60 percent
of the aluminum industry is losing money even with higher
premiums, according to JPMorgan.  LME Proposal  The LME, which monitors more than 700 warehouses, will
introduce the new rules from April 1 if they are approved by the
board in October. U.S. premiums have dropped to the lowest since
December, Laredo, Texas-based researcher  Harbor Intelligence 
says. Metal premiums are added to exchange benchmarks and cover
a purchase of specific quality of metal in a particular
location, reflecting supply and demand on the physical market,
according to Macquarie Group Ltd. in London.  Incentives offered by warehouses to attract metal plunged
87 percent since July, when the LME proposed new rules to speed
up deliveries, according to Harbor.  “We expect this to begin putting pressure on physical
premia as consumers renegotiate terms with producers in coming
months,” Defay wrote.  Aluminum for delivery in three months fell 1.4 percent to
$1,808.50 a ton by 3:02 p.m. on the LME. The metal used in cars
and beverage has declined 13 percent this year, the biggest drop
of the six main metals on the bourse after nickel. Prices
retreated from a record $3,380.15 a ton in 2008.  Lower premiums will probably lead to “much needed supply
discipline,” according to the report. Production cuts will pave
the way for higher aluminum prices, Defay wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  