-- Amerindo’s Vilar, Tanaka Must Be Resentenced, Court Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-08-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/amerindo-founders-vilar-tanaka-must-be-resentenced-court-says.html
Alberto Vilar andGary Tanaka, the
technology investors convicted in 2008 of stealing from clients,
must be resentenced, a federal appeals court in  New York  said.  A three-judge panel of the appeals court, applying a U.S.
Supreme Court case limiting the reach of securities laws to
domestic transactions, sent the case back to the trial judge to
determine what part of the victims’ losses were tied to
securities purchased in the U.S. The court yesterday also
rejected arguments by Vilar and Tanaka, who were partners in New
York-based Amerindo Investment Advisors Inc., that the
convictions should be overturned.  Vilar, 71, an opera lover and former philanthropist, has
about four years remaining on his nine-year sentence. Tanaka,
70, who owned thoroughbred race horses, was born in a U.S.
internment camp for Japanese-American civilians during World War
II. He has about two years to serve on a five-year term. In
October, the two men were released from prison on bail pending
the appeal.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan, who presided over the
trial, determined that the amount of loss caused by the scheme
was $20 million to $50 million. Because federal sentences for
white-collar crimes are often driven by the loss amount, Vilar
and Tanaka may get lower prison terms if they can show part of
it was tied to offshore transactions.  12 Counts  A jury in  Manhattan  convicted Vilar of all 12 criminal
counts against him, including fraud and conspiracy. Tanaka was
convicted of three counts and found not guilty of the remaining
nine counts.  The appeals court declined to consider Vilar’s argument
that the verdict against him should be thrown out because his
lawyer provided ineffective assistance at trial. The court said
Vilar may raise the claim in a petition for a writ of habeas
corpus, a legal procedure used by people convicted of crimes to
challenge the legality of their confinement.  The case is U.S. v. Vilar, 10-04639,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  