-- Ammonium Nitrate Guidelines Issued by U.S. Agencies
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-08-30T22:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/ammonium-nitrate-guidelines-issued-by-u-s-agencies.html
The federal government established
new  guidelines  for the handling and storage of ammonium nitrate,
the fertilizer ingredient and explosive blamed for a fatal blast
in April at a depot in  Texas .  An advisory issued by the Environmental Protection Agency
and other agencies today said companies holding quantities of
the product should ensure it is kept free from contamination
from dust, seeds or oils, and stored in ways to keep it safe
from fire. It also told emergency personnel to avoid getting
close to fires near storage bins.  “If ammonium nitrate is stored safely or if alternatives
are used, explosions could have been prevented in the past and
more explosions could be prevented in the future,” Senator
 Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat, said in a statement
praising the EPA’s advisory.  Fire in the Adair Grain Inc. fertilizer depot in West,
Texas, triggered an explosion of the ammonium nitrate stored
there, federal investigators have concluded, killing 14 people.  Ammonium nitrate was also used by Timothy McVeigh in the
1995 bombing of a government building in  Oklahoma City  that
killed 168, and is responsible for one of the country’s biggest
industrial disasters, the explosion of two cargo ships in  Texas
City , Texas, in 1947.  The advisory issued today is not a federal regulation, and
doesn’t impose legally binding requirements. Among the
guidelines from EPA is that the compound should be stored in
buildings with sprinkler systems and not in the same building
with combustible grains, wood or other flammable materials.  In addition, firefighters who come upon a blaze near
ammonium nitrate should evacuate if fire is engulfing the
facility or they see a brown/orange smoke, according to the
advisory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jon Morgan in Washington at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  