-- AMR, US Airways Fast-Track Trial May See Year-End Ruling
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n ,   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/amr-us-airways-judge-sets-nov-25-for-antitrust-trial.html
American Airlines (AAMRQ)  and  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  may know by the end of the year whether their merger
can proceed after they won a fast-track trial schedule for the
U.S. lawsuit seeking to block the deal.  U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly set a Nov. 25
trial date during a hearing in federal court in Washington
yesterday, saying that the March date proposed by the government
was “too far off.” She urged both sides to be a “lean, mean
machine” in preparing for trial.  “I’m going to set a schedule that enables both parties to
get all of the information that you need to adequately prosecute
or defend the case, but I’m going to do it on an expedited
basis,” Kollar-Kotelly said.  The ruling is a win for the airlines, which had sought a
Nov. 12 trial date and said that waiting until March would put
the merger at risk.  US Airways  rose 1.3 percent to $16.16 in  New
York . American’s parent AMR Corp. gained 4.4 percent to $3.54 in
over-the-counter trading.  “If she sticks to this schedule, I would expect a decision
by year-end,” said Seth Bloom, founder of Bloom Strategic
Counsel PLLC and former general counsel of the Senate Antitrust
Subcommittee, adding that the judge is likely to rule quickly.
“It makes abandonment of the deal less likely.”  More Talks  Rich Parker, a lawyer for US Airways at  O’Melveny & Myers
LLP  in Washington, said yesterday that the airlines are still
interested in having settlement talks with the Justice
Department.  “We put something on that table before we got sued and the
government responded with a complaint not with a counteroffer,”
he said.  Vicki Bryan, an analyst at Gimme Credit LLC in New York,
predicted in a research note following yesterday’s hearing that
the case may not go to trial “since it can and should be
resolved with a negotiated settlement.” If there is a trial,
“we expect the airlines to prevail,” Bryan wrote.  The government and the airlines had hit an impasse over the
trial date. The  Justice Department  had sought a March trial,
while the airlines had pressed for November to resolve the case
that is keeping AMR stuck in bankruptcy.  The government lawsuit causes “serious and needless
uncertainty” over the future structure and business plans of
the two airlines, they said.  Next Hearing  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane, who is overseeing AMR’s
bankruptcy case, delayed approval of its reorganization plan at
a hearing Aug. 29 in  Manhattan , during which he said arguments
in favor of approval were “fairly persuasive.”
He set the next hearing date for Sept. 12. AMR has argued that
the antitrust trial doesn’t need to be completed for its plan to
receive confirmation because the proposal is conditioned on
obtaining regulatory approval and can’t take effect without it.  Lawyers for the airlines said they were pleased with the
trial schedule in a briefing with reporters after the hearing.  “We are very confident that at the end of the day the
judge is going to believe as we do that this is good for the
traveling public,” said Parker, the US Airways lawyer.  Peter Carr , a spokesman for the Justice Department, said in
an e-mail that “we appreciate the court’s careful consideration
of the scheduling issues and will be ready to present our case
on Nov. 25.”  Live Testimony  Lawyers for both sides proposed a 10- to 12-day bench trial
that will involve both live and videotaped testimony. The
carriers told Kollar-Kotelly they are planning to call six live
witnesses, which include airline executives. The government
plans to call to the stand 12 fact witnesses and three experts.  The Justice Department has already collected information
from competitors Delta Air Lines Inc., Southwest Airlines Co.,
JetBlue Airways Corp. and United Continental Holdings Inc. and
intends to gather more, Mark Ryan, a Justice Department lawyer,
said during the hearing.  The government, in arguing for a later trial, pointed to
the case’s complexity, the volume of material that needs to be
exchanged between each side and the potential for the merger to
hurt competition and consumers.  “It’s good for everybody to get it done soon,” said
 Michael Derchin , an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , who recommends buying US Airways shares.
“A delay would have been pretty disastrous. This is a
recognition that time is money, not only in legal fees but
interest on bonds and the uncertainty.”  Stalled Exit  The U.S., joined by six states and the  District of
Columbia , sued the airlines on Aug. 13 to block the merger
arguing the tie-up, which would create the world’s largest
airline, would lessen competition and hurt consumers. The case
upended the merger agreement that came together in February and
stalled American’s exit from  bankruptcy protection . AMR is based
in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , while US Airways is in Tempe,  Arizona .  AMR’s $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible  notes  due in
October 2014 rose 0.625 cent to 100.875 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting service of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. They traded at 116.125
cents on the dollar on Aug. 9.  The antitrust case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).
The bankruptcy case is In re AMR Corp., 11-bk-15463,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  