-- AMR, US Airways Clash With U.S. on Quick Merger Trial
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n ,   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-30T15:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/amr-us-airways-clash-with-u-s-on-quick-merger-trial.html
American Airlines (AAMRQ)  and  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC) , even before they entered court, fought the Justice
Department over when the government’s antitrust lawsuit to block
the airlines’ proposed merger should go to trial.  The Justice Department is seeking a March trial, while the
airlines are pressing for November to resolve the case that is
keeping American parent AMR Corp. stuck in bankruptcy. U.S.
District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly in  Washington  is hearing
arguments from both sides today.  Kollar-Kotelly said a March trial is “too far off.” She
said she is inclined to order an expedited schedule but hasn’t
ruled yet today. She set a status conference for Oct. 1.  Lawyers for the parties are proposing a 10 to 12 day bench
trial that will involve both live and videotaped testimony. The
carriers told Kollar-Kotelly today they are planning to call six
live witnesses, which include airline executives. The government
plans to call to the stand 12 fact witnesses and three experts.  The carriers and the government said in an Aug. 28 filing
that they were at an “impasse.” The airlines say waiting until
March to start the trial would cause “significant harm” and
put their merger at risk. The  Justice Department  said rushing to
try the case isn’t a good idea given its complexity, the volume
of material that needs to be exchanged and the potential for the
merger to hurt competition and consumers.  More Time  “The government is shooting for the farthest-out date to
give them more time to prepare,”  Jeffrey S. Jacobovitz , an
antitrust litigator with Arnall Golden Gregory LLP in Washington
who isn’t involved in the case, said before today’s hearing.
“The airlines have more ammunition to proceed to early trial
and they want to go as soon as possible because their business
is being held up.”  The U.S., joined by six states and the  District of
Columbia , sued the airlines on Aug. 13 to block the tie-up,
which would create the world’s largest airline. The case upended
the merger agreement that came together in February and stalled
AMR’s exit from  bankruptcy protection .  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in  Manhattan  delayed
approval of the company’s reorganization plan at a hearing
yesterday. Lane said arguments in favor of approval were
“fairly persuasive” and set the next hearing for Sept. 12.  Future Structure  With the lawsuit pending, AMR remains in bankruptcy. The
government lawsuit causes “serious and needless uncertainty”
over the future structure and business plans of the two
airlines, the companies said.  “Being in this situation is like being in legal and
business limbo,” said Robert McTamaney, a lawyer at Carter
Ledyard & Milburn LLP in  New York  who isn’t involved in the
case. “You don’t want to take significant actions with respect
to the business because you don’t know whether the business is
going to exist in a combined or separate fashion.”  Prospects for settling the case are slim, according to Seth
Bloom, founder of Bloom Strategic Counsel PLLC and former
general counsel of the Senate Antitrust Subcommittee. “Given
what the Justice Department has alleged in the complaint, with
more than 1,000 city pairs affected, the end of maverick pricing
by  US Airways , and the danger of price increases in ancillary
fees, all of those issues makes this case very difficult to
settle.”  Longer Period  The government proposed a “trial-ready” date of March 3,
a time-frame similar to the one it sought in the 2011 lawsuit to
block  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s acquisition of T-Mobile USA Inc. AT&T
abandoned the deal before the trial was held.  American and Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways proposed a 10-day trial beginning Nov. 12. That would provide a longer period
between the lawsuit’s filing and the start of the trial than
other government merger cases, the companies said.  “Because American is in bankruptcy, time is an issue with
the creditors,”  Michael Derchin , an analyst at CRT Capital
Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a phone interview.
“They want to get paid and they’re sick of waiting,” said
Derchin, who recommends buying US Airways shares.  AMR, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , has been reorganizing in
bankruptcy since November 2011. The merger with US Airways forms
the basis of its plan to pay creditors and exit court
protection.  New Plan  Through yesterday, AMR has fallen 42 percent since Aug. 12,
the day before the Justice Department sued. US Airways fell 15
percent during the same period.  If the merger is successfully blocked, American would
continue operating in bankruptcy and develop a new
reorganization plan. That process would stretch into 2014,
according to  Jack Butler , an attorney for AMR creditors who
helped negotiate the merger.  “The company will have to go back to the drawing board,”
said  Michael Friedman , a lawyer at Richards, Kibbe & Orbe LLP
who isn’t involved in the case. “They’ll have to come up with a
game plan that works, a good rational business plan that would
take them and help them survive as a standalone airline that’s
smaller but still able to compete.”  The antitrust case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).
The bankruptcy case is In re AMR Corp., 11-bk-15463,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in federal court in Washington
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in federal court in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 