-- Laos Bourse to Open Bond Trading, Triple New Stocks to Halt Loss
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-08-30T03:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/laos-bourse-to-open-bond-trading-triple-new-stocks-to-halt-loss.html
Lao Securities Exchange  will start
trading bonds and triple the number of listed companies next
year to raise revenue after posting a loss every year since it
opened in 2011.  The exchange, the second-smallest by market capitalization
among 84 global bourses tracked by Bloomberg, after Swaziland,
plans to begin government bond trading for the first time early
next year, according to Chief Executive Officer Dethphouvang Moularat. It will also expand the number of listed stocks to
six, from two, he said. Laos World Co. Ltd., a trade exhibition
operator, and a state-controlled cement maker are among
companies to join the  Laos Composite Index. (LSXC)   “The exchange will be more aggressive in adding new
products to halt a widening loss,” Dethphouvang said in an
interview in Bangkok yesterday, declining to provide specific
figures. “The bourse’s goal has changed from helping the
country’s economic development at the start to financial
independence now.”  The country of 6.5 million people has about $640 million of
outstanding local-currency government bonds and raised 1.5
billion baht ($46.7 million) in May selling its first baht-denominated bonds to Thai investors. The bourse and regulator
have streamlined the listing approval process and been more
aggressive in persuading domestic companies to list, according
to Dethphouvang. Companies can now apply for the listing to
either the stock exchange or Securities & Exchange Commission,
he said.  Two Stocks  The exchange has two listed companies, state-controlled
lender  Banque Pour Le Commerce Exterieur du Lao Pcl  and power
producer EDL-Generation Pcl, with a combined market
capitalization of $1.14 billion. That compares with the $41.8
billion market in neighboring  Vietnam , where 688 stocks are
listed on the  Ho Chi Minh Stock Exchange (VNINDEX)  and Hanoi Stock
Exchange.  The Laos Composite Index has gained 8.9 percent this year,
compared with an 11 percent slide in the MSCI Southeast Asia
Index, according to a data compiled by Bloomberg.  Laos , Southeast Asia’s smallest economy, needs structural
transformation and economic diversification to create jobs for a
young population and sustain growth, according to the Manila-based  Asian Development Bank . Gross domestic product will expand
7.7 percent this year and next, supported by investments in
hydropower, mining and construction of hotels, offices and
houses, according to the regional lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  