-- Arsenal Wants Real Madrid Trio for $108 Million: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-30T06:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/arsenal-wants-real-madrid-trio-for-108-million-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  70 Million-Pound Spree  Arsenal wants to spend its entire transfer budget of 70
million pounds ($108.5 million) on Real Madrid’s Karim Benzema,
Mesut Ozil and Angel  Di Maria , the  Daily Mail reported .  The Gunners have opened talks with Real officials about
signing the trio and have received encouragement as the Spanish
club seeks funds after committing 86 million pounds to buy
Tottenham Hotspur’s  Gareth Bale , the Mail said.  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  also remains interested in
Newcastle United midfielder Yohan Cabaye and Valencia goalkeeper
Vicente Guaita, the newspaper added.  Alternative Target  Arsenal made an 8.5 million-pound bid for Saint-Etienne
midfielder Josuha Guilavogui as an alternative to Cabaye, the
 Daily Express reported .  Newcastle has also been linked with a move for Guilavogui,
22, if Cabaya leaves before the transfer window closes on Sept.
2, the newspaper added.  Bid Rejected  Everton rejected a new 36 million-pound bid from  Manchester
United  for midfielder Marouane Fellaini and left-back Leighton Baines, the  Guardian reported .  Although Everton is unwilling to sell the pair and
previously rejected a 28 million-pound offer, talks are likely
to continue between United manager David Moyes and Everton
chairman Bill Kenwright over the next few days, the newspaper
added.  Kenwright will demand United pays 50 million pounds for
each player and price them out of Moyes’s reach, the  Daily
Mirror reported .  Torres for Sale  Chelsea is ready to listen to offers for striker  Fernando Torres  after signing Samuel Eto’o, the  Mirror reported .  Teams in Torres’s native Spain are aware of his
availability and the player knows that his chances of being
selected for next year’s  World Cup  could be in jeopardy if he’s
not a first-team regular this season, the newspaper added.  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  