-- Asian Stocks Fall Second Week on Syria Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-08-30T23:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/asian-stocks-fall-second-week-on-syria-concern.html
Asian  stocks  fell for a second week
for the first time since June, on concern the U.S. will attack
Syria in response to the alleged use of chemical weapons by
President Bashar Al-Assad against his own people.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , which gets 83 percent of its revenue
abroad, lost 5 percent in Tokyo as the yen strengthened against
the dollar on the week.  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG)  plunged 28
percent after posting a loss more than three times the market
value of the Australian surfwear maker and saying its core brand
was worthless.  Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN) , controlled by Thailand’s
richest man, gained 2.3 percent in Singapore on plans to spin
off its property business.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slipped 0.9 percent to 130.18,
the first back-to-back weekly loss since the first week of June,
widening its August retreat to 1.6 percent.  “If you get a strike on Syria that would create a lot of
risk for investors,” Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic
 asset allocation  at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages
more than $130 billion, said by phone yesterday. “We’re getting
a correction that the market needs to bring down expectations.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index trades at 12.7 times  estimated
earnings  compared with multiples of 14.8 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 13.6 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Asia-Pacific gauge rose 0.6 percent this year, lagging
a 14.5 percent surge for the  S&P 500 , as growth slows in China
and speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will curb economic
stimulus spurs investors to sell assets across Asia and emerging
markets.  Emerging Markets  Equities across emerging markets in the region led declines
this month as policy makers grappled with slowing economies,
plunging currencies and an accelerating outflow of investor
cash. The Philippine Stock Exchange PSEi Index fell 1.4 percent
while Thailand’s SET Index tumbled 3.3 percent. Indonesia’s
 Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  edged up 0.6 percent.  Australia was the only developed market in the Asia-Pacific
region to post an advance in August, rising 0.4 percent.
Singapore’s Straits Times Index posted the largest decline,
retreating 6 percent. Japan’s Topix index lost 2.3, its fourth
monthly decline and longest losing streak since 2008.  Crude oil soared to a two-year high on Aug. 28, two days
after U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said President  Barack
Obama  will hold the Syrian government accountable for the
“moral obscenity” of using chemical weapons against civilians.
The U.K. parliament has rejected military strikes, leaving Obama
to recalculate the cost of acting in Syria now that the hands of
the main U.S. ally are tied.  Exporters Fall  Japanese exporters declined this week as the yen advanced.
Honda fell 5 percent to 3,545 yen.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Asia’s
largest carmaker, slid 4.5 percent to 5,940 yen. Camera maker
Canon Inc. retreated 2.4 percent to 2,948 yen.  Billabong tumbled 28 percent to 42.5 Australian cents as
the firm said its 40-year-old surf brand was worthless after the
company’s losses tripled amid store closures, firings and a
breach of debt terms. The  Gold Coast , Australia-based maker of
swimwear has closed 158 stores and canceled relationships with
three-quarters of its suppliers.  Fraser & Neave advanced 2.3 percent to S$5.68. The 130-year-old conglomerate will offer stockholders two shares of
property company Frasers Centrepoint Ltd. for every F&N share
held. F&N is spinning off a division with S$9 billion ($7
billion) of assets as of June, allowing both companies to focus
on their separate expansion strategies.  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318)  advanced 1.2 percent to
HK$54.35 after investment income at China’s second-biggest
insurer almost doubled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  