-- Attacking Syria Makes Less Sense Than the Iraq War
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-08-30T17:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/attacking-syria-makes-less-sense-than-iraq-war.html
Watching cable coverage of the
possible military strike on  Syria , my wife noticed a repeated
verbal slip: People kept saying “Saddam” when they meant
“Assad.”  As Secretary of State  John Kerry  pointedly acknowledged in
his speech today, the debate is taking place in the shadow of
the  Iraq  War that started 10 years ago. If we hadn’t invaded
Iraq, chances are that we would be in Syria. Now, though,
opponents of U.S. military action are warning that it could turn
out to be the needless disaster that most people take the Iraq
War to have been. That’s unfair. Kerry’s lengthy defense
notwithstanding, a military campaign in Syria has a lot less
going for it than the invasion of Iraq did.  I count at least six important differences between the two
situations.  First, there’s no clear objective. At least in Iraq, we
knew what our initial goal was: overthrowing  Saddam Hussein ’s
regime. This time, our government is disavowing any such
concrete purpose. We’re instead going to be “punishing” Bashar
al-Assad’s regime or “sending a message” to it. It’s the armed
forces as Western Union. How we will know when the regime has
been punished enough, or the message made unmistakable, is
anyone’s guess.  Second, the national-security rationale for intervention is
weaker in Syria. In Iraq, of course, the national-security
claims turned out to be vastly overstated; the regime didn’t
have the nuclear capacities that Western intelligence agencies
suggested. This time, though, not much of a national-security
argument is even being made. It has been pointed out that the
Syrian regime is an ally of  Iran , but that’s hardly a reason for
an intervention that is not designed to replace the regime with
one friendlier to us. President  Barack Obama  has tried claiming
that Syria’s chemical weapons could be turned against us, but
it’s not clear he has even persuaded himself to worry about
that.  Little Support  Third, we had more international support for the Iraq War
than we would now have in Syria. The U.S. Republican-British
Labour alliance of a decade ago is  not being succeeded  by a U.S.
Democratic-British Tory alliance.  Fourth, the Iraq invasion had public support. Just a few
weeks beforehand, an ABC-Washington Post  poll found  that 59
percent of the public thought we should “move soon to disarm
Iraq and remove Saddam Hussein from power, by war if necessary,
working with countries that are willing to assist, even without
the support of the  United Nations .” Other polls told a similar
story, although some of them found a stronger desire to wait for
UN approval.  By contrast, Reuters-Ipsos polls have consistently found
that a plurality of Americans oppose intervention in Syria even
when the regime’s use of chemical weapons is mentioned. Don’t
mention it, and support drops even lower. The NBC-Wall Street
Journal poll, which  also found  majority support for action
against Iraq in 2003, shows majority opposition to action in
Syria now.  Fifth, a prolonged public debate preceded the Iraq
invasion. President  George W. Bush  and his top officials made
their case for the war repeatedly, and anti-war protesters made
the case against. It was the main subject of debate during the
2002 congressional election campaign. Many people, especially in
retrospect, think that advocates of the Iraq War manipulated the
conversation, but at least it took place. President Obama, in
contrast, has barely discussed the Syrian crisis with the
public. If we take action in Syria, it will be the first time
many Americans learn that it’s even under consideration.  Sixth, Congress authorized the Iraq War in a bipartisan
vote: Two-fifths of  House Democrats  and a majority of  Senate
Democrats  voted for the resolution, along with almost every
Republican. President Obama, according to his spokesman  Jay Carney ,  doesn’t think  he needs congressional approval:
Consultation is enough. It seems highly likely that if Congress
did vote on Syria, a majority wouldn’t back U.S. military
action.  Smaller Commitment  There are some contrasts with the Iraq War, I admit, that
make an attack on Syria look better. Because we wouldn’t be
mobilizing to end the regime, our military commitment would be
smaller and probably our losses as well. It’s also worth noting
that some people are calling for a more robust military
engagement to bring about an eventual change of regime. Some of
the arguments that apply against a limited strike wouldn’t apply
to that course of action.  But bigger intervention would raise objections of its own,
including one learned in Iraq: the danger of state
disintegration. (I’m indebted for this point to David Frum, who
made it on  Twitter .) Supporters of the Iraq War thought we would
just hand over the country’s government to new leaders. What
actually happened -- the state collapsed, and the U.S. had to
pick up the pieces -- didn’t figure in the debate at all. This
time, we ought to know that if military action leads to the end
of Assad’s regime, our limited engagement could quickly expand.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at National Review.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 