-- Aussie Set for 5-Month Drop as U.S. Growth Buoys Taper Prospects
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-08-30T06:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/aussie-set-for-5-month-drop-as-u-s-growth-buoys-taper-prospects.html
Australia ’s dollar is set to close
out its longest monthly losing streak in more than four years,
as U.S. growth added to the case for a reduction in monetary
stimulus that’s boosted asset prices round the world.  The Aussie pared its slide versus the greenback as
technical indicators signal the currency’s decline may have been
too rapid. It stayed lower versus most major peers this week
after data yesterday showed the  U.S. economy  expanded more than
forecast last quarter, boosting bets the  Federal Reserve  will
decrease bond buying next month. New Zealand’s currency held a
monthly decline after building permits dropped.  “A lot of the underperformance in the Aussie and the kiwi
has been a consequence of a stronger  U.S. dollar  against some of
the higher-yielding currencies,” said  Andrew Salter , a currency
strategist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in
Sydney. “There’s been no indication from the Fed or recent data
to suggest that tapering in September is off the cards, so I
think we remain on track to see that.”  The Australian dollar added 0.1 percent to 89.40 U.S. cents
as of 4:43 p.m. in Sydney, paring its decline in August to 0.5
percent, a fifth-straight monthly drop that’s the longest since
the period through November 2008. The local dollar is down 1
percent this week.  New Zealand’s kiwi dollar climbed 0.1 percent to 77.81 U.S.
cents and has fallen 0.3 percent this week. The currency has
dipped 2.5 percent since July 31.  Aussie Bonds  Australia’s  10-year (GACGB10)  government bond yield fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.9 percent. The rate on
sovereign notes due in three years fell two basis points to 2.7
percent. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made
to receive floating rates, was unchanged at 3.41 percent.  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent
annualized rate in the three months through June, up from an
initial estimate of 1.7 percent, Commerce Department figures
showed yesterday. The median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey projected a 2.2 percent gain.  Fed policy makers are debating whether the U.S. economy is
strong enough to let them pare monthly purchases of $85 billion
in Treasuries and mortgage debt. Officials will reduce the
amount at their next meeting on Sept. 17-18, according to 65
percent of economists in an Aug. 9-13 Bloomberg survey.  Technical Rebound  Australia’s currency halted a three-day loss versus its
U.S. counterpart after its 14-day relative strength index
dropped to 38.3 yesterday, toward the 30 level that some traders
see as a sign an asset’s decline may have been too much, too
fast and due to reverse course.  “The Aussie is seeing a short-term rebound as it hits
support around 89.50,” said Desmond Chua, a market analyst at
CMC Markets in  Singapore , referring to a level where there may
be orders to buy. “But fundamentals still point to a lower
currency.”  The Aussie, which dropped to three-year low of 88.48 cents
on Aug. 5, faces losing support from Asia’s central banks that
are draining foreign reserves to defend their own currencies.
International reserves of India and Indonesia have fallen to the
least since 2010, amid a decline to a record for the rupee and a
slide to the weakest since 2009 for the rupiah.  Statistics New Zealand  said today  permits  for dwellings in
the South Pacific nation declined 0.8 percent in July following
a 4.3 percent drop in the previous month. The median projection
among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 1.3 percent
advance.  RBA, Elections  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia is expected to leave its
benchmark at a record low at its next policy meeting on Sept. 3,
 interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The central bank meeting precedes the release of second-quarter  gross domestic product  figures on Sept. 4 and elections
on Sept. 7.  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition leads Prime
Minister  Kevin Rudd ’s Labor party among voters surveyed in a
Newspoll published today in the Australian newspaper.  “These domestic events should prove less powerful drivers
than developments abroad,” Citigroup Inc. strategists including
Josh O’Byrne wrote in a report yesterday. “We continue to
believe that AUD will be vulnerable in the face of widespread
 risk reduction .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  