-- Australia to Trial Viability of Night Test Cricket in February
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-30T02:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/australia-to-trial-viability-of-night-test-cricket-in-february.html
Cricket  Australia  will trial day-night first-class matches in February with the intention of
staging an elite Test under floodlights the following year.  The trial during round nine of the Sheffield Shield will
take place in Adelaide, Brisbane and  Melbourne  using pink balls,
the governing body said today. If successful, more trials will
be scheduled the following season to further test out playing
conditions and equipment with a potential day-night Test being
played between Australia and  New Zealand  in 2015-16.  Cricket Australia is targeting a later start to boost
attendance and broadcast audiences for Test matches, at least
three days of which typically take place on weekdays and outside
prime-time television slots. One-day and Twenty20 matches are
both played under floodlights.  “Cricket can’t afford to sit on its hands and must keep
working hard to ensure Tests remain the most popular form of the
game,” Cricket Australia Chief Executive Officer James Sutherland said in an statement. “We are not proposing all
Tests should be played at night in the long term, however there
are certain venues and times of the year where day-night Test
cricket can potentially enhance and further promote and support
the game.”  The  International Cricket Council  “will take a positive
and flexible view of any proposed amendments to playing
conditions” that would allow teams to trial day-night Test
matches, Sutherland added. The Dubai-based ICC said in October
that participating nations could agree on the timing of the six
hours of scheduled play each day and the precise brand, type and
color of ball used.  Ball Behavior  Finding a suitable ball has been one of the main obstacles
to day-night Tests becoming a reality. Cricket authorities
require a ball that can be seen against the night sky and the
format’s white clothing, while also resisting moisture from dew.  The traditional red ball is not as visible under lights as
it is in the day, while the white ball used in one-day games
doesn’t have the necessary durability.  “We acknowledge that one of the critical aspects is how
the ball wears, behaves and is seen over the course of an
innings,” Sutherland added. “There are also some concerns
about dew on the ground at night. There may need to be some
flexibility and compromise to get to the outcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  