-- Batista’s OGX Posts Record Plunge as Controller Reduces Holding
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-08-30T21:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/batista-s-ogx-posts-record-plunge-as-controller-reduces-holding.html
Eike Batista ’s  OGX Petroleo (OGXP3)  & Gas
Participacoes SA, the  oil company  that Deutsche Bank AG says may
run out of cash next month, fell by a record 40 percent as the
former billionaire sells shares.  In the final half hour of Sao Paulo trading, the shares
tumbled to 30 centavos from 50 centavos in volume that was 4.8
times the three-month average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Brazil’s benchmark equity index rose 0.2 percent.  Batista’s commodities group extended the biggest rout among
major stocks this year as the former billionaire sells shares
and a dispute with Petroliam Nasional Bhd. fuels speculation OGX
is facing an imminent cash crunch. The Rio de Janeiro-based
company lost 63 percent this week, exceeding a decline in early
July when it shelved projects and warned it may cease output at
the only producing oilfield.  The company’s press office in Rio declined to comment in an
e-mailed response to questions on today’s share decline.  Batista’s  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)  slumped 6.5 percent today, while
his shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  rose 1.4 percent and miner  MMX
Mineracao (MMXM3)  & Metalicos SA gained 3.3 percent.  OGX said this week that Petronas has no right to delay
buying stakes in two Brazilian blocks for $850 million after the
Malaysian producer said the deal hinges on OGX undertaking a
debt restructuring. OGX will run out of cash this quarter if it
doesn’t receive the first installment of the Petronas payment,
Deutsche Bank said in Aug. 27.  The company announced this month that it hired Blackstone
Group LP to advise on a study of its capital structure as
Batista raises cash and sells company stakes and assets after
his fortune plummeted on missed production and profit targets.  Batista sold 49.8 million OGX shares Aug. 28, or a 1.54
percent stake, and has shed a 5.67 percent holding since March,
the company said in a regulatory filing yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  