-- Bertelsmann First-Half Profit Rises 5.2% on BMG Takeover
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-08-30T10:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/bertelsmann-first-half-profit-rises-5-2-on-bmg-takeover.html
Bertelsmann  SE, Europe’s biggest
media company, said first-half operating profit rose 5.2 percent
to a record, helped by the assumption of full control of music
publishing-rights venture BMG Rights Management GmbH.  Operating earnings before interest and taxes from
continuing operations increased to 768 million euros ($1.02
billion) from 730 million euros a year earlier, the Guetersloh,
Germany-based company said in a statement today. Revenue fell
1.9 percent to 7.43 billion euros.  Closely held Bertelsmann sold shares in April in
broadcaster RTL Group SA for 1.4 billion euros to help finance
acquisitions targeted at expanding beyond print media and
television channels and becoming less reliant on Europe. In
addition to Bertelsmann’s purchase of the remaining 51 percent
of BMG from partner KKR & Co. in April, the  Random House 
division merged with  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit in July to form
the largest  book publisher  in the U.K. and the U.S.  “The acquisitions need to be digested, so we don’t feel
under pressure for more this year,” Chief Executive Officer
Thomas Rabe told journalists on a conference call. “We’re not
interested in big acquisitions in the billions.”  Revenue and operating profit will rise this year, Chief
Financial Officer Judith Hartmann said in the statement. On an
organic basis, which excludes takeovers, disposals or currency
effects,  growth  will remain stable or slow down slightly.  Double Digits  The average return on sales will “remain in double
digits,” the CFO said. First-half operating Ebit as a
proportion of revenue climbed to 10.3 percent from 9.6 percent a
year earlier.  “Our businesses are performing soundly,” and the first-half figures are “a good foundation for the upcoming revamp of
our company,” Rabe said in a video statement on Bertelsmann’s
website. “The overall environment remains very difficult,
though.”  RTL’s first-half operating Ebit increased 9.4 percent to
545 million euros, the biggest gain among Bertelsmann’s
divisions, as revenue growth at German and Dutch units countered
the effects of declining TV advertising markets across  Europe .  Earnings rose 3.5 percent to 117 million euros at Random
House and 1.2 percent to 86 million euros at the Gruner & Jahr
magazine-publishing business. Profit at the Be Printers offset
and gravure unit plunged 80 percent to 3 million euros as a
large U.K. customer scaled back orders and a recession in
southern Europe resulted in lower volume and price cuts.  Bertelsmann doesn’t plan to cut  jobs  at Be Printers after
shuttering a plant in Itzehoe,  Germany , in 2014, and a sale of
the business isn’t planned, Rabe said on the call. Management at
Gruner & Jahr, which owns Stern and Brigitte magazines in
Germany, will give details about the unit’s reorganization in
coming weeks, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net ;
Weixin Zha in Frankfurt at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  