-- Billionaire Krishnan Seen Reviving Dollar Issues: Asean Credit
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-08-30T08:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/billionaire-krishnan-seen-reviving-dollar-issues-asean-credit.html
Southeast Asian companies are
preparing to resume dollar bond sales next month, after the
slowest issuance in two years, betting the  Federal Reserve  will
provide clarity on plans to taper stimulus.  Bumi Armada Bhd. (BAB) , a Kuala Lumpur-based oilfield services
provider controlled by billionaire T. Ananda Krishnan, announced
on Aug. 13 it will issue up to $1.5 billion of global notes and
 AMMB Holdings Bhd. (AMM) , Malaysia’s fifth-largest lender, said in
July it will sell as much as $2 billion. The yield on  10-year
Treasuries (USGG10YR)  rose 84 basis points to 2.77 percent since May 21,
the day before the Fed said it could scale back debt purchases.  Corporates from  Southeast Asia  have sold $1.2 billion of
dollar bonds since the end of June, set for the worst quarter
since September 2011, after selling $28.7 billion in the first
half, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Mixed messages from the
Fed’s Open Market Committee have seen the  extra yield  investors
demand to hold Asian company notes over Treasuries fluctuate
from 2013’s peak of 330 basis points on June 24 to 285 on July
11 and to 311 on Aug. 29, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
 Asia  Credit Index.  “With the FOMC meeting scheduled for Sept. 17 and 18, all
eyes will be focusing on statements, which may provide some
clarity on the tapering,” Tengku Zafrul Tengku Abdul Aziz,
chief executive officer at Maybank Kim Eng Holdings Ltd., a unit
of  Malaysia ’s largest bank, said in an interview yesterday. “We
expect the dollar market to remain benign ahead of the FOMC
sitting, and any pickup of dollar activities may only happen
after that.”  Flexible Program  The Fed will begin to slow its bond purchases at the Sept.
17-18 meeting, according to 65 percent of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg this month. The U.S. central bank is expected to end
the program, known as quantitative easing, by June of next year,
according to the survey.  Corporate and sovereign dollar securities in Asia have  lost 
0.8 percent this quarter, after dropping 4.3 percent in the
previous three months, the biggest decline since December 2008,
according to the JACI Composite Total Return index.  Krishnan’s Bumi Armada, the world’s fifth-largest floating
production, storage and offloading operator, and AMMB will sell
debt under a euro medium-term note program, which gives issuers
the flexibility to access foreign markets continuously.  “As long as there’s demand, issuers will tap the market,”
Thomas Meow, head of credit markets and banking at Kuala Lumpur-based CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., Southeast Asia’s second-largest
underwriter of company debt this year, said in an Aug. 27
interview. “We see a window of opportunity for dollar bond
sales from September. But the real pick-up will happen next year
as the market needs more time to stabilize.”  Indonesian Measures  International Container Terminal Services Inc. (ICT) , the
 Philippines ’ largest port operator, plans to issue global notes
due 2025 in exchange for securities maturing in 2020, according
to a filing with the Singapore stock exchange on Aug. 23.  Indonesia  is watching the market for a “window of
opportunity” to offer dollar sukuk,  Dahlan Siamat , Islamic
financing director at the  Finance Ministry ’s debt management
office in Jakarta, said in a mobile-phone text message on Aug.
28. The sale may be “close to last year’s size,” which was $1
billion, he said last week.  Bank Indonesia  increased its benchmark  interest rate  by
half a percentage point yesterday in an unscheduled move and
signed an extended swap deal with the  Bank of Japan  valued at
$12 billion, which will allow the two monetary authorities to
borrow from each other’s foreign-exchange reserves.  Default Swaps  The measures were aimed at shoring up the rupiah, which
fell 9.1 percent to 10,920 per dollar this quarter, according to
prices from local banks. That outpaced a 3.7 percent drop in the
ringgit to 3.2834, a 3.4 percent decline in the baht to 32.13
and a 3.1 percent loss for the Philippine peso to 44.605.  Five-year credit-default swaps to insure Indonesian bonds
against non-payment fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 270 in the first four days of the week, according to
data provider CMA. That compares with gains of one basis point
to 152 in  Thailand , and five to 145 in the Philippines, while
Malaysia was unchanged at 150.  “Investors and issuers are likely to wait until there is
more clarity around the Fed’s tapering timetable,” Raj Malhotra,
the Singapore-based head of debt capital markets for Southeast
Asia at Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s largest brokerage, said in
a Aug. 28 e-mail interview. “In the meantime, rates remain
choppy.”  Opportunity Taking  The  yield premium  on Malaysian corporate notes over
Treasuries reached 2013’s peak on June 24 after Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  reaffirmed the week before that bond buying could be
reduced this year and a credit crunch in  China  deterred risk-taking. The gap narrowed 32 basis points to 220 since then,
while a similar spread in Thailand decreased 0.18 percentage
point to 224 and one in the Philippines fell 29 basis points to
231, according to JPMorgan Asia Credit blended spread indexes.  In Indonesia, which posted a record current-account deficit
in the second quarter, the difference widened 39 basis points to
409 over the same period.  “I think this is going to be a year where you get a lot of
opportunity-taking activities as and when the windows open or
close,” Leon Koay, head of global markets at Kuala Lumpur-based
Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Bhd., said in an Aug. 29
interview. “We are very comfortable with our pipeline” of
dollar bonds, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  