-- Bitcoin Exchange Tradehill Pauses for Regulatory Reasons
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-08-30T23:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/bitcoin-exchange-tradehill-pauses-trading-for-regulatory-reasons.html
Tradehill Inc. , an exchange for
virtual currencies such as Bitcoin, is temporarily suspending
trading, citing unspecified banking and regulatory reasons.  “This decision has not been made lightly and we regret
having to take such action,” the company said today on its
website. “However, we embrace the silver lining of our
situation and plan to take this opportunity to upgrade, improve,
and polish our trading platform.”  Tradehill has been seeking more business from investors and
financial institutions as it works to legitimize virtual-currency trading in the U.S. Created four years ago by a person
or group using the name Satoshi Nakamoto, Bitcoin is a virtual
currency that can be used to buy and sell a broad range of items
-- from cupcakes to electronics to illegal narcotics.  The San Francisco-based company is among several upstart
exchanges such as  Mt. Gox  and  BTC-e  that have emerged to support
Bitcoin trading. Jered Kenna, chief executive officer of
Tradehill, didn’t immediately return requests for comment.  Tradehill registered this month with the Financial Crimes
Enforcement Network, a U.S. Treasury agency that targets  money
laundering , the company said in its statement. Steve Hudak, an
agency spokesman, said he couldn’t comment on any regulatory
issues for a specific firm.  FinCEN Guidance  FinCEN, as the Treasury agency is known, released guidance
in March saying digital-currency administrators and exchangers
are considered money-services businesses subject to regulations
and anti-money-laundering controls. The agency, along with other
federal regulators and law-enforcement officials, met this week
to discuss the industry with a trade group, Bitcoin Foundation.  Regulators in Tradehill’s home state have also been
watching virtual currencies. In May, the California Department
of Business Oversight -- then the Department of Financial
Institutions -- issued a cease-and-desist letter to Bitcoin
Foundation to stop money transmission activity without state
approval. The foundation said in a response letter that it
“does not operate a bitcoin exchange and does not sell bitcoin
to consumers.”  Mark Leyes, a spokesman for the California regulator, said
the agency does not discuss its actions regarding specific
firms.  Tradehill told customers last week it would transfer their
accounts to a U.S. credit union to make it easier to complete
transactions. The company said in an e-mail to clients that
customer accounts were being frozen as of Aug. 23 for the move,
and clients who didn’t want to switch to the Internet Archive
Federal Credit Union were offered the option to liquidate their
holdings.  The credit union is also concerned that the regulatory
environment for Bitcoin trading requires greater “clarity,”
according to the firm’s CEO, Jordan Modell.  “Our credit union has worked within the evolving
regulatory environment, which has not always been easy,” Modell
wrote in a  blog post  on his firm’s website. “Until we have
further clarity, we are unable to service some of our corporate
members.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  