-- Bling Began With Golden Bang in Space, Scientists Find
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-08-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/bling-began-with-golden-bang-in-space-scientists-find.html
Those who look to the heavens and
wish for gold may have the right idea, just the wrong timing.  A new scientific look at how elements  heavier than iron  are
formed in the universe suggests that much of the gold on earth
may have floated in space for billions of years after being spat
out in the collision of two neutron stars. It arrived on earth
millions of years ago in meteor showers, researchers said.  The origin of heavy metals like gold has long been a
scientific mystery, said Don Lamb, an astronomer at the
 University of Chicago . Now, astronomers at  Harvard University 
have analyzed a  gamma ray burst  thought to be from a rare
neutron star collision and found it helped seed the universe
with heavy metals, including enough gold to create a pile that
would have about 10 times more mass than the earth’s moon.  “We now have this beautiful set of observations that have
allowed us to peek at what’s going on, despite nature’s apparent
shyness,” Lamb, who wasn’t involved in the research, said in a
telephone interview.  The finding, submitted for publication in  Astrophysical
Journal Letters , came from observing light that took 3.9 billion
years to reach telescopes on the earth’s surface, said  Edo
Berger , an associate professor of astronomy at Harvard in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , who led the research.  The collision studied involved a flash of light that lasted
for less than two-tenths of a second. The Harvard team gathered
its evidence by analyzing an afterglow that occurred when the
heavy metals emitted underwent radioactive decay. Among the
elements ejected were gold, which sold for about $1,408 an ounce
yesterday in  New York , according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
and platinum, which went for about $1,519 an ounce.  Swift Satellite  Berger’s team knew about the explosion after a gamma-ray
burst from the collision was detected on June 3 by  NASA ’s Swift
satellite. Though the initial rays from the blast disappeared
almost immediately, the Harvard team turned the  Hubble Space
Telescope  and  European Southern Observatory’s  Very Large
Telescope in  Chile  to that area of the sky. They saw the
afterglow of infrared light suggesting the presence of
radioactive elements.  “Before this particular paper, we had no idea whether
binary mergers could produce anything,”  Dong Lai , an
astrophysicist at  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York, who
wasn’t involved in the research, said in a telephone interview.
“This is the first time we have observational evidence.”  Extreme Explosions  For Berger, who said he doesn’t wear any gold trinkets
himself, the finding is consistent with a career-long
fascination with things that go bang in the night. Gamma ray
bursts interest him because they’re the most extreme explosions
human beings know about, he said.  “That’s one of the fun things about working in explosive
events, because it turns out the universe has many ways of
producing explosions, more than our imagination can come up
with,” Berger said in a telephone interview.  Four years ago, Berger helped identify the furthest-known
gamma burst in the universe, and he has published research on
how a black hole swallowed a star.  “The general perception that people have of the universe
is that it’s an enormous place where things happen very
slowly,” he said. “But when we look in great detail we realize
the universe is extremely dynamic, and on human time scales. It
changes from one second to the next.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  