-- BOE Seen Maintaining Policy as Carney Assesses Forward Guidance
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-08-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/boe-seen-maintaining-policy-as-carney-assesses-forward-guidance.html
The  Bank of England  will probably
keep its asset-purchase program and benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged next week as Governor  Mark Carney  and officials assess
the impact of the central bank’s forward guidance.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee will keep its
 bond-buying program  at 375 billion pounds ($580 billion),
according to all 37 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Officials will also hold the  key rate  at a record low of 0.5
percent, a separate survey showed.  Carney introduced guidance this month, saying the MPC won’t
consider raising its key rate until  unemployment  falls to 7
percent, something it doesn’t see happening until the end of
2016. Investors have indicated skepticism about that projection
and increased bets on an increase before then, prompting Carney
to say officials are ready to add stimulus if expectations for
higher rates hurt the recovery.  “There are few indications that the MPC is prepared, or
able, to confront more directly the market’s tendency to price
in higher rates,” said  Ross Walker , an economist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in  London . “The scale of the rise in
rates since August does not pose a threat to the recovery, so
the bank has some leeway before the falling unemployment rate
exerts more serious pressure on their desired dovish guidance.”  The MPC will announce the decisions at noon in London on
Sept. 5 after meeting on Sept. 3-4. The meeting was moved
forward to allow Carney to attend the Group of 20 summit on
Sept. 5-6 in  St. Petersburg ,  Russia . Minutes of the decision
showing how officials voted will be published Sept. 18.  Market Expectations  Data this week showed  consumer confidence  rose to the
highest in almost four years in August after the economy grew
0.7 percent in the second quarter.  Short-sterling futures declined this month as investors
increased bets for higher borrowing costs. The implied yield on
the short-sterling contract expiring in December 2014 has risen
19 basis points since July 31 to 0.87 percent.  Walker said there’s a chance the MPC will release a
statement after the decision because to do nothing “would
encourage the view that there is growing hawkish dissent.”
Policy maker  Martin Weale  voted against guidance this month as
he wanted a tougher inflation condition.  “The only interest vis-a-vis Sept. 5 is whether the MPC
publishes a statement and, if so, whether it breaks any new
ground in terms of providing guidance over what the bank would
be prepared to do to address rising market interest rates,”
Walker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  