-- Boehringer’s Respimat Inhaler Meets Safety Goal in Study
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-08-30T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/boehringer-s-respimat-inhaler-meets-safety-goal-in-study.html
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH said the
Respimat smoker’s cough inhaler is as safe and effective as its
older HandiHaler device, in a study intended to assure users
that the new product doesn’t pose a greater risk of death.  Dubbed Tiospir, the company-funded trial followed 17,135
patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD,
for an average of 2.3 years, according to an abstract of the
study results published online today by the  New England Journal
of Medicine . Two groups of patients took Boehringer’s Spiriva
drug at one of two doses from the Respimat mist inhaler. A third
used the HandiHaler, which administers Spiriva in powder form.  The risks of death and of the disease worsening were the
same in the Respimat and HandiHaler groups, the researchers said
in the abstract. Boehringer is certain the study will put to
rest any safety concerns surrounding the Respimat device, said
Klaus Dugi, chief medical officer for the closely held
Ingelheim, Germany-based drugmaker.  “We are convinced it will be absolutely sufficient,” Dugi
said in a telephone interview. “It’s one of the largest trials
ever conducted in COPD.”  A review published in 2011 by the British Medical Journal
had found that Spiriva administered in the Respimat inhaler was
associated with a 52 percent increase in the risk of mortality,
compared with patients given a placebo. Today’s trial didn’t
include a placebo comparison.  Newer Treatments  A sign of more patient deaths on Respimat use in the
Tiospir trial would have wiped out Boehringer as a meaningful
competitor in COPD treatments, as the drugmaker’s newer
medicines for the condition are being tested in the device,
analysts at Barclays Plc wrote in a report to investors before
the results were released.  Sales of Spiriva  climbed  13 percent to 3.6 billion euros
($4.76 billion) last year.  Full results of the trial are scheduled to be presented at
the European Respiratory Society’s annual meeting in Barcelona
on Sept. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  