-- BP Says Accord Can’t Be Approved Unless Dispute Is Fixed
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-08-30T19:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/bp-says-accord-can-t-be-approved-unless-dispute-fixed.html
BP Plc (BP/)  told an appeals court that
its $9.6 billion settlement of economic damages from the 2010
 oil spill  can’t be approved if a dispute over claim payments
isn’t resolved in the company’s favor.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans, at the
urging of lawyers representing victims of the  Gulf of Mexico  oil
spill, “has adopted an interpretation of the settlement
agreement that drastically and improperly expands the definition
of the class” of claimants covered by the agreement, BP’s
lawyers said today in a filing in New Orleans appellate court.  London-based BP has repeatedly sought to rein in the court-appointed claims administrator, Patrick Juneau, over an
interpretation of the settlement that the company claims is
rewarding Gulf Coast businesses that weren’t harmed by the
spill.  This “misinterpretation,” BP argues, has already swollen
the estimated cost of the settlement by almost $2 billion since
the deal was announced in March 2012.  If Juneau’s interpretation “is overturned, this court
should uphold the fairness and adequacy of the settlement
agreement,” BP’s lawyers said in the filing. If Juneau’s
interpretation “were to be affirmed, however, the district
court’s decision certifying the settlement class and approving
the settlement would have to be reversed.”  Company’s Stance  Barbier has repeatedly denied BP’s requests to force Juneau
to adopt an interpretation of the settlement that the company
favors or to suspend payments until the dispute is resolved.  BP’s filing today says Juneau’s interpretation undermines
the legal requirement that class-action, or group, settlements
treat all claimants with the same injuries equally.  The filing was made in an appeal lodged by thousands of
victims who object to the fairness of the settlement and who
also contend the deal treats similar victims differently.  BP’s agreement with the committee of lawyers managing the
spill litigation requires the company to publicly defend its
settlement,  Brent Coon , the lawyer leading the appeal against
the accord, said in a phone interview.  “But they’ve jumped in bed with us,” Coon said of today’s
filing. “They can’t say they’re dumping the deal, but they’re
trying to dump the deal.”  Spill victims’ lawyers oppose BP’s attempt to reinterpret
the agreement. They say the company can’t walk away from the
settlement, even if the court overturns Barbier’s approval.  Agreement’s Terms  “The agreement mandates that BP pay all claims that have
been submitted by the time the Fifth Circuit rules” on the
appeal,  Steve Herman , co-head of the committee of lawyers
representing spill victims, said in an interview, referring to
the  New Orleans  appeals court.  “BP could go into contempt and default and simply stop
paying claims,” he said. “But I think it is fairly unlikely
that a publicly traded company like BP would defy a court order,
especially with the Clean Water Act fines and natural resource
damages claims still hanging over them.”  “BP’s got the money” to pay all the claims, Herman said.
“They’re just whining and complaining like babies who don’t
want to give up their lollipops. Nobody ever heard of a
defendant attacking their own settlement.”  BP said it still supports the settlement if the current
interpretation of claims is reversed.  ‘Reality’ Gone  “Given the misinterpretation of the business economic loss
framework, the settlement has been wrenched from reality and no
longer resembles the deal to which we agreed,”  Geoff Morrell , a
BP spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement responding to a
question on whether the company would walk away from the deal.  “If that misinterpretation is not corrected on appeal,
then, as a matter of law -- simply as a function of the rules
regarding class action settlements -- the settlement could not
be sustained,” he said. “If, however, the settlement agreement
is properly interpreted, the agreement should be deemed fair and
adequate.”  Businesses in five Southern states have received hundreds
of millions of dollars in payments for what BP contends are
“fictitious” losses unrelated to the worst offshore oil spill
in U.S. history, according to BP court filings.  As of July 28, BP had paid $4.2 billion in total
compensation under the economic settlement, according to court
records. In July, the Deepwater Horizon Claims Center paid an
average of $119 million a week for all kinds of claims,
including the disputed business-loss claims.  Judge’s Orders  BP has appealed Barbier’s order limiting the company’s
right to challenge specific economic-damages awards. The judge
has also repeatedly denied the company’s requests to suspend
payments until a probe into potential misconduct at the claims
administration is completed or the interpretation dispute is
resolved.  BP initially valued its economic-loss settlement at
$7.8 billion. The company recently increased its estimate to
$9.6 billion in regulatory filings.  The accord doesn’t cover loss claims by state and local
governments, financial institutions, casinos or companies harmed
by the deep-water drilling moratorium imposed by the Obama
administration after the April 2010 spill.  The case is In Re Deepwater Horizon, 13-30095,  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans). The lower-court
case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the
Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   lcalkins@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 