-- Brazil 6% Second-Quarter Growth Beats Forecast on Investment
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-08-30T17:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/brazil-growth-beats-estimates-by-all-analysts-in-second-quarter.html
Brazil ’s economy  expanded  more than
forecast by all analysts in the second quarter, as government
stimulus propped up investment and a weaker real boosted the
outlook for manufacturing.  Gross domestic product expanded 1.5 percent during the
April to June period, or an annualized 6 percent, the national
statistics agency said today. That was the most since the first
quarter of 2010 and more than all 44 forecasts from analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median estimate was 0.9 percent.
GDP expanded 3.3 percent from the same quarter last year.  President  Dilma Rousseff  has slashed payroll taxes and
boosted subsidized lending to companies in her bid to pull  Latin
America ’s largest economy out of a two-year slowdown ahead of
elections next year. Those efforts are being undermined by
inflation that’s hovering near the 6.5 percent upper limit of
the government’s target range and is forcing the central bank to
raise borrowing costs. The real has declined more than any other
major currency in the past three months, further pressuring
prices.  “Growth is being pushed up by investments and last year we
saw the economy driven by consumption,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist for Banco Mizuho do Brasil SA, said in a phone
interview from  Sao Paulo . “Now we have a better mix of growth.
So yes, the measures had some positive effects on the economy,
but the problem is inflation remains high.”  Raising Forecasts  Following the release of today’s report in Rio de Janeiro,
Bradesco BBI raised its forecast for growth this year to 2.6
percent from 2.2 percent, citing the benefits of a weaker real
and payroll tax breaks for industry. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
played down the performance, saying leading indicators suggest
growth will be virtually flat in the third quarter.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 10.45 percent at 1:38 p.m. local time. The
real, which has declined 11 percent in the past three months,
weakened 0.8 percent to 2.3791 per  U.S. dollar .  The worst is over for Brazil, and improving international
conditions bode well for growth of 4 percent in 2014 and beyond,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters today in Sao
Paulo. Mantega held the government’s 2.5 percent forecast for
2013, adding that second-quarter growth won’t pressure
inflation.  Investment Rates  Today’s GDP data beat analysts’ median forecast for the
first time since the last quarter of 2011. Investment, which
declined last year as Brazil expanded at a quarter of the 3.5
percent pace of the global economy, continued to recover,
jumping 3.6 percent in the second quarter. Despite the rebound,
Brazil still has one of the lowest investment rates of major
 emerging markets  at 18.6 percent of GDP.  “I don’t think in coming months there will be a reversal
in the march of investments, which was the biggest stimulator of
the economy,” Mantega said in a conference call. “The
conditions that brought about that investment increase will
remain: very large reduction of investment costs, reduction of
taxes, low cost of financing, and conditions to expand
investment in coming years.”  Agriculture rose 3.9 percent, while a weaker real helped
industry expand 2 percent and exports jump 6.9 percent.  Rousseff’s government has said manufacturers will get a
boost from the weaker real, after a commodities-fueled rally in
the currency over the past decade eroded industry’s
competitiveness and opened up a flood of imports.  Currency Slide  In the near-term, the slide in the currency is challenging
the central bank’s ability to curtail inflation, which has
remained above the 4.5 percent midpoint of the target range
since Rousseff took office in January 2011, reaching a  20-month
high (BZPIIPCY)  of 6.7 percent in June. Price increases subsided to 6.27
percent in July as food prices declined. Inflation contributed
to a slowdown in household spending, Mantega said.  To curb volatility in the foreign exchange market, the
central bank this month announced a $60 billion intervention
program.  Spending restraint by the government could also help ease
price pressures, though that may prove more difficult with
Rousseff gearing up for an expected re-election run and the
government targeting 4 percent growth, said Daniel Snowden,
emerging-markets analyst at Informa Global Markets. Analysts
surveyed last week by the central bank forecast growth of 2.2
percent this year and 2.4 percent in 2014.  ‘Go Big’  “If they go big, that will help boost growth, but 4
percent is a lot, especially considering the global backdrop is
not massively helpful,” Snowden said by phone from  London .  With private banks restricting credit in the first half of
2013, public lenders stepped up their efforts, disbursing at six
times the rate of their private counterparts. Brazil’s
development bank BNDES lent a record 88 billion reais ($37
billion) over that period, with about two-thirds going to
infrastructure and industry. That will continue as lending
balloons to as much as 190 billion reais this year, BNDES
president  Luciano Coutinho  said Aug. 14.  The government plans three electricity auctions this year
to draw 100 billion reais in investments and also will auction
rights to develop Brazil’s biggest oil discovery in October.  Industry confidence, as measured by the national industry
confederation known as CNI, fell to its lowest level in four
years in July, before rebounding in August.  Consumer confidence ,
as measured by the Getulio Vargas Foundation, did the same.
Mantega said the pick-up in growth in the second quarter will
help boost confidence.  “The second quarter was a bright spot,” Carlos Kawall,
chief economist at Banco J. Safra SA, said by phone from Sao
Paulo before today’s report. “Third quarter will for sure be
weaker, but we have no evidence so far that that the economy has
collapsed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  