-- Cameron Will Survive Syria Setback as Voters See Economy Growing
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-08-30T15:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/cameron-will-survive-syria-setback-as-voters-see-economy-growing.html
David Cameron  will probably survive
a parliamentary defeat over military action in  Syria , as a
burgeoning economic recovery helps his  Conservative Party ’s poll
standings in the runup to the 2015 election.  Thirty Tory rebels joined the Labour opposition to reject
his request to authorize strikes in response to the use of
chemical weapons. While the announcement of the result in the
House of Commons last night drew shouts of “resign” from the
Labour benches, even those Conservatives who voted against the
prime minister were keen to support him today.  “We should pay proper credit to the prime minister; he’s
taken parliament seriously and he’s enabled it to be taken
seriously and that is to his eternal credit,” Crispin Blunt, a
former Tory minister who voted against the Syria proposal, told
the  BBC . Any damage to Cameron’s authority “is a temporary
blip,” Blunt said.  Cameron, who’s worked to persuade other world leaders to
take action over Syria and will now travel to next week’s Group
of 20 summit in  Russia  unable to offer U.K. support for strikes,
faced morning newspaper headlines saying he’d been “humbled”
and “humiliated.” Even so, with the U.K. economy returning to
growth, it may not affect his standing with voters in comparison
with Labour leader  Ed Miliband .  ‘Turned Around’  “People will notice Syria, but it doesn’t affect their
lives,” YouGov Plc analyst  Anthony Wells  said in an interview.
“I’d be surprised if this didn’t have a negative effect on
Cameron, at least in the short term, but the question is how it
affects long-term perceptions of the party leaders. Does it make
Ed Miliband look strong and Cameron look weak? Up to now, the
polls have been going the Conservative way. People think the
economy has turned around.”  Cameron has been closing the gap between his party and
Labour in recent weeks, with a  YouGov poll  carried out Aug. 27-28 showing Labour’s lead at three percentage points, the
narrowest in the series this year.  U.K.  economic growth  accelerated to 0.7 percent in the
second quarter and there are signs that momentum has been
maintained with indexes of services, manufacturing and
construction rising last month.  House prices  are also
increasing.  Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  said this week that
the recovery is showing signs of being “broad-based and set to
continue” even if growth prospects “are solid not stellar.”  Lord North  That helps to explain why there’s no danger of Cameron
having to follow the example of Lord North, who quit as premier
in 1782 after a comparable vote on the American War of
Independence, or of Neville Chamberlain, who resigned in 1940,
after more than 30 of his Tory lawmakers opposed his
government’s conduct of a campaign to recapture  Norway  during
World War II.  Even so, last night’s defeat by 282 votes to 275 is a
further public demonstration of Cameron’s weakness over his
party, and he’s been reminded that he can only pass measures he
can persuade them to support.  Cameron’s party has rebelled against him repeatedly since
he took office in 2010, forcing him to change position on the
European Union budget and then to promise a referendum on
leaving the bloc.  Last year, Tory rebels refused to back the introduction of
elections to the upper House of Lords. Cameron’s Liberal
Democrat coalition partners retaliated by blocking a redrawing
of Commons electoral boundaries that would have removed an
inbuilt bias in favor of the  Labour Party .  ‘Infantile’ Case  Tory lawmaker  Steve Baker , a former Royal Air Force officer
and  supporter of the U.S. Tea Party movement , described the case
for “humanitarian intervention,” which was the basis for the
government’s motion on Syria last night, as “infantile” in a
 post on his website .  In a sign of the pride among rank-and-file lawmakers that
they had blocked Cameron’s plans, Baker also boasted that the
watering-down of the government’s original motion on Syria,
which would have sought approval for immediate strikes, was the
result of action by Tory rebels, not the Labour Party.  Even so, the renewed rebelliousness poses no direct threat
to Cameron’s position, said Phil Cowley, professor of politics
at Nottingham University and author of a book on parliamentary
revolts.  “Any talk of votes of confidence or resignation is
nonsense,” Cowley said in a telephone interview. “The
government will carry on, just a bit more battered and bruised.
The big effect will be on Parliament. They’ve learned they can
say no.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  