-- Canada’s Dollar Declines for Third Week Amid Syria Speculation
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-08-30T21:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/canada-dollar-little-changed-after-economy-expanded-in-quarter.html
The Canadian currency fell for a
third week as the possibility of a U.S. military strike against
 Syria  damped appetite for riskier assets and burnished the haven
appeal of the U.S. dollar.  Canada’s dollar fluctuated as a U.S. intelligence report
concluded with “high confidence” Syria carried out a chemical
attack against its own people, while Secretary of State  John
Kerry  said the U.S. was committed to a “diplomatic process” on
the country. The currency rose earlier today after data showed
Canada’s economy grew more than forecast in the second quarter
even after shrinking in June the most since 2009.  “It would appear the knee-jerk reaction to a Syrian strike
would return to the old risk-off scenario, which is favorable
for the U.S. dollar across the board,”  John Curran , a senior
vice president at CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange
dealer, said by phone from Toronto. “However, if it did occur I
think you’d find people willing to buy Canadian dollars, as oil
would be going stronger.” Oil is Canada’s biggest export.  The loonie, as Canada’s dollar is nicknamed for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, lost 0.4 percent this week
and dropped 2.5 percent this month.  The currency was little changed at C$1.0537 per  U.S. dollar 
at 5 p.m. Toronto time. It earlier touched C$1.0558, the weakest
level since Aug. 23, and strengthened to C$1.0509. One loonie
buys 94.90 U.S. cents.  Net Shorts  Bets by futures traders the Canadian dollar will weaken
versus its U.S. peer  outnumbered  by the most in 10 weeks those
it will gain, data from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers
by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a decline in the
Canadian dollar compared with those on a gain -- so-called net
shorts -- was 24,959 on Aug. 27, the most since June 21.  Implied volatility for three-month options on  Canada ’s
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart increased for the first time
in four days, rising to 7.81 percent, from 7.69 percent
yesterday. The measure is used to set option prices and gauge
the expected pace of currency swings. The average for this year
is 6.8 percent.  Canada’s 10-year government bonds fell today, pushing
yields up one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.61
percent. The price of the benchmark 1.5 percent debt due in June
2023 lost 8 cents to C$90.49.  The nation’s  gross domestic product  expanded 1.7 percent
from April through June, slowing from a 2.2 percent pace from
January through March,  Statistics Canada  reported today in
Ottawa. A Bloomberg survey projected growth of 1.6 percent.  The second quarter ended with a 0.5 percent decline in June
that was the most in a month since March 2009, during the last
recession, the data showed. Economists forecast a 0.4 percent
monthly contraction.  ‘Disappointing Side’  “Data this morning was a little on the disappointing side
overall -- it underscores the fairly slow growth profile we’ve
seen for the first half of the year,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, by phone from
Toronto. “It suggests the handoff to the early part of the
third quarter is still going to be soft.”  The economy of the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner,
expanded 2.5 percent in the second quarter, higher than the
initial estimate, beating a forecast for a 2.2 percent gain, a
report showed yesterday.  The Bank of Canada’s next rate decision is due Sept. 4. The
central bank, which has held the benchmark rate  target  at 1
percent since September 2010 to support the economy, has had a
bias for more than a year toward raising rates.  Bank Forecasts  The bank, in its July  monetary policy report , predicted 1
percent growth in the second quarter, increasing to 3.8 percent
in the third quarter before slowing to 2.5 percent from October
through December.  The U.S. intelligence community’s findings “are as clear
as they are compelling,” Kerry said at the State Department as
the four-page intelligence assessment was released. The document
is part of the case being built by President  Barack Obama  to
justify taking military action against Syrian President Bashar
al-Assad’s government for a chemical attack the U.S. said killed
1,429 people earlier this month in a Damascus suburb.  Obama said in brief remarks at the White House the Syrian
government’s use of chemical weapons is a direct threat to U.S.
and global security, and indicated the U.S. was ready to act to
hold the Assad regime accountable.  France  signaled it might act as the principal U.S. ally in
an attack against Syria, filling a hole left after British
lawmakers pulled the U.K. out of military action.  Crude Oil  Crude oil , Canada’s biggest export, fell for a second day
after the British action reduced prospects of an imminent
assault. Futures on crude climbed Aug. 28 to $112.24 a barrel in
 New York , the highest since May 2011, amid speculation the
turmoil could disrupt the supply of oil from the  Middle East .
They traded today at $107.66, above August’s $106.49 average.  “Rises in  oil prices  due to geopolitical tensions are not
positive for the Canadian dollar,” said  David Watt , chief
economist at the Canadian unit of HSBC Holding Plc., by phone
from Toronto. “Fundamentally driven increases in oil prices are
positive, but when you start getting oil prices driven by non-fundamental factors, Canada starts reacting more like a risk-sensitive security than an oil-producing nation.”  The Canadian dollar lost 1.4 percent in the past month in a
basket of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. Currencies of other
commodity-exporting countries such as Australia, Norway and  New
Zealand  also sank, while the U.S. dollar gained 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  