-- Canadian Workers Pay Price as Companies Skimp on Training
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   L a u r e n   S .   M u r p h y
-- 2013-08-30T14:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/canadian-workers-pay-price-as-companies-skimp-on-training.html
Elizabeth Babcock says it takes
almost three weeks to do a task her U.S. peers can finish in one
day.  A project coordinator at a large international information
company in Toronto, Babcock says she enters data by hand because
she doesn’t have the automated documentation software used by
her counterparts across the border.  “It’s hard enough to do your job when you don’t have the
tools to do your work to the best of your abilities,” Babcock
said, declining to name her employer out of concern about
retribution. The difficulty is “made more clear when people are
doing the same job as you in a different country who do have the
technology.”  Canadians such as Babcock have fallen behind their U.S.
peers in  productivity  in part because employers for years have
spent less on worker training and equipment. Workers may end up
paying the price if companies switch their focus to regaining
competitiveness by spending on new equipment and slowing the
pace of  hiring .  “There will be this pressure to raise productivity,” said
 Paul Ferley , assistant chief economist at Royal  Bank of Canada 
in Toronto in an Aug. 20 telephone interview. This means there
will still be “hiring, but maybe not as aggressively as in the
past.”  Worker output per hour has stagnated. Canada’s labor
productivity  fell  0.9 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier, while the U.S. measure gained 1.2 percent,  Statistics
Canada  said June 7. The agency’s productivity index was 102.0 at
the start of this year, compared with 100.6 at the end of 2005.
Unit labor costs expressed in U.S. dollars have risen to 120.0
from 86.1 over that time.  Priced Out  “We have priced ourselves out of the North American
market,” said  David Dodge , who has spent much of his career
studying productivity as a former Bank of Canada governor and
top finance department official. “We don’t seem to get the
mileage out of our information and communication technology that
the Americans do.”  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has touted the country’s
labor market, saying the country has recovered jobs lost in the
global recession faster than any other Group of Seven country,
including the U.S. That advantage has been reduced, with
employment growth slowing to an average of 6,000 a month so far
this year from 25,900 last year, Statistics Canada figures show.  Gap Narrowed  Canada’s unemployment rate was 7.2 percent in July, with
the U.S. at 7.4 percent.  The gap  has narrowed from a peak of 2.2
points in November 2010. “It’s inevitable” that Canada’s
jobless rate will move higher than the U.S.,  Doug Porter , chief
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said in an Aug. 23
telephone interview. “Job gains are going to be tough to come
by,” Porter said.  Canadian workers had just half as much machinery and
information and communications equipment as their American
counterparts in 2010, Bank of Canada Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem said in an October 2012  speech . The  Conference Board of
Canada  in 2011 found that spending for on-the-job training had
dropped 40 percent since peaking in 1993.  Canadian business investment on machinery and equipment
fell 0.5 percent in the second quarter, Statistics Canada
reported today, after spending was little changed in the
previous period. Industrial machinery and equipment spending
fell 1.2 percent, while outlays on computers and peripherals
dropped 2.3 percent.  Lagging Investment  There’s no shortage of theories about why Canadian
investment and productivity have lagged, including complacency
drawn from the country’s reliance on easy commodity riches.  Bosses with less training than their U.S. peers aren’t
inclined to build their employees’ long-term skills and instead
focus on short-term tasks such as using a particular tool, said
Douglas Williamson, head of the Beacon Group consulting company.  “We have had it very good for very long, and developed bad
habits,” said Williamson, author of “Straight Talk on
Leadership - Solving  Canada ’s Business Crisis.”  Commodity-producing firms have had less incentive to boost
productivity. A surge in  prices  that followed the 2008 financial
crisis led companies to reap profits by boosting production even
with a loss of efficiency, said Philip Cross, researcher at the
Macdonald-Laurier Institute and Statistics Canada’s former head
of economic analysis.  “If the best way to make a buck is investing in a low
productivity area of the economy, that’s what you do,” Cross
said. “Who cares what the price of labor is in  Alberta  if you
are getting $100 per barrel for oil?” The western province of
Alberta is home to most of Canada’s oil deposits -- the world’s
third largest -- most of it in the  oil sands .  Productivity ‘Stinks’  Cross also said Canada’s productivity “stinks to high
heaven,” and is more of a concern for the country’s
manufacturers.  Factory  payrolls  have declined by 23 percent to 1.74
million over the last decade because of competition from
 emerging markets  and the Canadian dollar’s 30 percent
appreciation against the  U.S. dollar .  There is fading enthusiasm for investment that Bank of
Canada Governor Stephen Poloz says must take over from debt-fueled  consumer spending  to drive growth and make Canada more
competitive. The bank’s last quarterly business survey showed 35
percent of executives planned more spending on machinery and
equipment while 26 percent were cutting back, close to the least
optimistic  balance  since a 2009 recession.  Tax Credits  Finance Minister Jim Flaherty has encouraged companies to
boost their competitiveness, offering C$1.4 billion of
investment-tax credits and C$500 million in grants to train
workers in a March budget.  The best tonic for Canada would be a rebound in foreign
demand, says  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at  CIBC World
Markets  in Toronto.  “We will need to see better global growth to spur  capital
spending  and more robust hiring along with it,” he said. “But
it’s difficult to attract that capital spending during a period
where there have been doubts about demand.”  Some of the lack of investment in workers is chronic, said
Babcock, who says she’s fought for two years to get equipment
her U.S. colleagues now take for granted.  “Because the Canadian market is so much smaller than the
U.S. market, the investment to get the tools here seems like a
big investment with not as much of a payout,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren S. Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  