-- Canadian Stocks Little Changed as Consumer Shares Gain
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-08-30T14:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/canadian-stocks-little-changed-as-consumer-shares-gain.html
Canadian  stocks  were little changed
as consumer-staples companies gained while producers of raw-materials and energy tumbled as metal and oil prices fell.  Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc. climbed 5.8 percent after
quarterly earnings beat analysts’ estimates as same-store sales
rose. Alacer Gold Corp. and Iamgold Corp. tumbled more than 2
percent as the precious metal fell on speculation improving U.S.
data will lead the  Federal Reserve  to curb stimulus. BlackBerry
Ltd. fell 1.4 percent after Morgan Stanley said it is holding
off upgrading its employees to its newest smartphones.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 4.02 points,
or less than 0.1 percent, to 12,708.75 at 9:47 a.m. in Toronto.
The index had gained 1.8 percent in  August (SPTSX)  through yesterday
after pairing gains of as much as 2.2 percent earlier this
month.  Canada’s economic growth slowed in the second quarter as
business investment and energy exports declined while consumers
boosted spending. Gross domestic product rose at a 1.7 percent
annualized pace from April to June,  Statistics Canada  said today
in Ottawa, while economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a 1.6
percent rate.  The country’s economy is slowing as its Group of Seven
peers show signs of improvement. U.S. growth quickened to a 2.5
percent pace in the second quarter and the euro-area emerged
from a record six quarters of recession, while U.K. growth
accelerated to 0.7 percent.  Crude oil slid as the prospect of imminent military strikes
on  Syria  receded. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  failed to
gain parliamentary backing for military action and  France 
signaled today it might act as the principal U.S. ally in a
possible strike against Syria in response to alleged use of
chemical weapons.  Gold fell in  New York , trimming a second straight monthly
gain, on speculation improving U.S. data will support the case
for the Federal Reserve to curb stimulus. Minutes of the central
bank’s July meeting released Aug. 21 showed policy makers
supported stimulus cuts this year if the economy improves. The
officials next meet Sept. 17-18.  Investors are also watching the political wrangling over
the approaching limit on U.S. federal spending. The American
government is expected to exhaust its ability to borrow funds in
mid-October, when it will hit the statutory debt limit,
according to an estimate from the Treasury Department.  Canadian  stock exchanges  are  closed  on Sept. 2 for the
Labour Day holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  