-- Canada Banks’ Profits Poised to Rally as Rates Rise
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-08-30T14:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/canada-banks-profits-poised-to-rally-as-rates-rise.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  National
Bank of Canada (NA) , trading  at  record highs after posting earnings
this week that topped analysts’ estimates, are poised to rally
further as rising  interest rates  make mortgages and car loans
more profitable.  Canada’s six biggest lenders had combined profits of C$8.05
billion ($7.6 billion) in the fiscal third quarter, down 1.7
percent from a year earlier, even with net interest margins
close to a four-year low. With borrowing costs rising as the
economy rebounds, bank earnings and share prices should move
higher, according to analysts including Sumit Malhotra at
Macquarie Capital Markets.  “There are signs in the latest quarter of emerging margin
stability for the banks, in part due to the increase in bond
yields,” said Malhotra, in a phone interview yesterday. “While
this stabilization is a start, we think the real benefit for the
group will be seen when short-term rates start to move higher.”  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks Index rose to a
 record  high yesterday after Toronto-Dominion, Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce and Royal  Bank of Canada  reported earnings that
beat estimates. Gains in asset management,  consumer lending  and
 investment banking  drove earnings higher for the Toronto-based
banks, even with depressed margins. The bank index has gained
6.4 percent this year, almost triple the increase for Canada’s
main index.  Laurentian Bank of Canada (LB) , the only Canadian lender to miss
analyst estimates this week, reported a profit decline of 5.7
percent today.  Interest Margin  The average interest margin, or the difference between what
a bank charges for loans and pays out in deposits, was 2.04
percent for the quarter ending July 31, a six basis point
decline from last year. That compares with about 1.9 percent in
2009, a year of record lows for overall bank margins, according
to Scotiabank research.  Executives at Canadian Imperial, Bank of Montreal, National
Bank and Toronto-Dominion said the period of narrowing margins
is over as consumers continue borrowing as rates rise.  The downward pressure on margins is “generally past us,”
Bank of Montreal Chief Executive Officer William Downe, 61, said
in an Aug. 27 telephone interview.  CIBC, which  relied  on Canada for about 87 percent of
revenue last year, reported a margin of 2.63 percent in its
Canadian consumer and business unit in the third quarter, up six
basis points over the same period last year. Margins at TD, BMO,
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , National Bank, and Royal were little
changed.  No Threat  “Right now there’s no real threat to the net interest
margin,” said  Bob Decker , a  fund manager  in Toronto at Aurion
Capital Management, which oversees C$6 billion including bank
shares, in an Aug. 27 interview. “That compression is behind
them.”  Canadian benchmark 10-year bond yields rose to a high for
the year of 2.75 percent on Aug. 21, from a low of 1.67 percent
on May 2. The note rose yesterday, pushing the yield down two
basis points to 2.6 percent.  Rising bonds yields are driving some borrowing costs
higher, even as the Bank of Canada is forecast to maintain its
target rate for overnight loans at 1 percent into 2014,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks including Royal Bank and Toronto-Dominion, the two
largest lenders, have raised  mortgage rates  to reflect higher
yields in the  bond market . The average five-year fixed mortgage
rate rose to 5.3 percent on Aug. 28, from 5.1 percent the week
before, according to the Bank of Canada.  Wider Margins  Spreads for all Canadian lenders will start widening in the
first quarter of 2014, according to  John Aiken , an analyst at
Barclays Plc in Toronto. TD and CIBC will have the highest
exposure to interest rates in 2014 while Royal Bank and National
Bank will have the lowest, he said in a phone interview Aug. 27.  TD’s net margins will improve in 2014 and 2015 as loan
growth will be “well above” the industry average in a rising
rates environment, said RBC Capital Markets analyst Andre-Philippe Hardy, in a note to clients yesterday. He updated his
price target for the company, raising it 12 percent to C$104.  A resilient housing market may also contribute to wider
margins. While economists called for a soft landing in 2013, the
latest housing data points to a healthy industry. In July,
39,195 housing units were sold across the nation, a 9.4 percent
rise from the same period last year. Housing prices continued to
advance, with values up 8.4 percent, according to  Canadian Real
Estate Association .  ‘Chicken Little’  “The whole ‘ Chicken Little ’ scenario affected a lot of
market participants,” Aiken said. “We’re growing confident
that housing will not have a major correction. The market looks
to be in balanced territory which means consumers will continue
to borrow.”  Canadians’ ability to borrow relies on employment, which
data indicates is  stable . The  unemployment rate  declined to 7.1
percent in the second quarter of 2013 from 7.3 percent in the
same period last year, and down from 8.5 percent in September
2009.  “Despite the low interest rate environment you’re seeing
some good volume growth on loans and deposits,”  Tom Lewandowski , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said
in a phone interview yesterday. “If you talked to me 18 months
ago, I would have told you that the Canadian consumer just can’t
continue to borrow as they have. But it isn’t slowing down.”  Consumer Debt  Canadians remain  leveraged  with near record household debt-to-disposable income of 154.3 percent, potentially slowing bank
loan growth in the quarters to come. The country’s economy is
also forecast by economists to grow next year at a slower pace
than the U.S.  “Low interest rates are -- at the short end in particular
-- around for a while,” Colleen Johnston, chief financial
officer at TD, said in a phone interview yesterday. “What that
means is there is fundamental downward pressure -- I’d say it’s
modest. As we get through 2014 in  Canada  and assuming rates
start to rise, you will see margins start to stabilize in my
view and potentially improve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  