-- Canada’s Second-Quarter Growth Slows to 1.7% Pace
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-08-30T13:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/canada-s-second-quarter-growth-slows-to-1-7-pace.html
Canada’s economic growth slowed in
the second quarter as business investment and energy exports
declined, cementing views that the central bank won’t raise
interest rates for at least a year.  Gross domestic product  rose at a 1.7 percent annualized
pace from April to June, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa,
while economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg forecast a 1.6 percent
rate. The quarter ended with a 0.5 percent decline for June that
was the biggest since March 2009, during the last recession.  Canada’s economy is slowing as its Group of Seven peers
show signs of improvement. U.S. growth quickened to a 2.5
percent pace in the second quarter and the euro-area  emerged 
from a record six quarters of recession, while U.K. growth
 accelerated  to 0.7 percent.  Growth will be “choppy” in coming months because of
flooding in  Alberta  and a  Quebec  construction strike during
June, Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz said in a July 17
forecast. Today’s data is the last major report to be used in
deliberations for the central bank’s Sept. 4 interest-rate
decision, and economists say policy makers will keep the
 benchmark  at 1 percent, where it’s been since September 2010.  “The Bank of Canada is likely to be on hold for at least a
year” as growth rebuilds, said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency
strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in Toronto. “The drop quarter
over quarter will be widely attributed to flooding in Alberta
and labor issues in Quebec,” she said, adding that U.S. growth
will help support a Canadian recovery.  Expansion Forecast  The Canadian dollar was little changed at C$1.0531 per U.S.
dollar at 9:50 a.m. in Toronto. It earlier depreciated to
C$1.0550, the weakest since Aug. 23. Two-year bond yields were
unchanged at 1.19 percent.  The central bank forecast expansion at a 1 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, accelerating to 3.8 percent growth
from July to September, aided by the impact of a weaker currency
and growing U.S. orders.  “They will probably have to take that third-quarter
rebound down now,” said  Robert Kavcic , senior economist at Bank
of Montreal in Toronto. “The effect of those special factors
like the flood and the construction strike weren’t as big as
they were expecting,” he said, adding the pace of consumer
spending “probably isn’t too sustainable.”  Consumer spending supported growth by rising at the fastest
pace since the fourth quarter of 2010, with the 3.8 percent
annualized increase led by automobile purchases, Statistics
Canada said.  Company Spending  Business fixed-capital investment fell at a 0.5 percent
pace in the second quarter after a 1.3 percent decline in the
prior three months. Part of the drop stemmed from reduced work
on non-residential buildings during the Quebec strike,
Statistics Canada said.  Export growth fell behind the pace of imports in the second
quarter, with shipments abroad rising 0.9 percent while goods
and services brought in from other countries advanced 1.5
percent. Energy exports fell 6.3 percent.  “The health of the global economy remains somewhat
uncertain,”  ATS Automation Tooling Systems Inc. (ATA)  Chief Executive
Officer Anthony Caputo said on an Aug. 14 earnings call. “In
North America, the recovery is slow, but encouraging, while
Europe and Asia still remain weak.”  Government spending rose at a 2.2 percent pace, while
business inventory accumulation slowed to C$5.10 billion ($4.85
billion) from C$7.78 billion.  Monthly Decline  The agency also said the 0.5 percent  monthly  contraction in
June was led by construction and manufacturing. The wholesale,
retail, and mining and oil and gas industries also decreased
during the month. The decline was larger than the 0.4 percent
median forecast in a  Bloomberg economist survey  with 21
responses. The economy was 0.9 percent larger in June than the
same month a year earlier.  Statistics Canada today also reduced its estimate of the
first quarter expansion to 2.2 percent from 2.5 percent, and
revised down its estimate of the annual increase in May to 1.5
percent from 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  