-- McCain Enlists Business on Immigration Amid Party Rift
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-08-30T13:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/mccain-enlists-business-on-immigration-amid-party-rift.html
Senator  John McCain  is trying to
pressure  Arizona ’s four Republican House members to back broad
changes to U.S. immigration law by getting the state’s most
influential business and religious leaders to do it for him.  The five-term Republican is enlisting their help to
persuade his home-state House members to support the first
significant revision of immigration law in a generation. The
Greater Phoenix Economic Council, the Arizona Restaurant
Association, the state’s banking and small-business trade
groups, and local evangelical and Roman Catholic leaders are
among those McCain met with during a 36-hour Phoenix-area visit
this week.  “My plea to you is to give this the highest priority for
the next several months,” McCain told about a dozen local
business leaders Aug. 28 at the Greater Phoenix Economic
Council. “I would like you to petition our members of Congress
and those 30 percent out there who are still not convinced of
the need for this legislation.”  His push emphasizes how the immigration debate has split
the  Republican Party , as well as the House and the Senate.
Arizona’s four Republican House members -- Paul Gosar, Matt Salmon, Dave Schweikert and Trent Franks -- are among those in
McCain’s party who raise concerns about the plan, with a path to
citizenship for the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants
in the U.S., that the Democratic-controlled Senate passed June
27.  ‘Ground Zero’  McCain, who describes Arizona as “ ground zero ” for the
immigration debate, said that gaining the support of at least
one of his state’s Republican representatives could help change
the minds of other opponents in their party.  “It would be very helpful if they just agreed to sit down
and negotiate with us,” McCain, who turned 77 yesterday, said
during an Aug. 27 interview in his Phoenix office. “All four of
them have been rather quiet.”  House opposition is imperiling the effort to rewrite
immigration policy. McCain, a co-author of the Senate plan, has
dedicated much of this month’s congressional break to activating
business and religious groups, saying they are “pillars” of
the party whose support could change reticent lawmakers’ minds.  “We would like to convince them that this legislation is
necessary for the good of Arizona,” McCain told the business
leaders. He said Republican House members “should respond to
the business interests that we represent.”  Best Position  In many ways, McCain is in the best position to push for
House action among the four Republican senators who, along with
four Democrats, wrote the Senate bill.  His fellow Arizona senator, Jeff Flake, has far less of a
national profile, having joined the Senate in January after
serving six terms in the U.S. House. Florida’s Marco Rubio, who
is contemplating a 2016 presidential run, has been careful not
to alienate  Tea Party  Republicans, who oppose a path to
citizenship. South Carolina’s  Lindsey Graham  is preoccupied with
primary challengers he has drawn for his 2014 re-election race,
in part because of his advocacy of the Senate bill.  At the national level, many Republicans say the party needs
to reconnect with Latino voters after President  Barack Obama  won
71 percent of the Hispanic votes cast in the 2012 presidential
election. That position has caused a rift with the small-government Tea Party faction, many of whom prefer Republican
nominee  Mitt Romney ’s self-deportation approach.  Economic Arguments  To bolster the arguments, McCain urged business leaders to
cite data provided by Amherst, Massachusetts-based Regional
Economic Models Inc. It said the immigration measure
establishing a  citizenship  path and expanding visas would
provide a $5.5 billion boost to Arizona’s economy by 2045 and
increase total personal income for Arizona families by $2.5
billion by 2020.  “There’s a huge economic upside, and securing the border
and regulating the immigrant workforce in Arizona -- and Texas
and  California  -- is key to our economic growth,” Barry Broome,
president of the Greater Phoenix Economic Council, said in an
interview this week.  The group has provided business leaders, mayors and city
council members with data showing how immigration changes would
help stem workforce shortages in sectors like construction.  “What I don’t understand is why Congressman Gosar and
Congressman Schweikert aren’t coming around more quickly on this
issue for us,” Broome said.  Immigration Forum  None of Arizona’s Republican House members have endorsed
the Senate bill, and all have said relatively little about it.
Some people at an Aug. 27 immigration forum in the Phoenix
suburb of Mesa criticized the citizenship path for undocumented
workers.  “Why do they get in when other people have to go through
the regular rules? I don’t think it’s right,” said Helen Henry,
70, who lives near Schweikert in Fountain Hills, Arizona, about
a 30-mile drive from Phoenix. She said undocumented immigrants
in Arizona were straining public resources, including health
care and education.  Holding a placard displaying McCain’s and Flake’s faces and
reading “We don’t care what Americans want! We’re pandering to
illegal aliens and giving away your jobs!,” Henry was among
several dozen protesters at the Aug. 27 event.  “We’re dumbing down our school systems, and we’re not
going to be able to compete at some point because of some of
these things that have happened with allowing all the illegals
in and having to speak their language in the classrooms and all
that,” she said, adding that she hoped Schweikert wouldn’t be
persuaded to support something similar to the Senate proposal.  Border Security  Many  House Republicans , including Speaker  John Boehner  of
 Ohio , have said that the Senate plan doesn’t require strong
enough border security before undocumented immigrants could gain
citizenship.  Republicans “don’t want to be seen as the pro-amnesty
candidate,” while Democrats in swing districts may worry that
supporting immigration-law changes will aid their Republican
opponents in 2014, said  Nathan Gonzales , political editor for
the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in  Washington .  Gosar “believes we need immigration reform, but like many
of his constituents, he will not be sold on promises of future
border enforcement that will never occur,” spokesman Orlando
Watson said in an e-mail.  ‘Clear’ Message  Kristine Michalson, a spokeswoman for Salmon, said in an e-mail that during meetings this month, “the message from his
constituents has been clear: Congress can do better than the
Senate immigration reform bill.”  Schweikert’s and Franks’s offices didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Chris Zaharis, executive vice president at Empire Southwest
LLC, an Arizona-based Caterpillar and John Deere dealership,
said he met with Salmon and Gosar.  They cited political and procedural concerns, “which are a
bit frustrating when you are just trying to make some
progress,” Zaharis said.  Boehner and House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte of
 Virginia  favor a step-by-step approach on immigration.  “We are not going to vote on the Senate bill in the
House,” Representative  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican and
his party’s 2012 vice presidential nominee, said in an Aug. 28
interview.  Push’s Effect  Tamar Jacoby, president of ImmigrationWorks USA, a network
of business groups that favor legal immigration, said it was
“hard to tell” whether the push from business and religious
groups was having an effect with House Republicans.  “The ingredients are still there for the right thing to
happen” though it is too early to “see whether the ingredients
come together,” Jacoby said in an interview.  Tennessee  is the only other state with two Republican
senators --  Lamar Alexander  and  Bob Corker  -- who supported the
Senate bill. As in Arizona, the Republicans in Tennessee’s House
delegation oppose it. Alexander has drawn a primary challenger
with Tea Party backing.  Immigration advocates credit McCain with keeping the issue
visible.  He’s “trying to lead his party out of the wilderness” on
its relationship with Hispanic voters, said  Frank Sharry ,
director of America’s Voice, a Washington group that backs a
path to citizenship. “If they don’t adapt to a changing
America, they will cease to exist as a viable national party.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Phoenix, Arizona  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  