-- McConnell Seeks to Counter Attacks on Women’s Issues
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-08-31T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/mcconnell-seeks-to-counter-attacks-on-women-s-issues.html
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , flanked by female supporters from across his home
state of  Kentucky , predicted that Democrats would rely on gender
politics in their bid to unseat him in next year’s election.  “What you’re going to see by my opponent obviously is the
 Barack Obama  playbook, to try to divide people with gender-based
attacks,” McConnell, 71, said at a Louisville rally yesterday
to introduce “Women for Team Mitch.”  “We’ve seen that all too often,” he said.  The Senate’s top Republican, a prime target for Democrats
in 2014, faces what will almost certainly be a well-funded
general-election opponent -- Kentucky Secretary of State  Alison
Lundergan Grimes , 34 -- if he succeeds in fending off a
challenge in his party’s primary from Matt Bevin, 46, a Tea
Party-backed Louisville investor.  McConnell, a five-term senator and the chamber’s minority
leader since 2007, is trying to minimize the impact of
Democratic accusations that he and other Republican lawmakers
promote policies that are anti-women. The Democratic effort
began last year following a spate of high-profile comments from
Republican candidates that were criticized as sexist and
insensitive to women.  Akin Comment  The most notable example was the claim by Missouri
Republican Senate candidate Todd Akin in August 2012 that
“legitimate rape” rarely results in pregnancy. McConnell was
among the Republicans who called for Akin to leave the race
after his comments. Akin refused and Democratic incumbent  Claire McCaskill , who before his comment had been trailing polls,
defeated him to win a second term.  Obama, in winning a second presidential term in the
November election, benefited from getting 55 percent of the
women’s voted compared with 44 percent for Republican  Mitt Romney , according to exit poll.  The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, in an Aug. 29
e-mailed statement, accused McConnell of “shameful hypocrisy
towards Kentucky women” for starting his “Women for Team
Mitch” effort after his campaign earlier this week touted an
endorsement from former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee , who
backed Akin last year.  A spokeswoman for Grimes, Charly Norton, said an e-mail
yesterday that McConnell’s Louisville gathering “continued to
mislead Kentuckians on his disastrous record on issues important
to women and their families.”  Cabinet Service  McConnell was joined at his event by his wife, former Labor
Secretary Elaine Chao, whom he cited -- along with his late
mother -- as among the women who have had a major influence on
his life.  “From my earliest days, up until my present, I’ve been
inspired by, mentored by, collaborated with an extraordinary
collection of accomplished women,” McConnell said.  Chao, 60, served in her Labor post throughout President
 George W. Bush ’s two terms -- the only one of his Cabinet
members to do so.  McConnell said his mother was unflagging in helping him
overcome his childhood bout with polio, which prevented him from
walking for two years.  Nathan Gonzales , political editor for the nonpartisan
Rothenberg Political Report in  Washington , said McConnell was
wise to enlist his wife as a campaign surrogate because
“Democrats are trying to make a case nationwide that
Republicans are against women.”  “It also shows that he knows he has to run two races at
the same time,” Gonzales said. “He can’t afford to focus on
Bevin for months and then just flip a switch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Louisville, Kentucky at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  