-- Champions League Winner Bayern Beats 10-Man Chelsea in Super Cup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-30T22:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/champions-league-winner-bayern-beats-10-man-chelsea-in-super-cup.html
Bayern Munich tied the match 2-2 in
the 121st minute and defeated 10-man Chelsea on penalty kicks to
win the UEFA Super Cup, European soccer’s traditional curtain
raiser.  All five of Bayern’s penalty takers scored as the Champions
League winners won at Eden Stadium in Prague. Lukaku, the fifth
Chelsea kicker, had his attempt saved by Bayern goalkeeper
Manuel Neuer, sealing the English side’s second consecutive loss
in the Super Cup final.  Bayern’s Javi Martinez tied the game 2-2 to force penalty
kicks after Chelsea’s Eden Hazard scored three minutes into
extra time to give the Europa League winners a one-goal
advantage. Fernando Torres opened the scoring for the Blues in
the eighth minute, and Franck Ribery tied the game for Bayern
two minutes into the second half.  Chelsea’s Ramires was sent off in the 85th minute with the
score tied 1-1 after receiving his second yellow card on a two-footed challenge against Bayern’s Mario Gotze. He was previously
booked in the 64th minute.  Bayern won its fifth Champions League title last season by
beating Borussia Dortmund in an all-German final. Chelsea won
the second-tier Europa League in May.  The game was a rematch of the 2012 Champions League final
in Munich, which Chelsea won in a penalty shootout for its first
European title. That shootout was also decided by Chelsea’s
fifth penalty taker, as Didier Drogba scored to secure the win.  Yesterday’s game was the first time the Super Cup was
played outside of  Monaco , which had hosted the match since it
was established as a one-game meeting between the winners of
Europe’s top two club competitions in 1998. Next year’s game
will be held in Cardiff, Wales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  