-- Chevron Will Bring Real Dollars to Argentina to Invest in Shale
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-08-30T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/chevron-will-bring-real-dollars-to-argentina-to-invest-in-shale.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the world’s second-largest energy company by market value, will invest in Argentine
shale oil and natural gas fields by bringing dollars into the
country and exchanging them at the country’s official rate, said
state-run energy company YPF SA.  In a presentation of the $1.24 billion shale partnership
with Chevron yesterday, YPF Chief Executive Officer Miguel Galuccio said the San Ramon, California-based company won’t use
pesos held in Argentina to fund the investment.  “It is a myth Chevron will use pesos,” Galuccio said.
“Chevron will bring real dollars and will sell those dollars in
the official market.” In Argentina’s illegal street market the
U.S. dollar costs about 9.55 pesos, compared with the official
rate of 5.66.  Chevron’s initial $300 million payment to YPF for wells
drilled will arrive “sooner than people can imagine,”  Ali Moshiri , the head of Latin America, Middle East and  Africa  for
Chevron, said at the same presentation. The remainder is
expected to arrive during the next 10 to 12 months in accordance
with the pace of the shale operations, he said.  Since taking office in 2007, Argentina’s President  Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner  tightened control of the foreign exchange
market by limiting exports, forcing companies to repatriate
money held abroad and banning most purchases of foreign
currency.  Investment Recovery  The YPF-Chevron accord doesn’t contain any price guarantees
or secret clauses and will be governed by U.S. and Argentina
laws and any disputes would go to the International Chamber of
Commerce in Paris for arbitration, YPF said in the presentation.
Chevron would recover the shale investments around the ninth
year of the concession, according to the presentation.  The next step for YPF will be to hammer out a shale gas
joint venture, Galuccio said. Companies in line to sign similar
accords include  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , Bridas Corp., which is a joint
venture between the billionaire Bulgheroni brothers and  China ’s
 CNOOC Ltd. (883)  and Argentine billionaire Eduardo Eurnekian’s
Corporacion America. Galuccio said that a shale deal to produce
in Vaca Muerta’s El Orejano area may be sealed this year. He
also said the memorandum of understanding signed with Bridas has
expired.  Shale Production  Yesterday, the Chevron-YPF venture received final approval
from Argentina’s southwestern province of Neuquen to develop the
Vaca Muerta formation, which holds the world’s second-largest
deposit of recoverable shale gas.  YPF’s plan submitted to Neuquen’s legislature, to which
Bloomberg had direct access, specifies the venture will drill
115 wells expecting output of 11 million barrels of oil in the
first year. After the first stage ends, Chevron will have an
option to continue the accord, which encompasses as much as $16
billion in spending, until 2048.  From the second to 35th year, the venture would drill 1,562
wells to produce 782 million barrels at a rate of 23.7 million
of barrels a year on an investment of $15.4 billion, according
to YPF’s plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  