-- China’s Stock-Index Futures Drop as Oil Prices Slump on Syria
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-30T01:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/china-s-stock-index-futures-drop-as-oil-prices-slump-on-syria.html
China’s stock-index futures  fell as
 oil prices  slumped. Benchmark indexes headed for their biggest
monthly gain since May.  Futures on the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  expiring in September lost 0.5
percent to 2,303.80 as of 9:21 a.m. China Shenhua Energy Co.,
the biggest coal producer, may decline.  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd.  and Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. may advance
after posting higher profits. Everbright Securities Co., whose
trading error sparked the wildest Chinese stock swings in four
years earlier this month, will be suspended.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 0.2 percent to
2,097.23 yesterday. The index has rallied 5.2 percent this
month, the biggest gain among benchmark indexes in Asia, as
reports ranging from industrial production to  money supply 
signaled the economy is stabilizing. That overshadowed the Aug.
16 trading error from Everbright Securities that sparked the
biggest intraday swing for stocks since 2009.  The statistics bureau is scheduled to release results of
its official manufacturing index for this month on Sept. 1. The
reading is estimated to be 50.6, up from the previous month’s
50.3, according to the median estimate of 29 economists. A
preliminary reading by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit’s Purchasing
Managers Index last week was 50.1, resuming expansion from July.
The 50 level divides expansion and contraction.  The CSI 300 Index declined 0.4 percent to 2,318.31
yesterday. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  gained 0.9
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index fell 0.1 percent in
 New York .  Commodities Drop  Trading volumes in the Shanghai index were 30 percent
higher than the 30-day average yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It’s valued at 8.4 times its projected
12-month earnings, compared with the five-year average of 12.7
times, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Crude oil fell from a two-year high and gold retreated the
most in more than two weeks yesterday.  Concern conflict with
 Syria  will disrupt Middle East oil supplies eased as U.K. Prime
Minister David Cameron failed to gain parliamentary backing for
military action.  Bank Profit  ICBC led the nation’s biggest banks in posting faster-than-estimated second-quarter profit growth by containing bad loans
and selling more wealth management products. Second-quarter  net
income  climbed 13 percent to 69.6 billion  yuan , beating the 67.5
billion-yuan median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Bank of China Ltd. , the fourth-biggest,
separately reported a 17 percent profit increase yesterday.  Ping An may be active. The insurer said first-half profit
rose 28 percent from a year earlier as investment income
expanded and earnings from banking operations grew.  Of 219 Shanghai-listed companies that reported first-half
 earnings  that Bloomberg tracks, 101 beat analyst estimates, 105
trailed and the rest were in line.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  led gains in Chinese renewable energy
makers in New York on prospects of increased demand for its
products in Asia. JA Solar Holdings Co., a Shanghai-based maker
of cells, said yesterday that second-quarter shipments beat its
previous forecast, driven by orders from China and Japan. Spot
prices for Polysilicon, a raw material for making solar
products, has increased to a four-month high in the past week,
signaling a rebound.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  