-- China Introduces Subsidy for Solar Plants With Nearby Consumers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-30T11:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/china-introduces-subsidy-for-solar-plants-with-nearby-consumers.html
China  introduced a subsidy for solar
 power plants  where the energy generated is distributed to nearby
consumers as it seeks to reduce strain on electricity networks.  China set a subsidy of 0.42 yuan (7 cents) a kilowatt-hour,
the National Development and Reform Commission, the country’s
top economic planning agency, said today in a  statement .  “The nation is encouraging distributed projects,” Wang Minnan, a Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst, said by phone.
The effect “will be seen in the second half of 2014.”  Networks are struggling with growth in renewable generation
from solar and wind that, unlike coal or atomic plants, leads to
dips and surges in supply depending on the weather. China seeks
to boost domestic solar-panel demand to curb  carbon emissions 
and as markets abroad sag due to weak economies and trade curbs.  China, the biggest solar-panel producer, may add at least 6
gigawatts of the plants in 2013, almost doubling installations
from the level at the end of last year, according to estimates
by BNEF. Projects eligible for the new subsidy will have a
capacity of less than 6 megawatts, the official China National
Radio cited China State Grid Corp. as saying last year.  The country also set the rates solar plants will get for
selling power to grids at as low as 0.9 yuan a kilowatt-hour,
the NDRC said in the statement. That compares with the current
fixed tariff of 1.15  yuan  in  Tibet  and 1 yuan elsewhere. Other
rates announced today are 0.95 yuan a kilowatt-hour and 1 yuan.  Solar farms approved before September and completed this
year will still be eligible for two current preferential power
prices, the NDRC said. It will increase a power surcharge that
subsidizes renewable energy to 0.015 yuan a kilowatt-hour from
0.008 yuan from Sept. 25, according to a separate  statement . It
won’t be raised for residential use and agriculture production.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  