-- China to Start Bond Futures Trading Next Week After 18-Year Halt
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-30T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/china-to-start-bond-futures-trading-next-week-after-18-year-halt.html
China will start trading government
bond futures next week, providing investors with a tool to
manage risk 18 years after the derivatives were suspended
following a probe into alleged market manipulation.  Trading will commence Sept. 6, according to a China
Securities Regulatory Commission statement on its website. The
daily trading limit for the 3 percent five-year note as the
underlying security is set at 2 percent on either side of the
previous day’s settlement price, according to the  China
Financial Futures Exchange  on its website.  The contracts will help China achieve the central bank’s
goal of liberalizing  interest rates  and deepen financial markets
as Premier  Li Keqiang  tackles slowing growth. The People’s Bank
of China in July removed a floor on borrowing costs previously
set at 30 percent below the benchmark, as Li pledged to give
market forces a bigger role. Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said Aug.
19 he’s preparing to free up savings rates.  “The futures will function as a basic tool to manage
volatility,” said Huang Hai, Beijing-based deputy head of the
research department at SDIC CGOG Futures Co., a unit of State
Development & Investment Corp. “As China is trying to
liberalize interest rates, markets can be more volatile, and
such a product is essential for risk management.”  China became Asia’s second-largest government bond market
at the end of 2012, with 7.42 trillion  yuan  ($1.2 trillion) of
notes outstanding, according to the CSRC. The nation began
treasury futures trading in 1992 and stopped it three years
later.  China’s government bond sales were 1.03 trillion yuan in
the first seven months this year, following total issuance of
1.61 trillion yuan in 2012, according to data from ChinaBond,
the government debt clearing house. Maturities range from 91
days to 50 years.  Bond Yields  The yield on  government notes  due 2018 climbed 25 basis
points this month to 3.91 percent on Aug. 29, ChinaBond data
show. The rate touched 3.99 percent on Aug. 20, the highest in
almost a year.  “The futures will help improve  portfolio management ,”
Huang said. “It is also a good hedge, given the expectation for
interest rates to rise.”  China is opening its bond market to foreign investors
through its Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor and
 Renminbi  Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor programs.  QFII allows licensed foreign investment institutions to buy
and sell domestic securities. RQFII, which was approved in
December 2011, allows the Hong Kong units of Chinese financial
companies to raise yuan offshore for investment in domestic
 capital markets . The authorities expanded the program this March
to allow all qualified asset managers incorporated in Hong Kong
to participate.  The CFFEX in Shanghai currently only trades  CSI 300 Index
futures. (IFBA)  The exchange is studying short-term interest rate
futures, the  Securities Times  reported on Aug. 26, citing an
unidentified person.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  