-- China Port Shares Rally on Free-Trade Zone: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-30T07:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/china-port-operators-rally-on-free-trade-zone-shanghai-mover.html
Several Chinese  port  operators
including  Tianjin Port Co. (600717)  rallied by the daily limit on
speculation the government will allow more cities to join
Shanghai in starting free-trade zones to boost their economies.  Tianjin Port jumped 10 percent to close at 7.59  yuan  in
Shanghai trading, the highest level since August 2011. The stock
rose 39 percent this week. Wuhu Port Storage & Transportation
Co., based in Anhui province, and Ningbo Port Co. also gained 10
percent today. The Shanghai Composite Index added 0.1 percent.  Shanghai’s Free-Trade Zone, which was approved by the State
Council last week and may open as early as the end of next month
according to the Shanghai Securities News, is part of Premier  Li
Keqiang ’s drive to shift the economy toward services and sustain
long-term growth.  Tianjin, a port city southeast of Beijing, submitted a plan
to the commerce ministry last month, according to a July 10
report in the 21st Century Business Herald. The southern
province of Guangdong is looking at setting up a zone in its
Nansha new area, the Shanghai Securities News reported July 25,
citing a statement from the local government. The Hengqin
district in Zhuhai city has submitted plans to the provincial
government to create a zone, the  China  Business News reported
today.  “Tianjin submitted an application to the State Council to
set up a free-trade zone similar to the one in  Shanghai ,” said
Gerry Alfonso, a trader at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. “It
is likely that the authorities will approve that request.
Investors are trying to build positions before there is an
announcement.”  Tax Breaks  The zones would likely offer tax incentives to entice more
companies to set up offices and warehouses, said Alfonso. This
will increase the volume of goods transported, he said.  China is boosting efforts to attract foreign companies
after investment from abroad fell last year for the first time
since the global financial crisis. Authorities may alter some
laws and administrative approvals on foreign investment in the
proposed new free trade zones, according to the statement from
the State Council.  Investors are speculating the government will allow more
cities to start free-trade zones because it fits with China’s
new growth model, according to Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund
manager  at Dragon Life Insurance Co.  Provincial Slowdown  Chinese policy makers are trying to bolster domestic
consumption and make the services industry a bigger contributor
to economic growth. Shanghai’s free-trade zone will lure foreign
companies and boost the number of overseas travelers, Citic
Securities Co. wrote in a report dated Aug. 23. The brokerage
recommended buying shares of retail and tourism companies.  Most provinces reported first-half growth below annual
targets that in some instances were already lower than last
year’s goals. Seventeen of 30 provinces and provincial-level
cities said January-to-June expansion trailed 2013 targets,
compared with 14 of 31 in last year’s first half, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg News.  “The concept of a free trade zone is a big breakthrough in
government policy for China, and a free trade zone will raise
the overall international cargo volumes from China,” said Amos Zhang, Shanghai-based analyst at Shenyin & Wanguo. “Investors
are betting on the benefits a free trade zone will bring for
these companies when the cities get approvals.”  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  