-- China Solar Makers See Return of Profits as Margins Rise
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-08-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/china-solar-makers-see-profits-returning-as-margins-swell.html
China ’s top solar-panel makers are
returning to profitability following two years of losses, after
surging Asian demand drove up margins in the second quarter.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co., the largest panel company,
reported gross margin of 11.8 percent in the second quarter, up
from 4.6 percent a year earlier, according to a statement
yesterday. JinkoSolar Holding Co. already is profitable after
its margins doubled to 17.7 percent.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) ’s gross
margin rose to 11.6 percent and the company expects to be
profitable in the fourth quarter.  The panel makers are benefiting from increasing demand in
China and Japan, which are set to become the top two markets
this year. They’re turning out panels at top speed and shipping
at record levels, in contrast to the past two years when a
global glut drove down prices, eating into margins and profits.  The second-quarter results mark “the turning point for the
PV module industry and a return to profitability,” Stefan de
Haan, a solar analyst for IHS Inc. said in an e-mail. “‘The
positive Q2 announcements from several PV manufacturers did not
come as a big surprise given the accelerated growth they have
been seeing in markets such as  Japan , China and the U.S.,
coupled with stabilizing pricing.’’  Asian demand is driving the turnaround. China and Japan may
each deploy more than 9 gigawatts of photovoltaic panels. Global
installations may reach a record 37 gigawatts this year, up more
than 20 percent from 2012, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  Full Factories  That’s boosting factory utilization rates and driving up
prices. Baoding, China-based Yingli expects margins as high as
15 percent in the fourth quarter and it may ship as much as 3.3
gigawatts of panels this year. That will exceed its total annual
production capacity, which will be about 2.4 gigawatts by the
end of this year, according to a conference call yesterday. The
company’s second-quarter loss narrowed 43 percent from a year
earlier to 33 cents an American depositary receipt.  Trina, based in Changzhou, China, said Aug. 20 it expects
to ship as much as 2.4 gigawatts of panels this year, exactly
matching its annual production capacity. Shanghai-based Jinko’s
factories are about 90 percent full now, and the company boosted
its capacity to 1.5 gigawatts a year, which isn’t enough to meet
its 1.7-gigawatt shipment forecast for the year.  The average price of Chinese  solar panels  has rebounded 23
percent this year to 79 cents a watt, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That follows a 64 percent decline in the prior two
years, triggering at least two dozen bankruptcies in Europe and
the U.S.  Solar Profits  The companies that remain are now starting to inch back
toward profitability. Jinko’s net income in the second quarter
was $8 million, its first profit since the third quarter of
2011, as sales surged 43 percent to $287.6 million from a year
earlier. That put the company ‘‘among the first Chinese module
producers to return to net profitability since the downturn,”
Chief Executive Officer Chen Kangping said on an Aug. 14
conference call.  Trina expects to report a profit in the fourth quarter,
according to an Aug. 20 conference call.  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) ,
which is based in Guelph, Ontario, and produces panels in China,
is “on track” to report a profit for this year.  “Returning to profitability for the full year remains our
driving focus in everything we do,” CEO Shawn Qu told analysts
in a Aug. 8 call.  The positive numbers may be based on recognizing revenue
too early, said  Gordon Johnson , an analyst at Axiom Capital
Management Inc. in New York.  ‘Accounting Shenanigans’  “There are accounting shenanigans happening,” he said.
“Yingli and JinkoSolar are recognizing revenue for projects
they haven’t sold in China.”  There’s still a significant production surplus that will
hold back any recovery. Manufacturers have enough capacity to
make about 60 gigawatts of panels, he estimated, more than the
37 gigawatts the world will need this year.  “I think people are getting excited for the wrong
reasons,” he said.  Other analysts expect improved results from the Chinese
solar industry.  Vishal Shah , an analyst with Deutsche Bank AG in
New York, said more large Chinese solar companies will report
profits within the next two to three quarters.  “The supply and demand outlook for the solar sector is
improving,” Shah said in an Aug. 20 research note. Growing
shipments and increased margins “could drive additional
positive earnings momentum as well as share price strength in
the near term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  