-- China to Probe Former Security Chief Zhou Over Graft, SCMP Says
-- B y   J a n e t   O n g   a n d   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e
-- 2013-08-30T05:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/china-to-probe-former-security-chief-zhou-over-graft-scmp-says.html
Chinese Communist Party leaders
agreed to investigate retired Politburo Standing Committee
member Zhou Yongkang on corruption allegations, the  South China
Morning Post  reported, citing people it didn’t identify.  The leaders made the decision because of rising anger
inside the party at the scale of corruption and the vast fortune
amassed by Zhou’s family, the report said. The probe will
examine if Zhou and his family benefited from oil and property
deals facilitated by people including his son, Zhou Bin,
according to the report.  A probe of Zhou would be the first targeting a current or
former Standing Committee member since the 1966-1976 Cultural
Revolution, and would follow the corruption-related trial of
ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai. It may be a sign that
President  Xi Jinping , general secretary of the Communist Party,
is marshaling power as he seeks to push economic reforms.  “Xi is moving early to demonstrate that he can get
anyone,” David Zweig, a professor of political science at  Hong
Kong University  of Science and Technology, said in an e-mail.
“The message is that people better get in step with the new
general secretary.”  Zhou, 70, retired from the Politburo Standing Committee as
part of a leadership handover last year and was considered a Bo
ally, according to the newspaper. While on the job, he oversaw
China’s internal security forces, whose budget of more than $100
billion surpassed that of the military under his tenure.  According to the SCMP report, Zhou worked behind the scenes
last year to have Bo installed as his successor as the top
security official.  Party Conclave  The probe, which may not be officially announced until a
party conclave in November, will focus on Zhou’s time at state-run oil company  China  National Petroleum Corp. as well as his
tenure in Sichuan province, the report said. Zhou was Sichuan’s
party secretary from 1999 to 2002 and served as CNPC’s general
manager from 1996 to 1998, according to his official  biography .  CNPC was told by the government on Aug. 25 that four top
executives were being investigated, in a widening of an anti-corruption campaign begun by Xi when he took over as party
general secretary last year. The executives include three heads
of units at PetroChina Co., CNPC’s Hong Kong-listed subsidiary.  In December, Li Chuncheng, a deputy party secretary in
Sichuan, was put under investigation for “severe violation of
discipline,” the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  Bo’s trial on bribery, abuse-of-power and embezzlement
charges concluded in the eastern Chinese city of Jinan on Aug.
26. He denied the charges and a verdict will be announced at a
later date.  Jiang Zemin , a former president and party general
secretary, backed Xi’s decision to probe Zhou, the SCMP said,
citing people it didn’t identify. Zhou appeared with Bo at a
meeting in March, 2012 at Beijing’s Great Hall of the People and
 praised  his achievements as the top official of southwestern
China’s Chongqing municipality. A week later, Bo was removed
from that post.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janet Ong in  Hong Kong  at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Hong Kong at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  