-- Citigroup Said to Seek Sale of 50 Texas Branches in Rural Areas
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-08-30T16:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/citigroup-said-to-seek-sale-of-50-texas-branches-in-rural-areas.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, may sell half its  Texas  branches as Chief
Executive Officer Michael Corbat refocuses on the biggest urban
areas, three people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The approximately 50 branches holding $2 billion in
 customer deposits  could fetch as much as $50 million, said two
of the people, who asked for anonymity because the sale is
confidential. Most of the outlets are in rural areas in western
Texas, one person said.  Corbat, 53, is looking to cut costs by $900 million this
year and focus on what Citigroup calls the world’s top 150
cities. He’s shutting branches across the U.S. and selling
retail units in countries including Uruguay and Turkey.  “We just want to be focused in certain urban centers and
that includes the U.S.,” Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach 
said in December. “You’re not going to see us opening up
branches in Montana or Tennessee or places like that.”  Andrew Brent, a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup,
said the company declined to comment.  The bank has branches in Texas towns including Odessa,
Abilene and San Angelo, as well as seven outlets in the state
capital of Austin, according to  data  from the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.  Citigroup’s North American consumer-banking unit had 983
branches at the end of June, according to a financial
supplement. The bank had 2,929 branches across Latin America,
Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and lists total
consumer bank deposits of $326.6 billion. San Francisco-based
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  has the most branches of any U.S. bank with
about 6,185 as of March 31.  Bank of America Corp. and HSBC Holdings Plc also have been
getting rid of U.S.  branches  to save money as more customers
bank online.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  