-- Cohen Sees ‘Lose-Lose’ in U.S. Syria Intervention (Transcript)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   R o b i n   M e s z o l y
-- 2013-08-30T20:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/cohen-sees-lose-lose-in-u-s-syria-intervention-transcript-.html
Former Defense Secretary William S. Cohen said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that
President  Barack Obama  must contend with two losing scenarios in
evaluating his options for any U.S. military strike against
 Syria  for its use of chemical weapons.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the program with Bill Cohen, former
defense secretary. Thank you for being with us, Mr. Secretary.  WILLIAM COHEN: Pleasure.  HUNT: You were the defense chief during the U.S. military
strikes against Kosovo in 1999. What are the similarities
between that and the challenges that we face in potential acts
against Syria?  COHEN: Well, the similarities, you have a situation where
Slobodan Milosevic was about to - trying to purge roughly -
ethnically cleanse about a million people. And the notion that
you would tolerate ethnic cleansing at that time was so
abhorrent that we were able to rally the entire NATO
organization to say action must be taken.  Here you have also a dictatorship and a dictator and tyrant
who basically has unleashed what we think - and we’ll have to
prove - chemical weapons upon his own people. And so this
should, in fact, horrify most of the civilized world.  HUNT: Would a military task be more difficult?  COHEN: This task will - well, it was difficult in - in
 Kosovo , but this will be more difficult. You have Russian
systems involved, more sophisticated. You have civilians very
heavily mixed in with the population. They were in Kosovo, as
well, but we had to be very discrete, in terms of the targets
that we hit. You have a region which is potentially engulfed in
conflict, conflagration of countries in the region that you
didn’t have necessarily in the - in Kosovo. So it’s the same,
but it’s different.  HUNT: It’s different. You say - you have said that the
president should go to the United Nations and to Congress. Now,
that would mean a delay of at least two or three weeks, maybe a
month or longer. Does that worry you at all?  COHEN: Not that long. I think, for example, you can go to
the Security Council right now. The Russians want to have a
presentation right now.  HUNT: The dangers of doing both what you described is - is
when you go to the UN, you know what everyone is going to play,
2003,  Iraq . Here we went with great certitude and we were wrong.
That cast doubt on our credibility, to some, at least. And,
secondly, Congress might not go along, Mr. Secretary.  COHEN: It might not. But if you have a - the UN, which we
expect will not go along, because of - of  Russia , at least you
put Russia in the corner saying, “Here’s the evidence.”  HUNT: Right.  COHEN: It’s pretty overwhelming. And now you’re supporting
a country in which they unleashed this kind of terror upon their
own people? It would isolate Russia, certainly. And then the
president would be free to then take action consistent with a
humanitarian type of mission and say, “We tried. We put the
Russians on record.”  Secondly, as far as Congress is concerned, you may not have
to under the War Powers Act get a vote in advance. But it seems
to me, politically speaking, the president would do well to
bring the members of Congress and say, “Look, this is what we
have.”  HUNT: So you’re not saying necessarily a congressional
vote. You just want to have much more consultation.  COHEN: Much more consultation and a much clearer objective
than what we’re seeking to do and understanding that you can’t
just take one shot. You can’t just unload the Tomahawks and say,
“Well, that’s it.”  HUNT: You have to have a mission.  COHEN: “This is a teachable moment.” No, this is not a
teachable moment.  HUNT: But the president said his mission, during his PBS
interview this week, was that he had no interest in any long-term involvement. He says this is not open-ended, but we will
punish Assad enough so he - so he’ll know never to do it again.
Is that a mission?  COHEN: Well, first of all, under the international rules,
you don’t punish. You have to degrade and deter, so that would
be the language that they would use.  The mission itself, it would be limited, but I don’t think
you can limit this mission. I think that there are so many
players involved, I think the Russians would resupply almost
immediately. I think the Iranians would resupply almost
immediately. There’s questions about what the Hezbollah group
would do in - so you have more players involved here.  So you say, well, now we’ve made our point, but it looks,
if it’s too weak, which I suspect it would be, then it’s going
to be dismissed as being feckless. If it’s too strong, then it
achieves what the president doesn’t want to achieve.  But for me, at least, this whole notion - in the past, the
president said, look, I don’t want to get involved, I don’t want
to change the balance on the ground. I’m prepared to provide
limited weapons to - small-arms weapons to the rebels in order
to buy time. My question is, buy time for what?  HUNT: For what?  COHEN: Unless you’re prepared to change the dynamic on the
ground, unless you’re prepared to inflict enough damage that
causes Assad to say, “Hey, we might lose this thing, let’s
negotiate a settlement,” then you’re just asking people to
continue to fight with no hope of ever achieving their
particular goal and more bloodshed, another 100,000 people.  HUNT: Why has the tide seemed to have turned against this
in the last couple days? And I don’t want to exaggerate this,
but the Brits are now delaying. The French seem queasy. The Arab
League says, you know, it’s not going to - it’s not going to get
involved in this.  COHEN: Which was disappointing, by the way.  HUNT: Yeah. I mean, why all that? Is that - does that
reflect on American credibility and standing?  COHEN: I think it has something to do with it. Sure,
there’s still a question about the intelligence. We went with
such convincing evidence, proved to be faulty, so there’s that
lingering doubt. Secondly, you’ve got members of Congress and
the public they represent, the American people, saying,
“Haven’t we been through a trillion in Iraq and a trillion in
 Afghanistan  and now we’re on the road” - well, and we say,
“But it’s very limited.”  But you have unintended consequences. For example, would
the Russians, by moving their ships into the region, possibly
try to interfere with the effectiveness of the mission we might
undertake? We’re talking about launching sophisticated systems
that might be able to be altered in flight. Maybe not. But if
you have a missile that goes in and kills several hundred or a
thousand innocent civilians, what does that do to American
credibility?  So these are all very important issues that the president
has to take into account. It’s not simply a Goldilocks solution:
not too heavy, not too light, just right. Very hard to calibrate
that and then walk away and say, “Well, we taught them a
lesson.”  HUNT: How do you think this is being read in Tehran? And
how will it affect Iranian behavior in the next -  COHEN: Oh, I think the Iranians will do whatever they can
to say that this will - this will redound to the great disaster
of the United States and to  Israel .  HUNT: But what do you think they privately - how do you
think they privately read this?  COHEN: They privately read it that this could, in fact,
take such a heavy toll on Assad that it does change the dynamic
on the ground, it does set a precedent for the United States
taking action against them, conceivably. The real issue is, can
- can the president of the United States persuade the American
people that this is such a heinous act and persuade the
international community they must stand behind this? Or else
it’s going to undermine credibility for the rule of law
internationally, that you can’t go to the UN, because they won’t
act, and if you do it on your own, you’re acting unilaterally,
and so the whole regime of international law will start to
crumble.  HUNT: One other subject. What would you do right now in
 Egypt ?  COHEN: I would - I would not do anything in Egypt. I would
wait to see whether or not the Egyptian military is going to be
able to maintain control.  HUNT: Do you think they will be able to? You know some of
these people.  COHEN: I think they will be able to, at least in the short
term. Whether long-term the Muslim Brotherhood is able to
recalibrate their - their operation and continue to be a force
for - for any kind of endorsement remains to be seen.  HUNT: Just quickly, though, we talk about the rule of law,
and our law seems pretty clear-cut. If there’s a coup - and
there was clearly a coup - then we’re supposed to cut off
military aid. Aren’t we really ignoring our rule of law?  COHEN: We have. As a matter of fact, we’ve decided to place
our interests over our ideals. And we start to play and hedge
with words like this, just as we’re now saying the use of
chemical weapons violates international norms. We didn’t say
international law, because the law gets pretty specific, in
terms of they’re not a party to the chemical weapons treaty, et
cetera. So we’re - we’re playing with words -  HUNT: But you don’t think we should cut off military aid to
Egypt right now?  COHEN: I don’t. I think that we should have maybe a
temporary, you know, suspension for a while, but I would not cut
off, because I think the Egyptian military is going to produce
what is some element of stability, with a hope in the next year
we can get back to a democratic regime.  HUNT: Secretary Bill Cohen, thank you so much for being
with us.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 