-- College Football Powers Seek Leeway to Flex Muscle Through Rules
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-08-30T14:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/college-football-powers-seek-leeway-to-flex-muscle-through-rules.html
College sports’ governing body
probably will consider new rules in the coming months that allow
the most powerful football programs to spend more on their
athletes, while giving poorer programs the option to adopt them.  Commissioners from the biggest conferences have complained
that rules designed to ensure a level playing field across the
125 schools in the top echelon of the sport are unfair to them.  National Collegiate Athletic Association President  Mark Emmert , conference commissioners and athletic directors are
discussing changes that may include costly options such as
paying athletes a stipend of as much as $4,000 a year. Big 12
Commissioner  Bob Bowlsby  said a one-size-fits-all rulebook
doesn’t work when schools in the top division range from  Texas 
with a $163.3 million budget to Louisiana-Monroe at $11.3
million.  “The concept of competitive equity through rules
management is largely a mirage,” Bowlsby said in an interview.
“It hasn’t worked at any level. The majority of the
championships at all levels are won by about 80 schools.”  The college football season began last night, when No. 6
 South Carolina  beat  North Carolina  27-10, and No. 24  Southern
California  topped Hawaii 30-13. Most schools begin play
tomorrow, with No. 1  Alabama  facing  Virginia Tech  in Atlanta,
No. 2 Ohio State hosting Buffalo and No. 3 Oregon hosting
Nicholls State.  Among the type of changes the wealthy schools would
propose, Bowlsby said, might be feeding athletes three meals a
day, what’s known as the training table, up from the current one
meal six days a week.  “It’s an expensive undertaking,” Bowlsby said. “Mid-majors might not want to go to three meals a day, but
restraining those that do isn’t right.”  Lifetime Scholarships  Big Ten Commissioner Jim Delany has said he wants lifetime
scholarships so athletes can return to school to finish their
education after attempts at professional sports careers, and a
year where academically at-risk athletes don’t play, but still
have four years of remaining eligibility.  Ohio State Athletic Director  Gene Smith  said some rules are
silly rather than costly.  In 2005, Smith wanted to put a fence around the parking lot
outside the Woody Hayes Athletic Center to protect players from
entrepreneurs seeking autographs on jerseys and caps, which they
would sell on eBay hours later.  The fence was considered an extra benefit by the  NCAA ,
because it gave the players a private parking lot. Smith says it
took dozens of phone calls over several weeks to convince the
NCAA to let Ohio State build the fence. The school still has to
keep the lot open several hours a day for public access.  It’s the sort of issue that players at less popular
athletic programs probably don’t face, Smith said in an
interview.  $2,000 Stipend  The argument over governance of the biggest football
programs became public two years ago when Emmert proposed giving
scholarship athletes a $2,000 stipend to help pay for living
expenses not covered by their scholarships. Some schools are now
saying it should be as high as $4,000.  While the richer programs could afford the additional
$500,000 to $1 million annual cost, many small programs couldn’t
and voted it down.  Athletic directors at schools outside the major conferences
-- the Big Ten, Big 12, Pac-12, Atlantic Coast and Southeastern  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  