-- Colombia Peso Heads for Weekly Drop on Higher Dollar Purchases
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-08-30T15:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/colombia-peso-heads-for-weekly-drop-on-higher-dollar-purchases.html
Colombia’s peso headed for a third
weekly drop as policy makers increase dollar purchases while
speculation mounts that the  Federal Reserve  will reduce U.S.
stimulus that has buoyed demand for emerging-market assets.  The peso declined 1 percent this week to 1,936.40 per  U.S.
dollar  as of 10:08 a.m. in Bogota. It rose 0.2 percent today.  The currency has fallen 2.4 percent in the past month,
compared with a 4.1 percent drop in Brazil’s real and a 0.9
percent decline in Peru’s sol. While Brazil and Peru are acting
to prop up their currencies, Colombia has increased the amount
of dollars it buys to weaken the peso in the past week, seeking
to reach its target of purchasing at least $2.5 billion from
June to September, said  Banco de Bogota SA (BOGOTA) ’s  Camilo Perez .  “It does stand out that Colombia is the only country in
the region that is taking action” to weaken its currency,
Perez, who is head analyst at the nation’s second-biggest bank,
said in a telephone interview from Bogota. “Lately the central
bank has accelerated its purchases, and it seems to be a
question of credibility, of reaching the target they had
announced.”  Banco de la Republica has purchased an average $38 million
daily this week, up from an average of $29.4 million in the
previous three weeks of August. Brazil on Aug. 22 announced a
$60 billion intervention program in the  currency market , a day
after Peru sold a record $600 million to prop up the sol.  Fed Stimulus  Colombia’s peso and other emerging-market currencies have
weakened since May after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled
the possibility of paring back monthly bond purchases that have
suppressed  interest rates  in developed markets and sent
investors hunting for higher yields in riskier assets.  Colombian policy makers will leave the  overnight lending
rate  unchanged at 3.25 percent today, according to all 29
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The central bank usually
announces its rate decision after the close of the foreign-exchange market at 1 p.m. in Bogota.  The yield on Colombia’s benchmark peso bonds due July 2024
fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 7.02
percent, according to the stock exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  