-- Colombia Holds Interest Rates and Leaves Door Open for Cut
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-08-30T19:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/colombia-leaves-key-rate-near-record-low-as-industry-contracts.html
Colombia  kept its key interest rate
close to a record low for a fifth month as industry contracts
and strikes and protests threaten to disrupt production further.
Some policy makers voted to cut borrowing costs.  Banco de la Republica, led by Governor Jose Dario Uribe,
held its benchmark interest rate at 3.25 percent, as forecast by
all 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The rate has only been
lower once, when it was held at 3 percent between April 2010 and
February 2011.  “ Interest rates  are at a level that stimulate the
economy,” the bank said in its policy statement. “Having
evaluated the balance of risks, without ruling out the
possibility of a reduction in the policy rate, the board
considered it appropriate to hold the rate at 3.25 percent.”  The central bank cut the rate by 2 percentage points in the
nine months through March as inflation slowed to its lowest
level since 1955 and economic growth cooled. Finance Minister
 Mauricio Cardenas , who chairs the bank’s seven-member policy
committee, said a further interest rate cut would help revive
the Andean nation’s industrial sector.  “We said it’s possible that an additional reduction in
interest rates is needed,” Cardenas told reporters in Bogota
after the decision. The nation’s industry “still worries us. We
believe it’s important to stimulate internal demand, and, of
course, a reduction in interest rates is the best way of doing
that.”  Industrial output fell 5.5 percent in June from a year
earlier, its seventh contraction in eight months.  ‘Dovish’ Tone  Today’s more “dovish” tone from the central bank policy
statement will be positive for local peso bonds, said  Andres Pardo , head analyst at Corporacion Financiera Colombiana, or
Corficolombiana.  “The probability that they will cut rates over the next
few months, in the very short term, is higher than it was
before,” Pardo said in a phone interview. “The fact that
inflation is controlled gives the central bank space to have an
expansionary monetary policy.”  Three-month interest rate swaps fell 4 basis points after
the statement, to 3.14 percent.  Police fired tear gas at demonstrators in central Bogota
yesterday, as students and other groups joined anti-government
protests by farmers and truck drivers. Schools were shut, while
city authorities imposed curfews and alcohol bans in some
neighborhoods and the army was deployed to support the police.  Mounting Protests  Coffee growers, dairy farmers and other producers have been
protesting and blocking highways since Aug. 19 over President
 Juan Manuel Santos ’ farm and trade policies. Truckers angered by
high fuel costs have joined the demonstrations.  The unrest will probably curb economic growth this quarter
as consumers rein in spending, said  Camilo Perez , chief
economist at Banco de Bogota.  “All of this social instability that we are living through
will definitely impact  consumer confidence  and in the third
quarter could have an adverse impact on growth,” Perez said
yesterday in a phone interview from Bogota.  Prices of potatoes, onions and other staples have jumped in
wholesale markets since the protests started. Cardenas said the
central bank’s board isn’t worried that the protests will
generate inflation. Farmers’ leaders today agreed to lift their
blockades of highway, even as they continue their protest.  Economic Growth  The economy grew 2.8 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, trailing expansion of 4.1 percent in  Chile  and 4.8
percent in  Peru , while outpacing  Brazil ’s 1.9 percent and
 Mexico ’s 0.8 percent. The central bank last month cut its
forecast for 2013 gross domestic product growth to 4 percent,
from 4.3 percent.  Growth will also be hit by a strike at Drummond Co., the
country’s second-biggest coal producer. The U.S. company’s
Colombian mine, rail and port workers have been on strike since
July 23 in a dispute over pay and conditions, which Drummond
said will probably last until October. Coal is Colombia’s
biggest export after oil.  The annual inflation rate rose to an eight-month high of
2.3 percent this month, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of nine analysts, up from 2.22 percent in July.  In February, annual inflation slowed to 1.83 percent, its
weakest pace since 1955. Colombia targets annual consumer-price
rises of 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  