-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Fell Less Than Forecast in August
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-08-30T14:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/consumer-sentiment-in-u-s-declined-less-than-forecast-in-august.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
dropped in August from a six-year high as  interest rates  rose
and tensions in the  Middle East  intensified.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  final index  of
consumer sentiment for this month fell to 82.1, a four-month
low, from 85.1 in July, which was the highest since July 2007.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey called for 80.5, according to
the median projection after a preliminary reading of 80.0.  Higher mortgage rates are threatening to stall momentum in
the housing market, and turmoil in  Egypt  and the threat of
potential U.S. intervention in  Syria  is raising the specter of
higher fuel prices. Though stocks have dropped this month,
increased personal wealth from rising home values may help to
contain the decline.  “There was a good bounce in confidence a couple of months
ago, and there has probably been a little bit of reversal in the
last couple of months as mortgage rates have risen,”  Jim O’Sullivan , an economist at High Frequency Economics in
Valhalla,  New York  and the top forecaster in Bloomberg data
going back two years, said before the report.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 79 to 85. The
index averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the last
recession that began in December 2007 and 64.2 during the 18-month slump that ended in June 2009.  Other reports today showed consumer spending slowed in July
and business activity picked up in August.  Spending Cools  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, rose 0.1 percent after a revised 0.6 percent
increase the prior month that was larger than previously
estimated, the Commerce Department reported. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of economists called for a 0.3 percent
rise. Incomes climbed 0.1 percent following a 0.3 percent
advance in June.  The  MNI Chicago Report (CHPMINDX)  business barometer rose to 53 in
August from a reading of 52.3 the prior month. Numbers greater
than 50 signal expansion. The median forecast of 53 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was 53.  The Michigan sentiment survey’s current conditions index,
which takes stock of Americans’ view of their personal finances,
declined to 95.2 in August from 98.6 last month. The preliminary
August figure was 91.  The index of expectations six months from now fell to 73.7
this month from 76.5 in July. The preliminary August reading was
72.9.  Other Measures  Confidence measures have diverged this month. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index declined to minus 31.7 for the period
ended Aug. 25, its weakest reading since April 7, from minus
28.8 a week earlier. The gauge has dropped 8.2 points in the
past three weeks, a report yesterday showed.  Meanwhile, the Conference Board’s confidence index
unexpectedly advanced to 81.5 from 81 the prior month, the New
York-based private research group said this week.  Rising  mortgage rates  may be reining in confidence. The
rate on a 30-year fixed loan was at 4.51 percent as of Aug. 29
from a November low of 3.31 percent, according to Freddie Mac
data. New home  sales  dropped to 394,000 last month, the lowest
reading since October, according to Commerce Department data.
Pending home sales declined 1.3 percent in July from the prior
month, the National Association of Realtors reported this week.  Trouble in the Middle East may also have consumers watching
pump prices. Inspectors from the UN are seeking to determine
whether the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad used
chemical weapons in the Ghouta area near Damascus last week.  Middle East  The effects of retaliatory strikes would reverse the “mild
economic stimulus” that has resulted from gasoline prices rising
more slowly during the first six months of 2013 than in recent
years, Deutsche Bank economist  Carl Riccadonna  wrote in an Aug.
27 report.  Job market improvement, meantime, could be making consumers
more confident.  Jobless claims in the week ended Aug. 24 declined by 6,000
to 331,000, according to figures from the Labor Department. The
decrease was in line with the median forecast of 50 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg that called for a drop to 332,000. The
number of applications slumped to a more than five-year low of
322,000 earlier this month, a sign that the labor market
continues to make progress.  Second Quarter  GDP revisions for the second quarter this week showed
 consumer spending  -- which counts for about 70 percent of the
economy -- climbed 1.8 percent, the same as previously reported,
propelled by gains in durable goods such as furniture and
appliances. That followed a 2.3 percent increase from January
through March. Purchases added 1.2 percentage points to growth.  “We are pleased with how our customer traffic improved
this quarter even as broader market trends indicate the consumer
behavior was somewhat subdued,” Craig Carlock, chief executive
officer of Greensboro-based Fresh Market Inc., said in an August
28 earnings call. “Our promotional execution drove incremental
traffic.”  Bon-Ton Stores Inc., a department store chain based in
York,  Pennsylvania , had a less-upbeat take on the state of the
consumer.  “We believe the adverse impact of inclement weather,
higher  gas prices  and higher taxes coupled with an unfavorable
shift in  consumer spending  patterns contributed to the overall
sales weakness,” chief executive officer Brendan L. Hoffman
said in an August 22 second-quarter earnings call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  