-- Credit Crunch Risks Blackouts as Projects on Hold: Poland Credit
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-08-30T07:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/credit-crunch-risks-blackouts-as-projects-on-hold-poland-credit.html
Poland ’s push to avoid electricity
blackouts by developing more than $5 billion of new power plants
is at risk as the companies chosen to build them struggle to
secure financing after a record bankruptcy.  The cost for builders to sell debt has doubled in the last
year to at least 800 basis points above the  Warsaw interbank
offered rate , according to money manager KBC TFI SA in Warsaw.
That corresponded to a yield of 10.7 percent yesterday, compared
with 2.67 percent on 2018 Eurobonds issued by  Ferrovial SA (FER) , the
Spanish owner of Poland’s biggest builder Budimex SA, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Poland may face power shortages as early as 2016 as
utilities must replace aging, inefficient plants to meet
European Union emissions laws, the  Economy Ministry  said July
30. PGE SA and Tauron Polska Energia SA, the nation’s two
biggest utilities, have delayed investments, citing financing
difficulties for builders after the 2012 bankruptcy of PBG SA,
then the country’s third-largest construction company.  “Practically no financial institution wants to fund
builders because of the very high risks,” Pawel Borys, head of
strategy at PKO Bank Polski SA, the country’s largest lender,
said Aug. 23 in Warsaw. “The industry is decimated after road
investment” projects turned unprofitable, he said.  Shrinking Share  PKO’s lending to builders made up 11.4 percent of its
corporate loan portfolio in June, down from 12.2 percent a year
earlier, according to its website. Construction-industry loans
by Bank Pekao SA, Poland’s second-biggest lender, fell to 7.2
percent of its  portfolio  in 2012 from 8.4 percent in 2011.  PBG’s 825 million-zloty ($250 million) default, sparked by
losses on highway contracts, preceeded December’s bailout of
Polimex-Mostostal SA, the nation’s second-biggest builder.
Polimex failed to pay interest on debt again in June. Creditors
agreed not to block its access to funding until Sept. 30.  The company said three days ago that it’s close to agreeing
a “financial package” that would boost liquidity.  The industry’s “troubles” mean that, as well as facing an
800 basis-point spread to sell debt, construction company bonds
must be secured and are more likely to attract funds that accept
higher risk, KBC’s Dariusz Kusmider, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $1.47 billion, said yesterday by phone.  Bank Guarantees  PGE this month gave Polimex, Mostostal Warszawa SA and
Rafako SA, a unit of PBG, an additional 120 days to get bank
guarantees needed to start building an 11.6 billion-zloty power
plant in Opole. The builders said Aug. 14 that they’re in talks
with PKO over financing.  Tauron extended until the end of September a deadline for
Rafako and Mostostal to secure guarantees for its 5.4 billion-zloty Jaworzno project.  Opole and Jaworzno account for about a half of power plants
that Polish utilities plan to add in 2018 and 2019, according to
the Economy Ministry’s July report. Without them, the power
shortages that Poland may experience in 2016 and 2017 will
worsen in the following years.  Some builders are getting assistance from abroad. Rafako’s
Chinese partner is helping it obtain guarantees from an EU-based
bank, Jacek Balcer, a spokesman for Rafako, said two days ago,
calling it “practically impossible” to get them in Poland.
Companies invited  France ’s  Alstom SA (ALO) , the world’s third-largest
power-equipment maker, to work with them at Opole.  ‘Welcome’ Help  “The situation of builders is a significant risk,”
Wojciech Ostrowski, the chief financial officer of PGE, said
Aug. 28 in Warsaw. “We try to find somebody to support them.
All help is welcome.”  The zloty strengthened 0.2 percent to 4.2739 per euro as of
9:22 a.m. today in Warsaw, trimming its 2013 drop to 4.5
percent. The extra yield to hold Polish  dollar bonds  rather than
Treasuries fell three basis points to 165, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes show. The spread between Polish 10-year government bonds
in zloty and their German equivalents in euros widened one basis
point to 264.  The times when construction companies could “easily” sell
bonds under “reasonable” conditions are gone, according to
Krzysztof Koziol, a spokesman for Budimex.  “The cost of a short-term loan is much higher today than
it was in 2012,” he said Aug. 28 by e-mail. “Thanks to our
market position we have access to funding but it’s a lot harder
to get it, especially if the financing is unsecured.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  