-- Danish Economy Expands More Than Estimated as Exports Gain
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-08-30T12:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/danish-economy-expands-more-than-estimated-as-exports-advance.html
Denmark ’s economy expanded more than
estimated in the second quarter, emerging from a recession, as
exports rose after the euro area returned to growth.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.5 percent from the first
three months of 2013, Copenhagen-based  Statistics Denmark  said
today. GDP was seen growing 0.2 percent in a Bloomberg survey of
five economists. The economy expanded an annual 0.4 percent.
First-quarter GDP shrank a revised 0.2 percent, versus unchanged
earlier, after a 0.7 percent contraction in the fourth quarter.  Denmark this week lowered its growth forecasts while
predicting wider deficits. Finance Minister Bjarne Corydon said
that the government will need to keep welfare spending in check
even as the AAA nation has lowered taxes and announced
investment measures to support an expansion.  “The numbers were a surprise and the biggest one was how
much exports climbed,” said  Steen Bocian , chief economist at
Copenhagen-based  Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE)  “The euro area coming out of
recession this quarter played a big part while the developed
markets improving globally also helps.”  The country is struggling to emerge from a burst property
bubble in 2008 that triggered a banking crisis and wiped out
more than a dozen lenders. The $320 billion economy, home to
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, has also been buffeted by the debt
crisis in the euro area, which emerged from its longest
recession in the second quarter.  Forecast Cut  Denmark cut its economic forecast for growth to 0.2 percent
in 2013 from a 0.5 percent estimate.  Government spending , which
accounts for 19 percent of the total output in the second
quarter, rose 0.7 percent, after slipping a revised 2.8 percent
in the first three months, the statistics office said today.
Private spending was unchanged while exports gained 1.8 percent.  Economists at Nordea Bank AB, Jyske Bank AB and  Sydbank (SYDB)  A/S
said growth would have been stronger had it not been for a four-week lockout of teachers that forced thousands of working
parents to stay at home in the last quarter  “The reasons growth surprises today are improvements in
Danish competitiveness and in overseas economies,” Peter Bojsen
Jakobsen, an economist at Sydbank, said in a note. “Today’s
numbers seem rock solid. Still, private consumption is
stalling.”  Spread Widens  Investors exiting the euro area last year bought up Danish
bonds, rewarding the government for keeping its debt load at
less than half the euro-zone average. The yield on Denmark’s
benchmark 10-year bond traded at about 2.05 percent today,
compared with 1.85 percent on similar-maturity German bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The difference in yield between 10-year danish debt and
similar maturity German bonds grew to its widest in at least a
year, and traded at 20 basis points as of 2:35 p.m. in
Copenhagen, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The momentum in the Danish economy is pointing to better
days and growth rates improving,” Helge Pedersen, a Copenhagen-based chief economist at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , said in an interview
yesterday. “Though it won’t really show until later in the year
and into 2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  