-- Danone Says China Recalls Hurt Baby-Nutrition Sales in Asia
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-08-30T09:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/danone-says-recalls-had-impact-on-baby-nutrition-sales-in-asia.html
Danone (BN)  said baby-nutrition sales
will fall in the third quarter because it recalled infant-formula products in Asia after a warning of tainted ingredients
in some products supplied by Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.  The recalls had a “significant” impact on sales in the
region, though Danone still expects to post organic revenue
growth of about 5 percent in the quarter, it said today.  “We are deploying action plans to restore sales in
affected markets,” Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Andre Terisse
said in a statement. “Their success will enable Danone to meet
its growth and margin targets for 2013.”  Danone, which gets  20 percent  of revenue from baby
nutrition, recalled the products in eight markets, including New
Zealand,  China  and Hong Kong, as a precautionary measure. The
findings of an investigation of Fonterra by authorities in New
Zealand concluded that all ingredients used by Danone are in
“full compliance with the highest standards of quality,” the
maker of Activia and Actimel yogurts said today.  Danone will conduct communication campaigns for its Dumex
baby-nutrition brand to rebuild trust through both the mass
media and the Internet, spokeswoman Agnes Berthet-d’Anthonay
said by phone today. The company is confident these action plans
“will show results,” she said.  Maintaining Forecast  Maintaining its forecast for 5 percent organic sales growth
in the third quarter may indicate a better-than-expected
recovery in Danone’s dairy business, according to Jon Cox, head
of European consumer equities at Kepler Cheuvreux in Zurich.  “I presume sales in the impacted region have fallen over
20 percent in August and there has been no improvement in the
trend,” Cox said. He estimates that countries affected by the
recall account for about 45 percent of Danone’s baby-nutrition
sales, or about 10 percent of  total revenue .  Danone shares fell 1.6 percent to 56.34 euros at 10:41 a.m.
in Paris trading. The stock has gained 13 percent this year,
valuing the company at 35.6 billion euros ($47.2 billion).  Danone’s ability to maintain sales growth in the face of
adversity is “positive,” according to Fabio Fazzari, an
analyst at Equita SIM SpA. “If you are able in this particular
environment to completely offset a negative impact in an
important area like Asia maybe the underlying trend is better
than people think,” Fazzari said by phone.  Danone, based in Paris, reported second-quarter sales
growth that beat analysts’ estimates on July 29 as the company
sold more baby-nutrition products in China. Sales of baby-nutrition products surged in the country after a spate of food-safety scandals fueled frenzied demand for foreign formula.  Danone was informed about the contaminated Fonterra whey
protein on Aug. 2 and started preemptive recalls of affected
milk powder products in China on Aug. 4, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  