-- Tax Breaks for Business Become Campaign Issue for Governors
-- B y   T o l u s e   O l o r u n n i p a
-- 2013-08-30T18:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/democrats-see-weapon-in-tax-breaks-given-by-republican-governors.html
Republican governors in at least six
states are being criticized by lawmakers, including some in
their own party, over incentives for companies that went
bankrupt, faced bribery charges or made political donations
before obtaining government funds.  In  Florida , Democrats and Tea Party leaders are faulting
tax breaks that Governor  Rick Scott , 60, gave to the business of
a convicted cocaine trafficker that went bankrupt this year. In
 Ohio  and  Wisconsin , lawmakers asked auditors to probe jobs
recruitment agencies over allegations of corruption.  The tax breaks, cash grants and loans designed to lure
businesses or help them expand are becoming campaign issues
ahead of elections in the next year and a half. Democrats are
trying to co-opt a strategy Republicans used against President
 Barack Obama , who faced negative ads over Solyndra LLC, the
solar-panel maker that received a $535 million federal loan
guarantee before going bankrupt in 2011.  “We expect to talk about these incentives in all of these
races,” said Danny Kanner, a spokesman for the Democratic
Governors Association, pointing to Wisconsin,  South Carolina ,
Florida and other states that could have competitive
gubernatorial elections next year. Kanner said it’s part of a
broader message about governors “rewarding the wealthy and the
well-connected at the expense of the middle class.”  More Incentives  Governors from both parties have increased the use of
incentives since the 18-month  recession  ended in June 2009, said
Kenneth Thomas, a political science professor at University of
Missouri-St. Louis. The practice has been more prevalent and
controversial among Republicans after companies failed and
ethical issues arose.  The nation’s 30 Republican governors are pushing pro-growth
policies and recruiting companies from states with Democratic
leadership and higher taxes, said Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal  in an Aug. 14 statement from the  Republican Governors
Association .  Texas  Republican Governor  Rick Perry  yesterday went
to Missouri, a state led by a Democrat, to lure businesses.  “Republican governors are driving America’s comeback by
balancing budgets, creating jobs, improving education, and
pursuing free-market solutions to the challenges facing our
states,” said Jindal, chairman of the association.  Failed Companies  Jindal, 42, himself backed $257 million in incentives this
month to help South African energy company  Sasol Ltd. (SOL)  build a
fuel plant. Lawmakers from both parties raised objections. Tea
Party Republicans tried unsuccessfully to cut Jindal’s tax-incentive budget this year.  Such incentives gained widespread attention in Florida.
Scott, elected with Tea Party support in 2010, has been faulted
by supporters and critics after awarding government funds to
companies that later failed.  After the chief executive of health-care technology firm
Blueware, Inc. was arrested this month and charged with
government bribery, Democrats dug up a 15-month-old news release
in which Scott celebrated the company’s decision to move to
Florida. The announcement called Blueware’s relocation from
Michigan a “great win” and said $1.3 million in taxpayer funds
would be given to the company. Blueware’s contract was canceled
before the money was paid.  In another case, Banah International Group Inc., a sugar
company based near Miami, filed for  bankruptcy protection  in
February, a year after Florida approved $430,700 in incentives.
Scott’s jobs agency said it was unaware that Banah’s chairman
served four years in prison for cocaine trafficking.  Bipartisan Disgust  “Both Democrats and Republicans, liberals and
conservatives, are bringing this up and saying ‘Hey, wait a
minute,’” said Slade O’Brien, Florida director for Americans
for Prosperity, a small-government group funded by billionaire
industrialists David and  Charles Koch . “I don’t think state
government should be picking winners and losers. It creates a
culture of cronyism and gets the lobbyists and special interests
too involved.”  Florida’s Republican-led legislature has cracked down on
the jobs-recruitment program. Lawmakers rejected Scott’s call to
almost triple funding for incentives this year, instead cutting
the funds by half and requiring more reporting and transparency.  Guarding Taxpayers  Scott has said the incentives have safeguards to protect
taxpayers if companies go bankrupt.  He said his approach has helped reduce Florida’s
unemployment rate to 7.1 percent in July from 10.9 percent when
he took office in January 2011. His jobs-recruitment agency says
that incentives have helped create more than 100,000 high-paying
positions since 1995, recently drawing companies such as  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  to Florida.  In Texas, a state fund has awarded more than $500 million
to companies relocating or expanding since 2003. Perry’s
administration says that the incentives helped create more than
69,000 jobs.  A December report by the enterprise fund listed several
companies that received cash payments and failed to create the
required number of jobs. The money was returned in most cases,
though not always in full. Watchdog groups found that many
awards went to companies that contributed to Perry or the
Republican Governors Association.  Republicans have begun to distance themselves from Perry’s
job-recruitment policies. The Republican-controlled Legislature
approved a bill calling for an audit of Perry’s recruitment
programs this year.  Perry, a 63-year-old who ran unsuccessfully for president,
isn’t seeking re-election.  ’Picking Winners’  Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott , a 55-year-old
Republican seeking to replace Perry, told supporters at a recent
campaign stop near San Antonio that government “needs to get
out of the business of picking winners and losers.”  Candidates opposing the incentives are trying to appeal to
Tea Party voters, said JoAnn Fleming, director of the Texas
Legislature’s Tea Party Caucus Advisory Committee.  “You have lots of politicians who run around bashing
President Obama and the federal government for handing out
federal subsidies to companies like Solyndra,” she said. “But
we do the same thing here in Texas. I think it will be an issue
in this race.”  Perry defends the grants by pointing to a growing economy.  “These funds are an important part of our state’s status
as a national economic leader, bringing tens of thousands of
jobs, billions of dollars in economic investment and innovative,
life-saving technologies,” said Josh Havens, a Perry spokesman,
in an e-mail.  Ohio Jobs  In Ohio, Republican Governor  John Kasich  has faced attacks
over JobsOhio, the private entity he created in 2011 to spur
growth by using bond proceeds backed by liquor profits.
Democratic lawmakers sued the agency, challenging its
constitutionality, and complained it supported tax incentives
for companies with financial ties to board members and Kasich.  Ed FitzGerald, a 45-year-old Democrat seeking Kasich’s seat
in 2014, used words like “cronyism,” “self-dealing” and
“unethical” in a recent statement.  Kasich, 61, calls the criticism “mudslinging.”  “This is politics,” Kasich told reporters in Columbus on
Aug. 15. “Whether it’s a friend, or whether it’s a foe, if
they’re going to create jobs -- and the incentives that are
necessary to encourage them are within the bounds of reason and
reflect the proper return on investment -- we want to do it.’  Governor  Scott Walker  of Wisconsin faced bipartisan
backlash after audits found his job-creation agency loaned
millions of dollars to ineligible companies and failed to
adequately track the funds.  Unfulfilled Promise  Republicans and Democrats have criticized the agency, which
Walker, 45, created in 2011 to help create 250,000 jobs.
Democrats plan to highlight the audits and the unfulfilled job
promise, said Kanner of the Democratic Governors Association.  Tom Evenson, a spokesman for Walker, said most of the
issues at the agency have been addressed and jobs are being
created.  Democrats also have been criticized. Before his 2012 re-election, Delaware Governor Jack Markell faced attacks over a
multimillion-dollar incentive for electric carmaker Fisker
Automotive Inc., which ceased production last year. Markell, 52,
won the election.  Terry McAuliffe , a Democrat running for governor of
Virginia this year, has been faulted as former chairman of
GreenTech Automotive Inc., a battery-powered carmaker, for
accepting grants from  Mississippi  and failing to create promised
jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toluse Olorunnipa in Tallahassee, Florida at 
 tolorunnipa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  