-- Detroit Seeks Loan Proposals to Finance Swaps Settlement
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-08-30T19:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/detroit-seeks-loan-proposals-from-14-banks-hedge-funds.html
Detroit asked 14 banks,  hedge funds 
and other lenders to submit proposals to loan the bankrupt city
as much as $350 million so it can end swaps contracts and set
aside cash for public services.  Should the city go forward, it would use about
$250 million to fund a settlement of swaps contracts with  Bank
of America (BAC)  Corp.’s Merrill Lynch, Bill Nowling, a spokesman for
Detroit’s emergency manager, said in an interview today. The
remainder would be reserved to bolster public services such as
policing, firefighting and blight removal, he said.  Orange County, California, the last large municipality to
borrow while in bankruptcy, used the money to help pay some
creditors early and reduce the size of its obligations. That
legal strategy was designed by bankruptcy lawyer  Bruce Bennett ,
who is among the attorneys leading Detroit’s case.  Last night, the city sent requests to lenders asking them
to submit details about a possible bankruptcy financing package,
known as a debtor-in-possession loan, Nowling said.  “These are all people we have been working with over the
months and who have been wanting to make a proposal should we
seek DIP financing,” Nowling said. He declined to identify any
of the potential lenders.  Population Decline  Detroit, Michigan’s biggest city, sought  bankruptcy
protection  after decades of population decline and dwindling
manufacturing jobs left it too poor to pay bondholders, retired
cops and current city workers. The city said it owes about
$18 billion, making it the biggest municipal bankruptcy ever
filed in the U.S.  The city plans to guarantee repayment of the proposed loan
by treating casino- tax revenue  as collateral, Nowling said. The
tax brings in about $175 million a year and is the subject of a
court fight with bond insurer Syncora Guarantee Inc.  The tax revenue is currently pledged to back  interest-rate
swaps  payments owed investors. To end the payments, the city has
proposed canceling the swaps contracts through a settlement with
Merrill Lynch and UBS AG. Under the settlement, the city would
pay as little as 75 percent of the current value of the swaps,
which can change as  interest rates  rise or fall.  Without the proposed new loan, the city couldn’t fund the
settlement, Nowling said. Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr says
Detroit can save about $50 million by canceling the contracts.
The discounted value of the swaps was about $190 million,
according to the city.  Syncora, which insured some of the swaps, claims it may be
economically harmed by the cancellation. The judge overseeing
Detroit’s bankruptcy case is scheduled to consider the
settlement next month.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  