-- Tea Partiers Heckle Rubio Who Stays Mum on Immigration
-- B y   T o l u s e   O l o r u n n i p a
-- 2013-08-31T20:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/tea-partiers-heckle-rubio-who-stays-mum-on-immigration.html
In the 15 minutes Marco Rubio spent
speaking to a crowd of anti-tax Tea Party Republicans in
Orlando,  Florida , he didn’t mention the word “immigration.”
Activists at the annual meeting of Americans for Prosperity
didn’t hesitate to raise the subject -- loudly.  “No amnesty,” shouted several men and women, interrupting
the Florida Republican senator multiple times during his speech
yesterday. “Secure the border,” a woman near the back of the
room whispered as Rubio paused briefly during remarks that
coursed through such ideals as “American values,” “free
enterprise,” “moral wellbeing” and “strong families.”  For Rubio, 42, a prospective 2016 White House candidate,
immigration represents both his greatest legislative
accomplishment and perhaps the biggest threat to his chances of
becoming America’s first Hispanic president.  The hecklers, and Rubio’s decision not to address their
concerns, illustrate the tension that has grown between the
lawmaker who helped author the immigration bill passed by the
Senate and the Tea Party activists who fueled his candidacy just
three years ago.  “There are some Republicans, some conservatives and some
Tea Partiers that are very disappointed in him,” said Slade
O’Brien, Florida director for Americans for Prosperity, an
Arlington, Virginia-based group that advocates for limited
government and a free-market economy.  Tough Crowd  “Voters in Florida have been tougher on him than in the
rest of the country because he campaigned here in 2010,” said
O’Brien, who helped organize the Orlando gathering. “He’s going
to have to win those voters back.”  The immigration bill -- which offers 11 million
undocumented U.S.  immigrants  an opportunity to become citizens -
- passed the Senate in late June. With other Tea Party-backed
lawmakers criticizing the citizenship provision as “amnesty,”
the measure has stalled in the U.S. House.  Before the Senate approved its bill, Rubio spent months
trying to win over Tea Party activists, doing interviews with
talk radio hosts and television personalities popular with
Republicans.  In his speech yesterday, Rubio stuck mostly to issues that
generate considerable support among Tea Party Republicans and
other small-government advocates.  He joined Republican Governors Bobby Jindal of Louisiana
and  Rick Perry  of  Texas , both of whom are also considered
potential 2016 candidates, in embracing tax cuts, criticizing
the federal government and attacking President Barack Obama.
Today, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas gave a keynote address to the
group, spoke on those same themes while vowing to overturn the
federal health-care law.  ‘Something Broken’  “Our struggles are not because there’s something broken
with America,” Rubio said. “Our struggles are because there’s
something broken with this president, his administration and his
policies.”  Susannah Hinkle, a 46-year-old recent law school graduate
from Orlando, said she voted for Rubio in 2010 and feels
betrayed. For the 2016 presidential race, she’s considering
Republicans outside her home state.  “I like Governor Perry and Governor Jindal, but I’m a
little disappointed in Senator Rubio,” said Hinkle, who
attended the event. “I understand his position that the
immigration system needs to be reformed, but doing it with the
likes of the Senate Democrats isn’t the way to go.”  Rubio acknowledged in his speech that he relied on the Tea
Party and such groups as AFP to win his Senate seat, and said he
will take a strong stance on two issues they care about: the
federal  health-care  law and the federal debt.  “I will not vote for any short-term budget that spends one
single cent on Obamacare,” he said, drawing cheers. “I will
not vote to raise the  debt limit  unless it comes with a balanced
budget amendment.”  Making Inroads  Aside from the hecklers, Rubio’s decision to steer clear of
the immigration issue and emphasize  small-government  themes
played well with some of the crowd, and he left to a standing
ovation.  Jim Bannon, a 73-year-old retiree from Ponte Vedra Beach,
Florida, said he would vote for Rubio if he runs for president
in 2016. “I don’t like the amnesty thing, but I still support
him, I respect him,” he said.  His wife, Mary Lou Bannon, chimed in: “But we have a lot
of friends who don’t.”  Cruz, 42, galvanized the crowd of more than 500 activists
with a vow to “repeal Obamacare.”  “In the next 30 days we have our single best opportunity
we’ve ever had to stand up and defund Obamacare,” he said. “I
think it is the most important fight facing our country right
now.”  Jindal and Perry accused  Washington  of meddling in their
states.  Jindal, 42, brought up a recent Justice Department lawsuit
over Louisiana’s education initiatives, criticizing U.S.
Attorney General Eric Holder and the president. He said he will
challenge the suit.  ’American Dream’  “We’ve got a message for Eric Holder and we’ve got a
message for  Barack Obama ,” he said. “The American dream is
alive and well in Louisiana and we’re going to fight.”  Perry, 63, bashed the federal government over the health-care law, taxes and other policy issues he said should be left
to state lawmakers. He defended his efforts to recruit jobs from
other states, saying the competition would spur innovation.
Governors in states targeted by Perry have been critical of the
job recruitment efforts, with some accusing him of “poaching.”  “All roads lead back to the states, that’s the future of
America,” Perry said to applause. “Let the states lead this
country back to prosperity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toluse Olorunnipa in Orlando, Florida at 
 tolorunnipa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  