-- Egypt Brotherhood Protests Stay Low-Key Amid Security Crackdown
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-08-30T14:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/egypt-brotherhood-protests-stay-low-key-amid-security-crackdown.html
Egypt ’s Muslim Brotherhood held
rallies today that drew diminished numbers as the group
struggles to regain its footing amid a security crackdown.  A few thousand people heeded calls by the Brotherhood and
protested in Cairo and other cities against the army ouster of
Islamist President Mohamed Mursi two months ago, as police and
soldiers blocked key roads.  There were no initial reports of serious violence at
rallies in Cairo or Giza, though there were some clashes in
Gharbiya, north of Cairo, where police used tear gas to disperse
protesters, and in the coastal city of Alexandria, according to
state-run Ahram Gate website. One person died in Port Said
during clashes, Ahram Gate reported. At least 33 were injured in
clashes in Sharqia province, the Health Ministry said in an e-mailed statement, while the Brotherhood said one was killed.  Violence spread across the country after the army-backed
government sent police to clear two Islamist protest camps in
Cairo and Giza earlier this month, killing hundreds. Since then
Brotherhood leaders have been targeted by a wave of arrests.  “The people want to execute the butcher,” protesters
yelled, according to footage on  Al Jazeera ’s Egyptian channel.
They were referring to army chief Abdelfatah al-Seesi, who led
the July 3 ouster of Mursi.  A policeman and a civilian were killed today as gunmen in
two cars opened fire on a police station in the Heliopolis
neighborhood in Cairo, the  Interior Ministry  said.  Three senior Brotherhood figures, including Mohamed El-Beltagy, were arrested yesterday. Security forces detained 140
Brotherhood supporters rallying in Qalyubia province today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Johannesburg at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  