-- Emerging Stocks Rise on Receding Syria Risk as Oil Falls
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-08-30T21:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/emerging-stocks-rise-paring-monthly-loss-as-ringgit-advances.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
paring a monthly decline, amid receding prospects for an
imminent strike against  Syria . Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  posted its
biggest monthly gain this year led by commodities exporters.  The Jakarta Composite Index climbed the most in a month as
PT Global Mediacom surged 17 percent after announcing a buyback
plan.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  capped the longest rally since May
2012. The Ibovespa rose 3.7 percent in August as pulp maker
Suzano Papel e Celulose SA soared.  Indonesia ’s rupiah posted the
biggest monthly decline since the global financial crisis of
2008, while Brazil’s real tumbled 1.1 percent.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index increased 0.9 percent to
929.54 after the U.K. parliament declined to back military
action in Syria. The fell 1.9 percent this month. West Texas
Intermediate crude fell for a second day.  Consumer confidence  in
the U.S. dropped in August from a six-year high, while consumer
spending rose less than forecast in July.  “There are some opportunities on the market,” Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based fund manager at Federated
Investors Inc., which oversees about $380 billion, said by
phone. “The uncertainty surrounding Syria had an impact on the
markets this week. Any resolution will be welcome.”  Nine out of  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
rose today, led by health-care shares. The gauge of developing
nations trimmed this year’s plunge to 12 percent, compared with
an 10 percent advance for a measure of developed markets.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 0.8 percent to $38.02. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
added 0.5 percent to 28.14.  Brazil’s Ibovespa posted a second monthly gain as Suzano
rose 3 percent.  Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA plunged 40 percent to a record low 30 centavos in the last
minutes of trading.  The Micex Index slid 0.5 percent in Moscow. OAO Inter RAO
UES declined 3.2 percent. The partially state-owned Russian
power company posted a net loss in the first half. Benchmark
gauges in Poland and Hungary advanced.  Indian equities climbed, with the benchmark index halting
five weeks of declines, after Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said
policy changes in the past year will help stem the rupee’s
slide.  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  gained the most in 20 months. The nation’s
economy expanded at the weakest pace since 2009 last quarter,
data showed today. The rupee gained 1.4 percent.  Indonesia, China  The Jakarta Composite Index surged 2.2 percent as  Global
Mediacom (BMTR)  climbed the most since October 2010. The rupiah slumped
5.9 percent in August, the biggest drop since November 2008.
Malaysia’s ringgit posted its fourth monthly drop.      South
Korea’s Kospi Index posted the best week in a year as Samsung
rallied a sixth day. The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.1
percent, adding to a 2 percent gain this week.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries slid five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 354 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  