-- LePage Promises to Keep Quiet as Maine Republicans Fret
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-08-30T15:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/lepage-promises-to-keep-quiet-as-maine-republicans-fret.html
Maine  Governor Paul LePage now keeps
a roll of duct tape on his desk as a reminder to himself.  “We all have faults -- mine is that I can’t keep my mouth
shut,” LePage, 64, said yesterday in his Augusta office. “I
promised my staff: Now till Election Day, when I want to say
something that is off-color, I’m going to tape my mouth shut.”  New England’s only Republican governor is coming off a
rocky summer. He alluded to sodomy while criticizing a political
opponent, joked about bombing the state’s largest newspaper and
on Aug. 19 was quoted online as saying the nation’s first black
president “hates white people.”  A Republican in a state twice carried by Democratic
President  Barack Obama , LePage is already one of the most
vulnerable governors seeking re-election next year. The verbal
miscues are creating fissures in his party, robbing him of the
chance to sell his pro-business and Tea Party-backed agenda and
underscoring a “go it alone” attitude that’s alienating
potential allies.  “I will put my actions against any candidate running for
governor,” LePage said. “I can get it done. They talk nice
words. This state has been under 50 years of one-party rule. It
is time they get a little shock to the system. Wake them up.”  LePage can rattle off a list of accomplishments, mostly
from his first two years in office, when Republicans controlled
not only the governor’s mansion but both chambers of the
legislature for the first time since 1967. Maine traditionally
elected Democratic or centrist Republican governors.  ‘Historic’ Changes  He reduced income taxes by the largest amount in state
history, froze cost-of-living increases for three years and
raised the  retirement age  for new state workers to revamp the
 pension plan . He also enacted a program to repay about $500
million in debt to hospitals, which has been a drag on the
state’s credit rating, by negotiating better terms on a state
liquor contract.  “These were all historic pieces of legislation that are
pushing the needle in the right direction,” said J. Scott
Moody, the chief executive officer of the  Maine Heritage Policy
Center , a Portland-based research organization that says it
promotes “conservative public policies” and free enterprise.  One of the most tangible signs of his leadership is in
downtown Portland, the state’s largest city, where teachers this
week were preparing for the first class of 135 freshman and
sophomores at the Baxter Academy for Technology and Science.
Maine’s third charter school, it will boast a Mandarin-speaking
instructor, a metalworking shop with computer-controlled
machines, and math and science classrooms looking out on Casco
Bay.  Safety Net  LePage also has cut the size of the state government,
overhauled Maine’s welfare program to push recipients off of the
dole after five years and passed legislation -- which hasn’t
been implemented -- to require drug testing for welfare
recipients with narcotics convictions. Those who fail would have
to enter a treatment program or lose benefits.  Advocates for the needy say the changes cut benefits to
2,231 families, including 80 a month that will be pushed off
welfare as they hit the five-year limit.  “It is unprecedented, the cuts to the safety net,” said
Robyn Merrill, a senior policy analyst with  Maine Equal Justice
Partners , an Augusta-based nonprofit. “Instead of a war on
poverty, it feels like a war on poor people.”  LePage answers critics by saying that some of his 17
siblings have been on welfare.  “We want to have some accountability,” he said. “We want
a system that, one, we can afford, two, it works and, three,
that the most vulnerable are taken care of and are moving toward
self-sufficiency.”  Lobster Gifts  In June, the governor vetoed a bill that would have
expanded Medicaid to 50,000 adults without children and
prevented about 25,000 from losing benefits starting in January.  LePage said he’s open to revisiting a smaller expansion
that requires the poor to contribute something toward their
health costs when the legislature returns next year.  “If you are making $20,000 a year and you can use 1
percent of your income to pay for your health insurance, I think
that is a deal,” he said. “I’ll take that deal all day long.”  Selling the new agenda hasn’t been easy.  Last week, on the same day that LePage sent every U.S.
governor a carton of lobster to promote the industry, the
 Portland  Press Herald quoted unidentified Republican lawmakers
as saying that LePage, speaking at a fundraiser, told donors
that Obama “hates white people.”  Apology Issued  In the interview, LePage referred to the comments as
“alleged,” though he didn’t deny making them.  “It was not the way it was reported,” he said.  He also sent a letter to members of his party: “My fellow
Republicans, I write to you to apologize for any difficulty that
remarks recently reported in the press may have caused you.”  Other comments were caught on tape. In June, during a
budget battle where Republicans joined forces with Democrats to
override his spending plan, LePage singled out Democratic
lawmaker Troy Jackson.  “Senator Jackson claims to be for the people, but he’s the
first one to give it to the people without providing Vaseline,”
LePage told a local television station. The governor walked away
and then returned. “That comment is not politically correct,
but we’ve got to understand who this man is,” he said. “This
man is a bad person. He doesn’t only have no brains, he has a
black heart.”  ‘Embarrassed’ Senator  The episode prompted Roger Katz, the assistant Republican
leader in the state Senate, to write an apologetic essay in the
Press Herald. “I am embarrassed,” he said.  In the interview, LePage said he’s a “poor politician but
a good businessman.”  His shoot-from-the-hip comments date to the campaign, when
he told a group of fishermen: “As your governor, you’re going
to be seeing a lot of me on the  front page  saying, ‘Governor
LePage tells Obama to go to hell.’”  The governor was raised in Lewiston, Maine. He said his
father beat him as a child -- injuring him enough to require
hospital treatment at one point -- prompting him to leave home
and live on the streets.  With the help of two families, he said, he found work and
went to school. He graduated from Lewiston High School and
Husson College in Bangor, Maine, then received a master’s degree
in business administration from the University of Maine.  He worked at a discount chain, Marden’s Surplus & Salvage,
where he rose to become general manager. In 2003, he was elected
mayor of Waterville, a city that’s home to Colby College.  ‘Living Secretariat’  In 2010, he beat six Republicans in a primary to become the
party’s nominee for the open seat for governor. LePage won by 2
percentage points, with 38 percent of the vote in a five-way
race.  In LePage’s statehouse office, there’s a framed picture of
 Secretariat , the champion racehorse that swept the Triple Crown
in 1973, with a message signed by former jockey Ron Turcotte.  “It says ‘You are the living Secretariat,’” LePage said.
“I was totally unknown before I became governor.”  Polls suggest his run may not last. LePage’s party lost
control of both chambers of the legislature in 2012. A survey of
953 voters by Public Policy Polling, conducted Aug. 23-25,
showed Democratic challenger Mike Michaud, one of Maine’s two
members of Congress since 2003, beating LePage 39 percent to 35
percent.  Independent Eliot Cutler, who ran in 2010 and hasn’t
formally declared for next year, was backed by 18 percent. The
poll had a margin for error of plus or minus 3.2 percentage
points.  Special Election  Perhaps more tellingly, this week Democrats narrowly won a
special election for a swing senate seat after running radio
advertisements that rehashed LePage’s gaffes and making
robocalls tying the candidate to the governor’s opposition of
Medicaid expansion.  After hearing the vote totals, losing Republican candidate
Paula Benoit, 58, stood outside her election night party at an
Irish pub in Bath and said that seniors were misled.  “Democrats said I would take away their Medicaid,” she
said. “Can you imagine that?”  Standing in the vestibule in the salty Maine air, she
repeated the same phrase a few times.  “I’m a moderate Republican,” she said. “I’m a moderate
Republican.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Augusta, Maine, at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  