-- Ericsson to Expand Africa Network Services Amid Growth
-- B y   Y i n k a   I b u k u n
-- 2013-08-30T13:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/ericsson-to-expand-africa-network-services-amid-growth.html
Ericsson AB, the world’s largest
maker of wireless-network equipment, plans to expand its
network-management services in  Africa  as more phone companies
outsource the technical side of their business.  Ericsson, which has contracts to manage Africa network
services for New Delhi-based Bharti Airtel and Atlantique
Telecom, is in talks with more operators on the continent, Kamar
Abass, managing director of Ericsson Nigeria Ltd. and head of
regional accounts for sub-Saharan Africa, said in an interview
on Aug. 27 in Lagos, the commercial capital. Atlantic Telecom is
a unit of Abu Dhabi-based  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) ,
known as Etisalat.  “Having the two contracts today gives us a solid
baseline,” he said. “We are discussing very seriously with
three or four customers.”  Services managed by Stockholm-based Ericsson include
building telecommunications networks, running them and upgrading
when necessary to increase network speed and capacity for new
consumer services, an industry that will probably grow globally
to $25 billion by 2017 from $14 billion last year, according to
New York-based  ABI Research . It’s relatively new in Africa where
most operators manage their own networks.  In June, the company opened two regional service centers in
the  Democratic Republic  of Congo and Nigeria as it tries to
convince operators in the continent that it’s more efficient to
have their networks managed, according to Abass.  Growth Room  Ericsson, which makes 40 percent of its global revenue from
such services, announced in May that it had reached one billion
connections out of an estimated 6.5 billion connections
worldwide, meaning that almost one in six mobile lines are
managed by the company.  Its 2011 contract with Airtel gives it responsibility for
managing part of a network with 55.8 million subscribers in
Africa. For Atlantique Telecom it runs a network of about 10
million subscribers. With about 65 million connections under the
company’s management on a continent with more than 454 million
connections in 2012, Africa offers room for growth, with the GSM
Association estimating that there will be 700 mobile phone
connections in the continent by 2016.  Service Centers  Ericsson’s competitors in the managed-services market
include Zoetermeer, Netherlands-based Nokia Siemens Networks,
Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent SA, and Shenzhen, China-based Huawei
Technologies Co. Its new service center in Congo caters to
French-speaking clients and another in  Nigeria  serves English-speaking customers in Africa, with Ericsson workers trained on
various technologies used by the operators, according to Abass.  Nigeria has the biggest mobile-phone market in Africa at
117.4 million subscribers as of June 2013, according to the
Nigerian Communications Commission, from a population of more
than 160 million. With many subscribers acquiring more than one
line, the numbers will grow to more than 200 million
subscriptions in 2017, London-based research company Informa
Telecoms & Media predicts.  There are concerns the business model might lead to loss of
jobs in the West African nation’s telecommunications industry,
which employs 15,000 people directly and as much as 70,000
others indirectly, according to Gbenga Adebayo, chairman of the
Association of Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria.  There
should be clear guidelines on “what the protection will be
for” employees.  Worsening Insecurity  Two of the four biggest phone companies in Nigeria use
networks managed on contract, with the others running most of
theirs. All are investing a combined $5 billion to expand their
network capacity for data with Nigerian smartphone users
expected to increase to more than 35 million by 2017 from 5.6
million at the end of last year, according to Informa.  Major challenges include frequent power cuts and worsening
insecurity since telecommunications facilities became targets of
Islamist militants engaged in a violent campaign in the mainly
Muslim north and Abuja since 2009 for Shariah rule.  “That ability to keep a network site up-and-running is a
basic capability, it’s a kind of entry to the club” of serious
competitors, said Abass.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yinka Ibukun in Lagos at 
 yibukun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  