-- EU Carbon Has Longest Rally Since 2008 Before Sept. Supply Boost
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-08-30T16:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/eu-carbon-set-for-longest-rally-since-2008-before-supply-boost.html
EU carbon permits rose for a fourth
month, the longest rally since 2008, before the European Union
was scheduled to announce its verdict on the distribution of
this year’s permits after a seven-month delay.  The benchmark December futures contract advanced 5.3
percent in August and climbed 86 percent from a record 2.46
euros ($3.25) a metric ton in April. Carbon closed 0.7 percent
lower at 4.57 euros a ton on ICE Futures Europe in  London .  The European Commission, the bloc’s regulator, said in July
it would announce its decision on the number of permits to hand
out free of charge to industrial companies “during the course
of September 2013.” To date, only 506 million of an estimated
total of about 2 billion allowances for 2013 have been
distributed. A permit covers one ton of carbon dioxide emitted.  “The market is moving sideways as people are waiting for
news from the European Commission about the allocation of this
year’s free permits,” Milan Hudak, an analyst at Virtuse Energy
sro in  Prague , said by e-mail.  The EU’s emissions trading system allocates for free or
auctions allowances to about 12,000 factories and utilities,
which must surrender enough permits to match their discharges of
carbon dioxide or pay fines. The handout of permits is usually
done by the end of February under EU rules.  The allocation delay comes as countries adjust to the
eight-year-old trading system’s third phase, which began in
January and runs until 2020. As of this year, power generators
in western  Europe  no longer get free permits and the individual
quotas for factories depends on their emissions efficiency.  The free allowances distributed by countries this year will
cover about half of the annual pollution quota in the bloc’s
emissions trading system, according to the EU.  United Nations Emission Reduction Units also gained for a
fourth month, after falling to a record 6 euro cents a ton on
May 1. The contract dropped as much as 30 percent to 28 euro
cents on ICE Futures today, before closing at 36 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  