-- EU’s Barnier Says No Plan B for Single Bank Resolution System
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-08-30T09:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/eu-s-barnier-says-no-plan-b-for-single-bank-resolution-system.html
The European Union’s top financial-services official warned euro-area nations that there is no
alternative to a single system for handling failing banks, as he
urged them to reach rapid agreement on a draft law to pool
decision-making.  “There is no plan B,”  Michel Barnier , the EU commissioner
for internal market and services, said in an interview yesterday
with Bloomberg Television at a conference of the French
employer’s federation in Jouy-en-Josas,  France . “It’s urgent
that we deliver this second pillar of the banking union, which
the euro area needs for its stability.”  EU leaders called last year for euro-area countries to put
in place joint oversight and crisis management of lenders in a
bid to repair confidence in the solidity of the bloc’s banking
system. While governments have approved the project in
principle, plans presented by Barnier in July to centralize
decisions on how to resuscitate or wind down an imperiled bank
have met staunch opposition from  Germany , which argues that the
proposed measures are illegal.  “I don’t exclude what German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  wants - that we could, with a later treaty change,
improve and consolidate the system,” Barnier said. This
shouldn’t prevent the bloc from pressing ahead rapidly under its
current rulebook, he said.  While he is open to compromise, “the only thing that I
can’t accept is a system that won’t function,” Barnier said.  Barnier said that his plan would avoid a repeat of the
prolonged haggling that surrounded the bailout and dismemberment
of French-Belgian lender  Dexia SA (DEXB)  in 2011.  Dexia Limits  “We have seen the limits” of current procedures, Barnier
said. “When you need in a crisis to get together on a Friday or
a Sunday, bring together the national resolution authorities,
which aren’t used to working together, and who don’t have a
system for taking joint decisions, that presents big risks;
we’ve seen it with Dexia,” he said.  The plans for a single resolution system are the second
plank of the banking union project. A deal on the first part --
giving supervision powers to the  European Central Bank  -- was
reached earlier this year.  Barnier said he was “worried” that the EU could face a
situation where supervision is transferred to the European
level, but resolution remains a national competence.  “Logic” dictates that resolution should also be dealt
with at EU level, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  