-- Euro-Area Inflation Slowed in August on Energy Prices
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2013-08-30T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/euro-area-inflation-slowed-in-august-on-energy-prices.html
Euro-area inflation slowed more than
economists forecast in August, led by a decline in energy
prices, even as the 17-nation currency bloc’s economic recovery
began to gain momentum.  Consumer prices rose 1.3 percent after a 1.6 percent gain
in July, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said in a preliminary estimate today. The median forecast in a
 Bloomberg News survey  of 38 economists was for a 1.4 percent
increase. Inflation has been below the  European Central Bank ’s 2
percent ceiling for  seven months .  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said in July that the Frankfurt-based central bank would keep  interest rates  at the present
level or lower for an “extended period” based on a “subdued”
inflation outlook. Governing Council Member Ewald Nowotny said
yesterday that a rate cut is still possible even as the euro-area economy shows signs of improvement.  Encouraging indicators have begun to accumulate since the
euro-area economy  returned to growth  in the second quarter,
ending a record-long recession.  Consumer sentiment  increased to
a 25-month high in August and  manufacturing output  expanded for
a second month. The  Stoxx Europe 600 index  has risen more than 3
percent in the last two months.  Rate Cut  Yet ECB policy makers can’t rule out lowering the benchmark
rate from the record low of 0.5 percent, Central Bank of Cyprus
Governor Panicos Demetriades said on Aug. 24. His comments
echoed a statement by  Germany ’s Bundesbank on Aug. 19. The ECB
holds its next rate meeting on Sept. 5.  Energy prices decreased 0.4 percent in August after a 1.6
percent increase a month earlier, today’s report showed. Prices
of food, alcohol and tobacco rose 3.3 percent, while the cost of
services increased 1.5 percent.  Dick Boer , chief executive officer of Zaandam, Netherlands-based Royal Ahold NV,  said  on Aug. 22 that in “the current
economic environment,” which includes record unemployment in
the euro area, the retailer remains “cautious in our outlook
for the balance of the year, as we expect customers to be
focused on value and volumes to remain under pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  