-- European Soccer Club Losses Narrow to $1.45 Billion, UEFA Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-08-30T16:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/european-soccer-club-losses-narrow-to-1-45-billion-uefa-says.html
Losses in European soccer’s top
leagues fell 36 percent to 1.1 billion euros ($1.45 billion) in
2012, according to figures released by the sport’s regional
governing body  UEFA .  UEFA President  Michel Platini  and the organization’s
general secretary Gianni Infantino attributed the change to the
adoption of new cost-control regulations known as “financial
fair play” that will from next season penalize teams that
breach targets. Sanctions include expulsion from the lucrative
 Champions League , the continent’s elite club competition.  “ Clubs are clearly getting the message because something
is happening,” Infantino told reporters today in  Monte Carlo .  UEFA in two weeks will publish a financial study of more
than 700 clubs playing in  Europe ’s top leagues. It will show for
the first time since 2007, wage increases didn’t grow at a
faster rate than revenue, Infantino said.  Controlling spiraling losses in European soccer has been
one of Platini’s central aims in recent years. Boosted by
investment from billionaire owners, teams such as English
Premier League duo  Manchester City  and Chelsea, and most-recently Monaco and Paris Saint-Germain of  France ’s Ligue 1,
have spent record amounts on salaries and transfers while making
triple-digit losses in some years.  “Financial fair play is not just a whim of the
president,” said Platini. “It is also the wish of the European
football family and political bodies to come up with a
regulation to counter this scourge.”  Legal Challenges                           Platini conceded UEFA is likely to face legal challenges
once it starts sanctioning teams for breaches of the financial
fair play regulations.  “This will lead to discussions which will inevitably end
up in court,” he said.  Though total losses have narrowed since 2011, when the
collective deficit was 1.7 billion euros, some clubs continued
spending lavishly during the offseason. Real Madrid is prepared
to pay more than the record 80 million pounds ($124 million) it
spent on Cristiano Ronaldo to sign Tottenham forward  Gareth Bale , according to Spurs manager Andre Villas-Boas.  Platini said world governing body FIFA needs to look at how
the transfer market operates, and “find something more
healthy.”  “I think it’s an opportunity for a lot of people to make a
lot of money,” he said. “Today a player is more a product than
a footballer with a whole pile of people trying to get
commissions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Monaco at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  