-- Euro-Area Unemployment Rate Holds at Record 12.1% Amid Expansion
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-08-30T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/euro-area-unemployment-rate-holds-at-record-12-1-amid-expansion.html
Euro-area unemployment  held at a
record in July, underscoring the challenges that face the 17-nation currency bloc as it tries to shake off the legacy of a
debt crisis now in its fourth year.  The  jobless rate  in the  euro zone  remained at 12.1 percent,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
That’s in line with the median of 31 economists’ estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey . Unemployment among young people increased
to 24 percent.  “We have a very bleak outlook for unemployment in the euro
area as a whole,” said Anatoli Annenkov, senior economist at
Societe Generale SA in  London . “The main headwinds remain high
policy uncertainty in the euro area and still-fragmented
financial markets, while we also expect several countries to
need more fiscal consolidation.”  The bleak jobs report runs counter to a growing body of
data that show the euro area’s economic recovery building
momentum after the bloc exited a  record-long recession  in the
second quarter. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index has gained 3.6
percent in the last two months. Economic confidence in the euro
zone increased in August to the highest since August 2011, the
European Commission in Brussels said today.  “Europe looks pretty attractive,” said Sheila Patel,
chief executive officer of International Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, commenting on European equity valuations during an
interview with Bloomberg Television on Aug. 27. “If you look at
profitability, if you look at business trends, there is a
recovery.”  Gradual Recovery  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said this
month that while risks to the economy continue to be on the
downside, he expects a gradual recovery in the second half of
the year. The ECB has pledged to keep  interest rates  low for an
extended period after it cut its benchmark rate to a record low
of 0.5 percent in May.  Unemployment is proving resistant to Europe’s improving
economic fortunes, and may help to explain why economists in a
separate Bloomberg survey see growth slowing to 0.1 percent in
the third quarter after a 0.3 percent expansion in the three
months through June. Analysts forecast the jobless rate won’t
drop below 12 percent through 2015.  In  Germany , unemployment unexpectedly rose in August for
the first time in three months, according to the the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency, and inflation slowed in a sign that
Europe’s biggest economy is cooling after a second-quarter
surge.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s biggest steelmaker, plans to cut
3,000 administrative jobs over three years and this month said
it will shut two plants at Neuwied.  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , the rival
steelmaker that predicts a loss for 2013 amid waning demand in
Europe, will eliminate more than 1,500 positions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  