-- China’s Everbright Draws Record Penalty After Insider Trading
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/everbright-securities-hit-with-fines-employee-bans-for-error.html
China ’s securities regulator imposed
a record penalty on  Everbright Securities Co. (601788)  after finding the
state-controlled broker engaged in insider trading as it roiled
the nation’s equity markets with errant trades two weeks ago.  Fines and the confiscation of illicit gains will total 523
million yuan ($85 million), the China Securities Regulatory
Commission said in a  statement  on its website yesterday. Four
people including ex-President Xu Haoming will be banned from
markets for life and the brokerage was barred from most
proprietary trading, it said.  The CSRC had initially barred Everbright from trading using
its own money for three months after erroneous buy orders on
Aug. 16 sparked the biggest swing in China’s  benchmark equity
index  since 2009. The misstep, combined with glitches this month
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and in the Nasdaq Stock Market, has
fueled concern that electronic trading systems are unreliable.  “The penalty is quite a harsh one, as the Everbright error
had a huge impact on the market,” Wei Tao, a Beijing-based
analyst at China Securities Co., said by phone yesterday. “With
the CSRC saying this is an  insider trading  incident instead of
just a trading error, this will put downward pressure on the
shares of Everbright Securities, at least in the near term.”  Everbright committed insider trading by selling exchange-traded funds and index futures before telling the market it had
made erroneous trades, the CSRC said.  Mei Jian, Everbright’s board secretary, declined to
immediately comment when reached on his mobile phone. Two more
calls went unanswered.  Life Bans  Everbright’s former President Xu resigned and the brokerage
suspended Yang Jianbo, the head of its proprietary trading
business, last week. The firm estimated it lost 194 million yuan
on the trades, based on Aug. 16 closing prices, and said the
figure may change.  Xu, Yang and the two other employees responsible for the
incident will each be fined 600,000  yuan  as well as being barred
from  securities market  for life, the CSRC said in its statement.
Board Secretary Mei was fined 200,000 yuan, according to the
statement.  The brokerage’s proprietary trading business, excluding
fixed income, will be halted and the CSRC will also suspend
reviews of any new businesses for Everbright, the regulator
said.  The watchdog said the  abnormal trading  on Aug. 16 involved
insider trading, misleading information and the violation of
internal risk-management guidelines, according to the regulator.  “The punishment sends a signal to the market that the CSRC
will not tolerate irregularities,” Chen Xingyu, a Shanghai-based analyst at Phillip Securities Research, said by phone
yesterday. “This is a long process: The system risk won’t be
removed just because of the Everbright incident or just by
getting one brokerage to behave.”  Debt Suspension  The value of equities, securities and derivatives held by
Everbright’s proprietary trading desk relative to net capital
exceeded the regulatory limit of 100 percent after the incident,
Everbright said on Aug. 18.  The firm was barred by the  China Financial Futures Exchange 
from creating new stock-index futures positions as of Aug. 19
and was suspended from underwriting debt sold by non-financial
institutions on the nation’s interbank market.  Second Investigation  The watchdog’s investigation into the erroneous trades was
its second probe of Everbright this year. The CSRC in June began
scrutinizing the brokerage in relation to Henan Tianfon Energy-Saving Panel Science & Technology Co.’s initial share sale
application, which the regulator said contained falsified
information. The CSRC said July 19 it had concluded field
investigation work and passed the case to its administrative
penalties commission.  In May, the regulator imposed a penalty of 76.7 million
yuan on Ping An Securities Co. in fines and confiscated revenue
for advising on Wanfu Biotechnology Hunan Agricultural
Development Co.’s IPO. Wanfu was fined 300,000 yuan for its
share sale, which the CSRC deemed fraudulent.  Computer malfunctions caused  Nasdaq , the second-biggest
American market operator, to halt transactions in all of its
shares for more than three hours on Aug. 22. Errors in the feed
used to disseminate quotes and prices were to blame, said
Nasdaq, which is home to 3,200 companies from 37 countries.  The Nasdaq halt came two days after a Goldman Sachs
computer malfunctioned, bombarding options markets with
erroneous orders. Options officials at Nasdaq as well as NYSE
Amex and  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  spent almost a day reviewing orders
for cancellation.  Everbright Securities is controlled by its closely held
parent, China Everbright Group, which has businesses from
banking, insurance and asset management to tourism and property
development. The stock has fallen 29 percent this year, compared
with the Shanghai Composite Index’s 7.6 percent drop.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  