-- Falcone Insurer Said to Seek $1 Billion Valuation in IPO
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-08-30T20:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/falcone-insurer-said-to-seek-1-billion-valuation-in-ipo.html
Fidelity & Guaranty Life, the
insurer controlled by  Philip Falcone ’s  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) , is
seeking a valuation of at least $1 billion in its initial public
offering, according to two people involved in the planning.  Fidelity & Guaranty may sell a 10 percent stake for $100
million, said one of the people, who asked for anonymity because
plans for the offering are confidential. Proceeds will be used
to pay cash to Harbinger and expand operations, according to a
prospectus filed yesterday that outlined the stock sale.  The plans listed a sale amount of $100 million, which is
typically a placeholder used to calculate registration fees,
without saying how many shares would be offered or giving a
price.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  is leading the deal.  “FGL is worth over $1 billion,” Manal Mehta, whose
Sunesis Capital LLC hedge fund owns Harbinger shares, wrote in
an e-mail yesterday. “A public listing of FGL will make that
division’s contribution of value to the holding company more
apparent.”  Fidelity & Guaranty specializes in life insurance and
retirement products with about 700,000 policy holders. For the
12 months ended Sept. 30, profit was $344.1 million on revenue
of $1.22 billion. Total equity was $1.29 billion as of June 30.  Pamela Blum, a spokeswoman for Harbinger at Sard Verbinnen
& Co., declined to comment, as did Jack Grone at Credit Suisse.
New York-based Harbinger rose 1.2 percent to $9.19 at 4:06 p.m.  Falcone, 51, is focused on running Harbinger after the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission barred him from the hedge-fund industry that made him a billionaire. Harbinger will retain
a majority stake in Baltimore-based Fidelity & Guaranty after
the offering, according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  