-- Free Nurse Practitioners From Supervision
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-30T15:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/free-nurse-practitioners-from-supervision.html
Whatever its flaws, the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act has sparked innovation across
the U.S.’s sclerotic health-care system. An especially welcome
example is the push to expand the role of nurse practitioners in
primary care.  The country’s  171,000  NPs are trained to do many jobs that
primary-care doctors do: diagnose problems and treat patients,
order tests, prescribe drugs and refer to specialists. And with
an average income of $99,000, they’re a bargain; the average
family medicine physician makes  twice that  after six years’
practice.  What NPs have not been able to do in most states is
practice those skills without a doctor looking over their
shoulder.  Seventeen states  allow it; 12 do not; and the rest
fall somewhere between, requiring some degree of physician
supervision.  President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, which will extend
insurance to an estimated 25 million more Americans, may get
states to lift those restrictions. California is already
considering it, as are  Pennsylvania ,  Michigan  and  Massachusetts ,
according to the  Wall Street Journal . Health-care groups and
even the  National Governors Association  have urged statehouses
to loosen the rules.  This would be a good idea even if the patient population
weren’t about to balloon. There’s no evidence that limits on
nurse practitioners’ roles protect patient safety. A 2002
 literature review  in the British Medical Journal found that
people were more satisfied with the care they received from NPs
than they were with doctors’ care, and such care didn’t lead to
any differences in health outcomes, return consultations,
prescriptions or referrals.  Subsequent papers  have reached the
same conclusions.  Even the  American Medical Association , which opposes
allowing NPs to practice independently, concedes that there is
no evidence that patients get inferior care from them.  The more likely explanation for the continuing restrictions
is resistance from doctors’ groups. The AMA spent  $16.5 million 
on lobbying in 2012, putting it 11th out of more than 4,000
groups tracked by the Center for Responsive Politics. State
medical associations spent more than $1 million on lobbying last
year in both  California  and  Texas , which are among the states
that don’t allow NPs to practice without doctor supervision.  Resistance to nurses providing more care also reflects a
cultural preference, an insistence that the people who diagnose
us have as many years’ training as possible -- even if the
evidence suggests that such training may not be necessary for
primary care.  The Affordable Care Act has made it increasingly difficult
for states to defend that preference. The law will put even more
pressure on the country’s 300,000 practicing primary-care
doctors to meet demand from people who gain health insurance.  Giving NPs more autonomy won’t solve the access problem by
itself, as doctors rightly point out. These providers won’t
necessarily be any more motivated than doctors are to work in
underserved areas. And they may continue to choose to work with
doctors, even if they don’t have to.  Those aren’t reasons to keep the current rules, however.
They’re just a reminder that the U.S. health-care system needs
many adjustments. At least this particular fix is an easy one.
State policy makers should follow the data, relax the
restrictions on nurse practitioners, and move on to harder
issues.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 