-- Portugal’s Bonds Slide on Deficit Concern; Irish Securities Drop
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-08-30T16:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/germany-s-bonds-are-little-changed-after-retail-sales-decline.html
Portuguese bonds fell, pushing 10-year yields to the highest level in almost six weeks, as a
court’s opposition to ending labor contracts for some workers
raised concern the nation will struggle to meet deficit targets.  Ireland’s  10-year yields  climbed the most in almost 10
weeks after a measure of consumer confidence declined for a
second month in August. Italian and Spanish bonds posted a
second weekly loss as euro-area reports showed the  unemployment
rate  stayed at a record high last month and inflation slowed
more in August than economists forecast. German bunds advanced
for the first week in a month.  “If you are a creditor of Portugal, that news doesn’t
sound very good,” said  Luca Jellinek , head of European rate
strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
 London . “It’s the third time the court turns down budget-saving
measures but I don’t think ultimately it’s going to derail
what’s going on in Portugal. It just makes it less efficient and
harder to slim down the state.”  Portugal’s 10-year yield climbed 16 basis points, or 0.16
percentage point, to 6.73 percent at the 5 p.m. close of trading
in London after rising to 6.79 percent, the highest level since
July 22. The 4.95 percent bond due in October 2023 fell 1.04, or
10.40 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,321) face amount, to 87.18.  Not Constitutional  The nation’s  Constitutional Court  said late yesterday the
government’s proposed plan to scrap contracts for some state
workers was not constitutional.  “The Court has never said that the number of public
administration workers cannot be reduced by ending labor
contracts with just cause,” Court President Joaquim Sousa
Ribeiro told reporters in Lisbon yesterday. “What it says is
that it can’t be done in this way.”  Volatility in Portuguese bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets followed by those of Ireland and  Greece , according to
measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Irish bonds extended a third weekly decline as KBC Bank
Ireland said its gauge of  consumer confidence  fell to 66.8 this
month from 682. in July.  The 10-year yield climbed seven basis points to 4.18
percent, the biggest increase since June 24. The rate rose 19
basis points this week.  The securities of the euro area’s high debt and deficit
nations have declined this week as concern the U.S. Federal
Reserve is moving toward withdrawing stimulus and the threat of
a U.S.-led military strike on  Syria  damped demand for higher-yielding assets.  Jobless Rate  The region’s  jobless rate  remained at 12.1 percent in July,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said.
 Consumer prices  rose 1.3 percent in August from a year earlier
after a 1.6 percent increase in July, the statistics office said
in a preliminary estimate.  Italy’s 10-year yield rose three basis points to 4.40
percent, having climbed eight basis points this week. Spanish
10-year rates were little changed at 4.54 percent, leaving this
week’s increase at eight basis points.  Inflation has been below the  European Central Bank ’s 2
percent ceiling for seven months. ECB President  Mario Draghi 
said in July the central bank would keep  interest rates  at the
present level or lower for an “extended period” based on a
“subdued” inflation outlook.  Military Action  German bunds advanced with Treasuries this week as
investors weighed the prospects for U.S.-led military action
against Syria.  France  signaled it might act as the principal U.S. ally in
a military strike. Hours after British lawmakers pulled the U.K.
out of a mission to punish Syria’s use of chemical weapons,
French President  Francois Hollande  said he still favors
delivering a targeted blow, bypassing the  United Nations
Security Council  if needed.  Ten-year bund yields were little changed today at 1.86
percent, having dropped eight basis points this week.  Barclays Plc raised its forecast for German 10-year yields,
saying geopolitical factors will provide only temporary support
for the securities. It now expects the yield to rise to 2.10
percent by Dec. 31 and to 2.50 percent by the end of the third
quarter next year, the bank said in a note to clients yesterday.  Portuguese bonds returned 3.3 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Italy’s
gained 3.7 percent, Spain’s earned 7.4 percent, while  Germany ’s
lost 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  