-- German Stocks Fall to Seven-Week Low as Retail Sales Drop
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-08-30T16:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/german-stocks-decline-as-retail-sales-unexpectedly-fall.html
German stocks  fell, with the
benchmark  DAX (DAX)  dropping to its lowest level in seven weeks, amid
an unexpected decline in retail sales and uncertainty over
potential U.S. military action against Syria.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and  Allianz SE (ALV)  led airlines and
insurers lower, retreating at least 1.5 percent.  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  slid 1.6 percent.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  rose after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. boosted its recommendation on the shares.
 Gildemeister AG (GIL)  added 3.4 percent after Deutsche Bank upgraded
the maker of cutting tools.  The DAX declined 1.1 percent to 8,103.15 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt , the lowest since July 10. The measure has
dropped 3.7 percent this week and 2.1 percent this month amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus and concern
the U.S. and its allies will strike against Bashar al-Assad’s
government. The broader HDAX Index fell 1 percent today.  “We’ll see a very defensive trading session because we’ve
got the long weekend ahead with U.S. stock exchanges closed on
Monday,” said Andreas Lipkow, a senior market strategist at
Kliegel & Hafner AG in Berlin. “People are trying to figure out
what will happen in Syria. Market participants noticed the
retail numbers but will be focused more on the Syria theme.”  U.S. equity markets are closed on Sept. 2 for the Labor Day
holiday.  German  retail sales  adjusted for inflation and seasonal
swings dropped 1.4 percent in July from the month before, when
they declined 0.8 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. Economists had predicted an increase of
0.6 percent, according to the median of 27 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  U.S. Economy  In the U.S.,  consumer spending  rose less than forecast in
July. Purchases advanced 0.1 percent after a revised 0.6 percent
increase the prior month, the Commerce Department said. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists called for a
0.3 percent gain.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  failed to gain
parliamentary approval for a military response against Syria in
a vote late yesterday. White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  said
the administration still plans to publicly release “before the
end of the week” an unclassified version of the intelligence
assessment of the alleged chemical weapons attack in Syria.  Lufthansa, Europe’s second-largest carrier, slid 2 percent
to 13.51 euros, for a weekly decline of 6.4 percent. A gauge of
travel and leisure stocks fell 1.2 percent today and 2.8 percent
on the week. Air Berlin Plc lost 2.7 percent to 1.80 euros.  BMW Drops  BMW fell 1.6 percent to 71.29 euros.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the
world’s third-largest maker of  luxury vehicles , slipped 1.6
percent to 51.92 euros. Preferred shares of  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  fell
1.2 percent to 172.10 euros. Continental AG, Europe’s second-largest auto-parts supplier, lost 1.9 percent to 114.20 euros. A
gauge of automakers was the  worst performer  among the 19
industry groups on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Allianz, Europe’s largest insurer, and  Munich Re , the
world’s biggest reinsurer, slid 1.6 percent to 108.40 euros and
1.5 percent to 137.90 euros, respectively. A gauge of insurers
on the Stoxx 600 fell 1.6 percent.  Deutsche Bank rose 0.7 percent to 32.76 euros, paring an
earlier gain of as much 2.4 percent, as JPMorgan upgraded the
shares to overweight, meaning that investors should hold more of
the shares than are represented in benchmark indexes, from
neutral.  Germany ’s largest bank is the “cheapest” euro-region
lender and concern about capital adequacy is “more than
discounted,” JPMorgan said.  Gildemeister surged 3.4 percent to 16.84 euros. Deutsche
Bank raised its recommendation on the shares to buy from hold,
citing less risk and more synergy potential after the company
announced a capital increase.  LEG Immobilien AG added 1 percent to 40.69 euros. Germany’s
second-largest residential landlord by market value said first-half profit rose 11 percent after the company increased rental
income and lowered financing costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  