-- Ghana Yields Seen Dropping From Two-Month Highs as Vote Upheld
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-08-30T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/ghana-yields-seen-dropping-from-two-month-highs-as-vote-upheld.html
Yields on  Ghana ’s cedi debt are set
to retreat from a two-month high after President John Dramani Mahama’s election win was upheld by a court decision, easing
concern of political instability.  In a majority decision, the Accra-based Supreme Court
yesterday confirmed Mahama’s December victory, setting aside
opposition allegations that vote counting was marred by
irregularities. The threat of unrest accelerated the cedi’s
decline against the dollar, with the currency falling 8.4
percent from May 1 through yesterday from a 3.6 percent drop in
the first four months of 2013.  Yields at a central bank auction of 600 million cedis ($279
million) of five-year notes due to take place next month, the
first sale of securities of that duration in 2013, may be 17
percent to 19 percent, said Elvis Darku, head of fixed income at
the Ghanaian unit of  Nigeria ’s  Access Bank Plc. (ACCESS)  Local-currency
notes due August 2017 traded at 21.25 percent yesterday. That
matched the rate on June 17, which was the highest since August
2012, according to data from Standard Chartered Plc compiled by
Bloomberg.  “I would expect bond market indicators to head in the
direction of government plans,” Darku said by phone yesterday.
The ruling “will stop all uncertainty about the nation and
investing here. The government too will be more focused and I
expect them to move quickly and tackle the economic issues.”  Mahama, 54, is facing the challenge of narrowing a  budget
deficit  that widened to 12.1 percent of gross domestic product
last year from 4.3 percent in 2011. The  Finance Ministry 
forecasts a 9 percent gap this year and economic growth of 8
percent compared 7.9 percent in 2012. The court dismissed a a
suit lodged by Nana Akufo-Addo, 69, leader of the opposition New
Patriotic Party.  Import Demand  Yields on Ghana’s Eurobonds due August 2023 have risen 32
basis points to 8.32 percent since they began trading on Aug. 1,
while average African yields are unchanged this month at 6.79
percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  indexes . Nigeria’s
10-year dollar debt, sold three weeks before Ghana’s, advanced 8
basis points in the period.  Growth has driven demand for imports and added to pressure
on the cedi as companies seek dollars to pay for goods. The
currency has dropped 12 percent against the dollar this year,
 Africa ’s worst performer after the South African rand and the
Namibian dollar, which is linked to the rand. It weakened 0.2
percent to 2.1550 per dollar by 4:31 p.m. in Accra yesterday.  With  the resolution of the election dispute, the cedi may
gain 0.7 percent from current levels by the end of the year,
Darku said.  “I expect the markets to stabilize more quickly with
Mahama declared winner than if Nana Addo was declared winner,”
Collins Appiah, director of asset management at Accra-based NDK
Financial Services Ltd., which lends money to small- and medium-sized businesses, said by phone yesterday.  Yields Rise  Before the verdict, which could have seen the court order a
re-run of the election, buyers preferred “holding dollar-denominated assets compared with their cedi counterparts,”
Appiah said.  Yields on debt due May 2016 rose to 21 percent yesterday on
the secondary market from 19.24 percent at an auction on May 30.
With Mahama’s victory, “I see the yields trending back to their
auction levels by December,” Appiah said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  