-- Google Buys Smart-Watch Maker WIMM to Challenge Rivals
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-08-30T23:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/google-buys-smart-watch-maker-wimm-to-challenge-rivals.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , which develops the
Android software used on mobile devices, has purchased
smartwatch designer WIMM Labs, stepping up efforts against
competitors in the wearable-computing market.  Google, which didn’t provide details on the acquisition,
completed the deal in 2012, the company said in an e-mailed
statement.  WIMM Labs , based in Los Altos,  California , had
unveiled a smartwatch design in 2011 that included a full-color
touch screen, Internet access and sensors for tracking the
owner’s motions, the company  said .  Google, owner of the world’s largest search engine, is
ramping up in wearable computing to woo consumers in the
emerging industry. The purchase comes as new smartwatch devices
are on tap from rivals  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co.
Samsung’s Galaxy Gear, a wristwatch-like device with features of
a smartphone, will be introduced Sept. 4, people with knowledge
of the matter have said.  Already, Google has unveiled “Glass” devices,
computerized eyewear that lets users check e-mail or access the
Web. The devices, now being used by early testers and
developers, aren’t yet widely available for consumers.  The company has made no official announcements about plans
for a smartwatch.  WIMM Labs had  received  funding from Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co., the flagship company of Foxconn Technology Group.
The management team had included former executives from  Intel
Corp . and Apple, the company said.  “During the summer of 2012, WIMM Labs entered into an
exclusive, confidential relationship for our technology,” the
company says on its website.  Blogger GigaOm earlier reported on the acquisition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net ; 