-- Gulf Coast Ship Rate Nears 4-Week High as Exports Surge
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-08-30T14:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/gulf-coast-ship-rate-nears-4-week-high-as-exports-surge.html
Charter rates  for tankers from the
U.S. Gulf Coast to Europe surged to the highest level in almost
four weeks as a boost in exports from the Gulf Coast reduced the
number of available tankers.  Rates for Medium-Range tankers on the Gulf Coast-to-northwest Europe route jumped  16 percent  from last week to 96
Worldscale points yesterday, the highest level since Aug. 2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The points are a
percentage of a flat rate for a particular route, which is
revised annually by the Worldscale Association in  London  to
reflect changing fuel costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The number of tankers chartered from the Gulf Coast rose to
25 last week from 22 a week earlier, according to shipbroker
Charles R. Weber Co. Exports from the U.S. refining hub are
climbing as Gulf refiners process  the most fuel  for this time of
year in at least two decades while plants in Europe reduce
production.  “Rates are up because there are less ships available,”
said Tom Finlon, director of Energy Analytics Group Ltd., who is
based in Jupiter,  Florida . “Low refinery rates in Europe have
enabled more refined product exports from the U.S. and allowed
the Gulf Coast to avoid big accumulations in inventory, which
helps maintain prices.”  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel  on the Gulf held steady at 2.75
cents below New York Mercantile Exchange ULSD futures yesterday,
while  conventional, 85-octane gasoline  was unchanged an 11.5-cent discount to futures.  European Refiners  European refinery runs in the third quarter of 2013 are
expected to be 400,000 barrels a day below a year earlier, while
a growing market for refined product exports to Latin America
helped sustain high  U.S. refinery runs  this summer, the
International Energy Agency said in an Aug. 9 report.  U.S. distillate exports, including diesel and heating oil,
increased 18 percent to a record 1.29 million barrels a day in
June from a year earlier, the Energy Information Administration
said yesterday.  Gulf Coast refiners  processed  8.27 million barrels a day of
crude and other feedstocks in the week ended Aug. 23, the
highest seasonal level in EIA data back to 1992.  “Utilization rates in the U.S. are very high and European
runs are disproportionately lower, which accommodates a
significant flow to Europe,” Finlon said in a phone interview.
“There’s a very consistent volume going to Latin America.”  Gulf Coast processing may fall in the coming weeks as the
nation’s largest refinery undergoes unplanned work, limiting
exports, said Amrita Sen, chief oil market strategist at Energy
Aspects Ltd.  Motiva Outage  Motiva Enterprises LLC’s 600,000-barrel-a-day  Port Arthur,
Texas, refinery  is performing repairs on a hydrocracker that
caught fire Aug. 17 and expects to restart it, along with the
plant’s largest crude unit, in a week or so, a person familiar
with the work said yesterday.  “With the Motiva outage, you’re going to see the softening
of product exports of from the U.S. Gulf Coast,” Sen said in a
phone interview yesterday. “We should also see prices rise in
the coming week because of the outage.”  Stockpiles of gasoline on the U.S. Gulf Coast, referred to
as PADD 3, climbed to  76.6 million barrels  in the week ended
Aug. 23, while distillate inventories dropped to 41.6 million
barrels, the  lowest level since  July 26, EIA data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  