-- Mickelson Leads PGA’s Boston Playoff After 28 on First Nine
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-08-30T17:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/mickelson-shoots-28-on-first-nine-to-lead-pga-s-boston-playoff.html
Phil Mickelson holds a one-shot lead
in the first round of the  Deutsche Bank Championship , where he
had seven birdies through his opening nine holes.  The British Open champion finished his first round at 8-under-par 63 at the TPC Boston golf course in Norton,
 Massachusetts , site of the second event of the U.S. PGA Tour’s
playoff series. It’s his lowest career round at the course.  Mickelson, playing in a group with Tiger Woods and Adam Scott, winner of last week’s Barclays event and the Masters
Tournament, had eight birdies, an eagle and two bogeys. He
finished his first nine holes with a score of 28, putting him in
position for a record-tying round of 59.  His final nine holes produced a 1-under-par 35, capped by a
bogey on the ninth hole when the five-time major champion hit
his tee shot into a wooded area. Mickelson sits one shot ahead
of Kevin Stadler and two in front of Hunter Mahan.  “I wasn’t too worried about shooting 59,” Mickelson said
in a televised interview with the Golf Channel. “I was more
worried about keeping it in the low 60s. I made two bad swings
today, otherwise I hit a lot of good ones.”  The left hander began play on the course’s 10th hole with
consecutive birdies and closed the opening nine with another
five birdies in a row. He then bogeyed his 10th hole after
hitting an approach shot in a greenside bunker before making an
eagle on the par-5 second hole to reach 8-under. He parred the
next five holes before a birdie-bogey finish.  In January, Mickelson narrowly missed a chance to become
the sixth golfer to complete a round of 59 in an official U.S.
PGA Tour event when a 25-foot birdie putt on his final hole
caught the lip of the cup and spun out. He went on to win the
tournament at 28-under par, the second-best score for a 72-hole
event in U.S. PGA Tour history.  Historic 59ers  Stuart Appleby was the most recent player to shoot a 59 on
the PGA Tour, during the final round of the 2010 Greenbrier
Classic. Paul Goydos, David Duval, Chip Beck and Al Geiberger
are the only other golfers with 59s in an official PGA Tour
round. Bo Van Pelt shot a 59 during the Phoenix Open Pro-Am two
days ago.  Mickelson has shot 60 three times in his career.  Woods, a two-time winner of golf’s season-long FedEx Cup
points competition, shot 3-under 68, while Scott shot 2-over 73.  The top 100 players on the points list following the
Barclays qualified for the Boston event. After this week, the
top 70 move on to the BMW Championship outside  Chicago  from
Sept. 12 to 15. The top 30 in the standings then compete for the
FedEx Cup title and its $10 million bonus at the Tour
Championship in Atlanta from Sept. 19 to 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  