-- Microsoft Signs Pact to Cooperate With Activist ValueAct
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-08-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/microsoft-signs-pact-to-cooperate-with-activist-valueact.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  signed a pact to
cooperate with ValueAct Holdings LP, an agreement that could
bring an activist shareholder onto the board of the world’s
largest software maker as it undergoes a leadership change.  Microsoft said yesterday that it will hold regular meetings
with ValueAct Capital President Mason Morfit and “selected
Microsoft directors and management to discuss a range of
significant business issues.” The Redmond, Washington-based
company said ValueAct has the option of having Morfit become a
director beginning at the first quarterly board meeting of 2014.  “Our board and management team are committed to enhancing
growth and value for Microsoft shareholders, and we look forward
to ValueAct Capital’s input,” Microsoft Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Ballmer  said in a statement.  The announcement came at yesterday’s deadline for proxy
contests and other matters for the company’s November
shareholder meeting, and during a period of drastic change for
Microsoft. Beset by competitors including Apple Inc. and Google
Inc. that have shifted the technology landscape away from
Microsoft’s core personal-computer industry, the company last
week said CEO Ballmer would be retiring within 12 months.  Microsoft’s board has established a search committee to
seek a new CEO. If Morfit joins as a director next year, he
could become involved in the search if a successor to Ballmer
hasn’t yet been found.  ValueAct’s Goals  ValueAct in April had disclosed a stake of about $1.9
billion in Microsoft. The investor has been seeking a return of
more money, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.
Microsoft has  $77 billion  in cash and investments.  ValueAct had also been negotiating for a board seat, a
person with knowledge of the matter said in July. If the
shareholder didn’t reach an agreement with Microsoft, ValueAct
was mulling a proxy contest to gain a seat, the person said.  “It’s a concession to shareholders,” said  Sid Parakh , an
analyst at McAdams Wright Ragen in  Seattle . “They do realize
they would have probably lost a proxy battle which wasn’t worth
it, so it seems like it’s a good compromise.”  Representatives for ValueAct didn’t return calls for
comment. In a statement, Morfit said Microsoft is at a
“critical inflection point” and added that he was looking
forward to working with the board and management.  ValueAct’s Stake  Microsoft said ValueAct owns about 0.8 percent of its
shares outstanding and has $12 billion under management. The
pact means ValueAct will not be involved in discussions of this
year’s annual dividend, which typically take place at the
board’s September meeting.  Under the agreement, ValueAct also said it wouldn’t propose
or seek any extraordinary transaction like an exchange offer and
wouldn’t pursue or participate in a proxy contest.  ValueAct also favors having Microsoft focus more on
business software and Internet-based cloud services, putting
less emphasis on consumer products, said the person with
knowledge of the matter. In several years, “we’ll stop talking
about PC cycles and instead talk about Microsoft as the largest
cloud-computing company in the world,” ValueAct CEO Jeffrey Ubben said in April.  Activists have recently targeted other technology
companies. Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  is pushing Apple Inc.
to return more of its $146.6 billion in cash via a buyback, and
has fought for  Dell Inc. (DELL)  to remain public and pay out money
instead of going private in a leveraged buyout.  Past Targets  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in November 2011 added Ralph Whitworth
to its board after the co-founder of activist investing firm
Relational Investors LLC amassed a stake and pushed for changes.
Whitworth became chairman in April amid a second board overhaul
while CEO Meg Whitman struggles to turn around a business facing
a historic PC industry slump.  Ubben started ValueAct in 2000 after working at Blum
Capital Partners LP, a San Francisco investment firm. He assumed
the role of chairman at  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia (MSO)  Inc. in
2003 after Stewart was indicted for lying to regulators about a
stock sale.  Prior investments ranged from stakes in Sara Lee Corp. to
Moody’s Corp., the New York-based credit rating firm. In August
2006, ValueAct reported holding a 3.3 percent stake in Reuters
Plc, then the world’s largest publicly traded provider of
financial data; Reuters later agreed to be acquired by Thomson
Corp.  ValueAct initially took a stake in Microsoft during the
first quarter, reporting that the firm held 33.4 million common
shares. By June 30, the stake had increased to 57.8 million
shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  