-- Tiger Woods Says Back Feels Good Entering 2nd PGA Playoff Event
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/tiger-woods-says-back-feels-good-entering-2nd-pga-playoff-event.html
Tiger Woods said he enters golf’s
Deutsche Bank Championship feeling no ill-effects from the back
spasms that dropped him to his knees during the final round of
the U.S. PGA Tour’s first playoff event five days ago.  Woods played in the Deutsche Bank pro-am yesterday outside
 Boston  and took full swings for the first time since tying for
second place behind Adam Scott in last week’s Barclays
tournament in Jersey City, New Jersey.  Woods, 37, was bothered by back spasms during several
swings over the final seven holes at the Barclays and pulled out
of a charity event held two days ago in upstate New York because
of the injury. He said he spent the past several days receiving
treatment, including ice, ultrasound, electrical stimulation and
soft-tissue massage.  “I’ve gotten treatment every day, two to three times a
day,” Woods said yesterday. “And it feels good.”  Woods, who leads the FedEx Cup point standings, had planned
to play only nine holes yesterday at the TPC Boston while
working on his chipping and putting. Because his back felt good,
he played the full 18 and said he hit driver on just about every
hole while playing with New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg
and three other amateurs. The mayor is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  “It was the first day I hit balls or swung a club since
Sunday,” said Woods, who has five PGA Tour victories this
season. “And it was a pleasant surprise to go out there and
play without any discomfort.”  Marquee Group  The PGA Tour’s second playoff event has a Friday start
because it finishes on the U.S. Labor Day holiday on Monday.
Woods is scheduled to tee off today at 8:40 a.m. local time with
Scott and Phil Mickelson in a grouping of the top three players
in the Official World Golf Ranking.  “If it’s Tiger and Phil it’s a good grouping, isn’t it?”
said Scott, whose one-shot win at the Barclays came four months
after his victory at the Masters Tournament. “They’re the big
show and it’s fun to be involved in that atmosphere. I think
I’ve learned to enjoy being a part of all that and gotten
somewhat comfortable with it.”  The Deutsche Bank Championship is the second of the four
PGA Tour playoff events to determine the winner of the FedEx Cup
and its $10 million bonus. The field this week is comprised of
the top 100 players in the FedEx Cup standings.  Because Woods leads the  points table , he could have skipped
the tournament and still be among the 70 players who go on to
contest the third playoff event, the BMW Championship, which is
scheduled to begin Sept. 12 after a one-week break.  “Hopefully my back will stay where it’s at right now and,
if not, improve so I can start doing the other little exercises,
start strengthening it and getting back to where it needs to
be,” Woods said.  The PGA Tour playoffs conclude with the top 30 players
contesting the Tour Championship from Sept. 19-22 in Atlanta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  