-- Miller to Be Acting U.S. Treasury Deputy as Wolin Leaves
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-08-30T19:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/miller-to-be-acting-u-s-treasury-deputy-as-wolin-leaves-1-.html
Mary Miller , the  U.S. Treasury 
Department’s undersecretary for domestic finance, will become
acting deputy Treasury secretary following next week’s departure
of Neal Wolin.  Wolin will leave office on Sept. 3, said a Treasury
official who spoke on condition of not being further identified.
Miller will be second in command while the nomination of  Sarah Bloom Raskin , whom President  Barack Obama  on July 31 picked to
become the first female deputy secretary, goes through the
Senate confirmation process.  Miller, 58, has been one of the Obama administration’s top
officials overseeing implementation of the Dodd-Frank financial
regulation law, including the Volcker rule restrictions on
proprietary trading.  The Treasury official said Miller will hold the No. 2
position on an acting basis in accordance with a standing
Treasury order that makes the undersecretary for domestic
finance the acting deputy when necessary.  Miller has been overseeing work by the staff of the
Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of regulators
charged with preventing a crisis.  Treasury Secretary  Jacob J.
Lew is the council’s chairman. Miller has also been part of the
administration’s efforts to overhaul the housing finance system
and is responsible for the Treasury’s management of the public
debt.  Miller was assistant secretary for financial markets from
February 2010 until March 2012, when she was confirmed as
undersecretary by the Senate.  Miller is well-known in the asset management industry
because she spent 26 years at T. Rowe Price Inc., including as
director of fixed income, head of the municipal bond department
and portfolio manager.  Wolin’s departure was  announced  by the Treasury on July 23.
He was a key negotiator with Congress on the Dodd-Frank law that
was signed by President Obama in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  