-- India’s Rupee Has Worst Month Since 1992 on Slowdown Concern
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-08-30T12:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/india-s-rupee-set-for-worst-month-since-1992-on-slowdown-concern.html
India ’s rupee completed its biggest
monthly loss since 1992, the world’s worst currency performance,
on concern a deepening economic slowdown will deter investors as
the U.S. prepares to pare stimulus.  The currency slumped to a record this week as a surge in
 oil prices  amid political tension over  Syria  threatened to widen
the current-account deficit and push  Asia ’s No. 3 economy toward
its biggest crisis in more than two decades. Global funds
increased sales of local assets this week as UBS AG, BNP Paribas
SA and  Standard Chartered  Plc cut growth forecasts for India.
The rupee pared losses after the central bank said on Aug. 28 it
will supply dollars directly to local oil importers.  “Markets are increasingly concerned about a negative
feedback loop between the rupee and India’s fundamentals,”
analysts at Standard Chartered, including Mumbai-based Samiran Chakraborty, wrote in a research report yesterday. “That said,
we think that worries about a 1991-style balance-of-payments
crisis are exaggerated.”  The rupee plunged 8.1 percent this month to 65.7050 per
dollar in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg. This is the biggest drop since March 1992 and the
steepest among 78 global currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
currency rose 1.4 percent today, paring the week’s loss to 3.6
percent. The rupee touched an unprecedented 68.8450 on Aug. 28.  Singh’s Defense  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh today defended his economic
record in parliament in one of his strongest attacks on the
opposition, saying policy changes in the past year will help
stem the rupee’s plunge and revive growth. A government report
today showed the economy expanded 4.4 percent in the quarter to
June 30, the slowest pace since 2009 and short of the median 4.7
percent estimated by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Global funds have withdrawn a combined $2.2 billion from
Indian stocks and  bonds  this month, exchange data show.  Brent
crude  rose 7 percent in August as U.S. Secretary of State  John
Kerry  said President  Barack Obama  will hold the Syrian
government accountable for using chemical weapons against
civilians. U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron yesterday failed to
gain parliamentary backing for military action.  The rupee surged the most since 1986 yesterday after the
 Reserve Bank  of India said it will sell dollars to the largest
oil refiners through swaps to cool demand for foreign exchange.
The central bank announced the decision after the currency
plummeted the most in 20 years on Aug. 28.  RBI Intervention  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, surged 693 basis
points, or 6.93 percentage point, this month to 20.73 percent.  The rupee pared declines today on speculation the central
bank intervened in the  currency market  to sell dollars,
according to two traders, who asked not to be identified as the
information isn’t public.  The government will contain the shortfall in the current
account to within 3.7 percent of gross domestic product in the
year through March 2014, Finance Minister Palaniappan
Chidambaram said Aug. 12, from an unprecedented 4.8 percent in
the prior period. That would still be higher than the 2.5
percent the RBI considers sustainable.  The rupee’s drop is driven by domestic structural factors,
while the speed and timing of the plunge is due to speculation
about the U.S. scaling back stimulus, RBI Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao , whose term ends next week, said in a speech yesterday.
 Raghuram Rajan , the economist credited with predicting the 2008
financial crisis, will take charge of India’s central bank on
Sept. 5.  Standard Chartered now predicts the economy will grow 4.7
percent this fiscal year, compared with a previous forecast of
5.5 percent. UBS cut its projection to 4.7 percent from 5.2
percent and BNP to 3.7 percent from 5.2 percent.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards rose 1 percent today to
67.65 per dollar, extending the month’s drop to 10 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show, Offshore non-deliverable contracts
advanced 1.1 percent to 68.30. Forwards are agreements to buy or
sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts
are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  