-- India Doubles Gold Futures Margins as Prices Rally to Record
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-08-30T10:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/india-increases-margins-on-gold-futures-as-prices-jump-to-record.html
India ’s commodity markets regulator
ordered exchanges to double margins on gold futures after a
record plunge in the nation’s currency fueled a rally in bullion
priced in rupees to an all-time high.  Initial margins on all contracts will rise to 5 percent of
the value from Sept. 2, from 4 percent, the  Forward Markets
Commission  said on website. An additional margin of 5 percent
will be levied on gold, silver,  Brent crude , crude oil, and
natural gas contracts due to high volatility in prices and it
will be effective until further orders, it said.  Futures on the  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. (MCX)  in
Mumbai advanced to a record this week, rebounding 32 percent
from a two-year low in June, threatening jewelry demand during
the main festival season. Consumption in the country, which
imports almost all the bullion it needs, accounted for about 20
percent of global demand in 2012, according to data from the
World Gold Council.  “When the market is moving so sharply, the regulator will
have to take some measures,” said Madhavi Mehta, an analyst at
Kotak Commodity Services Ltd. in Mumbai. “But for
internationally traded commodities it is difficult to curb
volatility.  It is a derived volatility in the domestic market
because of the movement in global markets and the rupee.”  The contract for delivery in October surged to a record of
35,074 rupees per 10 grams ($529) on the  Multi Commodity
Exchange  on Aug. 28 and was at 32,791 rupees at 3:56 p.m. in
Mumbai. Futures have gained 6.3 percent this year, compared with
a 17 percent drop in the metal priced in dollars.  Rupee Slump  India’s rupee is headed for its biggest monthly loss since
1992, the world’s worst currency performance, on concern a
deepening economic slowdown will deter investors at a time when
the U.S. prepares to pare stimulus. It fell to a record low of
68.8450 on Aug. 28 and has lost 17 percent this year.  The government raised  import taxes  on gold three times this
year to 10 percent to moderate consumption that has contributed
to the slide in the rupee and a record  current account deficit .
Banks and traders have halted imports since the end of July
after the central bank linked inbound shipments to re-exports.  Higher tariffs and central-bank rules linking overseas
purchases to re-exports may cut India’s imports in the second
half to not more than 150 metric tons from 478 tons in 2012 and
spur smuggling, according to Bachhraj Bamalwa, a director with
the All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation.  Value of trade on all commodity exchanges in India fell 14
percent to 53.82 trillion rupees during between April 1 and Aug.
15, data from the regulator showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  