-- Slowest India Growth Since 2009 Pressures Singh to Support Rupee
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-08-30T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/indian-growth-slows-to-four-year-low-as-rupee-drop-dims-outlook.html
India’s slowest economic expansion
since 2009 adds pressure on Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  to
stem a slide in the rupee that forced the central bank to raise
 interest rates .  Gross domestic product  rose 4.4 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, compared with 4.8 percent in
the prior quarter, the Statistics Ministry said in  New Delhi 
yesterday. The median of 44 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 4.7 percent gain.  The rupee has slumped 16 percent versus the dollar this
year as India’s record current-account deficit made it
vulnerable to an outflow of capital from  emerging markets ,
spurred by the prospect of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus. The
 Reserve Bank  of India raised rates in July to support the
currency and contain inflation, imperiling economic expansion
even as Singh pledges to revive investment.  “The government is going to struggle to turn around the
economy until it gets the deficit, consumer-price inflation and
the  exchange rate  under control,” said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, an economist at ICICI Securities Primary
Dealership Ltd. in Mumbai. “This may take some time, and growth
is at risk in the meantime.”  The rupee, which reached a record low of 68.845 per dollar
on Aug. 28, climbed 1.4 percent to 65.705 at the close in Mumbai.
The RBI three days ago said it will supply dollars to the
largest oil importers to cool foreign-exchange demand. The S&P
BSE Sensex  index  rose 1.2 percent. The yield on the 7.16 percent
bond due May 2023 fell to 8.60 from 8.77 percent on Aug. 29.  Capital Outflows  Nations from  Indonesia  to  Brazil  are trying to bolster
their currencies as foreign investors exit on concern the
 Federal Reserve  will  taper  $85 billion a month of debt purchases
that boosted the capital circulating in the global economy.  The RBI is set to sustain and may even extend recent
monetary tightening, according to BNP Paribas SA. While a good
monsoon is helping farm output, other risks mean GDP expansion
may dip to 3.7 percent in the year ending March 2014, BNP said.
Average growth in the past 10 years is about 8 percent.  The RBI has raised the marginal standing facility and bank
rates and capped cash injections into the banking system since
July, while keeping the benchmark repurchase rate unchanged.  Private consumption growth eased to 1.6 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, from a 3.8 percent pace in
previous three-month period, yesterday’s report showed.
 Government spending  jumped 10.5 percent, while investment slid
1.2 percent.  Foreign Reserves  Rupee weakness threatens to stoke consumer-price  inflation 
of almost 10 percent, the fastest in a basket of 17 Asia-Pacific
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  The drop has also revived memories of India’s 1990s crisis,
when the nation needed an International Monetary Fund loan as
foreign reserves waned. Singh said this month growth will speed
up and India won’t face a repeat of that turmoil.  India’s reserves of about $278 billion are adequate near
term, Moody’s Investors Service said Aug. 19. Fiscal policy
remains the weakest aspect of Asia’s No. 3 economy, it said.  The RBI must boost currency holdings to anchor the rupee,
and options include a sovereign-bond issue or deposits to tap
 India ’s diaspora, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Singh’s coalition, beset by graft scandals and seeking
support before polls due by May, won parliamentary backing this
week for bills providing cheap grains to the poor and assuring
fairer terms for farmers when companies buy their land.  Singh’s Agenda  Legislation to allow increased foreign investment in the
pensions and insurance industries and simplify taxes is pending.
Opposition protests over graft have repeatedly disrupted
parliament for more than two years.  The government has tried since 2012 to tackle deficits, woo
inflows, speed up construction projects and avert a credit-rating cut. The steps range from higher taxes on gold imports to
more liberal foreign-direct investment rules.  “The macro-stabilization process which should support the
value of the rupee is under way,” Singh said in parliament in
New Delhi yesterday. “As the fruits of our efforts materialize,
 currency markets  will recover.”  The government predicts the current-account imbalance may
narrow to about $70 billion this fiscal year and targets a
budget gap of 4.8 percent of GDP.  Cooling demand in the nation of 1.2 billion people, about
two-thirds of whom live on less than  $2 per day , is hampering
corporate expansion. Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., India’s largest
carmaker, has delayed a plan to build a plant in Gujarat state.  India’s slowdown contrasts with more resilient expansion in
neighbors such as  China , which grew 7.5 percent last quarter.  The South Asian nation’s vulnerability is being “clearly
exposed by an unfavorable external environment,” said  Eswar Prasad , who teaches economics at  Cornell University  in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  