-- Indonesia With Malaysia to Support Palm Prices by More Biodiesel
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-08-30T05:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/indonesia-with-malaysia-to-support-palm-prices-by-more-biodiesel.html
  Indonesia  and  Malaysia , the world’s
top  palm oil  producers, will accelerate biodiesel programs to
boost consumption after prices tumbled last month to the lowest
level in more than three years.  Prices will be stabilized “through more domestic
consumption and implementation of biodiesel,” Douglas Uggah
Embas, Malaysia’s Plantation Industries and Commodities Minister
told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today after a meeting with
Suswono, Agriculture Minister for Indonesia.  Futures traded in Kuala Lumpur plunged to the lowest level
since October 2009 as supplies of the world’s most-consumed
cooking oil exceeded demand. Global  stockpiles  of the oil that’s
used in everything from candy to biofuel will surge 21 percent
to a record 9.7 million metric tons by the end of 2013-2014 as
demand expands 4.6 percent, the least in 12 years, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  says.  The contract for delivery in November fell as much as 1.6
percent to 2,402 ringgit ($729) a metric ton and ended the
morning trading session at 2,414 ringgit on the Bursa Malaysia
Derivatives. Futures, which dropped 20 percent in the past year,
are set to rise 8 percent this month, the biggest monthly gain
since December 2010.  Indonesia will increase its biodiesel blend requirements to
cut spending on imports, Susilo Siswoutomo, deputy energy
minister, said yesterday. The government issued a regulation
increasing required biodiesel content to 10 percent from 7.5
percent in diesel oil sold to industrial users and motorists.  Malaysia is gradually increasing the blend of palm oil in
biodiesel and in petroleum diesel to 10 percent from 5 percent
to reduce stockpiles. Inventories have declined 37 percent to
1.66 million tons in July from a record in December, according
to data from the nation’s palm oil board.  Palm oil may average 2,395 ringgit a ton in the third
quarter and around 2,438 ringgit in the fourth quarter as
improving Chinese and U.S. economies support prices, Embas said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  