-- Intellectual Ventures, Beasley, BSA:Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-08-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/intellectual-ventures-beasley-bsa-intellectual-property.html
Intellectual Ventures, the so-called
“invention company” begun by former Microsoft Corp. chief
technology officer  Nathan Myhrvold , has set up an in-house
lobbying team in  Washington ,  according  to the Washington Post.  The focus of the lobbying efforts will include patent
reform, intellectual property rights and taxation of patent
royalties for the company that has bought more than 70,000
patents, the newspaper reported.  Robert Merbeth, former vice president of government affairs
at San Diego’s Cricket Communications Inc., will lead the
office, according to the Post.  Merbeth told the Post that while in the past Bellevue,
Washington-based Intellectual Ventures has had an under-the-radar presence in the capitol, the goal of the new office is to
educate Congress and the administration on its issues, and be
more consistently visible.  University of Alabama Captures Carbon Dioxide Patent  The  University of Alabama  received a patent for a method of
capturing carbon dioxide.  Patent 8,506,914, issued Aug. 13, covers a method of using
the class of organic solvents known as imidazolium-based
compounds to capture carbon dioxide from industrial emissions.  The named inventor on the patent is  Professor Jason E.
Bara , in the university’s departments of chemical and biological
engineering. According to Bara’s website, his research focuses
on the development of processes for clean energy generation that
use new solvents with little or no volatility for scrubbing
carbon dioxide emissions.  The university said in a  statement  that the technology
covered by the patent has been licensed to  Ion Engineering  of
Boulder, Colorado, a clean-tech company.  The school applied for the patent in March 2012, with the
assistance of  Meunier Carlin & Curfman LLC  of Atlanta.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Beasley, Sun Settle Trademark Dispute Over Call Letters  Beasley Broadcasting Group Inc. (BBGI)  and its competitor Sun
Broadcasting Inc. settled a trademark suit, according to an Aug.
21 court filing.  The two companies, both Florida-based radio broadcasters,
were feuding over the letter “X.” The dispute had its origins
in a change of format for one of Beasley’s radio stations, WJBX-FM. According to court papers, the station’s location on the FM
dial is 99.3, and Beasley promoted the station as “99X,” using
a neon green logo.  On June 20, Beasley changed the station’s format from music
to sports talk, affiliated it with the ESPN network, and changed
the call letters. The rock music formerly available on that
station is now heard on Beasley’s WRXK-FM station at 96.1 FM.  The Naples, Florida-based company said it continues to use
its “X” marks on outdoor sings, business cards, on-air
materials and promotional items.  The same day Beasley changed formats, Fort Myers-based Sun
sent out a press release announcing that it would now “pleased
to offer the X brand” a new home at a different frequency. The
press release mentioned that Beasley’s “incredibly loyal
audience was outraged to lose their brand,” Beasley said in its
complaint filed in federal court July 12.  The company also objected to Sun’s use of a neon green logo
containing the “X” and written in the same font that Beasley
used.  The case was dismissed on Beasley’s request Aug. 21. Court
filings don’t mention any settlement terms.  The case is Beasley FM Acquisition Corp. v. Sun
Broadcasting Inc., 2:13-cv-00516-JES-UAM.  Insurer Seeks Indian Trademark for Hindi Word for Insurance  An insurance company in Hyderbad,  India , filed an
application to register the Hindi word for insurance as a
trademark in that country, The Hindu newspaper’s Business Line
website  reported .  MFL Insurance Services is seeking to register “Bima” in
spite of objections from other insurance companies, according to
Business Line.  The competitors say the word is too generic to be afforded
trademark protection, Business Line reported.  Last week India’s Intellectual Property Appeal Board
rejected an application from  Britannia Industries Ltd. (BRIT)  to
register “Snax” on the grounds it was phonetically similar to
“Snacks,” which is a generic term, according to Business Line.  Counterfeit Goods Worth $5.1 Million Seized in Two U.S. Raids  U.S. Customs  and  Border Protection  seized $5.1 million
worth of fake  consumer goods  in two separate actions, according
to Aug. 27 government statements.  In  New Jersey , at the port of  Newark , a shipment of 70,000
items coming from  China  with an estimated value of $3.9 million
was seized. Among the categories of fake products were razor
blades, toys, sunglasses, markers and batteries, the government
 said .  Customs officials worked with the Consumer Products Safety
Commission, and used the commission’s health and safety rules to
target the cargo for physical examination, the government said.  At Los Angeles International Airport, customs seized 215
watches, which, had they been genuine, would have had an
aggregate retail price of $1.2 million.  Among the companies whose trademarks were found on the
counterfeits were Rolex Group, Omega SA, Cartier International,
and  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA. (MC)  These fakes also
originated in China, the government  said.   The shipping manifest for the watches listed a declared
value of only $173, according to the government’s statement.
During the 2012 fiscal year, the government said it seized fake
watches and jewelry with a retail value of $186 million.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  New Zealand Police Say No Criminal Charges in Dotcom Spying Case  New Zealand police  yesterday ruled out filing criminal
charges in relation to the government spying on Internet
entrepreneur Kim Dotcom.  While the Government Communications & Security Bureau did
contravene the Crimes Act by intercepting communications between
Dotcom and an associate, it “did not have the necessary intent
to satisfy the elements of the offense and be considered
criminally liable,” police said in a statement. “No criminal
charges will be laid against any person.”  Prime Minister John Key was forced to apologize to Dotcom
in September for the GCSB’s surveillance of him during a U.S.-
led operation to close his Megaupload website on piracy charges
earlier last year. The government this month changed the law to
allow the GCSB to spy on New Zealand citizens under certain
circumstances. The agency was previously restricted to
monitoring “foreign” communications, organizations and people.  While Dotcom was born in  Germany  as Kim Schmitz, he has New
Zealand residency.  Dotcom still faces extradition to the U.S., which has
described his cloud-storage Internet site as the biggest
copyright infringement case in its history.  Armed police stormed Dotcom’s Auckland mansion in January
last year, seizing 18  luxury vehicles , including a 1959 pink
Cadillac, art, cash, computers and hard drives.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  BSA Hires Victoria Espinel, Former U.S. IP Czar, as President  The  Business Software Alliance  has named  Victoria Espinel 
president and chief executive officer, the Washington-based
software-industry advocacy group said in a  statement  yesterday.  Espinel left her post as the first U.S.  Intellectual
Property  Enforcement Coordinator earlier this month. Known
informally as the Obama administration’s IP czar, Espinel had
served for four years, developing and implementing the
administration’s strategy for intellectual property enforcement.  Before that she was senior counsel for intellectual
property issues at the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative
and assistant U.S. trade representative for intellectual
property and innovation. There she served as chief U.S. trade
negotiator for intellectual property and innovation issues.  She has also been a professor teaching intellectual
property law at  George Mason University , and served as an
adviser on intellectual property issues to the staff of the U.S.
Senate Judiciary Committee, Senate Finance Committee, House of
Representatives Judiciary Committee and House Ways and Means
Committee.  Espinel has an undergraduate degree in foreign service and
a law degree from  Georgetown University  and a master’s degree in
law from the  London School  of Economics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 