-- Italy’s President Appoints Four Senators Before Berlusconi Vote
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-08-30T13:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/italy-s-president-appoints-four-senators-before-berlusconi-vote.html
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano
appointed four senators-for-life 10 days before impeachment
proceedings are scheduled to start in parliament’s upper house
against three-time premier  Silvio Berlusconi .  Napolitano named architect  Renzo Piano , Nobel Prize-winning
physicist Carlo Rubbia, orchestra conductor Claudio Abbado and
brain-stem-cell research Elena Cattaneo to the senate, according
to a  statement  on the president’s website. The upper house has
two other permanent members: former Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
and ex-President Carlo Azeglio Ciampi.  Senators-for-life have voting rights and can prove decisive
in tight votes. In 2006, then-Prime Minister  Romano Prodi , who
found himself with a one-seat majority, relied on them to pass
legislation in the upper house.  Today’s appointments come as Prime Minister Enrico Letta
struggles to contain tensions that have strained his coalition
government since Italy’s top court on Aug. 1 upheld Berlusconi’s
tax-fraud conviction. Letta’s  Democratic Party , the biggest
force in the coalition, has said Berlusconi’s expulsion from the
senate is required by an anti-corruption law enacted in December
2012.  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty, the second-biggest party,
claims the law is unconstitutional and shouldn’t be applied to
the former premier, whose conviction stems from tax fraud in
2002 and 2003. The Senate’s committee for immunity and elections
will start discussing the issue on Sept. 9.  The senators appointed today are unlikely to affect the
vote on whether to strip Berlusconi of his seat in the upper
house. Letta’s party and the opposition Five Star Movement of
comedian-turned-politician Beppe Grillo have the votes to expel
Berlusconi if they join forces.  Napolitano said he’s “convinced” the four new lawmakers
will work “in total independence” from party politics.  Daniela Santanche, a PDL lawmaker,  said  that Napolitano
should have made Berlusconi a senator-for-life, calling him more
deserving than the four appointed today, according to the
Affaritaliani.it news website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  