-- Japan’s Trade Ministry Seeks Budget Boost for Fukushima Cleanup
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-08-30T05:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/japan-s-trade-ministry-seeks-budget-boost-for-fukushima-cleanup.html
Japan’s trade ministry asked for a
44 percent jump in its budget to retire reactors at the
Fukushima plant, a process that may take as long as 40 years,
while making a first-time request for water-management funding.  The Ministry of Trade and Industry will request 12.5
billion yen ($127 million) to decommission the reactors at  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s wrecked Dai-Ichi plant in the year
beginning April, it said in a statement. The ministry also plans
to seek an unspecified amount to handle contaminated water at
the site, according to the statement.  “The primary focus in the recovery of Fukushima prefecture
is the decommissioning of the reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant,” the trade ministry said in the statement. “The
government will be at the forefront of tackling problems” that
arise at the power station.  The trade ministry made its request about a week after the
utility known as Tepco reported that 300 tons of water had
leaked from one of the more than 1,000 storage tanks at the
plant.  Japan ’s Nuclear Regulation Authority has designated the
leak as the most serious incident since the earthquake and
tsunami of 2011 caused the reactors to melt down.  Tepco increased its tank-monitoring staff to 60 people from
10 as a result of the leak, while boosting the number of times
each tank is inspected from twice a day to once every three
hours, spokeswoman Mayumi Yoshida said today by phone. About
338,000 tons of water is stored at the plant as of yesterday,
she said.  The NRA, which is monitoring Tepco’s safety measures during
the cleanup while evaluating restart applications at other
reactors, requested 65 billion yen for the year starting April,
up 13 percent from this year. The NRA was set up after the March
11, 2011 disaster to independently review Japan’s nuclear power.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  