-- Japan Shares Cap Four-Month Loss as Oil Slides on Syria
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-08-30T07:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/japanese-shares-advance-as-yen-drops-on-u-s-gdp-syria.html
Japanese  shares  fell, with the  Topix (TPX) 
index posting its fourth straight monthly loss, as receding
prospects of an imminent strike on  Syria  sent crude lower,
dragging down oil stocks while boosting shippers and utilities.  Inpex Corp. fell 2 percent as a Topix subgroup tracking
 energy explorers  pared yesterday’s biggest gain since January.
Nintendo Co. extended losses, sinking the most since May after
cutting the price of its Wii U video-game console.  Nippon Yusen 
K.K. led shipping companies to the biggest gain on the gauge on
prospects for lower fuel costs. Hokkaido Electric Power Co. rose
3.5 percent after forecasting a narrower loss.  The Topix slipped 0.9 percent to 1,106.05 at the close of
trading in  Tokyo , extending its weekly drop to 3.1 percent. The
gauge fell 2.3 percent in August, capping its longest monthly
losing streak since November 2008. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average
slid 0.5 percent to 13,388.86.  “There’s some end-of-month profit-taking going on,” said
 Ayako Sera , a Tokyo-based market strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui
Trust Bank Ltd., which has the equivalent of $360 billion in
assets. “The U.K. and U.S. have backed down slightly over
Syria, so crude prices fell and that’s helping shipping stocks
and utilities, while oil stocks drop.”  Even after falling for half of the year to date, Japanese
equities are still the best performers in 2013 among developed
markets, amid optimism Prime Minister Abe and the  Bank of Japan 
can lead the country out of deflation through unprecedented
monetary easing and regulatory reforms.  CPI Rises  Data today showed  Japan ’s  consumer prices , excluding fresh
food, increased 0.7 percent in July from a year earlier. The
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
0.6 percent advance. Industrial production rose 3.2 percent in
July on the previous month, after falling 3.1 percent in June,
according to the Statistics Bureau. Analysts projected a 3.6
percent gain.  “The street believes the market has limited downside but
is still waiting for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his
structural reforms before it gets too bullish again,” said
Stuart Beavis, head of institutional equity derivatives at
Vantage Capital Markets in  Hong Kong .  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3
percent. The gauge yesterday rose for a second day as data
showed U.S. gross domestic product increased at a 2.5 percent
annualized rate in the second quarter, up from an initial
estimate of 1.7 percent. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 2.2 percent gain. Separately,
jobless claims dropped more than forecast.  Approval Refused  The prospect of imminent strikes on Syria receded after
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  failed to get parliamentary
approval for military action. The U.S., which says it has
evidence that Syria’s government was responsible for chemical-weapons attacks, won’t act without allies, Defense Secretary
Chuck Hagel said yesterday.  West Texas Intermediate crude oil fell 0.9 percent today,
dropping for a second day after declining from a two-year high
yesterday.  A gauge tracking  energy explorers  retreated from a seven-month high today, while the Topix Oil & Coal Index lost 1.7
percent. Inpex slumped 2 percent to 445,500 yen after the oil
producer yesterday surged by the most since Jan. 29. Cosmo Oil
Co. sank 2.9 percent to 203 yen.  Shippers, Utilities  Just three of the 33 Topix subgroups advanced today. The
Topix Marine Transportation Index rose 0.9 percent for the
biggest gain, as lower crude prices buoyed Japan’s largest
shippers. Nippon Yusen gained 2.1 percent to 280 yen. Kawasaki
Kisen Kaisha Ltd. climbed 0.9 percent to 222 yen.  Utilities, which rely more on imported oil and gas as most
of Japan’s nuclear reactors remain offline, were the No. 2
gainers on the Topix today after crude extended its drop.  Hokkaido Electric Power Co. jumped 3.5 percent to 1,154
yen. The Sapporo-based company was also boosted after projecting
a first-half loss of 1 billion yen versus 48.6 billion yen a
year earlier.  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9507) , Japan’s biggest
electricity producer by market value, increased 1.8 percent to
1,103 yen.  “The impact on the market will be large if military
intervention in Syria proceeds and other Middle Eastern
countries get involved, but at the moment it doesn’t seem the
risk is increasing,” said Juichi Wako, a Tokyo-based equity
market strategist at Nomura Securities Co., the nation’s biggest
brokerage.  Among other stocks that fell, Nintendo tumbled 6.1 percent
to 11,120 yen, extending yesterday’s decline after announcing it
would reduce the price of its Wii U console by $50. The cut
comes as it attempts to boost sales in the months before
competing products are released by Sony Corp. and Microsoft
Corp.  Investor Trends  Japanese companies, sitting on a record 137 billion yen in
cash, were the biggest net buyers of domestic shares last week
among institutional investors, according to  data  from the Tokyo
Stock Exchange. Businesses bought 54 billion yen more in shares
than they sold, compared with 29 billion yen in net purchases by
 investment trusts  and net selling of 20 billion yen by financial
institutions.  In the first half of this year, Topix companies repurchased
1.78 trillion yen of their own shares, the most since 2005,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Topix traded at 1.15 times book value today, compared
with 2.41 for the S&P 500 and 1.69 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index yesterday. The Japanese gauge’s 30-day  historic volatility 
was at 26.63 today, compared with its five-year median of 19.42.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  