-- Japan’s Public Pension Fund Suffers Biggest-Ever Bond Losses
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-08-30T08:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/japan-s-government-pension-fund-return-shrinks-on-bond-losses.html
Japan ’s Government Pension
Investment Fund, the world’s largest manager of retirement
savings, posted its smallest gain in three quarters in the
period ended June on record domestic bond losses.  GPIF, which has 121 trillion yen ($1.24 trillion) in
assets, earned a 1.9 percent return last quarter compared with a
6.9 percent gain in the prior three months, according to a
 statement  on its website today. Market investments in Japanese
bonds fell 1.5 percent while domestic stocks jumped 9.7 percent,
the fund said. Losses on local bonds were wider than the
previous record quarterly decline in 2008, said Tokihiko
Shimizu, director general of the research department at GPIF.  “Returns from domestic stocks and overseas bonds and
equities compensated for the loss in domestic bonds,” Shimizu
said in a telephone interview today. “Diversifying our assets
was effective.”  The Tokyo-based pension manager said in June it would
reduce its allocation to local bonds, which comprised 60 percent
of assets at the end of that month, as it seeks higher-yielding
investments amid Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s bid to stoke
inflation. Japanese government  securities  lost 1.8 percent last
quarter, according to a Bloomberg World Bond Index.  The debt has since rallied, with the yield on the  10-year
sovereign note  sliding 13.5 basis points since June to 0.72
percent today, the lowest rate worldwide. The Topix index has
dropped 2.5 percent in the same period.  GPIF’s investment income of 2.21 trillion yen last quarter
was the smallest since the three months ended September 2012,
the statement shows.  The fund’s international bond investments gained 4 percent
and overseas stocks returned 6.1 percent, according to the
statement. The fund said 16 percent of its assets were in
domestic stocks as of the end of June, while foreign equities
accounted for 13 percent. International bonds made up 10
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  