-- Japonica Extends Offer to Buy Greek Bonds Until End of September
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-08-30T10:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/japonica-extends-offer-to-buy-greek-bonds-until-end-of-september.html
Japonica Partners & Co., the U.S.
investment firm trying to buy as much as 4 billion euros ($5.3
billion) of Greek government debt, said it’s making a final,
monthlong extension of its tender offer.  The offer now has a deadline of Sept. 30, according to a
statement issued by the Providence, Rhode Island-based company
today. Japonica first made its tender offer in June and has
extended it twice since then. Xander Heijnen, a spokesman for
Japonica, said there will be no further extensions.  Japonica last month announced it would pay a minimum
purchase price of 40 percent of the bonds’ principal amount,
saying the offer reflected a fair value for securities that are
volatile and “highly illiquid.” The offer falls below the so-called strip of 45 percent, which is the average price investors
are bidding for outstanding Greek government debt, according to
Athens-based Piraeus Bank SA.  “After this deadline, we will begin to allocate our funds
elsewhere,” Heijnen said in an interview today. He declined to
comment on how many bonds the firm has purchased.  Japonica said in today’s statement that it’s appropriate to
apply a 15 percent to 20 percent discount to Greek debt given
that buyers are limited, making it difficult for bondholders to
sell their stakes. With the discount included, Japonica said its
offer to purchase bonds at 40 percent of the principal amount is
actually a premium to closing prices on Aug. 23.  Bailout Programs  Japonica reduced the number of specific Greek bonds it’s
targeting from 11 to six, maturing between February 2028 and
February 2033.  Greece  is in its sixth year of recession and dependent on
bailouts from European governments to avoid bankruptcy. German
Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said Aug. 20 that Greece,
which has already received 240 billion euros in rescue funds
from the euro area and International Monetary Fund, will need
another aid program to reach its debt sustainability targets.  Hedge funds including Third Point LLC and Greylock Capital
Management LLC made money last year by buying the country’s
government bonds, betting that European officials would continue
to rescue the nation from financial collapse to prevent the
region’s debt crisis from spreading.  Japonica, run by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  banker
Paul Kazarian, gained notoriety in the U.S. during the late
1980s and early 1990s for deals including an attempted buyout of
food company Borden Inc., a failed $1.6 billion takeover of
railroad company CNW Corp. and the purchase of appliance maker
Sunbeam-Oster Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  