-- KGB Offers Tolstoy as Russia Presses Belarus to Free Potash CEO
-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-08-30T12:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/kgb-offers-tolstoy-as-russia-presses-belarus-to-free-potash-ceo.html
Belarus granted jailed OAO  Uralkali (URKA) 
chief Vladislav Baumgertner’s request for a Leo Tolstoy novel as
its feud with  Russia  intensified over the collapse of a venture
that supplied two-fifths of the world’s potash exports.  Russian diplomats were allowed to visit Baumgertner, 41,
for the first time today since Aug. 26, when he was detained at
the Minsk airport after being invited for talks, said Gavriil
Mamontov, first secretary at the Russian embassy in Belarus.
Mamontov delivered a two-volume set of “Anna Karenina,”  to
Baumgertner in his cell at the KGB’s headquarters.  Baumgertner, who was also chairman of Belarus Potash Co.,
Uralkali’s trading partnership with state-run Belaruskali, is
charged with abuse of office and faces 10 years in prison. The
Uralkali CEO said July 30 that he was dissolving Belarus Potash
because President  Aleksandr Lukashenko , in power since 1994,
“violated” their agreement by allowing Belaruskali to export
some of its soil nutrient independently.  “He looks tired, but hasn’t reported any acts of
humiliation or improper treatment,” Mamontov told reporters in
front of a monument to Felix Dzerzhinsky, a founder of the
feared Soviet secret police force known as the Cheka who was
born in what is now Belarus.  ‘Hostage Center’  Belarus Potash had been one of Lukashenko’s main sources of
hard currency, accounting for about 20 percent of government
revenue in a country that has about half of Russia’s per capita
gross domestic product, according to World Bank data.  Baumgertner’s whereabouts were undisclosed before today,
though state television showed him being led around the
courtyard of an unidentified prison in handcuffs. The 18-cell
facility in the KGB’s headquarters, nicknamed Amerikanka, or
American Lady, is the “hostage center of choice for politicians
and executives who run afoul of Lukashenko,” Anatoly Lebedko,
an opposition leader who spent 108 days in the facility for
leading a protest rally, said this week.  Russia, which led a $3 billion bailout loan to Belarus in
2011, today repeated its demand for Baumgertner’s release.
Russia expects Belarus to comply in the “coming days,”  Yuri Ushakov , a Kremlin foreign policy aide, told reporters in
Moscow. Belarus is scheduled to receive the final $440 million
of the Russian-led emergency funding by the end of the year.  Oil, Hogs  Russia, which shares a customs union with Belarus and
 Kazakhstan , earlier today imposed a ban on Belarusian hogs and
pork products, a move the country’s food safety and health
watchdog attributed to African swine flu. OAO Transneft,
Russia’s oil-pipeline monopoly, said Aug. 28 it would cut oil
shipments to Belarus in September, citing maintenance work.  Putin, 60, and Lukashenko have sparred over prices for
Russian fuel, leading to a brief shut-off of oil supplies in
January 2007. Lukashenko sold Belarusian pipelines to Russian
natural gas exporter  OAO Gazprom (OGZD)  after the dispute, leaving
Belaruskali, which he’s valued at $36 billion, as the nation’s
biggest asset. Belarus earned $2.7 billion selling potash abroad
in 2012, or 5.9 percent of total exports.  Baumgertner and four other Uralkali executives for whom
Belarus has issued arrest warrants are accused of conspiring to
cut Belaruskali out of decision-making at Belarus Potash and
causing $100 million of damages.  Chief Financial Officer Viktor Belyakov will take over as
interim CEO to ensure “continuity of efficient operations,”
Uralkali said in a statement today.  Uralkali shares fell as much as 1.9 percent today and were
down 1.3 percent to $23.43 at 11:45 in  London , valuing the
world’s biggest potash producer at about $13.8 billion.  The company said it “continues to refute all charges” and
is confident “the situation will be resolved in accordance with
commonly accepted moral and legal norms.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk,  Belarus  at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  