-- America Movil Is Prepared to Drop $9.5 Billion KPN Bid
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-30T21:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/kpn-foundation-moves-to-impede-america-movil-takeover.html
America Movil  SAB said it’s prepared
to drop a 7.2 billion-euro ($9.5 billion) bid for  Royal KPN NV (KPN) 
after the Dutch phone company’s foundation used an option to buy
shares to impede what it described as a hostile takeover.  KPN’s foundation said yesterday it exercised the option to
acquire preferred shares, giving it almost 50 percent of issued
and voting stock, almost enough to block America Movil’s 2.40
euro-per-share offer for majority control. KPN fell 3.4 percent
to 2.21 euros at the close in Amsterdam. America Movil,  Latin
America ’s biggest phone company, holds about 30 percent of KPN.  “It’s hard to determine whether this offer is fair,”
Jacques Schraven, the foundation’s chairman, said today at a
press briefing in Amsterdam. “We’ve asked whether this offer
can be retracted and negotiations can be reopened. They haven’t
responded to that up until now. This wasn’t an easy decision.”  Schraven said there is still time to come to a binding
offer as the America Movil plan is so far only a proposal,
leaving the door open for America Movil to address its concerns.
The wireless company controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim  is
seeking to boost its stake in KPN to more than 50 percent as
part of a bid to expand beyond Latin America.  America Movil won’t raise its offer “under any
circumstance,” and it won’t agree to any restrictions on its
ability to make management decisions if it controls KPN, said
 Arturo Elias , a vice president of the company’s Telmex unit and
Slim’s spokesman and son-in-law.  ‘Total Lie’  “The foundation called our offer hostile -- that’s a total
lie,” Elias said in a phone interview. “It’s been discussed
with management, with the board and with the Dutch government
itself, which has been very receptive and favorable, receiving
us with open arms.”  America Movil had meetings with KPN as recently as
yesterday and believed discussions were proceeding well until
the foundation’s “surprising announcement,” Elias said. There
are no other meetings scheduled, he said. Elias said he didn’t
know if there were any specific commitments KPN was requesting
for employees, executives, shareholders or the government.  “We gave both KPN and  America Movil (AMXL)  a bit of a push to
come to a good agreement,” Schraven said. “We want as quickly
as possible this to lead to concrete results.”  In a statement, America Movil said its Aug. 9 announcement
of its bid intention followed consultations with KPN and is
“contrary to what has been stated by the foundation.” America
Movil had “substantive discussions” with KPN as recently as
this week and “further meetings were scheduled to take place
today,” it said.  European Expansion  If the foundation keeps its current position, America Movil
“is prepared to withdraw its offer,” the Mexico City-based
company said. America Movil gained less than 1 percent to 12.86
pesos in Mexico City.  “Negotiations for AMX are getting tougher,” Gregorio Tomassi, an analyst at Banco Itau BBA in Mexico City, said
yesterday in a research note, referring to America Movil’s
ticker symbol. “The KPN foundation is forcing AMX to sit and
negotiate on demands that are not yet clear.”  Dutch Economy Minister Henk Kamp said today his agency is
willing to help resolve the KPN situation. The outcome may take
weeks or a few months to determine, he said. “We had a
discussion with the people of America Movil and we will have
more discussions in the future,” he told reporters today in  The
Hague . “They explain their plans, and I explain how we look at
it in the Netherlands and what exactly the interests are that
are at stake.”  Potential Conditions  The foundation may be aiming to firm up conditions such as
employee compensation, bonus packages and management continuity
before agreeing to let the offer proceed, Tomassi said.  The foundation’s move came just after America Movil
appeared to be addressing the group’s concerns. Slim’s company
agreed this week to endorse the sale of KPN’s German unit to the
billionaire’s biggest rival in Latin America --  Telefonica SA (TEF)  --
even convincing the Spanish company to sweeten its bid for the
asset. After negotiating with America Movil, Telefonica
increased the value of the bid for the KPN unit to 8.55 billion
euros from 8.1 billion euros.  America Movil committed to vote in favor of the German deal
after the foundation urged the company to make clear its
position on the transaction. Now the foundation is asking
America Movil to file documents that clarify how it calculated
its offer. It also seeks information on commitments America
Movil is making on technology, employment, strategy and
governance, it said.  ‘Hostile Approach’  “The foundation believes that America Movil has knowingly
opted for a hostile approach by not first trying to reach
agreement on a merger protocol with KPN,” the group said in a
 statement . America Movil also submitted an offer document to the
Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets without
consulting with KPN, the foundation said.  The foundation said it continues to support the German
transaction, leaving Telefonica’s deal assured.  Slim’s company is also contending with opposition from
KPN’s works council, which asked Dutch lawmakers to help block
the takeover. KPN’s unions want a guarantee that KPN’s strategy
will be continued and solid assurances from America Movil for
the future of KPN’s employees, according to Joost van Herpen, a
delegate for the Abvakabo union.  The foundation is in charge of defending the interests of
KPN’s shareholders, employees and customers, as well as Dutch
society. It has existed since the Dutch government first sold
shares in KPN in 1994. On its board are Schraven, Vice Chairman
Pieter Bouw, Hans Zwarts, Jan Klaassen and Peter Wakkie.  The group’s call option allows it to obtain the KPN shares
for at least 25 percent of their nominal value, which is 0.24
euro a share, according to the foundation’s  website . The
foundation didn’t say how much it paid to acquire the 4.26
billion shares it obtained. The group has a financing
arrangement with Dutch banks to fund the share acquisition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  