-- Natural Gas Futures Drop in Survey as Waning Summer Cuts Demand
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-08-30T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/natural-gas-futures-drop-in-survey-as-waning-summer-cuts-demand.html
Natural gas futures may decline next
week on speculation that demand from power plants will wane as
the summer cooling season nears an end.  Seven of 15 analysts, or 47 percent, predicted that futures
will drop on the New York Mercantile Exchange through Sept. 7.
Six, or 40 percent, said gas will rise and two predicted prices
will be little changed. Last week, 46 percent of participants
said gas would advance.  Temperatures across the eastern half of the lower 48 states
will be mostly seasonal or lower from Sept. 8 through Sept. 12,
according to MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . Gas
prices jumped to a five-week high yesterday as forecasts showed
unusually hot weather will linger in the Midwest,  Texas  and the
Northeast during the first week of September.  “This week’s run up in natural gas prices on the back of
the anticipated string of low inventory builds thru mid-September has now made the front of the curve particularly
vulnerable to milder-weather revisions,” Teri Viswanath,
director of commodities strategy at BNP Paribas SA in New York,
said in an e-mail yesterday. “We now see prices testing lower
following the holiday.”  Natural gas futures rose 13.3 cents, or 3.8 percent, to
$3.618 per million British thermal units during the first four
days of this week on the Nymex, the highest settlement price
since July 25. Futures are heading for a third consecutive
weekly gain. The futures are up 8 percent this year.  Labor Day  The Nymex trading floor will be closed on Sept. 2 in
observance of the U.S. Labor Day holiday.  The high in New York City and  Chicago  on Sept. 12 may be 71
degrees Fahrenheit (22 Celsius), 6 lower than the usual reading
for both cities, according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College,
 Pennsylvania . Power producers account for 32 percent of U.S. gas
demand, according to the Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm.  U.S. inventories  increased by 67 billion cubic feet in the
week ended Aug. 23 to 3.13 trillion, above-the five-year average
gain of 66 billion, the EIA said yesterday. Analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg predicted a gain of 62 billion.  A  supply surplus  to the average held at 1.5 percent for a
third week.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  6      7      2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  