-- NFL Seen Saving Money After $765 Million Concussion Settlement
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s ,   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-08-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/nfl-seen-saving-money-after-765-million-concussion-settlement.html
The  National Football League  may
have saved itself from a potentially higher payout -- and a
stain on its reputation -- by reaching a $765 million settlement
with former players over concussions, according to sports
business executives.  The settlement will compensate more than 5,000 ex-players
for ailments stemming from head injuries, provide medical
monitoring and pay for research on concussions, U.S. District
Judge Anita Brody in Philadelphia said yesterday in court
papers. The accord, which requires court approval, resulted from
talks between the league and players.  The agreement ends thousands of lawsuits that threatened
the reputation of a league with $9.7 billion in annual revenue,
the richest in  North America , according to  David Carter ,
executive director of the Sports Business Institute at the
 University of Southern California .  “Achieving cost certainty and closure is very important
for the league and those that conduct business with it,” Carter
said yesterday in an e-mail. “Had this suit continued, there
would have been other possibilities to emerge, ranging from a
larger potential monetary settlement, to ongoing public
relations issues and the possibility of additional disclosures
or developments that could possibly harm the NFL brand.”  Maximum awards include $5 million for patients with
 Alzheimer’s disease  and $3 million for dementia, Christopher Seeger, a plaintiffs’ lawyer, said in a  statement  on the NFL
website. The overall settlement works out to about $153,000 for
each plaintiff.  5,000 Suits  More than 5,000 former NFL players had sued the league
seeking damages for head injuries. The complaints, which were
consolidated before Brody in Philadelphia, accused the league of
negligence and failing to inform players of the link between
repeated traumatic head impacts and long-term brain injuries,
including early onset Alzheimer’s and dementia.  The players claimed the NFL knew as early as the 1970s
about the increased risk of repetitive head injuries and took no
meaningful steps to address the issue until 1994. The league
later sought to suppress medical literature showing a link
between head injuries and post-career  brain damage , the players
argued.  “This agreement will get help quickly to the men who
suffered neurological injuries,” Seeger said in an e-mailed
statement. “It will do so faster and at far less cost, both
financially and emotionally, than could have ever been
accomplished by continuing to litigate.”  Avoids Disclosure  Kevin Mawae , a retired NFL center for the  New York Jets  and
former president of the players’ union, said the accord allows
the NFL to avoid disclosing evidence about what it knew about
brain injuries and when. Mawae, who is not part of the lawsuit,
said yesterday on his Twitter account that players need to be
willing to “go all the way and not settle.”  “To be very clear … $$$ is not everything … knowing what
you don’t know but could’ve is far more valuable,” Mawae said
on his Twitter account. “Information=knowledge=security.”  The NFL Players Association said in a statement that it
looks forward to learning more about the pact.  In the past three years the NFL has negotiated long-term
television extensions with  CBS Corp. (CBS) , News Corp.’s Fox unit,
Comcast Corp.’s NBC and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN. The eight-year
extension with ESPN, which broadcasts “Monday Night Football,”
is valued at $1.9 billion, about 73 percent more than the
network had been paying, according to the New York Times.  Deep Pockets  The league’s financial resources meant it was better suited
for a lengthy legal battle, giving it an advantage in
negotiations, according to  Andrew Brandt , a sports business
analyst for ESPN and former executive with the  Green Bay
Packers .  “Owners have leverage of time,” Brandt said on his
Twitter account. “Past/current/future players need money; don’t
want to wait years of litigation”  Paul Swangard , managing director of the Warsaw Sports
Marketing Center at the  University of Oregon  said the settlement
is a good deal for the growing NFL, “especially if you look at
the value of that money today versus potential future revenue
streams.”  “I also think it’s a win-win in that it provides immediate
relief to those who have suffered and played in an era where it
appeared they were much more susceptible to this type of
injury,” Swangard said in a phone interview. “It puts money
where it needs to go.”  Settlement Breakdown  Among the payments will be $675 million to compensate
injured players and their families, $75 million for medical
exams and $10 million for research and education, according to
the Plaintiffs Committee for Retired Players. The NFL will pay
players’ attorneys’ legal fees separate from the accord,
according to court filings.  The compensation program may last 65 years to provide
payments to players who develop neurological ailments from
concussions, Seeger said in an interview. The NFL can spread out
payments to the players’ fund over 20 years. Still, the deal’s
terms require the league to pay out more than $380 million of
the total accord by 2016.  The settlement requires players to have completed five NFL
seasons to receive full recoveries, a person familiar with the
accord said. Players with fewer years can claim discounted
recoveries, the person said, requesting anonymity because the
information wasn’t public.  A progressive brain disease known as chronic traumatic
encephalopathy, or CTE, has been found in the autopsies of three
former NFL players who committed suicide. The families of those
players -- All-Pro linebacker Junior Seau, and defensive backs
Dave Duerson and Andre Waters -- can recover $4.5 million each
under the agreement, according to the person familiar with the
settlement.  Riddell Claims  While yesterday’s accord, if approved, ends the former
players’ quest to find out what the NFL knew and when, that
information could still be revealed through other litigation.  Lawsuits by Duerson’s family, for example, include Riddell
Sports Inc., the league’s official helmet provider, for refusing
to properly acknowledge or address the concussion threat. Those
portions were not included in yesterday’s settlement.  Barry Sanders , a 10-time  Pro Bowl  running back and member
of the Pro Football Hall of Fame, said yesterday that players
know the dangers associated with playing football at its top
level. Sanders, whose son plays on the Stanford University
football team, retired after the 1998 season at the age of 30.  “It’s physical. There are no guarantees,” Sanders said on
ESPN. “No one is forced to play, and all you can do is explain
what the dangers are and like any other sports, you let kids and
young men make their own decisions.”  The case is In re National Football Players’ Concussion
Injury Litigation, 12-md-02323, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  