-- No Atlantic Hurricane by August in First Time in 11 Years
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-08-30T14:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/no-atlantic-hurricane-by-august-in-first-time-in-11-years.html
August is about to end without an
Atlantic hurricane for the first time since 2002, calling into
question predictions of a more active storm season than normal.  Six tropical systems have formed in the Atlantic since the
season began June 1 and none of them has grown to hurricane
strength with winds of at least 74 miles (120 kilometers) per
hour. Accumulated cyclone energy in the Atlantic, a measure of
tropical power, is about 30 percent of where it normally would
be, said  Phil Klotzbach , lead author of  Colorado State
University ’s seasonal hurricane forecasts.  “At this point, I doubt that a super-active  hurricane
season  will happen,” Klotzbach said in an e-mail yesterday.  The most active part of the Atlantic season runs from Aug.
20 to about the first week of October. The statistical peak
occurs on Sept. 10, according to the  National Hurricane Center 
in Miami. Two storms formed in August and the hurricane center
is tracking two areas of thunderstorms that have low to medium
chances of becoming tropical systems within five days  Atlantic storms are watched closely because they disrupt
energy operations in and around the  Gulf of Mexico  and cause
widespread destruction when they come ashore.  In the basin now, warm sea water and a decreasing amount of
wind shear that can tear at the structure of budding storms mean
conditions are ripe “for a burst of activity,” said  Todd Crawford , chief meteorologist at Weather Services International
in Andover,  Massachusetts .  A ’Head-Scratcher’  “The very inactive season so far has been a bit of a head-scratcher,” Crawford said in an e-mail interview.  Air temperatures from the Caribbean to  Africa  have been
warmer than normal this year, reducing the instability in the
atmosphere that drives storm development, he said. In addition,
dry air is being pulled off Africa into the Atlantic, which also
cuts storm activity, he said.  Seasonal predictions were for an above-normal season. The
30-year average is for 12 storms with winds of at least 39 miles
per hour, the threshold at which they are named. Nineteen such
systems formed in each of the last three years.  Colorado State, which pioneered seasonal forecasts,
retreated slightly on its outlook in an early August update,
calling for 18 named storms. Eight should be hurricanes and
three of them major hurricanes, a reduction of one at each
level, the researchers said.  NOAA Outlook  The  National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration  also kept
its call for an above-average season in an Aug. 8 outlook for 13
to 19 named storms, six to nine hurricanes and three to five
major systems.  “If you don’t get your first hurricane by or before
August, it’s extremely difficult to get those high storm counts,
especially for hurricanes and major hurricanes,” said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
 Maryland . “Amazing we’re on the 90th day of the hurricane
season and no hurricanes yet.”  While water temperatures in the Atlantic, Caribbean and
Gulf of  Mexico  are high enough to spark hurricane formation,
wind shear across the central part of the ocean has been high,
Klotzbach said.  Shear is when the winds at different altitudes blow at
varying speeds or directions, which can tear at the structure of
a budding tropical system.  Atlantic Conditions  According to the  U.S. Climate Prediction Center , there has
been a lot of wind shear in the Atlantic between the Lesser
Antilles in the Caribbean and  Cape Verde  off the coast of
Africa. This zone is often referred to as the main development
region for Atlantic hurricanes, particularly in August and
September.  “We haven’t had a hurricane and we don’t see anything that
looks highly robust,” said Dan Kottlowski, an expert senior
meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania . “It just goes to show you that having warm water
isn’t everything.”  For natural gas markets, hurricanes have shifted from being
major output disruptions, in part because so much production has
shifted to land, to being “load killers” that cut electricity
demand as temperatures drop, said Teri Viswanath, director of
commodities strategy at BNP Paribas SA in New York.  The Gulf of Mexico is home to about 6 percent of U.S.
natural gas output, 23 percent of oil production and more than
45 percent of petroleum refining capacity, according to the U.S.
Energy Department. In 2001, Gulf waters accounted for 24 percent
of U.S. marketed gas production.  No Bets  A quiet first half to the Atlantic storm season doesn’t
mean the second will be the same, she said.  “It’s not over until it’s over,” Viswanath said.  Hurricane Sandy , which slammed into New York and  New Jersey 
last year, developed on Oct. 22 and went ashore on Oct. 29. It
killed at least 159 people and damaged or destroyed more than
650,000 homes in the U.S., according to a  federal task force 
report Aug. 19.  Crawford also said the 2013 season could rebound now that
September has begun. He expects some of the barriers that have
damped activity so far to fall.  The 2002 season, the last to pass without a hurricane by
the end of August, included  Hurricane Lili , a Category 4 storm
that caused about $860 million in damage and killed at least 13
people in the Caribbean and  Louisiana  from Sept. 21 to Oct. 4,
according to the hurricane center. The first hurricane to form
that year was Gustav, on Sept. 11.  “On Sept. 9, if there is nothing to talk about, you can
call me and we can write off the season,” said Michael Schlacter, founder of Weather 2000 in  New York . “I think in the
next 10 days there will be a lot of things to discuss.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  