-- OGX Seen Worthless by Deutsche Bank to Gradual: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i ,   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 2013-08-30T13:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/ogx-seen-worthless-by-deutsche-bank-to-gradual-corporate-brazil.html
Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA is  worthless  and the oil company’s $672 million
market value is being inflated by a presence in  Brazil ’s
benchmark index, according to brokerage Gradual Investimentos.  Deutsche Bank AG’s Marcus Sequeira, the most accurate OGX
analyst in a  Bloomberg Absolute Return Ranking (OGXP3) , and Bank of
America Corp.’s Frank McGann estimate the stock is worth 10
centavos, or about 4 cents. OGX’s market value has sunk 97
percent to 1.62 billion reais ($686 million) since it first
reported output declines at its sole crude-producing project in
March 2012. OGX, which has a 1.75 percent  weighting  on the
Ibovespa, fell 12 percent to 50 centavos yesterday.  “Passive funds that track the Ibovespa need to buy OGX,
and most of the share value we see is due to this Ibovespa
presence,” Marcos Elias, a partner at Sao Paulo-based Gradual,
said by phone. “The market isn’t perfect and is driven by
expectations and so companies with zero value usually stay
around 0.1 real.”  The falling value of OGX’s assets would complicate efforts
to restructure $3.6 billion of bonds with investors including
Pacific Investment Management Co. and  Blackrock Inc. (BHYIX)  OGX this
week returned nine oil licenses acquired in May, and investors
are concerned an $850 million deal to sell stakes in two fields
to  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. may fall through.  OGX bondholders hired Rothschild to advise on a debt
restructuring, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said
this month, asking not to be identified because the selection
process is private.  Share Sales  Batista is trimming his OGX stake by selling shares near
record-low levels, deepening a market rout. OGX’s cash fell 72
percent in the second quarter to $325 million, less than its
average quarterly capital expenses in the past year, while debt
rose to a record 8.7 billion reais.  The difference between OGX’s total assets and liabilities
shrank to 2.24 billion reais in the quarter, the lowest on
record, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  OGX said it’s assessing options to improve its  capital
structure  in an e-mailed response to questions, declining to
comment on the value of its stock and presence in the Ibovespa.
OGX hired Blackstone Group LP “for the ongoing evaluation of
its capital structure,” according to an Aug. 14 statement.  Of 15 analysts that posted recommendations on OGX shares
this year, five advise investors to sell and three say hold,
while the other seven have the stock under review, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Penny Stocks  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3)  is considering excluding stocks trading for
less than 1 real, or penny stocks, from the Ibovespa, which is
otherwise weighted just by trading volume, according to a
statement on the exchange operator’s website. OGX, which has
tumbled amid production shortfalls and dwindling cash, is the
only stock on the index below that  threshold .  Under BMF&Bovespa’s current criteria for the Ibovespa,
OGX’s weighting will  more than double  to 4.3 percent in
September because of increased trading of the shares in the past
12 months, according to the bourse’s Aug. 16 index preview. By
comparison, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is a capitalization-weighted gauge and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  is a price-weighted index.  New rules will be announced on Sept. 13 and will only take
effect next year, BM&FBovespa Chief Executive Officer Edemir Pinto said yesterday at an event in Campos de Jordao, Brazil.
OGX would be removed from the Ibovespa if it defaults on debt
and is put under  bankruptcy protection , he said.  Capital Restructuring  “OGX’s pricing action has been dictated by technical
aspects of the Ibovespa rebalancing,” Itau BBA said of the
increased weighting expected for next month in a note to
clients. “A capital restructuring is still a real possibility.
This would lead to the immediate deletion of the stock from the
index.”  The exchange referred to statements on its website in an e-mailed response to questions on the proposed index changes. The
changes will be based on studies by a  task force  coordinated by
the exchange and comprising asset managers, brokers, companies
and banks, BM&FBovespa said.  Batista’s fire sale of assets includes shares of OGX and
shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  to  pay debt . Earlier this month he
agreed to cede control of his logistics unit  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) 
and is in talks to sell his controlling stake in MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA, Brazil’s fourth largest iron-ore producer.  OGX may rebound in coming weeks because of demand from
funds and investors that need to cover positions, Gradual’s
Elias said.  Short Squeeze  “Because of the excess of short positions and the
rebalancing of the Ibovespa, there’s a possibility the shares
will go through a short squeeze,” Elias said, referring to the
sudden rise in the value of a stock because demand to cover
positions or meet index-related fund targets exceeds supply.  Expectation that Batista will sell OGX shares to passive
funds is helping stem a short squeeze, said Rafael Ferri, a
minority OGX investor who says the company lost him about 1
million reais in a complaint to Brazil’s securities regulator.  Batista, who was the world’s eighth-richest person last
year, has fallen out of the ranks of billionaires as his
companies’ stock prices plunged.  Petronas, as the Malaysian state-run oil producer is known,
said this week its purchase of stakes in OGX’s fields hinges on
a debt restructuring, prompting OGX to say Petronas has no right
to set that condition.  Without proceeds from the sale, OGX probably will run out
of cash in the third quarter, Deutsche Bank’s Sequeira said in
an Aug. 27 report.  “The proceeds from this sale are the main source of
funding for OGX at this time,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  