-- Hollande Says France Ready to Act in Syria After U.K. Vote
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-08-30T10:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/hollande-says-france-is-ready-to-act-in-syria-after-u-k-vote.html
President Francois Hollande said
that  France  is ready to act in  Syria  after Britain’s Parliament
rejected Prime Minister David Cameron’s proposal to take part in
any military strike.  “There are few countries that have the capacity to act,”
Hollande said in an interview with  Le Monde  newspaper published
today. “France is among them and is ready to do so.”  The remarks puts France in the position of being the key
ally for U.S. President Barack Obama in any attack on the regime
of President Bashar al-Assad, reversing the roles the two
countries played a decade ago when President George W. Bush led
the invasion of  Iraq .  Asked about the British parliament’s vote against strikes
in Syria, Hollande said every country can make decisions on the
matter independently.  “Every country is sovereign in deciding whether or not to
participate in an operation,” Hollande said, according to Le
Monde. “That’s true for the U.K. as it is for France. I’ll be
having a serious talk today with  Barack Obama .”  In  London  last night, Cameron told lawmakers that the U.K.
will play no part in any attack on Assad after an already
watered-down motion seeking authorization for possible strikes
was defeated by 285 votes to 272. Coalition rebels joined the
opposition to defeat the proposal.  British Action  “The British Parliament, reflecting the views of the
British people, does not wish to see British military action,”
Cameron said. “I get that and the government will act
accordingly.”  The German government ruled out military engagement today
for the first time. At the same time,  Germany  hopes for a
unanimous UN Security Council response to the alleged Syria gas
attack, Steffen Seibert,  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s chief
spokesman, told reporters in Berlin.  As French president, Hollande is head of the armed forces
and isn’t required to consult lawmakers before taking military
action. France’s National Assembly will hold a debate on the
matter Sept. 4.  Earlier this year, France intervened in  Mali  to thwart an
advance by Islamist militants and ethnic Touareg rebels.  While Hollande conceded that it’s hard to prove for certain
who ordered the chemical attack in Syria , Assad’s regime needs
to be punished.  “The question is no longer whether chemical weapons were
used on Aug. 21 in the Damascus suburbs -- that’s an established
fact,” Hollande said. “The question is to know who is behind
this ghastly act.”  “I believe that a stop must be placed on a regime” that
is acting against its own people, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  