-- London Student Housing Block Voted Britain’s Worst New Building
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-08-30T13:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/london-student-housing-block-voted-britain-s-worst-new-building.html
A block of student housing in North
 London  that was initially rejected by local planning authorities
is the worst new building in Britain, according to a panel
assembled by Building Design magazine.  “This is a building that the jury struggled to see as
remotely fit for human occupation,” the magazine for architects
said today in a statement.  Most of the rooms in the building, located near Arsenal
Football Club’s stadium in Islington, lack adequate daylight and
offer little privacy, the panel found. The project gained
permission after an appeal to planning officials on the grounds
that students don’t require the same quality of accommodation as
the rest of society, the magazine said.  The structure was designed by Stephen George & Partners LLP
for  University College London . Nobody at the architecture firm
was available for comment.  The building, once a red brick warehouse that was mostly
demolished, is historically protected. UCL said it was
constrained by the building’s facade being listed and added that
providing student residences close to campus in a city as
expensive as London is a challenge.  “The design evolved through in-depth and extensive
consultation with Islington Council’s planning, conservation and
urban design officers and we are happy with the outcome,” UCL
said in a statement. “The final design complies with all
necessary planning regulations in respect of outlook, amenity
and natural daylight.”  Residents of 465 Caledonian Road, on the same street as
Pentonville prison, “might be forgiven for wondering why the
prisoners have been provided with the better view,” Ellis
Woodman, Building Design’s executive editor, said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  