-- ONGC to Fund Africa Charge With $4 Billion Debt: Corporate India
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   D e b j i t   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-08-30T11:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/ongc-to-fund-africa-charge-with-4-billion-debt-corporate-india.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) ,  India ’s
biggest explorer, is planning a record $4 billion overseas
borrowing in its push for African assets after losing a Kazakh
oil field deal to  China  National Petroleum Corp.  The state-owned company is seeking to raise the debt abroad
in the year to March 31 to almost fully fund its stake purchases
in  Africa , D.K. Sarraf, managing director of its overseas unit
ONGC Videsh Ltd., said in an interview. It announced its biggest
deal this week in the continent, which holds 7.8 percent of the
world’s oil reserves and 7.7 percent of natural gas.  “Africa, especially  East Africa , is becoming more and more
interesting and prospective and we want to be in the thick of
it,” Sarraf said in a telephone interview from New Delhi. “The
region is emerging as a liquid natural gas hub and companies
with aspirations to grow quickly are rushing in there.”  With the rupee plummeting to an all-time low, borrowing
overseas will help minimize  currency risk  as ONGC and smaller
government-run rival  Oil India Ltd. (OINL)  compete with Chinese
explorers for energy assets. Securing fuel supplies is crucial
for  Asia ’s third-biggest economy as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  struggles to narrow a record current-account deficit and
revive growth from a decade low.  Output Drop  CNPC and  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  announced $8.8
billion of acquisitions this year in Africa, beating the $5.14
billion of deals by their Indian rivals, including the $2.6
billion agreement this week by ONGC for  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC) ’s 10 percent stake in the offshore Rovuma Area 1  gas field 
in Mozambique.  ONGC, which is seeking to reverse a drop in output from its
aging fields at home, plans to spend 11 trillion rupees ($163
billion) by 2030 to add reserves in India and overseas.  “Indian companies should look at buying assets in Africa
before more discoveries are made because that would mean paying
hefty premiums,” said Mayur Patel, a Chennai-based analyst with
Spark Capital Advisors, who has a buy rating on the stock.
“Africa is a good region to look at. It has lot of gas
opportunities especially in Tanzania and Mozambique.”  Oil India, the nation’s second-biggest state-run explorer
that bought a 10 percent stake in June jointly with ONGC in the
same Mozambique gas field from  Videocon Industries Ltd. (VCLF) , is also
seeking more in Africa, finance director T.K. Ananth Kumar said
in a phone interview Aug. 27.  Oil Discounts  Once the deals are completed in the East African country,
ONGC will have 16 percent interest, Oil India 4 percent and
 Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL)  10 percent of the Rovuma 1 block.  The need to sell oil at a discount to refiners under a
government mandate to cap  inflation  has eroded ONGC’s cash
reserves, straining finances. Profit fell for the fourth
straight quarter through June 30, the longest streak of declines
in three years.  Net cash dwindled 16 percent to 130 billion rupees on March
31 from a year ago, pushing bonds to a four-month low on Aug. 20.
The yield on ONGC’s 3.75 percent dollar debt due May 2023 has
surged 311 basis points since they started trading on April 30
to 6.87 percent, according to Standard Chartered Plc prices.  ‘Increasing Worry’  “The lower cash balance and profit are increasingly a
worry and a constraint for ONGC,” said D.K. Aggarwal, New
Delhi-based chairman of SMC Investments & Advisors Ltd., which
manages $100 million of Indian shares. “But the government
wants ONGC to get oil resources outside India because there
isn’t enough at home and that’s a drag on the economy.”  ONGC shares gained 0.2 percent to 249.15 rupees in Mumbai
trading today. The stock has  declined  7 percent this year,
compared with a 4.2 percent drop in the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX) 
index. Oil India has lost 6.7 percent.  A cash crunch engineered by the  Reserve Bank of India  to
rescue a plunging rupee has driven up benchmark five-year AAA
rated local-currency corporate bond yields in India by 118 basis
points to 10.29 percent this year. It touched an almost five-year high of 10.75 percent on Aug. 19.  Dollar-denominated bonds, when repaid with overseas
earnings, help shield the company from a weaker rupee that
inflates the value of the debt. The local currency has tumbled
16.5 percent this year, Asia’s worst performance.  “We’re likely to fund as much as possible, maybe even all
of it, with overseas debt since it’s a dollar project in
 Mozambique ,” Sarraf said in the Aug. 27 interview.  Missed Chances  ONGC in April sold $500 million of 10-year notes at 210
basis points over U.S. Treasuries and $300 million of five-year
debt at a premium of 190 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Competition from other Asian nations often means missed
opportunity for Indian state explorers. A falling rupee may also
make overseas assets more expensive, said Neelabh Sharma, a
Mumbai-based analyst with BOB Capital Markets Ltd.  In July,  Kazakhstan ’s government blocked ONGC’s $5 billion
bid for a 8.4 percent interest in the Kashagan oil field, the
nation’s biggest, according to the oil and gas ministry. CNPC
will acquire the stake from the Kazakh government, people with
knowledge of the matter said June 28.  Seven years ago, the Chinese company beat ONGC by paying
$4.18 billion for PetroKazakhstan Inc., then China’s biggest
overseas oil deal.  “After the rupee’s fall and rising subsidy burden, Indian
 oil companies  may not be able to continue paying top dollars for
acquisitions,” Sharma said  “ONGC’s cash is fast eroding and
they will have to rely on debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Debjit Chakraborty in New Delhi at 
 dchakrabor10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  