-- Morgan Stanley Sued by Federal Credit Union Regulator
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-08-30T17:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/morgan-stanley-sued-by-federal-credit-union-regulator.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s
largest brokerage, was sued by the federal credit union
regulator over the sale of $566 million in residential mortgage-backed securities to two credit unions that failed.  The bank and three units made misleading statements about
the securities in offering documents,  National Credit Union
Administration  said in the complaint filed Aug. 16 in federal
court in  Kansas City , Kansas. The agency announced the lawsuit
today, saying it waited until all defendants were served.  Originators of the securities “systematically abandoned
the stated underwriting guidelines in the offering documents,”
the agency said in a statement today. “The securities were
significantly riskier than represented.”  NCUA, based in Alexandria, Virginia, previously sued
securities firms run by banks including Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and UBS
AG over the MBS sales.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment on the allegations.  NCUA, which is responsible for covering losses to minimize
costs to its industry-funded stabilization fund, said it has
recovered $335 million in settlements with  Bank of America 
Corp., Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc.  Failed Unions  The agency is seeking to recoup from Morgan Stanley losses
it claimed contributed to the 2010 liquidation of U.S. Central
Federal Credit Union, based in Lenexa, Kansas, and Western
Corporate Federal Credit Union, based in San Dimas, California,
according to the complaint.  “Firms like Morgan Stanley sold securities that turned out
to be faulty, triggering a crisis in the credit union industry
that has been extremely expensive to contain and repair, and
 credit unions  are still paying the tab,” NCUA Chairman Debbie Matz said in the agency’s statement.  The case is National Credit Union Administration Board v.
 Morgan Stanley & Co ., 13-cv-2418, U.S. District Court, District
of Kansas (Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  