-- Origin Energy to Cut Costs in Australia’s Biggest Loan This Year
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-08-30T10:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/origin-energy-to-cut-costs-in-australia-s-biggest-loan-this-year.html
Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  is cutting
borrowing costs by as much as 50 basis points as  Australia ’s
largest electricity retailer markets the country’s biggest
syndicated loan this year.  The company’s A$7.4 billion ($6.6 billion) facility
includes a five-year loan paying 170 basis points more than the
bank bill swap rate, according to two people familiar with the
company’s financial arrangements. That compares with the 220
basis point margin it paid on a similar-maturity loan in
October, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Australia’s economic growth slowed for the fourth straight
quarter in the first three months of the year, prompting Reserve
Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  to cut  interest rates  to record
lows. The country’s companies paid on average 256 basis points
to take out loans this year, down from 321 basis points in the
same period in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Origin’s financing terms reflect “the current scope and
size of the business,” the Sydney-based company said in an
exchange statement last week. Spokeswoman Anneliis Allen
declined to comment on the financing details when contacted by
phone today.  The company, which is  rated  BBB by  Standard & Poor’s  and
Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, is paying 155 basis points
more the the benchmark on the four-year portion of the loan, the
people who spoke today said. That’s 45 basis points less than
what it paid in October, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  Origin is offering incentive fees of between 50 to 65 basis
points to lenders that commit at least A$250 million to the loan
in early September and an extra fee if they pledge early in the
month, the people said, asking not to be identified because the
details are private. The facility is the largest one in
Australia and  New Zealand  this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  At least a A$2 billion one-year piece of that loan is
slated to be refinanced in the  capital markets , four separate
people said earlier this week.  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ) , Bank of America Corp. Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS AG, will retain that
part of the loan, which has two options to be extended by the
more years, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  