-- Losses Stalk Bond Investors in August as Europe’s Economy Grows
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-08-30T08:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/losses-stalk-bond-investors-in-august-as-europe-s-economy-grows.html
Corporate bondholders in  Europe 
forfeited 0.2 percent in August, the fourth month of losses in a
year that’s poised to generate the worst returns since 2008.  Investment-grade debt in euros is returning 0.8 percent so
far this year compared with 9 percent in the same period of
2012, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Average
yields on the securities jumped nine basis points this month to
2.04 percent, near the highest in seven weeks, while yields on
 junk-rated  bonds climbed 14 basis points to 4.9 percent,
according to Bloomberg index data.  The corporate debt market is being hurt by speculation that
accelerating economic growth will undermine the pledges of
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  and Bank of England
Governor  Mark Carney  to maintain  interest rates  at record lows
for an extended period. The euro-area economy grew 0.3 percent
in the three months through June, ending six quarters of
contraction, while the region’s services expanded for the first
time in 19 months in August.  “As it looks as though we’re finally exiting the economic
slump, rates have risen, weighing on total returns,” said
Harpreet Parhar, a credit strategist at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in
London. “European economic data has been coming in much better
than expected which makes it harder for Draghi and Carney to
talk down rates.”  Markets are also being roiled by the prospect of the
 Federal Reserve  slowing $85 billion of monthly asset purchases.
U.S. corporate bonds lost 0.8 percent this month as traders
anticipate a reduction in monetary easing to begin as soon as
September.  Military Action  “Markets are a bit weaker this month,” said Alain van der Heijden, a  fund manager  at Kempen Capital Management in
Amsterdam, which oversees 1.4 billion euros ($1.8 billion) in
corporate bonds. “There’s fear the Fed will cut stimulus, while
improving economic data in Europe is having a further upward
effect on yields.”  The possibility of the U.S. taking military action against
Syria, along with German elections on Sept. 22 in which
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  will defend her coalition’s majority,
are also weighing on credit markets.  The cost of insuring corporate bonds against losses
increased this month, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of
credit-default swaps on 125 companies with investment-grade
ratings climbing 7 basis points to 107, the biggest increase
since June. The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies
with mostly speculative-grade ratings jumped 26 basis points to
430 basis points, near the highest in seven weeks.  Corporate Issuance  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Companies sold 43.4 billion euros of bonds this month, the
least since December and 16 percent down on last August, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. This week, issuance rose to 16.9
billion euros, the most in seven weeks, including deals from
 Orange SA (ORA) , France’s largest phone company, and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
Europe’s biggest automaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  