-- Total Chief Stokes Speculation Over Petrochemicals Operations
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-08-30T18:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/total-chief-stokes-speculation-over-petrochemicals-operations.html
Total SA (FP)  Chief Executive Officer
Christophe de Margerie raised the possibility that the country’s
biggest oil company is planning an overhaul amid speculation
over the future of its petrochemicals operations.  An employee meeting has been called for Sept. 4 to discuss
Total’s petrochemicals strategy as well as a future project for
its Carling plant in northern France, de Margerie said in an
interview today outside Paris. He told a panel discussion the
company may restructure its French operations.  He declined to comment further on Carling, citing French
law under which changes that may affect jobs must first be given
to workers at meetings like the one planned for next week.  “Total could announce a plan to halt the steam cracker”
at Carling, Eric Sellini, the CGT union coordinator at the
French oil company, said by telephone. “I don’t think the whole
site will be shut but we just don’t know.”  Total, which gets most of its earnings from oil and natural
gas production, has struggled to boost profits at its refining
and petrochemicals divisions in recent years. The explorer
unveiled an overhaul in 2011 to merge crude processing and
petrochemicals and separate out fuel marketing.  “Total, like others, will have to carry out” a
restructuring in  France , de Margerie said today during a panel
discussion at a meeting of the employers’ group known as Medef.  Europe’s third-largest oil company has already reduced
European refining through the closing of its plant near Dunkirk
in France, capacity reduction at Normandy and the sale of its 49
percent stake in Spain’s Cia. Espanola de Petroleos SA. Total
has also tried and failed to sell its Lindsey plant in the U.K.  Make Plastics  The Carling plant, which makes petrochemicals such as
ethylene and propylene at the site near the German border,
employs 350 Total workers as well as sub-contractors, Sellini
said. These chemicals are used to make plastics.  Total has four steam crackers in France, including units at
the Gonfreville, Feyzin and Lavera refineries. The company cut
jobs at Carling in a plan announced in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  