-- Town Halls Are Out as Congress Dodges Unscreened Voters
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-08-30T16:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/town-halls-are-out-as-congress-dodges-unscreened-voters.html
Representative Scott Rigell knows
he’s a talker. He owns auto dealerships, where a knack for
storytelling comes in handy. So when the  Virginia  Republican
takes the floor at an Aug. 22 breakfast with constituents in
Norfolk, he sets a timer to keep his inner salesman from
carrying on too long.  The event is billed as a chance to “talk town-hall style”
with the congressman. The venue is more classroom than
auditorium, and it’s far from a come-one-come-all crowd.
Instead, it’s a friendly audience, about 40 members of the
 American Institute of Architects  chapter that asked for the
meeting, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept. 2 issue.  Rigell speechifies for a good 15 minutes about how Congress
is broken, a noncontroversial topic that plays well in his
district, which voted him into a second term last year and also
reelected President  Barack Obama . He takes just four questions -
- about the  federal budget , the cost of education,  energy
policy , and civic duty. His answers are light on specifics and
steer back to his theme of fixing Washington. “We’re better
than this as Americans,” he says.  Scenes like this played out across the country in August,
as members of Congress, home until Sept. 9 for a five-week
recess they’ve rebranded as a “district work period,” travel
around hearing the concerns of ordinary voters. That’s the way
it used to be, anyway. Gone are the packed, freewheeling town
halls of the past, where voters stood up at microphones and
pelted elected officials with questions on just about anything.  Traumatic Summer  Members of Congress largely put an end to unscripted, up-close-and-personal events after the traumatic summer of 2009,
when dozens of lawmakers were shouted down by mad-as-hell Tea
Partiers and citizens angry that the proposed Affordable Care
Act was going too far or not far enough. It was a “toxic
mess,” says  Jim Manley , a former aide to Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid .  Former Representative  Mike Castle , a moderate Delaware
Republican who’d held hundreds of town halls during his 20 years
in Congress, recalls that at one event, captured on YouTube,
people started yelling at him about Obamacare “death panels”
and the president’s “fake” birth certificate. Castle, who lost
his primary that year, says a dozen colleagues who saw the video
told him afterward, “No more live town halls. I’m done with
that.”  This summer is all about keeping a safe distance from
voters and sticking to the party script. Before Congress left
town, House Democratic and Republican leaders handed out “tool
kits” full of talking points and specific event ideas, along
with sample editorials written and ready to be planted in
hometown newspapers. This enables them to stay within the
preprogrammed  Washington  bubble even when they’re outside the
safety of the Beltway.  Took Kits  Both parties’ tool kits urge members to focus on small
gatherings with friendly audiences, keeping in touch with the
public on Facebook and Twitter. Democrats were told to play up
Obamacare benefits. “Find a woman in your district who has a
‘pre-existing condition,’ such as being a breast cancer
survivor, and who has had a hard time finding insurance, and
hold a press conference,” party leaders suggest. Talk about
immigration-law changes in “meet-and-greets with successful
immigrant entrepreneurs from the district or from the state.
Have them tell their inspirational story.”  Republicans advise members to seed events with business
owners suffering under “excessive Washington-imposed
regulations” that are “hindering their ability to expand.”  100% on Message  For a suggested “ObamaCare Media Tour,” in which
preselected companies are tapped to talk about how the law is
hurting business, the kit stresses: “Confirm the theme(s) prior
to the event and make sure the participants will be 100% on
message.” And for a “gas and groceries tour” about rising
prices, members’ staffs are told to be sure the business owners
“are comfortable with the Member visiting their location, and
confirm they are comfortable with the overall messaging theme.”  Heeding the Democratic handbook, Representative Bobby Scott
of Virginia has been posting online videos promoting Obamacare
(the most recent has racked up 34 views) and holding “info
sessions” about the law’s benefits.  In  Florida , Republican Marco Rubio, who put his
conservative credentials on the line by leading the Senate’s
immigration bill, has played down the topic during a 330-mile
trek through the state. Immigration is pointedly missing from
the Republicans’ list of recommended topics. In a 35-minute
speech to the Rotary Club of Jacksonville, he spent less than 90
seconds on the issue.  Town Conference Call  Representative  Xavier Becerra , a California Democrat, held
a town-hall meeting by telephone on July 23 -- “a convenient
and efficient alternative to a traditional town hall,” the
party tool kit says. Callers first screened by an aide were
allowed to ask Becerra a question. A woman who asked about
Obamacare “putting a chip under your skin and linking it to
anything you own” was quickly cut off. Becerra politely replied
that as far as he knows, chip implantation wasn’t a feature of
the law. Next question, please.  Markwayne Mullin is one member of Congress who isn’t shying
away from voters. The Oklahoma Republican was first elected to
the House in 2012. He’s hosted 26 town halls across his district
this summer, often doing more than one a day. All are invited,
and anyone can grab the mic.  Hundreds have showed up. Mullin has received some
uncomfortable questions -- a birther tried to corner him about
the president’s citizenship -- otherwise it’s been remarkably
civil.  “People during my campaign were telling me, ‘The only time
I see my congressman is during the election,’ ” Mullin says.
“I didn’t want to be like that, to be so fake and have people
think I just want to be around them when I’m trying to get re-elected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  