-- Philippine Peso Heads for Worst Month Since May 2012; Bonds Drop
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-08-30T05:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/philippine-peso-heads-for-worst-month-since-may-2012-bonds-drop.html
The Philippine peso headed for its
biggest monthly decline since May 2012 on concern the U.S. will
start paring stimulus that has supported  emerging markets .
 Government bonds  fell.  Speculation the Federal Reserve will taper could spur asset
re-pricing and cause capital outflows, Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said in a speech
yesterday. The peso should be supported by fundamentals and the
BSP will let the exchange rate be market-determined with “scope
for official action” to curb volatility, Guinigundo said. The
$250 billion economy grew 7.5 percent in the second quarter,
beating the 7.2 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  “The big question is still what the Fed will do next
month,” said Alan Cayetano, head of foreign-currency trading at
Bank of the Philippine Islands in  Manila . “Demand for dollars
is also rising as we go into the thick of the imports season.
The central bank has been seen in the past few days providing
liquidity at the 44.75 level.”  The peso fell 2.7 percent this month and rose 0.3 percent
today to 44.63 per dollar at the noon trading break in Manila,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, advanced 117 basis points this month to 7.3 percent.
The rate slipped 19 basis points today.  The yield on the benchmark five-year bond climbed 53 basis
points, or 0.53 percentage point, this month and fell two basis
points today to 3.48 percent, according to midday fixing prices
from the Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp.  Weakening Peso  The peso will probably weaken to 45.20 to 45.30 in the
coming weeks, Cayetano said. The Philippine currency has
declined 8 percent this year, compared with an 18 percent plunge
in the rupee and a 10 percent slide in the rupiah, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation this month may range between 1.9 percent and 2.7
percent, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday,
keeping consumer price gains within the 3 percent to 5 percent
target this year. The government will report August inflation
data on Sept. 5.  The  Philippines  doesn’t need to tap any currency swap
arrangement at this point as foreign-currency reserves are at
comfortable levels, Guinigundo said today, adding that the
currency’s pass-through impact on inflation has declined.  The  Federal Reserve  will probably reduce its $85 billion
monthly bond purchases in September, according to 65 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg this month. Many Philippine
exporters typically boost raw material imports going into the
fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  