-- Puerto Rico Debt Poised for Worst Year Since 2000: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-08-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/puerto-rico-debt-poised-for-worst-year-since-2000-muni-credit.html
Municipal debt from Puerto Rico is
poised for its worst year since at least 2000 as the U.S.
commonwealth prepares to sell its first general-obligation bonds
in 18 months.  Securities from the island have lost  16.3 percent  this
year, more than three times the decline of the $3.7 trillion
municipal market, Standard & Poor’s data show. Borrowings of the
territory and its local agencies haven’t had an annual drop that
steep since at least 2000. Puerto Rico is on the brink of
speculative grade amid recurring budget deficits and a pension
system that has a lower funding level than any U.S. state.  The $600 million general-obligation refinancing sale
planned for September will repay loans used to balance the
budget for the fiscal year that ended June 30, Jose Pagan,
interim president of the Government Development Bank for Puerto
Rico, said last month. Investors demanded  2.76 percentage points 
of extra yield as of Aug. 28 to buy 30-year commonwealth general
obligations rather than top-rated munis, the most since January,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Individuals are running scared on Puerto Rico right
now,” said Matt Dalton, who manages $1.6 billion of munis at
Belle Haven Investments Inc. in White Plains, New York.
“There’s a good chance that it will be the underperformer for
2013.”  Island Punished  Bond buyers are punishing Puerto Rico as they favor higher-rated securities during the biggest wave of withdrawals from
municipal debt since 2011. As investors bet a growing economy
will lead the Federal Reserve to curtail its bond buying, the
muni market has lost 5 percent this year, according to S&P.  While benchmark muni yields reached a two-year high this
month, Puerto Rico debt fared worse. Individual investors, who
own about 70 percent of the municipal market, are “spooked” by
the drop in prices on the territory’s bonds and are selling,
Dalton said.  Puerto Rico debt is tax-exempt nationwide, allowing state-specific muni mutual funds to buy the securities. Investors have
pulled $5.9 billion this year from U.S. muni mutual funds
focusing on lower-rated and non-investment-grade munis,
according to Lipper US Fund Flows data through Aug. 28. That’s
the most since 2011.  Shrinking Economy  The island of 3.7 million people had an unemployment rate
of 13.5 percent in July, compared with 7.4 percent nationwide.
Puerto Rico’s economy shrank 4.5 percent in the year through
June, the steepest contraction since 2010, according to the
Development Bank.  Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 42, who took office in
January, enacted a budget for the fiscal year that began July 1
that uses $750 million of deficit financing, the smallest amount
since at least 2009, according to the Development Bank. The
governor, a member of the Popular Democratic Party, has raised
taxes to help balance the budget.  Lawmakers this year also boosted the retirement age and
increased employee retirement contributions.  While reducing budget gaps and enacting pension changes are
supportive, “what investors are nervous about, though, is the
volume of debt on an economy that doesn’t appear to be
growing,” said Guy Davidson, who helps manage $31 billion as
director of munis at AllianceBernstein LP in New York. “They’ve
bought themselves some time, but Puerto Rico needs to grow.”  Debt Load  The commonwealth had about $70 billion of public-sector
debt as of June 30, according to the Development Bank, which
handles the island’s capital-market transactions. Net tax-supported debt of $14,053 per capita last year was more than in
any state, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Puerto Rico’s last general-obligation sale was a $2.7
billion refunding deal in March 2012, Bloomberg data show.  Debt from that sale that matures in July 2041 traded
yesterday at an average yield of 8.13 percent, the highest since
its issue, Bloomberg data show.  The Development Bank declined to say if it will postpone
the general-obligation deal or a planned borrowing of $750
million to $1 billion for the Puerto Rico Highways &
Transportation Authority.  The commonwealth refinancing and the highway agency 
sale will repay two $400 million bond-anticipation-note 
deals. The GDB said in a release yesterday that it had 
closed those loans.  ``The successful placement of these securities 
demonstrates the confidence the financial community has'' in 
the commonwealth, the roads authority and the GDB, Pagan 
said in a statement.  Financing Plan  “We continue to work on our financing plan and are re-evaluating our alternatives based on market conditions,” Betsy
Nazario, a spokeswoman for the bank, said via e-mail before the
note sale announcement.  Losses on Puerto Rico accelerated after Barron’s published
an article in its Aug. 26 issue on the commonwealth’s fiscal
challenges.  The value of the island’s debt may drop even further as the
commonwealth borrows in the next couple of months, Dalton said.  “It’s going to make it awfully difficult to bring another
deal into the market right now, which puts pressure on them once
again,” he said.  In the nationwide market for new issues, municipalities
from New Jersey to Oregon plan to offer about $2 billion of
long-term debt next week, which will be shortened by the Sept. 2
Labor Day holiday. It will be the slowest holiday week since
January.  At  3.1 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are close
to the highest since April 2011, and compare with about  2.76
percent (USGG10YR)  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields is about  112 percent , after
reaching the highest since July 2012 this week. The greater the
figure, the cheaper munis are relative to Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 