-- Ringgit Heads for Fourth Monthly Drop on Current-Account Concern
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-08-30T02:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/ringgit-heads-for-fourth-monthly-drop-on-current-account-concern.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit headed for its
fourth monthly drop as the nation’s deteriorating current-account position spurred concern among investors preparing for
the Federal Reserve to taper stimulus. Government bonds rose.  The currency touched a three-year low of 3.3377 per dollar
on Aug. 28 after a report last week showed the  surplus  in the
broadest measure of trade shrank 70 percent in the second
quarter. Fitch Ratings cut its outlook on Malaysia to negative
from stable last month, citing public debt levels. The Fed will
begin to slow bond purchases at its Sept. 17-18 meeting,
according to 65 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The Fed’s taper has shifted the market’s focus to
emerging-market asset values and imbalances such as the
deterioration in current accounts,” said  Nizam Idris , the head
of fixed income and currency strategy at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in
 Singapore . “The market is re-pricing Malaysia’s assets along
with all the other emerging-market countries.”  The ringgit dropped 1.8 percent this month to 3.3040 per
dollar as of 10:04 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency gained 0.1 percent this week
and 0.3 percent today. It has lost almost 8 percent in four
months. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in exchange rates used to price options, rose 34 basis
points in August to 9.54 percent.  Malaysia’s current-account surplus narrowed to 2.6 billion
ringgit ($787 million) in the second quarter from 8.7 billion
ringgit in the previous three months, the closest the country
has come to recording a deficit in data compiled by Bloomberg
going back to 1999.  Bonds Advance  The ringgit faces the most pressure among Asian currencies
after  India ’s rupee and  Indonesia ’s rupiah because of Malaysia’s
worsening current-account position and high foreign ownership of
its debt, Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a research notes last week.  Government bonds advanced. The yield on the 3.26 percent
notes due March 2018 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, in August to 3.68 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rate climbed three basis points this week and was
little changed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  