-- San Francisco Gasoline Advances on Fuel Tankers, Tight Supplies
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-08-30T19:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/san-francisco-gasoline-advances-on-fuel-tankers-tight-supplies.html
Spot gasoline in San Francisco
strengthened to a six-week high against futures as tankers were
seen exporting fuel from Northern  California  refineries amid
declining state supplies.  The oil-products tanker Marlin Topaz left  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s
Rodeo refinery, northeast of San Francisco, last week and was
headed for  Ecuador , according to vessel data compiled by  IHS
Inc. (IHS)  The Valle Bianca left the San Francisco area yesterday and
was bound for Rosario,  Mexico . The NCC REEM is expected to
arrive at the Rodeo refinery Sept. 5, and the Overseas Kythnos
left  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Richmond plant yesterday, the data show.  California-blend gasoline  stockpiles  tumbled to 5.53
million barrels last week, a five-week low, the state Energy
Commission said Aug. 28. Gasoline supplies on the West Coast
fell by the most since April, according to the Energy
Information Administration.  Carbob in San Francisco surged 12.5 cents against futures
traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange to a premium of 5
cents a gallon at 1:55 p.m. New York time, the highest level
since July 15, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Prompt-delivery
of the fuel gained 7.69 cents to $2.9325 a gallon.  The same fuel in Los Angeles strengthened 7.5 cents versus
futures to a premium of 3.5 cents a gallon. Los Angeles Carbob
 retreated  5 cents versus the fuel in San Francisco to a discount
of 1.5 cents a gallon.  Retail gasoline  in California rose 0.5 cent to average
$3.812 a gallon, Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the nation’s
largest motoring organization, said on its website.  Portland Gasoline  Conventional gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon , a benchmark for
the U.S. Pacific Northwest, shrank its discount to Nymex futures
by 5 cents to 11 cents a gallon.  The products tanker Kriti Ruby was expected to arrive in
Anacortes,  Washington , tomorrow, according to IHS data. Ultra-low-sulfur diesel at the terminal rack in  Vancouver , British
Columbia, was selling for 94 Canadian cents (89 U.S. cents) a
liter yesterday, the highest since May 2012.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and California-grade diesel in Los Angeles,
widened $1.60 to $12.41 a barrel at 2:05 p.m. New York time. The
spread, a rough indicator of refining profitability, is at the
highest level in two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  