-- Secret Service Must Produce Some White House Records
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-08-30T17:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/secret-service-must-produce-white-house-visitor-records.html
U.S.  Secret Service  records of
visitors to the White House, except those pertaining to people
visiting the president’s office, must be disclosed under the
Freedom of Information Act, a federal appeals court ruled.  Congress didn’t want to impinge on executive branch
authority by requiring disclosure of people who meet with the
president in his office, Circuit Judge  Merrick Garland  wrote for
a three-judge panel in  Washington .  “In order to avoid substantial separation of powers
questions, we conclude that Congress did not intend to authorize
FOIA requesters to obtain indirectly from the Secret Service
information that it had expressly barred requesters from
obtaining directly from the president,” Garland wrote.  Records of visitors to most of the White House complex are
agency records subject to FOIA, the court ruled. The court could
have used disclosure exemptions in FOIA to protect the
confidentiality of the most sensitive presidential meetings,
instead of putting them completely out of reach of the open
records law, said Tom Fitton, president of Judicial Watch, the
Washington-based legal activist group that filed the suit
leading to today’s ruling.  ‘Held Accountable’  “A president who doesn’t want this information available
is a president that doesn’t want to be held accountable,”
Fitton said in a phone interview. “We’re considering an
appeal.”  Brian Leary, a spokesman for the Secret Service, didn’t
immediately respond to phone and e-mail requests for comment on
the ruling.  Judicial Watch’s suit sought the names of people who
visited the White House during the first seven months of
President  Barack Obama ’s first term.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News , is
among a dozen media companies and organizations that filed a
legal brief supporting Judicial Watch’s position.  In August 2011, U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell, an Obama
appointee, ordered the agency to process the group’s data
request.  The appeals panel decision narrows the pool of people
subject to disclosure to those who visited a part of the White
House other than the Office of the President.  Visitor Logs  Former President  George W. Bush  also fought to keep such
visitor records private. Obama said Sept. 4, 2009, that his
administration would begin releasing the visitor logs after
being sued by at least one watchdog group for details on whom
government officials were meeting with.  As many as 100,000 people visit the White House every
month, including tour groups. The administration said it intends
to release all names except in cases involving national security
or when the visit is confidential, such as a presidential
interview with a potential Supreme Court nominee.  Fitton said there’s no way to check the administration’s
fidelity to its disclosure pledge except through FOIA requests.  The case is Judicial Watch Inc. v. U.S. Secret Service,
11-5282,  U.S. Court of Appeals ,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  