-- Seized Snowden Files Threaten Lives, Economy, U.K. Says
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-08-30T13:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/seized-snowden-files-threaten-agents-lives-economy-u-k-says.html
Documents seized from the partner of
Guardian journalist Glenn Greenwald might threaten U.K. national
security, damage the economy and lead to “widespread loss of
life,” a government adviser said.  The information, taken from David Miranda on Aug. 18 at
 Heathrow Airport , “is highly likely to describe techniques
which have been crucial in life-saving counter-terrorist
operations” and could identify British intelligence agents
abroad, Oliver Robbins, a U.K. national security adviser, said
in documents released during a court hearing in London today.  Miranda was held for nine hours by British security forces,
which seized 58,000 classified documents obtained by the former
U.S. security contractor Edward Snowden. Miranda was used as a
courier to carry information for Greenwald, who reported on
Snowden’s allegations about U.S. surveillance programs. Snowden,
who faces U.S. espionage charges, has been given temporary
asylum in  Russia .  Miranda denies the U.K. government’s claims and is
challenging the legality of its actions,  Matthew Ryder , his
lawyer, told the court. The court extended an order today
allowing officials to inspect the material for national security
purposes.  The government told Guardian staff it had “no confidence
in their ability to keep the material safe” and asked the
newspaper to destroy it, according to Robbins’s statement.
Greenwald and Miranda have demonstrated “poor judgment” in
handling the material, including carrying a piece of paper
containing the password for encrypted files.  Terrorism, Journalism  “The Guardian took every decision on what to publish very
slowly and very carefully and when we met with government
officials in July they acknowledged that we had displayed a
’responsible’ attitude,” Alan Rusbridger, the editor-in-chief
of the Guardian, said in a statement. “The government’s
behavior does not match their rhetoric in trying to justify and
exploit this dismaying blurring of terrorism and journalism.”  U.K. police opened a criminal investigation into the
documents on Aug. 22. They said a thorough examination is
necessary to protect the public.  “An initial examination of the seized material has
identified highly sensitive material within thousands of
classified intelligence documents,” the  Metropolitan Police
Service  said in an e-mailed statement  The case is The Queen on the application of Miranda v
Secretary of State  Home Office , case no. 13-11732,  High Court  of
Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  