-- Serbian Premier Asks Lawmakers to Back Revamped Cabinet
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-08-30T14:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/serbian-premier-asks-lawmakers-to-back-revamped-cabinet.html
Serbian Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic 
asked lawmakers to approve the former Yugoslav republic’s
revamped cabinet tomorrow, pledging to stoke economic growth,
create jobs and bring the nation closer to European Union entry.  Dacic and Deputy Premier Aleksandar Vucic introduced the
nine new members of the 13-month-old cabinet today, a month
after ejecting  Mladjan Dinkic , who ran a combined Finance and
Economy Ministry, and his party from the government. Lawmakers
yesterday approved splitting Dinkic’s former ministry in two.  Political leaders need to carry out budget cuts to win aid
from the  International Monetary Fund  and convince Serbs who live
in Kosovo to take part in local November elections as they
prepare to start talks on EU membership. They also need to
persuade investors after two recessions in three years left one
in four workers jobless and pushed borrowing costs through the 7
percent threshold that triggered bailouts in the euro area.  “We are still facing a difficult period, a complex global
situation, a struggle for a just  Kosovo  solution, the halt of
economic decline and a fight for every single new job,” Dacic
told lawmakers in Belgrade. “That’s why I ask you to support
the appointment of new members of the government.”  Vucic’s poll-leading Serbian Progressive Party is pushing
for spending cuts, including public wages and pensions, a plan
opposed by Dacic’s Socialist Party and its Pensioners Party
allies. He will promote his plans through incoming Finance
Minister Lazar Krstic, a former McKinsey & Co. associate, who
will attempt to sell Serbia as a safer investment.  Election Threat  The vote scheduled for tomorrow has already been delayed by
more than a week after the prime minister’s party failed to
agree on its own list of nominees and prompted its larger ruling
partner to threaten early elections.  “November elections in Kosovo are their first test,
followed by January, when we will see if  Serbia  opens talks with
the European Union,” Predrag Simic, a political analyst in
Belgrade, said by phone yesterday. “By that time they need to
do something with the economy. If not, we will have elections
sooner than anyone would have thought.”  The government needs 1.6 billion euros ($2.1 billion) to
1.7 billion euros to get it through the end of the year, Milojko
Arsic, the chief economist at the Foundation for Advancement of
Economics, said in an interview on Aug. 26.  Yields on 10-year Eurobonds maturing in 2021 rose 4 basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, this week to 7.209 percent by
11:52 a.m. in Belgrade. The dinar has weakened 0.23 percent this
week to 114.5075 to the euro, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Foreign investors are looking for a stable government for
uninterrupted progress toward EU accession and smooth market
financing, “but market logic sometimes does not work when
applied to Serbian politics, where big political egos play more
dominant roles,” Timothy Ash, the chief emerging-markets
economist at  Standard Bank  in  London , said in a note to clients
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  