-- Shadow of False Iraq Intelligence Hangs Over Syria Strike
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-08-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/shadow-of-false-iraq-intelligence-hangs-over-syria-strike.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s case
for punitive military action against Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad is haunted by events a decade ago, when his predecessor
based his case for invading Iraq on false intelligence about
 Saddam Hussein ’s weapons of mass destruction.  After President  George W. Bush  took America and its allies
to war in Iraq over non-existent WMDs, Obama and allied leaders
must overcome heightened scrutiny of their arguments justifying
retaliation against Assad’s regime for a chemical attack.  The effort is made more difficult by the fact that, so far,
intelligence on  Syria  doesn’t absolutely prove that the Aug. 21
attack, which killed hundreds of civilians, was ordered by Assad
or his top commanders.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , facing resistance to
military strikes by members of both his  Conservative Party  and
the opposition  Labour Party , acknowledged the credibility
concerns when he spoke to the House of Commons yesterday.  “The well of public opinion was well and truly poisoned by
the Iraq episode, and we need to understand the public
skepticism,” said Cameron, who in the past criticized his
predecessor,  Tony Blair , for issuing a “dodgy dossier” on
alleged Iraqi WMDs.  “The answer is we must do the right thing and in the right
way,” Cameron said. “We must be sure to learn the lessons of
previous conflicts.”  After Cameron spoke, the House of Commons rejected a motion
endorsing, in principal, military strikes against Syria.  Not Pretext  Obama, too, is seeking to persuade Americans and the
international community that he’s not seeking a pretext to
intervene in the Syrian civil war, in which the UN estimates
more than 100,000 people have been killed by conventional
weapons.  “We can take limited, tailored approaches, not getting
drawn into a long conflict, not a repetition of, you know,  Iraq ,
which I know a lot of people are worried about,” he said Aug.
28 on PBS’s “NewsHour.”  The Iraq WMD episode “creates a very long shadow,” said
Greg Thielmann, who had been a dissenting State Department
intelligence official before the Iraq invasion.  “Now, particularly when the storyline has some
similarities with the story line in the past, it is much harder
to believe what the U.S. administration says,” Thielmann said
in a phone interview.  ‘Fundamental Differences’  That’s the case “even though you have some very
fundamental differences, starting with a very different kind of
president and an intelligence community which in some
fundamental ways has reformed the kind of procedures and
characteristics that led to the problem in the past,” said
Thielmann, now a senior fellow at the Arms Control Association
in  Washington .  While the intelligence community knew that the  Bush
administration  was set on invading Iraq and “was not interested
in hearing about any kind of doubts,” Obama is “just the
opposite,” he said.  “This is an administration that would much rather not have
the information that it finds itself with, but is compelled to
follow through on what needs to be done,” he said.  Michael Stephens, a Doha, Qatar-based research analyst for
 Royal United Services Institute , said the U.K. parliament’s
debate makes it look “like they are they are tortured by what
happened in Iraq” -- though Iraq-Syria comparisons are  “very
facile and incorrect.”  Citing YouTube  “It’s interesting to note that Cameron, at Parliament,
cited publicly available information such as YouTube videos and
humanitarian accounts to justify action on Syria,” he said.
“Whereas in Iraq, intelligence was the main source of our
justification for going into war.”  State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf yesterday said
there are “considerable differences” between the current Syria
situation and the debate preceding the  Iraq war , a conflict that
the Pentagon says claimed the lives of 4,410 U.S. military
personnel.  In the case of Iraq, “the U.S. was trying to prove the
existence of weapons of mass destruction,” Harf said. “In
Syria, we not only know they exist, but they were used.”  In making its case to the public, the administration will
withhold some intelligence, such as communications intercepts,
that relies on sources and methods the U.S. will want to
protect. Other intelligence may be less than definitive in a war
in which each side blames the other for using chemical weapons
in previous smaller incidents.  ‘Vile Weapons’  “Do we know with certainty who used these vile weapons?
No,” Jacques Myard, a French opposition lawmaker who sits on
the National Assembly’s foreign affairs committee, said in an e-mailed statement. “Once bitten, twice shy: The Iraq affair
remains on everyone’s mind.”  The Obama administration is preparing to present its case
against the Syrian regime in what  Anthony Cordesman , a military
analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington, calls the “most important single document in a
decade.”  In February 2003, then-Secretary of State  Colin Powell 
presented in the UN Security Council a detailed -- and
ultimately wrong -- account of Saddam Hussein’s WMD program. He
has since said he regrets having presented false information
that he thought at the time was correct.  Report Promised  The administration plans to make public, perhaps by the end
of the week, an unclassified intelligence assessment that points
to the culpability of the Syrian regime for the use of poison
gas last week near the capital, Damascus. The report “will
either redeem the reputation of the U.S. government and U.S.
intelligence community or undermine it in ways that may take
decades to recover from,” said Cordesman.  “Every error, every overstatement or fact in that first
report that does not prove out over time, will impact on U.S.
credibility indefinitely into the future,” he said in an
analysis posted on the research group’s  website . “The limits
and flaws in what that initial report says will fuel every anti-American conspiracy theory in the region.”  Because the intelligence is limited, inconclusive and in
some cases contradictory, the best the administration may be
able to do is hold the dictatorial Syrian government -- not
Assad himself -- responsible for everything that happens with
its arsenal of chemical and biological weapons, three U.S.
intelligence officials said yesterday.  International Consequences  That was the course Obama took in the interview with PBS,
saying: “We have concluded that the Syrian government in fact
carried these out. And if that’s so, then there need to be
international consequences.”  Similarly, Britain’s  intelligence assessment  made public
yesterday was hedged. It found “no plausible alternative
scenarios to regime responsibility.” What remains unclear, the
assessment said, is Assad’s “precise motivation for carrying
out an attack of this scale at this time.”  Speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss
classified intelligence, the three U.S. officials said
intercepted Syrian communications provide no conclusive evidence
that Assad or members of his inner circle ordered the attack,
and two of them said the intercepts indicate that he didn’t know
about it in advance and demanded that his subordinates explain
what had happened.  ‘High Confidence’  Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and the
leaders of other U.S. agencies will be blunt in pointing out
what the U.S. doesn’t know with certainty as well as what it
knows with “high confidence,” in intelligence parlance, the
three officials said.  A fourth U.S. official, alluding to the Bush
administration’s use of false intelligence, expressed concern
that Obama administration officials have gotten ahead of the
evidence in trying to pin responsibility on Assad.  A team of UN weapons inspectors, which was already in
Damascus when last week’s attack occurred, will provide an
independent assessment of chemical weapons use, though it’s not
empowered to determine who was responsible. The Bush
administration disparaged a UN weapons team in Iraq when it
failed to find evidence of WMDs before the invasion.  “This is not like Iraq; what we are seeing in Syria is
fundamentally different,” Cameron said in the House of Commons
yesterday.  “We are not invading a country, we are not searching for
chemical or biological weapons,” he told lawmakers. “The fact
the Syrian government has and has used chemical weapons is
beyond doubt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  