-- Singh Sees Rupee Recovering on Economic Reforms
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-08-30T10:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/singh-sees-rupee-recovering-on-economic-reforms.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
defended his economic record in one of his strongest attacks on
the opposition, saying policy changes in the past year will help
stem the rupee’s plunge and revive growth.  Speaking in parliament in  New Delhi , Singh accused
Bharatiya Janata Party lawmakers of deliberately stalling
proceedings and contributing to  India ’s economic slowdown by
impeding reforms. The measures implemented by the government so
far will revive investment and the rupee, he said.  “Have you heard of any other country where the members of
the opposition walk into the well of the house shouting that the
prime minister is a thief?” Singh, 80, said. Steps to tackle
current-account and budget deficits, curb some subsidies and
speed up infrastructure projects will help  currency markets 
recover, he said.  The premier won parliamentary backing this week for two key
bills appealing to India’s poor voters as he seeks to return his
party to power in elections next year. His second term has been
marred by graft scandals, the weakest growth in a decade and
recent capital outflows that contributed to the rupee’s 17
percent slide against the dollar this year.  Congress lawmakers thumped their desks in approval after
Singh said the main opposition party had failed to accept it had
lost two consecutive elections and was no longer in power.  Graft allegations justified the BJP’s behavior, said  Arun Jaitley , the leader of the opposition in the upper house of
parliament.  Economic Slowdown  Oxford-educated Singh set about freeing the economy of its
socialist-era shackles as finance minister in 1991, when India
was facing a balance-of-payments crisis. The changes catapulted
the nation away from the so-called “Hindu rate of growth” of
about 3.5 percent.  Expansion (INGDPY)  averaged almost 8 percent in the past decade,
before the current slowdown that may see growth dip to 3.7
percent in the year ending March 2014, according to BNP Paribas
SA. Singh said predictions of 3 percent are unfounded.  Foreign investors have pulled money out of  emerging markets 
from India to  Brazil  on the prospect of cooling U.S. monetary
stimulus. India’s  economic growth  probably held below 5 percent
last quarter, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey ahead of a report later today.  “The macro-stabilization process which should support the
value of the rupee is under way,” Singh said. “As the fruits
of our efforts materialize, currency markets will recover.”  The central bank will focus on damping  inflation , he said.  The rupee strengthened 0.7 percent to 66.1250 per dollar as
of 3:44 p.m. in Mumbai, climbing for a second day after the
 Reserve Bank  of India said it will supply dollars to the largest
oil importers to cool foreign-exchange demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  