-- Sinopec to Acquire $3.1 Billion Stake in Apache Egypt Assets
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k ,   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-08-30T14:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/sinopec-agrees-to-buy-3-1-billion-stake-in-apache-egypt-assets.html
China  Petrochemical Corp., Asia’s
largest refiner, agreed to pay $3.1 billion for a 33 percent
stake in  Apache Corp. (APA) ’s Egyptian oil and gas business, marking
the state-owned company’s biggest purchase in the Middle East.  Buying the stake in the operations located in the Western
Desert, away from the centers of political unrest in  Egypt , will
increase the company’s annual production by about 9 percent,
according to Bloomberg calculations. The deal, which coincides
with a potential move by  PetroChina Co. (857)  into  Iraq , signals
China’s increasing investment in the region as it secures energy
investments.  “There definitely does seem to be a resurgence in overseas
M&A” by Chinese companies,  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said by phone. “The potential
of PetroChina going back into Iraq and this deal in Egypt shows
a willingness to take on more risk in this part of the world.”  The Chinese company is aware of the political uncertainties
in Egypt and is focused on long-term development in the region,
said Wei Fujun, a spokesman at the Sinopec International
Petroleum Exploration & Production Corp., the unit making the
purchase. The price of $3.1 billion is “very reasonable,” Wei
said by phone.  Apache and Sinopec Group, as the Beijing-based company is
known, will also form a global partnership to develop oil and
gas projects, Houston-based Apache said in a statement late
yesterday. Apache will be the operator.  Apache Shares  Apache jumped as much as 8.4 percent, the steepest intraday
gain since March 2009. The stock was up 7.6 percent at $84.60 at
9:35 a.m. in New York.  Apache’s Egypt operations contained 641 million barrels of
oil and 3.79 trillion cubic feet of gas in probable reserves at
the end of 2012, Sinopec Group estimated in the statement.  The Chinese company paid about $33 a barrel for the assets,
compared with $32.5 a barrel that Apache paid in November 2010
when it acquired  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Egyptian fields, according to
estimates from Wu Fei, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Bocom
International.  Brent, the benchmark for more than half of the world’s
crude trade, was $80 a barrel on average in 2010, compared with
$108 a barrel this year. “This deal does not appear to be more
expensive than the acquisition history in Egypt,” Wu said.  It is more expensive than the $19.9 a barrel Cnooc Ltd.
paid to  Canada ’s Nexen Inc., Wu said. Cnooc, China’s biggest
offshore energy producer, bought Nexen for $15.1 billion earlier
this year in China’s biggest overseas energy acquisition.  ‘Extremely Aggressive’  Apache will use the proceeds to reduce debt, buy back
shares and fund capital spending. The transaction is part of the
company’s plan to sell $4 billion in assets by year end.  China
Petroleum (386)  and Chemical Corp., Sinopec Group’s publicly traded
unit, dropped 1.8 percent to HK$5.59 in Hong Kong.  “Apache has been extremely aggressive in monetizing assets
and transforming their portfolio,”  Leo Mariani , an analyst at
RBC Capital Markets in Austin,  Texas , said in a phone interview.
“I don’t think there was much of an expectation that they could
monetize their Egypt holding. Investors thought that the asset
was impaired because of the civil war.”  The operations will add daily output of about 130,000
barrels of oil equivalent to Sinopec Group’s production, the
company said in a statement. That compares with last year’s
daily production of 1.5 million barrels of oil equivalent,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  The deal, expected to close during the fourth quarter, is
Sinopec Group’s biggest since the 2010 purchase of Syncrude
Canada Ltd., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Feeding Demand’  The Sinopec Group “has a philosophy of acquiring assets
overseas to feed China’s energy demand and a minority stake
carries less risk,” James Hubbard, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. said by phone. “It’s good for Apache to
develop closer ties with a company like Sinopec Group.”  Chinese companies have completed 83 overseas oil and gas
purchases worth $100.7 billion in the past five years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion
acquisition of Canada-based Nexen Inc. early this year was
China’s largest overseas acquisition.  The Chinese government encourages energy companies to
acquire overseas resources to meet the country’s growing energy
demand and often asks state-run banks to fund such acquisitions
with cheap loans. China’s crude oil imports may climb 7.3
percent and account for 58 percent of the country’s total
consumption, China National Petroleum Corp. estimated in a
January research report.  Overseas Acquisitions  PetroChina Co., China’s biggest oil and gas producer, plans
to invest $60 billion on overseas acquisitions in the decade to
2020, raising its production abroad to more than 50 percent of
its total, its former chairman  Jiang Jiemin  said in 2011.  PetroChina is in talks with Exxon Mobil Corp. to jointly
develop its West Qurna-1 oilfield in southern Iraq, President
Wang Dongjin said in Hong Kong on August 22. A deal may be
concluded this year, he said.  CNPC, PetroChina’s state-owned parent, produces about 1.65
million barrels of oil a day from projects in Iraq, the company
said last October.  A military coup toppled former Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi in July, sparking protests that have killed at least 1,000
people. Mursi became the first democratically elected president
a year ago after  Hosni Mubarak ’s 29-year reign ended in 2011
following calls for his ouster as the Arab Spring, the term used
to describe protests against autocratic rulers in the Middle
East, swept across the region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  