-- Gold Mining Strike in South Africa to Start Sept. 3 Over Pay
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-08-30T15:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/south-africa-s-biggest-gold-worker-union-to-start-strike.html
The National Union of Mineworkers,
which represents about 64 percent of gold miners in  South
Africa , will start a strike over pay from Sept. 3, the Chamber
of Mines said.  The chamber has made a final offer to boost pay by 6
percent to 6.5 percent for about 142,000 workers covered by wage
talks. The NUM wants starting salaries increased by as much as
60 percent. So far only UASA, which makes up almost 7 percent of
gold miners, has said it’s ready to take the employers’ offer.  All four unions would have to accept the chamber’s offer
according to the terms of the deal, which expired yesterday.
Companies including  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-largest producer,  Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL) , Harmony Gold Mining Co. and
 Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  would be affected by a strike.  “Employers remain open to discussions,” the Johannesburg-based industry body said in an e-mailed statement today.
Companies are making plans “to ensure the continuation of
essential services” in anticipation of a strike.  UASA members are concerned about consequences from  strike
action  including possible job losses and violence, Franz Stehring, head of mining for the union, said in an interview.
“The overwhelming majority of our members accepted the offer
under duress.”  ‘Unlikely to Accept’  Entry-level underground miners earn 5,000 rand ($484) a
month before housing allowances and bonuses, according to the
chamber. The NUM wants this to rise to 8,000 rand. The
Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union, the second-biggest gold-labor group, is demanding an increase to 12,500
rand a month. Solidarity wants 8.3 percent more.  “It’s totally unlikely that we will accept,” Solidarity’s
General Secretary Gideon du Plessis said in a phone interview.
“We will not do the work of any of the striking NUM members and
will not participate in essential services” during the action,
he said. Its members account for more than 2 percent of gold
miners, according to the chamber.  The chamber has received formal notice from NUM of a strike
starting on the night shift.  Gold One International Ltd. (GDO)  said it
has also received a notice of a strike to start Sept. 3 at some
of its South Africa operations. “Management has contingency
plans in place,” the Sydney-based producer said in a statement
issued via the  Johannesburg Stock Exchange .  Workers in the automotive, construction and aviation
industries are already on strike to demand pay increases in
excess of an  inflation rate  of 6.3 percent in July.  ‘Drastic Step’  “The gold industry is at stake and we believe part of
South Africa is at stake,” Harmony Chief Executive Officer
Graham Briggs said at a press conference in Johannesburg
yesterday.  Without a pact, producers have the option of applying for a
certificate of non-resolution and locking out workers. A lockout
would be a “fairly drastic step,” Briggs said.  The six-member FTSE/JSE  Africa  Gold Mining Index has
slumped 44 percent this year. It rose 1.9 percent by 3:34 p.m.
in Johannesburg.  A strike could cost South Africa’s gold industry, the
biggest in Africa, 349 million rand a day in lost revenue,
according to the chamber.  The AMCU, representing about 17 percent of gold miners, is
“still in touch with our constituencies” about how to proceed
with negotiations, President Joseph Mathunjwa said in a phone
interview today before the chamber announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net  