-- South Africa Car Strike Would End With Sweeter Deal, Union Says
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y   a n d   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a
-- 2013-08-30T12:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/south-africa-car-strike-would-end-with-sweeter-deal-union-says.html
South Africa ’s automotive industry
strike could end next week if manufacturers including  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  sweeten their wage offer, the
National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa said.  “We hope that before this weekend ends, employers will
tell us they are willing to agree to those improvements,”
General Secretary Irvin Jim told reporters in Johannesburg
today. “We believe we’re on the brink of coming to an
agreement.”  The strike, which started on Aug. 19, will continue until
improvements are agreed on, Jim said. Manufacturers made an
offer of 10 percent as part of a three-year deal, Numsa’s
Treasurer Mphumzi Maqungo said on Aug. 26. The union’s leaders
had recommended the deal, while members want an increase to the
proposal, Jim said.  The deadlock is costing as much as 700 million rand ($68
million) a day, according to Nico Vermeulen, director of the
National Association of Automobile Manufacturers of South
Africa. The industry accounts for about 7 percent of gross
domestic product, the  Department of Trade and Industry  has said.
Africa’s biggest economy has been plagued by labor strikes that
have spread from the  mining industry  to other parts of the
economy.  Talks Continue  Talks will continue with the aim of trying to resolve the
impasse, Vermeulen said by phone today.  Inflation in South Africa accelerated to 6.3 percent in
July, breaching the central bank’s 6 percent upper limit for the
first time in 15 months.  A separate work stoppage involving about 72,000 workers at
gas stations and dealerships scheduled for Sept. 2 has been
postponed until Sept. 9, Jim said. The planned walkout resulted
from a stalemate on wage negotiations between Numsa, the Fuel
Retailers Association and the Retail Motor Industry
Organization. Employers are offering 6.5 percent while the union
is asking for “double-digit” increases, according to Jim.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net ;
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  