-- Soybeans Drop as Rain Seen Easing U.S. Crop Concern; Corn Gains
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-08-30T19:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/soybeans-drop-as-rain-forecasts-for-midwest-ease-yield-concern.html
Soybeans fell for a second day in
 Chicago , paring a monthly gain, as predictions for rain in the
U.S. Midwest eased concern that heat and dryness will hurt
yields. Corn rose, while wheat declined.  Indiana  and  Ohio  may see an inch (2.5 centimeters) of
precipitation through Sept. 2, while moisture will be less
further west, National Weather Service data show. Much of the
central and northern Midwest, including areas of top producers
Iowa and  Illinois , had less than half of the normal amount of
rain in the past 60 days. Corn and soybean futures rallied to
record highs last year amid the worst drought since the 1930s.  “Forecasts of impending rain are helping the outlook for
soybean yields at the moment, but how beneficial the rains would
be is still open to question,” said Joyce Liu, an investment
analyst at Phillip Futures Pte in  Singapore . “Investors are
still haunted by lingering memories of last year’s drought.”  Soybean futures for delivery in November slid 0.8 percent
to close at $13.575 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board
of Trade. The oilseed gained 13 percent this month, the most
since July 2012, on concern crops that were delayed by wet
weather earlier this year will be damaged by dry weather now or
an early frost in the next few weeks. Trading on the CBOT will
be shut Sept. 2 for the U.S. Labor Day holiday.  Expanding Drought  Corn futures for delivery in December added 0.1 percent to
$4.82 a bushel in Chicago, boosting prices 2.6 percent this
week. The most-active contract rose 0.6 percent this month, the
first gain since January.  Drought expanded in Iowa and Illinois in the most recent
week, the U.S. Drought Monitor said yesterday. Iowa, Illinois
and Indiana are headed for the driest August since 1897,
according to T-Storm Weather. Morgan Stanley, Planalytics Inc.
and  Macquarie Bank  cut forecasts for corn and soybean yields
today.  Parts of the eastern Midwest may get as much as 0.85 inch
of rain in the next two days while some fields in the western
region of the main corn and soybean-growing area may get as much
as 0.5 inch on Sept. 1,  World Weather Inc.  said in a report
today.  The western Midwest may receive as much as 1.5 inches of
rain beginning Sept. 9, which may be too late for some crops
hurt by hot, dry weather this week, the forecaster said.  “It’s going to be cooler and wetter than it has been, and
that has triggered the selling,”  Jim Gerlach , president of A/C
Trading Co. in Fowler, Indiana. “People are going to be
surprised by the damage that has already occurred.”  Wheat futures for delivery in December slipped less than
0.1 percent to $6.54 a bushel, capping a 1.5 percent decline
this month.  The International Grain Council raised its forecast of
world wheat production today to 691 million metric tons, up 0.6
percent from an estimate a month ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net 
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  