-- Soybeans Post Biggest Intraday Loss Since July on Rain Forecasts
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-08-30T06:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/soybeans-trim-biggest-monthly-gain-in-13-months-on-rain-outlook.html
Soybeans had the biggest intraday
loss since July, paring a monthly advance, as predictions for
some rain in the U.S. Midwest eased concern that yields may be
curbed by hot, dry weather.  The contract for delivery in November lost as much as 1.6
percent to $13.46 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade,
matching the drop for most active futures on July 30. Soybeans
traded at $13.51 at 2:44 p.m. in  Singapore  for a 12 percent
increase this month, the most since July 2012.  Rains across central and eastern areas of the Midwest this
weekend will improve moisture slightly for soybean and corn
growth, mainly in  Ohio ,  Indiana  and eastern  Illinois , MDA
Information Systems LLC said in a five-day forecast yesterday.
Showers in northwest Illinois,  Iowa  and  South Dakota  may be too
light to result in  significant improvement , according to the
report. The U.S. is the largest grower of both crops.  “Forecasts of impending rain are helping the outlook for
soybean yields at the moment, but how beneficial the rains would
be is still open to question,” said Joyce Liu, an investment
analyst at Phillip Futures Pte in Singapore. “Investors are
still haunted by lingering memories of last year’s drought.”  The drought threat for U.S. crops is not over, analysts
Bennett Meier and Alan Lee of Morgan Stanley said in a report
dated today in which they cut corn and soybean yield forecasts
to 155.5 bushels per acre and 42.1 bushels per acre. They favor
corn over soybeans as the grain also faces frost risks.  Drought conditions expanded in Iowa and Illinois, damaging
crops in the biggest corn and soybean-growing states, the U.S.
Drought Monitor said yesterday.  Corn for December delivery fell as much as 1 percent to
$4.765 a bushel and traded at $4.77. Wheat for December fell 0.2
percent to $6.5275 a bushel. The contract headed for a 1.7
percent decline this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  