-- SQM Holding Companies Plunge in Santiago on Share Sales
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-08-30T16:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/sqm-holding-companies-plunge-in-santiago-on-share-sales.html
Norte Grande SA (NORTEG)  and  Soc. de
Inversiones Oro Blanco SA , two holding companies controlled by
Chilean fertilizer mogul Julio Ponce, plunged in Santiago after
disclosing plans to sell a combined $467 million in new shares.  Norte Grande fell 14 percent to 2.1 pesos as of 11:25 a.m.,
while Oro Blanco lost 11 percent to 3.11 pesos.  Ponce has said that the capital increases are needed to
satisfy holders of debt that is secured partly by shares of
fertilizer producer  Soc. Quimica y Minera de Chilena SA , known
as SQM. That company’s shares have plunged since late July, when
Russia’s OAO Uralkali, the world’s largest potash producer,
announced the end of a trade agreement with its Belarusan
counterpart Belaruskali that had propped up global prices.  “They need the capital injections to back up the
guarantees after SQM’s slump,” Leonor Skewes, an analyst at
brokerage BICE Inversiones, said in a phone interview from
Santiago.  Norte Grande will call a shareholder vote to sell $177
million in new shares, while Oro Blanco plans to sell $290
million, according to separate filings sent yesterday to the
local securities regulator.  Ponce controls SQM through a cascade of holding companies
that includes Norte Grande and Oro Blanco in addition to  Soc. de
Inversiones Pampa Calichera SA ,  Potasios de Chile SA (POTASIOA)  and
 Nitratos de Chile SA. (NITRATOS)   Ponce said in a filing Aug. 20 that the drop in SQM’s
shares left Norte Grande and its units in a “delicate”
financial position. Norte Grande owns 75 percent of Oro Blanco,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  SQM shares have been the worst performer in the IPSA index
in the last 12 months, with a 54 percent loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  