-- Sterling Said to Seek Buyers for Washington State Lender
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-08-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/sterling-said-to-seek-buyers-for-washington-state-lender.html
  Sterling Financial Corp. (STSA) , the
 Washington  state lender backed by Warburg Pincus LLC and Thomas
H. Lee Partners LP, is seeking takeover bids from other banks,
said two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  At least two potential buyers held talks with Sterling in
recent weeks, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the discussions were confidential.  Sterling has a market value of about $1.5 billion, which
would rank among the biggest of the more than 100 bank takeover
deals announced this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Suitors for U.S. lenders have been discouraged by new
costs imposed under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, and by the fate of
 M&T Bank Corp. (MTB) ’s year-old bid for Hudson City Bancorp, which was
delayed by added scrutiny from regulators.  Warburg Pincus and Thomas H. Lee Partners each held more
than 20 percent of the Spokane-based bank’s  common stock  as of
Jan. 31, according to the company. Sterling Chief Financial
Officer Patrick J. Rusnak declined to comment.  U.S. bank takeovers announced this year total $7.93
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The largest
was  PacWest Bancorp (PACW) ’s $2.2 billion offer last month for
 CapitalSource Inc. (CSE)  The Hudson City takeover, which is still
pending, originally was valued at about $3.7 billion when
announced on Aug. 27, 2012.  Sterling sold stakes in 2010 to New York-based Warburg and
Boston’s Thomas H. Lee as three straight annual losses eroded
capital. It also took $303 million from the U.S. bank bailout
fund, which was repaid a year ago through a public stock
offering.  The firm was profitable for the past two fiscal years and
the shares have advanced about 16 percent in 2013 to $24.20.  Assets stood at $9.9 billion as of midyear with deposits of
$6.6 billion from 175 branches in Washington, Oregon,  Idaho  and
California. It’s run by Greg Seibly, the president and chief
executive officer, who joined in late 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  