-- Stochastics Back U.S. Bond Rally, RBS Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-08-30T16:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/stochastics-back-u-s-bond-rally-rbs-says-technical-analysis.html
Treasury 30-year bond momentum “is
turning bullish” and the debt may be poised to pare the worst
losses since 2009, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, citing technical analysis.  Weekly slow stochastics, a measure used to predict a
security’s movement based on how close its price is to its
highest or lowest levels, are signaling stronger sentiment for
the long bond after indicating weakness since May, according to
William O’Donnell and John Briggs, interest-rate strategists in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , at the bank’s RBS Securities unit.  “The price momentum of the selloff has been losing thrust
in recent weeks as the market has become oversold,” said
O’Donnell, head U.S. government-bond strategist at RBS, one of
21 primary dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve. “We may
be looking at the end of bearishness and a phase of lower
rates.”  Yields on 30-year bonds  fell  two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.69 percent in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
note traded at 2.75 percent.  Thirty-year debt has lost 12.5 percent this year, the worst
since a 26 percent drop in 2009, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. Benchmark 10-year notes have lost 6.8
percent, the most since a 9.7 percent drop in 2009.  A close below 2.74 percent on the 10-year yield would
signal a breakout of a bearish trend that may send the benchmark
yield to as low as 2.43 percent, O’Donnell said.  Debate about when Fed policy makers will taper $85 billion
in monthly bond buying has roiled financial markets around the
world during the past three months and sparked a selloff in
fixed-income assets.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  