-- Structured Notes August Sales Slump for Worst Month in 11 Years
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-08-30T08:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/structured-notes-august-sales-slump-for-worst-month-in-11-years.html
Sales of structured notes in Europe
and Asia suffered their worst month in 11 years in August amid
investor concern the era of record low interest rates is coming
to an end.  Banks sold $2.38 billion of structured notes through Aug.
29, the least for any month since February 2002, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, which exclude notes where the amount
of principal returned can vary. The figure takes the total so
far this year to $50.3 billion compared with $55.8 billion in
the same period of 2012, the data show.  “Investors are hesitant because they know all the
subsidized liquidity will eventually be drained from the system,
and they are nervous about the implications, especially the
potential for rising rates,” said Nordine Farsi, head of
structured credit trading at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in
London. “They are more cautious on fixed income at the moment,
including credit-linked notes.”  Demand for structured notes in Europe and Asia started
slowing in June after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled the
central bank may reduce stimulus measures if the U.S. economy
continued to improve. The lack of clarity around the Fed’s
timetable for tapering has damped sales of longer-dated, fixed-rate notes, said Annemarie Ganatra, the global head of medium-term and structured notes at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in London.  Sales of notes tied to the creditworthiness of companies
and countries fell to $688 million in August, the lowest since
January 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks typically issue fewer structured notes in July and
August because of the summer holidays, said Charles Kermisch, a
director of European credit and liquidity operations at Credit
Suisse Group AG in London. The seasonal trend was exacerbated
this year because banks were able to obtain cheap funds from
central banks, reducing the amount they’re willing to pay buyers
of structured notes, he said, which typically results in lower
yields for credit-linked notes, making them even less
attractive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in  London  at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  