-- Swiss Authorities Start Probe Into Steinmetz-Linked Company
-- B y   A n d y   H o f f m a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-08-30T15:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/swiss-authorities-start-probe-into-steinmetz-linked-company.html
Geneva’s public prosecutor has
opened a probe of a company linked to Beny Steinmetz,  Israel ’s
richest person, following a request from the government of
 Guinea  where a company he controls owns an iron ore deposit.  “Geneva’s public prosecutor opened a case, following a
request of mutual legal assistance sent by the Republic of
Guinea,” Henri Della Casa, a spokesman for the prosecutor’s
office, said today in an e-mailed statement. “Investigations
are ongoing. At this stage, the investigation secrecy prohibits
providing other indications.”  The Swiss action follows a U.S. grand jury probe that
started in April into claims of bribes paid for mining rights in
Guinea. The West African nation is reviewing mining licenses
including the Simandou deposit, once described as the world’s
largest untapped deposit of  iron ore , owned in a joint venture
by BSG Resources Ltd. and  Brazil ’s Vale SA.  Albert Damantang Camara, a spokesman for the government of
Guinea, said he couldn’t immediately comment when contacted by
phone today. Ian Middleton, a spokesman for BSGR in London, also
couldn’t immediately comment.  Onyx Financial Advisors U.K., a company linked to
Steinmetz, yesterday “provided the Swiss authorities with
information following a request to  Switzerland  by the Government
of Guinea,” according to an e-mailed statement from Onyx
provided by an external communications firm working for BSGR
yesterday.  About 20 Swiss police officers visited the Geneva offices
of Onyx early yesterday morning, staying for several hours and
removing documents from a basement, Reuters reported, citing an
unidentified security guard.  Frederic Cilins, 50, a French citizen with ties to BSGR,
has said he’s innocent of charges he interfered with the grand
jury investigation. He said he was arrested after trying to stop
an extortion attempt by the government’s main witness.  Onyx Financial is based in  London  and has offices in
Geneva, Amsterdam, Johannesburg and  Rome , according to its
 website . Dag Cramer is chief executive officer of Onyx Financial
Advisers U.K. and also a director of BSGR, according to its
 website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  