-- Carney Says He’s Alert to Bubble Danger for House Prices
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-08-30T09:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/u-k-house-prices-rise-as-recovery-boosts-confidence.html
Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney 
said policy makers will act if signs of a property bubble emerge
as new data points to continuing strength in the housing market.  “We are watching it closely and we will as appropriate
make our views known in terms of the degree of this risk and the
potential action that should be taken to address it,” Carney
said in an interview with the  Daily Mail  published today.  Nationwide Building Society  said  home prices  rose 0.6
percent this month and the BOE’s commitment to maintain  record-low interest rates  may be helping to support demand. Carney
signaled that any response from the central bank to housing
would be through its Financial Policy Committee, set up to
monitor risks to the financial system, rather than through
tighter monetary policy.  “We have the responsibility to assess emerging
vulnerabilities in the economy such as housing, make those
assessments and recommend action,” Carney said. “ Interest
rates  are principally an instrument of monetary policy for
achieving the inflation outcome and there are other tools that
address risks.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar and traded
at $1.5497 at 10:07 a.m. in  London .  The housing market is also being boosted by the
government’s Help to Buy program, which allows people to buy a
home with a deposit as little 5 percent of the value of the
property. Carney indicated there is a risk of too much stimulus
and that it might be a “challenging task” to curb a bubble.  ‘Other Direction’  “It would be difficult to achieve if there were a host of
government policies or other events that are pushing in the
other direction,” the governor said.  The Nationwide report showed that  house prices  rose 3.5
percent in August from a year ago to an average 170,514 pounds
($264,600). Separate data showed  consumer sentiment  climbed to
the highest in almost four years this month and Britons became
more inclined to spend after  economic growth  accelerated in the
second quarter.  The BOE said today that  mortgage approvals  rose to 60,624
in July, the highest since March 2008.  There are “signs that the U.K. economy is finally
gathering momentum,” said  Robert Gardner , chief economist at
Nationwide. The BOE’s guidance on interest rates “may also help
support confidence amongst potential buyers.”  Forward Guidance  Carney joined the BOE in July and introduced guidance this
month, linking policy to the jobless rate, currently at 7.8
percent. The central bank has said it won’t consider raising its
benchmark until  unemployment  falls to 7 percent, which it
doesn’t see happening until the end of 2016.  Carney said Aug. 28 he wants to give households and
businesses confidence that “interest rates won’t go up until
jobs, incomes and spending are recovering at a sustainable
pace.”  The same day, he downplayed concern that government
programs and a prolonged period of low interest rates mean “the
seeds are being sown for a new cycle in the housing market.”  The improvements in the  property market  in the past year
“must be kept in perspective,” Carney said. “Mortgage
approvals are currently running at only a little more than half,
and transactions a little more than two-thirds, of pre-crisis
levels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  