-- U.S. Intelligence on Syria Stops Short of Assad’s Role
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-08-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/u-s-intelligence-on-syria-stops-short-of-assad-s-role.html
A U.S. intelligence report laying
out evidence that  Syria ’s regime used chemical weapons to kill
more than 1,400 people doesn’t show that President Bashar al-Assad himself ordered the attack.  Left unaddressed in the four-page, unclassified version of
the Obama administration’s assessment, released yesterday, is
any discussion of who in the Syrian government gave the order to
use the weapons and whether a rogue element of the regime could
have been responsible.  “The thing that’s unproven in the public document is this
chain-of-command issue,” said Brian Katulis, a senior fellow at
the Center for American Progress in Washington who has worked in
the  Middle East . “They either can’t address it publicly or they
don’t have the information.”  Any such shortcoming in U.S. intelligence invites criticism
a decade after President  George W. Bush  made a case for invading
 Iraq  based on false claims that Iraqi dictator  Saddam Hussein 
possessed chemical and biological weapons.  “Most people wouldn’t find this as a smoking gun and the
sharpest argument for military action,” Katulis said yesterday
in an interview. “They built as strong a public case as I think
they can make. They’re convinced they’re not going to win
everybody over.”  The report assesses “with high confidence” that the
Syrian government conducted a chemical weapons attack in a
Damascus suburb on Aug. 21 that killed 1,429 people, including
at least 426 children.  U.K. Estimate  That estimate differed from a U.K. government assessment
issued Aug. 29 that said the overall death toll was “at least
350 fatalities.”  An Obama administration official who asked not to be
identified discussing intelligence matters told reporters
yesterday that Assad is responsible for the use of chemical
weapons by his regime, regardless of whether he gave a specific
order.  Secretary of State  John Kerry , discussing what he called
“the indiscriminate, inconceivable horror of chemical
weapons,” also blamed the Syrian president. “This is what
Assad did to his own people,” he told reporters at the State
Department yesterday.  Paul Pillar , a former national intelligence officer for the
Near East and  South Asia , said the report’s failure to link the
attack directly to Assad or senior Syrian commanders may
handicap the White House in making the case for a military
strike.  What Message?  “What sort of message does that really send to Bashar
Assad or others in that administration if, in fact, they did not
decide to use chemical weapons?” Pillar, a nonresident senior
fellow at  Georgetown University ’s Center for Security Studies in
Washington, said in an interview. “I don’t think you can wash
that issue away by saying the guy at the top is in charge of
everything.”  Three U.S. officials familiar with the intelligence on the
attack, who asked not to be identified, said it’s difficult to
confirm whether Assad or a member of his inner circle ordered
the attack, or whether some army officer such as Assad’s brother
Maher, who commands the elite 4th Armored Division, might have
launched it.  The unclassified report does seek to provide -- without
evidence -- an answer to why the Syrian regime would use
chemical weapons that could trigger an international response at
a time when Assad’s forces have made headway with the help of
fighters from  Iran  and Hezbollah.  Syria’s Decision  “We assess that the Syrian regime has used chemical
weapons over the last year primarily to gain the upper hand or
break a stalemate in areas where it has struggled to seize and
hold strategically valuable territory,” the report said.  The regime’s “frustration with its inability to secure
large portions of Damascus may have contributed to its decision
to use chemical weapons on August 21,” it said.  Pillar cautioned that any assessment in an unclassified
report amounts to “looking at a fogged-over window” because of
all the additional information the U.S. may have but can’t
disclose without compromising sources and methods of
intelligence-gathering.  Even so, he said, if there were any evidence of an order
from Assad or senior commanders “we would have seen some
indication of that reflected in the unclassified document.”  According to the report, in the three days leading up to
the attack, the U.S. obtained “human, signals and geospatial
intelligence that reveal regime activities that we assess were
associated with preparations for a chemical-weapons attack.”  ‘Regime Element’  Syrian chemical-weapons personnel were operating in the
Damascus suburb of Adra from Aug. 18 to 21 “near an area that
the regime uses to mix chemical weapons, including sarin,” the
report said.  A Syrian “regime element” prepared for a chemical attack
on Aug. 21, including by using gas masks, it said.  The report didn’t say whether U.S. officials were aware of
the preparations in the days leading up to the attack or whether
they tried to do anything about it.  As additional evidence of the Syrian regime’s complicity,
the report said the U.S. intercepted communications involving a
senior Syrian official “who confirmed that chemical weapons
were used by the regime on August 21 and was concerned” that a
United Nations team investigating the attack would obtain
evidence.  The U.S. also has intelligence showing that Syrian
chemical-weapons personnel were ordered to cease operations that
afternoon, the report said.  Launch Area  Discounting the possibility of an attack waged by the
Syrian opposition seeking to overthrow Assad, Kerry said
yesterday the chemical weapons were launched from territory
controlled by the regime and targeted areas that were controlled
by the opposition or contested by both sides. The report said
“satellite detections” corroborate that assertion.  A scenario in which the “opposition executed the attack on
Aug. 21 is highly unlikely,” according to the report.  “The case is very solid,” said  Michael O’Hanlon , a
defense analyst at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington.  Knowing where the rockets were launched, who prepared the
attack and who suffered from it, and intercepts among Assad’s
forces about wearing gas masks makes the report “a very, very
compelling case,” he said by e-mail.  Although the report doesn’t offer proof that Assad ordered
the attack, O’Hanlon said a punitive strike wouldn’t be designed
to kill the Syrian leader “so it may not matter that much.”  ‘Narrow Concern’  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday that any military
action would stop short of an “open-ended commitment” with
U.S. troops on the ground. He said it would be designed to
“meet the narrow concern around chemical weapons, understanding
that there’s not going to be a solely military solution to the
underlying conflict and tragedy that’s taking place in Syria.”  The administration official who briefed reporters yesterday
acknowledged that the U.S. lacks physiological evidence of the
chemical weapons attack, saying the collection of such samples
would require more time.  UN inspectors are gathering that evidence and are scheduled
to leave Syria today. Their report may take weeks to prepare
because of the time required to complete laboratory work,
according to a UN official who wasn’t authorized to comment and
asked not to be identified.  Video Evidence  Instead, the U.S. report relied partly on social media as
evidence, citing 100 videos that show “large numbers of bodies
exhibiting physical signs consistent with, but not unique to,
nerve agent exposure.”  “We assess the Syrian opposition does not have the
capability to fabricate all of the videos, physical symptoms
verified by medical personnel” and other information about the
attack, the report said.  Kerry said some of the intelligence gathered by the U.S.
remains classified and can only be shared with members of
Congress.  “Our intelligence community has carefully reviewed and re-reviewed information regarding this attack,” Kerry said. “And
I will tell you it has done so more than mindful of the Iraq
experience.  We will not repeat that moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  