-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Increase as Obama Weighs Syria Action
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-08-30T19:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/u-s-company-credit-swaps-increase-as-obama-weighs-syria-action.html
The cost to protect against losses
on corporate bonds is heading for the second-biggest weekly gain
this month.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 1.5
basis points to a mid-price of 83.9 basis points as of 2:33 p.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure, which typically gains as investor confidence
deteriorates, is poised to increase 5.3 this week, the biggest
jump since the period ended Aug. 16. President Barack Obama and
allies of the U.S. are weighing military action against  Syria  in
response to an alleged chemical weapons attack near Damascus
last week.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Consumer confidence  dropped in August from a six-year high
as  interest rates  rose and tensions in the  Middle East 
intensified. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final
index of consumer sentiment for this month fell to 82.1, a four-month low, from 85.1 in July.  President  Barack Obama  said in brief remarks at the White
House today that the use of chemical weapons is a direct threat
to U.S. and global security. He added that he hasn’t made a
final decision on his response, and that “in no event” will it
involve U.S. troops on the ground in Syria.  Junk Swaps  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, rose 5.3 basis points to 406.2, up from 387.8 last week,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries fell 0.3 basis point to 130.1,
Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt was unchanged at 587.2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  