-- N Korea Pulls Invitation to U.S. Envoy on Jailed American
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-08-30T15:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/u-s-envoy-to-visit-north-korea-to-push-for-release-of-american.html
North Korea withdrew an invitation
to a U.S. envoy who was set to arrive today seeking the release
of an American sentenced to 15 years’ hard labor for alleged
hostile acts against the totalitarian regime of Kim Jong Un.  The visit today by Robert King, the State Department’s
special envoy on North Korean human rights, was aimed at
bringing back Kenneth Bae, a tour operator and Christian
missionary who was arrested in a northeastern North Korean city
in November.  “We are surprised and disappointed by North Korea’s
decision,” State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said in an
e-mailed statement. “We remain gravely concerned about Mr.
Bae’s health and we continue to urge” North Korean authorities
“to grant Mr. Bae special amnesty and immediate release on
humanitarian grounds.”  The U.S. has “sought clarification” about North Korea’s
action and “made every effort” to proceed with King’s visit or
to reschedule it, she said.  King’s trip would have been the first public visit to North
Korea by a U.S. official in more than two years. The two
countries remain in a deadlock over ways to restart
multinational talks on the North’s nuclear arms programs.  ‘Symbolic Step’  “The U.S. keeps asking for some sign of Pyongyang’s
sincerity and releasing Bae would be a small but useful symbolic
step in the right direction,” Ralph Cossa, president of the
Hawaii-based Pacific Forum CSIS research institute, said in an
e-mail before North Korea pulled its invitation.  King previously traveled to Pyongyang in May 2011 to bring
back another American detained there, a trip followed by talks
between the two countries.  Yesterday, North Korea accused the U.S. of threatening a
nuclear attack against the country by flying B-52 bombers during
joint military drills with South Korea this month.  Bombers taking part in the Aug. 19-30 exercises posed a
“brazen” nuclear threat, North Korea’s National Defense
Commission said in a statement. U.S. Forces Korea declined to
say whether B-52s are joining the drills.  “Our revolutionary forces are sharply observing every move
of the nuclear bombing squad through our cross hairs,” the
commission said via the official Korean Central News Agency.  About 28,500 U.S. troops are stationed in South Korea as a
deterrent against North Korea, a legacy of the 1950-1953 war
that ended without a peace treaty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  