-- U.S. Affirms Philippine Alliance as Aquino Cancels China Visit
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2013-08-30T08:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/u-s-affirms-philippine-alliance-as-aquino-cancels-china-visit.html
Bolstering U.S. troops in the
 Philippines  would help that country modernize its military, U.S.
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said, as the Southeast Asian
nation seeks to deter  China  from taking control of disputed
territory.  Talks on increasing the U.S. troops on rotation in the
Philippines reflect a “deep and unbreakable alliance,” Hagel
said today in  Manila  at a joint briefing with his Philippine
counterpart Voltaire Gazmin. He affirmed a mutual defense treaty
between the two countries, whose soldiers fought side by side
during World War II.  Hagel’s visit comes amid new tensions between the former
U.S. colony and China, with President  Benigno Aquino  canceling
his planned one-day trip to Nanning next week at China’s
request. Aquino is seeking to boost ties with the U.S. and  Japan 
at a time China is increasing its military and economic presence
in the region and countries are vying for oil, gas and fishing
resources in disputed  South China Sea  waters.  The stopover by Hagel “underscores how Washington
continues to treat freedom of navigation in the South China Sea
as a national interest, and how it is willing to deepen its
coordination with major allies such as the Philippines to check
further Chinese territorial assertiveness,” Richard Javad
Heydarian, a political science lecturer at the Ateneo de Manila
University, said by phone.  The Philippines and U.S. held the first round of talks on
boosting American troop levels earlier this month. Discussions
will resume later today at the Pentagon in Washington, the
Philippine Foreign Affairs and Defense departments said in a
statement yesterday.  Modern Military  “We are using a new model of military-to-military
cooperation befitting two great allies and friends,” Hagel said
after meeting with Aquino earlier today. “The  United States  has
a great deal of experience in building a modern military and we
would like to share what we’ve learned with our Filipino
allies,” he said.  The Chinese government understands the need to get along
with its neighbors for peace and its own economic development,
Hagel said when asked whether an increased U.S. presence could
provoke China. The region can’t achieve growth and development
“without stability, without security.” Hagel added that the
U.S. wants South China Sea disputes to be “resolved peacefully
and without coercion.”  The Philippines is referring its spat with China to the
United Nations for arbitration while looking for more military
support from the U.S., the official Xinhua news agency said in a
 commentary  yesterday. “The dual tactics have shown Manila’s
deliberate attempt to seek by all means to occupy islands and
reefs owned by other countries in the South China Sea, and such
tactics are doomed to fail,” it said.  The Philippines asked the  United Nations  in January to rule
on its dispute with China, which moved to take control of the
Scarborough Shoal a year after a standoff between Philippine and
Chinese ships. The shoal is about three times closer to the
Philippines than China, the Philippines said in an arbitration
note.  Subic Bay  The Philippines may give the U.S. access to military bases,
including Subic Bay in Zambales province north of the capital,
Gazmin said at the briefing today with Hagel. “Our alliance
remains relevant today as it was before,” he said.  U.S. naval forces occupied Subic Bay before they were
forced to leave after the Philippine Senate ended their lease
contracts in 1991. The Senate later ratified a visiting forces
agreement allowing temporary visits by U.S. forces for war
games.  Philippine military Chief of Staff General Emmanuel
Bautista and his U.S. counterpart General Martin Dempsey signed
a joint statement in  Washington  D.C. on Aug. 22 affirming the
nations’ commitment to the mutual defense treaty, according to a
statement from the Philippine Armed Forces last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  