-- U.S. Sells Sugar at Loss to Ethanol Maker to Ease Surplus
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-08-30T21:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/u-s-sells-sugar-at-loss-to-ethanol-maker-to-ease-surplus.html
The  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
sold 7,118 short tons of beet sugar to an ethanol producer at a
loss of $2.7 million as part of a program to reduce a domestic
surplus of the sweetener and stave off government subsidies.  The sugar was purchased by the USDA’s Commodity Credit
Corp. for $3.6 million and then sold it for about $900,000 to
Front Range Energy LLC, a Windsor, Colorado, producer, the
department said today. The sweetener, for which the USDA sought 
25.2 cents a pound, was purchased for 6 cents. The transaction was
the first under the Feedstock Flexibility Program created in
2008.  “It’s a pretty weak result,” Tom Earley, an economist
with  Agralytica , a food and agriculture consulting firm in
Alexandria,  Virginia , said in a telephone interview. “It’s
clear that, given lower corn prices and lower ethanol prices,
that the amount that ethanol producers are willing to pay is
quite low.”  A plunge in sugar prices prompted the USDA to seek ways to
dispose of surplus sweetener used as collateral for government
loans. Biofuel producers including  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the
third-biggest in the U.S., and  Green Plains Renewable Energy
Inc. (GPRE) , the fourth-largest, decided not to bid. Most U.S. ethanol
plants are geared to using corn, the biggest domestic crop, and
the price of the grain has tumbled this year.  Limited Participation  “Transportation, volume of sugar feedstock and other
concerns appear to have limited bioenergy company
participation,” the Agriculture Department said in its
statement. “The USDA expects greater participation in FFP as
these concerns are addressed.”  According to the  Renewable Fuels Association , Front Range
Energy operates one corn ethanol plant with a capacity of  40
million gallons  a year. A phone call and e-mail to the company
were not returned.  Bids were due Aug. 28 for buyers and sellers of sugar under
the program, which is meant to dispose of surplus supplies used
as collateral for government loans. The effort to decrease this
year’s record sugar surplus may help the government avoid
forfeitures on raw-sugar loans that totaled $81.53 million
earlier this week.  “The subsidies that the USDA has to pay to make it happen
are not going to be much different than what the cost of
forfeitures would be” without the program, Earley, the
economist, said.  Cheap Corn  Many ethanol producers expecting a record corn crop don’t
see sugar as a competitive product, Todd Becker, chief executive
officer of Omaha, Nebraska-based Green Plains, said earlier this
week.  Last year’s drought drove corn futures to a record $8.49 a
bushel. Farmers responded by planting what’s expected to be a
record crop of 13.76 million bushels this year. That’s pushed
the price of the grain down 40 percent in the past year to $4.82
at today’s close in  Chicago .  Record domestic sugar output in the current season and
increasing imports, especially from  Mexico , pushed U.S. prices
in July to 18.7 cents a pound, the lowest since at least 2008
and below the loan-default level, or about 21 cents.  Domestic sugar on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  closed today
at 21.23 cents, while world prices closed at 16.34 cents a
pound. The U.S., which for decades has artificially raised
market prices by limiting imports under international
agreements, already is using export credits to reduce the
surplus.  Ethanol is blended with gasoline as part of a 2007 U.S.
energy law, known as the Renewable Fuels Standard, which calls
for refiners to use 13.8 billion gallons of the fuel this year
and 14.4 billion in 2014. Ethanol is typically sold in a
combination known as E-10, with 10 percent of the mix made up of
the biofuel and the rest gasoline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  