-- Huawei Official Tell U.S. Congress Leader to ‘Stow It’
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-08-30T17:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/huawei-official-tell-u-s-congress-leader-to-stow-it-.html
A Huawei Technologies Co. spokesman
said today that the chairman of the U.S. House Intelligence
Committee should “stow it” because he can’t prove the Chinese
company’s products pose security risks.  The committee effectively blacklisted devices made by
Huawei and  ZTE Corp. (000063) , both based in Shenzhen, after warning in
an October 2012 report that the companies’ U.S. expansion might
allow  China  to disrupt power grids or financial networks.  William Plummer , Huawei’s vice president for external
affairs in the U.S., accused the committee and its chairman,
Representative Mike Rogers, of misinterpreting Chinese law in
the report. The country’s regulations might force Huawei and ZTE
to cooperate with any request to use their systems for malicious
purposes, according to the document.  Rogers, a Michigan Republican, should release any proof he
has of inappropriate activity by Huawei, Plummer said in an e-mail. “Since he can’t -- because he has squat -- he should stow
it.”  Susan Phalen, a spokeswoman for the House committee,
declined to comment on Plummer’s statements.  Huawei had advised the committee beforehand that the
interpretation of the law was inaccurate, Plummer said.  Huawei’s products are no more likely to present
cybersecurity risks than any other telecommunications equipment,
given the global supply chain involved in making such goods, he
said.  His comments followed several Bloomberg News stories,
including one today, highlighting the committee’s findings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  