-- Verizon-Vodafone Advisers Face Sleepless Holiday Weekend
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-08-30T23:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/verizon-vodafone-advisers-face-sleepless-holiday-weekend.html
Advisers to  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  won’t be getting much rest this
Labor Day weekend as they push to put the finishing touches on
the largest deal in more than a decade.  An agreement that would see Verizon buy Vodafone out of
their U.S. wireless venture for as much as $130 billion could be
announced as soon as Sept. 2, according to people with knowledge
of the plans, who asked not to be identified discussing
confidential deliberations. Last-minute details are being worked
out by banks including UBS AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Completing a  transaction  that would rival the ill-fated
merger of AOL and Time Warner Inc. in size will be far from
simple, involving payment in cash and shares likely staggered
over a number of years, according to another person familiar
with the talks. The companies also have to pull off a balancing
act to minimize Vodafone’s tax liability while avoiding a
public-relations fracas for paying too little.  Vodafone is structured around several units globally. It
could sell its U.S.-domiciled division, which owns the shares in
 Verizon Wireless , via its Luxembourg business rather than
disposing of the stake directly,  New York  corporate-tax adviser
 Robert Willens  said. That would leave it only liable for U.S.
taxes on the proceeds from a sale of the unit’s non-Verizon
Wireless assets, a bill of about $3.5 billion to $4 billion,
Willens estimated.  ‘Tax Bite’  “No one anywhere wants to pay $3.5 billion in taxes,”
Willens, who is not involved in the transaction, said this week.
“As a political or public relations matter, it’s not a bad
thing to be able to say it’s not a tax-free transaction.”  Verizon believed it could structure a deal so Vodafone
would only pay about $5 billion in taxes, a person familiar with
the New York-based company’s thinking said last quarter.  Since then, Vodafone’s U.S. unit’s “other European assets’
value fortuitously have gone down, so the tax bite is very much
more manageable,” Willens said.  An automatic exemption under U.K. law means Newbury,
England-based Vodafone would owe no taxes at home.  Another sticking point may relate to the future of deals
between the two companies for enterprise customers, said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  London . The
companies have an agreement for providing service to those
clients that could cut into Vodafone’s revenue if it were
dissolved, she said.  Mapping Pitfalls  “If Verizon yanks all of that business, it’s material” to
Vodafone’s future performance, and thus to its attractiveness to
potential acquirers like AT&T Inc., she said.  The pitfalls of the final negotiations have already been
well-mapped thanks to years of discussions between Vodafone and
Verizon on how to resolve their relationship. Options have
ranged from a buyout of the Verizon Wireless venture to an
outright merger of its owners, people familiar with the matter
said in March.  Even without joint custody of their venture, the companies
will remain closely linked. Bienenstock said Vodafone is likely
to get half of the purchase price in Verizon shares.  To gather the cash for the deal, Verizon is in talks with
banks for about  $60 billion  in financing, people familiar with
the matter said this week. Companies including Apple Inc. and
Comcast Corp. have gone to the credit markets to benefit from
some of the lowest borrowing costs on record.  Borrowing costs for companies rated “A” like Verizon have
fallen by 1.2 percentage points in the past two years to 1.8
percent, near a record low 1.4 percent reached in May, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Lost Weekend  For Verizon, full control of the largest U.S. wireless
carrier will mean access to $21.8 billion in operating income to
boost its network as it faces aggressive competition from Sprint
Corp.  Japan ’s Softbank Corp. bought Sprint this year and founder
Masoyashi Son has pledged to make the third-biggest U.S.
wireless carrier a stronger rival.  Missing out on the beach during the traditional last
weekend of summer break will be well-worth the advisers’ time.
Bankers may earn more than $240 million in fees, according to
Freeman & Co. estimates. And the success of the deal may be a
sign of renewed confidence among chief executive officers and
boards, meaning more is on the way.  Deals Rebound  While the year’s been sluggish for M&A, dealmakers have had
a busy summer thanks to transactions like the $30 billion merger
of Publicis SA and Omnicom Group Inc. and America Movil SAB’s
attempt to take over Royal KPN NV. The communications sector has
seen $351 billion in announced transactions so far, the highest
level since 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The deals market has definitely turned a corner,” said
Robert Rakison, co-chair of the private equity group at law firm
McGuireWoods LLP. “The Vodafone-Verizon deal is happening
because the market was already in recovery. It is a symptom of a
strengthening market -- not the cause.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  