-- Vestas New CEO Will Focus on Return to Profit, Foreign Growth
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-08-30T13:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/vestas-new-ceo-will-focus-on-return-to-profit-foreign-growth.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the Danish
turbine maker that’s been unprofitable for two years, will focus
on completing a restructuring program to restore earnings,
incoming chief executive officer Anders Runevad said.  Runevad also plans to expand the company’s foreign business
and continue to invest in offshore turbine technology, he said
today in a phone interview. The former Ericsson AB executive
will take over on Sept. 1 after Ditlev Engel was fired Aug. 21.  After eight straight quarterly losses, Vestas has given
itself just over four months to finish a turnaround plan seeking
to lower fixed costs by 400 million euros ($530 million),
including a 30 percent cut in staff to 16,000.  Europe ’s turbine
makers including Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA are recovering
after overcapacity and growing competition eroded profits.  “The challenge is very clearly profitability,” Runevad
said. “Vestas has geographical spread and market leadership
strengths, which is something to leverage on and continue to
build on the international presence.”  Vestas is developing an 8-megawatt sea-based turbine, the
V164 model, as European nations including  Germany  and the U.K.
add offshore machines to curb emissions and secure supplies.  Runevad declined to comment on discussions with potential
partners for its offshore wind business, including  Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  Uffe Vinther-Schou, senior vice president
at Vestas Offshore, said yesterday the company is seeking an
offshore partner “so we can play ball with the likes of
Siemens, Samsung, Mitsubishi.”  Execute Turnaround  Runevad leaves his position as president of region west and
central Europe at Ericsson. Chief Financial Officer Marika
Fredriksson is in charge of Aarhus-based Vestas until Runevad
assumes control.  “If I look at the opportunities, overall I’m confident
that renewable energy is the future and we need to change our
mix,” Runevad said. “The first priority is definitely that we
continue to execute on the turnaround plan announced. There are
a lot of positive signs but also there’s a lot left to be
done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  