-- Wal-Mart to Lend $50 Million to Improve Bangladesh Safety
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-08-30T13:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/wal-mart-to-lend-50-million-to-improve-bangladesh-safety.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  said it is
lending $50 million to Bangladesh factory owners, joining global
retailers in a push for safer plants in the country after the
April collapse of a garment complex killed more than 1,000.  The loan is part of a combined amount of more than $100
million that a group of North American retailers, including Wal-Mart and Target Corp., pledged in a  pact  announced in July.  Called the Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety, the group
has said it will set safety standards by October and refuse to
buy from factories deemed unsafe. The initiatives followed the
collapse of the eight-story Rana Plaza factory complex, the
worst industrial accident in the nation’s history.  Surging wages and inflation in  China  have prompted
retailers to shift some production to other nations such as
Bangladesh. In response, a $19 billion manufacturing industry
has sprung up in the South Asian country, marred by factories
operated in buildings with poor electrical wiring, an
insufficient number of exits and little fire-fighting equipment.  The 20 retailers in the North American safety pact include
Gap Inc., J.C. Penney Co., Costco Wholesale Corp. and Sears
Holdings Corp. Li & Fung Ltd., the global outsourcer that
supplies to Wal-Mart, will serve in an advisory capacity.  A separate accord signed by  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and Inditex
SA,  Europe ’s two largest clothing retailers, pledged at least
$60 million over five years to monitor safety in Bangladesh
plants. The Europe plan obligates companies to ensure their
factories have the capital to make necessary repairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in  New York  at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  