-- Twitter General Counsel Leaves Before Potential IPO
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-08-30T20:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/twitter-general-counsel-leaves-before-potential-ipo.html
Twitter Inc.’s top lawyer, Alexander Macgillivray, is leaving the social website as it gears up for a
potential initial public offering.  Macgillivray, who was poached from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in 2009,
will continue to serve as an adviser as he explores
opportunities outside of San Francisco-based Twitter, he said in
a blog  post . Vijaya Gadde, a former lawyer for  Wilson Sonsini
Goodrich & Rosati , is replacing him as general counsel, Jim Prosser, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Twitter, wrote in
an e-mailed statement.  Twitter is losing one of its most experienced and visible
senior managers as it takes steps toward a market debut.
Macgillivray championed the free speech of Twitter’s users as
the site became a tool of protest in the  Middle East  and
elsewhere, and opposed measures by U.S. regulators and lawmakers
to censor citizens.  “I am proud to have worked with colleagues who defend and
respect the user’s voice; who push freedom of expression and
transparency; and who innovate and lead,” Macgillivray wrote on
his blog.  Gadde, who joined Twitter as legal director last year, will
draw on her many years of experience handling IPOs, mergers and
corporate governance, said Larry Sonsini, chairman of Gadde’s
former employer and a well-known Silicon Valley lawyer.  “She’s got great skills because her position with us in
the firm was pretty multifaceted in representing enterprises,
particularly in the tech space,” Sonsini, whose firm represents
Twitter, said in an interview.  IPO Preparations  While Twitter Chief Executive Officer  Dick Costolo  has said
that management isn’t concentrating on an IPO, the company is
widely predicted to hold a share sale before long to help it
bankroll expansion, and give some early investors a way to
realize financial gains on their holdings.  Twitter bolstered its management team this week by hiring
Nathan Hubbard, the former head of  Live Nation Entertainment
Inc. (LYV) ’s Ticketmaster division, as its first commerce chief.
Earlier this year, Twitter hired former Morgan Stanley executive
Cynthia Gaylor to run corporate development.  Gadde is one of few women to become a top lawyer at a large
technology firm, Sonsini said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  