-- Won Posts Monthly Gain in Asia’s Best Performance; Bonds Rise
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-08-30T06:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/won-set-for-monthly-gain-in-asia-s-best-performance-bonds-rise.html
The won posted the biggest gain
among Asian currencies this month and  government bonds  rose as
South  Korea ’s improving economic outlook lured overseas funds.  Foreign investors bought $1.6 billion more local shares
than they sold in August as of yesterday, exchange data show,
while exports and industrial production beat economists’
forecasts to increase in July from a year earlier. U.S.
policymakers are “broadly comfortable” with a plan to start
trimming debt purchases later this year if the economy improves,
minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s July meeting showed last week.  “South Korea has relatively solid fundamentals compared to
other emerging countries, which prompted foreign investors to
buy local stocks and won-denominated assets,” said Lee Dae Ho,
a currency analyst at Hyundai Futures Corp. in Seoul. “Traders
won’t be aggressively buying until the Fed’s next meeting, which
may provide a sign on the tapering strategy.”  The won strengthened 1.2 percent in August to 1,110.04 per
dollar in  Seoul , the best performance among the 11 most-traded
Asian currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
rose 0.6 percent this week and was little changed today. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
exchange rate used to price options, fell 50 basis points, or
0.5 percentage point, this month to 7.91 percent.  The U.S. central bank will begin to slow its bond purchases
at the Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to 65 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg this month.  Surplus Target  Industrial production rose 0.9 percent from a year earlier,
official data showed today, while overseas sales increased 2.6
percent, according to a report earlier this month. Korean
exporters are less sensitive to the  exchange rate  than they used
to be and resurgent domestic spending will ultimately boost
imports and help reduce demand for the local currency, Finance
Minister Hyun Oh Seok said in an Aug. 28 interview.  The nation recorded a current-account surplus of $6.8
billion in July, compared with $7.2 billion in June, the  Bank of
Korea  reported yesterday. This year’s $53 billion excess target
is achievable “without difficulty,” Bank of Korea Director
General Jung Yung Taek said in Seoul yesterday.  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy expects a moderate recovery
over the coming months on positive export momentum and the Bank
of Korea will keep the policy rate on hold until the middle of
next year, Goohoon Kwon and Chiwoong Lee, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. analysts, wrote in a research note today.  The yield on  South Korea ’s 2.75 percent bonds due June 2016
dropped six basis points in August to 2.88 percent, Korea
Exchange Inc. prices show. The yield fell nine basis points this
week and four basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  