-- WTI Crude Declines as U.K. Lawmakers Reject Syrian Action
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-08-30T12:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/wti-declines-a-second-day-as-u-k-lawmakers-reject-syrian-action.html
West Texas Intermediate fell for a
second day as U.K. lawmakers rejected a motion for military
action against Syria, reducing the prospect of an imminent
strike and easing concern of disruption to  Middle East  exports.  Futures slid as much as 1.9 percent in  New York , trimming
this week’s advance to 1.4 percent. The U.K. House of Commons
rejected a proposal put forward by Prime Minister  David Cameron 
seeking a military response to what he says is evidence of the
use of chemical weapons by Syria. The global oil market is
adequately supplied and doesn’t require the release of emergency
stockpiles, according to the  International Energy Agency .  “U.K. participation in a Syria strike looks pretty
unlikely in the near future,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior
broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London. “There will probably
be a U.S. airstrike, but then the civil war will continue, and
Brent will go back below $110.”  WTI for October delivery dropped as much as $2.05 to
$106.75 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $107.85 at 1:32 p.m. London time.
The contract lost 1.2 percent yesterday, declining from the
highest close since May 2011. Prices are up 2.7 percent in
August, poised for a third monthly gain.  Brent for October settlement was at $114.75 a barrel, 41
cents lower on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange,
having earlier lost as much as $1.53. The European benchmark’s
premium to WTI was last at $6.88 and earlier today reached $8.41
a barrel, the strongest since June 10.  Syrian Unrest  Societe Generale SA said Brent prices may surge as high as
$150 if the  Syria  conflict spreads and disrupts supply from the
region, according to an e-mailed report on Aug. 28. Brent traded
at $147.50 on July 11, 2008, the highest intraday price on
record.  Brent has technical resistance along a long-term downtrend
line on the monthly chart, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. This line, connecting the closing prices of July 2008
and March 2012, is at about $116 a barrel this month. Sell
orders tend to be clustered around chart-resistance levels.  WTI may increase next week on the prospect of an attack
against Syria, according to a slim margin in a Bloomberg survey
of 37 analysts and traders. Sixteen, or 43 percent, forecast
futures will gain through Sept. 6, while 15 respondents
predicted a drop and six said there will be no change.  Middle East  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is struggling to
marshal conclusive evidence backing its assertion that President
Bashar al-Assad was directly responsible for the alleged
chemical attacks last week near Damascus, according to three
intelligence officials familiar with the situation. The U.S.
won’t act without allies, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said.  The Middle East accounted for about 35 percent of global
oil production in the first quarter of this year, according to
data from the International Energy Agency. Syria shares a border
with  Iraq , the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  The IEA is monitoring the market and “stands ready” to
respond if there’s a major supply disruption, and the immediate
release of stockpiles is not required, the adviser to 28 energy-consuming nations said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Saudi Arabia  The Paris-based agency coordinated the release of 60
million barrels of crude and refined products in June 2011 to
offset lost shipments from  Libya , where an uprising against
 Muammar Qaddafi  almost halted the country’s oil exports. Brent
fell 8 percent in the two days after the announcement of that
intervention, the third use of reserves in the IEA’s 39-year
history.  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s top producer, will probably keep its
output in September at similar levels to this month and July,
according to a person with knowledge of the kingdom’s oil
policy.  The world’s biggest crude exporter produced 10.03 million
barrels a day in July, and taking into account inventory
movements it supplied 9.9 million barrels a day to the market
that month, the person said, asking not to be identified because
the matter is confidential. Separately, a Bloomberg monthly
survey published yesterday showed the kingdom’s August
production at an average rate of 9.95 million barrels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  