-- Yanukovych Says Joining Russian Union Would Require Referendum
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-08-30T14:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/yanukovych-says-joining-russian-union-would-require-referendum.html
Ukraine would need to hold a
referendum if officials decided to seek membership of the
Russia-led customs union or the European Union, President  Viktor Yanukovych  said.  “We don’t know when the decision will be made to join the
EU or the customs union,” Yanukovych said today in a statement
on his  website , which cited an interview with Ukraine’s four
biggest television channels. “In any case we will not be able
to proceed without a referendum.”  The Ukrainian leader said he’s sure his country will meet
all the necessary conditions to sign an Association Agreement
and form a free-trade zone with the 28-member EU in November, a
move Russia has said would block any potential membership of the
customs union.  Russia has offered its neighbor cheaper natural gas if it
joins its union, which also includes Belarus and Kazakhstan, and
has threatened stricter border controls should Ukraine proceed
with the EU accord. Ukrainian Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said
this week that the country needs to find ways to work with the
customs union after signing the European pact.  “The idea of a referendum is meant to send a message more
to Moscow, raising a hurdle to signing up to membership of the
customs union, which the Ukrainians would rather not do,” Tim
Ash, chief emerging-markets strategist at  Standard Bank  in
 London , said in an e-mailed note. “It seems clear now in my
mind that Ukraine wants to sign up to the” EU agreement.  Ukraine will continue to diversify gas supplies by buying
gas in  Europe , according to Yanukovych, who called proposals by
Russia over a new import contract “demeaning.” He reiterated
that Ukraine won’t raise domestic energy tariffs, a step the
 International Monetary Fund  has demanded in bailout talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  