-- Yingli Solar-Panel Shipments Surge to Record on Demand
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-08-30T20:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/yingli-solar-panel-shipments-surge-to-record-on-demand.html
Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , the
world’s largest solar manufacturer, shipped a record number of
panels in the second quarter as demand from Asian and U.S.
customers increased.  Shipments rose 24 percent from the previous quarter,
boosting revenue and helping to cut Yingli’s net loss by almost
half to $52.3 million, the Baoding, China-based company said
today in a statement. Higher selling prices also contributed to
wider gross profit margins, it said.  The quarter saw “strong demand growth in  China , the U.S.
and  Japan  and a significant increase in the proportion of these
regions as a percentage of our total shipments driven by
traditional peak seasons and the accelerated construction of
utility-scale projects,” Chairman Liansheng Miao said on a call
with analysts.  Solar-panel prices have begun to recover after an
oversupply sent them lower for two years. The weakening market
pushed many manufacturers out of business, while those that
survived saw profits wiped out. Yingli’s latest results mark its
eighth  consecutive  quarterly net loss.  Prices have stabilized for the company and demand and
supply have reached an “equilibrium,” Miao said on the call.  The company reiterated its forecast for full-year shipments
of 3.2 gigawatts to 3.3 gigawatts, or about 40 percent more than
last year.  Prices for silicon-based panels have risen almost 8 percent
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yingli’s American depositary receipts, each worth one
ordinary share, rose 2.4 percent to $4.30 at the close in  New
York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  