-- ZTE Quadruples Lobbying After U.S. House Blacklisting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-08-30T17:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/zte-quadruples-lobbying-after-u-s-house-blacklisting.html
ZTE Corp. (000063)  more than quadrupled its
spending on lobbying after a House report warned that the
telecommunications company’s products may help the Chinese
government spy on the U.S.  China’s second-largest phone-equipment maker reported
spending $330,000 to lobby Congress in the first six months of
this year -- the most since it began lobbying in 2009, Senate
records show. That compared with $80,000 during the same period
a year earlier, according to company filings.  The increase followed a House Intelligence Committee  report 
that effectively blacklisted ZTE’s products, warning that the
Shenzhen-based company’s growth in the U.S. might allow China to
disrupt power grids or financial networks.  ZTE is following a well-worn path in bringing in advocates
to blunt bad news in Washington, as was the case in the 1990s
when  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  ratcheted up its lobbying while facing a
Justice Department antitrust suit.  “When a company is under attack, the classic thing is to
hire the old Washington hands to plead their case,” said  Bill Allison , editorial director of the Sunlight Foundation, a
watchdog group in Washington.  ZTE declined to comment on why it increased its lobbying.  The company is looking for a larger share of U.S.
networking equipment sales. The market is about $51 billion,
according to ACG Research, a Gilbert, Arizona-based industry
consulting firm.  ZTE’s competitors include  San Jose , California-based  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) ; Espoo, Finland-based  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ; Paris-based
Alcatel-Lucent SA and Stockholm-based Ericsson AB.  Former Congressman  ZTE’s newest lobbyists include former Representative  Mike Castle , a Delaware Republican, and Democratic fundraiser Tony Podesta, who owns the No. 3 U.S. lobbying firm in terms of
revenue, Senate filings show.  Castle is a partner in the law and lobbying firm DLA Piper
LLP, which began providing legal services to ZTE once the House
committee announced its investigation in November 2011. In
November 2012, a month after the panel released its report, DLA
Piper registered to lobby for the company. Castle was first
listed as a ZTE lobbyist in the firm’s second-quarter filings.  The former congressman and other DLA Piper representatives
visit  Capitol Hill  to make the case that ZTE’s equipment can be
tested by independent laboratories to ensure that it’s secure.
Other telecommunications companies that manufacture products in
China install equipment that hasn’t been tested, said John Merrigan, co-chairman of  DLA Piper ’s federal law and policy
group.  “ZTE is the only company that can certify that its
equipment can be tested and found reliable,” said Merrigan.  Hill Aides  ZTE hired Podesta’s firm April 4, Senate records show.
Podesta and seven former congressional aides, including David
Adams, a former assistant secretary of state, are registered to
lobby for ZTE. Podesta was overseas on vacation and unavailable
for comment.  The House committee’s report last October advised U.S.
agencies and government contractors to steer clear of both ZTE
and Huawei Technologies Co. The report said the companies hadn’t
adequately explained their relationships with the Chinese
government.  “We said in our report that we’re putting people on notice
that if they use these companies’ technology, there’s a chance
that the Chinese government may be able to access their
information,” Representative C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of
Maryland, the Intelligence Committee’s ranking Democrat, said in
a phone interview last month.  Malicious Hardware  The report warned that companies such as Huawei and ZTE
“provide a wealth of opportunities for Chinese intelligence
agencies to insert malicious hardware or software implants into
critical telecommunications components and systems.” That might
allow the government in Beijing to affect U.S. power grids or
financial networks, the report said.  “It appears that under Chinese law, ZTE and Huawei would
be obligated to cooperate with any request by the Chinese
government to use their systems or access them for malicious
purposes under the guise of state security,” the report said.  Huawei officials told the committee that it had
misinterpreted the law before the report was published and that
the panel “willfully” ignored the company’s clarification,
 William Plummer , a Huawei spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  Both ZTE and Huawei, also based in Shenzhen, have denied
links to espionage and have said that they aren’t controlled by
the Chinese government. Plummer said the committee hasn’t been
able to prove any inappropriate activity by Huawei.  Lobbying Cycles  Huawei’s lobbying expenses declined to $280,000 in the
first six months of 2013 from $820,000 during the same period a
year earlier, Senate records show. Huawei had more than
quadrupled its lobbying expenditures from January to June in
2012, in the midst of the House committee probe, from the same
period in 2011.  The decrease in Huawei’s lobbying spending this year
doesn’t mean the company has lost interest in the U.S. market,
Plummer said. “Everything is cyclical,” he said.  ZTE reported $80,000 in lobbying expenses between January
and June 2012. During the first six months of 2011, ZTE’s
outside firms said they were paid $100,000. The company itself
didn’t file any reports for that period.  ZTE Sales  ZTE’s products include smartphones, tablets,
videoconferencing devices, and equipment for high-speed Internet
networks. While the company doesn’t separately report its U.S.
sales, it had revenue of 84.2 billion  yuan  ($13.8 billion) last
year, according to its annual report. About 7 percent of that
revenue came from the U.S. market, Cynthia Meng, a Hong Kong-based analyst with Jefferies Group LLC, has said. Most of ZTE’s
U.S. sales are from smartphones, feature phones and wireless
routers, she said.  Government spying concerns have hurt the companies’ efforts
to expand business in the U.S. Huawei was barred in 2011 by the
U.S. Commerce Department from participating in a nationwide
emergency network.  A month after the House committee announced its probe,
Cheng Lixin, president and chief executive officer of ZTE
U.S.A., said the company was “less optimistic” about doing
business here.  “We have certain limitations because we are a Chinese
company,” Cheng said in a December 2011 interview. “Because of
national-security concerns, we are not allowed to bid” on some
telecommunications projects.  Restricted Use  This year,  SoftBank Corp., (9984)  based in  Tokyo , gave assurances
that it would limit the use of Huawei equipment before winning
federal approval to acquire  Overland Park , Kansas-based  Sprint
Corp. (S) , the No. 3 U.S. wireless company.  Matthew Nicholson, a SoftBank spokesman, declined to
comment whether there were similar restrictions concerning ZTE.  President  Barack Obama  signed a law in March limiting some
federal agencies’ ability to purchase information technology
devices from companies with ties to the Chinese government.  ZTE hasn’t given up on expanding U.S. sales. In 2011, it
approached a unit of a Baltimore-based cybersecurity company,
CyberPoint International LLC, asking for help in improving its
U.S. sales, according to Jerry Caponera, CyberPoint’s general
manager for global partnerships.  CyberPoint’s Prescient unit assessed a videoconferencing
device made by ZTE, documented its flaws, and built and
installed its own hardware and software-based firewall to block
potentially unauthorized access.  GSA Contract  That product, which carries both ZTE’s and Prescient’s
names, is available for sale to U.S. government agencies through
a contract with the  General Services Administration , which
coordinates orders for federal offices.  Mafara Hobson, a GSA spokeswoman, said this month the
agency wasn’t aware of any orders of the device. The GSA
contract doesn’t guarantee that any agency will buy the
videoconferencing equipment -- just that the companies can
market their products.  “I don’t see this changing the marketplace for ZTE,” said
Trey Hodgkins, a senior vice president for TechAmerica, a
Washington-based trade group that represents companies such as
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL)   “There is intelligence out there that hasn’t been shared
with industry that is being almost universally accepted by the
government,” he said. “There’s a belief that products produced
by these companies that were called out are off-limits in almost
any and all situations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  