-- Zurich Defends Account as Ackermann Exits After CFO Death
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-08-30T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-30/zurich-defends-account-as-ackermann-exits-after-cfo-death.html
Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) ,
 Switzerland ’s largest insurer, is seeking to dispel concerns
surrounding its accounts after Chairman  Josef Ackermann  quit in
the wake of the chief financial officer’s suicide.  “I want to make it crystal clear that there is no link
between this news and Zurich’s business and financial
performance,” Chief Executive Officer Martin Senn said on a
conference call with analysts yesterday. “We continue to be
very profitable and we continue to generate very healthy cash
flows. We have a strong and resilient balance sheet.”  Senn’s remarks prompted shares to rise for the first time
this week after the company’s announcement late Aug. 26 that
Pierre Wauthier was found dead at his home erased about 2.2
billion Swiss francs ($2.4 billion) in market value. The CFO’s
suicide had sparked fresh doubts about the company’s health
after it missed analysts’ profit estimates in three of the past
four quarters and announced a surprise write-off in October.  “They were as clear as they possibly could be that there
was no link between what has happened and the financial
situation,” said  Peter Eliot , a London-based analyst at
Berenberg Bank with a buy rating on the shares. “That has given
people some confidence.”  Ackermann, 65, resigned as chairman on Aug. 29 after
Wauthier mentioned him in his suicide note and members of the
CFO’s family accused him of sharing responsibility for the 53-year-old’s death. The Swiss national called the allegations
“unfounded.” Joerg Neef, a spokesman for Ackermann, said the
executive won’t comment further.  ‘More Questions’  The stock has dropped 4.9 percent this year, giving the
Zurich-based firm a market value of 34.3 billion francs, while
the 30-member Bloomberg  Europe  500 Insurance Index has gained 11
percent. The Swiss Market Index is up 14 percent.  Thomas Seidl, an analyst at  Sanford Bernstein  in  London ,
said the management failed to provide the reassurance needed. At
Zurich Insurance’s earnings call on Aug. 15, “I at least sensed
more questions on reporting than in previous calls,” he told
Senn. “This just struck me in the context of recent events.”  Zurich Insurance that day reported a drop in second-quarter
net income to $789 million from $1.09 billion a year earlier and
said the target for its general insurance business was
“challenging” following disaster-related losses. The profit
was below the $823.8 million average estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, the second-straight miss.  By comparison,  Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s biggest insurer, based
in Munich, had shrugged off similar losses to report a 27
percent increase in second-quarter net income.  ‘Disappointing’  Analysts at Berenberg Bank in a note on Aug. 26 called
Zurich Insurance’s second-quarter earnings “disappointing,”
saying that their upgrade to buy in June “was too early.”
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in June downgraded the shares, a month
after Credit Suisse Group AG also cut its rating.  Fifty-nine percent of analysts tracked by Bloomberg
recommend holding Zurich Insurance shares, while 33 percent have
a buy and 8 percent a sell rating. By contrast, 68 percent of
analysts recommend buying Allianz shares.  Weaker-than-estimated earnings were not the only reason
leaving investors disgruntled. Five months after Ackermann
joined as chairman in June 2012 following a 10-year tenure as
CEO of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s largest lender, Zurich
Insurance’s management was forced to increase provisions at its
German general insurance business by about $550 million.  ‘Disappointed’  The company said at the time its leadership “is
disappointed with this significant financial adjustment,” which
prompted shares to drop the most in more than six months. Zurich
Insurance in February made further claims provisions of $130
million to cover potential losses at the German business.  Tom de Swaan, who became acting chairman after Ackermann’s
departure, also sought to reassure analysts on the call that
Zurich Insurance doesn’t face any undisclosed costs, saying that
“there was nothing” the chairman of the  audit committee  had to
report, when asked this week.  For their part, some analysts remain unconvinced.  “Quarter after quarter we saw one-offs, negative one-offs,” Patrick Noel, an analyst with Groupama Asset Management
said on the call. “Perhaps you’re unlucky. The bad news quarter
after quarter makes me think there are perhaps some fundamental
problems in your company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  