-- 21Vianet Falls on Sales as Unicom Drops: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-08-21T20:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/21vianet-falls-on-sales-as-unicom-drops-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities retreated to a one-week low in New York as Federal Reserve minutes signaled it will
reduce bond buying if the economy improves.  21Vianet Group Inc. (VNET) 
plunged the most in a year.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. fell 0.8 percent to 95.3 yesterday
21Vianet, a data-center operator, slid 7.1 percent after failing
to surpass analysts’ earnings projections.  China Unicom (CHU)  (Hong
Kong) Ltd. sank the most in two months and American depositary
receipts of  Huaneng Power International Inc. (902)  traded below the
Hong Kong stock for an eighth day.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  jumped after
boosting its outlook for panel shipments this year.  Chinese ADRs followed emerging markets lower after Fed
minutes of its July meeting showed officials supported tapering
its bonds purchase this year if the economy improves. The China-US gauge has rallied 17 percent since June 24, when concern of
cash shortage and slower economic growth sent the index to a 20-month low.  “If you do see the Fed begin to slow its bond purchasing,
it will be negative for money flows out of the  emerging
markets ,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset
Management Inc., which manages $700 million of assets, said by
phone yesterday from Lisle,  Illinois . “Some of the Chinese
names may sell off after strong rallies.”  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., dropped 2 percent to $34.85,
slumping the most in five weeks. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell 0.6 percent after the Fed published minutes of its July
30-31 meeting.  21Vianet Forecast  21Vianet’s American depositary receipts sank to $13, the
lowest level this month. Trading volume was triple the 90-day
average, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The slump cut its
rally this year to 35 percent.  Beijing-based 21Vianet, which started a partnership in May
with Microsoft Corp. to offer cloud services in  China , provided
third-quarter  revenue forecast  of $83 million to $85 million
Aug. 20, compared with an average of $84.6 million of four
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 29 percent to $76.8
million in April-June, while analysts had projected $76.3
million on average.  “Maybe there wasn’t enough upside relative to expectations
as it is heading into the cloud service offering with
Microsoft,” Todd Weller, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
said by phone from Baltimore yesterday. “The stock had a pretty
big run in the last several months mainly thanks to improved
sentiment on China’s Internet stocks.”  Vipshop Retreats  Huaneng, China’s biggest electricity producer, slumped 3.8
percent to $38.80, the lowest price since July 8. The ADRs, each
representing 40 underlying shares in Huaneng, traded 0.8 percent
below its Hong Kong shares on its eighth day of discounts.  Online fashion retailer  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  dropped for a
second day, sinking 4.4 percent to $39.56. Beijing-based e-commerce company LightInTheBox Holding Co., which tumbled 40
percent Aug. 20 after its forecast a drop in third-quarter sales
from the previous three months, declined 4 percent to $11.12 in
New York, the lowest since its initial public offering in June.  Trina, China’s third-largest solar panel maker, jumped 15
percent to $8.97 in New York, extending its gains over the past
two days to 32 percent, the biggest two-day rally in 18 months.  The company increased its shipments forecast this year by
as much as 20 percent, according to its statement Aug. 20. Solar
manufacturers  SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  and JinkoSolar Holding Co. said
they’re also running their factories at maximum and mulling ways
to boost output.  Rising demand in Asia is soaking up the capacity surplus in
the industry and will prompt the biggest producers to expand
factories, said Angelo Zino, an analyst at Standard & Poor’s in
New York.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index retreated 0.5 percent
to 9,856.86 in a third day of declines. The  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  was little changed at 2,072.96.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  