-- Abbott Defends Parental Leave Plan in Australia Election Debate
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-08-21T11:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/abbott-defends-parental-leave-plan-in-australia-election-debate.html
Australian opposition leader  Tony Abbott , whose coalition leads in opinion polls before the Sept.
7 elections, said his proposed paid parental leave system will
be partially funded by cutting the ruling Labor Party’s existing
program.  “This is a watershed reform,” Abbott said in a debate
with Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  in Brisbane today. The plan,
expected to cost A$5.5 billion ($5 billion) a year, would be
half funded by a tax on big business, with the rest from
scrapping Labor’s parental leave system and other measures, he
said.  Rudd’s Labor government is pressuring Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition to release details of its policy costs before
the election. Both leaders’ ability to promise pre-election
sweeteners has been hit by falling government revenue as the
economy slows, with Treasury predicting a budget deficit of
A$30.1 billion.  Abbott’s paid parental leave plan, which offers a new
parent earning less than A$150,00 a year as much as A$75,000
over six months, would result in the coalition announcing cuts
to services after the election, Rudd said. The Labor program
established in 2011, offers up to A$11,196 over 4 1/2 months.  “We’re at the half-way point” of the election campaign,
Rudd said. “Up until now, no details at all about where those
cuts fall in jobs, health and education. What I really fear is
this: that we get to election day, no details out; after the
election, the cuts fall.”  Labor Trailing  Abbott’s coalition doubled its lead in the two-party
preferred measure over Rudd’s  Labor party  to an eight-point
margin, according to a Newspoll published in The Australian
newspaper Aug. 19. The measure is designed to gauge which party
is most likely to form a government under  Australia ’s
preferential voting system.  “The government inherited A$50 billion in the bank” when
it came to power in December 2007, Abbott said. “Now our net
debt is close to A$200 billion. What I will do is grow a
stronger economy so everyone can get ahead. I just don’t think
we can afford another three years like the last six.”  Today’s debate, the second of three planned before the
election, had one moment of heat as Rudd and Abbott answered
questions from 100 self-described undecided voters.  “Does this guy ever shut up?” Abbott said during one of
Rudd’s replies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  