-- Macquarie Hires Morgan Stanley’s Gray for U.S. Equities
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-08-21T11:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/macquarie-hires-morgan-stanley-s-gray-for-u-s-equities.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , Australia’s
largest investment bank, hired  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s  Michael Gray  to
run international sales trading as part of an expansion of its
U.S. equities business.  Gray, who will be a New York-based managing director, was
previously a managing director overseeing international equity
sales trading at Morgan Stanley, Sydney-based Macquarie said
today in a statement. The firm also hired Ali Mossadeghi as a
managing director in institutional equity sales, based in San
Francisco. Mossadeghi has previously worked at Susquehanna
International Group LLP and Barclays Plc, according to the
statement.  Macquarie posted its first profit growth in three years
after boosting fund management fees and cutting costs, according
to a statement in May. Macquarie Securities, the bank’s equity-trading business, reported a net loss of A$50 million ($45.2
million) for the year ended March 31, which narrowed from A$194
million the previous year.  “The addition of these talented professionals enhances our
existing expertise and client relationships, and further
broadens the capability of our global execution platform,” Ken Savio, U.S. head of Macquarie Securities, said today in the
statement.  Macquarie also hired Liz Hunter as a New York-based senior
vice president in cash trading. She was previously a director in
cash equities at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch unit.
Jason Rubin is joining Macquarie as a senior vice president in
institutional sales in New York. He was previously a director at
Dahlman Rose & Co., according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  