-- Aeromexico Dreamliner Leads Nation’s Record Fleet Upgrade
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-08-21T20:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/aeromexico-s-dreamliner-bet-leads-nation-s-record-fleet-upgrade.html
Grupo Aeromexico SAB (AEROMEX*) , Mexico’s
largest airline, is spearheading the biggest fleet upgrade in
the nation’s history with  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s Dreamliner as its
competitors buy planes from Airbus SAS and Russia’s Sukhoi.  The Boeing 787-8 jet will equip Aeromexico with advanced
technology after years in which Mexican airlines used outdated
planes, Chief Executive Officer Andres Conesa said today at
Mexico City’s airport. Aeromexico took delivery of the first
plane last week and is due to get 19 Dreamliners through 2019.  “Now we have better airplanes, better technology than our
competitors,” Conesa said. “We’re betting on the future of
this country and we think it’s a very promising one.”  New jets will allow Mexican airlines to take advantage of
demand for air travel that’s poised to eclipse 2012’s record.
Interjet and Volaris have each ordered more than 40 Airbus jets
and Interjet is also adding Superjet 100 regional jets from a
joint venture between Moscow-based United Aircraft Corp.’s
Sukhoi and a unit of  Italy ’s  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)   Aeromexico’s Dreamliner will boost profitability by cutting
fuel costs and serving routes connecting Mexico City with New
York,  Tokyo  and Paris later this year, Conesa said. The carrier
will receive its second Dreamliner in about four weeks, and its
third is arriving in about six weeks, he said.  The shares  rose  2 percent to 18.27 pesos at the close in
Mexico City, paring their decline to 5.3 percent this year.  Lucrative Routes  Aeromexico’s order from Boeing -- 100 planes with a list
value of $11 billion made last year -- will refresh a fleet that
consisted of 112 planes made by the Chicago-based company and
 Brazil ’s  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  as of June 30. The purchase comprises 90 of
Boeing’s 737 Max single-aisle jets and 10 of the wide-body, all-composite Dreamliners, a transaction described by the government
as the biggest aircraft purchase in Mexico’s history.  The Dreamliner will allow Aeromexico to fly direct from
Mexico City to Tokyo, which it can’t currently do, Conesa said.
It’s also planning to use the jet on flights from the Mexican
capital to  London  and Buenos Aires starting next year, he said.  “There are important opportunities that we have to take
advantage of to make Mexico City more of a hub to connect with
the rest of the world,” Conesa said. “The arrival of this
equipment helps you advance in that strategy by offering a
better product.”  Domestic Markets  While Aeromexico will use its Dreamliners on lucrative
long-haul routes, the Superjets for  Mexico ’s No. 2 airline will
be deployed in smaller domestic markets, according to Marco Montanez, an analyst with Vector Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico
City. Interjet plans to unveil the Superjet 100 plane tomorrow
at an event in Toluca, Mexico.  “This aircraft will be mainly used to open new regional
routes in Mexico, mostly of shorter distance, where there’s a
lot of demand and growth opportunities,” Montanez said in an e-mail.  Interjet, owned by ABC Aerolineas SA, has ordered 20 of the
aircraft and has options for 10 more.  The carrier is scheduled to add two Airbus A320 single-aisle planes in November to its current fleet of 39 A320s and
two Superjets, according to an e-mail from the office of Chief
Financial Officer Luis Alejandro Beristain. The company also has
an order for 40 A320 Neo planes to be delivered from 2018
through 2023.  Volaris, owned by Controladora Vuela Cia. de Aviacion SAB,
will receive 47 A320 jets through 2020, the company said in an
e-mail. The airline’s fleet features Airbus planes comprising 22
A319s and 21 A320s, according to its website.  Aeroenlaces Nacionales SA, the airline known as
VivaAerobus, is evaluating options for an aircraft order,
according to Alejandra Ochoa, a spokeswoman. Its fleet of 19
Boeing 737 aircraft has an average age of 15 years, Ochoa said.  “It’s going to happen, but there’s no agreement yet,” she
said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  