-- African Barrick CEO Hawkins Departs After 73% Share Rout
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-08-21T15:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/african-barrick-gold-names-bradley-gordon-ceo-as-hawkins-resigns.html
African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG) , the gold
producer that has slumped 73 percent since it listed in London,
said Greg Hawkins quit as chief executive officer with immediate
effect.  Hawkins will be replaced by Bradley A. Gordon, the London-based company said in a statement today. Gordon has 30 years of
gold-mining experience and will join the board as an executive
director.  African Barrick has been dogged by operational setbacks
since it was spun off from Toronto-based  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  in
2010, and has struggled to meet production targets. The company
is reviewing its operations to cut costs that have ballooned by
71 percent since 2010.  “Bradley steps into a challenging position within a
company with significant structural issues,” Liberum Capital
Ltd. said in a note to investors. “The real test will be
whether or not Bradley can deliver the operational cost savings
which Greg started.”  When African Barrick listed in  London  the company said it
was targeting annual production of 1 million ounces in 2014.
Instead, it has posted output declines for three consecutive
years and has been surpassed by rivals  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) 
and  Petropavlovsk Plc. (POG)   African Barrick slipped 0.4 percent to 155.3 pence by the
close in London trading. The stock started trading at 575 pence
in March 2010.  London Relocation  In July, it wrote down the value of its mines by $727
million as it reported a first-half net loss of $701.2 million,
compared with a year-earlier profit of $73.7 million.  Gordon, who will relocate to London from Australia, was
previously CEO of  Intrepid Mines Ltd. (IAU) , which operates in
 Indonesia , African Barrick said. Before that, he was CEO of
Emperor Mines Ltd. and worked for Placer Dome Inc.  Barrick Gold, the world’s biggest producer, sought to sell
its 74 percent stake in African Barrick last year to China
National Gold Group Corp. before talks broke down in January.  “Brad has a proven ability to deliver the maximum
potential from the operations he has managed, from reducing
costs and increasing production to achieving operational
efficiencies and extending mine lives,” African Barrick said.  There are no other matters requiring disclosure, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  