-- Thailand Holds Rate as Rising Debt Curbs Room to Aid Economy
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-08-21T08:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/thailand-holds-rate-as-household-debt-curbs-room-to-aid-economy.html
Thailand  kept its benchmark interest
rate unchanged for a second straight meeting as rising  household
debt  and capital outflows reduce scope for monetary easing to
revive an economy in recession.  The  Bank of Thailand  held its one-day bond  repurchase rate 
at 2.5 percent, with policy committee members voting six to one
for the decision, it said in Bangkok today. Nineteen of 20
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  predicted the outcome,
while one saw a reduction to 2.25 percent as an economic
contraction last quarter added to signs of a regional weakening.  The  Thai baht  fell to a one-year low this week after a
report showed  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy shrank two
consecutive quarters for the first time since the global
financial crisis. As the prospect of reduced U.S. monetary
stimulus fuels a selloff of emerging-market assets,  Malaysia  and
Thailand may be the most vulnerable after India and  Indonesia ,
Credit Suisse Group AG said.  “Despite the growth slowdown, it is quite hard for the
Thai central bank to cut rates to support the economy amid the
depreciation in the baht and high household debt,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist covering  emerging markets  at Dai-ichi
Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “The policy rate may be
kept on hold through the end of this year.”  The baht dropped 0.5 percent to 31.80 per dollar as of 3:23
p.m. in Bangkok after reaching 31.81 earlier, the weakest level
since July 25, 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
has lost about 6.3 percent in the past three months, after
reaching its highest level since 1997 in April. The benchmark
 Stock Exchange of Thailand Index  fell 0.6 percent.  ‘Accommodative Policy’  Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul yesterday
said the baht was moving in line with fundamentals and the
overall economic situation is “still OK.” While committee
members today expressed greater concern about economic growth
than in their previous meeting, the second-quarter slowdown met
expectations and had little impact on today’s decision,
Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan told reporters.  “The current accommodative policy is necessary and
appropriate for the economic situation,” said Paiboon, who
warned last month that rising household debts limited the scope
for  interest rate  cuts. Thais are now spending about 34 percent
of their income paying back loans, making it unlikely they’ll be
able to take on much more debt, he said.  Household Loans  Total loans to households reached 8.97 trillion baht ($282
billion) at the end of March, or about 77.5 percent of GDP,
Mathee Supapongse, a Bank of Thailand senior director, told
reporters on Aug. 19. That compares with 55 percent of GDP at
the end of 2007, when the central bank began including data on
loans from a wider range of financial companies, according to
calculations by Bloomberg based on  Bank of Thailand data .  Malaysia’s central bank said that household debt to GDP
last year reached 80 percent, while Moody’s Investors Service
last month said  Singapore ’s household debt rose to 77 percent of
GDP as of March, up from 64 percent at the end of 2007.  “Scope for the central bank to cut rates further is
limited due to banking sector fragility and rising household
leverage,”  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  said in a
note after the decision, adding that it expects the policy rate
to remain unchanged through 2013.  Thailand’s economy unexpectedly contracted 0.3 percent in
the three months through June from the previous quarter, when it
shrank by a revised 1.7 percent, the National Economic and
Social Development Board said Aug. 19. The agency cut its 2013
expansion forecast to a range of 3.8 percent to 4.3 percent from
4.2 percent to 5.2 percent. It also lowered its export growth
target to 5 percent from 7.6 percent  Growth Outlook  The central bank last month cut its 2013 GDP growth
forecast to 4.2 percent from 5.1 percent, citing weakening
exports.  Shipments (THCTEXPY)  grew 0.95 percent in the first six months
from a year earlier.  The monetary authority lowered  borrowing costs  by 25 basis
points in May. Singapore last week cut its forecast for exports
this year, while Indonesia this month reported second-quarter
GDP growth of less than 6 percent for the first time since 2010.  Thai  consumer confidence  fell to the lowest in seven months
in July on rising political unrest and the weakening economic
outlook. Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra imposed the Internal
Security Act for eight days this month to contain protests as
the parliament debated an amnesty bill for political protesters.  Her two-year-old administration has tried to speed up
budget disbursements as plans to spend 2 trillion baht on
infrastructure and 350 billion baht on water-management projects
have been delayed.  Car Sales  Domestic vehicle sales in Thailand fell 25 percent in July
from the previous year, Toyota Motor Corp. said yesterday,
following a forecast last month that industrywide sales will
drop 9.5 percent this year. Total bank loans grew 12.8 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier, compared with 13.2
percent in the previous three months, central bank data showed.  Consumer prices  rose 2 percent in July from a year earlier,
the least since November 2009. The Commerce Ministry on Aug. 1
said inflation this year may be lower than its forecast range of
2.8 percent to 3.4 percent.  Core inflation , which the central
bank uses to guide its policy, was 0.85 percent last month,
compared with a target of between 0.5 percent and 3 percent.  Low inflation and risks to growth create room for a rate
cut of 25 basis points before the year ends, Santitarn
Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse AG who
predicted a cut, wrote in a research note after the decision.  The central bank’s “post-decision statement sounded dovish
to us,” he wrote. This suggests “it is now more concerned
about growth while the worries over asset price bubble and
household debt have eased.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  