-- Taiwan Stocks Fall as Trading Resumes Following Tropical Storm
-- B y   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2013-08-22T02:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/taiwan-markets-to-open-as-tropical-storm-moves-toward-china.html
Taiwan  stocks fell and the local
currency strengthened after markets resumed trading today after
Severe Tropical Storm Trami unleashed steady rain in northern
Taiwan before heading toward southeastern China.  The Taiex index dropped 0.9 percent at 9:42 a.m. in Taipei.
Work and classes in Taipei, New Taipei and in Taoyuan county
resumed after being canceled yesterday, the government’s
personnel administration announced on its website last night.
The  Taiwan dollar  gained 0.4 percent against the  U.S. dollar  to
NT$29.984.  The latest storm followed Typhoon Soulik, which last month
lashed Taiwan with winds and rain, killing two and knocking out
electricity to more than half a million households, according to
Taiwan Power Co. Trami made landfall in  China ’s Fujian province
early today, according to the China Meteorological
Administration’s  website .  Ten people were injured, according to Taiwan’s Central
Emergency Operation Center’s website. About 654 millimeters (26
inches) of rain had fallen in Taipei in the last 56 hours,
according to the island’s  Central Weather Bureau  today. With
winds gusting as high as 137 kilometers (85 miles) an hour,
Trami was centered 400 kilometers to the west of the Chinese
southern city of Fuzhou as of 8 a.m. local time. A warning
against flooding and mudslides was lifted, the bureau said in
the advisory.  “Very heavy rains will continue to affect the whole
western part of Taiwan so residents should be on alert,” Chen
Yi-liang, a meteorologist at Taiwan’s weather bureau, said
during a webcast yesterday.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. will resume flights to and from
Taipei after 10 a.m. and warned of weather disruptions to its
Shanghai routes, the Hong Kong-based carrier said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  A total 319 flights were canceled or delayed in Taiwan
yesterday, the Civil Aeronautics Administration said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Debra Mao at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net  