-- Takeda’s Experimental Bowel Drug Effective, Studies Find
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2013-08-21T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/takeda-s-experimental-bowel-drug-effective-studies-find.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s
experimental drug effectively treats ulcerative colitis and
Crohn’s disease, inflammatory bowel diseases that affect as many
as 1.4 million Americans, two studies found.  Among patients with ulcerative colitis who took Takeda’s
intravenous drip vedolizumab for a year, at least 40 percent had
a temporary end to symptoms, compared with those who took
placebo for the same period, according to results published
today in the  New England Journal of Medicine . A separate study
found the drug helped Crohn’s patients reach remission after a
year of treatment, compared with those on placebo.  If approved, vedolizumab would offer a new option for
patients as about 10 percent each year are estimated to lose
response to each of the latest class of treatments available
such as  Johnson & Johnson’s (JNJ)  Remicade,  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) ’s Humira and
 UCB SA (UCB) ’s Cimzia, said Miles Sparrow, a gastroenterologist at the
Alfred Hospital in  Melbourne ,  Australia .  “These are diseases of life time, a significant percentage
of patients would have lost response,” Sparrow said in a
telephone interview before the announcement. “When these
diseases are not treated or undertreated, the burden of the
disease is very significant for patients. They really feel
miserable versus when they are well their quality of life will
be normal or nearly normal.”  The results are a part of data Takeda filed to seek
approvals for the drug in the U.S. and  Europe  in June and March,
respectively. Asia’s largest drugmaker is looking for  a new
revenue source  to replace its best-selling Actos diabetes
treatment which faces competition from cheaper copycat drugs.  Study Results  One study involved 895 patients, ages 18 to 80 who were
diagnosed with moderate to severe active ulcerative colitis and
had failed with at least one conventional therapy. It was the
last stage of patient studies generally required for regulatory
review.  Vedolizumab, or placebo, were given at the start, second
and sixth weeks of the trial initially. Patients who took the
medicine received the drip every four or eight weeks as
maintenance, while those who had placebo received it every four
weeks.  As many as 1.4 million Americans are estimated to suffer
from inflammatory bowel disease at a cost of $1.7 billion for
care, according to the  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention .  Over the long term, as much as 75 percent of patients with
Crohn’s disease and 25 percent those with ulcerative colitis
will require surgery, CDC said.  Patients who took vedolizumab were more likely to have a
remission after a year of treatment compared with the group who
took placebo, the study said. Side effects were more common with
the people who took the medicine, it said.  Takeda fell 1.7 percent to 4,470 yen in Tokyo trading
yesterday. The stock has risen 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  