-- Malaysia Well-Placed to Handle Currency Contagion, Zeti Says
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-08-21T11:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/malaysia-well-placed-to-handle-currency-contagion-zeti-says.html
Zeti Akhtar Aziz,  Malaysia ’s central
bank governor comments on risk of currency contagion and the
country’s narrowing current account surplus. She made these
remarks to reporters in Kuala Lumpur after announcing the
second-quarter economic growth.  On the risk of currency contagion:  “We are seeing highly destabilizing capital flows and this
is within our expectation because we earlier saw surges of
inflow in our financial system. We received something like 70
billion ringgit in inflows in search of higher returns.  “Now as there are discussions on potential for
quantitative easing, some of these funds will return back to
their respective economies. Therefore we expect that there will
be reversals. This is not the first time we see this phenomenon.
Previously, during the height of financial crisis, we also saw
2008 and 2009 surges of capital flows. We saw de-leveraging
taking place that precipitated depreciation in our currency and
the significant slide in our reserves.  “We demonstrated during that time our financial system was
able to cope with this and therefore we will able to do the same
in the current environment.  “We have strong intermediaries and one of biggest bond
markets in Asia. We also have strong institutional investors who
can absorb any selling of Malaysian government securities. Our
reserves level is at its strongest ever and we have a low level
of external indebtedness.”  On the ringgit:  “We have seen a depreciation of 6.9 percent. It’s very
important to highlight we have seen this before. That is why we
have always said it’s important to build buffers to have
flexibility and agility so that the financial institutions can
withstand such volatile conditions.”  On the shrinking current account surplus:  “The surplus has narrowed but it’s still a surplus and the
recovery in external demand will improve this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 Echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at  