-- Malaysia Cuts 2013 Growth Forecast as Expansion Misses Estimates
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-08-21T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/malaysia-cuts-2013-growth-forecast-as-expansion-misses-estimates.html
Malaysia  cut its forecast for growth
this year after second-quarter expansion missed economists’
estimates, adding pressure on policy makers to bolster
confidence as the ringgit weakens.  The economy may expand 4.5 percent to 5 percent in 2013,
from a previous prediction of as much as 6 percent, the central
bank said in Kuala Lumpur today.  Gross domestic product  rose 4.3
percent last quarter from a year earlier, after gaining 4.1
percent in the previous period, it said.  Malaysia was swept along in the regional turmoil this week,
as the prospect of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus and Asia’s
faltering growth outlook fueled a selloff of emerging-market
stocks and currencies. The  current-account surplus  fell to 2.6
billion ringgit ($790 million) last quarter as exports slumped,
a decline that could pressure the ringgit.  “If the current account continues to worsen, the
authorities may have to respond via tightening, cutting fuel
subsidies, or pacing investments at a more sustainable rate to
stem further deterioration,” Chua Hak Bin, an economist at Bank
of America Corp. in  Singapore , said before the announcement.
“Growth will have to slow as a result.”  The expansion last quarter was lower than the 4.7 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 22 economists. The
current-account surplus was the smallest since at least early
1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and compared with
the median estimate of 900 million ringgit in a separate survey.  Ringgit Depreciation  The ringgit has depreciated about 7 percent this year, the
fourth-worst performing currency in a basket of 11 major Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The stock gauge FTSE Bursa
Malaysia  KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  has fallen 3.6 percent since closing at a
record on July 24.  The surplus is narrowing on increased overseas investment
and property buying, higher imports for infrastructure projects,
lower palm oil and rubber export prices and the acquisition of
new aircraft by Malaysian Airline System Bhd., Abdul Wahid Omar,
minister in the Prime Minister’s Department in charge of
economic planning, said in an interview yesterday.  Malaysia and  Thailand  may be the most vulnerable after
India and  Indonesia , with the former facing a deteriorating
current-account balance and elevated foreign ownership of its
debt, Credit Suisse Group AG said. Analysts at Barclays Plc are
recommending bond investors hold underweight positions in
Malaysia, pointing to weak public finances in Malaysia.  Negative Outlook  Fitch Ratings last month cut Malaysia’s credit outlook to
negative from stable, citing rising debt levels and a lack of
budgetary reforms.  Net exports of goods and services slumped 41.6 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier, after falling 36.4
percent in the first quarter of 2013, today’s report showed.  Total consumption rose 8 percent in the April-to-June
period from a year ago after climbing 6.1 percent in the earlier
quarter. Gross fixed capital formation gained 6 percent, after
an increase of 13.1 percent in the previous period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  