-- All Blacks Hand Taylor Debut at Fly-Half as Wallabies Pick Fardy
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-22T02:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/all-blacks-name-taylor-fly-half-for-rugby-test-against-australia.html
New Zealand handed Tom Taylor his
Test debut at fly-half for this weekend’s Rugby Championship
match against Australia, one of two changes to the team that
opened the All Blacks’ title defense with a win in Sydney.  Taylor, 24, was chosen ahead of  Colin Slade  to start in the
playmaker’s role with fly-halves  Dan Carter , Aaron Cruden and
Beauden Barrett all ruled out of the match in Wellington in two
days. Brodie Retallick replaced injured lock Luke Romano in the
other starting change.  Taylor “is mentally tough and plays the game with a lot of
confidence and maturity,” All Blacks coach Steve Hansen said in
a statement. “These factors, along with his assured goalkicking
under pressure, has made this an easy selection. We have every
faith that he will handle the occasion with aplomb.”  Australia, which began Ewen McKenzie’s tenure as coach with
a 47-29 loss to the All Blacks five days ago, made an injury-enforced change of its own at blindside flanker as Scott Fardy
replaced Hugh McMeniman, who needs a shoulder reconstruction.  “This group learned a great deal from last week and will
be much better for the experience on Saturday night,” McKenzie
said. “We made a decision to reward players that were in-form
and who we believed were capable of executing what we are trying
to achieve as a group. That doesn’t change overnight or
following one losing result.”  The Wallabies haven’t beaten the All Blacks in New Zealand
since 2001, a run of 14 matches, and must win at Westpac Stadium
to keep alive their chances of wresting back the Bledisloe Cup.  World champion New Zealand has held the cup -- contested
annually by the two countries -- since 2002 and will ensure it
keeps the trophy for the 11th straight series by avoiding defeat
in Wellington or in Dunedin on Oct. 19.  South Africa retained the starting team from last weekend’s
73-13 rout of Argentina in Soweto for the Aug. 24 second-round
match against the Pumas in Mendoza.  AUSTRALIA: Jesse Mogg, Israel Folau, Adam Ashley-Cooper,
Christian Leali’ifano,  James O’Connor , Matt Toomua, Will Genia,
Ben Mowen, Michael Hooper, Scott Fardy,  James Horwill  (captain),
Rob Simmons, Ben Alexander, Stephen Moore, James Slipper.  Reserves: Saia Fainga’a, Scott Sio, Sekope Kepu, Kane
Douglas, Liam Gill, Nic White,  Quade Cooper , Tevita Kuridrani.  NEW ZEALAND: Israel Dagg, Ben Smith,  Conrad Smith , Ma’a
Nonu, Julian Savea, Tom Taylor,  Aaron Smith , Kieran Read,  Richie
McCaw  (captain), Steven Luatua, Samuel Whitelock, Brodie
Retallick, Owen Franks, Andrew Hore, Tony Woodcock.  Reserves: Dane Coles,  Wyatt Crockett , Charlie Faumuina,
Jeremy Thrush, Sam Cane, Tawera Kerr-Barlow, Colin Slade,
Charles Piutau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  