-- Hamptons Scene: Hedge Fund Men Join Scallop Pond’s Party
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-08-21T13:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/hamptons-scene-hedge-fund-men-join-scallop-pond-s-party.html
At  Peconic Baykeeper’s  fourth annual
Celebration of Our Bays, guests congregated in the backyard of
the Port of Missing Men, a private estate in Southampton
overlooking Scallop Pond and Cow Neck.  Admiring the setting was just as appealing as helping
yourself to the raw bar of oysters and clams, served on ice in a
canoe, donated by local fishermen. The pheasant in pastry cups
was worth a try too.  Kevin McAllister, the organization’s president and
Baykeeper, took shade under a tree.  “Scallop Pond is in fairly good shape,” McAllister said.
“The owner doesn’t use pesticides. She shakes a fist at the
mosquito control helicopters applying pesticides.”  He gestured to the land across the water, Cow Neck: a
parcel of 540 undeveloped acres (218 hectares) conserved by the
Peconic Land Trust with a gift by Louis Bacon, founder of Moore
Capital Management.  “Look at the surrounds,” McAllister said. “You don’t
have the people influence.”  McAllister has plenty of work to do elsewhere. He calls
himself a “clean water warrior” for the estuaries from the
Great South Bay to the tips of Long Island’s twin forks.  “He goes out and stops things from happening, and if
they’re already happening, he keeps them from getting worse,”
said Nancy Hebert, a Peconic Baykeeper board member who lives in
Southampton.  Drinkable Water  Cleaning up Havens Beach in Sag Harbor was one effort. Over
five to six years, Peconic Baykeeper “confirmed pollution and
helped implement a restoration plan, so bathers will not get
sick,” McAllister said. “We work for fishable, drinkable and
swimmable waters.”  The Baykeeper -- whose organization is part of the
Waterkeeper Alliance network -- then turned his attention to
guests. They included Steven Klinsky, founder of New Mountain
Capital LLC, George Brokaw, managing director Highbridge
Principal Strategies Growth Equity, and John Wambold, managing
director at Imperial Capital LLC, who recalled hunting pheasant
on Cow Neck.  Other guests included Scott Lindsay, global head of mergers
and acquisitions at  Credit Suisse AG (CSGN) , and Susan Dunne, wife of
Jim Dunne, co-founder of Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP.  Tickets ranged from $150 to $500 (which included a tour of
the house). The party on Aug. 16 honored John Cronin, former
Riverkeeper of the Hudson River for 17 years, and Skip
Tollefson, who ran the  Lobster Inn , a Southampton landmark on
Route 27, for longer.  IBM Technology  Cronin spoke of a project at  Beacon Institute  for Rivers
and Estuaries with  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) : a
real-time monitoring technology that will place sensors in the
water to transmit data wirelessly.  “I can look up the weather in real time anywhere in the
world,” Cronin said. “I’m going to be able to do the same
thing with water. So I’ll know in real time if a swimming beach
is contaminated, or if the drinking water in a village in the
developing world is contaminated.”  Chris Brady Jr., who works in venture capital and mobile
startups in New York, said he’s involved in protecting Clifton
Bay in the Bahamas, where the water is overrun with lionfish.
His role model is a man his father has known since college.  “Louis Bacon is a huge inspiration to me,” Brady said.  Maureen Sherry , author of a middle-grade novel about the
adventure of a family moving from  Brooklyn  to Fifth Avenue, said
she will plant hard clam and oyster beds to better filter local
waters on Sept. 7, working with the  School of Marine and
Atmospheric Sciences  at Stony Brook.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Guy Collins  on wine,  Ryan Sutton  on
U.S. food and  Hephzibah Anderson  on books.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 