-- Animal-Feed Billionaire Expands Into China Vehicle Distribution
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-21T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/animal-feed-billionaire-expands-into-china-vehicle-distribution.html
Liu Yonghao, who rose from penniless
pig-feed salesman to billionaire banker, is now trying his hand
at selling cars.  Liu’s closely held New Hope Group, which has interests in
chemicals, real estate and financial services, signed an
agreement with car retailer  E-Kingo Automotive Trade Co.  to
jointly build 200 dealership plazas in  China , according to the
two companies. The former schoolteacher, who co-founded China
Minsheng Banking Corp., has a net worth of $6.2 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  The move into vehicle distribution follows losses in
China’s animal husbandry sector as an outbreak of bird flu and
discovery of thousands of dead pigs in a Shanghai river hurt
poultry and pork sales. China surpassed the U.S. in 2009 as the
world’s largest vehicle market and annual deliveries may double
to 40 million units by 2030 from this year, according to the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  “Both companies see great opportunities in the vehicle
distribution and services business because cars are a major
shopping item for people who want to enhance their  living
standards ,” Liu Wei, vice president of Chengdu, China-based E-Kingo, said in a phone interview. “The two partners are making
preparations for the new company and will release our business
plan when we start operations.”  He declined to say when operations will begin or confirm
that the companies will invest a total of 200 billion  yuan  ($33
billion) over five years to build the facilities, reported
earlier by West China City Daily and posted on E-Kingo’s
website.  Car Dealers  New Hope and E-Kingo will build the plazas, which will
house multiple dealerships selling different auto brands, in
China’s small- and medium-sized cities to provide comprehensive
services to motorists including sales, maintenance, insurance
and used-car distribution, E-Kingo’s Liu said. The two companies
may also explore possibilities to offer more diversified
services such as catering and entertainment in those shopping
plazas, he said.  New Hope ’s Beijing-based spokeswoman Li Jia confirmed the
joint venture and referred queries to E-Kingo.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  