-- Apple Said to Add Music Videos From Vevo for TV Content
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-08-21T13:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/apple-said-to-add-music-videos-from-vevo.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is bringing music videos
from Vevo LLC to Apple TV, as the iPhone maker adds programming
for its $100 Internet-connected set-top box, said people
familiar with the plans.  Vevo, which is owned by major music labels including Sony
Corp.’s Sony Music Entertainment, will introduce an application
on the Apple TV box in the coming weeks that will feature on-demand music videos as well as other programming, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the deal hasn’t been
made public.  Apple is speeding up the pace of adding new content to its
set-top box. The Cupertino, California-based company announced
new programming deals with Time Warner Inc.’s HBO and  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN in June, and is also in talks to add an app
available with live broadcasting for subscribers of  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC) , people familiar with the plans have said.
Programming from iTunes,  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Hulu LLC has long been
available on Apple TV, which was unveiled in 2007.  Vevo will also be available through Samsung Electronics Co.
televisions, said one of the people familiar with the plans.  AdAge and The Wall Street Journal earlier reported the
Apple-Vevo deal, and The Wall Street Journal said yesterday that
Vevo will be available through Samsung televisions.  Jennifer Press, a spokeswoman for Vevo, declined to
comment. Trudy Muller, a spokeswoman for Apple, and  Adam Yates ,
a spokesman for Samsung, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  For Vevo, making its music videos available on TV sets is a
way to expand beyond YouTube, the  Google Inc. (GOOG)  online video
service. Google and Vevo have been partners since 2009, when
Vevo began as a new way for record labels to make money from the
popularity of watching music videos online. Under that
arrangement, Vevo shares advertising revenue with YouTube when
its videos are shown through the Google service.  Vevo is already available on Roku players and through apps
for Apple’s iPhone and iPad, as well as Android-based devices.  Apple’s shares rose less than 1 percent to $505.77 at 9:55
a.m. in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  