-- Dubai’s Arabtec Weighs Merger With Saudi, Kuwait Contractors
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-08-21T13:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/arabtec-mulling-mergers-creating-gulf-s-biggest-contractor.html
Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC) , the United Arab
Emirates’ largest construction company, is considering a merger
with the biggest contractors in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait,
according to Chief Executive Officer Hasan Abdullah Ismaik.  “We are now mulling mergers with the two biggest
construction companies in the Gulf, one is in Saudi and one is
in Kuwait,” Ismaik said in an interview with CNBC Arabia
without naming the other companies. “The benefits will be felt
by the shareholders and the market.”  Arabtec, which helped build the world’s tallest tower in
Dubai, in February replaced its management after Abu Dhabi
state-controlled Aabar Investments PJSC raised its stake and
exerted more influence on the company’s board. The Dubai-based
builder raised 2.4 billion dirhams ($653 million) in a rights
offer in July and said it will use the funds to bolster its oil
and gas installation and affordable housing businesses.  Arabtec is in talks to merge with  Kuwait ’s Combined Group
Contracting Co. and Saudi Arabia’s Saudi Oger Ltd., controlled
by the family of the former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafiq Al-Hariri, Kuwait’s Al Qabas newspaper said today, citing people it
didn’t identify. Arabtec declined to confirm or deny the report.
Saudi Oger also didn’t respond to calls, while no one at
Combined Group was able to comment.  Mixed Results  A combination with those companies may produce mixed
results for Arabtec, Loic Pelichet, an analyst at NBK Capital
wrote in a note to clients today.  It would boost the company’s access to Saudi Arabia’s
booming market and Kuwait, where the government may be set to
raise development spending, he wrote. On the other hand, such a
move “would fly in the face of the strategy the company has
proclaimed since its takeover by Aabar, namely to push for
aggressive expansion into oil and gas engineering,” Pelichet
said.  Neither Combined Group nor Saudi Oger are involved in that
industry, so a merger would either represent a strategic U-turn
or Arabtec would pursue both the merger and the energy
exploration expansion “in which case the execution risk would
rise significantly.” Pelichet recommends investors sell Arabtec
shares.  A merger with the two companies would be very complicated,
said Taher Safieddine, an analyst at  Shuaa Capital PSC. (SHUAA)  Closely
held Saudi Oger a has backlog of more than 40 billion riyals
($10.7 billion) and is the second-largest contractor in the
kingdom, he said. Combined Group is publicly traded with market
value of 131.8 million dinars ($464 million), comparable to
Arabtec, he said.  Oil Sense  “It would make more sense to expand capabilities in oil
and gas, infrastructure and power,” Safieddine said. “In that
case, buying the stakes they don’t already own in Target
Engineering and EFECO shows better alignment with their
strategy.”  Arabtec owns 60 percent of Target Engineering, which
specializes in oil and gas, and 55 percent of EFECO which
focuses on mechanical, electrical and plumbing, he said.  The contractor, which is building a branch of the Louvre
museum in Abu Dhabi, will bid for the construction of the
Guggenheim and Zayed museums in the United Arab Emirates capital
after Tourism Development & Investment Co. invited bids, the
company said today. Arabtec is evaluating more than 100 billion
dirhams worth of projects mostly in civil engineering,
infrastructure and oil & gas, Ismaik told CNBC Arabia.  Samsung Venture  The construction company’s joint venture with Samsung
Engineering Co. will probably have initial capital of $100
million to $300 million, the CEO told CNBC. Arabtec announced
the venture in April to further its expansion in the oil and gas
industry.  Arabtec in 2009 started a subsidiary in Saudi Arabia with
Saudi Bin Laden Group and Prime International Group Services
Ltd. The company is also working with Combined Group in Kuwait
on two contracts, Pelichet wrote.  Arabtec shares closed at their  highest  in 15 months, rising
3.9 percent to 2.65 dirhams. Combined Group was unchanged at
1,240 fils in Kuwait trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  