-- Argentina Prepares China Shale Deal to Boost Gas Reserves
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-08-21T19:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/argentina-prepares-china-shale-deal-to-boost-gas-reserves.html
YPF SA, Argentina’s state-owned
energy company, said its next shale oil and gas partnership will
be with a group including  China ’s  Cnooc Ltd. (883)   China’s biggest offshore energy explorer probably will sign
next month a definitive deal to explore and develop deposits in
the Vaca Muerta formation, either as part of its Bridas Corp.
joint venture with the billionaire Bulgheroni brothers or with
the Bridas-run Pan American Energy LLC, YPF board member Hector
Valle said in an interview.  An agreement with Cnooc and Bridas would be YPF’s second
binding shale partnership in the 16 months since President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  seized control of the company
from Spain’s  Repsol SA. (REP)  Argentina is counting on companies
including  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , which signed the first YPF shale deal
last month, to help develop Vaca Muerta and boost gas reserves
that now stand at just six years of consumption, Valle said.  “As soon as Chevron is fully approved by Neuquen province,
the door will be open to immediately seal new partnerships,”
the 78-year-old economist said from Buenos Aires yesterday.
“After the Americans, it will be the turn of China, either with
the Bulgheronis directly or via Pan American. That’s been
discussed.”  Once a definitive arrangement with Cnooc and Bridas is in
place, YPF will work on Vaca Muerta partnerships with  Dow
Chemical Co. (DOW)  and Argentine billionaire Eduardo Eurnekian’s
Corporacion America, with which the state company has signed
preliminary accords, Valle said.  YPF shares fell 1.4 percent to 141 pesos at 4:43 p.m. in
Buenos Aires after sliding as much as 2.1 percent. The stock has
risen 42 percent this year after losing 41 percent in 2012.  Second Largest  Bridas, which owns a 40 percent stake in Delaware-based Pan
American Energy and manages the company, reached a preliminary
agreement with YPF in December to develop Vaca Muerta, home to
the world’s second-largest deposits of recoverable shale gas.  BP
Plc (BP/)  holds the other 60 percent.  Guillermo Baistrocchi, a Pan American Energy spokesman,
wasn’t available to take calls, an assistant said by telephone,
and didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment. Alejandro Di
Lazzaro, a YPF spokesman, declined to comment on whether a shale
partnership would be signed with Bridas or Pan American Energy.
Cnooc’s press department in Beijing didn’t reply to an after-hours call and e-mail seeking comment.  Fernandez, who last month offered oil and gas companies
incentives if they invest at least $1 billion over five years,
is seeking to stem fuel imports that doubled to $9.4 billion in
2011 and are forecast by former Economy Minister Roberto Lavagna
to rise to as much as $15 billion this year.  16% Return  Chevron will invest an initial $1.24 billion as it partners
with YPF in Vaca Muerta, which may hold at least 23 billion
barrels of oil equivalent, a report by independent auditor Ryder
Scott released in February 2012 by YPF showed.  Neuquen’s legislature will likely ratify a decree granting
YPF and Chevron exploration and production rights through 2048,
Luis Sapag, president of the legislature’s energy commission,
said this month. The YPF-Chevron deal includes a 16 percent
return on investment for the companies while granting the
province $8.9 billion in royalties, he said.  Bridas yesterday lost a lawsuit filed in New York seeking
to prevent Repsol from blocking any deal with YPF. Valle said
Repsol is actively lobbying against prospective Vaca Muerta
partnerships. Kristian Rix, a Repsol spokesman, had no immediate
comment when contacted by phone.  Signing up partners to share the financial burden of
developing the formation is essential given YPF has been shut
out of international capital markets because of double-digit
borrowing costs for Argentine issuers, Valle said.  “We have gas for six years, when the ideal is reserves for
10,” he said. “The shale projects will require at least four
or five years to start adding reserves, so the clock is
ticking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  