-- Marian McPartland, Jazz Pianist, Longtime Radio Host, Dies at 95
-- B y   F e l i x   K e s s l e r
-- 2013-08-21T13:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/marian-mcpartland-jazz-pianist-longtime-radio-host-dies-at-95.html
Marian McPartland, the British-born
jazz pianist whose broadcasts on  National Public Radio  for more
than three decades brought insights into the music she loved to
millions of listeners, has died. She was 95.  She died yesterday at her home on  Long Island , New York, of
natural causes, NPR said on its website.  As host of “Marian McPartland’s Piano Jazz,” she
interviewed and played with pianists, backed singers and
musicians including Oscar Peterson, Keith Jarrett, Benny
Goodman,  Norah Jones  and  Elvis Costello . The show, which she
began hosting in 1979, became the longest-running cultural
 program  of its kind on NPR, and she was inducted into the
 National Radio Hall of Fame  in 2007. She stopped hosting the
show in 2010 while continuing as artistic director.  McPartland’s piano duets were “exercises in cooperative
improvisation, in a manner exemplifying the jazz spirit,”
critic Nat Hentoff wrote in the Wall Street Journal in 2008,
marking her 90th birthday.  Margaret Marian Turner was born on March 20, 1918, and grew
up in Bromley,  England , southeast of London, and was playing
piano by ear at age 3. Following a teacher’s advice, she studied
the instrument at  London ’s  Guildhall School of Music & Drama  in
the 1930s. At 20, she left and joined a four-piano vaudeville
act, to the horror of her middle-class parents.  An early boyfriend introduced her to Duke Ellington’s
records, she wrote, “and from then on I was hooked.”  Wartime Entertainment  She was playing jazz when World War II began and joined a
troupe of performers entertaining soldiers in  France . Playing
with various groups for GIs was a valuable experience,
“learning more tunes, how to play more simply behind solos, and
how to keep better time,” she said. “Suddenly jazz records
sounded more meaningful.”  In 1944 she met the American jazz cornet player Jimmy
McPartland, who was in a U.S.O. group after landing in Normandy
with a U.S. Army combat unit.  “She rushed the tempo, this English girl playing jazz,”
he recalled later. “She tried to talk and act GI, but I knew
she was a lady.”  They were married in 1945 in Aachen,  Germany , and played at
their own wedding.  After the war, she performed for a while with McPartland’s
Dixieland Quintet in  Chicago . Their careers and lives diverged
when she heeded bebop’s siren call and headed to  New York  and
the couple divorced.  ‘Three Strikes’  Her first review, from critic  Leonard Feather , began by
noting she had “three strikes against her: she’s English, white
and a woman.”  “Somehow this seemed like an accolade,” she wrote later.
“I liked it when someone would say, ‘You play just like a
man.’” She even liked it if they said, “You play good for a
girl.”  McPartland led a trio at New York’s Hickory House, where
she was hired for a two-week engagement and she stayed eight
years. Ellington and Peterson were among those who sat in on
piano.  Early on, Ellington came up after a set and with a smile
told McPartland, “My dear, you play so many notes.”  It took a while, said McPartland, to realize “he was
telling me that I was playing too many notes that were getting
in the way of what I was trying to say.”  Carlyle Surprise  She had a steady gig at New York’s Carlyle Hotel where she
gave her “old friend and former husband” a surprise 70th
birthday party, jazz critic  Whitney Balliett  reported in the  New
Yorker  in 1977.  “Jimmy put the occasion in focus by saying, ‘I suggest
that all married people get divorced and begin treating each
other like human beings,’ which is exactly what the McPartlands
did seven years ago,” Balliett added. The two remarried shortly
before Jimmy McPartland  died  in 1991.  Over the years, McPartland’s piano playing became “more
thoughtful” even while performing in small rooms where waiters
bustled about serving drinks. When performing with Jimmy
McPartland and others, Balliett wrote, she “proved the truism
that jazz pianists play better in a crowd than by themselves.”  McPartland maintained that pianists need to know a song’s
lyrics to perform it well.  “How can one put feeling and understanding into a piece
without knowing the words?” she wrote.  She began writing for Downbeat magazine in 1949 when she
found herself a spectator at a Paris jazz festival.  ‘Favorite Musicians’  Her 1987  autobiography , “All in Good Time,” included
pieces on Goodman and saxophonist Paul Desmond as well as  Bill
Evans  and Alec Wilder, two of many pianists she interviewed and
played with on her radio program.  McPartland wrote the book in “appreciation of some of my
favorite musicians,” and it offers perceptive insights into
music-making. Approvingly, she quoted Evans’s advice for young
pianists: “It’s much better to spend 30 hours on one tune than
to play 30 tunes in one hour.”  Desmond studied writing at San Francisco State University
before dropping out when he “finally decided that writing was
like playing jazz -- it can be learned but not taught,” she
wrote.  To listeners,  McPartland  confided her love of ballads,
particularly minor-key songs. “If you’re in a group and things
aren’t going well, playing some minor-key tune will bring you
back,” she said.  Modest Artist  She was a champion of women in jazz, singers and
instrumentalists as well as pianists, though quiet about her own
playing. “I know I’m not bad,” she said when pressed, “but
I’m not going to rate myself -- that would be terrible.”  Still, she was proud that pianists whose arms she almost
literally twisted to appear on her NPR show --  Ray Charles , Dave
Brubeck, Keith Jarrett -- finally agreed and enjoyed playing
with her.  McPartland founded Halcyon Records after recording dozens
of albums for other labels. Pianists who then recorded for
Halcyon include  Earl Hines  and Teddy Wilson.  She liked the challenge of improvising jazz duets on her
broadcasts -- though this sometimes made guests leery of coming
on the show. Brubeck resisted for years by saying he was too
nervous. He consented only when his bass player was allowed to
be on hand in the control room if needed.  “So we started the show and he just went at it; you never
knew he was nervous,” McPartland told the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Felix Kessler at  fkessler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  