-- Marketfield Bets on Sensex Fall as India Small Caps Drop
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-08-22T12:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/marketfield-bets-on-sensex-declining-as-india-small-caps-tumble.html
India’s smallest companies are
trailing its biggest corporations by the most since 2008 in the
stock market, feeding pessimism about the central bank’s ability
to boost economic growth from the weakest pace in a decade.  The S&P BSE Small-Cap Index has dropped 29 percent this
year as earnings sank to a record low. The gauge of companies
with a median market value of $68 million lagged behind the
benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  index, where stocks have a median value
of $14 billion, by 23 percentage points. The only other times
small-cap shares trailed this much were during an economic
slowdown in 2004 and the global financial crisis in 2008, when
the Sensex fell at least 12 percent in three months.  Declines in smaller companies from  SKS Microfinance Ltd. (SKSM)  to
 Automotive Axles Ltd. (ATXL) , which get an average 87 percent of their
revenue from domestic sales, reflect concern that the  Reserve
Bank  of India will sacrifice growth to combat a record tumble in
the rupee that threatens to increase consumer prices in a nation
where 800 million people live on less than $2 per day. Policy
makers raised interest rates in July, even as  car sales  sank to
an 11-month low and industrial output contracted.  “In the end, you’d expect the largest companies to get
dragged down,” said  Michael Shaoul , the chairman of New York-based Marketfield Asset Management, whose $13 billion MainStay
Marketfield Fund has outperformed 99 percent of peers tracked by
Bloomberg in the past five years and is betting against Indian
shares. “The catalyst for that may be the currency.”  BRIC Losses  Indian small-cap stocks last trailed the Sensex by this
much during the three months ended March 2008, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The large-company index lost 12 percent within
three months as the global economy slipped into recession. The
small-cap gauge’s underperformance in 2004 preceded a four-quarter economic slowdown in India.  The Sensex rallied 2.3 percent to 18,312.94 at the close in
Mumbai. The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index declined 0.8 percent.  While the Sensex has posted a smaller decline than
benchmark equity indexes in  Brazil ,  Russia  and  China  this year,
the S&P BSE Small-Cap index has trailed similar gauges in the
so-called BRIC markets.  Brazil’s Bovespa has dropped 17 percent during the period,
Russia’s RTS Index is down 14 percent and China’s Shanghai
Composite Index has lost 8.9 percent.  Rupee Tumble  The 29 percent tumble in the BSE Small-Cap gauge compares
with declines of 18 percent in the MSCI Russia Small Cap Index
and 17.6 percent in Brazil’s Bovespa small-cap gauge. China’s
ChiNext index has surged 65 percent.  SKS Microfinance, a Hyderabad-based lender to the poor, and
Automotive Axles, a Mysore-based auto-parts maker, have paced
declines in  India  with losses exceeding 30 percent this year.  The rupee has weakened 15 percent this year and reached a
record low of 65.56 per dollar today. That means dollar-based
investors have lost 20 percent from Sensex shares and 40 percent
from the 458-stock S&P BSE Small-Cap gauge.  India is in danger of entering a “vicious cycle” as the
rupee’s tumble spurs policy makers to drain cash from the
financial system and impose  capital controls  to support the
currency, Shaoul said. That may stifle economic growth and deter
investors, putting further downward pressure on the rupee,
according to Shaoul.  Relative Valuation  The rupee’s decline is boosting revenue at some Sensex
companies, which get an average 33 percent of their sales from
outside India.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , the nation’s
largest software services exporter, rallied to a record on July
19 after reporting profit that beat analyst projections. Smaller
rival  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  surged the most in six months on July 12 as
its sales forecast in dollar terms topped projections.  The Sensex’s valuation has dropped to 2.3 times net assets,
the lowest level since April 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 1.5 times for the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index.  “We are beginning to see value emerge” in India, Jonathan Bell, the head of emerging markets equities at Nomura Asset
Management, which oversees about $287 billion, said in an
interview on Bloomberg TV India. “We are interested in
companies that have global exposure.”  Expensive Onions  Currency weakness spurs inflation in the nation of 1.2
billion people, which imports about 80 percent of its oil. The
country’s consumer inflation rate of 9.64 percent is the second
fastest in the Group of 20 major economies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  A government gauge of prices for onions, a key ingredient
in Indian cuisine, surged 145 percent in July from the same
month a year ago. India’s per-capita gross domestic product of
$1,592 compares with $51,248 in the U.S., according to
International Monetary Fund estimates.  The RBI began tightening monetary policy last month to slow
depreciation in the currency. India’s central bank raised two
 interest rates  on July 15 and restricted lenders’ access to
cash. Policy makers also tightened limits on overseas
investments by local companies and curbed gold imports.  The central bank said Aug. 20 it will seek to limit
increases in borrowing costs by buying long-dated  government
bonds . Yields on 10-year notes rose to 9.48 percent on Aug. 19,
the highest level since 2001. India’s three-month interbank
rate, a benchmark for borrowing costs in the $1.8 trillion
economy, reached a 15-month high of 11.14 percent on Aug. 14.  Slower Growth  “The RBI’s actions of keeping very tight liquidity and
high interest rates have to be very short term,” said Sampath Reddy, the chief investment officer at Bajaj Allianz Life
Insurance Co., which manages about $6 billion. “These measures,
if not reversed soon, will have severe impact on large cap
companies as well as the economy.”  Asia’s third-largest economy may expand 5.5 percent in the
year to March 2014, versus 5 percent in the previous 12-month
period, the weakest pace since 2003, according to central bank
estimates. The 10-year average is about 8 percent. Car sales
have dropped for nine straight months through July, while
industrial production fell 2.2 percent in June.  “We don’t see any improvement in macroeconomic numbers for
next six to nine months,” said Shishir Bajpai, a senior vice
president at IIFL Wealth Management Ltd., which has about $1.8
billion of shares under management and advisory. “Investors
will be less interested in putting money on India.”  Earnings Slump  Combined profits for the 30 companies in the Sensex
increased 1.4 percent in the three months ended June, compared
with an estimated gain of 5.8 percent before the earnings season
began, Bank of America Corp. wrote in an Aug. 19 report.  Trailing 12-month profit in the India small-cap gauge has
tumbled 77 percent during the past year to the lowest level
since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 2006. Earnings at
Automotive Axles sank 38 percent in the June quarter, following
an 87 percent decline in the three months through March, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  HSBC Global Asset Management, which oversees more than $400
billion worldwide, is reconsidering its bullish stance on Indian
equities.  “In India, we have been very, very positive there” Bill Maldonado, the chief investment officer for Asia Pacific at HSBC
Global Asset, said in an interview in  Hong Kong  yesterday.
“We’re really wondering whether we got that wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson51@bloomberg.net  