-- Arsenal Wins 3-0 to Close in on Champions League Group Stage
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-21T22:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/arsenal-beats-fenerbahce-3-0-in-champions-league-playoff-opener.html
Arsenal won 3-0 at Fenerbahce to
close on a 16th consecutive appearance in the group stage of
soccer’s Champions League.  Kieran Gibbs ,  Aaron Ramsey  and Olivier Giroud scored in the
second half last night in Istanbul for Arsenal, which hosts the
second match of the two-game playoff Aug. 27 in  London .  “We played in a very, very heated atmosphere against a
good team but we had a proactive attitude from the first minute
on,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said in a post-match news
conference. “We did not come in shaking but came in resolute
and determined and with a desire to take the game to them.”  Austria Vienna and Basel were also victorious on a night in
which none of the five home teams won. Vienna beat Dinamo Zagreb
2-0 and Basel defeated Ludogorets Razgrad 4-2.  Schalke and PAOK drew 1-1, as did Steaua Bucharest and
Legia Warsaw. Vienna, Basel, PAOK and Legia also will host the
return matches, with the series winners advancing into the group
stage of  Europe ’s elite club competition.  Arsenal rebounded from a 3-1 home loss to  Aston Villa  in
its English Premier League opener five days ago with a
dominating second-half performance.  The Gunners broke through six minutes after the break as
Ramsey slid a pass into the penalty area for Theo Walcott. The
winger sent a sent a low cross toward the far post, which Gibbs
put into the roof of the net.  Ramsey doubled the lead in the 64th minute with a low shot
from 25 yards out (22 meters), which goalkeeper Volkan Demirel
could only get a hand to. Giroud then closed the scoring from
the penalty spot with 13 minutes remaining after Walcott was
taken down by Michal Kadlec.  Arsenal has won all five of its previous  Champions League 
playoff series, outscoring its opponents 24-3 in the 10 matches.  Basel Wins  Mohamed Salah scored twice to lead Basel past Ludogorets in
Sofia,  Bulgaria . Giovanni Sio and Fabian Schar also scored for
Basel. Marcelinho and Ivan Stoyanov got goals for Ludogorets,
which had Junior Caicara red-carded in the 83rd minute.  Marin Leovac and Marko Stankovic scored seven minutes apart
in the second half to give Austria Vienna the win in Zagreb.
Dinamo played the final 19 minutes a man down after Ante
Rukavina was shown a red card for a high challenge seconds after
coming on as a substitute.  Miroslav Stoch’s goal in the 73rd minute gave PAOK the away
draw in  Germany  with Schalke, which got a first-half score from
Jefferson Farfan. PAOK is in the playoff after Metalist Kharkiv,
which beat the Greek club in the previous round, was last week
disqualified by European soccer governing body UEFA for its link
to a match-fixing case.  Legia Warsaw also scored in the second half to claim an
away draw in Bucharest. Federico Piovaccari gave 1986 European
champion Steaua the lead in the 34th minute before Jakub Kosecki
answered for Legia eight minutes into the second half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 