-- Stocks Climb With Metals on Factory Data as Dollar Gains
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-08-22T21:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/asian-index-futures-slip-on-taper-outlook-as-dollar-gains.html
Stocks and metals gained on data
showing improvement in manufacturing and the U.S. labor market
amid a three-hour trading halt on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The
dollar rose as signs of an improving global economy increased
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.9 percent to
1,656.96 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The Nasdaq Composite Index rose
1.1 percent to 3,638.71 after trading resumed following a
computer error. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index climbed 1 percent.
Copper jumped 0.7 percent to pace gains in commodities. The
yield on 10-year Treasuries was little changed after reaching a
two-year high. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index added 0.2 percent
after a 0.6 percent advance yesterday.  Economic reports showed Germany led growth in manufacturing
and services in the euro area, while a gauge for  China ’s factory
output unexpectedly indicated expansion. The fewest workers in
more than five years applied for U.S. jobless benefits over the
past month, indicating the labor market continues to improve,
and an index of leading indicators rose in July by the most in
three months.  “We’re seeing better economic data out of Europe and
China, with several positive surprises,” Thomas Haerter, who
helps oversee about $54 billion as chief strategist at
Swisscanto Asset Management AG in Zurich, said in a telephone
interview today. “Getting better-than-forecast numbers out of
Europe is even more positive for stocks than better-than-forecast data out of the U.S., as the growth problem is mainly
in Europe.”  Trading Halt  Computer errors shook American equity markets again as
malfunctioning software that feeds data between exchanges
prompted  Nasdaq  to halt trading in stocks and options. The
Nasdaq Composite rose 0.9 percent to 3,631.17 before it stopped
at around 12:20 p.m.  Buying and selling in many of the country’s most heavily
traded shares from Apple Inc. to  Intel Corp . and Facebook Inc.
ground to a virtual halt as brokers were unable to execute
orders until trading resumed at 3:25 p.m.  The disruption, coming two days after options markets were
roiled by mistaken trades sent by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., is
the latest in a series of computer malfunctions that have raised
questions about the reliability of electronic markets.  “It’s a big deal for the Nasdaq, but it wasn’t as
impactful on the market as you would expect,”  Douglas Kass , the
founder of Palm Beach, Florida-based Seabreeze Partners
Management Inc., said in a phone interview. “There’ll be some
residual loss of confidence on the part of retail investors but
beyond that I don’t think it’ll have impact.”  The halt resulted in the second-fewest number of shares
changing hands on U.S. exchanges in at least five years during a
full-day session, excluding holiday trading. About 4.4 billion
shares traded today, 30 percent below the three-month average.  Fed Minutes  The  S&P 500  fell 0.6 percent yesterday to the lowest level
since July 8 and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  declined for a
sixth day, the longest losing streak in 13 months, after the
release of minutes from the Fed’s latest meeting. The report
showed policy makers were “comfortable” with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plans to start reducing bond buying this year should
the  U.S. economy  improve. Fed stimulus helped push the S&P 500
up as much as 153 percent from its March 2009 low.  The number of jobless claims in the month ended Aug. 17
declined to 330,500 a week on average, the least since November
2007, Labor Department figures showed today. Compared with a
week earlier, claims rose by 13,000 to 336,000, in line with the
median forecast of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.6 percent after no change the
prior month, the New York-based group said today. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists called for a 0.5
percent advance.  Homebuilders Rise  A gauge of homebuilders added 1.9 percent after a report
showed U.S. house prices rose in June. Newmont Mining Corp. and
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. advanced more than 1 percent
as copper rose. Yahoo Inc. climbed 3.1 percent after data showed
it attracted more U.S. visitors than Google Inc. in July.
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  dropped 12 percent as the world’s second-biggest maker of personal computers issued a forecast for fiscal
fourth-quarter profit that missed some estimates.  More than five shares advanced for every one that declined
in the Stoxx 600, which rebounded 1 percent from a three-week
low. Royal Ahold NV rallied 5.2 percent after the Dutch owner of
the Stop & Shop supermarket chain reported second-quarter
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  Europe’s Economy  Euro-area services expanded in August for the first time in
19 months, led by Germany, and manufacturing gained for a second
month, London-based Markit Economics said today.  “We are probably either at or just past the mid-point of
the economic cycle,” Ashish Misra, who helps oversee $17
billion as head of investment policy and research for Lloyds TSB
Private Banking in  London , said in a phone interview. “The
negative influence of rising  interest rates  will be, or is
being, offset by the positive influence of the reasons behind
the rise in interest rates.”  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.2 percent, extending
its six-day slump to 4.7 percent. The Philippine Stock Exchange
Index tumbled 6 percent as trading resumed after a three-day
closure. The Jakarta Composite Index dropped 1.1 percent,
declining 20 percent from a record-high three months ago.
Benchmark gauges in  Turkey ,  Malaysia  and  South Korea  declined at
least 1 percent. India’s Sensex rose 2.3 percent after a four-day 7.6 percent slump sent the gauge to an 11-month low.  China Manufacturing  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  advanced 1.1 percent while the Shanghai
Composite Index slipped 0.3 percent. A purchasing managers’
index of preliminary China manufacturing data unexpectedly rose
to 50.1 for August, from 47.7 in July, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. That compares with a 48.2
median estimate by 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. A reading
above 50 indicates an expansion.  India’s rupee and the Turkish lira slumped to all-time
lows. The rupee dropped 0.9 percent to 64.63 against the dollar,
after reaching 65.56, and the lira slipped as much as 0.9
percent to $1.9959. Thailand’s baht and the Malaysian ringgit
dropped to three-year lows.  South Africa’s rand gained 1.1 percent and Australia’s
dollar jumped 0.4 percent after the Chinese manufacturing report
boosted trade prospects.  Norway, Sweden  Norway’s krone weakened for an eighth consecutive day
against its Swedish counterpart, sliding as much as 1.2 percent
to 1.0673 kronor, the weakest level since March 2004. Sweden’s
currency gained against 14 of its 16 main counterparts after a
report showed unemployment unexpectedly fell last month.  The euro was little changed at $1.3357 while the yen
weakened 1.1 percent to 98.72 per dollar.  Treasury 10-year note yields fell one basis point to 2.89
percent after climbing eight basis points yesterday. The rate
reached 2.93 percent, the most since July 2011. German bonds
fell for a second day, sending 10-year yields up five basis
points to 1.92 percent.  Gold futures rose for the second time in three days,
gaining 0.1 percent, on speculation that demand for jewelry and
bars will increase amid signs of a pickup in the economy in
China, the world’s second-biggest consumer of the metal.  Copper rose 0.7 percent to $3.3345 a pound on the Comex in
New York. China is the biggest buyer of copper, followed by the
U.S. and Germany.  West Texas Intermediate oil advanced from a two-week low,
gaining 1.1 percent to $105.03 a barrel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  