-- Asian Stocks Decline for Fifth Day Ahead of Fed Minutes
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-08-21T08:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/asian-stocks-decline-for-fifth-day-ahead-of-fed-minutes.html
Asia ’s benchmark  stock  index fell
for a fifth day to trade at the lowest level in six weeks before
the release of minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s July meeting.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  sank 2.2 percent in Sydney after the
world’s biggest mining company reported a drop in second-half
profit amid slowing growth in emerging economies.  Tokyo  Electric
Power Co. tumbled 9.3 percent after  Japan ’s Nuclear Regulation
Authority said it plans to increase the severity level of a
radiated water leak at its Fukushima plant.  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  surged
4.9 percent in Hong Kong after  China ’s largest offshore oil and
gas explorer posted a bigger-than-estimated increase in first-half profit.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.6 percent to 130.76
as of 4:10 p.m. in Hong Kong, with all 10 industry groups on the
gauge falling. The measure fell 3.3 percent in the past four
days to the lowest closing level since July 9.  “The Fed is talking about tapering because the economy is
getting better,” Mark Lister, Wellington-based head of private
wealth research at Craigs Investment Partners Ltd., said by
telephone. “We’re seeing some signs of life come out of the
U.S. and you can’t lose sight of the fact that’s positive and
encouraging. In the short-term, markets will continue to grapple
with this unknown scenario.”  Japan’s Topix index fell 0.3 percent, while South Korea’s
Kospi index lost 1.1 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose
0.4 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index advanced 1 percent.
Singapore’s Straits Times Index slipped 0.6 percent.  Hong Kong ’s
Hang Seng Index dropped 0.7 percent and China’s Shanghai
Composite gained less than 0.1 percent. Taiwan’s market was
closed due to a tropical storm.  Fed Concern  The Asia-Pacific measure gained 1.7 percent this year
through yesterday,  lagging  a 16 percent surge in the S&P 500 as
growth slows in China and speculation that the Fed will curb
bond buying spurred investors to sell assets across Asia and
 emerging markets . Investors will be watching the release of the
Federal Open Market Committee’s July meeting minutes today for
hints as to when the stimulus withdrawal will begin.  The MSCI Asia Pacific gauge traded yesterday at 12.8 times
estimated earnings compared with 15 for the  S&P 500  and 13.8
times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Japan’s Topix gained 30 percent this year, the world’s
best-performing developed equity market, amid optimism Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe will push through reforms while the central
bank provides record stimulus to spur an economic recovery. The
market’s relative performance has lagged in the past three
months, with the Topix dropping about 12 percent from its May 22
close, which was the highest since 2008.  Radioactive Leak  Shares extended declines and the yen rose after Japan’s
Nuclear Regulation Authority said it plans to raise the severity
level of Tokyo Electric Power’s leak of radioactive water from a
storage tank at the Fukushima nuclear plant to level three from
one on a seven-step scale. Tepco, as the utility is known,
tumbled 9.3 percent to 557 yen.  Mobile gaming companies  Gree Inc. (3632)  lost 6.8 percent to 842
yen and DeNA Co. declined 7.2 percent to 1,968 yen in Tokyo as
the Nikkei newspaper reported Sega Corp. is among 15 companies
forming a marketing group to bypass mobile platforms.  Emerging market stocks were roiled this week amid concern
capital outflows will accelerate. Foreign investors yesterday
sold a net $359 million of Thai stocks, the third-highest amount
in a decade, according to stock exchange data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Thailand, Indonesia  Thailand ’s SET Index dropped 0.7 percent today, on course
for the lowest closing level since Dec. 17.  Indonesia ’s Jakarta
Composite Index rose 1.5 percent, recouping some of yesterday’s
3.2 percent decline, when the index extended to 20 percent a
retreat from this year’s peak.  Emerging markets from  Brazil  to Indonesia have raised
borrowing costs in 2013 to try to aid their currencies as the
prospect of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus curbs demand for
assets in developing nations.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 0.2 percent
today. The measure rose 0.4 percent yesterday, snapping a four-day losing streak, after retailers’ results surpassed estimates.  Fletcher Building Ltd. surged 6.2 percent to NZ$8.72 in
Wellington as earnings at New Zealand’s biggest construction
company topped estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  