-- ASR Sets Up $1.2 Billion Fund to Sell Dutch Rental Home Assets
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-08-21T12:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/asr-sets-up-1-2-billion-fund-to-sell-dutch-rental-home-assets.html
ASR Nederland NV, the third-largest
Dutch insurer, set up a fund to sell some of its 855 million
euros ($1.2 billion) of Dutch residential rental properties as
the company cuts its holdings of less-liquid assets.  “The Dutch housing market, and the rental market in
particular, is not unattractive and we are seeing interest from
investors,” Roel Wijmenga, chief financial officer at the
Utrecht, Netherlands-based company, said in an interview today.
“A fund has been set up internally” and a first tranche could
be sold soon, he said.  ASR’s real estate holdings amount to about 3 billion euros
($4 billion), or about 10 percent of total investments, the
company said in a presentation. Besides apartments and family
houses, the portfolio includes 754 million euros of stores and
shopping centers and 962 million euros of rural properties. ASR
has owned real estate assets directly for more than 100 years,
according to its website.  The firm doesn’t plan to expand its holdings of  apartments
and homes  even though prices have dropped more than 20 percent
since 2008.  “While it’s a solid portfolio that offers nice returns,
especially in a low-interest rate environment, real estate is
less liquid than equities for instance,” Wijmenga said. “That
limits the amount you can have on your balance sheet.”  Solvency OK  The property sales aren’t about boosting the company’s
solvency ratio, which is solid, Wijmenga said. The ratio, a
measure of an insurer’s ability to absorb losses, stood at 283
percent at the end of June, the company said in a statement
today. That is more than twice the minimum level required by the
Dutch central bank.  “The fund exists and we’re technically ready,” Wijmenga
said. Investors may stand to benefit from housing-market reforms
planned by the Dutch government.  “It looks like the rental market will have to be
liberalized and housing associations will have to return to
providing affordable housing, while consumers are more hesitant
to buy,” said Wijmenga.  The company earlier sold parts of its stores and shopping
centers through its Dutch Prime Retail fund, with more than 1.2
billion euros in assets. The fund has an expected return of 7
percent to 9 percent, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  