-- Assured Guaranty, JPMorgan Agree to End Mortgage Suits
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-08-21T20:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/assured-guaranty-jpmorgan-agree-to-end-mortgage-suits.html
Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  agreed to settle lawsuits filed by the bond insurer
accusing the bank’s EMC Mortgage and Bear Stearns units of
making misrepresentations about mortgage-backed securities.  Assured Guaranty Corp., a New York-based unit of the
Hamilton, Bermuda-based bond insurer, sued EMC, J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank NA in state and federal
court in New York starting in 2010, alleging violations of
representations and warranties in connection with three
residential mortgage-backed securities transactions.  JPMorgan and Assured reached an agreement resolving the
claims this month, according to a  filing  with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission dated Aug. 9. Terms of the
settlement weren’t disclosed in the filing.  Assured still has similar suits pending against other
lenders, including Deutsche Bank AG,  Germany ’s biggest lender,
and Credit Suisse AG, Switzerland’s largest bank, according to
its SEC filing.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Ashweeta Durani, a spokeswoman for Assured Guaranty in New
York, said in a telephone interview that she couldn’t comment
beyond the regulatory filing.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman
for New York-based JPMorgan, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The state court case is Assured Guaranty Corp. v. EMC
Mortgage LLC, 650805/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County ( Manhattan .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  