-- ASX Profit Climbs as Trading Volumes Rise With Equity Markets
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-08-21T23:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/asx-profit-climbs-as-trading-volumes-rise-with-equity-markets.html
ASX Ltd. (ASX) , the operator of
Australia’s main stock exchange, posted a 2.7 percent increase
in full-year profit after trading volumes climbed.  Net income in the 12 months to June 30 rose to A$348.2
million ($312.7 million) from A$339.2 million a year earlier,
the Sydney-based company said in a statement today. That was in
line with the A$348.8 million median estimate of four analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Trading volumes of equity derivatives and
interest-rate futures increased.  ASX Chief Executive Officer Elmer Funke Kupper has expanded
the exchange’s over-the-counter clearing service for  interest-rate swaps , raising A$553 million this year to comply with new
regulations for operators into European markets. Equity trading
volumes were buoyed by a 17 percent surge in  Australia ’s S&P/ASX
200 Index in the year through June 30, even as competition grew
from Chi-X Australia Pty and dark-pool operators, which don’t
publicly display prices until after the transaction has taken
place.  “The global economy was generally more stable,” Funke
Kupper said in a statement. “This flowed through to improving
activity levels in Australia’s financial markets as the year
progressed.”  ASX gained 16 percent this year through yesterday, giving
the company a market capitalization of A$6.9 billion. The
Bloomberg World Exchanges Index gained 15 percent this year
through yesterday.  Monopoly Victory  The Australian bourse won its battle in February to
maintain a monopoly in the clearing and settlement of equity
trades for at least the next two years. Clearers act as central
counterparties in derivatives contracts to dilute the risk of
default. Derivatives last year comprised 32 percent of ASX
sales, the largest component.  The Group of 20 nations has ordered a global overhaul of
rules governing derivatives contracts, mandating the use of
central-clearing parties by traders. Regulators have sought
tougher rules for over-the-counter derivatives since the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the rescue of
American International Group Inc., two of the largest traders of
credit-default swaps.  Since the Australian exchange operator had a $8.3 billion
merger with  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  vetoed by the government in
2011, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd. took over the London
Metal Exchange and the Japan Exchange Group Inc. was formed from
a merger of rivals in  Tokyo  and  Osaka . Regulators approved
IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s bid for NYSE Euronext in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  