-- Latam Air Falls in Chile After Wider-Than-Forecast Loss
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-08-21T16:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/latam-air-falls-in-chile-after-wider-than-forecast-loss.html
Latam Airlines Group SA (LFL) ,  Latin
America ’s largest carrier by sales, fell the most in two years
after the company reported a wider-than-forecast quarterly loss
as a plunging Brazilian currency crimped revenue.  The airline’s  shares  retreated 5.2 percent to 6,265 pesos
at 12:43 p.m. in Santiago. A close at that level would be the
steepest one-day drop since September 2011. The stock was the
biggest lower today on  Chile ’s benchmark IPSA index, which fell
1.5 percent.  The Santiago-based airline, formed by Lan Airlines SA’s
2012 takeover of  Brazil ’s TAM SA, lost $330 million in the
second quarter, triple the average $95.6 million loss  estimate 
of six analysts, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. Latam said
in a regulatory filing that the loss was exacerbated by a
plunging Brazilian real, which accounts for 34 percent of
revenue. The currency sank 9.4 percent in the period, the most
in  emerging markets .  “We can’t rule out negative pressure on the shares as
operating and net income results were below our own and market
estimates,” Santiago-based brokerage BICE Inversiones wrote in
an e-mailed note today.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization
and rentals were $383 million, compared with BICE’s forecast for
$418 million, according to the note.  Latam also said it’s restating 2012 earnings, reducing net
income for the year by $30 million, after discovering accounting
and tax errors in TAM’s results. The airline previously had
reported net income of $11 million for last year, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Reduced Expansion  The airline said it will reduce fleet-expansion plans for
the 2013 to 2015 period by $1.1 billion, or 22 aircraft, citing
changes in regional macroeconomic conditions.  Argentina  ordered
the return of a hangar Latam uses for maintenance and support at
the Aeroparque airport in  Buenos Aires .  “Latam will evaluate every measure to defend its rights,”
Roberto Alvo, Latam’s vice president for strategic planning,
said in a conference call today to discuss results. “This event
is in line with an increasing level of actions against the
company by the government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  