-- Vettel Extends F-1 Series Lead as Teammate Webber Is Penalized
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-09-22T22:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/australia-reaches-112-1-on-first-day-of-last-ashes-cricket-test.html
Sebastian Vettel of Red Bull won
the Singapore Grand Prix to secure his third straight victory
and extend his lead in the Formula One drivers’ championship.  Ferrari’s Fernando Alonso was second and Kimi Raikkonen of
Lotus third in last night’s race at the Marina Bay street
circuit. Vettel’s 32.6-second winning margin, watched by a crowd
including David Beckham and singer Tom Jones, was the largest so
far this season.  The victory put Vettel, who’s seeking his fourth straight
driver’s title, 60 points clear of Alonso atop the standings
with 150 points available from the remaining six races.  “Obviously we’re in a very good position, very strong
position but I’m enjoying the moment,” Vettel said in a news
conference. “I love racing and the car’s fantastic and it
doesn’t happen by accident. Days like this it’s just a pleasure
to be in the car.”  Fellow Red Bull driver Mark Webber failed to finish after a
burning engine ended his chances on the final lap. Officials
later reprimanded him for collecting a lift back to the pits on
the side of Alonso’s car during the Spaniard’s warm-down lap.
Webber’s third sanction of the season means the Australian will
serve a 10-place grid penalty in his next race.  Webber was punished for having entered the track on foot
without the permission of marshals. Alonso also was reprimanded
for driving “in a manner which could be deemed potentially
dangerous to other drivers or any other person.”  Pole Position  After starting in pole position, Vettel briefly lost the
lead to Nico Rosberg, though regained it after the Mercedes
driver ran wide on the second corner. From that point on Vettel
controlled the race, building a gap of almost six seconds after
just three laps.  The safety car was deployed on lap 25 after Daniel
Ricciardo of Toro Rosso crashed into barriers. The race re-started after six laps and Vettel immediately started to rebuild
his advantage over the rest of the field.  Red Bull Team Principal Christian Horner said the 61-lap
victory was one of Vettel’s best drives.  “He’s only just 26,” Horner said of Vettel. “The
talent’s always been there and as he gets more experience he
continues to improve.”  Spain’s Alonso, who started seventh on the grid, surged up
to third within two corners and was able to claim the runner-up
spot by taking an earlier pit stop than his rivals.  “It tastes like a victory for us,” Alonso said. “It was
a risky move, we had nothing to lose.”  ‘Killing the Show’  Lotus Team Principal Eric Boullier, speaking to Sky Sports
after the race, said Vettel and Red Bull’s wins are becoming
predictable.  “I don’t think there’s any point trying to catch this
car,” Boullier said. “It’s a bit killing the show.”  Vettel, who was again jeered by fans during an interview
after the podium ceremony, said that the Singapore Grand Prix is
one of the toughest races of the year.  “The start was quite hairy,” said Vettel, who was booed
earlier this month after winning in  Italy . “After the safety
car came out, the car was incredible. It was incredible to drive
it around this crazy track.”  Vettel’s 33rd Grand Prix victory took him above Alonso into
fourth place on the list of career wins. The defending world
champion has won seven of this season’s 13 races.  Rosberg finished fourth ahead of Mercedes teammate Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari’s Felipe Massa and McLaren pair Jenson Button
and Sergio Perez.  Nico Hulkenberg  of Sauber and Adrian Sutil of
 Force India  rounded off the top-10 scoring positions.  Vettel has 247 points atop the drivers’ standings, ahead of
Alonso on 187, Hamilton (151), Raikkonen (149) and Webber (130).  Red Bull leads the constructors’ championship with 377
points ahead of Ferrari (274), Mercedes (267) and Lotus (206).  The next race is Oct. 6 in South Korea, and the season ends
in Sao Paulo on Nov. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried in London at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  