-- Maybank Posts Record Quarterly Profit With Southeast Asia Growth
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-08-21T06:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/maybank-posts-record-quarterly-profit-with-southeast-asia-growth.html
Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) , Malaysia’s
biggest lender, said second-quarter profit increased nine
percent, driven by higher lending and broking income as
Southeast Asia’s economies continued to grow.  Net income  climbed to a record 1.57 billion ringgit ($477
million), or 18.2 sen per share in the three months ended June
30 from 1.44 billion ringgit, or 18.7 sen per share a year
earlier, the lender, also known as Maybank, said in a stock
exchange filing today. The Kuala Lumpur-based bank proposed a
dividend of 22.5 sen per share, down from 32 sen a year ago.  Private sector spending has gained momentum since
Malaysia’s May general election and growth should accelerate in
the second half, Abdul Wahid Omar, the minister in the Prime
Minister’s Department in charge of economic planning, said in an
interview yesterday.  Southeast Asia ’s third-biggest economy
probably climbed 4.7 percent last quarter from a year earlier,
according to Bloomberg survey of economists. The government
plans to release growth data later today.  “Our results have been strong due to our well-diversified
portfolio and continuing focus to improve performance despite
the challenging external environment,” Megat Zaharuddin Megat
Mohd Nor, Maybank’s chairman, told reporters in the capital
today. “We are confident we can further solidify this
position.”  New CEO  Net interest income, or revenue from borrowers after
deducting interest paid to depositors, gained 3.1 percent to
2.36 billion ringgit in the second quarter, Maybank said. Non-interest income gained 27 percent to 1.75 billion ringgit, while
profit from Islamic banking increased 18 percent to 666.1
million ringgit.  Maybank promoted Abdul Farid Alias to be chief executive
officer this month after Abdul Wahid was recruited by Prime
Minister Najib Razak to become a minister.  He’s been tasked with helping the lender accelerate
expansion beyond  Malaysia  as it seeks a presence in all 10
Southeast Asian countries by 2015. Maybank has options to set up
a commercial bank in  Thailand , Abdul Farid told reporters in
Kuala Lumpur today.  “We are not rushing to make any decision at this moment,”
he said.  Shares of Maybank rose 0.2 percent at the midday break
ahead of earnings in Kuala Lumpur and have jumped 8.5 percent
this year, compared with a 3.3 percent gain in the  benchmark 
FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index.  Maybank took a controlling stake in  PT Bank Internasional
Indonesia (BNII)  in 2008 and Singapore brokerage Kim Eng Holdings Ltd.
in 2011. The lender said it generates more than 90 percent of
its profits from Malaysia, Singapore and  Indonesia .  “Our aim moving forward is to target growth areas that can
provide us greater earnings upside,” Abdul Farid said in a
separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  