-- Haywood Securities Hires Tsubouchi to Head Investment Bank
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-08-21T15:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/haywood-securities-hires-tsubouchi-to-head-investment-banking.html
Haywood Securities Inc. hired Dan Tsubouchi from  GMP Capital Inc. (GMP)  to head  investment banking  as
part of its new energy capital markets team.  The brokerage also hired Jeff Reymer from  National Bank of
Canada (NA)  as managing director of global energy investment banking,
Vancouver-based Haywood said in a statement. Tsubouchi was most
recently co-head of investment banking at GMP.  The new hires, effective today, follow Haywood Chief
Executive Officer Rob Blanchard’s announcement last week that
the firm cut 20 jobs, or about 7 percent of its headcount, amid
a slowdown in Canada’s commodities sector.  The unit will focus on domestic energy companies and
Canadian-based international oil and gas firms, it said in
today’s statement.  The new additions “will provide our firm with the
strength, experience and depth to elevate our capabilities in
this dynamic sector,” Blanchard said in the statement.  North American oil and gas deals, including shale assets,
plunged 52 percent to $26 billion in the first six months of the
year from $54 billion in the year-ago period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Haywood said it hopes to counter the
crimping effects of the slowdown by competing for deals in
Calgary, the heart of  Canada ’s energy industry.  “Oil and gas has not been the shiniest part of our
industry,” John Tognetti, Haywood’s chairman, said in a phone
interview today. “Whether the market is good or not, when there
are good people available, you have to make the sacrifice and
the attempt to bring them on. These guys are going to ferret out
a lot of good opportunities and bring in a lot of good clients.
This is a game changer.”  The new group also includes energy research analyst Darrell Bishop, and Michael Dilay who will focus on sales and trading,
Haywood said.  Haywood, a closely-held firm founded in 1981, employs about
275 people with offices in Calgary and Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  