-- Bard Settles Vaginal-Mesh Case After $2 Million Verdict
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-08-21T17:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/bard-settles-vaginal-mesh-case-after-2-million-verdict.html
C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR)  agreed to settle a
woman’s claims that its vaginal-mesh implants caused her
injuries as the second federal trial of lawsuits over the
devices was about to begin in West Virginia.  Attorneys for Wanda Queen of  North Carolina  notified a
judge in Charleston, West Virginia, today that they had settled
her claims that Bard’s  Avaulta  insert caused pain and forced her
to have six surgeries. The settlement comes a week after another
West Virginia jury ordered Bard to pay $2 million in damages in
a separate suit involving the product.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed. Scott Lowry, a
Bard spokesman, said today’s accord covered only Queen’s claims
and wasn’t part of a larger resolution of thousands of others
that are pending.  “This is a large, complex litigation and Bard will
consider each case based on the facts and merits,” Lowry said
in an e-mailed statement. “We will continue to vigorously
defend against all other lawsuits involving Avaulta.”  Bard, based in Murray Hill,  New Jersey , faces more than
8,000 claims over Avaulta, which women allege can cause organ
damage and make sexual intercourse painful when the devices
erode.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Endo Health Solutions Inc. (ENDP)  and  Boston
Scientific Corp. (BSX)  face similar claims that their implants,
threaded in place through vaginal incisions, shrink over time.  The implant cases against Bard and other manufacturers have
been consolidated before U.S. District Judge Joseph Goodwin in
Charleston for pretrial information exchanges. Two other trials
are set for October, according to court dockets.  The Bard consolidated cases are In re C.R. Bard Inc. Pelvic
Repair System Products Liability Litigation, 10-md-02187.
Queen’s case is Queen v. C.R. Bard Inc., 11-cv-00012, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  West Virginia  (Charleston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  