-- Basmati Exports From India Seen at Record on Iran Demand
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-08-22T05:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/basmati-exports-from-india-seen-at-record-on-iran-demand.html
Shipments of basmati rice from
 India , the world’s largest producer of the aromatic grain, may
surge to a record as Iran pays a premium to secure supplies amid
international trade sanctions, an industry group said.  Sales may rise 10 percent to 3.8 million metric tons in the
year that began on April 1 from a year earlier, said R.S.
Seshadri, general secretary of the All India Rice Exporters
Association. Sales jumped 25 percent to 1.5 million tons in the
four months through July from a year earlier, data from the
association showed.  Export prices of the variety used in dishes including
biryani and pilaf rallied 44 percent in the past year,
potentially boosting earnings at shippers such as  KRBL Ltd. (KRB) , LT
Foods Ltd. and  Kohinoor Foods Ltd. (KFL)  Farmers in the foothills of
the Himalayas have increased planting as the crop fetches more
than double the rate of traditional varieties, Seshadri said.
India also ships tea, sugar, steel and chemicals to Iran and
bilateral trade between the two countries was $15.97 billion in
2011-2012, according to the Commerce Ministry.  “Prices rose because of demand from Iran, which has got
India as a reliable supplier after the sanctions,” Seshadri
said in a phone interview yesterday. “Farmers have raised the
area under basmati crop as they know that the returns will be
higher than other cereal crops.”  Financial Sanctions  Traders contracted to export basmati rice to  Iran  at an
average $1,659 a ton in July, data from the association showed.
The average export price was $1,300 a ton for 2012-2013 crop
compared with $900 a ton a year earlier, he said. Iran is
India’s biggest buyer of basmati rice.  Exporters registered to ship 602,000 tons to Iran between
April and July this year, according to the data from the state-run Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development
Authority, or  Apeda . Contracts need to be registered with the
authority before shipment.  Iran has been hit by financial and trade sanctions over its
nuclear program that have curbed oil exports, restricted access
to foreign currencies and weakened the rial. The government
provides U.S. dollars at a preferential rate to importers of
some staple goods, including meat, cooking oil and sugar.  Exporters faced no difficulties in getting paid for
shipments to Iran because of a government-to-government payment
mechanism, Seshadri said. India controls 65 percent of the
overseas basmati rice market, while the only other producer
Pakistan accounts for the rest, according to Apeda.  Saudi Arabia 
and Iran are two major buyers of Indian basmati, while the U.S.,
 Europe  and  Africa  also purchase the grain.  Profit Boost  “The companies in the rice export business will see higher
profits if the situation continues the way it is,” said Faiyaz Hudani, an associate vice president at Kotak Commodity Services
Ltd. in Mumbai.  Shares of KRBL rose as much as 0.6 percent to 23.65 rupees,
while Kohinoor Foods climbed 2.4 percent to 31.45 rupees and  LT
Foods (LTFO)  increased as much as 4.5 percent to 73.85 rupees in Mumbai
today.  A plunge in India’s rupee to a record also boosted
shipments, Vijay Setia, a former president of the exporters’
group said in a phone interview. Sales may climb to as much as 4
million tons this year because of weak rupee, he said.  “Exporters have been benefiting since June because of the
weak rupee and Indian exports have been growing at a faster
rate,” he said. “In future deals buyers may get a chance to
renegotiate on prices depending the rupee.”  The rupee tumbled about 16 percent in the past six months
to on concern that capital outflow from  emerging markets  will
increase as the U.S. prepares to pare stimulus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  