-- BoCom Profit Grows as Bank Boosts Fees, Writes Off Bad Loans
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-22T02:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/bocom-second-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-as-fee-income-surges.html
Bank of Communications Co. , the
Chinese lender part-owned by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , reported a 13
percent increase in second-quarter profit as fee income surged
and the bank wrote off bad loans.  Net income at the nation’s fifth-largest lender by market
value climbed to 17.1 billion  yuan  ($2.8 billion) from 15.2
billion yuan a year earlier, based on figures announced
yesterday by the Shanghai-based lender known as BoCom. That
compares with the 16.6 billion-yuan median estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The bank bucked the trend of a slowdown in profit growth at
smaller  Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co. (600000)  and Industrial Bank
Co. even as its lending margin contracted. BoCom wrote off 4.8
billion yuan of soured debt in the first half, limiting the
increase in the value of nonperforming loans to 3 percent in the
second quarter, according to Citigroup Inc. analyst Simon Ho.  “This is a low quality result because a huge write-off of
NPLs masked the sizable pickup in NPL formation,” Ho wrote in a
note. The outperformance compared with estimates came “mainly
from non-interest income and provisions,” he wrote.  Nonperforming loans rose to 31.7 billion yuan as of June
30, compared with 30.74 billion yuan in March, BoCom said in
yesterday’s statement.  BoCom  shares  fell 0.8 percent as of 10 a.m. in Hong Kong
today, extending this year’s loss to 11 percent. Hong Kong’s
benchmark Hang Seng Index slipped 0.1 percent today.  Slower Growth  Profit growth is easing at some Chinese banks as loan
demand slows in an economy forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg
survey to grow 7.5 percent this year, almost half 2007’s 14.2
percent pace. BoCom’s full-year earnings may increase by about 5
percent, a third of the growth rate in 2012, according to the
average of analyst estimates in a Bloomberg  survey .  Hong Kong-listed  Chinese banks  may report average second-quarter profit growth of 8 percent, down from 11.5 percent in
the first three months, Sanjay Jain, a Credit Suisse analyst,
forecast in a note on July 30. There is “potential for further
deceleration” of profit in the second half of the year,
according to the note.  Industrial Bank’s second-quarter net income increased 21
percent from a year earlier, slower than a 32 percent expansion
in the first quarter,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. Shanghai
Pudong’s profit growth declined to 12.7 percent in the second
quarter from 12.8 percent in the January-to-March period.  Margin Shrinks  In the first half, BoCom’s profit rose 12 percent to 34.8
billion yuan, according to yesterday’s statement. The bank’s net
interest margin, an indicator of lending profitability,
contracted 5 basis points to 2.56 percent after the central bank
cut benchmark interest rates twice in 2012.  “Profits at BoCom grew more than expected as its lending
margin wasn’t squeezed as much as other banks,” Rainy Yuan, a
Shanghai-based analyst at  Masterlink Securities Corp. (2856) , said by
phone. “Fee income also showed a strong increase.”  BoCom’s fee income from selling services such as wealth
management products, credit cards and insurance jumped 30
percent to 7 billion yuan. Its net interest income from lending
rose 11 percent to 33 billion yuan in the second quarter,
helping net income growth outpace its 12 percent expansion in
the three months to March.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  