-- HTC Bargain Seen Luring Bids From Lenovo, ZTE: Real M&A
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-21T00:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/htc-bargain-seen-luring-bids-from-lenovo-to-zte-real-m-a.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  has never been cheaper for
buyers attracted to the smartphone maker’s hardware and
engineering prowess.  After peaking in 2011, HTC’s stock has  plunged  88 percent
as the Taiwanese company lost market share to industry leaders
Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc. Now, Chinese vendors
including  ZTE Corp. (000063) ,  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  and Huawei Technologies
Co. could zero in on the $4.2 billion company as a takeover
target to help them gain technological know-how and a still
well-regarded and recognized brand as they expand in mobile
devices, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “They continue to produce the best phones of the
industry,”  Pierre Ferragu , an analyst at Bernstein in  London ,
said of HTC. “They have good  brand recognition . From that
perspective, they could be an acquisition target for a company
with more scale but less product development expertise and weak
brand positioning.”  HTC shares touched an almost eight-year  low  this month
after the company signaled it may post its first quarterly loss
since at least 2008 on a consolidated basis. The stock drop left
the smartphone maker trading at a 56 percent discount to sales,
its cheapest valuation ever, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chairwoman  Cher Wang  and her family hold a stake in HTC and
may stand in the way of a takeover so long as the phone maker
still has cash to keep its business going, according to JI  Asia .
Without a pickup in sales, the company would enter a period of
decline that may lead to a sale,  Wedge Partners  Corp. said.  Short Reign  HTC, the first maker of phones using software from Google
Inc., was a contract manufacturer before it began promoting its
own brand in 2006. The company had a short-lived reign at the
top of the U.S. market in the third quarter of 2011, when it
accounted for 24 percent of smartphone shipments, according to
researcher Canalys.  Amid intensifying pressure from Samsung and Apple at the
high end and Chinese makers among less expensive handsets, HTC’s
share of the global smartphone market has fallen to 2.8 percent
as of the second quarter from 5.8 percent a year earlier, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  While growth for more expensive phones is slowing, HTC
still offers “the best piece of hardware outside the iPhone”
with its HTC One,  Brian Blair , a New York-based analyst at Wedge
Partners, said in a phone interview.  Lenovo Interest  The company in February 2012 said it had “dropped the
ball” on products, pointing to weaknesses in design and
engineering. The HTC One, which was supposed to herald a
reversal of fortune, has so far failed to stop a slide in the
company’s sales since the phone’s introduction was delayed to
the same timeframe as Samsung’s flagship Galaxy S4.  Chinese vendors, such as Huawei and ZTE, are the most
likely acquirers for HTC as they expand in mobile devices,
according to Blair and  Charles Golvin  at  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR) 
Beijing-based Lenovo, the world’s  largest  maker of desktop and
laptop personal computers, is also a potential buyer,
Bernstein’s Ferragu said in an e-mail.  Lenovo is “definitely seeking opportunities” for
acquisitions in both PCs and smartphones, Chief Executive
Officer  Yang Yuanqing  said in an interview last week.  “The industry is in a period of consolidation, so we
definitely should take the opportunity if we can find the right
target,” Yang said, declining to identify specific targets.
Angela Lee, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Lenovo, this week
declined to comment on HTC as a target.  Samsung Dominance  For Huawei and ZTE, which make equipment for phone networks
and are expanding in smartphones and tablets, acquiring HTC
would offer better brand identity and presence in the high-end
market, said Golvin, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based analyst.  “It’s very, very difficult for any of the smartphone
manufacturers today, who are not Samsung or Apple, to be
successful in the smartphone business,” Golvin said in a phone
interview.  Samsung and Apple dominate the global smartphone market
with a combined 43.5 percent  share  in the second quarter,
according to data from IDC in July.  ZTE (763)  doesn’t expect HTC to be sold this year because
Chairwoman Wang has many times indicated her confidence in the
company’s outlook, said David Dai, a spokesman for ZTE.  “ZTE will continue monitoring the situation of HTC and
will seek an appropriate strategy at the right time,” Dai said
in an e-mail this week.  Scott Sykes, a spokesman for Huawei, said he couldn’t
comment on speculation about acquisitions.  HTC ‘Resurgence’  Speculation that HTC could be sold is “untrue,” Laura
Kao, a spokeswoman for HTC, said in an e-mail. HTC will continue
to deliver new designs and products that will lead to a “full
resurgence of the HTC brand,” Kao said.  “HTC is taking a number of assertive steps to improve the
financial performance of our business,” Kao said. “We also
have plans under way to launch a range of innovative and
competitive mid-tier products in the coming months. This will
address our challenge of mid-tier products competitiveness.”  HTC is pinning its hopes on the introduction of those new
products, including models that build on the HTC One franchise,
to halt declining sales. The company recently unveiled the  HTC
One mini , a phone with a 4.3-inch display and a more slender
design.  In July, HTC  forecast  an eighth consecutive drop in
quarterly sales and indicated it may post a loss this quarter,
its first on a consolidated basis since at least 2008.  Resisting Sale  The stock fell to as low as NT$143 on Aug. 2, valuing HTC
at 0.44 times revenue -- its cheapest price-sales ratio on
record, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  HTC probably doesn’t want to sell at this level, and
Chairwoman Wang’s  stake  would help block the company from a
hostile takeover, according to Jean-Louis Lafayeedney, an
analyst at JI Asia in  Hong Kong .  Buyers may wait for HTC’s value to fall further.  James Faucette , an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities, expects the
company to continue losing money. He estimates HTC’s fair value
is closer to $NT100, compared with the stock’s closing price of
NT$149.5 yesterday.  “Acquisition always makes sense at a low enough price,”
he said in a phone interview. “I am concerned the price is
quite a bit lower than where the stock is now.”  It’s becoming critical for HTC to make a move as its
options become more limited as a standalone entity, said  Will Stofega , a program director at researcher IDC.  “The game now is, if you are going to be in this, you’ve
got to have partnerships,” Stofega said in a phone interview.
“You can’t do it alone.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: 
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ; 
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  