-- CAF Raises A$275 Million in First South American Kangaroo Issue
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-08-21T06:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/caf-raises-a-275-million-in-first-south-american-kangaroo-issue.html
Corporacion Andina de Fomento, a
Caracas, Venezuela-based development bank, sold A$275 million
($248 million) of three-year Kangaroo notes, the first bond sale
in Australia by a South American issuer, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The securities due Sept. 1, 2016 were priced to yield 175
basis points more than Australian federal government debt,
according to an e-mailed statement from Deutsche Bank AG, which
managed the transaction along with  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  The
supranational organization, whose stated aim is to promote
sustainable development in the region, carries the fourth-highest  credit rating  from all three major ratings companies.  CAF’s foray into the Australian market follows issues in
currencies including U.S. dollars, Swiss francs and euros,
Bloomberg-compiled data show. While other supranational lenders
from Europe,  North America  and Asia have tapped the Australian
market previously, they typically carry the highest credit
ratings and price their issues at narrower spreads.  The World Bank’s International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development also sold Kangaroo bonds today, pricing a A$500
million increase to its January 2018 line at a spread of 57.5
basis points over government notes.  Inter-American Development
Bank  issued an additional A$100 million of its May 2023
securities on Aug. 19, pricing the transaction at 77.25 basis
points over the sovereign rate.  Kangaroo bonds are Australian dollar-denominated notes sold
by foreign issuers in Australia.  CAF’s projects include rural electricity ventures in
Bolivia and sanitation programs in  Ecuador , according to its
 website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  