-- California ‘Freebies’ Drive Carbon to 2013 Low: Energy Markets
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-08-21T16:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/california-freebies-drive-carbon-to-2013-low-energy-markets.html
Carbon prices in California have
slumped to the lowest level this year as the state weighs
increasing the number of free permits offered to polluters in an
effort to kick-start the fledgling market.  Allowances for December delivery, which can be used by
companies from  BP Plc (BP/)  to  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  to cover emissions as
early as this year, dropped to $13.35 a metric ton on Aug. 19,
the lowest since Dec. 10, according to data compiled by CME
Group Inc. Permits auctioned Aug. 16 were expected to attract
the lowest price since November, according to a Bloomberg New
Energy Finance analysis.  California, the world’s 10th-largest economy, said July 18
that it will consider increasing by one-third the number of free
allowances issued to refiners, metals producers and other
companies facing higher costs and even job losses as they seek
to comply with a program designed to cut emissions 15 percent by
2020. The state Air Resources Board, which began the world’s
second-largest carbon market in 2012, will release results of
last week’s auction today.  “The market viewed the state’s plan as bearish and sold
off,” Lenny Hochschild, head of global carbon trading for
broker Evolution Markets in  White Plains ,  New York , said by
telephone. “Those companies that may receive free allocations
would presumably have less buying to do than they otherwise
would have.”  Higher Prices  The auction, the fourth since  California ’s program began,
had been expected to attract the highest prices so far because
of increased demand for emissions-intensive power generated by
natural gas after the closing of the state’s  largest nuclear
plant . Chevron also increased processing rates at the Richmond
refinery, Northern California’s largest polluter, and a summer
heat wave was expected to bring more power plants online.  The state’s 2013 allowances were forecast to go for about
$13.25 a ton in the latest quarterly auction, according to the
Bloomberg New Energy Finance analysis. BNEF cut its forecast
clearing price from $14.12 a ton projected in May. Similar
efforts to ease the burden of carbon programs in  Europe  and the
U.S. Northeast contributed to a flood of allowances and record-low futures.  Futures for California permits to be delivered in December
have declined 12 percent this year. The spread between
California allowances and those traded as part of the world’s
largest carbon market run by the European Union shrank 0.2
percent today to the narrowest since February.  Drifting Lower  California carbon prices could “drift lower” even after
the decline in last month’s sell-off, Anthony D’Agostino,
director of emissions markets at  RBC Capital Markets  in New
York, said by e-mail Aug. 19.  Under California’s “cap-and-trade” system, the state Air
Resources Board issues a capped number of allowances through a
combination of free allocations and quarterly auctions.
Companies must obtain enough permits to cover their emissions as
the pool gradually shrinks through 2020. Those with more than
they need can trade the excess.  Breweries and food manufacturers are among the companies
that would receive more permits for free should the state air
board adopt amendments  recommended  by its staff last month.
Natural gas suppliers would also be entitled to a share.  While the board will have more research done next year to
determine how many allowances to give away, companies have said
they need certainty now on how many they’ll get, Steve Cliff,
branch chief of the agency’s cap-and-trade program, said during
a workshop on the proposed changes July 18.  More Help  “We were sympathetic to that argument and put forth this
proposal to include additional transition assistance,” Cliff
said. “We don’t have specific data. It’s really an argument
against various outcomes.”  Groups including the Environmental Defense Fund have
blasted the changes, warning that they will only generate more
profits for the state’s largest polluters.  Refineries “don’t need a massive hand-out to do what’s
right,” Timothy O’Connor, EDF’s California climate and energy
initiative director in San Francisco, said to the air board last
month. “They’re posting  record profits  in the billions while
also charging record prices for their products and making record
investments in the facilities in California. This just doesn’t
point to an industry in need of another freebie.”  ‘Jobs Leakage’  Extra permits will help refiners cut their trade exposure,
minimize “jobs leakage” and control the costs of the state’s
environmental regulation, the Sacramento-based Western States
Petroleum Association, an industry group representing fuel
suppliers including BP, Chevron and  Exxon Mobil (XOM)  Corp., said in
an Aug. 2 letter to the air board.  An overallocation of allowances and an economic slowdown
created a glut of carbon permits in the European Union’s
emissions system, causing prices to slide to a record low in
April. Futures for December were unchanged today at 4.36 euros
($5.85) a ton on ICE Futures Europe in London at 10:23 a.m.  Permits traded as part of the  Regional Greenhouse Gas
Initiative , a U.S. Northeast cap-and-trade program, were selling
at the lowest price allowed before a proposal was released in
February to eliminate 45 percent of allowances.  Ahead of California’s recommendations, carbon futures had
been trading above $14 a ton for five straight months. The
market’s failure to break through the $16-a-ton level may have
contributed to the recent decline, Hochschild said.  “You had all of this bullish news, but the price still
failed to break out on the upside of $14.50 to $14.60,” he
said. “It got people thinking, ‘Well, if it’s not going to
break out to the upside after being rangebound for so long with
all this bullish news, then what is going to happen?’”  Smaller Market  The increase in free allowances is set to shrink
California’s carbon market and cut the size of auctions by 25
percent beginning in 2015,  William Nelson , a Bloomberg New
Energy Finance analyst in New York, said by telephone Aug. 13.  Long-term and medium-term models “point to a bearish 12
months ahead,” with the allowance market oversupplied by 10
percent, Nelson and Colleen Regan, another Bloomberg New Energy
Finance analyst in New York, said in a July 31 research note.
Allowances could “ride the floor,” the minimum price set by
the state, without shortages through the decade, they said.  With its proposed changes, the air board is sending a
message that “we’re not going to let prices get out of hand,”
Jon Costantino, executive director of the Association of Carbon
Market Participants, said by telephone Aug. 13 from  Sacramento .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  