-- Canada Stocks Fall as U.S. Fed Minutes Show Support for Tapering
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-08-21T20:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/canada-stocks-fall-as-gold-slips-before-u-s-fed-minutes-release.html
Canadian  stocks  fell for the second
time in three days as gold producers slumped the most in two
weeks after minutes from the U.S. Federal Reserve’s July meeting
showed policy makers support plans to slow stimulus.  Kinross Gold Corp. and Semafo Inc. sank at least 5.7
percent as the price of gold retreated.  Niko Resources Ltd. (NKO)  fell
8 percent after an analyst lowered his rating for the company
due to concerns about its finances. Canadian Natural Resources
Ltd. retreated 0.9 percent as crude declined to a two-week low.
Teck Resources Ltd. declined for a fourth day as the price of
copper tumbled.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  fell 97.03
points, or 0.8 percent, to 12,573.08 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
index has gained 1.1 percent this year. Trading volume was 2.5
percent lower than the 30-day average.  “Most investors had come to the conclusion tapering was
happening one way or another, and this is just another
confirmation,” Anish Chopra, a  fund manager  with TD Asset
Management Inc., said from Toronto. His firm manages C$216
billion ($207 billion). “There’s still questions about the
timeline, and the amount. Some investors may still have thought
there was some division. That’s not a question anymore.”  Officials with the  Federal Open Market Committee  were
“comfortable” with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to start
reducing bond buying later this year if the economy improves,
with a few saying tapering might be needed soon, minutes from
their July meeting show.  Policy makers will also gather in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming ,
this week to discuss monetary policy. About 65 percent of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predict policy makers will
taper stimulus in September.  Tapering Timing  “Our base-case assumption remains that the tapering will
begin in October -- with September still a possibility,” said
 Mark Chandler , head of Canadian fixed income strategy with  RBC
Capital Markets  in Toronto, in a report this morning before the
minutes were released.  Raw-materials producers slumped 3 percent as a group, the
most since Aug. 6, declining the  most  in the S&P/TSX as all 10
industries retreated.  Semafo sank 7.2 percent to C$2.31 and Kinross Gold fell 5.7
percent to C$5.79 as gold for December delivery slipped 0.1
percent to settle at $1,370.80 an ounce. Gold has tumbled 19
percent this year. The S&P/TSX Gold Index lost 3.6 percent, the
most since Aug. 6, after rallying to a four-month high
yesterday.  Teck Resources,  Canada ’s largest diversified miner, fell
4.6 percent to C$26.28 for a fourth day of declines, the longest
such streak since June. The stock has lost 9.6 percent since
Aug. 15.  Copper Slump  Copper prices slid 0.9 percent. A Chinese factory gauge due
tomorrow from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics will show
manufacturing continued to contract in August, economists
surveyed by Bloomberg said.  Niko Resources slipped 8 percent to C$5.73 for a four-month
low. Darren Engels, analyst with FirstEnergy Capital Corp. in
Calgary, lowered his  rating  for the stock to market perform, the
equivalent of hold, and dropped his price target to C$8.50 from
C$14.  “There is far too much uncertainty regarding the company’s
finances,” Engels said in a note to clients today.  Canadian Natural Resources retreated 0.9 percent to C$30.68
as crude declined 1.2 percent in  New York . The U.S. Energy
Information Administration said stockpiles fell by 1.43 million
barrels last week. Analysts had forecast a decline of 1.5
million barrels.  BlackBerry Ltd. sank 2.5 percent to C$10.73 after Canada’s
Industry Minister  James Moore  said the company must revive
itself without help from the government.  “It’s for them to engage the market and provide devices
and services, platforms, content that the market will receive
well,” Moore said.  The Waterloo, Ontario-based smartphone maker announced it
was forming a special committee to consider a possible sale on
Aug. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  