-- Canada’s Moore Says No Change to Spectrum Auction Rules
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-08-21T21:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/canada-s-moore-says-he-won-t-change-spectrum-auction-rules.html
Canadian Industry Minister James
Moore, facing criticism from phone companies, business groups
and unions, said he’s not convinced changes are needed to the
rules or timing of the government’s wireless spectrum auction.  The  rules , which limit the country’s three largest carriers
to 25 percent of the most valuable spectrum each and allow new
entrants to buy as much as 50 percent, have led  BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Telus
Corp. (T)  and  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  to call for changes or a
delay to the January auction amid concern that New York-based
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  may bid for it.  “The rules will not be changing,” Moore said in an
interview in his office in Ottawa. “For a company to establish
itself in the Canadian marketplace, that’s a scale of spectrum
they would require to compete across the country.”  The market  value  of Montreal-based BCE, Canada’s largest
telephone company, Rogers, based in Toronto, and  Vancouver ’s
Telus has fallen a combined C$14 billion ($13.4 billion) since
their 2013 highs, partly on concern Verizon may enter the
Canadian market. Verizon said June 18 it’s considering buying
small Canadian operator Wind Mobile, which would give it a
toehold in the Canadian market.  The government divided the most valuable parts of the
spectrum in the 700-megahertz band into four blocks and capped
the amount of prime spectrum the incumbents can buy. Companies
must apply to bid for the January auction by Sept. 17.  Lobbying Efforts  Canada’s three largest phone companies have ramped up
lobbying efforts and started a public relations campaign against
the government to promote their case, including taking out
newspaper ads and setting up a  website .  Regional players such as Montreal-based  Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B) ,
which operates a phone company in  Quebec , have also called for
the government to  change the rules  to set aside some of the
spectrum for them.  Business and labor groups have also supported the industry,
as well as the editorial boards of some of the country’s biggest
newspapers, such as the Toronto Star and Globe and Mail.  The governing Conservatives  responded  with their own
website, and Moore has been giving interviews to press his case.
Moore said in a message on Twitter yesterday that he gave 24
interviews in Toronto on the subject, and is heading to Montreal
tomorrow.  Moore said the government has already consulted
stakeholders and their concerns have been taken into account.
“We’ve delayed the auction twice, we’re not going to delay it a
third time,” Moore said. “We’re moving forward with the rules
as they are.”  Squeeze Rivals  Without measures to promote competition through the
spectrum auction, the largest phone companies could squeeze out
the smaller rivals, Moore said in the Bloomberg interview. The
alternative to the current rules is “to have three companies
with 90 percent of the market just consume up that spectrum,”
he said.  Verizon wouldn’t face any regulatory hurdles “beyond
what’s evident” if it decides to enter  Canada , Moore said,
adding the government will move ahead with the auction even if a
new carrier doesn’t express interest.  “It could well be an incumbent smaller player has a
business model that means a larger national footprint,” he
said.  Faster Networks  Companies like BCE and Rogers say that they need the
spectrum to feed data-hungry smartphones and tablets.  The 700-megahertz band is coveted by wireless providers
because devices using that frequency are better able to receive
signals inside buildings and in rural areas.  Having Verizon take up half the prime spectrum would be
acceptable to the government, Moore said. Alternatively, all the
blocks could go to Canadian companies.  “For the government, our success or failure of our policy
is not defined by Verizon coming or not coming,” Moore said.
“It’s defined by over the long-term having more competition.”  The spectrum being auctioned aligns with frequencies used
in the U.S. by  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon, which will give the
winning bidder access to the same supply chains of the larger
U.S. companies. It would also simplify equipment sold on either
side of the border to work on other carriers’ networks.  Two of the four prime blocks are harmonized with AT&T’s
spectrum, while the other two are aligned with Verizon’s U.S.
holdings.  Sale Blocked  Canada’s government also is preventing the major carriers
from acquiring previously auctioned spectrum to prevent further
market concentration. The government in June blocked Telus’s
purchase of smaller Mobilicity until a moratorium on the sale of
airwaves auctioned in 2008 expires next year and warned
transfers of spectrum rights won’t be approved if it hampers
competition.  Harper’s government has sought to foster greater
competition in the nation’s wireless industry, including setting
aside a certain amount of spectrum in the 2008 auction for
emerging providers to bid on. Last year, it loosened ownership
restrictions to allow foreign companies to buy carriers with
less than 10 percent market share.  The government has said it wants four wireless providers in
every region of the world’s 11th largest economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  