-- Canada May See Most Wheat in 22 Years With Record Canola Crop
-- B y   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-08-21T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/canada-may-see-most-wheat-in-22-years-with-record-canola-crop.html
Canadian farmers may harvest the
most wheat in 22 years and produce the biggest canola crop on
record, according to a government survey.  All-wheat production will probably expand to 30.6 million
metric tons, up 12.9 percent from 27.1 million tons in 2012,
Statistics  Canada  said today from Ottawa. Wheat production is
forecast to be the highest since 1991 when farmers produced 31.9
million tons. The average production estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News was just below 30 million tons.  The canola harvest in Canada, the world’s largest grower,
may climb 11.5 percent to 14.7 million tons, up from 13.2
million tons in 2012 and exceeding the record output of 14.6
million tons in 2011, according to the report. Analysts in a
Bloomberg survey forecast 15.4 million tons.  Statistics Canada said it interviewed about 15,000 farmers
between July 24 and Aug. 5. The estimate excludes production in
British Columbia and Canada’s Atlantic provinces, which accounts
for 2 to 4 percent of output, Statistics Canada said. Production
data for previous years was revised to exclude output from those
areas.  Growing conditions have “improved and the threat of frost
is really out of the forecast,” Tony Tryhuk, branch manager for
RBC Dominion Securities commodity futures trading division, said
in a telephone interview from Winnipeg before the report.  Yield Potential  While planting in many parts of Western Canada was delayed
this spring by excess moisture and cool temperatures, farmers
managed to sow most of their crop by mid-June, according to
reports from  Alberta , Manitoba, and Saskatchewan. Warm, wet
weather across the Canadian Prairies in the last half of June
and early July boosted prospects for higher canola yields,
Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada said in a July 17  report  and
Alberta’s agriculture ministry estimated  yields  could rise as
much as 20 percent above average.  Today’s government estimate does not fully show the yield
potential, Ken Ball, senior commodities futures adviser for PI
Financial in Winnipeg, said in an e-mailed statement before the
report. Many crops were slow to develop and canola fields that
were still in full flower in late July may now produce 60-70
bushels an acre, he said.  “A lot of crops were late and assessing yield at that
stage involved a little more guesswork than it does now,” Ball
said.  Cooler temperatures in early August put crop development 10
days to two weeks behind normal in many areas, Saskatchewan’s
agriculture ministry said Aug. 15. Warm weather helped to
advance crops last week and spring wheat yields in Saskatchewan,
the largest producer, may range between 33 and 38 bushels an
acre in the south and as much as 41 bushels in the north,
according to provincial estimates.  Wheat futures on the Minneapolis Grain Exchange fell 15
percent this year through yesterday, and canola prices declined
14 percent on ICE Futures Canada in Winnipeg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  