-- Carlsberg Keeps 2013 Profit Forecast as Russian Market Slows
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-08-21T10:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/carlsberg-second-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-as-russia-slows.html
Carlsberg A/S (CARLB)  maintained its 2013
earnings forecast as the maker of Tuborg beer reported little-changed second-quarter profit, saying it sees declines in the
Russian market that it dominates.  The seller of Somersby cider still expects operating profit
of about 10 billion kroner ($1.8 billion), while net income will
probably rise by a mid-single-digit percentage, the Copenhagen-based company said in a statement today.  “The fact management has been able to reaffirm full-year
guidance is reassuring,” Jonathan Fyfe, an analyst at Mirabaud
Securities Ltd., said in a note to clients.  Carlsberg shares have risen less than peers this year,
partly because of concern over sales in  Russia , where it’s the
biggest brewer. The company said today it sees a mid-single-digit percentage market decline in the country, which has
increased beer taxes and introduced more regulation on alcohol
sales. It had previously predicted a “flat” market.  Carlsberg  rose  1.3 percent to 571 kroner at 12:27 p.m. in
Copenhagen, extending this year’s gain to 3 percent. Heineken
NV, which today predicted that earnings won’t grow this year,
has risen 6.7 percent in 2013 and SABMiller Plc 7.5 percent.  Carlsberg’s second-quarter earnings before interest and
taxes fell to 3.44 billion kroner from 3.47 billion kroner a
year earlier. Analysts had expected 3.55 billion kroner,
according to the average of 17 estimates. The earnings and
company forecasts exclude one-time items.  Slowing Russia  Sales advanced to 19.6 billion kroner from 19.3 billion
kroner a year earlier, matching analysts’ estimates.  The brewer grabbed a larger share of the Russian market in
the second quarter, boosting its slice by 130 basis points to
39.2 percent compared with the same period last year. Carlsberg
increased prices in Russia in March, May and June.  For  Asia  and western  Europe , the Danish brewer expects the
beer market to be “similar” in 2013 to last year.  Asia remains a focus for Carlsberg’s acquisition strategy,
Chief Executive Officer Joergen Buhl Rasmussen said in an
interview, without giving details.  “There is no change to our acquisition strategy, if it
creates value for our shareholders we will certainly look at it
and possibly do it,” Rasmussen said, adding that Asia is “a
strong growth engine for Carlsberg.”  Carlsberg has introduced a range of new products in the
past few years and saw particularly strong growth for its
Somersby brand, with volume growth of 85 percent in the first
half, helped by new markets like the U.K.  “Somersby is a very successful cider product, it’s
different to many other cider products in the way it’s
positioned and in the taste profile,” the CEO said. “Of
course, the growth can’t stay at 85 percent, but I think we can
grow fast in the years to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  