-- Catena Soars After Reverse Property Acquisition: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-08-21T11:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/catena-soars-after-reverse-property-acquisition-stockholm-mover.html
Catena AB (CATE)  climbed to the highest in
two years after the Swedish real estate company agreed to be
bought by Erik Paulsson’s Brinova Fastigheter AB in return for
industrial properties valued at 3.8 billion kronor ($583
million).  The shares rose as much as 20 percent to 103.5 kronor, the
highest price since Aug. 2, 2011, and were up 11 percent at
12:30 p.m. local time, the second-biggest biggest gainer among
stocks in the  OMX Stockholm All-Share index.   In the deal, Catena, based in Gothenburg, will buy
Brinova’s Logistics unit with annual rental income of 346
million kronor for a net value of 1.15 billion kronor, less
existing liabilities, according to a statement yesterday. The
acquisition will be financed through a issue to Brinova of 13.6
million shares at 84 kronor each. Brinova will hold 54 percent
of Catena after the deal.  Brinova is controlled by Swedish real-estate investor
Paulsson, who holds stakes in companies including resort
operator  SkiStar AB (SKISB)  and commercial property companies  Fabege AB (FABG) 
and  Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB. (WIHL)  Brinova Chief Executive Officer
Gustaf Hermelin will lead Catena after the transaction. The deal
covers 43 industrial properties with a lettable area of 655,000
square meters (7.1 million square feet).  The reverse purchase will provide Catena with the financing
and know-how for development of its current property stock in
the Stockholm suburb of Solna, the company said.  “In terms of size and complexity, Catena’s projects in
Solna are such that Catena requires a larger capital and
competency base to be able to fully capitalize on the project’s
value potential,” Chairman Henry Klotz said in the statement.
“Through the transaction with Brinova, Catena will gain these
resources.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  