-- Chelsea Beats Aston Villa 2-1 in English Soccer’s Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/chelsea-defeats-aston-villa-2-1-in-english-premier-league-match.html
Jose Mourinho maintained his
unbeaten home record in English Premier League soccer as Chelsea
defeated Aston Villa 2-1.  Branislav Ivanovic’s 73rd-minute goal gave Chelsea the win
last night at  Stamford  Bridge in  London . The Blues took the lead
on an own goal from Antonio Luna in the seventh minute and
Villa’s Christian Benteke tied the score just before half time.  Mourinho has never lost in 62 home league matches at
Chelsea. The Portuguese returned to the club for a second stint
in June after leaving Real Madrid and opened the season with a
2-0 win against Hull City four days ago.  “That was very hard,” Mourinho told Sky Sports. “I told
Paul Lambert that they deserve a point. It wouldn’t be unfair.”  After being routed 8-0 at Chelsea last season, Lambert’s
Villa team provided a tougher test last night.  The Blues used a bit of fortune to take the lead. Villa
goalkeeper Brad Guzan pushed out Eden Hazard’s shot, only to
have the ball ricochet into the net off defender Luna.  Villa, which won 3-1 at Arsenal in its season opener, drew
even in first-half stoppage time as Gabriel Agbonlahor drove
down the left side and squared the ball for Benteke to score
between Petr Cech and the post for his third goal of the season.  Ivanovic headed in Frank Lampard’s free kick three minutes
after receiving a yellow card in the 70th minute for hitting
Benteke in the face with his arm as the two went up for the
ball. Lambert said the Serbian defender should never have been
given the chance to score.  “It’s easy to come on here and have sour grapes, but it’s
there for everybody to see,” Lambert told Sky Sports. “He
clearly elbowed Christian Benteke. It was a sending off.”  The win took Chelsea atop the standings having played a
game more than every team but Villa. Their match was rescheduled
because of the Blues’ participation in the UEFA Super Cup
against Bayern Munich on Aug. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 