-- China Resources May Join Tesco to Bid for Li’s ParknShop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-22T03:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/china-resources-may-join-with-tesco-in-bid-for-li-ka-shing-chain.html
China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291) , the
state-backed retail and beer conglomerate, said it may partner
with  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  to bid for billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hong Kong
supermarket chain.  China Resources may raise debt and will consider selling
“non-core assets” to fund a purchase of the ParknShop chain,
Frank Lai, chief financial officer for the Chinese company, said
at an earnings briefing in Hong Kong yesterday.  Li’s biggest company,  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , is
considering selling the grocer, one of the two largest chains in
Hong Kong’s $6.6 billion supermarket industry. ParknShop
attracted eight offers from suitors including China Resources,
people with knowledge of the process said this month.  “We will consider to bid with Tesco; it’s one of the
discussions we have with them,” Lai said. The purchase could
help China Resources “increase market share, improve efficiency
and achieve economy of scale” in Hong Kong, he said.  ParknShop is a “quality asset” well operated by Hutchison
Whampoa, the executive said, declining to say how much his
company would be willing to pay.  China Resources  this month announced a joint venture with
Tesco that will see the U.K. firm merge its 131 stores in China
with the Hong Kong-based company. China Resources will hold an
80 percent stake in that tie-up, the companies have said.  The completion of that deal would end nearly a decade of
independent operations for Tesco in mainland China, where it has
been closing stores and seen sales decline.  Dairy Farm  Tom Hoskin, a spokesman for Cheshunt, England-based Tesco,
declined to comment on China Resources’ remarks. Li, Asia’s
richest man, has a net worth of $26.9 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaire’s Index.  China Resources dropped 2.32 percent at HK$23.15 in Hong
Kong as of 11:06 a.m. today. The stock has slumped 17 percent
this year, compared with a 4.2 percent decline for the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index . Tesco fell 0.5 percent to close at 363.20 pence
in London trading yesterday.  A merger with ParknShop could allow China Resources to
leapfrog Singapore-listed  Dairy Farm International Holdings Ltd. (DFI) 
to become Hong Kong’s largest supermarket operator.  ParknShop had 33 percent of the Hong Kong grocery market in
2012, after Wellcome, controlled by Dairy Farm, with 40 percent,
according to researcher Euromonitor. CR Vanguard Supermarket,
run by China Resources, ranked third with 7.8 percent.  Cash Cow  ParknShop, which had revenue of HK$21.7 billion ($2.8
billion) last year, has more than 270 of its 345 outlets in Hong
Kong. Sales growth in the city’s supermarket industry slowed to
7.9 percent in May from last year’s annual increase of 11
percent and a 2011 peak of 13 percent, government statistics
show.  Hong Kong’s surging rents and a slowing grocery market
could deter buyers from offering top price for the chain,
analysts said. High rents will be factored into the bidding
price for ParknShop, Lai said yesterday.  Hutchison is seeking $3 billion to $4 billion for
ParknShop, a person familiar with the matter said last month.  “The Hong Kong business is profitable and a cash cow, but
the valuation looks expensive and the growth prospects aren’t
big,” said Anson Chan, Hong Kong-based analyst at KGI Asia Ltd,
which has a underperform  rating  on China Resources.  Eight Offers  Private-equity firms  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and TPG Capital also
submitted preliminary bids for ParknShop, two people with
knowledge of the process said this month.  Sun Art Retail Group
Ltd. (6808) , Japan’s  Aeon Co. (8267) ,  Lotte Shopping Co. (023530) ,  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  and
 Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES)  also made preliminary offers, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  “Obviously there are lots of people competing for this --
if they get it at the right price it’s a very good move for
Tesco,” Michael Dennis, an analyst at  Cantor Fitzgerald , said
in London by phone.  On China’s mainland, Tesco has faced a slowing economy and
competition from regional rivals such as Sun Art. The U.K.
retailer scaled back its efforts in China last year to focus on
building out more profitable businesses, Chief Executive Officer
 Philip Clarke  said in April. The company has adopted a more
“cautious stance” in the country and closed five
underperforming outlets last year to focus on its strongest
regions, it said in April.  Tesco China  Sales for Tesco’s China stores opened at least a year
dropped 4.9 percent in the first quarter amid consumer concern
over bird flu and weaker demand for pork following a national
food safety scare.  China Resources Enterprise yesterday reported a 54 percent
drop in first-half profit as weaker economic growth and a
government push to curb public expenditures hurt demand. The
company, which has a joint venture with  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  producing
China’s largest beer brand, also runs food and beverage
businesses.  China  Resources and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. both had a 11
percent share each in China’s hypermarket industry last year.
That lags the 14 percent share by Sun Art Retail, backed by
France’s Groupe Auchan SA, according to Euromonitor
International.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  