-- China Telecom Posts Second-Straight Profit Gain on IPhone
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-21T05:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/china-telecom-posts-second-straight-profit-gain-on-iphone.html
China Telecom Corp. (728) , the country’s
third-biggest mobile phone operator by users, posted its second-straight gain in quarterly profit as subscribers with  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone helped boost data usage.  Net income  rose 21 percent to 5.52 billion  yuan  ($902
million) in the second quarter, from 4.55 billion yuan a year
earlier, the Beijing-based company said in a  statement  today.
That beat the 5.25 billion-yuan average of five  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chairman Wang Xiaochu is benefiting from an increase in
users of third-generation mobile services and rising sales of
data packages to download games and movies after introducing the
iPhone last year. With 50 percent of its subscribers on 3G,
China Telecom has surpassed both its larger rivals,  China Mobile
Ltd. (941)  and China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd., by that measure.  “Profits are slightly higher than we expected,” Anand Ramachandran, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Barclays Plc., wrote
in a report to clients today. Sales are boosted “as the
proportion of higher average revenue per user 3G subscriber
rises.”  Sales in the second quarter rose 14 percent to 79.7 billion
yuan, the company said. That compares with the average of 80.7
billion yuan in the  Bloomberg survey .  3G Users  China Telecom  rose  1.5 percent to HK$4.08 at 1:50 p.m. in
Hong Kong trading. The  stock  has dropped 5.3 percent this year,
compared with a 3.8 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  China Telecom last year said the iPhone would help it
achieve long-term sustainable growth even as it caused “short-term pressure” on profitability. The company reported  three
straight declines  in net income until last quarter, when it
resumed growth.  In the second quarter, the company’s mobile unit added 9.26
million 3G users, bringing it to 87.3 million. That represents
half of its total wireless subscriber base of 174.5 million.
China Telecom ranks behind China Mobile and China Unicom in
wireless users.  China Mobile, the world’s biggest wireless carrier with 740
million subscribers, has 19 percent of its customers on 3G.
About 38 percent of China Unicom’s 262 million users are on the
faster network, according to data the carriers released last
month.  “As the 3G subscribers offer higher average revenue per
user, the quality of customers is better for China Telecom,”
Ricky Lai, an analyst at Guotai Junan International Holdings
Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said in a phone interview yesterday.  China Telecom entered the wireless market in 2008 by
acquiring the smaller of China Unicom’s two mobile divisions in
a government-led revamp of the nation’s mobile-phone industry.  China Mobile this month posted a 2.5 percent rise in
second-quarter  profit  as costs to add new subscribers to its
third-generation network restrained growth. China Unicom posted
posted a 41 percent jump in net income for the period. Both sets
of results exceeded analyst estimates.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  