-- China Resources Enterprise Profit Falls on Slower Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-21T05:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/china-resources-enterprise-profit-falls-on-slower-economy.html
China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291) 
reported a 54 percent drop in first-half profit as weaker
economic growth and a government push to curb public
expenditures hurt demand at the state-backed retail and beer
conglomerate.  Net income  dropped to HK$1.02 billion ($131 million) for
the six months ended June from HK$2.24 billion a year earlier,
the company said in a statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange
today.  Profit to shareholders excluding asset revaluations and
major disposals dropped 11 percent to HK$1.01 billion. This
compares with an average HK$1.07 billion estimate by seven
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  China Resources , which also runs beer, beverage and food
businesses, has said sales of pricey items such as liquor and
high-end cigarettes were hurt by a government campaign to stamp
out gifting and extravagant official spending.  China’s economy 
expanded 7.5 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier,
the second straight deceleration.  “Looking forward to the second half of 2013, the short-term operating environment and consumer sentiment are both
likely to be affected by the volatile global economy,” the
company said in today’s statement.  The Hong Kong-listed company fell 2.1 percent to HK$22.85
as of 1:09 p.m. local time. The stock has declined 18 percent
this year, compared with a 4 percent drop for the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index .  Anti-extravagance  “The overall economy is not good and  consumer price index 
has been pretty low and that hurt their retail business,” said
Charlie Chen, Hong Kong-based analyst at BNP Paribas Securities
Asia.  Profit in the retail division, which includes hypermarkets
and coffee shops and accounts for more than half of the
company’s earnings in the period, dropped 64 percent to HK$637
million amid a government crackdown on lavish spending and slow
growth in the world’s second-largest economy.  The beer division, which makes China’s best-selling Snow
brand with  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , posted a 4.5 percent decline in profit
to HK$358 million. An increased investment in some of its
promotions and marketing activities amid rising competition have
hindered growth in the unit’s operating profit, the company
said.  Fierce Competition  Snow beer had a 20 percent share of the Chinese market in
2012, the  largest  in the country, followed by  Tsingtao Brewery
Co. (600600)  with 10 percent, according to Euromonitor International, a
London-based research company. China Resources’ venture agreed
to buy Guangdong-based  Kingway Brewery Holdings Ltd. (124) ’s beer-making assets in February to boost its market share.  Tough competition in the retail and beer segments will
continue to weigh on China Resources earnings going forward,
with promotions, rather than demand, boosting sales, Kenny Wu,
Hong Kong-based analyst at JI-Asia Research Ltd., wrote in a
report this month.  China Resources operated 4,448 retail stores ranging from
hypermarkets to wine cellars as of March 31, according to the
company.  The company this month announced a joint venture with  Tesco
Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s biggest retailer that will run supermarkets,
 convenience stores , and other outlets in China, Hong Kong and
Macau. Tesco will merge its 131 stores in China with China
Resources which will hold a 80 percent stake in the new tie-up,
the companies said.  China Resources and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  are tied for
second place in the country’s hypermarket industry with an 11
percent share each last year. That lags the 14 percent share by
 Sun Art Retail Group Ltd. (6808) , backed by France’s Groupe Auchan,
according to Euromonitor International.  Profit at its food unit, which sells products including
rice and frozen items, dropped by 51 percent to HK$71 million.
Profit at the beverage unit rose 30 percent to HK$39 million.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  