-- China Swap Rate Halts 8-Day Gain as Increase Deemed Excessive
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-08-21T03:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/china-swap-rate-halts-8-day-gain-as-increase-deemed-excessive.html
China ’s one-year  interest-rate swaps 
halted an eight-day advance on speculation the increase was
excessive.  The People’s Bank of China asked banks to submit orders for
28-day repurchase contracts and 14-day reverse repurchase
agreements this morning, said a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. The monetary authority also
gauged demand for sales of 91-day bills tomorrow, the trader
said.  Yuan positions  at China’s financial institutions
accumulated from sales of foreign exchange, a barometer of
capital flows, fell 24.5 billion yuan ($4 billion) in July,
declining for a second straight month.  “Local traders may judge that the previous upward move in
front-end rates was a bit overdone,” said  Frances Cheung , a
senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “That said, I don’t
think one-year or two-year interest-rate swaps can come down
meaningfully.”  One-year interest-rate swaps, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, slipped seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 4.12 percent as of
11:30 a.m. in  Shanghai , data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
rate, which touched a two-month high yesterday, has increased 32
basis points since Aug. 8.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, slid 25 basis points to 4.26
percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by
the National Interbank Funding Center. The rate reached 4.511
percent yesterday, the highest level since Aug. 2. It touched a
record 12.445 percent on June 20 due to a cash squeeze
engineered by the authorities to curb excessive lending.  “We think relatively tight conditions are likely to remain
in the coming months,” Singapore-based analysts Igor Arsenin
and Rohit Arora at Barclays Plc wrote in a report today. “Tight
liquidity is a function of ‘prudent’ liquidity management by the
PBOC, low foreign-exchange inflows and precautionary demand for
excess reserves in our view.”  The government is due to sell 30 billion  yuan  of 10-year
bonds today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  