-- Chris Christie’s Conversion Politics
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-21T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/chris-christie-s-conversion-politics.html
(Corrects third paragraph to refer to support of so-called
conversion therapy instead of opposition to it.)  More than a decade ago, the American
Academy of Pediatrics  recommended that  patients and their
parents “avoid any treatments that claim to be able to change a
person’s sexual orientation, or treatment ideas that see
homosexuality as a sickness.” This week, New Jersey Governor
Chris Christie officially endorsed this point of view.  Christie  signed  a bill banning licensed therapists from
trying to “convert” gay teens to heterosexuality. For that he
received stinging  criticism  from conservative anti-gay groups.
It’s possible, however -- hard as it may be to imagine -- that
Christie’s supporters are exaggerating the  political courage  he
showed by signing this legislation. It’s also possible to
overthink the more legitimate debate it raises.  Let’s dispose of the politics first. Christie, whose
presidential ambitions extend beyond New Jersey, may well make
trouble for himself among some socially conservative Republicans
with his support of this bill. Yet support of so-called
conversion therapy -- much like opposition to same-sex marriage
-- is dwindling, and will further by 2016. At any rate,
truckling to fear and prejudice is no way to win a party
nomination or, for that matter, to lead a state.  As for the debate over the policy itself, Christie and the
nation’s pediatricians are in  good company : The American
Psychological Association and 11 other groups all concur that
homosexuality is not something that can or should be “cured.”
Yet some social conservatives maintain that the New Jersey law,
only the second in the nation after a similar law in  California ,
infringes on parental rights.  They are correct, of course. Parents who are desperate for
their children to be straight, and willing to go to extremes in
an attempt to make it happen, have just had their rights
circumscribed in New Jersey. But the tales of abuse and
heartbreak in the dubious field of conversion therapy are
sufficient impetus to legislative action.  New Jersey lawmakers heard  testimony  from a transgendered
woman who as a teen was sent away to a conversion camp where she
was subjected to twice-weekly electric-shock therapy and vomit-inducing drugs. Her rights, and the rights of others like her,
trump the preferences of parents who resist evidence that
sexuality doesn’t bend to quack therapies.  In a statement accompanying his signing of the bill,
Christie  focused on  the health risks conversion therapy posed to
children. Left unaddressed were the benefits greater acceptance
of gays and gay rights, including same-sex marriage, bring to
society as a whole.  New Jersey’s governor still opposes same-sex marriage, as
his critics (rather uncharitably, given that he had just signed
this bill into law) pointed out this week. Christie’s challenge
now is not so much to justify his limited support of gay rights
to his social-conservative allies. It’s to explain to them and
the rest of the country why his support doesn’t extend further.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 