-- ClearBridge Fund Best as Patience Pays: Riskless Return
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-08-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/clearbridge-fund-best-as-patience-pays-riskless-return.html
ClearBridge Investments’ Richard Freeman followed drug company Alza Corp. for 28 years before
buying shares in 1999, when a failed acquisition by a larger
company sent shares plunging. Two years later, Johnson & Johnson
bought Alza for triple the price the fund paid.  Patience and a contrarian view helped Freeman and co-manager Evan Bauman steer  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) ’s $7.6 billion
ClearBridge Aggressive Growth Fund to a risk-adjusted
performance of 4.3 percent over the past three years, the best
of 34 large funds that buy stocks of U.S. companies with higher-than-average growth, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN
RANKING. The ClearBridge fund returned 45 percent after price
swings since it started in 1983, the highest among the six peer
funds that have been in existence since then.  Freeman and Bauman, who seek cash-rich companies that are
growing faster than their rivals, wait to buy their targets at
what they deem is the right price and generally hold on to their
picks for years. The managers don’t pay much attention to the
composition of the fund’s benchmark, the Russell 3000 Growth
Index, instead focusing on companies and industries with the
best prospects for growth. The fund has put 34 percent of assets
into health-care stocks, almost three times as much as the
allocation in the benchmark.  “Over the last three years, the performance has been from
many names put into the  portfolio  10, 20 and 25 years ago,”
Freeman, 60, who has run the fund since its inception, said in
an interview from his office in New York. “The strongest names
are those we’ve owned for a long time and have gone on to make
higher highs in terms of earnings and cash flows, and stock
prices have moved accordingly.”  Citigroup Unit  Legg Mason carved out ClearBridge from stock funds it
acquired with its 2005 purchase of  Citigroup Inc.’s (C)  asset-management unit. ClearBridge, now the Baltimore-based money
manager’s largest equity-fund affiliate, in January took over
the Legg Mason Capital Management division formerly home to
stockpicker Bill Miller.  Performance at the Aggressive Growth and other funds has
helped ClearBridge attract money this year, as Legg Mason has
struggled to reverse five straight years of net redemptions.
Chief Executive Officer Joseph A. Sullivan, who was named to the
role in February, has vowed to stem withdrawals by focusing on
Legg Mason’s product lineup and improving performance.  ClearBridge Aggressive Growth Fund’s No. 1 ranking was
driven by the highest absolute return of 85 percent, which
helped mitigate the impact of above-average  volatility . The
fund’s volatility was 19.9, compared with 19.2 for the group.  Delaware Funds  The ranking included funds with assets of more than $1
billion and in operation for at least three years within a group
defined by Bloomberg as growth stocks.  The $1.9 billion Delaware U.S. Growth Fund had the second-highest risk-adjusted return, at 4.1 percent, followed by the $1
billion  Delaware Select Growth Fund (DVEAX) , which had a 4 percent
return when adjusted for price swings. The funds have similar
management teams and both posted higher returns than peers with
below-average volatility.  The risk-adjusted return isn’t annualized. It’s calculated
by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree of daily
price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk.
Higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Biotech Stocks  The ClearBridge fund’s concentration in biotechnology
stocks may lead to higher price swings, according to Freeman.
Biotechnology stocks tend to be more volatile because of
“binary outcomes,” which the managers seek to address by
focusing on more diversified companies that produce several
drugs for a variety of incurable diseases, Bauman said. The
Nasdaq Biotechnology Index had volatility of 21.4 over the past
three years, compared with 17.7 for the Russell 3000 Growth
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Freeman and Bauman have also sought to minimize volatility
by holding onto stocks for long periods of time and keeping
turnover to the single digits. The fund’s turnover ratio, a
gauge of how much the holdings change in a year, was 8 percent,
compared with an average of 96 percent for the 520 funds
classified as multi-cap growth funds by S&P Capital IQ,
according to  Todd Rosenbluth , director of mutual fund and ETF
research for the McGraw Hill Financial Inc. unit.  Biogen, UnitedHealth  The ClearBridge managers have been able to boost returns by
picking companies that have positive free cash flow and have
been able to increase earnings by introducing innovative
products. The compound five-year growth rate in operating income
for  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , the fund’s largest holding, was 10
percent. That rate was 29 percent for the second-biggest
 holding ,  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Biogen, which develops drugs for neurological disorders,
cancer and arthritis, has been a stake since 1991, when it
traded for less than $3. The  shares  surged to $206.55 as of Aug.
20.  UnitedHealth Group, which was also bought in 1991, now
represents about 7.6 percent of the fund. UnitedHealth, the
largest U.S. health insurer, has returned 139 percent over the
past three years. Health-care stocks have benefited as investors
have sought out quality companies and regulatory reform means
more Americans will have insurance, said Rosenbluth of S&P
Capital IQ.  Facebook Stake  Freeman and Bauman decided to increase  shares  of Facebook
Inc. in August 2012, when the world’s most popular social-networking company was trading in the low $20s. The shares have
since surged to $38.41. The fund held about 2.45 million shares
of Menlo Park,  California-based Facebook , accounting for about
0.8 percent of the fund as of June 30.  The managers liked Facebook’s appeal among users and strong
balance sheet, and bought as shares dropped about 45 percent
from the initial public offering.  The emphasis on growth hasn’t prompted the ClearBridge
managers to overlook the importance of investing in stocks at
the right price. Freeman avoided technology stocks in the late
1990s, prior to their 37 percent  plunge  in 2000.  ‘Plain Vanilla’  “It’s the most plain vanilla strategy in the world -- make
good entry points on valuation, and hold onto them for the long
term,” said Shannon Zimmerman, associate director of fund
analysis for Chicago-based research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) 
“They’re bottom up, fundamental stock pickers who know their
companies inside and out.”  The ClearBridge fund’s retail share class attracted $163
million this year through June 30, the third-highest flows among
ClearBridge’s 15 U.S. mutual funds, according to estimates from
Morningstar. The offshore version of  ClearBridge Aggressive
Growth Fund (SHRAX)  lured more than $500 million from institutional
investors in Europe and Asia this year, said Bauman, who has
helped manage that version of the fund since 2000.  ClearBridge attracted $2.6 billion during the three months
ended June 30, helping Legg Mason limit equity withdrawals to
$700 million, the smallest amount since 2010.  Investors in the ClearBridge Aggressive Growth Fund should
be aware there is potential that the fund may have more money
than it can focus on as it continues to attract deposits and
take concentrated positions in smaller companies, Morningstar’s
Zimmerman said. The weighted average  market capitalization  of
the fund is $36.4 billion as of July 31, according to
ClearBridge’s website, compared with $80.3 billion for the
Russell 3000 Growth Index.  $60 Billion  Freeman said he isn’t worried about liquidity of the
companies the fund invests in and similar strategies handle as
much as $60 billion in assets.  The ClearBridge fund  advanced  23 percent over the past
three years on an absolute basis, beating 98 percent of
similarly managed rivals, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The fund returned 25 percent this year, beating 96
percent of peers.  Freeman, who at the age of 13 would sit in a local
brokerage firm after school to watch the ticker, said Alza
piqued his interest because it was the first company dedicated
to the sustained release of drugs, by delivering smaller doses
of medication at set intervals.  Alza Acquisition  He bought 2.2 million shares of Alza in December 1999, when
shares fell more than 30 percent after an acquisition by Abbott
Laboratories fell apart amid concerns raised by the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission. Johnson & Johnson acquired Alza in June 2001
for triple the price paid by the fund, as the health-care
company sought to spur growth in its prescription-drug business.
Freeman exchanged Alza shares for Johnson & Johnson stock, and
held onto them for an additional seven years, a period in which
the shares returned 48 percent.  “The most important thing is do we think companies can
make higher highs in terms of earnings and cash flows,” said
Freeman. “Because there’s going to be a correlation over time
between earnings and stock price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  