-- Code Revisions Await 2015 Turn With Election Year Stasis
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r
-- 2013-08-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/code-revisions-await-2015-turn-with-election-year-statis.html
Economics and politics are poised to
change the landscape for a U.S.  tax  code rewrite if the chairmen
of the congressional tax panels can’t overcome conflicts to push
through changes by next year.  The details of a tax plan in 2015 probably will reflect an
improved economy and shifts in congressional leadership after
the 2014 election, analysts and lobbyists said, according to
Bloomberg BNA.  “You change the cast of characters, and who knows?”
 Roberton Williams , an analyst at the Tax Policy Center, said in
an interview. The nonpartisan, Washington-based group researches
tax policy.  Passing a tax-code overhaul in both chambers in the next
year will be difficult. Democrats and Republicans are dueling
over taxes and spending. President  Barack Obama  wants more money
for infrastructure, education and  deficit  reduction, and Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, has said tax
legislation must raise significant revenue.  Republicans have rejected tax increases. Although Chairman
Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican, plans to draft a tax-code
rewrite this year in the House Ways and Means Committee, his
party’s leaders in the chamber show little enthusiasm for
bringing it to a floor vote.  Improving Economy  With Democrats resisting budget cuts and Republicans dug in
against tax increases, an improving economy might allow Congress
to put the U.S. budget in better order, Williams said.  “The expansion should be in full swing by 2015,” Moody’s
Analytics Inc. chief economist Mark Zandi predicted in an Aug. 6
report.  Forecasts for the economy in 2015 vary. The Congressional
Budget Office has predicted annual gross domestic product to
grow by an average of 3.6 percent from 2015 to 2018.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg earlier this month were
less optimistic, projecting that the economy will expand 3
percent in 2015, and that the unemployment rate will average 6.4
percent that year compared with 5.3 percent during the expansion
that ended in December 2007.  By 2015, the government also will have a clearer sense of
whether the Affordable Care Act is succeeding at lowering health
care costs and reducing the number of people without medical
insurance, Williams said.  If the law, which provides tax credits and also imposes a
tax for noncompliance with the insurance mandates, notches
victories, Congress could gain flexibility, Williams said.  “If the ACA is successful, maybe we can do different
things on the tax side,” he said.  Mortgage Interest  A more robust housing market also might remove some of the
roadblocks to tinkering with the $70 billion-a-year tax
deduction for mortgage interest, Williams said. More than half
the benefits from the deduction go to households earning between
$75,000 and $200,000 a year, though reining it in would spark a
political outcry.  A variety of ideas are being discussed to curtail the tax
break without ending it. Options include lowering the $1 million
cap on the size of deductible loans, eliminating the benefit for
second homes and imposing limits on top earners’ itemized
deductions, including mortgage interest.  Still, any plan that generates significant revenue would
pinch the housing industry and upper-middle-class voters.  Home Sales  Williams said that while curbing the mortgage interest
deduction would immediately hurt home prices, a more stable
housing market might be able to take the hit.  Combined sales of new and existing homes in May and June
were the strongest since mid-2007, excluding a short-lived
rebound in 2009 when the government offered a first-time buyer
credit. Home prices in 20 cities tracked by  S&P/Case-Shiller (SPCS20Y%) 
rose 12.2 percent in May from a year earlier, the biggest 12-month gain since March 2006.  The politics of 2015 will depend on whether Democrats hold
onto their Senate majority next year, as well as on who takes
over leadership of the Senate Finance and House Ways and Means
committees.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, a Montana
Democrat, is retiring, and Camp has to give up his Ways and
Means chairmanship under House Republican rules, although he
could request a waiver.  Camp said in a Bloomberg Television interview this month
that taxes for individuals and corporations should be lowered
together. To pay for those changes and produce a revenue-neutral
bill, he said he’s considering altering the deductions for
mortgage interest and charitable contributions.  In Wings  Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, is first in line to
succeed Baucus as chairman and is an enthusiastic supporter of
reworking the tax code. In the House, Paul Ryan of  Wisconsin ,
the 2012 Republican vice presidential nominee, and Texas
Republican Kevin Brady are potential front-runners.  Complicating the picture is a lack of presidential
leadership, Williams said, contrasting Obama’s approach with
President Ronald Reagan’s support for a tax rewrite in 1986.  Also crimping a tax rewrite in 2015 is the run-up to the
2016 presidential election, which could make the window for
legislation even shorter.  While Camp and Baucus are calling for tax legislation to be
completed before 2015, some say the possible leadership changes
make a delay more probable.  Neither Wyden nor the possible contenders for the Ways and
Means chairmanship have much incentive to move quickly, knowing
they could inherit the tax issue after 2014, John Buckley, a
former chief Democratic tax counsel on the House Ways and Means
Committee, said in an interview.  “Baucus’s retirement and Camp’s term limits created an
incentive for them and only them to pursue tax reform,” Buckley
said. “The rest of them, why would they take a difficult vote
for the legacy of Max Baucus or Dave Camp?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Heller in Washington at 
 mheller33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  