-- Soybean Futures Rise to 10-Week High on U.S.Crop Concerns
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-08-21T19:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/corn-drops-for-second-day-as-yields-seen-higher-soybeans-fall.html
Soybean futures rose to a two-month
high and corn gained on concern that dry weather in the U.S.
Midwest will reduce yields after rain delayed crop development.
Wheat advanced.  Precipitation in the next 10 days will fall mostly in
northern and eastern areas and probably won’t bring “notable
relief” to the dry Midwest, Commodity Weather Group said in a
report. Corn and soybeans are maturing more slowly than normal
following planting delays and below-average temperatures, a U.S.
Department of Agriculture report showed Aug. 19, leaving crops
at risk for frost.  “Some rain is going to hit eastern  Nebraska  and northern
 Iowa , but we won’t have any blanket moisture that will cover the
Corn Belt,” Larry Glenn, an analyst at Frontier Ag in Quinter,
 Kansas , said in a telephone interview. “People are talking
about reduced yields even if we have a normal frost.”  Soybean futures for November delivery gained 1 percent to
settle at $13.04 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade, after reaching $13.19, the highest for a most-active
contract since June 19.  Yields in Nebraska may be below the average in the previous
three years because of drought, according to findings yesterday
on the Pro Farmer Midwest Crop Tour.  Corn futures for December delivery rose 1.6 percent to
$4.8325 a bushel in  Chicago . The price has tumbled 31 percent
this year amid forecasts for the biggest domestic harvest ever.  Wheat futures for December delivery climbed 0.5 percent to
$6.4925 a bushel on the CBOT.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, followed by soybeans, hay
and wheat, USDA data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  