-- Credit Suisse Sells Its First Public Tier 1 Contingent Bonds
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-08-21T16:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/credit-suisse-plans-to-sell-first-public-tier-1-contingent-bonds.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-biggest Swiss bank, sold its first public Tier 1 contingent
capital notes, bonds that will be written off if the lender’s
capital ratios drop below a preset level.  The Zurich-based bank issued 250 million Swiss francs ($272
million) of undated notes paying a coupon of 6 percent,
according to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to
be identified because the terms aren’t set. The Tier 1 bonds,
the most junior layer of  debt capital , will be written off
rather than convert to equity if the bank’s  capital ratios  fall
below 5.125 percent, the person said.  Switzerland , with 8 million inhabitants, hosts two of the
world’s biggest banks. It’s seeking to protect its lenders
against future crises by tightening  capital requirements  after
UBS AG had to be rescued in 2008. Credit Suisse’s more-senior
Tier 2 contingent bonds due August 2023 it sold earlier this
month carried a higher coupon of 6.5 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The coupon on the latest deal reflects just how much more
favorable the Swiss franc market is,” said  Simon Adamson , an
analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  London . “That’s well below what
it would have to pay on an international issue.”  Credit Suisse, which sold the notes to help it achieve a
capital ratio of 19 percent by 2019, has the option of repaying
the debt after five years, the person said. As a Tier 1
instrument, the borrower can suspend coupon payments without
defaulting and the missed coupons don’t have to be made up when
payments restart.  Private Placement  The notes are expected to be rated BB+, the highest
speculative grade, at  Fitch Ratings , the person said. The issuer
is rated A, five steps above junk.  The August 2023 Tier 2 bonds, whose coupon payments are
obligatory, will be written off if Credit Suisse’s capital
ratios fall below 5 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with a trigger of 5.125 percent for
today’s deal, making it more susceptible to losses.  The bank agreed to privately issue the equivalent of 6
billion Swiss francs of Tier 1 contingent capital notes
denominated in francs and U.S. dollars, according to an e-mailed
statement in February 2011. The buyers were Qatar Holding LLC
and The Olayan Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  