-- TCW Spinoff EIG Is Said to Cap Energy Fund at $6 Billion
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-08-21T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/tcw-spinoff-eig-is-said-to-cap-energy-fund-at-6-billion.html
EIG Global Energy Partners LLC, the
asset manager spun off from TCW Group Inc. in January 2011,
set a limit of $6 billion on its latest energy offering that
would make it one of the biggest private-equity funds focused on
the industry, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The firm, based in  Washington , capped the fund last month
in response to requests by large investors who didn’t want it to
grow beyond that size, said one of the people asking not to be
named because the information isn’t public. EIG Energy Fund XVI
LP, which is targeting $4.25 billion, closed last week on $4
billion and expects to complete fundraising by the end of the
month, the people said.  Laurie Labuda, a spokeswoman at APCO Worldwide, declined to
comment on behalf of EIG.  EIG, which makes mezzanine and private-equity investments
in energy, infrastructure and natural-resource businesses
globally, is attracting interest in a crowded market where
managers are seeking billions of dollars to take advantage of
growth opportunities.  Riverstone Holdings LLC raised $7.7
billion for a new private-equity energy fund in June. First
Reserve Corp. lowered the maximum amount it will seek for its
latest fund to $5 billion from $6 billion, three people familiar
with the matter said in May.  Fund Returns  EIG, which is partly owned by the sovereign wealth fund
China Investment Corp., expects to scale back some commitments
amid excess demand for its latest vehicle, said one of the
people. The fund’s predecessor raised $4.12 billion in 2011 and
was generating a 22 percent internal rate of return as of March
31, according to performance data from New Mexico Educational
Retirement Board.  The new fund will invest globally with an emphasis on the
U.S.,  Canada , Western Europe and  Australia , according to a fund
launch letter sent to investors in February. EIG has opened two
offices in the past two years, in Hong Kong and Rio de Janeiro.
Last week, EIG took control of LLX Logistica SA, the logistics
unit of former Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista . EIG agreed to
buy as much as 1.3 billion reais ($543 million) of new shares in
the company at 1.20 reais each, making it the controlling
shareholder.  The firm, whose team has invested $15 billion since 1982,
was formerly the energy and infrastructure unit of TCW Group.
EIG is led by Blair Thomas, Kurt Talbot and Randall Wade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Rossa at 
 jrossa@bloomberg.net  