-- Democratic Lawmaker Sues IRS Over Rules for Tax-Exemption
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-08-21T20:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/democratic-lawmaker-sues-irs-over-rules-for-tax-exemption.html
Democratic U.S. Representative Chris  Van Hollen  sued the  Internal Revenue Service  to force the agency
to adopt regulations that mirror federal law on determining
whether a group should be given tax-exempt status.  The IRS is illegally allowing a category of tax-exempt
groups to engage in election-related activity by loosely
interpreting a requirement in the law that they be engaged
exclusively in promoting social welfare, according to the
complaint that  Maryland ’s Van Hollen filed today in federal
court in Washington.  “By redefining ‘exclusively’ as ‘primarily’ in violation
of the clear terms of its governing statutes, the IRS permits
tax-exempt social welfare organizations to engage in substantial
electoral activities in contravention of the law,” Van Hollen
and three advocacy groups said in the complaint.  The issue of tax-exempt groups spending money on elections
triggered a political furor after the IRS disclosed in May that
it gave extra scrutiny to organizations seeking nonprofit status
if they had “tea party” or “patriot” in their name.  Later, Representative  Sander Levin , a Michigan Democrat,
said groups with names tied to liberal causes were also
subjected to additional scrutiny.  The revelations triggered congressional hearings, the
resignation of acting IRS Commissioner  Steven Miller  and a
Justice Department investigation.  ‘527’ Organizations  The problem with allowing social welfare groups to spend
money on elections is that they don’t have to disclose who their
donors are, giving them an advantage over other tax-exempt
political fundraising entities known as “527” organizations,
which are required to publicly list their contributors,
according to Van Hollen’s suit.  Social welfare groups “are permitted to raise funds for
electoral purposes without complying with the requirements
imposed on 527 political organizations,” Van Hollen said in the
complaint.  Van Hollen was in charge of recruiting Democratic
candidates for House seats in the 2008 and 2010 election cycles.  A similar lawsuit was filed in May by the Washington-based
watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in
 Washington .  Not Required  The share of election spending by non-political party
groups not required to disclose the identity of donors has
increased to 30 percent in 2012 from 1 percent in 2006,
according to a  July report  by the Committee for  Economic
Development , a non-profit business-led public policy group in
Washington.  Much of the increase occurred after the  Supreme Court ’s
2010 Citizen’s United ruling, which removed limits on
independent election spending by corporations and labor unions.  Two of the plaintiffs in the Van Hollen suit, Democracy 21
and the Campaign Legal Center, petitioned the IRS in July 2011
to issue rules in line with the law. The tax agency took no
action on the request, according to  Paul Ryan , senior counsel
for the Campaign Legal Center.  The suit asks the court to order the IRS to conduct the
rulemaking.  Dean Patterson , an IRS spokesman, declined to comment on
the suit.  The case is Van Hollen v. IRS, 13-cv-01276, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  