-- Denmark Says Bond Sales Won’t Grow to Finance Public Works
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-08-22T12:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/denmark-says-bond-issuance-won-t-grow-to-finance-public-works.html
Denmark ’s government said it won’t
deviate from debt issuance targets set in past years even as it
steps up infrastructure spending.  Less than a week before Denmark’s Social Democrat-led
government unveils its 2014 budget proposal, Finance Minister
Bjarne Corydon said the AAA rated nation’s supply of bonds is
unlikely to change.  “We’re trying to plan funding for public projects as
rationally as possible,” Corydon said yesterday in an
interview. “But you shouldn’t expect any major new policy
changes on government bond issuance.”  The government of Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt in
May said it plans 139 billion kroner ($25 billion) this year in
krone-denominated borrowing, with a total requirement of 164
billion kroner. Since then, the yield on Denmark’s benchmark 10-year debt has risen to 2.09 percent from as low as 1.49 percent
in May as a recovery in the euro zone weakens demand for haven
assets.  Corydon’s comments follow assurances from Economy Minister
Margrethe Vestager last week that Denmark won’t unveil further
stimulus packages as the government focuses on keeping its
deficit within the European Union’s 3 percent limit of gross
domestic product.  Denmark’s  $355 billion economy stagnated  in the first
quarter after shrinking 0.5 percent in 2012. The nation has
fallen behind neighboring Norway and  Sweden , where smaller debt
burdens and faster growth rates have underpinned demand. Danes,
the world’s most indebted people, have hesitated to spend after
house prices plunged about 20 percent since their 2007 peak.  Revised Forecasts  The government on May 27 cut its growth forecast for this
year to 0.5 percent from the 0.7 percent predicted in April. It
kept its 1.6 percent growth estimate for 2014. The government is
due to publish revised forecasts on Aug. 27.  Both Vestager and Corydon have argued that Denmark’s
restrained economic policies have supported record low interest
rates. The central bank’s efforts to defend the krone’s peg to
the euro have left its deposit rate below zero since July last
year.  The  monetary stimulus  has so far failed to create jobs.
Danish unemployment, including people in vocational training
programs, was 5.8 percent in June, compared with as low as 2.5
in 2008.  “You can’t find a quick-fix for a crisis,” Corydon said.
“You need to work on both long- and short-term issues. We need
to work on structural issues and competitiveness.”  Thorning-Schmidt pledged in February to lift annual
economic growth to 2 percent on average from 2014 through 2020,
and unveiled plans to create 150,000 private jobs by 2020
through increased public spending and corporate tax cuts. The
measures will cost the state 75 billion kroner ($13 billion).  “It’s about following the rules we’ve passed ourselves to
ensure that the economy is ok,” Corydon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  