-- Detroit Seeks to Bar Syncora From Disrupting Casino Cash
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   S t e v e n   R a p h a e l
-- 2013-08-22T12:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/detroit-to-meet-with-syncora-on-status-of-restraining-order.html
Detroit  urged the judge overseeing
its $18 billion bankruptcy to prevent bond-insurer Syncora
Guarantee Inc. from blocking the city’s access to casino tax
revenue.  Without access to the $175 million the tax annually raises,
the city will be handicapped as it tries to reorganize and exit
bankruptcy, attorney Corinne Ball told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Steven Rhodes at hearing in Detroit yesterday.  “This is probably the highest-quality tax stream the city
has,” Ball said. “Being able to use the revenue stream is
pivotal” to the city’s reorganization strategy.  Syncora wants cash from the tax to be held by a custodian
and not distributed to the city. The money is considered
collateral for payments the city owes on interest rate swap
contracts.  Syncora is suing the banks that are part of those
contracts, UBS AG and Merrill Lynch Capital Services Inc., in
 New York , trying to stop them from exiting the swaps. Syncora
argues that it could be harmed should the city and the banks end
the swaps.  Syncora attorney Stephen Hackney said the bond insurer has
the right to try to block the casino money because it may have
to pay out should the city fail to meet its swaps obligations.  No Ruling  Rhodes didn’t immediately rule on the city’s request that
he find the U.S. Bankruptcy Code’s automatic stay of litigation
applies to the casino money.  Detroit filed bankruptcy last month saying it didn’t have
enough money to pay its debts after decades of economic decline
decimated the city’s finances.  Before the two sides began arguing about the casino money,
Detroit attorney Gregory Shumaker told Rhodes that the city
would give creditors more access to a virtual data room that
contains more than 70,000 pages of information about the city’s
finances.  Creditors had complained to Rhodes earlier in the hearing
that the city was trying to force them to sign non-disclosure
agreements before giving access to the computerized documents.
The agreements would have barred the creditors from making the
documents public.  Rhodes appeared to support the creditors’ position when he
questioned Shumaker about why the city needed to prevent
creditors from making documents about Detroit’s finances public.  “In bankruptcy, why wouldn’t everything be discoverable?”
Rhodes asked, referring to the official process under which
opposing parties in a court case exchange information. “Doesn’t
the city want every one of its citizens to see what its
financial future will look like?”  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Detroit at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Raphael in Detroit at 
 sraphael5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  