-- Deutsche Bank Hired by BGP Investment for European CMBS Deal
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-08-21T12:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/deutsche-bank-hired-by-bgp-investment-for-european-cmbs-issue.html
BGP Investment Sarl, a Luxembourg-based real estate investor, hired Deutsche Bank to arrange about
386 million euros ($517 million) of commercial mortgage-backed
bonds.  The securities will refinance a maturing CMBS transaction,
Quokka Finance Plc, and the transaction is expected to close by
the end of this month, Mark Dunstan, managing director at BGP,
said in a telephone interview. The proposed bonds, to be backed
by pools of German residential mortgages, will not be rated,
Dunstan said. He declined to comment on the terms of the
transaction.  “The interest rate environment is good for refinancing and
the market is open whereas a year ago it was very illiquid,”
said Dunstan. “The German multifamily collateral is good
quality and well-liked by investors.”  Sales of CMBS bonds in  Europe  totaled 5.4 billion euros
this year, up from 3.2 billion euros sold in all of 2012,
according to data from JPMorgan Chase & Co. This year’s largest
European CMBS, the 2.1 billion-euro German Residential Funding
2013-1 Plc transaction, was raised by  Gagfah SA (GFJ)  and helped repay
a previous mortgage-backed bond, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  BGP, which has about 1.3 billion euros of real estate
assets, was established in 2005 as a joint venture between
Babcock & Brown Ltd. and  GPT Group (GPT) , which have since
relinquished control of the business, according to a statement
on BGP’s  website .  The existing deal was issued in August 2006 raising 617.5
million euros of securities split into five portions. The 11
underlying loans now total about 550 million euros and are due
to repay this year, Bloomberg data show. The loans are secured
by about 25,000 residential, commercial, parking and other
units, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  