-- Diamond Foods to Pay $11 Million to Settle Investor Suit
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-08-21T20:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/diamond-foods-to-pay-11-million-to-settle-investor-suit.html
Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND)  agreed to pay $11
million in cash to settle a class-action lawsuit over accounting
errors that led to earnings restatements and ended its bid for
the Pringles potato-chip brand.  Diamond also will issue 4.45 million common shares to a
settlement fund to resolve claims on behalf of investors who
bought stock from Oct. 5, 2010, to Feb. 8, 2012, the San
Francisco-based company said today in a statement. Diamond
denied all claims of wrongdoing or liability in the suit, which
targeted the snack-and-nut company and two former officers.  Diamond rose 19 percent to $22.79 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading.  “We believe this proposed settlement eliminates the burden
of further time, expense and risk related to the class action,”
Chief Executive Officer Brian J. Driscoll said in the statement.  The accord is valued at $96.1 million based on Diamond’s
closing share price yesterday, according to court documents
filed today. Diamond rose as much as 22 percent today after
giving a fiscal fourth-quarter sales outlook that exceeded
estimates.  In February, a Delaware judge threw out an investor suit
against the company brought by a retirement fund for Hialeah,
 Florida , employees, saying their claims should be decided by a
court overseeing a similar case in  California . The retirement
fund had blamed directors for Diamond’s inability to file its
financial statements and derailing its planned $2.4 billion
acquisition of  Procter & Gamble Co .’s Pringles division.  A portion of the $11 million settlement announced today
will be funded by Diamond’s insurers, the company said. The
accord is subject to court approval.  The case is In re Diamond Foods Inc. Securities Litigation,
11-cv-05386, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  