-- Disney Said Cutting 2.3% of Positions at ABC TV Division
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-08-21T20:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/disney-abc-tv-division-said-to-cut-175-jobs-in-efficiency-drive.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC television
division is cutting about 175 jobs as part of a restructuring of
the broadcast business, according to a person with knowledge of
the situation.  The cuts amount to about 2.3 percent of the unit’s
approximately 7,600  employees , said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the numbers aren’t being announced. ABC
lost about 10 percent of its prime-time viewers in a key
audience demographic last season.  The move follows several hundred job cuts at Disney’s ESPN
and the film and interactive divisions. ABC is eliminating
positions as the network rolls out new technology, including a
Watch ABC application for mobile devices that provides a live-stream of its broadcast. The primary areas affected will be ABC
operations and owned stations in eight markets, including New
York and  Los Angeles , the person said.  “As technological advances continue to alter the
competitive landscape and viewer habits, it’s incumbent upon us
to stay ahead of the curve,” Burbank, California-based ABC said
today in an e-mailed statement. “To that end, we’ve undergone a
review of our organizational structures and processes.”  The restructuring will begin tomorrow and take about a week
to complete, the person said. Changes will occur across the
Disney/ABC Television Group, which includes the Disney Channel
and ABC Family cable networks, the person said. Some new
positions may also be created, the person said.  TV Ratings  Disney, owner of theme parks in California and  Florida , had
about 166,000  employees  at the end of September 2012, according
to a company filing.  ABC finished the prime-time TV season in May last among the
major broadcast networks in viewers ages 18 to 49, the group
most targeted by advertisers, according to Nielsen data. The
network averaged 7.84 million total viewers a night for second
place among the four major U.S. broadcast networks.  Disney, the world’s largest entertainment company, fell 1.2
percent to $61.14 at the close in  New York . The stock has gained
23  percent  this year, beating the 15 percent gain of the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  