-- Disney’s ESPN Holds Preliminary Talks for Web-Based TV
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-08-21T22:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/disney-s-espn-holds-preliminary-talks-for-web-based-pay-tv.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN sports
network has held preliminary talks to offer programming on a
Web-based TV service like those proposed by  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Sony
Corp. and  Intel Corp. (INTC)   An Internet TV provider would have to pay as much or more
than cable and satellite services, President John Skipper said
today at ESPN’s campus in Bristol,  Connecticut . He declined to
specify the companies ESPN has spoken with.  A Web-based service would have to buy “the whole suite of
products,” Skipper said. “We’re not going to offer one-offs.”
The network includes the flagship channel, plus others such as
ESPN2, ESPN News and mobile applications offered to existing
pay-TV subscribers.  Access to ESPN would give new online TV providers instant
credibility and a foothold to compete with established players
like Comcast Corp. and DirecTV. The network is the most valuable
channel on pay TV, garnering the highest subscriber fees on
basic cable, according to researcher SNL Kagan.  Talks with alternative TV providers are exploratory and any
new platform would have to offer a package of channels
comparable to what other operators provide, according to Chris LaPlaca, a spokesman for ESPN.  To get deals done with ESPN and other networks, the new
providers will have to guarantee minimum subscriber numbers and
pay the associated fees even if fewer viewers sign up,  David Bank , an analyst at RBC Capital in  New York , wrote in an e-mail.  “They have to be ‘take or pay’ contracts,” said Bank, who
has an outperform rating on Disney shares. “If you can’t sign
that many up, you still have to pay.”  Biggest Business  Professional sports leagues won’t put a major event online
only, Skipper said. They “all love to float the idea because
there will be more competition for rights.”  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , fell 1.2 percent to
$61.14 at the close in New York. The stock has gained 23 percent
this year, compared with 15 percent for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  TV networks led by ESPN are Disney’s largest and most-profitable business, accounting for 46 percent of revenue and 69
percent of operating profit in the latest quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The sports network, 20 percent owned
by Hearst Corp., has 98 million subscribers, according to
Disney’s most recent annual report.  Dan Race, a Sony spokesman, declined to comment. The
company is developing a Web-based pay TV service for its game
consoles and TV sets, people familiar with the matter have said.  $100 Billion  Sony, Google, Intel and Apple Inc. are trying to obtain
programming rights to win TV viewers from cable, phone and
satellite companies. The tech giants plan to use existing cable,
fiber and wireless networks, as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  does, to offer Web-based TV in living rooms and on tablets and smartphones.  The companies are seeking to grab a slice of the $100
billion a year in U.S. pay-TV fees collected by cable, phone and
satellite providers. On average, U.S. viewers pay about $80 a
month for programming bundles, with the revenue shared by
broadcast and cable networks. The TV industry also collects $59
billion a year in ad sales.  Tokyo-based Sony recently reached a preliminary agreement
with Viacom Inc. for access to programming such as Nickelodeon
and  Comedy Central , a person familiar with the matter said last
week. Apple is also working on a TV service.  Jon Carvill, an Intel spokesman, declined to comment. Lily
Lin, a spokeswoman for  Mountain View , California-based Google,
didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Sony American depositary receipts fell 1.5 percent to
$19.66, while Intel, based in  Santa Clara , California, retreated
1.6 percent to $22.17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  