-- Disney to Shutter 10-Year-Old Toontown Multiplayer Game
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2013-08-21T20:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/disney-to-shutter-10-year-old-toontown-multiplayer-game.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  will close its 10-year-old  Toontown Online  video game and two other virtual worlds
for kids, as the company’s interactive unit shifts resources
toward the larger Club Penguin and to mobile games.  Toontown, in which members form teams to fight evil robots,
will close on Sept. 19, according to a website announcement. The
$9.95-a-month game, which Disney called the first massively
multiplayer online title for kids and families, made its debut
in June 2003. Pirates of the Caribbean Online and Disney Fairies
Pixie Hollow will also close.  “We are shifting our development focus toward other online
and mobile play experiences, such as Club Penguin and a growing
selection of Disney Mobile apps,” the Burbank, California-based
company said in an e-mailed statement.  The changes leave the $7.95-a-month Club Penguin as the
only so-called virtual world operated by Disney. The site,
acquired in 2007, is the largest of its kind, according to the
company, which is asking players to move there. Club Penguin has
added content tied to characters from “ Star Wars ” and Pixar
films such as “Monsters University.” More than 200 million
penguin characters have been created, Variety reported in July.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger  has been
working to shore up Disney’s interactive unit, which  lost  $216
million last year. This week, the company introduced its
Infinity video-game system, which features collectibles
including Pixar’s Buzz Lightyear and Captain Jack Sparrow from
“Pirates of the Caribbean.”  Disney, the world’s largest entertainment company, fell 1.2
percent to $61.14 at the close in  New York . The stock has
 climbed  23 percent this year, beating the 15 percent gain of the
benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  