-- Dubai’s Emirates NBD to Boost Fees on $12 Billion Debt Deals
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-08-21T09:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/dubai-s-emirates-nbd-to-boost-fees-on-12-billion-debt-deals-1-.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the United Arab
Emirates’ biggest bank by assets, expects to raise more than $12
billion for clients in the remainder of the year, boosting
investment banking income as the lender seeks expansion.  The Dubai government-controlled lender has mandates for
about 20 bond and loan deals after helping raise $14.6 billion
for clients in 23 such transactions so far this year, Giel-Jan Van Der Tol, the lender’s head of wholesale banking, said in an
interview yesterday. The deals have an average size of about
$500 million and there’s issuer interest from countries where
customers invest in Shariah-compliant debt, he said.  The new transactions will raise revenue at the lender’s
wholesale banking unit by more than 10 percent over the next 12
month and loan growth by 6 percent, he said. The bank also plans
to expand into other countries in East Asia by opening
representative offices and branches because of limited growth
opportunities in the local market, van der Tol said.  Issuers in the U.A.E., the second-biggest Arab economy,
rushed to sell bonds in the first-half to take advantage of
record-low yields and global investor demand. The sales helped
make Emirates NBD the fifth-biggest arranger of bonds this year
in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, which also includes
Saudi Arabia and Qatar, up from 15th last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond Sales  Bond sales in the GCC surged to a record $42.8 billion last
year. Issues have dropped 14 percent this year compared with the
year-earlier period after investor concern that the U.S. Federal
Reserve will taper its bond buying program boosted yields. The
five-year mid-swap rate, a bond pricing benchmark, fell to a
more than 20-year low of 0.72 percent in December before rising
to 1.74 percent yesterday.  Earnings are rebounding at Emirates NBD as Dubai’s economy
improves, aided by a recovery in tourism, trade and real-estate.
The bank was among local lenders hurt by Dubai’s property crash,
which pushed companies like Dubai World to delay debt payments.  Emirates NBD’s  shares  fell 1.8 percent to 5.5 dirhams at
1:42 p.m. in Dubai, while the benchmark index was up 0.1
percent. The shares have almost doubled this year compared with
a 64 percent increase in the DFM General Index.  This year’s deals have “really helped us in our investment
banking capabilities and in generating business in other parts
of the world,” van der Tol said. In the local loans market,
growth has been driven mainly by mid-size companies, he said.  Deals Emirates NBD helped arrange this year include a $750
million bond for Emirates airlines in February and a $450
million Islamic bond for Saudi Arabia’s Dar Al-Arkan Real Estate
Development Co. in May. It also helped manage a $2.55 billion
syndicated loan facility for Investment Corp. of Dubai in June.  New CEO  The bank, which hired Shayne Nelson from Standard Chartered
Plc as chief executive officer to succeed Rick Pudner later this
year, reported a 40 percent increase in first-half profit to
1.81 billion dirhams ($493 million). Profit at the wholesale
bank, which includes income from corporate loans and investment
banking fees, jumped 76 percent to 532 million dirhams, it said.  The bank reorganised its wholesale banking division last
year and has planned a push into foreign markets, a focus on
local emerging companies and a boost of its fee business as key
to growth, van der Tol said. The wholesale bank has about 330
employees and it will hire selectively in the areas of
transaction banking, factoring and trade finance, he said.  Far East  Emirates NBD’s loans rose 6 percent in the six months
through June to 231.8 billion dirhams. Overall loans of the
U.A.E.’s 51 operating banks, which include  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  increased 4.4 percent over the period to 1.15
trillion dirhams, according to data from the central bank.  Emirates NBD plans to boost revenue from its international
business to 20 percent of the total over the next three to five
years, from about 5 percent now. Earlier this year, it completed
the purchase of French bank BNP Paribas SA’s Egyptian unit in a
$500 million deal as part of a plan to expand in North Africa.  “Later this year, you will see our international presence
grow further, most likely in the Far East, but not in the form
of an acquisition,” van der Tol said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  