-- Echo Shares Rise as Sydney Casino Revenue Climbs: Sydney Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-08-22T07:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/echo-net-income-misses-estimates-as-consumer-spending-weakens.html
Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP)  rose
to the highest level in a month in Sydney trading after the
Australian casino operator reported growing revenue, offsetting
concerns that a slowing economy may crimp  consumer spending .  The shares gained 1.1 percent to A$2.75 at the close in
Sydney, their highest closing level since July 18. Strong growth
in  revenue  from high-rolling gamblers boosted sales 6.8 percent
in the first seven weeks of the current fiscal year, “driving
solid profitability growth,” the Brisbane-based company said in
a regulatory statement today.  The increase suggested bets from offshore high rollers will
cushion weak domestic spending which reduced  gaming tax revenue 
in the three months ended March. Echo today reported net income
of A$84 million ($75 million) for the year ended June, lagging
the A$123 million average of five analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company will see “continued growth across the domestic
business into the coming year” as a result of an expected
improvement in consumer sentiment following a Sept. 7 election
and the reintroduction of a  loyalty program  at Sydney’s Star
casino, Lachlan Fitt, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in
Sydney, wrote in a note to clients today.  Echo, vying with billionaire  James Packer  for revenue from
Asian gamblers, is also benefiting from a cost-cutting program,
Fitt said. The cuts reduced operating spending by about A$40
million during the year, compared with a A$30 million savings
forecast from February. The company said it will save more than
A$60 million next year.  Harbor Rival  Echo’s shares slumped 14 percent in July, when Packer’s
 Crown Ltd. (CWN)  moved a step closer to winning approval for a rival
casino on a stretch of Sydney’s harbor shore adjacent to the
Star complex. Packer’s 350-room hotel tower would target only
VIP gamblers and wouldn’t be allowed to operate  slot machines ,
according to Crown’s planning application to the New South Wales
state government.  “Things are not deteriorating,” Echo’s Chief Executive
Officer John Redmond said in a conference call with investors
after the results. Redmond said he’s “very excited” about the
future of the company’s VIP business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  