-- Emerging Stocks Decline After Fed Minutes as Real Tumbles
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-08-21T21:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/emerging-stocks-drop-to-six-week-low-before-fed-as-india-rallies.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped for a
fifth day after  Federal Reserve ’s minutes showed officials
support Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan for trimming stimulus.
 Brazil ’s real sank to the lowest level since December 2008.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 0.9 percent to
924.19. The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index declined to the
lowest level since October after  Turkey ’s central bank kept its
benchmark unchanged. Brazil’s Ibovespa fell a second day,
erasing an earlier advance of as much as 1.3 percent, while the
real slid 2.5 percent, pacing losses among 19 of the 24
developing-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Fed officials were “broadly comfortable” with the plan to
start reducing bond buying later this year if the American
economy improves, with a few saying tapering might be needed
soon, minutes of their July meeting show. The benchmark measure
for  emerging markets  has plunged about 12 percent since May 22,
when the Fed signaled its asset-buying program could be trimmed
if the economy showed a sustained recovery.  “There was still a glimmer of hope tapering would start
later; that’s probably gone now,” Sameer Samana, the St. Louis-based international strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors LLC, said
by phone. His firm oversees about $1.3 trillion. “If they
weren’t going to start tapering in September, they would
probably have said something in these minutes.”  All 10 groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell today
as consumer and health-care companies had the biggest decline.
The  broad measure  dropped 12 percent this year, compared with a
11 percent surge in the MSCI World Index. The  gauge  of
developing nations is trading at 9.8 times estimated earnings,
below the valuation of developed markets of 13.5.  Emerging ETF  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund fell 2.3 percent at $37.59. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
surged 6.4 percent to 26.02.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  extended a two-day drop to 2.3 percent,
led by meatpacker JBS SA. The real sank 17 percent in the past
three months, the most among emerging-market dollar counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg.  Russian stocks declined for a second day as a drop in the
price of oil offset gains by the country’s largest wireless
carrier. The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index slid 3.5 percent,
led by  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS. (GARAN)   Rupee Weakens  The rupee weakened to 64.0450 per dollar in Mumbai,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched an all-time low of 64.55 earlier. The currency’s slump
caused the benchmark  stock index  to erase gains of as much as
1.8 percent. The  Sensex (SENSEX)  dropped 1.9 percent to the lowest close
since Sept. 11.  Most Chinese stocks rose, led by energy and technology
companies. Everbright Securities Co. extended losses after its
head of proprietary trading was suspended following a trading
error last week.  China Oilfield Services Ltd. (2883)  climbed to the
highest level in six months after its chief financial officer
said the company sees strong growth in deep water drilling.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell 0.03 percentage point to 337 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  