-- Tesla CEO Weighs Europe, Asia Plants for Mass-Market Car
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-08-22T20:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/tesla-ceo-studies-europe-asia-plants-for-mass-market-car.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  Chief Executive
Officer  Elon Musk  said the electric-car maker intends to add
factories in Europe and  Asia , anticipating volume gains from a
planned mass-market battery car.  The company this year plans to make at least 21,000 of its
$70,000 Model S premium sedans at its Fremont, California,
plant, and double that in 2014. While the factory has capacity
to produce as many as 500,000 vehicles a year, the addition of a
smaller electric car priced about half that of Model S will
require additional plants, Musk said.  “We’ll try to locate those close to where people are,
close to where the customers are, to minimize the logistics
costs of getting the car to them,” the Tesla co-founder said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu . “I think
long term you can see Tesla establishing factories in Europe, in
other parts of the U.S. and in Asia.”  Shares of Tesla, which closed at a record high today, have
surged more than  fourfold  this year, pushing its market value
beyond some established carmakers such as  Fiat SpA (F) , the majority
owner of Chrysler Group LLC. The  Palo Alto , California-based
company reported its first profitable quarters this year,
excluding some items, and has seen demand for the Model S
outstrip its ability to build the car.  Among the company’s accolades, Model S was named 2013 “Car
of the Year” by Motor Trend magazine;  Consumer Reports  in a May
review rated it among the best it’s ever tested; and this week
Tesla said it received top crash and safety ratings in tests by
the  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration .  Tesla Expansion  Musk provided no details on how much or when Tesla would
invest in more factories. The company has opened a small
facility in Tilburg,  Netherlands , where it’s assembling Model S
components shipped from California to Europe, for cars it has
begun selling there.  While Tesla’s next vehicle, the Model X electric sport-utility vehicle, goes into production at Fremont late next year,
the timing of the smaller, lower-priced vehicle, isn’t firm.  “Certainly, within five years we’ll have our mass-market
electric car available,” Musk told Liu, who is also a
correspondent for ABC News. “We’ll start seeing hundreds of
thousands of electric cars going to market every year.”  Musk, in previous interviews, has said the lower-priced car
would arrive in about three or four years.  Trademark Application  The company this month filed an application with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark office to use the name  Model E  for an
automobile. Shanna Hendriks, a Tesla spokeswoman, declined to
comment on whether that’s intended for the still-unnamed mass-market electric car. The trademark filing was reported Aug. 20
by the website  VentureBeat .  In an interview at the Fremont factory last month, Musk
said building another plant in California would be challenging,
owing to the state’s high costs. The Fremont factory was opened
in the 1960s by the predecessor of  General Motors Co. (GM)  It became
a joint-venture plant for GM and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  in 1984 and
was acquired by Tesla in 2010.  “The real tough question is, beyond this plant, would we
establish another plant in California?” Musk said in the July
interview. “That’s where it gets really tricky. What I can say
is we do want to ultimately bring this plant to its original
production capacity of half a million vehicles a year.”  Liu’s interview was telecast on ABC’s “Nightline.”  Tesla rose 6.2 percent to $157.10 at the close in New York.
The shares have surged 364 percent this year, compared with a 17
percent increase for the Russell 1000 Index. Musk’s personal net
worth has more than tripled this year to $7.8 billion, according
to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  