-- Tetangco Sees Herd Mentality Boosting Volatility: Southeast Asia
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o ,   R i c h a r d   F r o s t   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-08-22T09:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/tetangco-sees-herd-mentality-boosting-volatility-southeast-asia.html
Philippine central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco is prepared for volatility in local markets
after flooding led to a three-day trading suspension while
regional stocks sank to one-year lows and currencies weakened.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index sank as much as 6.9
percent today, the most in five years, before closing 6 percent
lower. The peso fell 1.1 percent to 44.167 per dollar, the
weakest since February 2011. The country’s  stock  exchange was
shut this week and trading of currencies and government bonds
was halted because of floods in  Manila  and a public holiday
yesterday. The MSCI  Southeast Asia  Index tumbled 5.5 percent
during the period to the lowest level since July 2012.  The combination of  Indonesia ’s record current-account gap,
 Thailand ’s economic contraction and increased speculation that
the  Federal Reserve  will pare stimulus has spurred foreigners to
sell $909 million of shares in the two Southeast Asian nations
this week. Investors first began pulling money out of Thai,
Indonesian and Philippine stocks three months ago after Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernankesignaled on May 22 he may reduce bond
purchases that spurred capital inflows into  emerging markets .  “From experience, we’ve seen markets not only overreact,
they also move in herd,” Tetangco, the head of Bangko Sentral
ng Pilipinas, said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. The central bank “will assess if movements in the
peso are excessive, relative to movements in other currencies
and other market prices, and then act accordingly to minimize
such volatility in the  exchange rate ,” Tetangco said.  Bigger Swings  Indonesia’s rupiah weakened 3.7 percent and the  Thai baht 
dropped 1.9 percent in the past three days.  One-month implied volatility for the peso, a gauge of
expected price swings derived from options, rose 114 basis
points to 6.86 percent in the past three days, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compares with increases of 626 basis points
to 18 percent for the Indonesian rupiah, 138 basis points to
9.74 percent for the Malaysian ringgit and 120 basis points to
7.19 percent for the Thai baht.  The MSCI Southeast Asia index’s 100-day historical
 volatility  increased to 17.1 yesterday, the highest level since
March 2012. Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite Index has tumbled 7.7
percent this week through yesterday and the Thai SET Index
dropped 6.3 percent, the most among equity gauges in 45 emerging
and developed markets tracked by Bloomberg. The FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index fell 2.4 percent during the period.  “Investors are in a risk-off mode in anticipation of a
tapering in U.S. stimulus,”Paul Joseph Garcia, head of the
institutional business at BPI Asset Management Inc., the second-biggest Philippine  money manager , said yesterday.  Government Closure  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index increased 12 percent
this year before today, compared with a 6.9 percent drop in the
MSCI Southeast Asia gauge. The peso has weakened 6.7 percent
against the dollar while the BofA Merrill Lynch  Philippines 
Government Index of local bonds has returned 13 percent.  President  Benigno Aquino  suspended work in government
offices in Manila for a second day on Aug. 20. At least eight
people were killed and more than 100,000 fled their homes amid
heavy rains that swamped as much as 60 percent of Manila and
nearby provinces, according to the disaster and risk-reduction
agency.  While the flooding may curb agricultural production and
lead to higher food prices, it’s unlikely to have a meaningful
impact on the nation’s economic outlook, Garcia said.  Credit Ratings  Gross domestic product in the Philippines increased 7.8
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, the fastest
expansion among 17 Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg.  The nation won its first investment-grade scores from  Fitch
Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  earlier this year. Moody’s
Investors Service, which ranks the nation a step below
investment grade, said last month it’s reviewing the rating for
an upgrade.  “Domestic demand, which remains healthy, is seen to
continue to be a core driver of growth,” Tetangco said.  Philippine markets are vulnerable to foreign outflows as
the Fed moves closer to paring its unprecedented economic
stimulus, according to  Jonathan Ravelas , the chief market
strategist at BDO Unibank.  The Philippines, Thailand and Indonesia led the four-year
rally in global stocks through May as growing local economies
sent corporate profits to record highs and the Fed’s bond-buying
program spurred international investors to seek riskier assets.
The Philippine equity gauge is valued at 18 times projected
earnings for the next 12 months, the highest level in emerging
markets, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fed Stimulus  “Markets that attracted relatively more portfolio money
this year and the previous years when global liquidity was
generous will be vulnerable,” Ravelas said.  The Fed will probably cut its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases next month, according to 65 percent of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13. Fed policy makers were
“broadly comfortable” with Bernanke’s plan to start reducing
bond buying later this year if the economy improves, with a few
saying tapering might be needed soon, minutes of their last
meeting showed yesterday.  “Almost all committee members agreed that a change in the
purchase program was not yet appropriate,” and a few said “it
might soon be time to slow somewhat the pace of purchases as
outlined in that plan,” according to the record of the Federal
Open Market Committee’s July 30-31 gathering.  “Foreign funds have been flowing out of the entire
region,” Pakorn Peetathawatchai, executive vice president at
the Stock Exchange of Thailand, told reporters on Aug. 20. “The
holding reduction will be in every country regardless of their
economic fundamentals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Frost in  Hong Kong  at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  