-- Eurex to Offer Ruble Derivatives With Moscow Exchange
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-08-21T16:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/eurex-to-offer-ruble-derivatives-with-moscow-exchange.html
Eurex will begin offering Russian
currency derivatives with the Moscow Exchange, a day after
announcing plans to enter the foreign-exchange market for the
first time.  Europe’s largest derivatives exchange and the Moscow bourse
signed an agreement in Frankfurt today to create contracts on
two currency pairs in the fourth quarter, Alexander Afanasiev,
chief executive officer of Moscow Exchange and  Andreas Preuss ,
CEO of Eurex, said in a telephone interview today. They plan to
offer euro-ruble and dollar-ruble futures based on the Moscow
Exchange’s settlement prices.  Eurex, a unit of  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , yesterday said it will
introduce exchange-listed derivatives on the six currency pairs
where the bulk of over-the-counter trading takes place as it
expands into an asset class dominated by Chicago-based rival CME
Group Inc. CME, the world’s largest futures exchange, also
offers  ruble-dollar futures .  “The dollar-ruble and euro-ruble futures are popular
instruments in  Russia  and we hope to see similar demand from
European investors,” Afanasiev said.  Exchanges are vying to win market share as volumes in
 currency markets  increase amid regulators’ insistence on greater
transparency. Volumes in the world’s biggest financial market
jumped to a record $5.6 trillion a day in June, according to
data from CLS Bank, which operates the largest foreign-exchange
settlement system.  Product Development  Deutsche Boerse  and the Moscow Exchange, Russia’s main
stock and fixed-income market, said last year that they will
cooperate in areas including product development, technology,
clearing and indexes.  “Our strategic cooperation is young and we have more plans
here, though our main focus remains organic growth,” Eurex’s
Preuss said.  CME is setting up a new European exchange, based in  London ,
that will start with 30 currency futures. On Aug. 1, the company
said record foreign-exchange trading contributed to a 27 percent
increase in second-quarter profit from the year-earlier period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  