-- Europe Prepares for More Greek Aid as German Election Approaches
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k ,   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-08-21T13:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/europe-prepares-for-more-greek-aid-as-german-election-approaches.html
European officials are laying the
political groundwork for fresh Greek aid as  Chancellor Angela Merkel , who has led bailout-weary  Germany  throughout the
region’s debt crisis, battles to win a third term in office.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday
for the first time that there “will have to be a program for
 Greece  once again,” referring to previous euro-area pledges to
provide “ further measures and assistance ” to ease the
country’s debt burden.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said today that the “possible continuation of
Greece’s bailout program and its financing” will be assessed
after a review next month by the so-called troika that oversees
euro-area bailouts. European Central Bank Executive Board member
Joerg Asmussen is in  Athens  to gauge the government’s progess on
economic reforms.  More than three years after its first 110 billion euro
($147 billion) rescue, question marks remain over Greece’s
ability to pay its bills. The country is mired in the sixth year
of a recession that has left  six in 10 young people  without
work. The  International Monetary Fund  predicts the economy will
contract 4.2 percent this year before returning to growth in
2014.  Merkel’s chief challenger in the Sept. 22 election, Social
Democratic candidate Peer Steinbrueck, said Schaeuble’s
admission was proof the government’s policies aren’t working.  “More aid for Greece is a toxic topic for an election
campaign, but I think it’s realistic,” said  Holger Sandte ,
chief European analyst at  Nordea Markets  in Copenhagen.
“Assumptions in Greece’s second aid package were rather
optimistic, and the country’s debt ratio is back at the levels
when we talked about the last haircut.”  The EU targets Greek debt to fall to 124 percent of gross
domestic product in 2020, from a peak the International Monetary
Fund now sees at 176 percent of GDP this year. Euro-area finance
ministers said in November that they’d consider additional
relief if Greece meets its existing program conditions,
including achieving a primary  budget surplus .  Bond Purchases  “The Greeks need until 2020 until they have re-established
debt sustainability according to the calculations we made,”
Schaeuble said. “We will have to help them again so that they
don’t have to pay such high  interest rates  for this maturity.”  In their November statement, euro-area finance chiefs
mentioned an interest-rate reduction on aid loans as a possible
step to ease Greece’s debt burden, along with easing co-financing terms for EU structural funds.  Euro-area nations also pledged to pass on profits from
central bank bond purchases that were conducted as part of the
ECB’s first bond-buying plan. The first of these payments
changed hands last month, when Greece received 1.5 billion euros
along with the latest installment from the second bailout
package.  While those funds keep Greece liquid until after the German
election, IMF staff in July said 4.4 billion euros of funding
for 2014 has yet to be identified. Most of Greece’s debt is now
held by its euro partners and the IMF after investors took part
in the biggest debt restructuring in history last year.  Third Bailout  “The next step is a troika review that will take place in
the autumn,” European Commission spokeswoman  Chantal Hughes 
said today. “This will look at Greece’s economic situation in
more detail and also at implementation of the Greek program.”  Merkel’s chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said today that
Schaeuble’s comments on Greece referred to the existing aid
program schedule for Greece.  As for the possibility of a third bailout program for
Greece, Merkel said she couldn’t say how much might be needed.
“I can’t name or confirm an amount,” she said on Sat.1
television. “We will be able to tell only in the middle of next
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  