-- European Stocks Post Longest Losing Streak in Eight Weeks
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-08-21T16:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/european-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed.html
European stocks  posted their longest
losing streak in eight weeks amid speculation that the minutes
of the  Federal Reserve ’s July meeting will give further details
of when the central bank will slow its monthly bond purchases.  Heineken NV (HEIA)  dropped 4 percent after the world’s third-largest brewer said that profit before some items will not grow
in 2013. HSBC Holdings Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd. slid,
contributing the most to losses by gauges of banks and commodity
producers. Vestas Wind Systems A/S jumped the most in four weeks
as the unprofitable Danish wind-turbine maker named a new chief
executive officer.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 0.5 percent to 300.61 at
the close of trading, extending its lowest level since July 31.
The gauge has  fallen 3.2 percent  from this year’s high on May 22
as speculation mounted that the Fed will start to slow the pace
of its quantitative-easing program next month.  “We think the Fed will start to announce tapering, but we
also expect them to say they are going to be prudent with the
pace of tapering,” said Franz Wenzel, who helps oversee $759
billion as a strategist at AXA Investment Managers in Paris.
“Housing has been a pillar of this recovery and they do not
want to derail that. The Fed will continue to alert investors
that they will not let yields go crazy.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the Stoxx 600 was 23 percent lower than the average of the past
100 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  European Markets  National benchmark indexes declined in 14 of the 18
western-European markets today.  Germany ’s DAX dropped 0.2
percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 fell 1 percent.  France ’s CAC
40 slipped 0.3 percent.  Investors will scrutinize the minutes of the Federal Open
Market Committee’s July 30-31 meeting for signs of when the Fed
will begin to reduce the $85 billion pace of monthly bond
purchases. The U.S. central bank will start to scale back bond
buying next month, according to 65 percent of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg from Aug. 9-13. The median estimate called
for purchases to drop to $75 billion a month. The Fed publishes
the minutes after the close of European trading today.  The Fed has said that the  U.S. economy  must improve in line
with its forecasts for tapering to take place. A report from the
National Association of Realtors showed that  existing house
sales  rose to an annualized 5.39 million in July, the most since
November 2009. That exceeded the median  economist estimate  in a
Bloomberg survey of 5.15 million.  Heineken Slides  Heineken dropped 4 percent to 53.29 euros. The Amsterdam-based company  reported  adjusted earnings before interest and
taxes of 1.33 billion euros ($1.8 billion) for the first half,
missing the average analyst estimate of 1.34 billion euros. The
brewer of the eponymous lager also said that the poor weather in
Europe in the spring will affect its full-year earnings.  “The second quarter is clearly below our expectations for
well-documented reasons, and that will have an impact on total
outlook for the year,” CEO Jean-Francois van Boxmeer said on a
call with reporters.  HSBC, Europe’s largest lender, fell 2.3 percent to 682
pence as bank stocks contributed the most to the Stoxx 600’s
retreat.  BHP Billiton  lost 2.6 percent to 1,873 pence.  Glanbia Plc retreated 3.1 percent to 10.04 euros, its
biggest decline in eight weeks. The Irish dairy producer
repeated its forecast that earnings per share will grow by 8
percent to 10 percent in 2013 because the earnings margin of its
Dairy Ireland business dropped in the first half. The company
said in a  statement  that the subsidiary had a difficult six
months in consumer products.  Vestas, Veolia  Vestas rallied 5.4 percent to 109 kroner after naming
Anders Runevad as CEO. Runevad will succeed Ditlev Engel on
Sept. 1 following two successive years of losses.  The company 
also increased its forecast for free  cash flow  in 2013 to 200
million euros. It had projected positive cash flow this year.  Veolia Environnement SA jumped 8.3 percent to 11.46 euros,
its highest price in 16 months. Morgan Stanley added Europe’s
biggest water company to its best-ideas list.  “Veolia is the most attractive turnaround story in the
sector, moving towards becoming a smaller and leaner company,
and still with leadership positions in promising water and waste
businesses globally,” analyst Emmanuel Turpin wrote.  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG gained 1.6 percent to 85.89
euros. Germany’s Cartel Office has rejected the need for a
competition analysis of Vodafone Group Plc’s acquisition of the
cable provider,  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  reported, citing
the agency’s president, Andreas Mundt.  “We’ve come to the conclusion that the conditions for a
referral request aren’t met and will give it up,” he said.  Royal KPN NV increased 1.6 percent to 2.27 euros.  America
Movil SAB (AMXL)  said it has obtained the funding to finance its 7.2
billion-euro bid for KPN. The Dutch phone company said investors
can vote on the sale of its German business E-Plus to Telefonica
SA at a shareholder meeting on Oct. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  