-- Teva Chairman Frost Backs Management Amid Criticism From Goldman
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   E l l i o t t   G o t k i n e
-- 2013-08-21T13:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/teva-chairman-frost-backs-management-amid-criticism-from-goldman.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
Chairman Phillip Frost said he backed the management’s strategy
following criticism from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan
Stanley analysts who are advising investors to sell.  The drugmaker’s blockbuster multiple sclerosis treatment
Copaxone, which faces potential generic competition as early as
next year, has a “long way to go” as a commercially viable
medicine, Frost, 76, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
from Tel Aviv today. Teva is seeking approval for a new version
of the injected drug that can be taken three times a week,
replacing the daily doses patients must now endure.  “I don’t pay too much attention to what other analysts are
saying,” Frost said. “We need to do what’s important for the
company and I personally have expressed my confidence in the way
I know how to do it, and that’s by buying shares.” Frost
acquired 1 million Teva shares at prices ranging from $37.82 to
$39.57 each, the company said on June 1.  Teva’s shares have lagged behind pharmaceutical peers as
analysts predict Copaxone sales will fall in each of the next
five years on possible generic competition and as patients
choose new oral medicines over an injection. While Chief
Executive Officer Jeremy Levin has pledged to revive growth by
making small acquisitions and developing drugs internally,
Goldman Sachs analyst  Jami Rubin  asked on an Aug. 1 earnings
call whether the board was behind the CEO.  Generic Version  Rubin cut the stock to sell from neutral in July, citing
“0 percent return potential.” Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva
was downgraded to underweight from equalweight by Morgan Stanley
on Aug. 5 as analysts said generic drugmaker  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  may
secure U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for its
generic version of Copaxone in 2014. Teva’s American depositary
receipts have returned 7.3 percent this year, including
dividends, compared with a 21 percent gain for the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Frost was speaking at the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange to mark
the listing of  Opko Health Inc. (OPK) , of which he is the largest
shareholder. He said he hopes to turn the Miami-based drugmaker
into “the next Teva” after the company agreed to purchase Ness
Ziona, Israel-based  Prolor Biotech Inc. (PBTH) , which is developing a
long-acting version of human growth hormone that’s in the final
stage of clinical trials.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net ;
Elliott Gotkine in Tel Aviv at 
 egotkine@bloomberg.net  