-- Everbright’s Proprietary Trading Head Yang Suspended
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-21T09:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/everbright-s-proprietary-trading-head-yang-suspended.html
Everbright Securities Co. (601788)  suspended
its head of proprietary trading after an error sparked the
wildest Chinese stock swings in four years and prompted a
regulatory probe. The stock slumped to a six-week low.  Yang Jianbo, who oversees trading of Everbright’s own money
as head of global markets, said by phone today he is assisting
the investigation into the Aug. 16 incident. He was the only one
of about 20 proprietary traders who was suspended, Yang said
five days after the strategic investment unit he ran made 23.4
billion yuan ($3.82 billion) of erroneous buy orders.  The mistake, described by the China Securities Regulatory
Commission as the first of its kind in the nation, preceded a
programming error at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  that caused
unintended stock-option orders to flood American exchanges
yesterday. Everbright drew a three-month ban on proprietary
trading from the  CSRC  and announced a loss of 194 million yuan
for its order misstep.  “It is hard to determine the bottom for Everbright’s stock
because we can’t really ascertain in the immediate term the
actual impact of the incident on its earnings,” Song Jian,
Beijing-based analyst of China Minzu Securities Co., said by
phone today. She’s intending to cut her add recommendation on
the stock in coming days.  The company’s  shares  slumped 5.9 percent at the end of
Shanghai trading, its lowest level since July 9, after plunging
by the 10 percent daily limit yesterday. The firm’s market value
has fallen by about 6 billion  yuan  in the past two days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Debt Underwriting  Everbright was suspended from underwriting debt sold by
non-financial institutions on the nation’s interbank market, the
broker said in a  statement  to the Shanghai stock exchange. Since
the business started in November 2012 it had brought in revenue
of 540,000 yuan, the company said.  The National Association of Financial Market Institutional
Investors asked Everbright to review and rectify its systems
after the bad trades exposed “major problems” in internal
controls, according to the statement. Everbright must submit a
report to the association by Aug. 30.  Everbright’s mark-to-market loss of 194 million yuan was
based on Aug. 16 closing prices and may change, it said on Aug.
18. The final trading loss could reach 400 million yuan, Paddy Ran, a Citigroup Inc. analyst, wrote in an Aug. 16 note.  Company Apology  The brokerage apologized in a statement three days ago and
said it faced regulatory penalties after the trading error
spurred a swing of more than 6 percentage points in  the Shanghai
Composite Index . The company said Aug. 19 it mispriced a 10
million yuan government bond transaction, a trade that wasn’t
settled following negotiations with its counterparty.  Everbright Securities’ 3.95 percent bonds due next month
and sold to investors at par in May were yielding 5.089 percent
yesterday, indicative pricing from Chinabond on Bloomberg show.
That’s the highest level since July 2.  China  Chengxin International Credit Rating Co., an
affiliate of Moody’s Investors Service, said in an Aug. 19
statement it put Everbright on its credit watch list. The
trading error and investigation may affect Everbright’s main
credit rating and its ability to pay back debt in the short
term, Chengxin said.  Yang’s suspension was reported earlier by the Shanghai
Securities News. Yang led a study three months ago into the risk
control and management of equity derivatives, which was listed
as a key 2013 research subject by the China Securities
Association, the newspaper reported.  Structured Products  Educated at the Shanghai University of Finance and
Economics and the University of Manchester, Yang joined
Everbright Securities in 2004, according to a brochure of an
event sponsored by  Societe Generale (GLE)  and Everbright Securities in
2008. In 2006, Yang was made responsible for the development of
a platform for structured products, the brochure said.  It was a “management decision” to suspend Yang,
Everbright Securities Board Secretary Mei Jian wrote in a text
message. “After all, the business that had problems was in the
department he managed.”  Stock Slump  Brokerages should make risk control a priority as they
pursue new businesses, the China Securities Journal quoted CSRC
Assistant Chairman Zhang Yujun as saying during an Aug. 6 visit
to a securities firm. The ultimate goal of developing new
businesses is to support the real economy, Zhang was quoted as
saying.  The missteps threaten to erode confidence in China’s stock
market, where the benchmark index has slumped 29 percent in the
four years to yesterday. The drop by the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  is the second biggest over the past four years among
equity gauges in 45 emerging and developed countries, after a 63
percent slide in  Greece ’s ASE Index.  Haitong Securities Co. (6837) , China’s second-largest brokerage by
market value, today denied a report that its trading system
suffered a technical glitch yesterday morning. The company’s
Hong Kong shares added 0.8 percent after sliding 5.5 percent
yesterday. Its Shanghai stock gained 0.9 percent.  Haitong Denial  Some investors weren’t able to sell stock in Sinopec
Shanghai Petrochemical Co. and Sinopec Yizheng Chemical Fibre
Co. through Haitong’s system due to outdated data, state-run
China.com.cn reported yesterday, citing unidentified people.  “Everything has been normal,” Shu Yunyun, a Haitong
spokeswoman, said by phone today. “The situation reported by
media didn’t happen.”  Everbright mishap comes at a time of increased scrutiny of
electronic trading systems by regulators around the world. About
a year ago, Knight Capital Group Inc. computers flooded U.S.
equity markets with erroneous orders, a mistake that almost put
the market-making firm out of business.  Goldman Sachs is working with U.S. exchanges to resolve
yesterday’s faulty options trades, spokesman David Wells said in
an e-mail. At least three operators of U.S. options exchanges
are reviewing trades that took place at the beginning of the day
and NYSE Amex Options said most of the transactions may be
canceled.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  