-- Mexico Seeks Tax Similar to Brazil for Private Oil Producers
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-08-21T21:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/mexico-seeks-tax-similar-to-brazil-for-private-oil-producers.html
Mexico’s government will propose
taxing private  oil companies  that partner with state-owned
 Petroleos Mexicanos  at a similar rate as in Brazil and Colombia,
Mexico’s deputy finance minister for revenue said.  The government plans to significantly reduce oil-drilling
royalties paid by Pemex as the  oil company  is known, as soon as
the energy overhaul is approved,  Miguel Messmacher  said in a
telephone interview today, without elaborating. Once private
companies are allowed into Mexican fields, they’ll get a similar
tax treatment, he said.  President Enrique Pena Nieto sent a bill to Congress on
Aug. 12 to arrest Mexico’s production declines by enticing
private companies to develop oilfields in the country for the
first time since 1938. The plan aims to lift growth that’s
slower than the regional average and that the government
forecasts will fall behind Brazil’s for the first time in three
years.  The tax bill will be presented Sept. 8, Pena Nieto said
yesterday. Specifics of the royalty and tax revisions will be
provided in the bill, Messmacher said, without elaborating.  Pemex, the world’s fifth-largest crude oil producer, is
headed for its ninth straight year of output declines, the
Mexico City-based oil producer has said.  The company’s taxes
fund about 34 percent of the  federal budget .  Mexico’s  Finance Ministry  lowered its forecast for economic
expansion yesterday to 1.8 percent this year from 3.1 percent
after exports to the U.S. slowed. The economy grew 1.5 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier, less than the 2.3
percent forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Petrobras Taxes  Petroleo Brasileiro SA, which pumps more than 90 percent of
Brazil’s oil and gas, paid production taxes of $17.91 dollars a
barrel during the first half of this year. Brazil’s production
taxes are partially linked to Brent oil prices.  Mexico’s tax bill would lower Pemex’s royalties and license
fees, Finance Minister Luis Videgaray said in an article posted
on the ministry website today. To partially compensate for lower
fees, Pemex would start paying income tax on its drilling and
exploration operations, he said, without providing details.  “It’s time to give Pemex a new tax regime,” Videgaray
said. “A decision would be made whether the largest remaining
resources are reinvested in the company or if a part is
transferred to the Treasury as a dividend.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  