-- F-35 Support Costs Fall 22%, Pentagon Manager Estimates
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-08-21T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/f-35-support-costs-fall-22-pentagon-manager-estimates.html
A fleet of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s
F-35 fighters will cost $857 billion over 55 years to operate
and support, 22 percent less than previously estimated,
according to the head of the Pentagon office developing the
plane.  The new estimate reflects the aircraft’s performance in
5,000 test flights over 7,000 hours, Air Force Lieutenant
General Christopher Bogdan, the Defense Department’s program
manager for the F-35, told the Senate Armed Services Committee
in written answers last month that haven’t been made public
until now.  “The previous cost estimate did not factor in this new
knowledge,” Bogdan said.  Operating costs include expenses from spare parts to
repairs and fuel. Officially, the Pentagon’s estimate remains
$1.1 trillion, a two-year-old projection developed by the
Pentagon’s independent cost-assessment office.  The F-35 is the Pentagon’s costliest weapon system, with an
estimated price tag of $391.2 billion for a fleet of 2,443
aircraft, up 68 percent from the projection in 2001, as measured
in current dollars.  The rising costs and troubles in building the plane even as
it’s being developed have led to criticism in Congress. This
year, lawmakers, the Government Accountability Office and the
Pentagon test office have said the aircraft is making progress
in flight tests and in stabilizing production.  The reduced estimate for operating the planes was among
such indications cited by Bogdan in his letter to the lawmakers.  ‘Significant Effort’  “Significant effort remains to continue to find cost
efficiencies and reduce this number even further” and “I
expect these cost estimates to continue to go down over the next
several years as the program matures,” Bogdan said.  Jennifer Elzea, a spokeswoman for the cost-assessment
office that compiled the earlier $1.1 trillion estimate, said in
an e-mail that she couldn’t comment on Bogdan’s reduced
projection.  The Pentagon moved to shelter the F-35 from the initial
impact this year of the budget cuts known as sequestration,
locking in several contracts before the reductions took effect.
Frank Kendall, the Defense Department’s chief weapons buyer, has
said he would do his best to protect the plane built by
Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed from the effects of $52
billion of sequestration cuts set for fiscal 2014.  Under further cuts, Bogdan said in his answers to
lawmakers, “there is a significant risk of not being able to
deliver” the fully capable version of software the aircraft
needs to meet its warfighting potential.  Budget Cuts  Sequestration also would mean “a reduction in the number
of aircraft” that can be purchased, he said. The Pentagon wants
to buy 29 next year.  Bogdan estimated that basic production costs, including
engines, for the three variations of the aircraft will fall as
much as $35 million per plane by fiscal 2018, when full-rate
production is scheduled to begin.  If current trends hold and production rates increase,
Bogdan said, the Marine Corps version will fall to $110 million
a plane from $153 million under the fifth production contract
signed in December.  The Navy’s version will drop to $100 million from $140
million and the  Air Force ’s to $85 million from $120 million, he
said.  Bogdan also acknowledged what the Pentagon rarely says
publicly --  that the F-35 is being developed partly in response
to  China ’s military modernization and its emphasis on weapons
and tactics intended to keep U.S. vessels and aircraft away from
its territorial waters should war with Taiwan break out. This is
known in Pentagon jargon as an “anti-access/area denial”
strategy.  Asked by lawmakers what threat is driving procurement of
the F-35, Bogdan cited  “emerging threats” that “are
presently being fielded in China and other nations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  