-- Fall Temperatures in West Europe Will Be Below Normal, WSI Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-08-21T08:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/fall-temperatures-in-west-europe-will-be-below-normal-wsi-says.html
Temperatures in the U.K. and western
 Europe  will be near to, or below, normal in the three months
from September, according to Weather Services International.  The rest of the continent, particularly eastern Europe and
western  Russia , will be warmer than normal, the forecaster, a
unit of Andover, Massachusetts-based The Weather Company, said
in an e-mailed report. In September, it will be cooler than
normal in southern  Sweden  and  Norway  and warmer than normal
elsewhere in the Nordic region, according to the statement. It
will be warmer than normal in southern Europe and cooler than
normal in the north and the U.K.  “Our models suggest that October will be the warmest of
the autumn months, relative to normal,” WSI said in the
statement. “A very early look at indicators for the upcoming
winter suggest that atmospheric blocking may be favored again
this winter, which would favor below-normal temperatures across
significant parts of Europe.”  Weather drives demand for power and natural gas,
particularly during the European winter when cold weather
increases the need for heating. Colder-than-predicted
temperatures pushed the cost of day-ahead  U.K. gas  to 123.5
pence a therm in March, the most since 2006, according to Marex
Spectron data compiled by Bloomberg.  WSI said June 26 that the U.K. and most of mainland Europe
would stay cooler than average in July. The U.K. had the third-warmest mean temperature since 1910 that month, Met Office data
show.  In October, it will be warmer than normal across Europe,
except in the extreme north of the U.K., WSI said. In November,
it will be cooler than normal in most of the Nordic region and
the U.K. and warmer than normal in northern and southern Europe,
it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  