-- Fannie Mae Sees Jobs, Easier Terms Sustaining Home Sales
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2013-08-21T14:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/fannie-mae-sees-jobs-easier-terms-sustaining-home-sales.html
More jobs and easier loan terms will
boost demand for new mortgages in the second half of this year
as homebuyers shrug off higher  interest rates , according to a
 Fannie Mae  forecast issued today.  Lending for mortgages to purchase homes will increase 21
percent for the final six months of 2013 to $341 billion from
$282 billion in the first half, according to an advance copy of
the forecast obtained by  Bloomberg News . Total U.S. residential
 mortgage debt  probably will increase 1.1 percent in 2013 to $10
trillion, followed by another increase to $10.2 trillion in
2014, Fannie Mae estimated.  A 1 percentage-point jump in average  mortgage rates  since
May hasn’t curbed enthusiasm for home buying, even as declining
demand for refinancing saps profit at the biggest banks. Almost
4 percent of Americans in July said they plan to buy a home in
the next six months, the highest in at least four years,
according to the Conference Board, a  New York  research firm.  “It’s not going to be the kind of rocket-ship market we’ve
seen, but it’s still a good time for real estate,” said  Michael
Hanson , a former Federal Reserve economist now working for Bank
of America Corp. in New York. “We’ve seen a gradual easing of
mortgage availability, and affordability is still good.”  The projection bodes well for bankers who depend most
heavily on mortgages at a time when financial firms are
scrounging for revenue.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and JPMorgan Chase &
Co., the two biggest home lenders, have predicted that mortgage
refinancing will shrink the rest of this year, with JPMorgan
calling the potential impact “dramatic.”  Rates Rise  The National Association of Realtors said today purchases
of previously owned houses advanced 6.5 percent to a 5.39
million annual rate last month, the fastest pace since November
2009. For all of 2013, sales probably will total 5 million, a
gain of 8 percent over 2012, according to the  Fannie Mae (FNMA) 
forecast.  Mortgage rates have jumped from near-record lows in May to
 4.4 percent  last week on 30-year fixed loans, according to
 Freddie Mac , amid anticipation that the Fed will slow its
purchases of securities backed by real estate later this year.
The central bank probably will announce a reduction on Sept. 18,
according to a report that accompanies today’s forecast from
Washington-based Fannie Mae.  “We’ve seen a pickup in employment and we think that’s
consistent with a comment from Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  that
the program will end when the unemployment rate trends down to
around 7 percent,” said Doug Duncan, Fannie Mae’s chief
economist.  The jobless rate probably will decline for the rest of this
year to a five-year low of 7 percent in the first quarter of
2014, according to Fannie Mae.  Jobs Boost  “More jobs means more potential home buyers,” said
 Lawrence Yun , chief economist at the National Association of
Realtors. “It’s a counteracting force to rising mortgage
rates.”  What’s more, credit markets are “modestly” thawing,
according to Fannie Mae’s forecast, and the Fed’s survey of
senior loan officers published this month showed domestic banks
mostly  easing their standards  over the past three months. Demand
was stronger in most loan categories, the Fed reported.  Qualification standards for mortgages went from one extreme
during the end of the housing boom -- much too loose -- to the
other during the beginning of the housing recovery, Yun said.  “The recovery has been held back by underwriting standards
that have been overly stringent,” Yun said. “Loans have been
 performing so well  during the last three years, and the values
of homes that collateralize the loans have been rising, so we
expect to see lenders dialing back.”  Missing Mortgages  The housing market hasn’t returned to pre-crisis levels
because a whole class of “dangerous” adjustable-rate mortgages
was eliminated and underwriting standards are tougher, said
James Grosfeld, former chief executive officer at the
homebuilder now known as  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac “are probably writing the best mortgages, the safest
mortgages that they’ve ever written right now,” Grosfeld said
in an interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance.”  Growing demand and a lack of supply propelled the median
price 14 percent higher in June, the biggest year-over-year gain
since the record 17 percent in October 2005, according to Yun.  Median prices for single-family homes gained in about nine
out of every 10 U.S. cities in the second quarter as buyers
competed for a limited supply of properties, according to Yun.
About 2.2 million homes were available for sale in June, 7.6
percent less than a year earlier, he said.  “We had a market that overshot its bottom on the way down,
and we’re struggling to keep up with demand as it makes its way
up,” said Bank of America’s Hanson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  