-- FBI Said to Hunt for Criminal Acts in JPMorgan Bid Probe
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-08-22T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/fbi-said-to-hunt-for-criminal-acts-in-jpmorgan-bid-probe.html
A Justice Department probe of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s energy-trading practices is examining
whether criminal laws were violated by individuals, a person
briefed on the matter said.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation is working with U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , said the person, who asked not to be
named because the review isn’t public. Bharara’s inquiry,
reported by the Wall Street Journal and Bloomberg News earlier
this week, focuses on conduct outlined last month in the 
bank’s $410 million civil settlement with the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission. The FERC had accused the bank of
manipulating power markets in  California  and the Midwest.  It’s the second criminal probe of the bank to emerge this
month, after the lender  disclosed  Aug. 7 that the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in  Sacramento , California, opened a separate
criminal inquiry into the firm’s mortgage-bond practices.
Investigators in that case told the bank in May that they have
preliminarily concluded the company violated civil laws,
JPMorgan said in the disclosure.  JPMorgan’s energy-trading unit, which is overseen by
commodities chief Blythe Masters, engaged in 12 bidding
strategies in wholesale energy markets from September 2010 to
November 2012 that resulted in tens of millions of dollars in
overpayments from grid operators, the FERC said while announcing
the settlement on July 29.  It didn’t bring claims against any individuals. The bank
publicly defended individual employees during that inquiry.  Subpoena Sent  The person briefed on the FBI’s probe didn’t specify which
people agents may examine. Investigators sent JPMorgan a
subpoena earlier this month, according to another person with
knowledge of the situation.  Jennifer Queliz, a spokeswoman for Bharara, and Kelly
Langmesser, a spokeswoman for the FBI’s New York office,
declined to comment on the bureau’s probe.  Brian Marchiony  at
JPMorgan declined to comment on behalf of the bank and Masters.  While the FERC deal last month released the New York-based 
company and its employees from future enforcement actions by 
the regulator, it didn’t preclude other U.S. authorities from 
pursuing their own inquiries. FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff 
said in an interview at the time that he wasn’t aware of any 
separate investigations.  “We have had some discussions with some agencies that I
can’t disclose at this time,” he said.  JPMorgan accepted the facts in the FERC settlement without
admitting or denying wrongdoing, the agency said. The firm
announced last month that it was looking for ways to exit the
physical commodities business, which includes energy trading.  Masters’ Group  The bidding strategies at issue were developed by a
Houston-based unit run by Francis Dunleavy, who was one of eight
people who reported directly to Masters, according to the FERC’s
settlement order last month. Dunleavy and two subordinates
involved in the bids, Andrew Kittell and John Bartholomew, are
still employed with the bank, the FERC said.  The regulator decided not to pursue claims against the
employees after they explained that their conduct was lawful and
that they wouldn’t agree to any settlement that suggested
otherwise, their lawyers wrote in a statement last month.  The agency’s decision to settle with JPMorgan and not bring
claims against individuals “can only be read as the commission
correctly concluding that no case or findings against the
individuals could be sustained in a court of law,” one of their
attorneys, William Scherman at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, said
in the statement.  He declined to comment yesterday on the FBI investigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  