-- Fed Tells Judge Swipe-Fee Rule Rejection Will Be Appealed
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-21T20:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/fed-tells-judge-swipe-fee-rule-rejection-will-be-appealed.html
The U.S.  Federal Reserve  will appeal
a judge’s decision that its rules on debit-card transaction fees
and processing were illegal, a lawyer for the central bank said.  Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s biggest payments network, climbed 3
percent to $178.39 in  New York , the most in almost a month, as a
successful appeal could help the company maintain its market-share lead. Smaller rival  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  slid 0.5 percent to
$619.31.  The Fed’s general counsel,  Scott Alvarez , told U.S.
District Judge Richard Leon in  Washington  that the bank would
file its case with the higher court today and asked the judge to
keep the rules in effect as long as the appeal is pending.  Leon said he’d leave the current regulation in place at
least while he considers the Fed’s request for the longer stay.
The Fed is seeking to overturn Leon’s ruling that the central
bank improperly set the cap on debit-card transaction fees,
known as swipe fees, at about 21 cents for each transaction, and
neglected to bolster competition among payment networks.  “I’m not inclined to grant a stay, but I will keep an open
mind,” Leon said.  Alvarez told Leon that if the judge lifts the stay and the
appeals court rejects an emergency request to keep the rule in
place, no fee caps on debit-card transactions will be in effect.  Leon’s decision, unless overturned on appeal, will force
regulators to revisit rules that bankers said would cost them 45
percent of their swipe-fee revenue. Lenders collected about $16
billion annually from those fees before the Fed’s regulation and
responded by cutting back on perks such as rewards programs and
free checking to soften the blow to their profits.  Visa’s Dominance  The ruling also threatens to erode Visa’s dominance of the
U.S. debit-card market and benefit MasterCard as merchants would
have more say about how transactions are processed.  Foster City ,
California-based Visa handled $1.14 trillion in U.S. debit-card
purchases in the 12 months ended June 30, more than double
MasterCard’s $467 billion, according to data the firms disclosed
with their latest earnings reports.  In his July 31 ruling, Leon said the Fed had considered
data it wasn’t allowed to use under the Dodd-Frank law in
setting the 21-cent cap, and neglected the statute’s
requirements to enhance competition among payment networks.  “We are somewhat surprised by the magnitude of V’s stock
reaction, given that consensus was expecting an appeal,”  Jason Kupferberg , a Jefferies Group LLC analyst, said today in a note
to clients, using Visa’s ticker symbol. “There could be some
short-covering also explaining the move.”  Current Rules  Shannen Coffin, a lawyer for retailers challenging the
regulation, said he would support keeping the current rules in
place pending an appeal that could take more than a year to
resolve.  Coffin urged Leon to do all he could “to prevent us from
being victims of our own success.”  Alvarez told Leon that before the rule, which took effect
in October 2011, the average swipe fee was about 50 cents.  “This remains a matter between the Federal Reserve and the
court,” Seth Eisen, a spokesman for Puchase, New York-based
MasterCard, said in an e-mailed statement. Visa’s Paul Cohen
declined to comment.  Frank Keating , the chief executive officer of the  American
Bankers Association , called the appeal “the right thing to do
for consumers who value debit cards and the financial
institutions that serve them.”  At a hearing last week, Leon ordered Alvarez to appear in
his courtroom to explain whether the Fed was planning on moving
forward with an interim final rule in the wake of his decision.  Alvarez said today that an interim rule would replace the
current rule and eviscerate the Fed’s appeal. Shortly after the
hearing, the Fed filed its notice of appeal with Leon.  The case is NACS v. Board of Governors of the  Federal
Reserve System , 11-cv-02075, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  