-- Fed Reviews Fixed-Rate Reverse Repo Facility as Aid to Exit
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-08-21T19:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/fed-reviews-fixed-rate-reverse-repo-facility-as-aid-to-exit.html
Federal Reserve policy makers were
briefed last month on the potential for establishing an
additional tool to aid them when they eventually seek to lift
 interest rates  and tighten monetary policy.  Fed staff members presented officials the possibility of
“a fixed-rate, full-allotment overnight reverse repurchase
agreement facility as an additional tool for managing money
market interest rates,” according to the record of the Federal
Open Market Committee’s July 30-31 gathering released today.  Such a system would allow the FOMC to offer an overnight,
risk-free instrument to a “wide range of market participants,”
and possibly improve its ability to keep short-term rates at
desired levels, the minutes showed.  “The Fed is likely worried that they won’t be able to
reduce the amount of excess reserves that they have by only
using the facilities that they presently have,” said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in
 New York , one of the 21 primary dealers that serve as
counterparties to the Fed in open-market operations. “That is
particularly true given the new regulatory environment for banks
and dealers and how big financial balance sheets can be. The Fed
needs to increase its ability to transform its excess reserves
into another type of liability.”  Regulations aimed at reducing the risk of another financial
crisis and the Fed’s purchase of Treasuries since 2009 have
combined to reduce the size of the repo market, where banks and
investors borrow and lend Treasuries and other fixed-income
securities. The Volcker rule ban on proprietary trading as part
of the Dodd-Frank Act to risk-weighted asset requirements under
Basel III guidelines and new supplementary leverage ratios have
contributed to a contraction in the repo markets in recent
years.  Shrinking Market  The average daily amount of securities outstanding in the
U.S. repurchase, or repo, market was $2.6 trillion last month,
down 40 percent from $4.3 trillion daily repos outstanding in
the first quarter of 2008, according to Fed data of its 21
primary dealers.  Fed policy makers, while still buying bonds to support the
economy, have also over the last few years been developing
methods to eventually tighten monetary policy. Along with
raising the  overnight bank lending rate , Fed officials have said
they may use tools including reverse repos to withdraw or
neutralize cash in the banking system.  Reverse Repos  The Fed has been conducting tri-party reverse repurchase
agreements this month with primary dealers and its expanded list
of counterparties including money market mutual funds. The
transactions, part of a series of open-market operations first
announced in December 2009, don’t represent any change in
monetary policy.  Yesterday the  Fed drained  $5 billion in cash from the
banking system through reverse repos for Treasury collateral as
part of these tests. The Fed has been expanding its reverse repo
counterparties over the last few years given reduced dealer
balance sheets, as banks worked to shore up balance sheets after
the financial crisis.  The Fed has said these tri-party reverse repos are just a
way for the central bank to work on “operational aspects” for
the eventual withdrawal of monetary stimulus.  The Fed uses repos and reverse repos to help maintain the
level of money in the banking system to keep overnight interest
rates close to the central bank’s target. The Fed has held its
target rate for overnight loans between banks in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  ‘Quantitative Easing’  In a reverse repo, the Fed lends securities for a set
period, temporarily draining cash from the banking system. At
maturity, the securities are returned to the Fed, and the cash
to its counterparties.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party functions as the
agent for the transaction and holds the security as collateral.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of New York Mellon Corp. are the
only banks that serve in a trade-clearing capacity in the tri-party repo market.  The central bank’s large-scale asset purchases, known as
quantitative easing, have swelled its  balance sheet  to more than
$3.6 trillion, as policy makers have sought to reduce borrowing
costs and stimulate growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  