-- FIFA’s Valcke Says Won’t Accept Russia World Cup Discrimination
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-08-21T20:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/fifa-s-valcke-says-won-t-accept-russia-world-cup-discrimination.html
Jerome Valcke , general secretary of
soccer’s world governing body, FIFA, said the organization won’t
accept any form of discrimination in Russia at the World Cup in
2018.  President Vladimir Putin signed a law last month that
imposes a ban and maximum fine of 1 million rubles ($30,200) on
“propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations” among minors.
Foreign citizens charged under the law face 15 days in jail and
deportation. Earlier this month, Zurich-based FIFA called on
Russia to clarify the law.  “We are waiting for this clarification, but we will for
sure enter into a discussion with them and won’t accept any
discrimination,” Valcke told reporters in Rio de Janeiro today.
“It’s not just about the World Cup; it’s about every day.”  The comments come three weeks after Russian Sports Minister
Vitaly Mutko said the new law will be enforced during the 2014
Winter Games, which start Feb. 7 in the Black Sea resort of
Sochi. Four years later  Russia  will host the World Cup,
international sport’s most-watched event. Valcke said FIFA would
“never reach the level” of changing venues, and that there is
“clear discussion” with Russian authorities.  The law has sparked global outcry, from calls for a boycott
of the Sochi Games by British actor Stephen Fry to gay bars in
the U.S. dumping Russian vodka. American actor Harvey Fierstein
compared the government’s campaign against gay and bisexual
people to Nazi persecution.  At the World Athletics Championship in Moscow, Swedish high
jumper Emma Green-Tregaro painted her fingernails rainbow color,
a reference to the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender
banner. Two Russian athletes, who kissed on the podium after
winning the 4x400-meter relay, denied the display was meant as
political protest.  “There’s no way FIFA will give up on our principles,”
Valcke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio De Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  