-- Flaherty Says Not Considering Further Housing Tightening
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-08-21T18:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/flaherty-says-not-considering-further-housing-tightening.html
Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said he isn’t planning new measures to restrain the
country’s  housing market  because his past four rounds of action
have already worked to avoid a bubble.  “So far, I’m satisfied that we have a balance in the real
estate sector,” Flaherty told reporters in Wakefield,  Quebec ,
at the start of a policy retreat with business leaders. “There
are some bumps along the road in Toronto and Vancouver, in
particular in the condo markets, but overall, I’m satisfied,”  Flaherty has warned consumers to avoid mortgages that could
become unaffordable when  borrowing costs  rise, after Canadians
took on record household debts relative to disposable income.  Flaherty said that “we have been watching the condo market
and the housing market very closely for at least five years.”
He also said that he does have “contingency plans” he can use
if the need arises.  The Bank of  Canada  has identified household finances as the
biggest risk to the domestic economy, while Governor Stephen Poloz has said there are recent signs of a “constructive
evolution” in that area.  Flaherty today also reiterated his own commitment to pare
the  federal budget  deficit and spoke out against the
extraordinary monetary stimulus seen in the U.S. and Europe.  “We are going to balance the budget without doubt in
2015,” Flaherty said, adding that this will “put Canada in a
position of strength” to react to any future global weakness.  Not Fans  “We in Canada haven’t been fans of quantitative easing,
unlike the United States and elsewhere,” Flaherty said. “The
danger in the longer term to me as a finance minister is
inflation.” He said the policy may be discussed at the next
meeting of Group of 20 officials.  Canada has been a destination for global bond investors
because of the country’s top credit ratings, deficit reduction
and stable economy, Flaherty said.  “We can sell anything we produce in Canada around the
world, whether it’s in Canadian dollars, U.S. dollars or
euros,” Flaherty said in reference to sales of his government’s
bonds.  He attributed the  record  C$19 billion ($18 billion)
divestment of Canadian bonds by foreign investors in June to
“some weakness in the Canadian dollar,” without elaborating.  Canada’s dollar depreciated by 1.4 percent against the U.S.
dollar in June following a May decline of 3 percent. Investors
and economists attributed the bond sale to concerns that
interest rates will rise as the U.S. Federal Reserve scales back
its bond purchases and signs of faster growth in the U.S. and
Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Wakefield, Quebec at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  