-- Fletcher Rises Most in Four Years on Earnings: Wellington Mover
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-08-21T01:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/fletcher-rises-most-in-four-years-on-earnings-wellington-mover.html
Fletcher Building Ltd.,  New
Zealand ’s largest supplier of wallboard and concrete, gained the
most in four years after full-year profit beat estimates and the
company said it will review its dividend policy.  Net income rose to NZ$326 million ($260 million) in the
year ended June 30 compared with analysts’ average forecast of
NZ$318 million, the Auckland-based company said today. The stock
rose 5 percent to NZ$8.70 at 1:35 p.m. in Wellington, headed for
its biggest gain since Aug. 12, 2009.  Fletcher is benefiting from an increase in construction in
New Zealand, where rebuilding after earthquakes in Christchurch
and new infrastructure projects have stoked demand. The company
will review its distribution policies in the next six months in
light of low levels of debt and strong cash flows, Chief
Financial Officer Nick Olson told reporters.  “It’s prudent to consider what’s possible and to try out
appropriate gearing targets for the current environment,” Olson
said on a conference call. “A review of that sort of policy is
important but not urgent. I don’t have any particular issue with
where we are placed today.”  Net debt at June 30 fell to NZ$1.78 billion from NZ$2.06
billion a year earlier, and the ratio of debt to debt-plus-equity was 33 percent, the lowest in three years.  Chief Executive Officer Mark Adamson, who started in the
role in October, said the balance sheet strength gives the
company options as growth opportunities arise.  Cash Generation  Still, “the next few years is about cash generation rather
than consumption,” he said on the call. “Certainly for a
couple of years we’re looking to trim the portfolio and get more
earnings from the existing assets. Beyond that there would be
aspirations to continue the growth of recent years, and
potentially acquisitions.”  Investors had been “bruised” by recent acquisitions that
hadn’t performed well, and management had a duty to boost
confidence by getting more performance from existing businesses
before embarking on a big purchase, Adamson said.  The company has some non-core or under-performing units
earmarked for sale. It is also ready to make smaller
acquisitions, and looked at two businesses in  Australia  bought
by Bluescope Steel Ltd. this week, Adamson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  