-- Floyd Cardoz Cooks for Serena Williams, Medical Research
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-08-21T17:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/floyd-cardoz-cooks-for-serena-williams-medical-research.html
Lunch service is over at North End
Grill in Lower Manhattan and executive chef  Floyd Cardoz  is
remembering a Christmas Day when he was 8.  Three children came to the back door of the family home in
what was then called Bombay. They were begging for money.  “My father sat them down in the kitchen and fed them
before the family ate,” said Cardoz, 52. “I don’t remember
many things from my childhood, but I always remember that.”  Nowadays Cardoz, winner of the Bravo network’s “Top Chef
Masters” in 2011, gets regular requests to help raise money by
cooking at charity events. Tomorrow night, he will return as a
guest chef at the 14th annual BNP Paribas Taste of Tennis at the
W New York hotel in Midtown  Manhattan .  The event, which coincides with the start of the U.S. Open
tennis tournament, attracts sports fans, bankers and tennis
stars such as Serena Williams, Victoria Azarenka, Jelena Jankovic and Monica Puig.  A portion of Taste’s proceeds will go to the James Beard
Foundation, which provides scholarships for culinary students.  “Floyd was one of our first chefs to do the Taste of
Tennis,” said Penny Lerner, chief executive officer of AYS
Sports Marketing, which produces the event.  Cardoz, who studied culinary techniques in Switzerland,
will serve a watermelon salad with lime zest and fried capers.
About 30 other chefs will participate, including Red Rooster
Harlem’s Marcus Samuelsson, Barbuto’s Jonathan Waxman, Marc
Murphy of Landmarc and Taku Soto of Nobu 57. Samuelsson, the
featured chef, will do a cooking demonstration with Williams.  Other Charities  Since joining Danny Meyer’s Union Square Hospitality Group
in the late 1990s as a chef at Tabla (which closed in 2010),
Cardoz has donated his time to several culinary fundraisers,
such as Groove With Me, which teaches underprivileged girls
dancing, City Harvest and the culinary mentoring program C-CAP.
He went to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina to support Share
Our Strength.  Cardoz also has raised more than $1 million to build homes
for the children of prostitutes in Calcutta. Some of the kids
were featured in the 2004 documentary film “Born Into
Brothels.”  He also raises money for cancer-related charities -- his
father died of lung cancer -- and autism-related nonprofits. He
gave his $100,000 Top Chef prize to the Young Scientist Cancer
Research Fund at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in honor of his
father.  Young Scientists  He started the Young Scientist Foundation with  Goutham
Narla , an assistant professor at Case Western Reserve University
School of Medicine, his wife, Barkha Cardoz, and Analisa Difeo,
a researcher and instructor at Mount Sinai. Its goal is to help
young U.S. students interested in the sciences work alongside
accomplished researchers. Before pursuing a career in
hospitality, Cardoz wanted to become a doctor.  “If you find a way to show people how to give, it helps
make everybody else’s life better,” Cardoz said.  (The Taste of Tennis is tomorrow at the W New York hotel,
541 Lexington Ave. in Manhattan from 7 to 10 p.m.  Tickets  are
$275. Information:  http://www.tasteoftennis.com  or contact
 melissa@aysworld.com ).  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining, Christopher
Palmeri on  books .  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 