-- Flu Vaccine May Lower Heart Attack Risk, Researchers Find
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2013-08-21T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/flu-vaccine-may-lower-heart-attack-risk-researchers-find.html
Flu vaccination may not only stave
off the seasonal virus, it may prevent heart attacks too,
researchers in  Australia  found.  Immunization against the respiratory illness lowered the
probability of heart attack by 45 percent, according to a study
of more than 500 hospital patients by researchers at the
University of New South Wales in Sydney.  The finding, published today in the journal  Heart , suggests
flu vaccination programs targeting the elderly should be
extended to include younger adults, especially those with
coronary artery disease. Among seniors, the shot reduces severe
illnesses and complications from flu by as much as 60 percent
and deaths by 80 percent, according to the  World Health
Organization  in Geneva.  “ Flu vaccine  could be having more of a public health
impact than it already is,” said Raina MacIntyre, head of the
school of public health and community medicine at UNSW and the
study’s first author.  Previous research has shown that acute infections, such as
influenza, cause the body to increase production of disease-fighting inflammatory proteins in the blood that can clog up
vessels narrowed by  heart disease , MacIntyre said.  “We know that every flu season, heart attacks increase,”
she said. “To me, it’s fairly convincing evidence that flu
vaccine can protect against heart attack in people who already
have diseased arteries.”  Her study, which received funding from U.K. drugmaker
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , found that almost 1 in 10 hospitalized
patients had laboratory-confirmed flu, even though it wasn’t
suspected or diagnosed at the time of their admission.  The research compared 275 hospitalized heart attack
patients with 284 people who were treated in a hospital
outpatient department from 2008 to 2010. It also found
respiratory-tract infections doubled the risk of a heart attack,
suggesting flu-fighting vaccines could also help prevent the
leading cause of death and disability worldwide.  “There is a whole lot of people who are at risk of heart
attack in the 50-to-65-year age group who are under-vaccinated,” MacIntyre said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  