-- Foschini Plans for Expansion Outside Slowing South Africa
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-08-21T08:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/foschini-plans-for-expansion-outside-slowing-south-africa.html
Foschini Group Ltd. (TFG) , South  Africa ’s
worst performing clothing retailer this year, said it plans to
open 21 new stores in the rest of the continent by March as
consumers in Africa’s largest economy struggle to repay debt.  The Cape Town-based company, which owns the Fabiani and
Charles & Keith fashion brands in South Africa, joins retailers
such as Carrefour SA, Shoprite Holdings Ltd., Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.’s Massmart and Truworths International Ltd. expanding in
Africa with a middle class of 300 million people and economy set
to grow three times the pace of the U.S. next year. South
Africa’s central bank forecast an expansion of 2 percent for
this year, the slowest since the 2009 recession.  Foschini plans to open five or six new stores in Zambia and
four in  Ghana , Chief Financial Officer Ronnie Stein said in an
interview yesterday. The retailer will open 42 new stores in the
rest of the continent in fiscal 2015 fiscal and 38 in 2016, he
said. It also plans to add to its two recently opened stores in
Nigeria as more shopping centers are built in the nation of more
than 160 million people.  “That will take us to 205 stores by the end of the 2016
year when our turnover from the rest of Africa will be 1 billion
rand ($98 million),” Stein said by phone from Cape Town. “We
always start with two stores in a country. Once we’re happy with
the environment, the logistics, the legal side, the tax side,
the staffing side, then we roll out.”  South African  retail sales  rose at the slowest pace in nine
months in June as rising  joblessness  weighed on spending. The
number of South Africans with impaired credit records rose by
189,000 to 9.53 million in the first quarter, the National
Credit Regulator said in June. About 40 percent of Foschini’s
sales in fiscal 2013 were done with cash, while the balance was
done on credit using the retailer’s store cards, it said May 30.  ‘Over-Traded’  Retailers “all recognize the need to expand outside of
South Africa, because South Africa is becoming increasingly
competitive,” Roger Tejwani, a retail analyst at NOAH Capital
Markets who has a hold recommendation on Foschini, said by phone
from Cape Town. “It is becoming over-traded.”  The stock has lost 28 percent this year, compared with a 17
percent decline for the 11-member FTSE/JSE Africa General
Retailers Index.  Foschini’s sales will probably grow by 10 percent for
fiscal 2014, Stein said. That compares with a median  estimate  of
14.28 billion rand of eight analysts in a Bloomberg survey,
representing growth of 10.7 percent. Trading conditions in the
first three months through June were “tough” whereas July was
“pretty good,” he said.  Rand Swings  Fluctuations in the rand may impact price increases on
Foschini’s merchandise, Stein said. The currency has lost 17
percent this year, the worst performer among 24 major emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It weakened less than
0.1 percent to 10.1688 per dollar as of 8:52 a.m. in
Johannesburg.  Foschini’s internal product inflation for the fiscal year
through March was 5 percent. That compares with a 6.3 percent
increase in consumer price  inflation  in July, according to South
Africa’s statistical agency.  “If the rand remains at the 10-ish level, the inflation
for summer would likely be in the region of 7 percent, which is
less than the devaluation in the rand,” Stein said.  The stock  gained  1.8 percent yesterday to 101.75 rand,
giving the company a market value of 23 billion rand.  Truworths (TRU) 
rose 2.8 percent to 83.80 rand, paring its loss this year to 23
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  