-- German Trucker Shortage Swells Transporters’ Wage Costs
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-08-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/german-trucker-shortage-swells-wage-costs-for-companies-freight.html
Freight companies are struggling to
raise the appeal of commanding a heavy truck along Germany’s
highways as an increasing shortage of drivers pushes up the cost
for transport in  Europe ’s biggest economy.  The perks of the open road are fading fast as bureaucracy
and regulation mount, journey times lengthen and inhabitants of
the world’s second-largest export nation prefer to pursue
careers outside the solitary confines of a 10-foot lorry cab.  “There’s a serious driver shortage in Germany,” said
Gerard van Kesteren, chief financial officer of  Kuehne & Nagel
International AG (KNIN) , which operates 10,000 trucks and trailers and
counts BMW AG and Airbus SAS as customers. “It means we have to
pay somewhat more to get drivers, and because the margins are so
thin we have to pass this additional cost on to clients.”  Demographic trends are set to deepen the squeeze, with 40
percent of  Germany ’s professional truckers due to retire in the
next decade, according to a study by ZF Friedrichshafen AG, a
German car-parts supplier. One ready source of labor has also
dried up with the suspension of compulsory military service,
which had provided one in five of the country’s commercial
vehicle operators with their licenses.  The increase in personnel costs comes with margins already
under pressure after  diesel  spot prices rose more than fourfold
over the past 10 years, and increasingly prevalent road tolls.  Radio Campaign  At Schindellegi, Switzerland-based Kuehne & Nagel, the
world’s No. 1 sea-freight forwarder, which counts Germany as its
largest market, the rail and road transport business was the
only unprofitable one among four operating units last year.  German rail company Deutsche Bahn AG’s DB Schenker unit,
the largest supplier of overland transport in Europe, has
resorted to a radio campaign to attract new truckers, while also
approaching high school graduates as potential “captains of
country roads,” emphasizing both the demanding nature of long-distance driving and what it calls the “romance” of trucking.  Recruitment has been complicated by German laws introduced
in 2009 that compel would-be drivers to garner qualifications in
areas such as customs formalities and fuel-efficient driving, as
well as in traffic laws and road safety, according to Schenker
spokesman Peter Sauer. Total costs for gaining a license can
reach 8,000 euros ($10,700); people caught working without the
necessary certificates can be fined 5,000 euros.  Training Regime  “It takes three years of training to become certified, and
our guys are not stupid truckers,” he said. Drivers required to
transport dangerous goods must pass further tests.  The situation has been exacerbated by the decision to halt
conscription in 2011, Sauer said, with the military previously
issuing as many as 30,000 trucking licenses a year and veterans
being admitted to the profession with minimal extra coursework.  Berlin-based Schenker, which had 2012 sales of 6.42 billion
euros, employs more than 17,000 truckers, about 10,000 of them
in countries where advanced qualifications are required.  At Kuehne & Nagel, the road and rail division’s losses have
totaled 148 million Swiss francs ($161 million) over seven years
before interest and tax, even as it boosted sales 66 percent and
more than doubled its headcount to about 8,400 people.  Quitting road transport is not an option since it’s central
to an integrated service, with most containers moved by truck at
either end of maritime and  air travel , according to the company,
whose rivals include  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL Global Forwarding
and Dachser GmbH of Germany,  Panalpina Welttransport Holding AG (PWTN) 
of  Switzerland , Denmark’s  DSV A/S (DSV)  and Geodis SA of  France .  Eastern Entrants  The dearth of German drivers has prompted an influx of
foreign competitors, with European Union companies able to
operate throughout the bloc since a law change in 2007.  While that has pared the  labor shortage , it has also cost
Germany the equivalent of 15,000 trucks, depriving it of 75
million euros in annual tax receipts. It also undermines wage
structures and professional standards, according to the BGL
industry association, which says contracts are now often awarded
via Internet auctions with less reference to quality than price.  Labor costs in some eastern EU nations average one-fifth
the level in Germany, where they can amount to 50 percent of
haulage companies’ expenses. Drivers from countries including
Bulgaria and  Romania  are working in the region’s No. 1 economy
“under nomadic conditions like migrant workers in  China ,” BGL
Executive Director Karlheinz Schmidt said at its Frankfurt base.  In a knock-on effect, truckers from the Ukraine are working
in Slovakia and companies in  Latvia  are hiring drivers from the
 Philippines  in what amounts to illegal employment, he said. The
BGL has responded with a pilot project to train 12 young people
from  Spain  -- where unemployment stood at record levels in the
first quarter -- to fill driving jobs in Stuttgart.  ‘Inhuman’  The truckers’ plight is spreading beyond Germany, according
to a report from the European Transport Workers’ Federation,
which conducted interviews on the working and living conditions
of 1,000 non-resident truck drivers in Europe.  Foreign drivers are paid mainly according to distance and
delivery times, incentivizing them to ignore rest periods, the
study said. Drivers tend to live in their cabs at weekends, with
little access to sanitation, and spend as many as three months
on the road working an average 57.5 hours a week, it said.  “Illegal, inhuman practices tend to become the rule, and
the bad players set the benchmark,” the report said.  BGL President Adalbert Wandt, who runs Braunschweig, north
Germany-based trucking company Wandt, said there’s no easy way
to turn the wages tide without a decline in standards.  “There are some scandalous practices,” he said. “So far
we have a demographic problem, but if we don’t pay our drivers
more we’ll also have a quality problem in the long run.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  