-- German Stocks Decline as Investors Await Fed Minutes
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-08-21T07:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/german-stocks-decline-as-investors-await-fed-minutes.html
German stocks  declined for a third
day as investors awaited the release of minutes from the  Federal
Reserve ’s July meeting.  Sixt SE, a vehicle leasing-services company, lost 1.2
percent after reporting a drop in second-quarter pretax profit.
 Linde AG (LIN) , the producer of industrial gases, added 1 percent
after Citigroup Inc. upgraded its recommendation on the shares.  The  DAX (DAX)  fell 0.3 percent to 8,279.56 at 9:32 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The gauge has still  rallied 7.6 percent  from its low
on June 24 as the  European Central Bank  said that interest rates
will remain low for an extended period. The broader HDAX Index
retreated 0.2 percent today.  “The release of the minutes of the recent Fed policy
meeting from July seems to be the focus of investors’
attention,” Roger Peeters, chief executive officer at Close
Brothers Seydler Research in Frankfurt, wrote in an e-mail.
“The fear that the Fed will already start to reduce its
stimulus programs in September is a fact, and positive economic
figures can’t absorb such fears. Good economic figures even have
accelerated the fear.”  Investors will study the minutes from the  Federal Open
Market Committee ’s July 30-31 meeting for signs of when it will
begin to reduce the $85 billion pace of monthly bond purchases.  The U.S. central bank will start to scale back bond buying
next month, according to 65 percent of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg from Aug. 9-13. The median estimate suggested the
first move will be to reduce purchases to $75 billion a month.  The Fed has said it will weigh economic data to decide the
timing and pace of any reduction. A report at 10 a.m. in
Washington will show U.S. existing home sales rose to an
annualized 5.15 million in July, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  