-- Glanbia Falls as Euro Strength, Irish Dairy Drag: Dublin Mover
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-08-21T10:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/glanbia-falls-as-euro-strength-irish-dairy-drag-dublin-mover.html
Glanbia Plc (GLB) , the Irish dairy and
nutritionals producer, declined the most in almost two months
after analysts signalled a strengthening euro and a weaker than
expected earnings at its Irish business may weigh on earnings.  Glanbia fell as much as 4.4 percent to 9.9 euros in Dublin,
its biggest intraday fall since June 24. The Kilkenny, Ireland-based company earns most of its profit outside of Ireland.  “It will be the forex that means the consensus comes
down,” said  James Targett , a London-based analyst at Berenberg
Bank. The euro’s appreciation against the dollar may result in a
1 percentage point drop in analysts’ consensus adjusted earnings
per share growth estimates of 8 percent to 9 percent for the
full year on a constant currency basis, he said.  Glanbia re-iterated today its full-year earnings per share
growth target of 8 percent to 10 percent as it reported a 13
percent increase in revenue in the first half to 1.68 billion
euros. Glanbia, which earns more than 70 percent of group EBITA
from its global nutrition and ingredients business, recorded a
6.4 percent increase in that measure to 123.9 million euros in
the first half.  Glanbia said said earnings before interest, tax and
amortization at its Dairy Ireland business fell 24 percent to
12.1 million euros in the first half.  “The fall in the Irish profit was worse than we had
forecast,” said Liam Igoe, an analyst at  Goodbody Stockbrokers 
in a note today. Igoe, who has a buy rating on the stock, said
he expects to cut his euro-based earnings per share growth
estimate for the company.  About 340,000 shares traded in Dublin, the equivalent of
104 percent of average daily volume for the stock during the
past three months. The euro has appreciated about 3.1 percent
against the dollar since the start of June.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net  