-- GM’s Opel Revamps Insignia Car to Reverse Customer Doubts
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-08-22T10:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/gm-s-opel-revamps-insignia-car-to-reverse-customer-doubts.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel unit is
refreshing the mid-sized Insignia with new engines and dashboard
instruments to win customers back to an auto brand tainted by
more than a decade of losses that put its survival in question.  Production of the revamped Insignia, Opel’s most expensive
car with a  starting price  of 24,325 euros ($32,500) including
 sales tax , began today at the plant at company headquarters in
the Frankfurt suburb of Ruesselsheim. The model is the eighth in
an 11-car line-up that the company has introduced or updated in
the past three years in a strategy to counter consumer doubts
about the division’s future since an aborted disposal in 2009.  “Opel has never had such great models as today in recent
history, but the brand is burnt,” said Ralf Kalmbach, a Munich-based partner at Roland Berger consulting company. “Rebuilding
of the brand is a key challenge and may take many years.”  GM’s European operations, consisting mainly of Opel and its
U.K. sister brand Vauxhall, have lost more than $18 billion
since 1999. The two nameplates’ annual western European
deliveries fell by about half from that year until 2012,
compared with an industrywide drop of 17 percent, and their
market share narrowed to 6.7 percent from 10.9 percent,
according to data from the  ACEA  regional automaker trade group.  Disposal Dropped  A sale of Opel to Canadian auto-parts producer  Magna
International Inc. (MG)  and Russian partner  OAO Sberbank (SBER)  was among
options that Detroit-based GM considered as the U.S. company
struggled to restore group profitability during the global
recession in 2009. GM, which has controlled Opel since 1929,
chose instead to keep the business and reorganize it, and
executives have vowed to make it profitable by mid-decade.  The earnings-restoration plan includes the first shutdown
of an auto factory in Germany since World War II, a reduction of
its manufacturing workforce across  Europe  and a pay freeze for
remaining employees in exchange for preserving jobs.  GM Europe ’s
second-quarter loss before interest and taxes narrowed to $110
million from $394 million a year earlier.  Opel Chief Executive Officer Karl-Thomas Neumann, a former
manager at  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  who took over running GM’s European
operations in March, is the fifth person to lead the division
since the Magna deal collapsed.  During that time, Opel has contended with reversals such as
a German legal  settlement  in 2011 to modify vehicle warranties
and the abandonment this year of an offer to convert the car
plant in Bochum, Germany, to parts production instead of closing
it, following worker’s rejection of the deal.  ‘Continuity’ Needed  “If the Opel brand lacks anything, it’s continuity,”
Juergen Gietl, managing partner of Nuremberg, Germany-based
consulting company Brand Trust GmbH, said by phone on Aug. 20.
“The permanent change in  management  and promises as well as the
announcements of plant closures eroded the trust of the
employees and the customers.” At the same time, “Opel has too
many fans to vanish completely.”  The Insignia is being offered with a selection of more-efficient turbo diesel or gasoline motors, as well as simplified
touch-pad and voice-activated navigation, radio and wireless
controls to reduce distractions to driving, according to Opel
statements in the past three months. The car will go on display
at the  International Motor Show  in  Frankfurt  next month.  The car “is the next important milestone in our model
offensive,” Neumann said today at a presentation at the
Ruesselsheim plant, which is also building a right-hand-drive
version of the Insignia for the Vauxhall badge.  The production start is a “sign of the motivation and
commitment of our team to returning Opel to the path of
success,” Wolfgang Schaefer-Klug, head of the division’s works
council, said at the presentation  Adam Added  Other Opel models introduced in the last year include the
South Korean-made Mokka compact sport-utility vehicle, which
went on sale in Europe in October, and the Adam city car, which
the company began producing in Germany in January. Opel said in
July that the Mokka will be made in Saragossa,  Spain , starting
in the second half of 2014 after customers placed 100,000 orders
for the SUV in its first seven months on the European market.  The promotional effort for Opel includes widening ties to
European soccer teams. The GM division started airing
 advertisements  in January featuring Juergen Klopp, a former
player who’s now head coach of the Borussia Dortmund team. Opel
began  sponsoring  Dutch sports club Feyenoord Rotterdam in March,
adding to the carmaker’s backing of five soccer teams in
 Germany ’s Bundesliga and Vauxhall’s support of the U.K.’s four
national teams.  To broaden its customer base beyond Europe, where the car
market is at a two-decade low, Opel is also selling vehicles in
 Israel ,  Chile ,  Singapore  and the  United Arab Emirates . An 11-month effort to market Opel models in  Australia  ended this month
after it proved unprofitable.  “Opel is on a good way with its new vehicles,” Brand
Trust’s Gietl said. “The question is, will they be able to
remain on track for a couple of years?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Ruesselsheim, Germany, at   dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  