-- Goldman Invests $40 Million in Salesforce Rival SugarCRM
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-08-21T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/goldman-invests-40-million-in-salesforce-rival-sugarcrm.html
SugarCRM Inc. , a maker of sales-tracking software, raised $40 million from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to speed global expansion as it takes on larger rivals
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)   The Cupertino, California-based company will use the cash
to invest in research and development as well as sales and
marketing, Chief Executive Officer Larry Augustin said in an
interview. Sugar 7, the latest version of SugarCRM’s customer-relationship management software, will debut in October.  “We think the opportunity for CRM is vastly
underpenetrated,” Augustin said. “We figure there are 450
million to 500 million people in customer-facing roles. Today,
commercial CRM companies serve maybe 20 million of them.”  Investors on the public and private markets are circling
emerging business software providers as companies move away from
traditional packaged and desktop software. Cloud-based providers
like  Workday Inc. (WDAY)  and  ServiceNow Inc. (NOW)  have soared since their
initial public offerings last year, while startups such as Box
Inc., Zendesk Inc. and New Relic Inc. have raised growth-equity
rounds from large institutional investors.  Before this investment, SugarCRM had raised $79 million.
Augustin wouldn’t comment on the valuation, saying only that
it’s “up and to the right” since the  last investment round 
early last year.  SugarCRM, founded in 2004, added 600 new customers in the
second quarter, bringing the total to 6500 commercial clients.
Most individual users run a free version of the program, and
paying customers are charged $35 to $100 per user per month.
Sales rose 30 percent in the second quarter from the same period
a year earlier, about half the growth rate for all of 2012.  Nearing Profit  Augustin, who said late last year that the company may go
public as soon as 2013, declined to comment further on its
plans. The company has 400 employees and is close to
profitability, he said.  Antoine Munfa, a vice president at New York-based Goldman,
will join SugarCRM’s board. The investment was made by Goldman’s
Private Capital Investing group, which backs growth and mid-sized companies in  North America .  “The CRM market is ripe for technologies and products that
change the face of how enterprises conduct business with their
customers,” Munfa said in today’s statement. “SugarCRM, with
its user-centric vision and product design, has stepped up to
meet a real market need.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  