-- Gold in India May Climb to Record in a Month: Technical Analysis
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-08-21T05:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/gold-in-india-may-climb-to-record-in-a-month-technical-analysis.html
Gold futures in Mumbai are poised to
extend a rally from a two-year low to a record as an upward
trend channel signals further gains, according to technical
analysis by Kotak Commodities Services Ltd.  Futures on the Multi Commodity Exchange of  India  Ltd. may
climb above the all-time high of 32,464 rupees ($514) per 10
grams reached in November in the next one month, said Dharmesh Bhatia, a Mumbai-based deputy vice president at the brokerage.
“The price is currently in a strong uptrend forming higher tops
and higher bottoms.”  Spot bullion in  London  rebounded 16 percent since reaching
a 34-month low in June as demand for jewelry, bars and coins
soared from India to  China  and  Turkey . Prices in Mumbai have
gained 24 percent since declining to a two-year low of 24,830 on
June 28 as the rupee slumped to a record. The contract for
October-delivery fell 0.4 percent to 30,705 rupees today.  “After creating a two-year low at 24,830 rupees, MCX gold
has given a sharp pull back rally and closed last week above the
upward sloping trend channel,” said Bhatia. “There is a strong
psychological support seen at 30,000 rupees. There will be some
consolidation over the next two to three days and prices will
zoom to new highs once it breaches the 31,500 rupees level.”  A rising channel is a continuation pattern where prices
show bullish signals along a channel marked by two parallel
lines. The rising channel continues until the prices move to
break through the upper or lower end of the channel accompanied
by high volume. In  technical analysis , investors and analysts
study charts of trading patterns and prices to predict changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  