-- Gum Disease Linked to Risk of Oral Cancer Causing Virus
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-08-21T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/gum-disease-linked-to-risk-of-oral-cancer-causing-virus.html
Gum disease and other dental
ailments boost the risk of becoming infected with oral human
papillomavirus, a sexually transmitted virus that causes 40 to
80 percent of all throat cancers, according to the first study
to find such a link.  Those who said they had poor oral health had a 56 percent
higher rate of oral HPV infection than those who reported good
to excellent oral health, researchers wrote in a study published
today by  Cancer Prevention Research , a journal of the  American
Association  for  Cancer Research .  Oral HPV infection is similar to  genital HPV infection  in
that there are low and high-risk variations. Low-risk oral HPV
can spur non-cancerous tumors or warts in the mouth and throat
while high risk may lead to cancers of the mouth and throat, the
researchers said. Today’s study is the first to show a link
between poor oral health and oral HPV infection, said Christine
Markham, the study author.  “This is just another really good reason to take good care
of your teeth and your mouth,” said  Markham , an associate
professor of health promotion and behavioral science at the
University of Texas Health Sciences Center in Houston, in an
Aug. 19 telephone interview. “Our findings show that even when
you control for known risk factors for oral HPV infections such
as smoking and oral sex behaviors, poor oral health is an
independent risk factor for oral HPV infection.”  Disease Path  Markham said poor  oral health  such as sores in the mouth or
throat or inflamed gums may act as a portal allowing the HPV
entry into the body, while those with good oral health don’t
have those portals so even exposure to HPV doesn’t trigger an
infection.  More research is needed to better understand the connection
between bad oral hygiene and HPV infection, she said.  Most people with HPV infections of the throat and mouth
have no symptoms and only “a very small percentage” develop
into cancer, according to the  American Cancer Society . There is
currently no U.S. approved test for oral HPV infection.  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s vaccine Gardasil prevents cervical cancer
caused by the sexually transmitted virus in girls and boys.
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  also sells an HPV vaccine. Neither is
approved to prevent oral cancers. The virus infects 4 of 5
sexually active people at some point in their lives and is known
to cause cervical, vulvar, vaginal, penile and anal cancer.  About 10 percent of men are orally infected with HPV,
compared with 3.6 percent of women, according to a 2012 study.  Self Reports  Today’s study looked at 3,439 people ages 30 to 69 years
old who participated in the  National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey  conducted by the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. The survey asked them to rate their oral
health, whether they had gum disease, if they used mouthwash in
the past several days to treat dental issues and how many teeth
they had lost.  The researchers found that men, smokers, those who used
marijuana and those who had multiple oral sex partners had a
higher chance of oral HPV infections. Poor oral health also was
independently linked to oral HPV infection.  The study found that those who had  gum disease  had a 51
percent higher rate of oral HPV than those without gum disease
and those who had dental issues had a 28 percent higher
prevalence.  This year about  36,000 people  will get cancers of the mouth
and throat and about 6,850 will die from the disease, according
to the  American Cancer Society .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  