-- Iceland Keeps Western Europe’s Highest Rate as Krona Stable
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-08-21T11:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/iceland-keeps-western-europe-s-highest-rate-as-inflation-slows.html
Iceland’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a sixth consecutive
meeting after intervening in the  currency market  and predicted
it will take longer to tame inflation.  The seven-day collateral lending rate was kept at 6
percent, the highest in western  Europe , according to a statement
on the website of the Reykjavik-based  Sedlabanki .  “The central bank’s foreign exchange market strategy,
introduced in May, has contributed to reduced exchange rate
fluctuations, and the krona has remained relatively stable,”
the bank said. “As yet, however, this development has not led
to lower inflation expectations.”  Iceland suspended foreign currency purchases designed to
build up reserves at the beginning of the year and in February
announced it would instead buy kronur to take pressure off
rates. Policy makers are seeking to protect the currency from
losses as they try to phase out capital controls in place since
the island’s 2008  economic meltdown .  “The central bank raised  interest rates  too hastily last
year and the economy slowed down last winter,” said  Asgeir
Jonsson , an economist with Reykjavik-based asset manager Gamma.
“The central bank has decided to wait with further rate hikes
and I don’t see them raising rates before the new year.”  The krona slid 0.3 percent to 120.18 per dollar today as of
10:56 a.m. Reykjavik time. It was little changed at 160.85 per
euro.  Target Delayed  The krona has gained 8.7 percent against the euro from a
low in January, helping ease inflation to 3.8 percent in July,
from more than 6 percent last year. The bank has raised rates
six times since August 2011 to prevent krona losses.  The bank today said the economy will expand 1.9 percent
this year, raising a May forecast for 1.8 percent growth. Gross
domestic product will advance 2.8 percent next year. Inflation
will average 3.8 percent this year, 3.1 percent next year, the
bank said. Inflation won’t reach the 2.5 percent target until
the second quarter in of 2016, versus an earlier assessment for
the end of 2014, the bank said.  ‘Action Plan’  Prime Minister Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson on June 10 pledged a
new “action plan” to cut household debt burdens that are
hampering Iceland’s economy and enact changes to the island’s
 capital controls . A taskforce appointed to present proposals on
how to achieve the government’s goals is supposed to deliver its
results in November.  Gunnlaugsson’s Progressive Party and the Independence Party
ousted the Social Democrat-led coalition in April by promising
tax cuts and mortgage relief.  Iceland, which completed a 33-month International Monetary
Fund program in August 2011, is now outgrowing much of Europe as
it recovers from its recession.  “There is some uncertainty about the path public sector
finances will take in coming years, but that should diminish
with the presentation of the fiscal budget proposal in early
October,” the bank said today. “It is critical that Treasury
finances be brought into balance as soon as possible so that the
monetary and fiscal policy mix contributes to external balance
of the economy, fosters overall economic stability, and delivers
inflation close to target, at the lowest possible cost. ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  