-- Michigan Scorned as Schools Pay 14 Times AAA Yield: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-08-21T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/michigan-scorned-as-schools-pay-14-times-aaa-yield-muni-credit.html
Investors’ insistence on a yield
14 times higher than the AAA benchmark on $92 million of Detroit
school notes is the latest example of municipal-bond market
contempt for  Michigan  after the city’s record bankruptcy.  Yesterday’s deal by the Michigan Finance Authority, the
first tied to the Motor City since Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr
sought protection from creditors July 18, had securities
maturing in August 2014 priced to yield 4.375 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a  0.32 percent 
rate on top-grade munis due in one year.  Orr, 55, appointed by Republican Governor  Rick Snyder  in
March, surprised the $3.7 trillion muni market by considering
unlimited-tax general obligations as unsecured debt in his June
plan to avert bankruptcy. The state’s tacit endorsement of the
proposal has led investors to demand  interest rates  so high that
at least three localities have postponed sales since the filing.  “His proposals basically to lump in lease debt with
general obligations is obviously affecting the market for any
type of bonds in the state of Michigan,” said Tom Spalding, who
helps manage $10 billion of munis at Nuveen Investments Inc. in
 Chicago . “It’s going to impact everyone who needs to borrow.”  Michigan Morass  Snyder said after Detroit’s bankruptcy that he expected
bond buyers would be “sophisticated investors” and separate
the city’s situation from other municipalities, such as the
independent school district. Orr said in an interview last month
that it would be a “reduction to the absurd” to think other
cities should be punished as a result of Detroit seeking court
protection.  The yield penalty on the school notes, which investors
including Gary Pollack at Deutsche Bank AG’s private-wealth unit
said is among the biggest in years, shows Snyder and Orr were
wrong.  Last week, the finance authority sold revenue bonds for
Ypsilanti Community Schools, about a half-hour drive from
Detroit, with 10-year debt yielding 4.29 percent, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That’s about 1.33 percentage points more than
 benchmark munis . Similarly rated revenue  bonds  averaged an
interest rate just 0.59 percentage point more than AAA debt.  The Ypsilanti sale came after three other issuers in the
state -- Genesee County,  Battle Creek  and Saginaw County --
postponed offerings because proposed interest rates were too
high.  ‘Punitive Behavior’  Sara Wurfel, a Snyder spokeswoman, said the postponed sales
shouldn’t cause alarm and that “ultimately it should all work
out.” Orr said last month that it wasn’t his job to worry about
repercussions of seeking court protection.  “I understand the irrationality of behavior that may even
bleed over into punitive behavior,” Orr said. “They want to
send a shock to the system.”  Terry Stanton , a spokesman for Michigan Treasurer Andy Dillon, didn’t respond to a voicemail and e-mail seeking comment
on the schools sale. A voicemail left at the office of Jack Martin, Detroit Public Schools’ emergency manager, wasn’t
returned.  Cash Flow  Proceeds from the sale will help cover the autonomous
district’s anticipated  cash-flow  deficits for the fiscal year
that ends in June, according to offering documents.  Standard &
Poor’s  rates the one-year Detroit school debt SP-1, its second-highest grade on short-term securities. The notes have first
claim to state-aid revenue for repayment.  The yield penalty has become steeper for Detroit’s school
district since it sold state aid revenue notes in August 2010.
Those one-year securities were priced to yield 3.875 percent,
compared with a benchmark AAA interest rate of 0.29 percent.  Even when compared with school districts tied to similarly
distressed cities, the Detroit notes had a bigger penalty.  The school district in Stockton,  California , which was the
biggest U.S. city to seek court protection before  Detroit , sold
$36 million of eight-month notes in February with a yield of 0.6
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That was 0.33
percentage point more than AAA munis maturing in a year.  Niagara Falls City School District in  New York , with the
same short-term debt rating from S&P as the Detroit school
notes, issued $45.5 million of one-year general obligations in
June with a yield of 0.9 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The city’s rating dropped to one step above junk this year
amid a cash crunch.  Possible Disruptions  While some investors may require additional yield because
of Orr’s plan, the 4.375 percent interest rate also takes into
account possible disruptions in state funding for the schools,
said Wells Capital Management’s Lyle Fitterer, who plans to buy
a portion of the note sale.  “We don’t know if there will be a temporary interruption
of cash flows,” said Fitterer, who helps manage $31 billion of
munis at the  Menomonee Falls , Wisconsin-based company. “We
don’t think there would be, but investors are saying, ‘We need
to get compensated for that.’”  S&P said there’s “limited risk” of substantial delays in
state school-aid appropriations. Enrollment at Detroit public
schools could decline by as much as 33 percent and state aid
would still fully cover debt service payments, according to S&P.  Different Entities  The district and the city are “unrelated legal entities
created and existing under different laws of the state,”
according to offering documents. The district was Detroit’s
fourth-biggest employer last year, with about 7,350 workers, the
documents show.  Across the country, education debt is set to underperform
the broader market this year for the first time since 2010. Debt
sold for public schools and higher education has lost about 5.7
percent through Aug. 19, the most since 1999 and more than the 5
percent loss for the muni market, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data show.  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , and  Dallas ’s water and sewer
system are among issuers offering debt this week amid $4.6
billion in sales, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  At  3.05 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are the
highest since April 2011. The interest rate compares with  2.82
percent (USGG10YR)  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the two yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 108 percent. The figure has been above 100 percent since
July 8, signaling that munis are cheap compared with federal
securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  