-- Ties to Regulator Said to Spur Exit From ILFC Bid Group
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-08-21T02:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/ties-to-regulator-said-to-spur-exit-from-ilfc-bid-group.html
New  China  Trust Co., which led a 
Chinese investor group in a $4.2 billion bid for  American 
International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s aircraft-leasing unit, pulled out 
of the deal on concern its ties with a Chinese regulator would 
prompt added scrutiny, said people with knowledge of the matter.  New China Trust  left the investor group in late May,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified as the
process is private. The consortium has missed three deadlines to
complete the purchase of International Lease Finance Corp. and
AIG retains an option to terminate the deal, a person with
knowledge of the matter said this month.  The exit of the Chongqing-based investment company has made 
it more difficult for the bidding group to finance the purchase 
because it prompted other Chinese investors to pull out as well, 
one of the people said. The consortium, now led by Hong Kong-based P3 Investments Ltd., has raised about $2.6 billion from  
five investors in Hong Kong and two in  Taiwan , the person said.  The National Development and Reform Commission, China’s top
economic planning agency, owned a stake in New China Trust’s
majority shareholder until last year, company filings show. The
NDRC had signaled to the bidding group that New China Trust’s
presence might give the impression of a conflict of interest
because the regulator approves all major overseas acquisitions,
two of the people said.  Tim Payne, an external spokesman for the bidding group,
declined to comment, as did AIG’s Jon Diat. Two calls to the
NDRC’s press office went unanswered. A call made to New China
Trust’s office in Chongqing wasn’t picked up.  Delayed Deposit  New China Trust’s withdrawal came about two months after
China’s Communist Party appointed Xu Shaoshi as chairman of the
NDRC. The party expelled former NDRC Vice Chairman Liu Tienan
this month on bribery charges, as President Xi Jinping has vowed
to crack down on official corruption.  AIG said in June that it received a delayed deposit for the
ILFC purchase. Its December agreement with the Chinese group for
an 80 percent stake in ILFC required a 10 percent deposit. The
unit owned or operated a fleet of about 1,000 aircraft as of
March 31, according to a regulatory filing.  New China Trust is 71.9 percent owned by New Industries
Investments, its  2012 annual report  shows. The NDRC held a 7.3
percent stake in New Industries in 1998, according to a filing
with the government of Shenzhen, where New Industries is based.
The regulator sold its remaining shares in July 2012, a separate
filing by New Industries shows.  Weng Xianding, New China Trust’s chairman, was the deputy
head of the finance department of the NDRC’s predecessor in the
late 1980s, according a  biography  posted on a Chinese forum he
attended last year. In 1993, the agency asked him to start New
Industries, the biography shows. Weng is also chairman of New
Industries, according to a Shenzhen government database.  ILFC has been one of the hardest assets to sell since 2008
when AIG began divesting units to repay a U.S. bailout. The
insurer said in 2011 that it could cut its stake through an
initial public offering, and Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said June 4 that an IPO was an option if the China
deal collapsed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  