-- Iluka to Expand in Inland China to Tap Growth Opportunities
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-08-21T06:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/iluka-to-expand-in-inland-china-to-tap-growth-opportunities.html
     Aug. 21 (Bloomberg) ---  Iluka Resources Ltd. (ILU) , the world’s
biggest supplier of zircon to  China , is opening new offices and
distribution facilities in the country’s inland provinces to
seize opportunities for growth.  “You need to push westwards away from the coastal
provinces,” Chief Executive Officer David Robb said today in an
interview. “Clearly the Chinese government has a strong policy
of developing the interior, and we think it’s sensible to be
aligned with that.”  The Chinese government’s move to spur investment in inland
regions is helping growth in provinces such as Sichuan and Henan
outpace coastal areas. Perth-based Iluka expects demand in China
to rise, Robb said, even as the country’s economy slowed for a
second straight quarter to 7.5 percent.  Iluka, among the 10  best performers  this year on the
S&P/ASX index of 52 resources companies, is also hiring more
staff in China. Robb declined to specify how many facilities and
offices Iluka plans to open or the number of employees it will
recruit.  A Chinese government policy encouraging producers of
pigment used in paints and plastics to use a more
environmentally-friendly and efficient processing technique will
open a new market for the company, Robb said. Rutile and
synthetic rutile, used in chloride-processing technology, is
currently sold mostly to customers in the U.S. and Europe,
including DuPont Co.  “That is a very big opportunity for us,” said Robb.  Matthew Hodge, a Sydney-based analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) 
said he expects demand for the pigment-making products to
increase.  “China is consuming at lower than Western world rates, so
I would expect there is going to be growth there longer term,”
he said.  Iluka’s net income fell to A$34.4 million ($31.1 million)
in the six months ended June 30 from $A$274 million a year
earlier on lower zircon prices, according to a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  