-- Time Warner Cable Gives Tennis Channel to CBS-Less Users
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-08-22T12:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/time-warner-cable-gives-tennis-channel-to-cbs-less-users.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-largest U.S. cable provider, is offering a free preview of the
Tennis Channel to customers who can’t get CBS during the U.S.
Open because of a contract dispute.  Digital basic-cable customers in  New York , Los Angeles,
 Dallas  and other regions without CBS will get 75 hours of live
matches plus additional coverage on the Tennis Channel for no
additional charge, Time Warner Cable said yesterday in a
statement. The network isn’t normally available on basic cable.  Time Warner Cable’s blackout of CBS’s networks, including
the broadcast channel and Showtime, has lasted 19 days,
surpassing the two-week shutdown of Fox in 2010 by  Cablevision
Systems Corp. (CVC)  The two sides continue negotiating, said  Maureen Huff , spokeswoman for New York-based Time Warner Cable.  “We know the U.S. Open is popular programming,” Mike Angus, Time Warner Cable’s senior vice president and general
manager of video, said in a statement. “We’re pleased to be
able to offer additional programming via Tennis Channel to
customers affected by this dispute.”  CBS has exclusive TV coverage of the tournament’s later
matches, including the men’s and women’s singles semifinals and
finals. Live matches are also available on ESPN2, CBS Sports
Network and USOpen.org.  “The only way to watch CBS’s coverage of the U.S. Open on
television is on CBS,” the New York-based broadcaster said in
an e-mailed statement.  The  U.S. Open  begins Aug. 26 and ends Sept. 9. It is the
last of tennis’s four major championships, including the
Australian Open, the French Open and Wimbledon.  Temporary Reprieve  Time Warner Cable and CBS have agreed to temporarily lift
their blackout in New York for as many as three political
debates, Huff said. Those include one tonight between the
Democratic primary’s comptroller candidates; a Republican
mayoral debate on Aug. 28; and a debate, if necessary, between
Democratic mayoral runoff candidates on Sept. 23. No other
programming will be affected.  CBS said today it struck an agreement with Verizon
Communications Inc. to continue airing its  broadcast network  and
expand the availability of CBS Sports Network on the phone
company’s FiOS television service. The companies didn’t disclose
terms of the deal. Verizon competes with Time Warner Cable in
parts of New York,  Los Angeles  and Dallas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  