-- Incyte Rises Most in Five Years on Pancreatic Cancer Data
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-08-21T17:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/incyte-rises-most-in-five-years-on-pancreatic-cancer-data.html
Incyte Corp. (INCY)  rose the most in more
than five years after the company said its leukemia drug helped
a subgroup of patients with advanced pancreatic cancer in a mid-phase clinical trial.  Incyte jumped 32 percent to $35.75 at 1:09 p.m. New York
time, for its biggest intraday increase since January 2008.
Forty-two percent of patients who were identified as most likely
to benefit from the medicine, Jakafi, survived six months
compared with 11 percent on placebo, Wilmington, Delaware-based
Incyte said today in a statement.  The trial results are the first indication the class of
drugs known as a Jak inhibitor has an effect on solid tumors.
The data “opens the door” for Incyte to broaden use of Jakafi,
which may boost the drug’s revenue to $950 million in 2017,
according to Brian Abrahams, a senior analyst in  New York  with
Wells Fargo & Co.  “Based on what we know so far from these results, we feel
more confident Jakafi could have a meaningfully larger long-term
opportunity,” Abrahams said today in a note to clients.  Incyte had $297 million in  revenue  last year, including
$136 million attributable to Jakafi, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Pancreatic cancer is the fourth-leading cause of
cancer-related death in the U.S., according to the company.  Patients in the trial were given Jakafi in combination with
 Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Xeloda, which was approved in 1998 and treats
colorectal and breast cancers, or Xeloda alone. The Food and
Drug Administration cleared Jakafi for sale in 2011 for a type
of leukemia called myelofibrosis.  Full Results  “These results solidify our belief in the therapeutic
opportunity that exists for Jakafi, and provide us with an
acceleration strategy to advance our JAK1 inhibitor portfolio
into additional areas of unmet medical need,” Incyte President
and Chief Executive Officer Paul Friedman said in the statement.  Among patients who took Jakafi in the trial, 12 percent
discontinued the therapy for an adverse event. Sixteen percent
of Jakafi patients experienced serious anemia.  Incyte plans to release full trial results at the American
Society of Clinical Oncology’s meeting next year, Pamela Murphy,
a spokeswoman, told Bloomberg First Word.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  