-- India May Expand Malt Output as Beer Demand Grows, Rabobank Says
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-08-21T10:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/india-may-expand-malt-output-as-beer-demand-grows-rabobank-says.html
India  probably will expand malt
production in the next few years as international brewers shift
focus toward  emerging markets , Rabobank International said.  India is set to become a “regional hub” for malt
production as beer demand in emerging markets is growing at
twice the rate of developed markets, analyst Sudip Sinha said in
an e-mailed report yesterday. Malt, made from drying germinated
barley or other grain, is an ingredient in beer. India already
has the second-biggest malt production capacity in Asia, after
China, and it’s well-located for exporting to Southeast Asia and
the Middle East, Rabobank said.  “India offers several tactical advantages to global
maltsters and brewers evaluating investment in malt capacity in
emerging Asia,” Sinha said in the report. “First, the
availability of domestic crops provides access to competitive
malting barley. Second, India has an established but growing
local product demand base.”  Less than 40 percent of India’s barley crop is currently
used to make malt, “which underlines the potential to increase
domestic malting barley supply,” according to the report. India
probably will require extra malt production capacity by 2016-17.
 China ’s rising beer demand means the country’s malt exports will
probably be absorbed by domestic buyers by 2015, creating
opportunities for Indian suppliers, the bank said.  Europe and North America make up more than 60 percent of
the world’s malt production capacity of 24.5 million tons, while
the Asia-Pacific region, the fastest-growing beer consumers,
accounts for 21 percent. Indians drink about 5 liters (1.3
gallons) of beer a year, one-sixth of the global average,
Francois Sonneville, a beverage analyst at Rabobank, said by
phone yesterday.  “Consumption is low but there is a lot of opportunity to
grow,” Sonneville said.  Malting barley futures have declined 21 percent from a year
earlier on NYSE Liffe in Paris. Prices have fallen in tandem
with other grains globally as the U.S. Department of Agriculture
predicts world harvests of corn and wheat to rise to records
this year.  The European Union is the world’s largest barley producer,
according to the USDA. The European Commission, the bloc’s
administrative arm, estimates production in the 28-country EU
will be 59.4 million metric tons in the 2013-14 season that
started July 1, up from 54.1 million tons in the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  