-- Indian Tribes Said to Sue N.Y. Financial Regulator
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-08-22T16:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/indian-tribes-sue-head-of-new-york-financial-regulator.html
Two American  Indian tribes  sued  New
York  state’s financial regulatory agency and its head over his
crackdown on Internet lending businesses, some of which are
tribally owned.  A lawsuit seeking a court order against  Benjamin Lawsky ,
superintendent of the New York Department of Financial Services,
was filed yesterday in federal court in  Manhattan .  Lawsky on Aug. 6 ordered 35 online lenders, including at
least four tribal companies, to stop offering loans in New York.
He also sent a letter to 117 banks -- including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Bank of America Corp.  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. -- requesting
their help to block improper lending by cutting off the lenders’
access to the electronic payments system they rely on.  The executive director of the Native American Financial
Services Association, Barry Brandon, said that only the  U.S.
Congress  can regulate tribes. The association was formed last
year to defend services based in tribal communities.  “We wrote a letter to Lawsky with our concern about his
actions, requesting a meeting,” Brandon said yesterday during a
telephone press conference. “We received no response from
him.”  Payday Lenders  “It is a sad day when payday lenders are suing to make
illegal predatory loans, which serve only to trap families in
endless cycles of debt,”  Matt Anderson , a spokesman for the
financial services department, said in an e-mail. “Payday loans
are illegal in New York. We have respect for tribal sovereignty,
but these are loans sold illegally to New Yorkers outside of
tribal boundaries.”  Payday lenders make loans in small amounts for terms as
short as two weeks, meant to tide borrowers over until their
next paychecks. Online payday loans require borrowers to
authorize direct debits from bank accounts to pay back the
lender.  The New York regulator’s effort already has effectively
blocked tribal businesses’ access to the Automated Clearing
House network that handles the credits and debits, according to
David Bernick, a lawyer representing the tribes. They want the
courts to stop Lawsky from “attacking the banking relationships
the tribes absolutely depend on,” Bernick told reporters on the
conference call.  No Authority  Filing suit were the Otoe-Missouria Tribe of Indians, based
in Red Rock,  Oklahoma , and the Lac Vieux Desert Band of Lake
Superior Chippewa Indians, based in Watersmeet,  Michigan ,
according to the complaint. There are 564 federally recognized
tribal nations in the U.S., the filing states.  “The states have no authority to regulate these tribes in
a way that limits their sovereign rights,” said Bernick, a
partner at Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP in New York. He said
the tribes have developed the lending businesses in line with
their own and federal laws, and customers agree to be subject to
tribal requirements. “It’s the virtual equivalent of someone
coming on to tribal land.”  Also suing Lawsky are three tribal loan companies and two
tribal regulatory agencies, according to the complaint.  Lawsky has called the bank-directed access to the payments
system “the foot in the door that online payday lenders need to
prey on vulnerable  New Yorkers .”  Last week, the  Online Lenders Alliance  wrote to the
organization that manages the payments network, the  Electronic
Payments Association , or Nacha, asking that it tell the banks to
allow access to businesses doing legitimate lending. The trade
group said it supports the tribes in this legal dispute.  “The online lending companies they run are legal, licensed
and serve thousands of New Yorkers who need short-term credit,”
the alliance said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Otoe-Missouria Tribe of Indians v. New York
State Department of Financial Services, 13-5930, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds@bloomberg.net  