-- ING Sells First Structured Notes Linked to Azerbaijan’s Socar
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-08-21T11:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/ing-sells-first-structured-notes-linked-to-azerbaijan-s-socar.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  sold $15 million of
credit-linked structured notes tied to a unit of State Oil Co.
of  Azerbaijan , the first securities to reference the company
since at least 1999.  The 10-month notes are linked to the Georgian unit of
Socar, as the company is also known, and pay 2.8 percentage
points more than the six-month London interbank offered rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Baku, Azerbaijan-based company produces, explores and refines petrochemicals, oil
and natural gas.  “We buy  emerging markets  loan inventory that we can sell
on to investors in many different forms, including credit-linked
notes and credit derivatives,” said Guy Thomas, global head of
emerging markets trading at ING in London.  Banks can create credit-linked notes by packaging up loans
on their balance sheets to sell. The notes have tailored
maturities and can offer higher yields than in the  bond market 
because buyers of the securities suffer losses if there’s a
default either by the bank issuing the note or the linked
entity.   Socar’s two outstanding bonds mature in February 2017 and
March 2023, Bloomberg data show. Credit-default swaps linked to
the company are not actively traded and are not among the top
1,000 entities captured by the Depository Trust & Clearing
Corp., which runs a central registry for the privately
negotiated market.  ING’s structured notes are the first linked to an Azeri
company since VTB Capital Plc, a unit of Russia’s second-largest
bank, sold $17.6 million of one-year credit-linked notes on June
10 tied to the debt of International Bank of the Republic of
Azerbaijan, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  