-- ThinkStrategy’s Kapur Gets Time Served in Hedge Fund Case
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-10-28T21:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/thinkstrategy-s-kapur-gets-time-served-in-fraud-case.html
(Corrects charge in first and third paragraphs of story
published Aug. 21.)  ThinkStrategy Capital Management
LLC’s Chetan Kapur, who initially was accused of deceiving
investors about returns in his hedge funds, avoided prison when
he was sentenced to time served for failure to preserve books
and records of an investment.  Kapur, 38, who is from  India , was sentenced today by U.S.
District Judge John F. Keenan in federal court in  Manhattan  to
the 12 1/2 months he already spent in custody. Kapur was charged
in July 2012 with securities fraud, investor adviser fraud and
wire fraud in connection with losses at his funds from 2002 to
2010.  The former hedge fund manager contended that he lost money
along with other investors and tried to salvage their holdings.
He pleaded guilty last month to the one count. Prosecutors
dropped the other charges.  “The dispute over whether the investors lost money as a
result of the defendant’s actions is not something for me to
resolve,” Keenan said today.  In November 2011, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission alleged that Kapur misled investors about his funds’
track records and invested with fraudulent funds including
Arthur Nadel’s Valhalla and Victory funds and Samuel  Israel ’s
Bayou Superfund. The SEC, which said ThinkStrategy had $520
million in assets at its peak in 2008, settled its case against
Kapur that same month.  Guilty Plea  Nadel, who pleaded guilty in 2010 to defrauding investors
of $168 million, died while serving a 14-year prison term.
Israel, Bayou’s co-founder, is serving a 22-year prison term
after admitting he hid hundreds of millions of dollars in
losses.  Kapur, who was dressed in a black suit in court today, has
been free on bail since last month, said his attorney, Daniel
Arshack.  In a statement to the judge, Kapur said he is “personally
and professionally very upset about the losses we experienced”
and that he lost much of his own savings in the funds.  “ThinkStrategy and I did not abandon investors, which we
were legally entitled to do,” Kapur said. “Investors
benefitted at the expense of ThinkStrategy and me.”  Arshack told the judge that the case was “somewhat
disconcerting,” because the government had brought charges
against Kapur while including him as a victim, identified in
court papers as “Victim No. 1,” when it charged Nadel.  In a phone interview after the hearing, Arshack said the
government found its evidence couldn’t support the previous
charges. He called the shift in the case “remarkable.”  Julie Bolcer, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , declined to comment on the case.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Kapur, 1:12-cr-00535, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in New York at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  