-- Israel Bank Supervisor Tightens Mortgage Rules as Credit Surges
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-08-21T14:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/israel-bank-supervisor-tightens-mortgage-rules-as-credit-surges.html
The  Bank of Israel  announced new
limits on mortgages designed to shield borrowers and the
financial system from risk as housing credit surges and the
economy slows.  Under the new rules, monthly mortgage repayments must not
exceed 50 percent of monthly  household income  and the maximum
mortgage will be limited to 30 years, Supervisor of Banks David Zaken said in an e-mailed statement from Jerusalem today. The
rules go into effect Sept. 1.  Credit to buy homes has climbed, along with housing prices,
as the Bank of  Israel  cut interest rates from 3.25 percent in
2011 to 1.25 percent today in a bid to boost growth. Banks’
housing loans rose to 234 billion shekels ($65.5 billion) in
June, up about 15 percent in 18 months, according to the central
bank’s statement. Mortgages accounted for about 28 percent of
the balance sheet of the five biggest banking groups as of March
2013, up from 20 percent in December 2007, the central bank
said.  “We see a very problematic scenario of a possible rise in
 interest rates  and an increase in unemployment,” Zaken said on
a conference call with reporters. “It’s comfortable for
everyone to ignore this risk; we aren’t ignoring the risk.”  He also limited the variable-rate interest portion of a
loan to two-thirds. Until now, the central bank had not linked
monthly payments to income or capped mortgage length.  The tightening comes against a backdrop of slowing economic
growth and rising joblessness.  Unemployment Rising  Unemployment has risen to 6.9 percent in June from 6.5
percent in January. Growth is expected to slow in 2014 to 3.2
percent from 3.8 percent this year, according to a Bank of
Israel forecast in June.  “The Bank of Israel is continuing its effort to cool the
housing credit market,” Adi Scop, a financial services analyst
for I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd. said in an e-mailed statement from  Tel Aviv . “The new rules aren’t expected
to hurt bank profitability significantly, but they will slow
growth of housing credit to weaker borrowers.”  Mizrahi Tefahot Bank Ltd. (MZTF) , the lender most exposed to
housing credit, declined as much as 4 percent following the
announcement. It was trading at 39.54 shekels at 3:15 p.m. in
Tel Aviv, down by 1.4% from its opening price.  Israel was not among the housing markets that imploded
across the globe in the past decade, in part because of
relatively conservative lending practices. Its banks did not
offer sub-prime mortgages similar to those that brought down the
U.S. housing sector.  In recent years, the Bank of Israel has become even more
restrictive in lending to home buyers. Last October it set
maximum loan-to-value limits for the first time, and in
February, it told lenders to set aside more money against losses
from home loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  