-- J&J Said to Weigh $3 Billion Settlement of Its Hip Implant Cases
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-08-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/j-j-said-to-weigh-3-billion-settlement-of-its-hip-implant-cases.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
 biggest seller  of health-care products, has discussed paying
more than $3 billion to settle lawsuits over its recalled hip
implants, according to five people familiar with the matter.  J&J seeks to resolve as many as 11,500 lawsuits in the U.S.
and has considered paying more than $300,000 per case, according
to the people. Such a settlement would exceed $3 billion if most
plaintiffs accept the terms, an amount 50 percent larger than
that proposed in previous discussions.  A $3 billion settlement would dwarf a 2001 accord  Sulzer (SUN)  AG
reached with patients who claimed that company’s hip and knee
implants were defective. Sulzer, a Winterthur, Switzerland-based
pump maker, agreed to pay $1 billion to resolve those suits,
then the largest settlement involving hip implants.  Any accord would be affected by the outcome of seven
product-liability trials between September and January,
according to the people, who aren’t authorized to make the
negotiations public.  “It’s going to be a fascinating case to watch settle
because of the level of complexity of the injuries and the
amount of money that will be involved,” said  Bruce Cranner , a
medical device defense lawyer not involved in the case. “You
don’t see a lot of mass-tort implant cases settle for a
substantial amount of money.”  Replacement Surgeries  The company is pushing to resolve U.S. cases by early next
year, according to the people. J&J’s DePuy unit recalled 93,000
implants in 2010, including 37,000 in the U.S., after more than
12 percent failed within five years. That rate is climbing,
along with suits by patients blaming the chromium and cobalt
devices for pain, metal debris and replacement surgeries.  J&J, based in  New Brunswick , New Jersey, has spent about
$993 million on medical costs and informing patients and
surgeons about the ASR recall,  Lorie Gawreluk , a spokeswoman for
DePuy, said in an e-mail. J&J set aside an undisclosed amount
for litigation, which it increased before June 30, she said.  “The company also continues to support ASR patients with a
reimbursement program to address recall-related testing and
treatment costs,” she said. “Reports about a possible
resolution of the litigation are premature and speculative,
including any estimates of resolution amounts.”  Steven Skikos , a plaintiffs’ lawyer leading efforts to
prepare lawsuits against DePuy, said his group is preparing for
jury trials, which include the first case in federal court.  ‘Dangerous Guess’  “With the trials rapidly approaching, and our continuing
efforts to obtain more information and data about the patients,
it’s easy to speculate about settlement,” Skikos said in an
e-mail. “However, any comment relating to settlement that does
not come from the plaintiff’s leadership, the court, or from the
company itself remains premature, uninformed and a dangerous
guess.”  J&J lost an $8.3 million verdict in the first trial over
the ASR device and won the second. In the first case, a
California jury in March awarded damages to a retired Montana
prison guard. The panel also ruled the device was defectively
designed, that DePuy properly warned of the risks, and that the
company didn’t owe punitive damages. DePuy is appealing.  A  Chicago  jury ruled six weeks later for DePuy in rejecting
a defective design claim by an Illinois nurse.  Other Trials  Seven other trials of lawsuits by plaintiffs blaming the
ASR hips for injuries will help lawyers for both sides frame
questions over liability and damages. The first is scheduled to
begin Sept. 9 in federal court in  Cleveland . U.S. District Judge
 David Katz  is overseeing that lawsuit by Ann McCracken, 58, a
resident of Rochester,  New York , who needed two replacement
surgeries known as revisions after her ASR implant.  Katz is overseeing about 8,000 federal cases
consolidated before him for the pre-trial collection of
evidence. About 2,000 cases are pending in the California
Judicial Council Coordinated Proceeding before Judge Richard Kramer in San Francisco.  Trials also are scheduled in state courts in San Francisco
in October; in Hackensack, New Jersey, in October and January;
in  West Palm Beach ,  Florida , in November; in Chicago in
December; and in  Los Angeles  in January.  “DePuy believes the evidence to be presented at trial will
show the company acted appropriately and responsibly,” Gawreluk
said. “The ASR hip system was properly designed, physicians
were properly informed of the product’s risks, and DePuy’s
actions concerning the product were appropriate.”  Broad Outline  Lawyers for hip recipients are still reviewing more than 50
million pages of J&J documents and conducting pre-trial
interviews of company officials and experts to prepare for those
cases, Skikos said.  While settlement talks continue, J&J and lawyers for hip
claimants have agreed on the broad outline of a so-called
“global settlement” covering all U.S. cases, the people said.  In January, five people familiar with the talks had said
J&J officials were willing to pay about $2 billion to resolve
the cases. Lawyers for plaintiffs rejected that amount as too
little, the people said.  Any overall accord would compensate patients based on such
factors as age, extent of injuries and whether they had one or
more surgeries to replace defective implants, according to the
people. Negotiators would likely rank those and other factors on
a matrix or grid, the people said.  “J&J’s strategy will be to find a way to negotiate a grid
to settle each of the claims based on five or six variables that
could be plugged in and changed up or down to determine the
value of any claim,” said  Cranner , a lawyer with the New
Orleans-based law firm of Frilot LLC. He is past chairman of the
Medical Liability and Health Care Law Committee of DRI, an
 organization  of lawyers who represent corporations and insurers.  Obstacles Remain  Several obstacles to a final settlement still must be
overcome, the people said. One includes the number of years that
J&J may potentially have to pay future claims. Another is
whether the settlement would include reimbursing Medicare for
claims paid. A third is the amount of compensation for extreme
medical cases, which include dual hip surgeries or cases where
infection prompted long hospital stays, the people added.  “There are a significant subset of clients who got very
badly hurt by the device, and their injuries are much more than
a simple revision,” said  Matthew Davis , a lawyer at Walkup
Melodia Kelly & Schoenberger in  San Francisco  whose firm
represents 270 ASR clients.  “If those cases went to trial and there was a finding of
liability, a jury would award them general damages in the seven
figures,” said Davis, who isn’t involved in the negotiations.  Alloy Used  The J&J hips were made from a cobalt-and-chromium alloy
used in two related models -- the ASR XL Acetabular System, and
the ASR Hip Resurfacing System. In announcing its recall, J&J
cited unpublished data from the U.K. showing that within five
years, 13 percent of ASR XL hips failed and needed revisions,
and 12 percent of the ASR Hip Resurfacing System failed.  At the first trial in Los Angeles, lawyers for plaintiff
Loren Kransky argued DePuy failed to test the device adequately
before selling it in the U.S. in 2005, buried surgeon complaints
of mounting failures, and studied a redesign of the ASR before
scrapping that effort in 2008.  Lawyers for patients claim that debris from the metal ball
sliding against the metal cup causes tissue death around the
joint and may increase the amount of metal ions in the
bloodstream to harmful levels.  J&J set up a help line for patients that is “available in
dozens of countries and has served tens of thousands of
callers,” Gawreluk said. J&J runs a worldwide reimbursement
program resulting in “thousands of payments to patients for
testing and treatment of other out-of-pocket expenses.”  The McCracken DePuy case is McCracken v. DePuy, 11-dp-20485, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Ohio  (Toledo).
The consolidated federal case is In re DePuy Orthopedics Inc.,
ASR Hip Implant Products Liability Litigation, 10-MD-2197, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Ohio (Toledo).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  