-- Journalists Quit Venezuela TV News Channel in Censorship Row
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-08-21T18:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/journalists-quit-venezuela-tv-news-channel-in-censorship-protest.html
Six senior journalists quit
 Venezuela ’s main television news channel Globovision yesterday
in protest at alleged interference by the government of
President Nicolas Maduro.  The anchors and reporters resigned over the “abrupt,
violent and aggressive” exit of creative director Leopoldo Castillo, who left Aug. 16 after 12 years at the channel, said
Roberto Giusti, former host of talk show 33 Degrees. Castillo
hasn’t commented on his departure.  The “conditions for conducting free journalism are absent
from Globovision,” Giusti said by telephone from Caracas today.  Globovision, Venezuela’s only private channel specializing
in news, was bought by three owners of Caracas-based insurance
company Seguros La Vitalicia in May. The station has since
stopped airing live speeches by opposition leader Henrique Capriles Radonski, according to former employees. It has also
ended six news and current affairs programs and parted ways with
14 journalists to date.  The new owners are “censuring news and programs,
blacklisting guests and trying to impose questions on some
interviewers,” eight journalists said in a joint e-mailed
 statement  late yesterday.  The channel’s prime time 7 p.m. slot yesterday was filled
with a Colombian national news bulletin, followed by CNN
archives.  Contentious History  Globovision was one of the stations branded by the late
President  Hugo Chavez  as the “four horsemen of the apocalypse”
for their role in a failed coup attempt against him in 2002.  Chavez was succeeded by his hand-picked successor Maduro in
April.  Raul Gorrin, a director of Vitalicia and chairman of
Globovision, said the channel will remain a platform for “the
most diverse ideas and opinions, presented with respect and
tolerance,” in a statement  posted  on Globovision’s website on
Aug. 17.  Information Ministry spokesman Raimundo Urrechaga didn’t
reply to e-mail and phone message seeking comment.  Globovision is one of Venezuela’s four most-watched
stations, according to Caracas-based industry research company
AGB Panamericana.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Caracas at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 