-- JSW Seeks to Sell U.S. Plant as Demand Revives: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-08-22T11:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/jsw-seeks-to-sell-u-s-plant-as-demand-revives-corporate-india.html
JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , India’s third-biggest steelmaker, will consider selling its U.S. mill complex
to help reduce debt and boost earnings as a revival in the
world’s biggest economy spurs demand.  The company will start looking for buyers once the plant
has turned around, Joint Managing Director Seshagiri Rao said in
a phone interview. JSW Steel,  15 percent owned  by Japanese
steelmaker  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411) , had 216.9 billion rupees ($3.4
billion) of debt as of March 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A sale will help Chairman Sajjan Jindal lower liabilities
and boost  earnings margins , which have narrowed for 12 straight
quarters as interest costs surged. The boom in shale gas
production and a consequent revival in economic growth has
improved the prospects for the Texas-based maker of plates and
pipes, which JSW acquired in 2007, according to Rao.  “It will be a relief to investors if the company is able
to sell the U.S. mills at a good price,” said Abhisar Jain, an
analyst at Centrum Broking Pvt. “The purchase was a bit of
unrelated diversification and is proving a drag on the
earnings.”  JSW Steel paid $900 million for a 90 percent stake in the
unit in 2007 to tap demand from the oil and gas industry. The
global recession caused prices for steel hot rolled coils, a
benchmark product, to slump 40 percent from a peak of $1,095 a
metric ton in July 2008.  Steel Slabs  At the time it bought the unit, JSW Steel planned to ship
steel slabs from its  India  plant to make plates and pipes in the
U.S. The slump in demand forced a change in strategy that left
JSW Steel USA utilizing less than half its capacity, Rao said.  Shares of JSW Steel rose 9.8 percent to 545.90 rupees at
the close in Mumbai, paring this year’s decline to 33 percent.
The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex ended a four-day  losing streak  and
advanced 2.3 percent, trimming its loss in 2013 to 5.7 percent.  The U.S. unit is currently operating at 40 percent of
capacity and is forecast to begin using 50 percent this year on
orders from energy and construction industries, Rao said.  “Orders from the energy sector are improving, but we are
yet to see any major orders from the construction sector,” Rao
said. “Big orders are all that the plant needs for revival.”  U.S. consumers are the least pessimistic in more than five
years, homebuilders are the most upbeat since 2005 and
purchasing managers say their factories are churning out goods
at the fastest pace in almost a decade.  The improving economic outlook is also visible in company
earnings. Of the 471 companies in the  S&P 500  that have reported
results this period, 72 percent have posted earnings that
 surpassed analysts’ estimates .  Trade Barriers  A possible increase in levies against pipe and tube imports
from nine countries will also help JSW Steel USA’s business, Rao
said.  A group of oil-pipe makers led by  United States Steel Corp. (X) 
filed a trade complaint in July, alleging goods from countries,
including  Korea , India,  Saudi Arabia  and  Thailand  were sold in
the U.S. market below cost and, in some cases, benefited from
government subsidies.  A favorable verdict could provide the U.S. steel industry a
“Chinese wall of defense” against imports, Chicago-based Steel
Market Intelligence said in a report last month.  Still, finding a buyer may not be all that easy for JSW
Steel, said  Rahul Jain , an analyst at CIMB Securities India Pvt.
in Mumbai.  “Pipes and tubes is a very cyclical industry and demand
revival will take a while,” he said.  Steel Demand  JSW Steel has 14.3 million tons of steel making capacity in
India. Its biggest plant in the southern state of Karnataka has
struggled to get raw materials since August 2011 when the
nation’s  Supreme Court  imposed a ban on iron ore mining in the
province. The ban was eased last year.  Steel demand in India grew at the slowest pace in five
years as a slowing economy impeded construction projects and
high  interest rates  kept people from building houses and
purchasing cars. A decline in the rupee to record lows has
raised the cost of importing coking coal, a key raw material,
and narrowed margins at mills.  India’s rupee plunged to a record low of 64.55 against the
dollar yesterday on concern the U.S. will pare stimulus as early
as next month. The plunge contributed to a 13 percent decline
over the past year.  Companies including JSW Steel, Essar Steel Ltd. and  Jindal
Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  are increasing exports to boost sales and
counter the rupee’s fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  