-- Kuroda Backs Sales-Tax Increase Before Panels Weigh Impact
-- B y   A r r a n   S c o t t   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-08-21T06:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/kuroda-reaffirms-support-for-sales-tax-rise-before-panels-meet.html
Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said Japan’s economy is strong enough to withstand a
planned sales-tax increase, backing the measure before panels
meet next week to study the impact on growth.  The economy won’t lose speed if the sales tax is raised as
planned, Kuroda told the Mainichi newspaper in an interview
published today. If a higher levy or changing conditions
overseas heighten the risk of a slowdown, the central bank
“won’t hesitate” to add to its unprecedented easing policy,
Kuroda said, according to the report.  Kuroda has advocated steps to cut Japan’s debt burden, the
largest in the world, even as he tries to steer the economy out
of 15 years of deflation. Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.
said today that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is likely to abandon
plans to raise the sales tax to 8 percent from 5 percent in
April and instead ratchet it up 1 percentage point a year, a
move that would soften the blow to consumption.  “Kuroda’s comments suggest he really wants an increase in
the sales tax as scheduled,” said  Yuichi Kodama , chief
economist in Tokyo at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. “Fiscal
reform is needed for Japan’s economy.”  Academics, economists, business leaders and others will
hold meetings Aug. 26-31 on the levy and Abe is due to make a
decision during the autumn.  Beating Deflation  Kuroda will attend the panel meetings, along with Finance
Minister Taro Aso and other members of the economic and fiscal
policy council, the Cabinet Office said yesterday. Koichi Hamada
and Etsuro Honda, two advisers to Abe who have urged caution on
lifting the sales tax, are among the panel members.  The sales tax will rise to 10 percent in 2015 in the two-step increase planned under current legislation.  Kuroda this month warned against any delay, saying “ending
deflation and raising the sales tax are achievable at the same
time.”  The austerity measure would deal a short-term blow to the
economy, which has so far recovered under the reflationary
policies of Abenomics centered on monetary and fiscal stimulus
and regulatory steps to boost growth.  Gross domestic product will contract at an annualized 4.3
percent in the April-June quarter next year before rebounding,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Cautious Advisers  The BOJ in July  forecast  real gross domestic product would
grow 1.3 percent in the fiscal year starting April 2014 and
expand 1.5 percent in the following year, according to median
estimates of the central bank’s board members.  The BOJ aims to generate 2 percent inflation in Japan over
a two-year time frame.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food  rose
0.4 percent in June from a year earlier, the most since 2008.  Kuroda said in the Mainichi interview he couldn’t specify
what sort of additional steps the BOJ might take if it needed to
ease further.  Abe adviser Honda, a professor at Shizuoka University,
proposed lifting the tax by 1 percentage point a year in an
interview this month. There was a serious risk a sales-tax
increase would halt the positive trend from Abenomics, Hamada, a
retired Yale University professor, said this month.  Aso said last week that data showing the economy grew at an
annualized 2.6 percent in the second from the first quarter
supported the case for increasing the sales tax.  Japan’s gross public debt could reach almost 248 percent of
annual gross domestic product next year, the International
Monetary Fund projected this month, an increase of 10 percent
from 2012.  Japan should adopt “a credible medium-term fiscal plan”
as quickly as possible, and needs “growth-friendly revenue and
expenditure measures” in the medium term to bring down its
debt-to-GDP ratio, the IMF wrote in the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arran Scott in  Tokyo  at 
 ascott101@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  