-- N.Z. House-Price Inflation May Halve in Coming Year, RBNZ Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-08-21T00:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/n-z-house-price-inflation-may-halve-in-coming-year-rbnz-says.html
New Zealand  house-price inflation
could slow to half its current rate in the coming year as a
result of new mortgage lending restrictions, the Reserve Bank
estimates.  Lending limits announced by the central bank yesterday
could reduce house-price inflation by between 1 percentage point
and 4 percentage points in the first year, the RBNZ said in a
 Regulatory Impact Assessment  published on its website. House-price inflation is currently running at 8.1 percent, the fastest
since January 2008, according to Quotable Value New Zealand.  The Reserve Bank wants to deflate New Zealand’s housing
bubble without raising  interest rates  from a record low and
denting the economic recovery. The nation has the fourth most
overvalued houses in the developed world, according to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Under temporary lending restrictions due take effect on
Oct. 1, only one in 10 new mortgages awarded by banks will be
allowed to exceed 80 percent of a home’s purchase price.
Currently around a third of new home loans exceed 80 percent,
according to the RBNZ.  The  Reserve Bank  said while it is difficult to estimate the
impact of the measures, they should reduce competition for
houses, lower the price that some purchasers are able to pay and
cut house-price expectations.  In addition to reducing house-price inflation, Reserve Bank
modeling suggests the lending restrictions could shave as much
as 1 percentage point to 3 percentage points off credit growth
in their first year, it said.  “For the most part, the international literature tends to
suggest that the effect” of such restrictions “could be at the
upper end of these indicative ranges,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at   mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  