-- New Zealand Parliament Narrowly Passes Controversial Spying Law
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-08-21T20:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/new-zealand-parliament-narrowly-passes-controversial-spying-law.html
New Zealand ’s parliament passed a
controversial law that will give the nation’s foreign
intelligence agency greater spying powers.  Legislation giving the Government Communications & Security
Bureau the ability to spy on New Zealanders was passed by 61
votes to 59 in Wellington late yesterday. The law was prompted
by revelations that the GCSB illegally spied on Kim Dotcom
during a U.S.-led operation to close his Megaupload website on
piracy charges last year.  It comes as the U.S. and U.K. governments face accusations
of mass cyber surveillance after leaks by former U.S. national
security contractor Edward Snowden. Dotcom, an outspoken
opponent of the new law, clashed with Prime Minister John Key
during a parliamentary hearing on the legislation last month.  The law is “morally indefensible” and would set New
Zealand on the same path as the U.S., Dotcom said at the hearing
on July 3. “We should avoid blindly following the U.S. into the
dark ages of spying abuse.”  Key argues that New Zealand’s Security Intelligence Service
can already collect information on citizens, and that the laws
governing the GCSB needed to be clarified and brought up to date
in a rapidly changing cyber-security environment.  “This isn’t and never has been about wholesale spying on
New Zealanders,” Key told parliament yesterday.  Opposition Green Party co-leader Russel Norman said the law
is “a fundamental constraint on the freedom of New Zealanders”
and its passing marked “a very sad day.”  Electronic Surveillance  The new law allows the GCSB to carry out domestic spying on
New Zealanders under certain circumstances, including
intercepting phone calls and e-mails and tracking electronic
communications. The agency was previously restricted to
monitoring “foreign” communications, organizations and people.  While Dotcom was born in  Germany  as Kim Schmitz, he has New
Zealand residency. Key was forced to apologize to Dotcom in
September for the GCSB’s surveillance of him, and Dotcom has
sued the GCSB for intercepting his communications.  He still faces extradition to the U.S., which has described
his cloud-storage Internet site as the biggest copyright
infringement case in its history.  Armed police stormed Dotcom’s Auckland mansion in January
last year, seizing 18  luxury vehicles , including a 1959 pink
Cadillac, art, cash, computers and hard drives.  Dotcom marked the anniversary of the raid this year by
unveiling a successor file-storage and sharing site called Mega,
which uses encryption code to protect content. He has become a
celebrity commentator on Internet freedom.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  