-- NFL Sued by Ex-Players Culp, Riggins,Yary Over Image Use
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-08-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/nfl-sued-by-ex-players-culp-riggins-yary-over-images-use.html
The National Football League was
sued by 10 retired players who claim the NFL unfairly violates
their rights of publicity by using their images to sell NFL
Films products.  Five Hall of Fame players, including Curley Culp, John Riggins, Ron Yary, Dave Casper and Tom Mack, joined the suit
filed Aug. 20 in federal court in Camden, New Jersey. The
complaint claims that a settlement reached this year in a
similar case in  Minnesota  doesn’t go far enough to compensate
former players.  In March, the NFL settled a class-action lawsuit, filed by
John Dryer and others, and agreed to put $42 million in a fund
to help retired players and set up a licensing agency to market
their publicity rights. The new case involves players who opted
out of that settlement, which has preliminary approval of U.S.
District Judge Paul Magnuson in St. Paul, Minnesota.  “NFL Films’ continued use of former players’ images is
unauthorized, and not consented to,” according to the
complaint. “It expropriates for itself and usurps commercial
opportunities that would otherwise flow to and belong to the
former players.”  NFL Films uses raw footage of former players taken from a
vast archive of games and develops promotional and marketing
products, according to the complaint. It films every game, apart
from commercial broadcasts, so that it can assemble promotional
materials to help the NFL brand, the players claim.  League Disappointed  NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy said the league is
“disappointed that a few retired players believe that
additional litigation will be productive in the face of Judge
Magnuson’s decision in April finding that the settlement” is
“fair and reasonable.”  In an April 5 order, Magnuson criticized players who
rejected the settlement, which he said is a “thoughtful,
beneficial” resolution to the case.  “It bears repeating: the individuals who originally
brought this lawsuit and who now oppose the settlement rode into
court on the banner of saving their downtrodden brethren, those
who had played in the NFL yet today were penniless and, often,
suffering from injuries or illnesses directly related to their
playing days,” wrote the judge.  “It is the height of disingenuousness for these same
plaintiffs to now complain, like children denied dessert, that
the settlement does not benefit enough the individuals who
brought the lawsuit,” he wrote.  He has scheduled a final approval hearing for Oct. 17.  Roman Gabriel  Former quarterback Roman Gabriel, one of the plaintiffs in
the New Jersey case, said he originally supported the Dryer
settlement until learning of the details.  “When I talk to other retired players and tell them that
perhaps the biggest benefit of the proposed settlement is that
they can apply for help from a list of existing charities, the
reaction is a combination of anger, disbelief and sadness,”
Gabriel said in a statement by the law firm Hagens Berman Sobol
Shapiro LLP, which helped file the complaint.  “I believe that this new lawsuit gives those former
players who opted out of the Dryer settlement the best chance
for justice,” he said.  The players in the New Jersey case claim that the league
violated federal trademark law and state unfair competition law.  The case is Culp v. NFL Productions LLC d/b/a NFL Films,
13-cv-04999, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Camden). The Minnesota case is Dryer v. National Football
League, 09-cv-02182, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota
(St. Paul).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  