-- NFL Bets on Fantasy Lounges as TV Sports Keeps Some Fans at Home
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-08-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/nfl-bets-on-fantasy-lounges-as-tv-sports-keeps-some-fans-at-home.html
The  National Football League ’s
biggest partner is becoming a competitor.  Television is becoming so adept at covering games that the
NFL, which gets about half its $9.7 billion annual revenue from
broadcast fees, wants to be sure that the comforts of home don’t
become more attractive than the thrills of the stadium.  As teams try to entice fans with things like huge stadium
video screens -- the  Houston Texans  last week unveiled a pair
that each cover one-third of an acre -- the league is embracing
fantasy football as one way to keep people paying to watch games
in person. The Jacksonville Jaguars plan to open a fantasy
football lounge at their EverBank Field this season to cater to
fans as interested in highlights from other games as the action
on the field. The  San Francisco 49ers  and  Atlanta Falcons  have
plans for ones in their new buildings as well.  “Our fans are consuming fantasy sports and stats at a
level they never had before,” Jaguars Senior Vice President
 Hussain Naqi  said in a telephone interview. “We want to remove
any obstacles to a fan coming to the stadium. The lounge will
provide a comfortable environment where they can check their
scores.”  In fantasy football, participants draft teams of NFL
players, then compare their statistics to determine winners. The
game has fans paying attention to more football games to see if
their players are performing well.  The NFL has embraced the pastime, running games from its
website and the  “NFL RedZone”  from its television studio, a
channel that jumps live from game to game to show teams that are
about to score.  Bears Fans  “It makes you watch games you’d otherwise turn off and
cheer for people you’d never cheer for -- Bears fans rooting for
(Green Bay Packers quarterback)  Aaron Rodgers  to throw
touchdowns -- and that’s absolutely fantastic for the league,”
said Scott Minto, director of the sports masters of business
administration program at  San Diego State University . “In
addition to creating rabid fans, more eyeballs on games means
better ratings for the sponsors.”  The league even added a touch of fantasy football to its
annual all-star game, the  Pro Bowl . It announced last month that
players will no longer represent their conferences, rather the
best performers in the league will be drafted by two players
voted by fans and two NFL.com fantasy football champions.  Even though most fantasy football leagues have cash prizes
-- players often contribute to a pool and the top teams split
the money -- the NFL’s stand is that it is a game of skill, not
gambling. The league prohibits all personnel from betting on
games.  “Someone would have to go to extreme lengths to corrupt
numerous players on numerous teams to manipulate their play in
order to gather points for a fantasy team,” NFL spokesman  Brian McCarthy  said in an e-mail.  Trade Association  About 25.1 million people play fantasy football in the U.S.,
according to the Chicago-based Fantasy Sports Trade Association.
About $3.38 billion is spent annually in the U.S. on fantasy
sports. The trade association estimates that three-quarters of
that, or about $2.54 billion, is spent on football.  One-third of NFL fans play fantasy football, and that’s why
more teams will be catering to their needs, said Paul Charchian,
46, president of the association and LeagueSafe.com, a company
that processes fantasy league fees.  “There is so much down time in stadiums -- commercial
timeouts, quarter breaks and halftime -- those are moments when
people are hitting their phones trying to get fantasy team
updates,” Charchian said.  This is why most NFL teams will eventually create lounges
like the Jaguars and 49ers, where they can accommodate both
interests, he said. The pace of the game is perfectly suited to
allow fantasy players to make a quick trip to the lounge before
and during games.  Lineup Change  “Now, when you’re at the game and it is 2 p.m. and one of
your players is suddenly not going to play, you can go make a
lineup change,” Charchian said.  Fantasy football joins other lures like massive high-definition televisions to try to make the stadium experience
better for fans. The Texans’ new  video boards  at Reliant Stadium
are 277 by 52 feet (84 by 16 meters) over each end zone. They
trumped the league’s previous biggest, the two-sided 60-by-160
feet one at  Cowboys Stadium  in Arlington,  Texas .  Sports Bar  In Jacksonville, the 7,000-square-foot fantasy lounge has
the feel of a high-tech sports bar, with high-density Wi-Fi, a
separate drinks and food menu, and access for any fan with a
ticket, Naqi said. The team plans to generate revenue from
concessions and a sponsorship agreement. Naqi wouldn’t say how
much it cost to build, or how much revenue the team expects to
generate. The franchise’s goal is fan satisfaction and improved
attendance, he said.  Jacksonville, which finished 2-14 last season, has had
trouble selling out its stadium in recent years. In 2005, it
covered nearly 10,000 seats to reduce capacity so its games
wouldn’t be blacked out on local television. The team hasn’t
blacked out a game since 2009, but has been forced to take added
measures to sell tickets. Last season team officials allowed
fans to bring food into the stadium, and sold unused seats for
as low as $20 an hour before kickoff.  The average cost for a family of four to attend an NFL game
last season was $443.93, up 3.9 percent from a year earlier,
according to Team Marketing Report. The Chicago-based publisher
of sports sponsorship information said average tickets cost
$78.38, parking $27.35, a beer $7.28 and a hot dog $4.84.  When the 49ers open the $1.3 billion Levis Stadium in  Santa
Clara ,  California , next August, founding partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) 
will create a fantasy lounge in a club area where 1,500 fans can
follow their teams.  Fantasy Technology  The 49ers, who lost last year’s  Super Bowl  to the  Baltimore
Ravens , 34-31, say it will become the most technologically
innovative space in the NFL. Yahoo will use the space to promote
its slate of fantasy game products.  “Technology, interactivity and fantasy sports; that’s what
really drives our ratings and keeps people coming back,” Paraag Marathe, 36, the 49ers’ chief operating officer, said in an
interview. “We should have a place that harnesses that.”  Like the Jaguars, the 49ers don’t see the fantasy lounge as
a direct driver of revenue. Indirectly, it will contribute, said
 David Carter , executive director of the University of Southern
California’s Sports Business Institute in  Los Angeles .  “Embracing fantasy football at the stadiums simultaneously
allows fantasy players to let those in their league, their
friends, and others know that they are enjoying the game day
experience,” Carter said in an interview. “This will create
buzz and, managed properly, drive revenue as these fans are up-sold on other NFL content and merchandise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  