-- Nigeria’s Cocoa Farms Turn to New Beans to Help Double Output
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2013-08-21T11:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/nigeria-s-cocoa-farms-turn-to-new-beans-to-help-double-output.html
Nigeria , the fourth-largest cocoa
grower in the world, is counting on early-maturing, high-yielding, disease-resistant beans to help double the country’s
production in two years.  “We’re distributing eight varieties of the plant that
mature in about 18 months to farmers in the 14 cocoa producing
states to replace the traditional crop with four to five years
maturity,” Malachy Akoroda, chief executive of the Cocoa
Research Institute of Nigeria, said yesterday in an interview in
Abeokuta, the capital of Ogun state, in the southwestern part of
the country.  Africa’s second-largest economy plans to double cocoa
production to 500,000 metric tons in two years, Akinwunmi Ayo Adesina, minister of agriculture and natural resources, said
June 6.  The new varieties produce 1 1/2 metric tons of cocoa per
hectare (2.47 acres) each season compared with the older types
which yield 1/2 ton, Akoroda said.  The institute is training farmers on weeding and pest
control, crop spacing, fertilizer application and harvest
techniques, Akoroda said.  The main crop season, which usually starts around the end
of August, could see output reaching 300,000 tons to 320,000
tons, up from 250,000 tons last year, Robo Adhuze, spokesman for
the Cocoa Association of Nigeria, said June 21. The group’s next
forecast is expected at the end of the month.  Nigeria’s cocoa year is divided into two harvests with the
main one beginning in October and ending in January, while the
smaller crop usually begins in April and ends in June. The dates
may vary each year depending on the weather.  The West African nation ranks behind the  Ivory Coast ,  Ghana 
and  Indonesia  as the world’s largest cocoa producer, according
to the London-based  International Cocoa Organization .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  