-- E-Mails to Web Searches Taken Illegally, U.S. Court Found
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-08-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/nsa-illegally-intercepted-americans-messages-u-s-court-found.html
Tens of thousands of Americans who
sent e-mails from 2008 to 2011 had some of them scooped up by an
unintended recipient: the National Security Agency.  The NSA intercepted as many as 56,000 electronic
communications a year of Americans who weren’t suspected of
having links to terrorism before a secret court found the
operation unconstitutional in 2011, according to legal opinions
that were  declassified yesterday .  The finding raises new questions about President  Barack Obama ’s assurances that the NSA hasn’t been engaged in a
“domestic spying program.” The disclosure also added to
demands by members Congress for more oversight of the agency.
Lawmakers have been preparing legislation that would curb U.S.
surveillance operations for consideration when they return from
a break next month.  Release of the documents “begins to appropriately draw
back the curtain on the secret law of government surveillance,”
Democratic Senator Patrick Leahy of  Vermont , chairman of the
Senate Judiciary Committee, said yesterday in a statement.
“They also underscore the need for increased oversight and
stronger protections for Americans’ privacy.”  The NSA’s electronic-data collection was rejected in an
Oct. 3, 2011, order by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Court.  The program intercepted tens of thousands of electronic
communications by Americans, such as e-mails, along fiber-optic
cables and networks that make up the Internet’s backbone in
violation of a 2008 law, Judge John Bates wrote.  ‘Fundamentally Different’  “For the first time, the government has now advised the
court that the volume and nature of the information it has been
collecting is fundamentally different from what the court had
been led to believe,” Bates said in the ruling finding that the
data collection wasn’t consistent with the Constitution’s Fourth
Amendment protections against unreasonable searches and
seizures.  The NSA revised the program, including installing a way to
segregate the communications of Americans from those of
foreigners suspected of terrorism. Bates approved the revisions
in a Nov. 30, 2011, order that also was made public.  A separate “memorandum opinion” from the court that was
declassified yesterday said the collection activity actually had
been going on since 2006.  The extent of the NSA’s spying efforts has been the focus
of controversy since its secret programs were made public by
former agency contractor Edward Snowden.  ‘No Spying’  Obama said on Aug. 6 that “there is no spying on
Americans” by the government.  “What we do have are some mechanisms where we can track a
phone number or an e-mail address that we know is connected to
some sort of terrorist threat,” the president said on NBC’s
“Tonight Show With Jay Leno.”  The court order on intercepted Internet communications was
declassified yesterday by the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence after it was described last week in a Washington
Post report. That article, based on documents provided by
Snowden, focused on a separate audit that found the NSA broke
privacy rules thousands of times in a year.  Snowden, who faces U.S. espionage charges, has been granted
temporary asylum in  Russia .  The NSA acquired more than 250 million Internet
communications each year under the program that was reviewed by
the surveillance court, most of which were collected through
Internet companies, according to the court order.  Upstream Collection  About 9 percent of those communications -- almost 23
million -- were collected “upstream,” a reference to the
cables that comprise the Internet’s backbone, according to the
order that found the collection illegal.  The 2008 law requires the NSA to obtain a warrant to
collect the communications of Americans.  In one sample that the NSA gathered for the surveillance
court in 2011, 996 to 4,965 of 13.5 million “Internet
transactions” collected upstream over six months contained “a
wholly domestic” communication, according to the order.  The NSA “knowingly acquires tens of thousands of wholly
domestic communications each year,” said Bates, a U.S. district
judge who was appointed to the surveillance oversight court by
U.S. Chief Justice John Roberts.  The collection of innocent Americans’ records occurred by
mistake because the agency pulled communications off the
Internet backbone in bundles, Robert Litt, general counsel for
the director of national intelligence, told reporters yesterday.  Shorter Retention  The NSA submitted its revised procedures to the court three
weeks after the Oct. 3 order, according to an intelligence
official who briefed reporters and asked not to be identified
discussing the sensitive material.  Along with developing a procedure intended to segregate the
communications of Americans not known to have links to
terrorism, the NSA agreed to reduce the amount of time that
communications collected off the Internet backbone are retained
to two years from five, the official said.  The NSA also deleted all communications collected under the
program before the Oct. 3, 2011, court ruling, Litt said.  “Mistakes and errors can and will happen,” Director of
National Intelligence James Clapper said in a statement. “The
government undertakes extraordinary measures to faithfully
identify, record and correct its mistakes and to put systems and
processes in place that seek to prevent mistakes from occurring
in the first place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  