-- OGX Bondholders Said to Hire Rothschild for Restructuring
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-08-21T17:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/ogx-bondholders-said-to-hire-rothschild-for-restructuring.html
Bondholders of  Eike Batista ’s OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the oil-production company that
may run out of cash this month, hired Rothschild to advise on a
debt restructuring, a person with direct knowledge of the matter
said.  Rothschild, Jefferies Group LLC, Moelis & Co. and  FTI
Consulting Inc. (FCN)  were competing to advise the  bondholders ’
committee, which is led by Pacific Investment Management Co. and
other international funds, people familiar with the matter said
this week. Rothschild won the assignment, one of the people said
today, asking not to be identified because the selection process
is private.  Officials at Rothschild and Pimco declined to comment on
the hiring.  OGX’s bonds, the worst performing emerging-market debt this
year, have tumbled on deepening losses and missed production
targets. Cash reserves plunged 72 percent as writedowns
generated a record second-quarter loss of 4.7 billion reais ($2
billion), the Rio de Janeiro-based company said in a  statement 
last week. OGX will run out of cash by the end of this month,
based on the pace of decline in the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  OGX, controlled by Batista,  faces  interest payments of
about $45 million on its outstanding bonds in October and $110
million in December, and “we believe the company’s cash sources
will not be sufficient to cover these commitments,” Renata
Lotfi, an analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  rating company, said in a
statement last week.  Hiring Blackstone  The company had cash of $326 million at the end of the
second quarter, almost equal to its capital spending of $316
million in the period, OGX said last week. It hired Blackstone
Group LP “for the ongoing evaluation of its  capital
structure ,” according to an Aug. 14 regulatory filing.  The  bondholders ’ committee represents investors in more
than 50 percent of the total $3.6 billion of bonds outstanding,
the people said. Creditors will demand a new controlling
shareholder to replace Batista if the company attempts to impose
losses through a bond swap or buyback, one of the people said.  Batista is selling pieces of his energy, commodities and
logistics companies after his estimated fortune plummeted from
$34.5 billion in March of last year to less than $1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  On May 8, Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. said it would
pay $850 million for a 40 percent share in the Tubarao Martelo
oil field owned by OGX.  Mubadala Development Co., the Abu Dhabi sovereign-wealth
fund, is in talks to buy some of Batista’s assets for about $1
billion, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said
this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  