-- Toll Brothers Quarterly Sales Jump as Housing Recovers
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-08-21T20:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/toll-brothers-third-quarter-profit-drops-on-tax-expense.html
Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S.
luxury-home builder, reported a jump in quarterly sales and
orders as prices climbed in a rebounding U.S. housing market.  Revenue for the three months through July increased 24
percent to $689.2 million, the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based
company said today in a statement. Orders rose 26 percent to
1,405 homes, exceeding analysts’ estimate for 24 percent growth,
Adam Rudiger, an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co ., wrote in a note.  A tight supply of existing houses on the market is driving
up demand for newly built properties. Toll Brothers, which
mainly serves affluent buyers, is less vulnerable than
competitors to rising  mortgage rates , which have cooled orders
at companies including D.R. Horton Inc., said Megan McGrath, a
 Stamford , Connecticut-based analyst with MKM Partners LLC.  “We are just not hearing that the moving rates has
affected our business,” Toll Brothers Chief Executive Officer
Douglas Yearley said on a conference call today. “We raised
prices more this spring than we did last spring.”  Toll Brothers  shares  closed little changed at $31.65. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index fell 0.6
percent after minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s July meeting
showed officials support reducing stimulus this year if the
economy improves, which may lead to higher mortgage rates.  Lower Profit  Toll Brothers’s profit fell in the third quarter, hurt by a
tax expense of $21.7 million after a benefit of $18.7 million in
the prior year. Net income was $46.6 million, or 26 cents a
share, compared with $61.6 million, or 36 cents, a year earlier.
That matched the average  estimate  of 14 analysts, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Home closings climbed 24 percent to 1,059. The average
price jumped to $651,000 from $576,000 a year earlier, boosted
by deals at Toll’s luxury Touraine building in  Manhattan .
Excluding that property, the average price of Toll Brothers
homes delivered in the quarter was $612,000.  The penthouse at the Touraine is still for sale, Yearley
said. The asking price is $20 million, according to
StreetEasy.com.  “In terms of how are various markets are doing,  New York 
City urban is still on top of the list,” Yearley said during
the earnings call. “Both Northern and Southern California are
right behind.”  Toll Brothers has 12 New York City-area projects in the
pipeline and is exploring expanding its high-rise developments
to Boston,  San Francisco  and Miami, Yearley said.  Sales of previously owned homes jumped 6.5 percent last
month to the fastest pace since November 2009, the National
Association of Realtors reported today. Purchases climbed to a
5.39 million annual rate, more than the median economist
forecast of 5.15 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  