-- Rousseff Said to Meet Tombini and Mantega on Brazil’s Real
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-08-21T22:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/tombini-to-skip-jackson-hole-to-monitor-brazilian-markets.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
is meeting with central bank President Alexandre Tombini and
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  today to discuss the weakening
real, according to a government official.  The official requested not to be named because he isn’t
authorized to comment on the issue publicly.  Tombini also will skip this week’s meeting of the world’s
top monetary policy makers in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming  and will
remain in Brazil to monitor markets, said a central bank
spokeswoman who couldn’t be identified in line with bank policy.
Tombini had been scheduled to attend the Aug. 22-24 gathering,
according to a version of his agenda published on the central
bank website last week.  Brazil’s central bank has stepped up efforts to stem
declines by the real after the currency tumbled to a 4 1/2 year
low this week. The real’s fall prompted policy makers to
announce they will roll over more than $5 billion in currency
swap contracts to limit further declines.  Traders also expect the central bank to raise the Selic
target rate at their Aug. 27-28 meeting as the weakening
currency threatens to fan inflation. Policy makers over their
past three gatherings boosted borrowing costs a total of 125
basis points.  “The real continues to move only in one direction and the
market will continue to focus on the potential inflation pass
through with this speed of depreciation,” Nomura Securities
analyst Andre Ikeda said in a research note e-mailed to clients
today.  Swap Rates  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015, the most
traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose 20 basis points to 10.46 percent
from yesterday. The real fell 2.5 percent to 2.4543 per  U.S.
dollar  today, and in the past three months has weakened 17
percent -- the fastest pace among the 16 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s central bank will supply currency hedge and
liquidity to all market segments as needed, Tombini said in a
statement posted on the central bank website Aug. 19. One-way
bets in the  currency market  may lead to losses, Tombini added.  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15  price index   rose 
0.16 percent from July 13 to Aug. 13, the national statistics
agency said in a report published on its website today. That
exceeded the median forecast of a 0.15 percent increase from
economists surveyed by Bloomberg and was more than double the
0.07 percent inflation rate in mid-July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  