-- Online Lenders, Nacchio Refund, FERC Nominee: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-08-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/online-lenders-nacchio-refund-ferc-nominee-compliance.html
The Online Lenders Alliance wants
the group that manages a U.S. payment system to clarify warnings
on illegal use of the network by payday-loan firms, saying the
message is posing a threat to legitimate business.  Nacha, which coordinates the  Automated Clearing House 
network, should explain that legal online lending shouldn’t be
blocked from its system, Lisa S. McGreevy, president and chief
executive officer of the Online Lenders Alliance, wrote in a
letter last week. Banks have gotten the wrong impression from
Nacha based on its Aug. 8 letter calling on them to guard
against acting as gateways for illicit loans, she wrote.  McGreevy wrote that banks, misinterpreting the Aug. 8
letter, have seen it as a directive to cut off processing for
all online lenders.  Payday loans transacted on the Internet use the network for
both the credits and debits involved in the loans, and the
lenders must conduct them through banks. In its Aug. 8 letter,
Nacha explained it was trying to stamp out network use for
illegal ends and told the banks “it is imperative that you
immediately review your origination activity for the payday
lenders” and terminate originations that violate Nacha rules.  Nacha’s media office didn’t respond to messages seeking
comment on the letter from Alexandria, Virginia-based OLA.  Regulators have pressured banks to cut ties with online
lenders, and examiners from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
have audited banks to determine whether they work with some of
the lenders, according to people briefed on their work who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the regulator communications
are confidential.  Compliance Policy  Mortgage Insurers Face Global Regulator Call for Capital Buffers  Companies that insure banks’ mortgage debt should undergo
regular stress tests and build up bigger  capital buffers  to
bolster their resilience to crises, global regulators said.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, in tandem with
global market and insurance regulators, said mortgage insurers
should be required to build up long-term reserves that could be
tapped when defaults peak, and should face tougher oversight.  The collapse of the subprime mortgage market was one of the
major drivers of the global financial crisis in 2007. The
turmoil prompted a push by regulators to make the market more
robust and a series of probes into how banks constructed and
sold securities underpinned by this debt.  Mortgage insurance is widely used in only a few nations,
including the U.S.,  Canada ,  France  and  Australia , according to
the report. In Canada and Hong Kong, insurance is mandatory on
high loan-to-value mortgages, while in the U.S.  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ,
 Freddie Mac (FMCC)  and other government-sponsored housing enterprises
require it on loans they purchase with LTV above 80 percent,
according to the report.  U.S.-based mortgage insurers include  PMI Group Inc. (PPMIQ) ,  Radian
Group Inc. (RDN)  and  MGIC Investment Corp. (MGT)   Compliance Action  Sweden Hits EQT, Partners With $100 Million in Tax Charges  EQT Partners AB, a private equity investor, said it will
appeal a decision by the Swedish tax authority to impose
647 million kronor ($100 million) in retroactive taxes on the
company, its employees and partners.  Sweden’s tax authority has ruled that the return on certain
investments in EQT funds should be taxed as income and not as
capital gains in the years from 2007 to 2009, the Stockholm-based fund said in a statement.  “We’ve done this in exactly the same way for almost 20
years,” said Johan Bygge, chief operating officer at EQT
Holdings AB. “The tax authority has now decided to make another
interpretation and we think that’s very unfortunate because it
creates great uncertainty for the company and the staff.”  The decision is the result of a review that started in 2007
on how private-equity companies and their employees and partners
declare their income, said Helena Bigander, a project leader at
the  Swedish Tax Agency  in  Stockholm .  The ruling will impose extra taxes of 313 million kronor on
income of 19 staff or partners at the company. EQT Partners will
have to pay another 334 million kronor for the same period, in
addition to the 100 million kronor it was told to pay for a
similar decision relating to income from 2006.  Former KPMG Employee Reprimanded by Dutch Body Over Vestia Audit  A former  KPMG  NV accountant was censured for approving the
2010 accounts of Stichting Vestia Groep, a Dutch housing
provider that required a bailout after falling interest rates
triggered losses on derivatives.  The accountant “planned and executed the audit of the 2010
annual accounts with insufficient depth and an insufficiently
professional and critical attitude,” the Dutch accounting
disciplinary chamber  said  in an e-mailed statement from the city
of Zwolle Aug. 19. “That led him to approve the accounts while
no sound basis can be established for that.”  KPMG withdrew its approval for the 2010 annual accounts in
April last year after a preliminary investigation raised doubt
over whether Vestia’s derivatives had been processed properly.
KPMG  quit  as Vestia’s accountants in October, saying ongoing
procedures before the disciplinary chamber threatened its
independence.  The name of the accountant and the firm he worked for at
the time were blacked out in the ruling. KPMG took notice of the
rulings and is studying them, said Eric Bouwmeester, a spokesman
for the company. The accountant who was reprimanded no longer
works for the firm, he said.  The disciplinary chamber said a reprimand was sufficient as
the person involved no longer worked as an external auditor and
suffered from publicity in the case.  Courts  Ex-Qwest Head Nacchio Seeks Tax Refund as His Prison Term Ends  Ex-Qwest Communications International Inc. chief Joseph
Nacchio, finishing his insider-trading sentence in home
confinement, argues that he deserves a refund of almost
$18 million for taxes on illegal stock sales.  Judge Mary Ellen Coster Williams of the U.S. Court of
Federal Claims in  Washington  was expected yesterday to hear
Nacchio’s lawyers argue that $44.6 million he forfeited to the
government from tainted stock transactions is deductible because
it was used to compensate victims of his fraud.  Nacchio, 64, the former chairman and chief executive
officer of Denver-based Qwest, was found guilty in 2007 of
selling company stock based on warnings, withheld from other
investors, that it would miss revenue targets. He’s set for
release on Sept. 21, according to the Federal Bureau of Prisons
website.  Nacchio and his wife sued the U.S. in January 2012 for a
tax refund.  The U.S. asked Coster Williams to throw out the case,
arguing in court papers that the decision by the U.S. attorney
general, at his discretion, to use “Nacchio’s forfeiture to
compensate victims of Nacchio’s fraud does not magically convert
the criminal forfeiture into a compensatory fine.”  The case is Nacchio v. U.S., 12-00020, U.S. Court of
Federal Claims (Washington).  Porsche Plaintiffs Lose Bids for Access to Prosecutors’ Files  A Merckle Group unit and two other companies were denied
access to Stuttgart prosecutors’ files that might have helped
their civil lawsuits against Porsche SE over the failed bid for
 Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   The Stuttgart Higher Regional Court rebuffed an attempt to
collect information from the investigation of former Porsche
executives Wendelin Wiedeking and Holger Haerter, according to a
judgment published in a database of court rulings. The Merckle
unit, HWO GmbH, can’t be considered a victim of the alleged
crimes, the judges said, because the rules protect only the
public interest.  The ruling is a setback for plaintiffs in the German cases
against Porsche, which are seeking more than 5 billion euros
($6.7 billion) combined. German law grants only limited access
to information from parties to lawsuits.  The civil suits are part of a series of cases Porsche has
faced.  HWO spokeswoman Vivien Kraft declined to comment yesterday.  Wiedeking, Porsche’s former chief executive officer, and
Haerter, the former chief financial officer, were charged in
December with market manipulation. Both deny the allegations.  The cases are OLG Stuttgart, 1 Ws 112/13, 1 Ws 149/13 and 1
Ws 150/13.  Comings and Goings  Coal Foe Named to FERC Is Latest Obama Pick Drawing Industry Ire  President  Barack Obama ’s nomination of Ron Binz to be
chairman of the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has
sparked the contentious debate over climate change.  Environmentalists have hired a public-relations firm to aid
Binz’s Senate confirmation. He has drawn the ire of coal-industry interests for advocating policies that mining companies
said encouraged the conversion of power plants to natural gas
when he served as  Colorado ’s top utility regulator.  The Green Tech Action Fund, a San Francisco-based nonprofit
that backs green energy technology, hired VennSquared
Communications LLC, a Washington-based political consultancy, to
advocate on Binz’s behalf.  His nomination is the latest flashpoint in the battle
between fossil-fuel and clean-energy groups as Obama makes
tackling climate change a key goal of his second term.  Binz declined an interview request, saying he hasn’t
granted interviews since Obama announced his nomination June 27.  VennSquared’s support is an “insurance policy” so stories
about Binz are accurate when “anybody with a blog can sit out
there and make an assertion,” Michael Meehan, the firm’s
president, said in an interview.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New York  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  