-- Too Many Cooks Is Reason for Financial Rule Delays
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-21T14:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/too-many-cooks-is-reason-for-financial-rule-delays.html
In  Washington , they call it being
taken to the woodshed. That’s what happened this week when
President  Barack Obama  summoned nine financial regulators to
come in  for a talk . The president wanted to know what’s taking
them so long to write the rules needed to make sure that the
2008 economic crisis won’t be repeated.  After all, it has been more than three years since the
Dodd-Frank financial reform law passed. Yet less than 40 percent
of the  law’s requirements  have been met.  One reason is the long list of agencies represented in
Obama’s office: the  U.S. Treasury , the  Federal Reserve , the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ,
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., the  National Credit Union Administration  and
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Our head is spinning, too. Many of these have  overlapping
duties . And the leaders of all the agencies seem to have the
natural impulse that drives bureaucracies: elbows-out protection
of turf. The result is a lot of unnecessary delay.  Possibly the most important Dodd-Frank  mandate  still
hanging is the Volcker rule, which bars banks with federally
guaranteed deposits from using their own funds when trading
securities. Five agencies have a hand in writing it, and each
has a veto. No wonder it’s a year behind schedule.  Also pending are important rules governing how Wall Street
bundles mortgages into bonds for sale to investors, limits on
the use of leverage by banks, and requirements for money to be
set aside on certain derivatives trades. All require multiple
regulators’ cooperation and agreement.  Historical Accident  Yes,  Wall Street  lobbying and reasonable differences over
the finer points of policy explain some of the hang-ups. But so
does the multiplicity of agencies involved. Take the patchwork
of so-called prudential bank regulators -- the ones that protect
consumer deposits by making sure banks have enough capital and
otherwise operate in a safe and sound manner -- which is largely
an accident of history. Broadly speaking, the comptroller of the
currency oversees national banks, the Fed monitors bank holding
companies, and the FDIC handles community banks, but some
institutions must answer to them all. At times, a bank can have
examiners from all three crawling over its books and records.
And we aren’t even getting into state-level regulation.  In 2009, Obama considered streamlining the system,
including by collapsing four banking agencies into one and
combining the SEC and CFTC. It made sense, and could have saved
taxpayers a bundle. Sadly, he dismissed the idea because he
wanted to avoid the territorial battles that would have erupted
on  Capitol Hill  and among the regulators.  By choosing the expedient route, Obama may have baked in
the very delays he hoped to avoid.  The Volcker rule deserves special attention in this regard.
More than any regulation, it would address the too-big-to-fail
issue by reducing the risks that the largest banks pose to
taxpayers. But the three banking agencies are at odds with one
another and with the SEC over how to distinguish legitimate
market-making (buying and selling securities on behalf of a
client) and hedging -- the two types of proprietary trading that
the law allows -- from high-risk speculative trading.  Another interagency skirmish is taking place among six
regulators who have been drafting a qualified residential
mortgage rule. It will dictate when lenders must keep some of
the risk on their own books of the mortgages they originate and
then sell to Wall Street. Similarly, the Department of Labor is
in a pitched battle with the SEC over whether securities brokers
should have the same fiduciary duty toward customers that
investment advisers now must have.  But with 60 percent of the Dodd-Frank Act’s directives to
come, it behooves the president to keep a fire under regulators’
feet. If he truly wants to see regulators hustle, he should
invite Congress to work with him on a cost-saving, bureaucracy-slimming financial agency overhaul.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 