-- Mosaic Deal Hopes Fade as BHP Bets on Own Mine: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-08-22T14:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/mosaic-deal-hopes-fade-as-bhp-bets-on-own-mine-real-m-a.html
Mosaic Co. (MOS) ’s takeover prospects are
diminishing after  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  renewed a commitment to
building its own potash mine.  BHP this week said it plans to see the Jansen potash
project through to production as it invests $2.6 billion and
seeks partners, damping speculation that the world’s biggest
mining company may still consider a purchase of fertilizer maker
Mosaic. Mosaic’s enterprise value has fallen to $14.8 billion,
about the same as the estimated cost of constructing Jansen, its
first potash mine.  Buying Mosaic would have been a logical alternative to
building Jansen, which may not begin producing fertilizer until
2020, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said. Mosaic became a cheaper
target this month as it dropped to its lowest price relative to
book value on concern that the breakup of a Russian-led export
venture will flood the market with supply and suppress potash
prices. Even as hurdles to a sale of Mosaic were lifted this
year, potential buyers are scarce, especially as BHP’s new
project promises even more supply to come.  “The additional spending shows BHP wants to go ahead with
Jansen,” Paul McTaggart, a Sydney-based analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, said in a phone interview. “There’s now no
turning back.”  A Mosaic takeover is “wishful thinking” on the part of
Mosaic shareholders, he said.  Plymouth, Minnesota-based Mosaic doesn’t comment on
speculation, said spokesman Rob Litt, when asked about the
potential for a sale.  Less Risky  BHP, based in  Melbourne , declined to comment on a potential
acquisition of Mosaic. Completing the Jansen project and
eventually starting production at the mine “is indeed my
intention,” BHP Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mackenzie  said
Aug. 20 on a call with reporters.  BHP is cautiously entering a new market “in a very
flexible way,” he said. That approach is less risky than
“paying a huge sum of money up front into something where
you’re in or you’re out.”  Since its $40 billion hostile bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. was blocked by  Canada  in 2010, BHP has focused
on Jansen in the same province. If completed, Jansen will be the
largest single source of the potassium-based mineral, with a
projected production capacity of 10 million metric tons a year.
Potash is a vital nutrient for corn and soybeans.  BHP’s total commitment to the project is about $3.8 billion
so far, the company said this week. Jansen may end up costing
BHP a total of about $16 billion, according to Citigroup Inc.  Potash Market  The price of the crop nutrient is predicted to slide after
Russia’s OAO Uralkali, the largest producer, said in a surprise
announcement July 30 that it decided to quit a marketing venture
that controlled about 43 percent of global exports and to end
output restrictions that underpinned prices. Uralkali said
potash may tumble to less than $300 a ton from about $400
currently.  If the price of the fertilizer falls to $300 a ton, Jansen
may not generate an “appropriate” return for BHP, Bank of
America Corp. wrote in a note Aug. 5. Citigroup also has said
the project isn’t viable if prices drop that low.  “Mosaic could be an interesting alternative to building
Jansen,” according to the Bank of America note. Mosaic “is a
scale asset capable of producing similar potash volumes to
Jansen.”  An acquisition of Mosaic would instantly give BHP control
of the world’s second-largest potash producer by market value,
as well as a phosphate business that had $6.5 billion of revenue
in the last year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Mosaic has annual potash capacity of more than 10 million tons.  Hurdles Removed  Hurdles to a Mosaic takeover were recently lifted. May
marked the two-year anniversary of Mosaic’s tax-free split from
Cargill Inc., meaning a suitor won’t bear tax liabilities it
could have faced buying the company before that milestone.
Charitable trusts associated with Cargill’s founding family can
also begin the process of selling restricted Mosaic shares,
though they’ve chosen not to yet.  Mosaic’s stock has also gotten cheaper. On Aug. 6, about a
week after Uralkali’s announcement, Mosaic’s equity sank to just
1.29 times the company’s book value, a record low, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Its price-to-book  ratio  was still hovering
near that level yesterday, after the stock closed at $40.97.  “An acquisition is much more attractive at these kinds of
prices,” Paul Gait, a London-based analyst at Bernstein, said
in a phone interview. Projects as large as Jansen are usually
“delayed and over budget. With Mosaic, you know what you’re
getting.”  Today, Mosaic shares rose 1.4 percent to $41.54 at 10:10
a.m.  New York  time. BHP fell 1 percent to A$35.37.  Resisting Sale  Mosaic isn’t planning any specific actions following
Uralkali’s move, Chief Financial Officer Larry Stranghoener said
in a July 30 phone interview.  “We’re ready for anything,” Stranghoener said. “We’ve
got the strongest balance sheet in the industry and it’s a great
time to have a strong balance sheet when you’re going through
something like this. We have a very strong and vibrant phosphate
business which is not affected by what’s going on in the potash
business today.”  Mosaic had $3.7 billion in  cash  and $1.1 billion of debt as
of May 31.  Mosaic probably doesn’t want to sell at such a low
valuation, said Tim Beranek, a  money manager  at Denver-based
Cambiar Investors LLC, which oversees about $8.8 billion and
 owns  the stock. He said a takeover bid may need to top $70 a
share, 71 percent more than its price yesterday.  No Suitors  BHP’s Mackenzie said this week Jansen may not start
producing until as early as 2020, later than prior estimates of
2017.  BHP could have used Jansen as a bargaining chip to persuade
Mosaic to sell itself because the project will introduce more
competition and supply, Gait said. A deal is less likely now
that BHP is investing more in Jansen, and there probably won’t
be other suitors for Mosaic in the near future, he said.  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  and  Rio Tinto  Group don’t “have the
balance sheet for it,” Gait said.  Glencore Xstrata already had $53 billion in  debt  and only
$3.6 billion in  cash  and equivalents as of June 30, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. This week the company wrote down the
value of assets gained in its $29 billion takeover of Xstrata
Plc by $7.7 billion. Rio Tinto has $30 billion of debt and $7.8
billion in cash and equivalents.  ‘Formidable Strategy’  Charles Watenphul, a spokesman for Glencore Xstrata, said
the company doesn’t comment on speculation, when asked about its
appetite for large acquisitions such as Mosaic.  Illtud Harri, a spokesman at London-based Rio Tinto, also
declined to comment. Rio Tinto CEO  Sam Walsh  took over in
January after his predecessor stepped down following about $14
billion of writedowns for failed deals.  BHP had a market value yesterday of A$184 billion ($165
billion), dwarfing Glencore at $63 billion and Rio Tinto’s $89
billion.  BHP’s potash plans will probably stretch beyond just the
Jansen project because the world’s biggest mining company won’t
settle for being a small participant in the industry,  Steve Hansen , a Vancouver-based analyst with Raymond James Financial
Inc., wrote in a report Aug. 21.  “Jansen, on a standalone basis, lands far from being a
prudent and logical potash ‘strategy,’” Hansen wrote. “Tying
Jansen together with a leading set of potash assets, for
instance, would indeed be a formidable strategy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  