-- Toyota Acts to Bolster Corolla-Camry Against Competition
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-08-21T22:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/toyota-sees-steady-camry-prices-amid-u-s-competition.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , facing rising
competition from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Honda Motor Co., is moving
to shore up sales of its flagship Camry and Corolla sedans in
the U.S., its biggest market.  Toyota is bringing out a redesigned Corolla next month with
improved looks and performance intended to broaden its appeal.
The world’s largest automaker also plans to keep prices steady
on Camry as it defends the model’s bragging rights as the top-selling car in the U.S.  The company has been losing share this year in the U.S.,
posting the smallest sales gains among the six top automakers.
The Honda Accord, Nissan Altima and Ford Fusion have gained
ground on Camry, the top-selling car in the U.S. for 11 years,
while the  Honda (7267)  Civic is outpacing Corolla among subcompacts.  “The standards for modern cars keep rising, which puts
pressure on established models like the Corolla,” said Karl Brauer, an analyst for Kelley Blue Book, an automotive pricing
and data company in  Irvine ,  California . “Being safe, reliable
and refined isn’t enough anymore.”  With Corolla, Toyota has produced a new look with knife-edge creases, a gaping, trapezoidal grille and a sport-sedan
slant. The redesigned model was shown off at a lavish party in
Santa Monica, California, in June. This week, Toyota is letting
reviewers get a taste of the car’s ride and handling that Bill Fay, U.S. group vice president for the Toyota brand, said is now
better than Corolla’s reputation.  A ‘Wow’  “If we can add it in as one of those ‘wows,’ as one of
those things people are not expecting in the car, then I think
that’s only going to help us,” Fay said in an interview in San
Diego Aug. 20 at the drive event. For Corolla buyers,
performance is “not a top purchase consideration” such as
price, quality, reliability and fuel economy, he said.  Corolla is the subject of a dispute between Toyota and
Ford. The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker says Focus is the
world’s best-selling model by nameplate. Toyota, which sells the
Corolla under different names in some markets, rejects that
definition. The Toyota City, Japan-based company said it has
sold more than 40 million Corollas over 47 years.  In the U.S., Honda’s Civic, after a rushed refreshing, was
the top-selling compact in 2013’s first seven months with
191,120 deliveries to Corolla’s 183,435 and 151,549 for the
Focus. Toyota plans to sell about 300,000 Corollas in the U.S.
this year and 330,000 in 2014, with a full supply of the
revamped model, Fay told reporters in San Diego.  Redesigned Corolla  Toyota engineers stiffened Corolla’s frame and reworked the
model’s transmission and underpinnings to wring more
responsiveness and handling out of the unchanged 132 horsepower
of the main LE and sporty S grades.  “We developed the dynamic driving performance of the new
Corolla with the European market in mind, whose drivers have a
strong handling requirement,” Shinichi Yasui, Corolla’s chief
engineer, told reporters Aug. 20.  Corolla’s fuel economy rises to 32 miles (51 kilometers)
per gallon in combined city and highway driving for the LE
version with Toyota’s new continuously variable transmission, up
from 29 mpg for the current LE with a four-speed automatic
transmission. That matches the combined-driving ratings of the
Civic and Hyundai Motor Co.’s Elantra. A new LE ECO version gets
42 mpg on the highway and a combined 35 mpg, Toyota said.  With Camry, U.S. sales rose 16 percent last month to 34,780
only after Toyota offered incentives of $2,581 per Camry
compared with $627 for each Accord, according to Edmunds.com.  Executive’s View  “For incentives, we don’t think that our current level is
necessarily high, but traditionally, we try not to be too
dependent on them,” Nobuyori Kodaira, executive vice president
at Toyota, said yesterday during a briefing in Tokyo. “I can’t
really comment on our future plans, but our plan for now is to
stick to that as much as possible.”  Ford,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC, with the
strongest car lineups in decades, all gained market share in
their home market during the first half for the first time in 20
years.  “It is true that rival carmakers have come out with very
competitive models in the segment, and that competition in the
U.S. mid-size sedan segment is becoming fiercer,” Kodaira said.
“What we need to do is to come out with even more competitive
models.”  Kodaira declined to say whether Toyota will accelerate a
redesign for Camry.  ‘Important Model’  “The Camry is a very important model for Toyota, and it
must mean a lot for the model to maintain its market share and
position as the best-selling mid-size sedan,” said Kentaro Hayashi, an analyst at Tachibana Securities Co. in  Tokyo .
“Unless Toyota’s policy to not add too much incentives is
something that’s firmly secured, their incentives could still be
expanded, in order for them to maintain that top spot.”  Toyota may add safety features to make the Camry more
attractive, or bring forward a mid-cycle refresh, like Honda did
with its 2012 Civic sedan when it didn’t receive the coveted
recommended status from Consumer Reports, Hayashi said.  Toyota has said it expects to sell at least 400,000 of the
model this year. Camry sales fell 0.6 percent to 242,406 this
year through July. Toyota has forecast total U.S. vehicle sales
this year of more than 2.25 million. That would be the
automaker’s best year since 2007, when it sold 2.62 million
vehicles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  