-- Toyota’s Lexus Marque to Open Luxury Stores in Branding Push
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-08-21T04:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/toyota-s-lexus-marque-to-open-luxury-stores-in-branding-push.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus  unit
plans to open luxury stores offering consumers goods including
coffee cups glazed with volcanic ash and Italian leather bags to
help boost the premium marque’s brand image worldwide.  Japan’s largest carmaker will open its first  Intersect By
Lexus  store in Tokyo’s Aoyama district on Aug. 30, it said in a
statement today. Lexus will add similar outlets in New York and
Dubai, the Toyota City, Japan-based company said, without
specifying a timeframe.  Lexus’s marketing effort comes as the Japanese carmaker
aims to raise its global presence, after losing its luxury sales
crown in the U.S. to  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz for two straight years. Mercedes also leads
the Toyota unit by deliveries in the home market.  “Lexus’s successful debut in the U.S. hasn’t been
transplanted to its other markets, and its brand presence still
needs a lot of work compared to BMW and other luxury brands,”
said Takaki Nakanishi, founder of Nakanishi Research Institute.
“You can’t expect to gain sales from simply opening a cafe, but
it’s definitely better than not having one.”  In the U.S., its biggest market, Toyota’s Lexus sales have
gained 12 percent to 141,446 units this year, outperforming BMW
and Mercedes’s growth in the same period, according to  Woodcliff
Lake , New Jersey-based industry researcher Autodata Corp. About
half of Lexus’s sales comes from the country.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac marque is also targeting to
win upscale U.S. buyers and posted 30 percent unit sales growth
in the year through July, making it the fourth-largest brand by
volume, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Lexus Sales  In Japan, Lexus posted sales of 27,074 units through the
end of July this year. That  trailed  the 27,828 vehicles
delivered by Mercedes in the same period, according to the Japan
Automobile Importers Association.  The 331 square-meter (3,563 square-feet) store in Tokyo’s
Aoyama neighborhood, lined by boutiques of  Prada SpA (1913)  and  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , is designed by Masamichi
Katayama and will host a cafe, a garage, a shop and a library
lounge serving modern “Tokyo-themed foods,” the company said.
The store will provide consumers the Lexus experience “without
getting behind a steering wheel,” according to Toyota.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in  Tokyo  at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  