-- HP Profit Forecast Misses Some Estimates on PC Slump
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-08-21T22:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/hp-profit-forecast-misses-some-estimates-on-pc-slump.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  issued a
forecast for fiscal fourth-quarter profit that missed some
analysts’ estimates, and Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  
rescinded a projection for growth in fiscal 2014 as ebbing
demand for personal computers and lower business spending hamper
her turnaround efforts.  The second-biggest PC maker and largest printer supplier
also unveiled a shake-up of its top ranks, naming Chief
Operating Officer Bill Veghte as head of its enterprise
business, replacing  Dave Donatelli . Chief of Communications
Henry Gomez was promoted to chief marketing officer, replacing
Marty Homlish.  Earnings excluding some items will be 98 cents to $1.02 a
share for the period which ends in October, the company said in
a statement today. Analysts predicted $1.01 on  average ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. For the 2013 fiscal
year, earnings will be $3.53 to $3.57 a share, compared with the
company’s previous forecast of $3.50 to $3.60. The stock fell in
extended  trading .  Hewlett-Packard, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , is
suffering from an extended decline in PC demand and shifts to
mobile technologies that have sapped its sales, even as it’s
eliminating 29,000 jobs, delivering new products and paying down
 debt  to improve its competitive position. A fifth consecutive
quarter of declining global PC shipments crimped profit at the
company, which hasn’t expanded quickly enough in new devices
like smartphones and tablets.  In Retreat  In a conference call with analysts, CEO Whitman cited a
“weak enterprise spending environment,” with sales challenged
in Europe and  China . Pointing to difficulties in Hewlett-Packard’s enterprise and PC businesses, she said she now
projects “that total company year-over-year revenue growth in
fiscal 2014 is unlikely.” Whitman had previously said she
expects sales growth in the next fiscal year, which begins in
November.  Shares fell as much as 6.4 percent to $23.75 in late
trading after closing down 1.8 percent at $25.38 in  New York .
The stock has climbed 78 percent this year compared with a 15
percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  For the fiscal third quarter through July, sales fell 8
percent to $27.2 billion, compared with analysts’ average for
$27.3 billion. Earnings excluding some items were 86 cents a
share, compared with the average projection of 87 cents. Net
income was $1.39 billion, compared with analysts’ $1.19 billion
estimate.  Marking Time  “I view this as a marking-time quarter in the process of
them re-allocating their assets and shoring up the various
divisions,” said Chris Bertelsen, chief investment officer at
Global Financial Private Capital, in Sarasota,  Florida , which
bought Hewlett-Packard stock last year and pared its position
this year after a run-up in price.  Under Whitman’s executive changes today, Donatelli and
Homlish are being given new roles. Donatelli will focus on
identifying early-stage technologies, the company said in a
statement, while Homlish will take on a new position as chief
customer experience officer.  In a statement, Whitman said she was making the new
appointments as the “industry is undergoing profound change and
you need to rapidly respond with fresh ideas and bold
execution.”  Tense Times  Donatelli is leaving his position after prolonged tensions
with Whitman, said people with knowledge of the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.  In June, Whitman reorganized the PC and printer group,
replacing longtime head  Todd Bradley  with one of his deputies,
former Lenovo Group Ltd. executive Dion Weisler.  Whitman has also shaken up Hewlett-Packard’s board. The
company added three directors in July, including former
Microsoft Corp. software head Ray Ozzie, Jim Skinner, the former
CEO of McDonald’s Corp. and current chairman of Walgreen Co.,
and Dob Bennett, the ex-CEO of Liberty Media Corp. The changes
come after former chairman  Ray Lane  resigned his position in
April, and Hewlett-Packard is searching for a new chairman.  Today’s management changes come as sales and profit in
Hewlett-Packard’s enterprise computing group are sliding.
Revenue declined 9.4 percent to $6.79 billion, and earnings
before taxes dropped 20 percent to $1.03 billion. Sales in the
group that includes PCs fell 11 percent to  $7.7 billion.  Veghte is also responsible for Hewlett-Packard’s cloud-computing services, an area where it’s struggled to gain market
share, said  Bill Kreher , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co., who
has a sell rating on the shares.  Missing Out  Hewlett-Packard is missing out on three of the biggest
trends in technology: The rise of smartphones and tablets,
businesses’ move to online computing services from on-site
hardware and software, and the replacement of its stock-in-trade
photo printing with Web services from  Facebook Inc. (FB) , Google Inc.
and others, Kreher said.  “If HP could just convince the Street that they’re going
to participate in any one of these trends, it would lead to a
resurgence in revenue and profit growth,” said Kreher.  At the same time, PC shipments fell in the second quarter
for a fifth straight period, sliding 10.9 percent, market
researcher Gartner said in July. Consumers are increasingly
opting for tablets instead of traditional desktops and
notebooks, and businesses are holding onto old machines for
longer.  Dell Inc., the third-largest PC maker, is preparing to go
private in a $24.9 billion leveraged buyout by CEO  Michael Dell 
and his partner Silver Lake Management LLC. The deal would give
the company the flexibility to invest in becoming more
competitive in PCs, servers and other areas.  Industry Landscape  Hewlett-Packard, the No. 2 PC maker after Lenovo, has added
tablets running Windows and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system. It’s also delivering new printers, including the
Officejet Pro X that delivers laser-printer speed and quality
using cheaper liquid-ink technology.  In its enterprise-computing group, which includes servers,
storage and networking equipment, the new Moonshot server and
3Par data-storage systems are improving Hewlett-Packard’s
competitive position and boosting margins, Maynard Um, an
analyst at Wells Fargo Securities, said in an Aug. 13 note to
clients.  The company is facing competition in its data-center group
from Cisco Systems Inc., EMC Corp., International Business
Machines Corp. and Oracle Corp.  Hewlett-Packard plans to hold a meeting with financial
analysts in  San Jose , California, on Oct. 9, at which it’s
expected issue guidance for next year,  Abhey Lamba , an analyst
at Mizuho Securities USA, said in an Aug. 14 research note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  