-- Pakistan Telecom to Sustain Sales Growth on Broadband
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-08-21T19:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/pakistan-telecom-to-sustain-sales-growth-on-broadband.html
Pakistan Telecommunication Co., the
country’s biggest fixed-line phone-service provider, said
second-half sales growth will at least match the pace of the
previous six months as broadband demand increases.  “We will be doing equally well, if not better” in the
second half as the broadband business grows, Chief Executive
Officer Walid Irshaid said in an interview yesterday. Net income
rose 15 percent to 7.86 billion rupees ($76 million) in the six
months ended June, while sales climbed 17 percent to 65.6
billion rupees, according to calculations based on  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Pakistan Telecommunication, part-owned by Emirates
Telecommunications Corp., seeks to tap the increasing demand for
broadband connectivity, which contributes about 25 percent to
its total revenue. The carrier, which has about 1.8 million
broadband users and says it has almost 95 percent of the market
share, expects the double-digit annual pace of subscriber
additions to continue, Irshaid said.  “PTCL is on a growth path and our revenue is driven
basically, primarily from the broadband growth,” Irshaid said
at his office in Islamabad.  The carrier, which owns mobile service provider Ufone, is
conducting a due diligence of smaller competitor Warid Telecom
Ltd., Irshaid said, declining to elaborate. Warid Telecom is
controlled by the Abu Dhabi Group.  Pakistan Telecommunication had 40.8 billion rupees in cash
and short-term investments as of March 31, the  data  shows.  Acquisition Benefits  Ufone also competes with Pakistan Mobile Communications
Ltd.’s Mobilink, Telenor ASA’s local subsidiary and the unit of
China Mobile Ltd.  “I foresee consolidation as a natural phenomenon,” said
Irshaid. “A natural thing to happen to improve and sustain the
existing operations.”  Shares of Pakistan Telecommunication fell 2.5 percent to
25.64 rupees in Karachi yesterday. They have surged 48 percent
this year, compared with the 36 percent advance in the benchmark
Karachi Stock Exchange 100  Index. (KSE100)   Pakistan Telecommunication plans to bid for licenses for
the third-generation mobile-phone network when the government
seeks offers in an auction, Irshaid said. He expects the
government to seek bids as early as end of this year.  Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif , who won an election in May,
has increased tax levies on the telecommunications industry and
agreed on a loan with the  International Monetary Fund  as its
reserves plunged and the nation’s currency fell to a record low.
Sharif is aiming for 4.4 percent economic expansion in the
fiscal year that started July 1, up from an estimated 3.6
percent in the 12 months ended June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  