-- Pakistan Says Soldier Killed by Indian Troops as Violence Builds
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-08-21T10:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/pakistan-says-soldier-killed-by-indian-troops-as-violence-builds.html
The Pakistani army said an officer
was killed by Indian troops as growing violence across a
disputed border threatens to jeopardize new efforts to normalize
relations between the nuclear-armed countries.  A Pakistani Army captain was killed near Skardu in the
disputed Kashmir region and another soldier seriously wounded,
said a Pakistani military official, who asked not be identified
because he is not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.
Indian troops began firing at 11:15 p.m. last night and the two
sides exchanged fire for three hours, the official said.  India and  Pakistan  have been  trading  fire and counter
accusations since the deaths of five Indian soldiers on the
Kashmir border earlier this month. Indian Defense Minister A.K.
Antony told parliament yesterday that Pakistani troops carried
out that attack. Pakistan has denied involvement and accused
India of breaking their cease-fire agreement.  The nuclear-armed neighbors have fought two of their three
wars since 1947 over the Kashmir, which is divided between the
the countries and claimed by both. Violence peaked after an
anti-India insurgency erupted in 1989, with India accusing
Pakistan of aiding guerrillas groups in their attacks. Pakistan
rejects the charges. Violence has ebbed in recent years.  Sitanshu Kar, spokesman for the Indian Defense Ministry,
referred calls to the army today. Messages left with the army
spokesman in New Delhi were not immediately returned.  Ready to Respond  Defense Minister Antony said yesterday that the government
was ready to respond if Pakistan continued with attacks. He
called for Pakistan to take action against its own troops that
he accused of carrying out this month’s attack and one in
January when one of three soldiers killed was beheaded.  “Our restraint should not be taken for granted,” Antony
told parliament. “This incident will have consequences on our
behavior.”  In the first seven months of this year, there have been 57
cease-fire violations along the border, 80 percent more than in
the same period last year, Antony said in parliament Aug. 8.
 India  had successfully foiled 17 infiltration attempts this year
and killed 19 militants in the last two months, Antony said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  