-- TPG Capital Is Said to Seek $2.5 Billion for Credit Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-08-21T21:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/tpg-capital-is-said-to-seek-2-5-billion-for-credit-fund.html
TPG Capital, the private-equity firm
started by  David Bonderman  and  Jim Coulter , plans to seek about
$2.5 billion for its next global credit-focused fund, according
to two people familiar with the matter.  TPG Opportunities Partners III LP, which is preparing to
start formally marketing, plans to seek the about the same
amount as the predecessor vehicle raised last year, said one of
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public. The firm hasn’t yet set an official
target on the new fund.  TPG, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , has been pursuing deals
outside of the firm’s main buyout funds. In 2012, the firm
raised $2 billion for its latest growth-equity fund and started
marketing its fourth biotechnology vehicle.  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman at Owen Blicksilver Public
Relations Inc., declined to comment on behalf of TPG.  The new fund will be run by TPG’s credit arm, known as TPG
Opportunities Partners, or TOP, which makes special-situations
or distressed investments. Under TOP’s strategy, special
situations may involve companies that are poorly managed, lack
access to capital or face structural changes in an industry,
according to a marketing document. The firm also seeks to buy
loan portfolios directly from banks at deep discounts.  TOP is led by Alan Waxman, a former co-head of the Americas
Special Situations Group at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  ASG Software  TPG’s next fund will have a similar strategy to the prior
vehicle, TPG Opportunities Partners II LP. Fund II, among other
things, provides capital to companies facing distress or
dislocation and purchases commercial and residential
nonperforming loan portfolios or other distressed assets from
banks at steep discounts, according to the document.  TOP in December provided a $250 million loan facility to
ASG Software Solutions, a Naples, Florida-based provider of
information-technology and business-software services. Other
past investments include Palms Casino Resort, Clear Channel
Communications Inc., CIT Group Inc. and Alinta Energy Ltd.  The firm’s predecessor fund is generating a multiple of 1.2
times invested capital, one of the people familiar said.  TPG and Waxman formed TOP in 2009 to take advantage of
liquid and illiquid credit dislocations and other special
situations across various economic cycles, according to the
memorandum. TOP started investing that May, primarily out of the
2008 flagship fund TPG Partners VI LP and TPG Financial Partners
LP. Founded in 1992, TPG manages $56.7 billion in capital,
according to the firm’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Rossa at 
 jrossa@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  