-- MPHJ Technology, Apple, Richemont: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-08-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/mphj-technology-apple-richemont-intellectual-property.html
A patent-licensing company sued by
 Vermont  officials for sending threatening letters has agreed not
to target businesses in  Minnesota , state Attorney General Lori
Swanson said.  MPHJ Technology Investments LLC, which is registered in
Wilmington,  Delaware , claims that anyone who scans documents to
be e-mailed infringes its patents for the technology. It has
sent thousands of letters nationwide to companies and nonprofit
organizations demanding as much as $1,200 per employee to avoid
patent-infringement lawsuits.  The settlement limiting the firm’s ability to contact
Minnesota residents and businesses is believed to be the first
of its kind against a company derided as a “troll” for its
licensing tactics, the state said yesterday. Vermont has sued
the company under state consumer protection laws.  Retailers have reported a rise in letters demanding
compensation for using common technology such as Wi-Fi
connections to the Internet, tracking customer shipments and
adding maps to website.  President  Barack Obama  has backed legislative proposals to
curb lawsuits against users of technology and the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission is considering a broad inquiry into whether the
tactics hamper innovation and competition.  To send any further letters to Minnesota businesses, MPHJ
must give the attorney general’s office 60 days’ notice and
obtain its consent, according to the agreement.  “They can’t do what they’ve been doing,” said Ben
Wogsland, a spokesman for the attorney general’s Office.
“They’re going to have a steep, steep row to hoe to convince
Attorney General Swanson they have something legitimate here.”  The agreement doesn’t restrict the company’s ability to
file patent-infringement suits, nor does it involve any
allegations of wrongdoing, MPHJ said in an e-mailed statement.  “MPHJ welcomes this review process, as the questions that
have been raised by the Minnesota AG went to the form of MPHJ’s
licensing and infringement inquiry letters, not the substance,
and MPHJ prefers any such immaterial issues to be resolved in
advance, so that it can focus on its lawful licensing activity
without further interference,” according to the statement.  Apple Gets Patent on Touch Screen Gesture-Capture Technology  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPhone and the IPad, received a
patent on a technology that would capture the gestures of a user
whose hands are hovering above a touch screen.  Patent 8,514,221 was issued yesterday, according to the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  According to the patent, a two-dimensional object is
presented in the user interface. The technology then detects
movement in proximity to the screen’s surface, which will then
generate a three-dimensional object that can be manipulated by
the user through gestures.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , said the technology
would be useful for computer-assisted design, providing a tool
for generating and manipulating a three-dimensional object.
Features of this interface “allow a user to quickly and
intuitively generate, modify, and manipulate 3D objects and
virtual 3D environments,” according to the patent.  Apple applied for the patent in July 2012 with assistance
from Philadelphia’s Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  EA Asks Appeals Court to Delay Ruling on College Athletes’ Suit  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  urged a federal appeals court in
California to put on hold a ruling that bars a First Amendment
defense to lawsuits accusing the company of profiting from using
likenesses of college athletes.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Philadelphia ruled the
opposite in a similar case and said the company was
constitutionally protected from claims by college athletes who
allege EA violated their rights by using their likenesses in
video games, company lawyers said in an Aug. 19 filing.  Electronic Arts intends to ask the U.S. Supreme Court to
review both rulings and asked that the July 31 decision by the
San Francisco-based court, which takes effect Aug. 21, be put on
hold for 90 days to allow the company to petition the high
court, said Kelli Sager, an EA attorney, in the filing.  In a 2-1 ruling in a case brought in 2009 by former  Arizona 
State University quarterback Sam Keller, the San Francisco-based
court said EA wasn’t protected against Keller’s suit because its
“NCAA Football” games, which use athletes’ height, weight,
hair color and skin tone, though not their names, “literally
creates Keller in the very setting in which he has achieved
renown.”  Former student basketball and football players allege that
Electronic Arts and the NCAA, the governing body of most U.S.
intercollegiate sports, conspired to use their likenesses in
video games without their permission and without paying them,
violating antitrust law and their rights of publicity.  Robert Carey, an attorney representing Keller, said he
opposes EA’s request. Once the ruling takes effect, Keller’s
lawyers will begin requesting documents from EA to prepare for
trial, he said by phone.  “We’ve been waiting a long, long time to proceed with the
case,” Carey said.  The case is Keller v. Electronic Arts, 10-15387,  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ).  Richemont’s Montblanc-Simplo Sues 10 Websites for Infringement  Richemont International SA’s Montblanc-Simplo unit, maker
of luxury fountain pens that sell for as much as  $1,150 , sued 10
websites claim they infringe its trademarks.  The websites were registered by a resident of Nanjing,
 China , the Hamburg, Germany-based company said in the complaint
filed Aug. 16 in federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia .  The domain names listed in the complaint all contain
“montblanc” or “montblancpen,” and were so named “in a bad
faith attempt to profit off of the fame, reputation and
goodwill” of the Montblanc brand, the company said.  The accused websites aren’t used to sell genuine Montblanc
products, according to court papers. Instead, Montblanc claims
they are offering for sale “inferior products” that confuse
consumers and tarnish the name of the company.  The company said that the websites’ operators haven’t
responded to infringement notices or cease-and-desist letters
sent to the contact information provided by the Internet domain
registrar, as well as to the contact information identified on
the various websites.  It asked the court to transfer the offending domain names
to London-based Richemont and seeks an award of attorney fees.  The case is Montblanc-Simplo GmbH v.
Achatstyleomontblanc.com, 1:13-cv-01013, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  NCS Pearson Victory in Copyright Case Over Test Upheld  NCS Pearson Inc., a provider of educational and testing
software, properly defeated a physical therapist’s copyright
claim over a psychological test, an appeals court ruled.  The U.S. Appeals Court in Denver on Aug. 19 affirmed a
lower court’s ruling that Judith Copeland Cooper brought her
copyright ownership claims too late.  The appeals court said that it was undisputed that Cooper
became aware in 1996 that she wasn’t receiving royalties for the
test, putting her on notice of the basis for a copyright co-ownership claim.  The statute of limitations for her to make her claim
expired by 1999 at the latest, the appeals court said. Cooper
sued Bloomington, Minnesota-based NCS Pearson in federal court
in Denver in 2010.  The case is Cooper v. NCS Pearson Inc., 12-01096, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit. The lower court case is
Cooper v. NCS Pearson Inc., 10-cv-02840, U.S. District Court,
District of  Colorado  (Denver).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  