-- Plunging Rupiah Spurs Yudhoyono Into Action With Policy Plans
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   A g u s   S u h a n a
-- 2013-08-21T10:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/plunging-rupiah-spurs-yudhoyono-into-action-with-policy-plans.html
Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono will announce measures on Friday to deal with a
slowing economy and a currency that’s fallen to a four-year low.  The government will draft a package of policies, and the
rupiah’s plunge is the main problem to be tackled, Yudhoyono
told reporters in Jakarta today. It will be difficult to reach a
target of 6.3 percent expansion by relying on investment as
exports decline, he said.  The move comes after Yudhoyono, due to hand over power in
elections next year, gave a favorable assessment of his economic
record in two speeches on Aug. 16. Since then, central bank data
showed the current-account deficit widened to a record in the
second quarter, the rupiah fell 3.6 percent and the Jakarta
Composite index of shares slid 7.7 percent this week. Growth has
slowed for the last four quarters, dipping below 6 percent in
the three months through June for the first time since 2010.  “ Indonesia  is too focused on the stock market and late to
give a response, as we already saw that GDP growth was slowing
down since last year and bond yields increased since May,” said
Siswa Rizali, head of investment at PT AAA Asset Management in
Jakarta.  The rupiah fell 0.84 percent to 10,775 per dollar by 5:07
p.m. today, the lowest since April 2009, prices from local banks
show. The yield on the nation’s bonds due May 2023 slipped two
basis point to 8.47 percent after reaching 8.54 percent earlier,
the highest since March 2011, prices from the Inter Dealer
Market Association show.  Bank Indonesia  Yudhoyono has also nominated two outside candidates for the
number two position at the central bank, where policy makers
held off from raising  interest rates  at a Aug. 15 meeting
because of slowing growth. Inflation accelerated to the highest
in more than four years in July and the currency slid.  “The rupiah is what I see as the main issue that we need
to find a solution for,” Yudhoyono said today, without giving
details of the policy plans.  Mirza Adityaswara, chairman of Lembaga Penjamin Simpanan,
which guarantees deposits at banks in Indonesia, is a candidate
for  Bank Indonesia ’s senior deputy governor post, Sohibul Iman,
the deputy speaker in parliament, said by telephone today.  PT
Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN) ’s chief economist  Anton Gunawan  is the
other candidate, Harry Azhar Azis, from the parliamentary
commission that overseas financial affairs, said by telephone
today. The commission will test the two candidates, Azis said.  “This is interesting as the President offered two names
from outside the central bank,” said Azis. “I thought the
President will submit one name from inside BI. Both of them have
good expertise as economists.”  The nominations come after Yudhoyono unexpectedly moved his
former finance minister  Agus Martowardojo  into the top seat at
Bank Indonesia in May. Having left its benchmark rate at a
record low to spur growth since February 2012, Bank Indonesia
then lifted the rate by a total of 75 basis points in June and
July and eased its grip on the currency to allow it to weaken.  The government needs to take longer-term reforms rather
than quick-fix solutions to address investor concerns, AAA Asset
Management’s Rizali said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Agus Suhana in Jakarta at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  