-- Potash Rift Seen Lasting as Asia Sales Said to Rile Uralkali
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 2013-08-22T16:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/potash-rift-seen-enduring-after-asia-sales-said-to-rile-uralkali.html
A dispute between the former Soviet
Union’s two largest potash producers shows little sign of being
resolved quickly as predictions that the commodity’s price will
plunge roil the $20 billion market.  A pact between Belarus’s Belaruskali and  OAO Uralkali (URKA)  in
Russia helped to buttress prices for eight years in the global
market for potash, a vital nutrient for corn and soybeans. That
partnership fell apart at the end of July when Uralkali accused
the other producer of undermining their sales accord.  The relationship, under strain all year, finally frayed
over how both companies courted foreign buyers. Belarus
President Aleksandr Lukashenko grew dissatisfied with being the
junior half of the partnership and the limits placed on output
at state-owned Belaruskali, according to people familiar with
the situation.  Uralkali, led by Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner, was angered by Belaruskali selling to Asia outside
their joint venture, even as both sides were in talks aimed at
ending the conflict, said the people, who asked not to be named
because they weren’t authorized to speak.  So far neither side has shown willingness to patch up their
differences since the split announced July 30 sent shares of
potash producers tumbling as much as 24 percent from Moscow to
Tel Aviv to Toronto.  “We don’t expect the two companies to be back working
together very soon,” said Konstantin Yuminov, an analyst at
Raiffeisen Bank in Moscow. “Uralkali is ready for talks, but
only on terms that will suit it.”  Supply Contracts  Belaruskali sees the potash market reviving next month and
won’t renew cooperation with Uralkali unless the Russian
producer changes its strategy or ownership, Belaruskali CEO
Valery Kirienko told reporters Aug. 19 in Soligorsk,  Belarus .
Uralkali’s move was unilateral and unexpected, Belaruskali said
the same day in a  statement .  Potash is a salt containing potassium that was deposited by
ancient seas. The commodity, which helps crops resist drought,
is typically found underground between rock strata. About 80
percent of global reserves are located in just four countries:
 Canada , Russia, Belarus and  Germany .  Despite the importance of potash in agriculture and the
size of the market -- sales were a record 57 million tons in
2011 -- the commodity isn’t traded on any exchange. Until last
month, two groups of companies controlled about two-thirds of
the world’s production capacity, negotiating sales contracts,
sometimes with entire countries, at a fixed price that would
then become the global benchmark for months.  Price Forecast  One of those groups was Belarusian Potash Co., or BPC, the
export sales joint venture between Belaruskali and Uralkali that
split amid acrimony. The other group,  Canpotex Ltd. , is a
similar venture between the three biggest North American
producers.  The coordination of exports isn’t a new feature of the
potash market. A cartel of German producers endured for most of
the first half of the 20th Century. Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Canpotex, which started operating in 1972 to coordinate
sales of potash mined in the Canadian province, is exempt under
the country’s antitrust laws because it doesn’t sell to domestic
farmers.  Like Canpotex, BPC’s members adjusted output to support
prices. Having quit the venture, Uralkali plans to produce at
full capacity to gain a greater market share.  Production Curbs  Uralkali, which says prices may fall to less than $300 a
ton from about $400 now because of the move, is the industry’s
lowest-cost producer and may be best-placed to survive the
slump.  K+S AG (SDF)  of Germany is among producers with mines that may
barely break even with potash at less than $300, according to
Green Markets, an information provider that’s a unit of
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  The roots of the discord within BPC can be traced back to
2011, when Uralkali completed its $7.8 billion takeover of
Russian rival OAO Silvinit, said Oleg Andreev, managing director
at Minsk-based consultant EnterInvest.  The deal enabled Uralkali to overtake Belaruskali in terms
of sales volume, making it the world’s largest potash producer.
It also accounted for most of the tonnage sold by BPC.  Lukashenko became unhappy with this outcome and the way
that Belaruskali had to moderate its output when prices dropped,
the people familiar with the situation said.  Both companies idled capacity last year as the market
weakened. Uralkali had 30 percent of its capacity offline, while
Belaruskali had 23 percent, according to a presentation from the
Russian producer.  U.S. Sanctions  “Lukashenko didn’t like this price-over-volume strategy at
all and was seeking a higher utilization rate for Belaruskali,”
said Elena Sakhnova, an analyst at VTB Capital in Moscow.  The Belarus leader also disliked that Uralkali regularly
sold potash through its own trading unit, the people said.
According to the joint-venture agreement with Belaruskali,
Uralkali could ship potash outside BPC for direct sales to  China 
by rail.  Spokesmen for the Belarus government, Belaruskali,
Belneftekhim -- the state energy company that manages
Belaruskali -- Lukashenko and billionaire Suleiman Kerimov,
Uralkali’s largest shareholder, declined to comment on relations
between the potash producers.  One reason Uralkali was allowed to circumvent BPC was so
that it could get loans against its exports. Uralkali was also
using its trading unit because U.S. sanctions on Belarus meant
BPC couldn’t sell in America.  China Contract  Uralkali has shipped 69 percent of its exports via its
trading unit so far this year, according to Marina Kostiuchenko,
a spokeswoman for Belneftekhim. Uralkali declined to comment on
the sales.  BPC received a setback on Dec. 31 when North America’s
Canpotex beat it to sign the first supply contract with China in
nine months. Canpotex agreed to sell 1 million tons at $400 a
ton, about 15 percent less than the previous price benchmark.  “Canpotex didn’t like Uralkali boosting potash sales to
China by rail and offered China a price cut, which BPC didn’t
expect,” Raiffeisen’s Yuminov said.  While BPC followed in January with a Chinese pact at the
same price and volume, it had lost market share to Canpotex,
Sakhnova said.  The breakdown of BPC gathered pace in January. That’s when
Belaruskali also started selling potash independently of the
venture, Kostiuchenko said. Belaruskali has sold 45,000 tons
outside of BPC this year, or less than 2 percent of its exports,
she said.  Lukashenko Pressure  Lukashenko “didn’t intend to break up the venture, he was
just seeking to put some pressure on Uralkali,” said Yulia Bushueva, managing director at Arbat Capital in Moscow.  Still, the consignments were sufficient to undermine the
partnership between the producers, according to Uralkali.  For Lukashenko, who has governed without interruption for
19 years, potash has huge strategic importance. It’s one of the
most vital industries in Belarus, where the average gross
domestic product for each of its 9.5 million inhabitants is
about half that of  Russia , according to World Bank  data .
Belaruskali accounts for almost 20 percent of the country’s
budget.  Belarus was dubbed Europe’s last dictatorship by former
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice because of its human-rights record and Lukashenko’s grip on power. The 58-year-old
president is known to his countrymen by the nickname “bat’ka,”
meaning father.  “Where Belarus is involved, everything is a one-man
show,” Arbat’s Bushueva said. “Lukashenko is highly ambitious
and with time he became less happy” with BPC.  Russian Relations  BPC was created in 2005 after Lukashenko called for the
elimination of the “crooks” he said were acting as
intermediaries in the potash trade, the president’s press
service reported in May.  He has walked a fine line between pledging loyalty to
Russia while trying to limit the economic influence of Belarus’s
much larger neighbor. Relations with Russian President Vladimir
Putin have been strained at times, including in January 2011,
when Russian crude oil imports to Belarus were briefly cut off
after the countries failed to agree on price.  Despite this turbulent history, the dispute over potash
wasn’t driven by politics, Uralkali CEO Baumgertner said in a
July 31 interview. Nor did Uralkali investor Kerimov ask Putin
to intervene, the people familiar with the situation said.
Dmitry Peskov, a Putin spokesman, declined to comment on
Uralkali.  Belarus Talks  Kerimov, 47, has a 22 percent stake in Uralkali worth about
$3 billion. He built his fortune by investing in various
industries including real estate and banking. Kerimov owns
soccer club Anzhi Makhachkala in his native Dagestan and 40
percent of  Polyus Gold International Ltd. (PGIL) , Russia’s largest gold
producer. In 2006, he was left in a medically induced coma and
with burns covering 70 percent of his body after crashing his
Swiss lawyer’s black Ferrari Enzo on the Promenade des Anglais
in Nice on the French Riviera.  To rescue the faltering relationship with Belarus, Kerimov
reached out to Lukashenko, visiting him in Belarus at least
twice in 12 months, the people said. He appeared to have some
success in May, when both sides agreed to a commission created
by Lukashenko that would discuss the future of BPC. The
president announced the appointment of his son Viktor and local
KGB chief Valeriy Vakulchik to ensure the impartiality of the
new body.  Tipping Point  “I am a supporter of one powerful trading channel, in
which there will be a parity of interests,” Lukashenko said at
the time.  But even after the commission was created, Belaruskali
still sold potash outside of BPC, according to the people
familiar with the matter. Uralkali also was displeased by
Lukashenko’s state visit to China in mid-July and Belaruskali’s
meetings with  Brazil  and  India  to discuss potash supplies, the
people said. Brazil is the second-largest potash user and India
is the fourth-biggest, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The tipping point for Uralkali came July 25 when Lukashenko
appointed Elena Kudriavets as director general of BPC without
consulting the Russian producer or informing it of the decision,
the people said.  Uralkali’s board approved the split from BPC several days
later. Its July 30 announcement that it would sell freely in the
market and produce at full capacity sent shares of potash
producers crashing globally as investors speculated the price of
the commodity would collapse.  Share Sales  Belaruskali said Aug. 19 that Uralkali’s “regretful
decision” came as a surprise as both producers had reached a
“compromise agreement” over BPC in June.  “The news was an absolute shock,” Arbat’s Bushueva said.
“We all knew that there were some issues within the cartel, but
nobody expected that the divorce would come so quickly.”  Some investors in Uralkali got out before its shares
plunged 19 percent on July 30. Four days previously, Uralkali
said billionaire  Alexander Nesis  had sold his 5.1 percent stake
in the Berezniki-based company. And two weeks earlier, Uralkali
completed a $1.3 billion buyback of shares from Zelimkhan Mutsoev.  Russia’s Financial Markets Service said Aug. 13 it asked
the Moscow Exchange for information on trading in the shares.
Nesis had an existing plan to sell his Uralkali stock, said
Vladislav Vershinin, his spokesman. Uralkali said Mutsoev was
reorganizing his finances to comply with the requirements of
being a Russian member of parliament.  Uralkali advanced 2.8 percent to $24.40 in London trading
today. It’s  down  36 percent this year.  Canpotex Future?  The BPC split also sparked speculation that Canpotex will
follow suit and unravel. Competition from Uralkali will put
pressure on the group, Charles Neivert, an analyst at Cowen
Securities LLC in New York, said July 30.  The three big North American producers that control
Canpotex -- Canada’s Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. and
 Agrium Inc. (AGU) , and Mosaic Co. of the U.S. -- have said they expect
no change in how they will export.  Potash Corp. CEO Bill Doyle said Belaruskali and Uralkali
may eventually resolve their differences. The dispute won’t last
because it’s too destructive and “logic tends to prevail,” he
said Aug. 7, emphasizing that global potash demand will continue
to grow, helping all producers.  Dvorkovich Talks  Kerimov and Baumgertner met in early August to talk about
potash with Russia’s Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  and
Sergei Roumas, chairman of Belarusian Bank of Development and
Reconstruction, according to the people familiar with the
situation. Roumas also leads the special potash commission that
Lukashenko created. Nothing was decided at the meeting and there
was no agreement on future discussions, the people said.  Spokesmen for Dvorkovich, Belaruskali and Roumas’s bank
declined to comment on the talks.  For now, the split looks like it could be permanent. BPC’s
Russian staff are moving out of the venture’s office in Minsk,
the Belarus capital, two people with the knowledge of the
situation said. Uralkali is running out of space to accommodate
them in its Moscow office, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  