-- Pound Will Fall Versus Euro as U.K. Optimism Overdone, BNP Says
-- B y   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-08-21T15:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/pound-will-fall-versus-euro-as-u-k-optimism-overdone-bnp-says.html
Investors should bet the pound will
weaken against the euro as excessive optimism about the U.K.
economy has pushed the U.K. currency above its fundamentals,
according to  BNP Paribas SA. (BNP)   The pound will weaken to 87.10 pence per euro within two
weeks as markets price in short-term market conditions,
particularly interest-rate differentials, strategists at the
company said. The pound rose to a six-week high against the euro
on Aug. 15 after U.K.  retail sales  increased more than
economists forecast, spurring bets that Bank of England governor
Mark Carney will raise interest rates sooner rather than later.  “Investors have become too bullish on the pound,” Michael Sneyd, a currency strategist at BNP Paribas in London, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “We should see a catch-up
in euro-sterling as the better growth data from the euro zone
gets priced into the currency pair and Mark Carney reaffirms a
dovish rhetoric to bring down U.K. yields.”  The pound appreciated 0.5 percent to 85.25 pence per euro
at 4:46 p.m.  London  time after advancing to 85.05 pence on Aug.
15, the strongest level since July 3.  U.K. economic growth accelerated in the second quarter,
jobless claims fell more in July as economists predicted and
gauges of activity in construction, manufacturing and services
all improved last month. U.K.  government bonds  have slumped in
the past four months, with 10-year yields climbing to 2.70
percent from 1.69 percent at the end of April.  “The rally in sterling looks too aggressive relative to
the rise in U.K. yields,” Sneyd said. “Investors have over-interpreted the implications the data will have on monetary
policy.”  BNP Paribas predicts the pound will still strengthen to 84
pence per euro toward the middle of next year as the U.K.
economy outperforms the euro area’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  