-- Protesters Clash at Berlin Asylum as Political Tensions Erupt
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-08-21T12:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/protesters-clash-at-berlin-asylum-as-political-tensions-erupt.html
Protests by pro- and anti-immigrant
groups at a refugee camp in Berlin’s east turned violent last
night, leaving four police officers injured as political and
racial hostility erupted a month before Germans go to the polls.  Tensions flared when about 400 supporters of the shelter
that has taken in at least 42 people from countries including
Syria and  Afghanistan  since Aug. 19 sought to quash a rally by
about 30 members of the far-right “Pro Deutschland” group and
the National Democratic Party outside the camp in an old school
in the Hellersdorf district, police  said . “Pro Deutschland” is
holding five demonstrations at different locations in the German
capital today, said Guido Busch, a police spokesman.  About 250 officers deployed at the rallies detained 25
people as pro-refugee demonstrators threw eggs, wooden planks
and bottles. The clashes came as  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
visited the former concentration camp in the Bavarian town of
Dachau, one of the first concentration camps built by the the
Nazis in 1933, where she spoke out against “any form of anti-semitism, racism and right-wing extremism.”  While protests today have so far been peaceful, “we have
to expect incidents later in the day,” Busch said by mobile
phone from the scene, as loud cheers and whistling could be
heard in the background.  A report on public broadcaster ARD showed refugees looking
out of the windows of the communist-era building and an anti-immigrant protester yelling: “We are the people, and not you.”
One man was detained by police after making a Hitler salute, ARD
said in the report from Aug. 19.  The stiff-armed Nazi salute is banned under German law.  Five asylum-seekers have left the camp and another family
has asked to be relocated, Berliner Zeitung reported yesterday.  “The people are scared,” Martina Mauer of the
 Fluechtlingsrat Berlin e.V.  group, which seeks to protect the
rights of refugees, was cited as saying by the newspaper.  The camp will eventually house 200 people fleeing from
danger zones, said Silvia Kostner, spokeswoman for Landesamt für
Gesundheit und Soziales Berlin. Another building in the complex
will take in 200 more in the spring of 2014, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  