-- Bond Trading Hampered as Buyers Retreat to Crowded Exits
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-08-21T15:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/trading-hampered-as-buyers-flee-to-crowded-exits-credit-markets.html
The lowest volumes for U.S.
corporate-bond trading since 2008 are underscoring the potential
for market disruptions as regulations prompt dealers to retreat.  August  trading volumes  have plummeted to a daily average of
$14.1 billion, down 9 percent from the corresponding period last
year, even as the amount of company debt outstanding has soared
by 12 percent. Bonds have lost 5 percent since the end of April
on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index, the
worst stretch since the credit crisis as the  Federal Reserve 
considers curtailing its record stimulus.  Exiting from fixed-income securities is getting tougher as
the world’s biggest bond dealers respond to new capital
standards, reducing inventories of the debt by 76 percent since
the peak in 2007. Even as lenders from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
to UBS AG create electronic-trading platforms, investors are
failing to find relief from waning liquidity, according to a
July  report  by the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee.  “You’ve got to be very wary of getting into a crowded
position,” Stephen Antczak, the head of U.S. credit strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview. “If
everybody has the same mandate, who’s going to take the other
side of the trade? If far more guys are mark-to-market sensitive
than they used to be and you overlay the lack of liquidity, that
kind of exacerbates the problem.”  Basel Committee  Investors are souring on the debt after pouring almost $950
billion into corporate-bond mutual and exchange-traded funds in
the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008,
when the Fed started expanding its balance sheet to suppress
borrowing costs, Citigroup data show.  The unprecedented growth of funds that publish market
prices of their assets daily has changed the dynamic of credit
markets, with investors more inclined to redeem funds as
sentiment deteriorates, Antczak said. The funds now account for
more than 40 percent of the debt’s owners from about 25 percent
in 2007, Citigroup data show.  While the biggest banks used to provide a cushion from
plunging debt values, they’re less willing to fill that role
after the 27-country  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
raised minimum capital standards, boosting the cost of owning
riskier assets.  Default Swaps  “You can see the price swings being correlated to flows,
with inflows and outflows showing up real time in performance,”
said Jeff Meli, co-head of fixed-income, currencies and
commodities research at Barclays Plc in New York. “The dealer
community buffered against those swings at one point and they
aren’t there anymore.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. rose, with the Markit
CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use
to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increasing 1.2 basis points to a mid-price of 83.4 basis points
as of 11:35 a.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, climbed 0.13 basis point to 18.88 basis
points as of 11:36 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of Petroleo Brasileiro SA are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 4.2 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more as of 11:38 a.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Daily trading volumes in  high-yield bonds  have decreased to
$4.3 billion on average this month through Aug. 19, compared
with $5 billion in the corresponding period in 2012, Trace data
show.  Investment-grade (NTMBIV)  volumes fell to $9.8 billion from $10.5
billion.  The decline marks a reversal from the first five months of
this year, when average trading volumes for debt of corporate
borrowers from the riskiest to the most creditworthy of $19.4
billion were 8 percent higher than last year’s pace.  Fund Outflows  While market turnover has, if anything, increased since the
financial crisis, “liquidity is about much more than turnover”
and has the “tendency to disappear abruptly when really
needed,” according to a presentation to the Treasury Borrowing
Advisory Committee that sought to assess liquidity in the fixed-income market.  Buyers pulled $7.4 billion from investment-grade funds in
July, Bank of America Corp. data show, after Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said the central bank could start curtailing the
current pace of debt buying if growth is in line with central
bank estimates. The Fed will likely reduce the central bank’s
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases next month, according to
65 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  A 2.8 percent loss this year on dollar-denominated
corporate debt compares with a 7.1 percent gain in the
corresponding period last year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  $5.3 Trillion  Corporate borrowers racing to lock in borrowing costs that
averaged 4.3 percent as of Aug. 19, compared with a 10-year
average of 5.82 percent, have sold $975 billion of the debt this
year, expanding the size of the market to $5.3 trillion,
according to Bloomberg and Bank of America data.  BlackRock Inc.’s $17.8 billion  investment-grade bond ETF 
has eliminated 7.3 million shares this month, equal to about
$825.6 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Its $14.6
billion  high-yield ETF  reported an outflow of 3.6 million of
shares on Aug. 19, the biggest daily withdrawal on record.  “We expect outflows to accelerate,” Bank of America
credit strategists led by Hans Mikkelsen in New York wrote in an
Aug. 19 report. “With poor summer liquidity and hedging needs
we retain our hedge against a disorderly rotation with wider
credit spreads.”  Wall Street dealers traditionally act as middlemen by
warehousing bonds until customers seek to buy them. That model
is changing as U.S. and international rules meant to make the
banking system safer have prompted dealers to cut the amount of
debt they hold.  Risk Concentration  The 21 primary dealers that do business directly with the
Fed reduced their balance sheets to $56 billion at the end of
March from $235 billion in October 2007, New York Fed data show.
They were holding $7.9 billion of investment-grade bonds as of
Aug. 7,  Fed data shows , about 0.2 percent of the market for the
dollar-denominated notes.  That’s led to a concentration of credit risk in funds that
take bullish positions on corporate debt, leading to more of a
one-sided market than in the past, Citigroup credit strategists
led by Antczak wrote in a report this month.  Goldman Sachs spent a year developing an electronic trading
system for corporate bonds called GSessions that started
operating in 2012. UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, has directed
more debt trading onto its Price Improvement Network, which lets
customers directly post prices with a so-called order-book model
where bids and offers are shown before the trade.  While there’s been “massive growth” in electronic price
inquiries, much of it is small in size, leading to little extra
depth in trading, according to the Treasury Borrowing Advisory
Committee report.  “Liquidity has deteriorated overall,” Barclays’ Meli
said. “Transaction costs remain high. In periods of low
liquidity, the cost of transaction goes up more than we used to
see in similar periods before 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  