-- Responding to the Massacre in Syria
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-21T21:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/responding-to-the-massacre-in-syria.html
It may take awhile to determine
whether, as the opposition claims, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad used chemical weapons to slaughter more than 1,000 of his
citizens. If he has, this brazen atrocity not only changes the
U.S. calculus in the region but also requires a clear response
from the civilized world.  Words and resolutions would not do for a massacre of this
scale. Ideally the  United Nations Security Council  would
sanction limited international military action to punish and
deter Assad. If not, the U.S. should assemble the broadest
possible international coalition to deliver a message, with
force if necessary, to the regime.  The immediate priority is to get UN inspectors, already in
Damascus to investigate previous allegations of chemical weapons
use, to the site in nearby Ghouta. Getting access for inspectors
may be difficult. Assad clearly doesn’t give a hoot what the
rest of the world thinks, so the U.S. and its allies should try
to persuade his backers, especially  Russia , to apply pressure.
President  Vladimir Putin  surely wouldn’t want to be stuck
defending this atrocity and may need to be pressured publicly to
cooperate (there seems to be little to lose in the U.S.-Russia
relationship at the moment). In addition, members of the
Security Council should be aware that chemical weapons use on
this scale would set a precedent that none would want to endorse
by default.  The reality remains, though, that the U.S. and its allies
may (as in the past) have to make their own determinations of
what weapons were used. If so, the administration should prepare
for the worst: another affirmation that, by using chemical
weapons, the Syrian regime crossed the “red line” articulated
by President  Barack Obama  last year.  In a  letter  to Representative Eliot Engel written before
the Ghouta attack, Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, set out the reasons for administration’s
reluctance to intervene in Syria. If the U.S. is to back a party
in the conflict, that party “must be ready to promote their
interests and ours when the balance shifts in their favor,” he
wrote. “Today, they are not.”  Dempsey and the White House are right not to want to own
another conflict in the  Middle East . Yet failure to react also
has repercussions, in Syria and beyond. Why should  Iran , or
indeed  Egypt ’s new military rulers, take U.S. commitments and
red lines at face value? In addition,  Syria  looks set for years
of continued civil war in which each side is supplied by
regional backers, and spillover to Syria’s neighbors is
inevitable. It can’t be in U.S. interests for this war to
include chemical weapons.  Nor do Dempsey’s justified concerns about the nature of
Syria’s opposition preclude action. The U.S. should accompany
any response to a proven use of chemical weapons by Assad with a
clear statement of its policy goal in Syria: not to topple the
regime or ensure victory for part or all of the opposition, but
to force the main parties to a cease-fire. There are ways to do
this short of a full-scale U.S. intervention, and an
internationally endorsed statement of these limited goals would
help to guard against mission creep.  If the claims against Assad prove true and Russia vetoes
action by the UN, the U.S. and its allies will need to present a
defensible legal justification for acting outside the  Security
Council . That’s  not impossible . Working with allies such as
Jordan and  Turkey  that have been affected by attacks and
incursions from Syria, the U.S. could build a consensus for
action.  As Dempsey’s letter makes clear, the administration has
chosen a noninterventionist policy in Syria.  Almost exactly  one
year ago, Obama said that “a red line for us is we start seeing
a whole bunch of chemical weapons moving around or being
utilized. That would change my calculus.”  Today’s allegations, when figured into that calculus, may
soon demand a more forceful response. Whether it is cruise
missiles against Syria’s air force or another military option,
it is a response the president -- and the rest of the world --
should be prepared to deliver.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 