-- Russia Foils Murder Plot Against Ex-Spy Chapman’s Bank Boss
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-08-21T14:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/russia-foils-banker-s-murder-abduction-plot-at-chapman-employer.html
Russian police arrested a man
suspected of plotting the abduction and murder of Alexander
Volovnik, president of  OAO Fondservisbank , a Moscow-based lender
that counts spy Anna Chapman as a  board  member.  The man borrowed about 800 million rubles ($24 million)
from the bank and tried to kill Volovnik to avoid repaying the
loan, Fondservisbank’s spokesman, Grigory Belkin, said by phone
today. Moscow  police  and the  Investigative Committee  said the
suspect tried to abduct and extort money from a president of a
Moscow commercial lender, without identifying the bank.  The suspect was caught in a sting operation staged in a
garage by undercover officers impersonating both hostages and
abductors, according to two statements released by the law
enforcement agencies. State television channel Rossiya 24  showed 
the person it said commissioned the crime denying wrongdoing and
saying he came to the garage to pick up jars of cucumbers.  Fondservisbank,  Russia ’s  93rd  biggest lender as of April 1
with 46 billion rubles in assets, came to prominence in October
2010, months after Chapman pleaded guilty and was deported from
the U.S. as a member of a Russian spy ring. Chapman, who was
initially hired to advise the bank that invests in high-technology industries, was promoted to the board of directors in
May.  Garage Scene  Law enforcement officials learned that the suspect began
organizing the plot in August. Undercover officers agreed to
kidnap and kill Volovnik and his bodyguard and then lured the
alleged mastermind with a promise to deliver the victims to the
garage, according to the statements.  A report on state television showed red paint splattered to
make the scene look like a homicide. The man may be charged with
arranging a murder and faces eight years to life in prison,
investigators said.  Volovnik is the third biggest  shareholder  in the bank with
a 6 percent stake, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  