-- Sales of U.S. Existing Homes Rise to Highest Since 2009
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-08-21T20:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-rise-to-highest-since-2009.html
Sales of  previously owned  U.S. homes
jumped in July to the second-highest level in more than six
years as buyers rushed to lock in  mortgage rates  before they
increased any more.  Purchases advanced 6.5 percent to a 5.39 million annual
rate last month, beating the 5.15 million  median forecast  of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in  Washington . Sales were
the strongest since a government tax credit temporarily boosted
demand in November 2009, and second-highest since March 2007.  The data reflect closings of contracts signed a month or
two earlier, when  mortgage rates  were just beginning to edge up
from record lows, persuading buyers to complete transactions as
borrowing costs subsequently shot up. Gains in employment and
wages will probably give households the means and confidence to
sustain demand throughout 2013.  “Housing will be an important part of the recovery through
the rest of this year and into 2014,” said  Gus Faucher , senior
economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh.
PNC is the most accurate forecaster of existing-home sales over
the past two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
“We have a better labor market and improved confidence, so the
underlying demand is there.”  Stocks Decline  Stocks fell after minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s July
policy meeting showed support for Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
plan to start reducing bond buying later this year if the
economy improves. The  S&P 500  declined 0.6 percent to 1,642.8,
the lowest since July 8, at the close in  New York . The S&P
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index retreated 0.6 percent to
412.21.  “Almost all participants confirmed that they were broadly
comfortable” with the committee moderating “the pace of its
securities purchases later this year,” according to the record
of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July 30-31 gathering
released today in Washington.  The FOMC will probably reduce its $85 billion in monthly
purchases at its Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to 65 percent of
48 economists in an Aug. 9-13 Bloomberg survey. The median
estimate called for a cut to $75 billion each month.  Estimates for the pace of existing-home sales last month in
the Bloomberg survey of 76 economists ranged from 4.95 million
to 5.5 million. The NAR revised the June reading down to a 5.06
million annualized rate from a previously reported 5.08 million.  Tax Credit  The 6.5 percent  jump  in demand last month from June would
be the biggest since January 2002, excluding the periods in 2009
and 2010 that were influence by the government homebuyer tax
credit and its extension.  Compared with a year earlier,  purchases  increased 17.2
percent in July on an adjusted basis, today’s report showed.  The surge in demand also boosted property values as the
median  price  increased 13.7 percent in July from a year earlier,
the most since October 2005. It climbed to $213,500 last month
from $187,800 in July 2012.  While the number of homes on the market is growing, it’s
still low, which also contributed to the increase in prices,
 Lawrence Yun , NAR chief economist, said at a news conference
today as the figures were released.  Lean Inventory  There were 2.28 million homes for sales in July, up from
2.16 million a month earlier, according to the report. At the
current sales pace, it would take 5.1  months  to sell those
houses, the same as in June. The inventory was down from 2.4
million a year earlier, and the lowest for any July since 2002.  Higher borrowing costs encouraged more Americans to lock in
rates before they headed higher. The  average rate  for a 30-year
fixed mortgage climbed to 4.4 percent in the week ended Aug. 15
from a record low of 3.31 percent in November, according to
 Freddie Mac .  “The increases in rates panicked some buyers,” Yun said
in the press conference. Higher borrowing costs “generally
provide a sense of urgency to close” on home purchases.  Yun said that bigger increases in rates will “reduce the
pool of eligible homebuyers” and the average 30-year mortgage
may reach 5 percent by year-end.  That will probably mean sales may not improve much more
from July’s pace, said Thomas Lawler, president of Lawler
Economic & Housing Consulting LLC in Leesburg, Virginia.  Sales Outlook  “It’s not unusual, when you see a spike in mortgage rates,
to see a couple months later a spike in closed sales,” said
Lawler, a former senior vice president at  Fannie Mae  in
Washington. “People saw the beginning of the trend and
accelerated their pattern of buying. In all likelihood, within a
month or two, you’re likely to see the pace of sales slow.”  Existing-home purchases are recovering from a 13-year low
of 4.11 million reached in 2008. Annual sales  peaked  at 7.08
million three years earlier. A total of 4.66 million previously
owned houses were sold in 2012.  The Realtors group projects 5.05 million home sales this
year, and Yun said that figure may soon be revised higher.  Sales climbed in all four U.S. regions, with the biggest
gain in the Northeast.  Supply constraints, rising home prices and an improved
labor market have benefited homebuilders, whose confidence
climbed this month to the highest level since November 2005. A
Commerce Department report last week showed housing starts
advanced in July, paced by a rebound in construction of
multifamily projects. Building permits also rose, signaling
construction will keep rising.  Consumer Confidence  Higher borrowing costs may be seeping into  consumer
confidence . A preliminary  sentiment  index from Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan fell in August to 80 from a six-year high of 85.1 a month earlier.  The index on home-buying conditions dropped this month to
the lowest level since February, Daniel Silver at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in New York, who had access to the data, said in an Aug.
16 research note.  Investors in July accounted for 16 percent of all existing-home sales, down from a peak of 22 percent in February,
according to Yun.  The pickup in borrowing costs may start to work to the
advantage of some home-buyers, who have been competing with
investors during the housing rebound, Spencer Rascoff, chief
executive officer of  Zillow Inc. (Z) , said on an Aug. 6 conference
call. Zillow, the operator of the largest U.S. real-estate
website, reported sales jumped  69 percent  in the second quarter
from a year earlier, topping the average estimate of nine
analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  