-- Scaramucci Raises Fund-of-Hedge-Funds Assets, Asian Bets
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2013-08-22T02:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/salt-s-scaramucci-raises-fund-of-hedge-funds-assets-asian-bets.html
SkyBridge Capital LLC , organizer of
the biggest U.S. hedge-fund event, raised its assets by 24
percent to $8.3 billion and allocated more money to Asian
managers ahead of its second conference in the region.  Assets have increased from $6.7 billion when it held its
Asian inaugural  SkyBridge Alternatives Conference , known as
SALT, last October in  Singapore , Managing Partner Anthony Scaramucci said. Its Series G flagship fund, which has put money
with Third Point LLC run by billionaire hedge-fund manager
 Daniel Loeb , is up 7.1 percent this year through July, according
to a letter sent to investors. The Eurekahedge Fund of Funds
Index has gained 3.7 percent in the period.  “In a period of great market uncertainty and post-crisis,
investors are seeking an appropriate risk-return profile,”
Scaramucci said in a telephone interview.  More than 10 percent of the new allocations into the
offshore offerings came from Asia, said Scaramucci, who sees
growing appetite from countries including  Japan  and  South Korea 
for investments that deliver high returns with low volatility.
Investments in Asia-based managers have increased in the past
year, he said, declining to elaborate.  Asia Push  Japanese hedge funds have returned 18 percent this year
through the end of July, according to Eurekahedge Pte, a
Singapore-based data provider, driven by expectations that Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe will pull the country out of deflation and
boost the economy.  “Dramatic macroeconomic changes” are being implemented in
the world’s third-largest economy, Scaramucci said.  “What that means over the next five to 10 years is that if
the Japanese economy starts to do better, it would help the rest
of  Asia ,” he said.  As part of its push to expand in Asia, New York-based
SkyBridge announced a strategic partnership with South Korea’s
Woori Investment & Securities in July. SkyBridge will distribute
its hedge-fund products in Asia through the partnership, while
Seoul-based Woori will allocate capital to SkyBridge’s fund-of-hedge-funds vehicle, according to the U.S. company.  The Eurekahedge Asian Hedge Fund Index returned 7.9 percent
through July, the best performer among five regional indexes,
based on preliminary figures, as Japanese managers led the
gains. The global gauge has increased 3.6 percent, while the
North American index has added 5.4 percent, according to
Eurekahedge.  ‘Hedge-fund Hub’  The SALT event, which will be held at the Marina Bay Sands
next month, will host speakers including former U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner ;  Jin Liqun , former chairman of the
board of supervisors at China Investment Corp., and managers
from  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  and Korea Investment Corp.,
according to the organizer.  For SALT “to be in Asia two years in a row tells us there
is continued interest in Asia and the growing Asian hedge-fund
industry,” said Will Tan, managing director at Singapore-based
recruiting firm Principle Partners Pte. “Like most conferences,
SALT is demand-driven so clearly this is a positive for Asia and
for Singapore as a hedge-fund hub.”  About 1,000 people are expected to attend the four-day
conference, according to the company. SkyBridge has been holding
the SALT conference since 2009 in  Las Vegas . The event in the
gaming center in May attracted 1,900 people from 27 countries,
according to SkyBridge.  The flagship fund returned a net 21.29 percent in 2012,
aided by its investment in Third Point’s hedge fund, the letter
to investor showed. The Series G fund benefited from allocations
into funds that invested in structured credit and fixed-income
mortgage-backed securities. Funds of  hedge funds  spread
investors’ money across a variety of holdings.  Before starting SkyBridge in 2005, Scaramucci, known in the
industry as “the Mooch,” co-founded Oscar Capital Management,
which he sold to Neuberger Berman LLC in 2001. He had previously
worked at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in private  wealth management .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  