-- Scandinavia’s Richest Economy Stumbles as Euro Area Rebounds
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-08-22T12:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/scandinavia-s-richest-economy-stumbles-behind-euro-zone-rebound.html
Norway , western Europe’s biggest oil
and gas producer and home to a $760 billion wealth fund, is
struggling to spur demand just as the rest of Europe surfaces
from half a decade of economic pain.  According to  DNB ASA (DNB) , the country’s biggest bank, Norway
will be the only European nation of the 15 it tracks whose
economic growth won’t accelerate next year. The biggest drag
comes from consumers, who have hesitated to spend as house price
gains peter out and private debt mounts.  Norway, once a haven from Europe’s debt turmoil, is failing
to keep pace with recoveries in other developed markets. The
$480 billion economy grew just 0.2 percent in the second
quarter, less than a third the pace forecast in a Bloomberg
survey. The news drove the krone down as much as 1.5 percent
against the euro, with the losses continuing through yesterday.  “Growth in 2013 could be below trend,” Finance Minister
Sigbjoern Johnsen said yesterday in an interview in Oslo. “It’s
too early to fix a figure.”  Signs of an economic slowdown come as the Labor-led
government of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg trails in the
polls against an opposition that’s promised tax cuts. Both sides  have made pledges that draw on the nation’s sovereign
wealth fund, the world’s biggest. Norwegians vote on Sept. 9.  Growth Enabling  The Conservative-led opposition, which includes the
Progress Party, would get 97 seats in parliament, versus 70 for
the government, according to an Aug. 19 poll by TNS Gallup.  The debate has hinged on how best to spend the nation’s oil
wealth and whether to keep a fiscal rule that limits government
spending to 4 percent of the oil fund. The Conservatives favor
the rule, which was drawn up by Labor, while the Progress Party
is advocating domestic asset purchases.  “To improve the economic growth of Norway we need to turn
the fiscal expenditure toward growth-enabling investments,” Jan Tore Sanner, finance spokesman for the Conservatives Party, said
yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions. The
Conservatives “will prioritize education, research,
infrastructure and tax relief,” he said.  Growth, excluding offshore income, will slow to 2 percent
this year from 3.4 percent in 2012, DNB estimates. The growth
rate won’t pick up until 2016, when it will reach 2.1 percent,
according to the bank.  Sweden ,  Germany  and the U.S. will all
grow faster than Norway in 2014, DNB predicts.  2004 Low  The Norwegian krone dropped 0.9 percent against Sweden’s
krona today to its lowest since March 2004. Norway’s currency
has lost more than 8 percent against its Swedish counterpart
this year. It’s down 9.5 percent against the euro in the period.  Still, Stoltenberg yesterday indicated the government would
limit spending of oil money next year. He said in an interview
with Dagens Naeringsliv that spending will be 50 billion kroner
($8.2 billion) below the 4 percent fiscal policy rule next year
and on level with this year.  “Slower economic growth will lead to higher unemployment
and to slower wage growth,” DNB economists Kjersti Haugland and
Kyrre Aamdal said in a report this week. “Housing prices have
shown a weaker tendency recently.”  The property market is stagnating as the central bank
estimates household debt burdens will reach a record 200 percent
of disposable incomes this year. Banks such as DNB have also
raised mortgage rates to cope with stricter capital standards.  Conservative leader Erna Solberg earlier this month said
the country should remove the lending limits for its mortgage
industry to further support the housing market.  House Prices  While central bank rates have stayed on hold since March
2011, higher mortgage rates this year are cooling the housing
market. House prices slid a seasonally adjusted 1.2 percent in
July, trimming the annual increase to 3.9 percent from 8.5
percent at the start of the year, according to data from the
Norwegian Real Estate Agents Association.  DNB said in its report that it foresees a 2.5 percent
decline in home price in 2015 to 2016.  “A larger decline in prices will be prevented in part by a
stagnation in housing construction over the same period,”
Haugland and Aamdal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  