-- Short Seller Demand Spurs Borrowing Shortage in Vipshop
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-08-21T20:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/short-seller-demand-spurs-borrowing-shortage-in-vipshop.html
Investors’ growing expectation for a
decline in  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , a Chinese online fashion
retailer, is causing the biggest deficit of shares available to
short in four weeks.  About 82 percent of Vipshop’s securities available for
borrowing were  sold short  as of last week, the highest since
July 22, according to Markit, a London-based research firm. The
ratio slipped to 78 percent on Aug. 19, the latest data
available from Markit. The average ratio for Chinese stocks
traded in the U.S. is 40 percent, compared with 7 percent for
companies on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   In a short sale, an investor borrows a security and sells
it, expecting to profit from a decline by repurchasing it later
at a lower price. The lack of supply forces prices upward and
traders with short positions are forced to buy the securities to
limit their losses. The resulting surge of buying leads to even
higher prices.  “Pretty much everything that can be borrowed is being sold
short, showing you a very big demand to short this name,” Simon
Colvin, an analyst at Markit, said by phone yesterday.  American depositary receipts  of Guangzhou-based Vipshop
sank 4.4 percent to $39.56 at the close in New York, falling for
a second day. The company has rallied 124 percent this year.  Short seller Citron Research wrote in a Twitter post Aug.
13 that Vipshop’s shares may slump more than 50 percent, citing
data that showed users fell 20 percent in June from a month
earlier. Andrew Left, the founder of Citron, confirmed the post
by phone that day, adding that he started a short position on
Vipshop.  Jeremy Peruski at ICR Inc., Vipshop’s external investor
relations manager, couldn’t be reached by phone or e-mail when
contacted for a comment after business hours in Beijing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  