-- Singapore’s GIC Said to Buy Blackstone’s Broadgate Stake
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-08-22T12:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/singapore-s-gic-said-to-buy-blackstone-s-broadgate-stake.html
GIC Pte, the  Singapore  sovereign-wealth fund, is the buyer of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s stake in
 London ’s Broadgate office complex, according to two people with
knowledge of the transaction.  GIC is buying 50 percent of Broadgate, a cluster of 16
office buildings, shops and restaurants on 30 acres (12
hectares) in the  City of London  financial district, according to
the people, who asked not to be named because the deal is
private. Blackstone agreed to sell the stake for more than 1.7
billion pounds ($2.7 billion), Bloomberg reported on Aug. 20.  The purchase, at a record price for a central London
property, is the latest trophy acquisition for GIC, formerly
known as  Government of Singapore Investment Corp.  The fund last
year invested in an  office tower  in San Francisco’s financial
district, and in March acquired the Grand Wailea on the Hawaiian
island of Maui and four other resorts from a group including
Paulson & Co. for $1.5 billion.  “The Broadgate stake makes sense for GIC as a long-term
strategic investment,” Song Seng Wun, an economist at CIMB
Research in Singapore, said. “Trophy assets in London,  Europe ’s
financial capital, are always attractive targets for
institutional investors.”  Mah Lay Choon, a spokeswoman for GIC, declined to comment
on the transaction. PropertyWeek.com reported yesterday that the
fund was the buyer.  Andrew Dowler , a London-based spokesman for
Blackstone with RLM Finsbury, declined to comment.  Property Investments  Investors from the Asia Pacific region were the most
dominant buyers of real estate in the City of London in the
first six months of 2013, spending 867 million pounds,  Savills
Plc (SVS)  said in an Aug. 19 report. Rents in the district are
expected to rise 6.4 percent in 2014, broker Cushman & Wakefield
Inc. said in an e-mail.  GIC had 10 percent of its assets in real estate globally as
of March 31, unchanged from the previous year, according to its
latest annual report published this month. The fund is ranked
the eighth-biggest by the Las Vegas-based Sovereign Wealth
Institute, which estimates its assets at $248 billion.  Property topped the list of state funds’ investments last
year, overtaking commodities and financial services,
Institutional Investor’s Sovereign Wealth Center in London said
in May. Real estate made up 26 percent of investments, up from
14 percent in 2011, the center said.  HSBC Deal  Until now, the most expensive purchase of a central London
property was Metrovacesa SA’s 1.09 billion-pound acquisition of
the London headquarters of HSBC Holdings Plc in 2007, according
to Cushman & Wakefield.  Blackstone, based in  New York , bought the stake from
 British Land Co. (BLND)  in a 2009 deal that valued the complex at 2.1
billion pounds. The private-equity firm put money into
improvements and agreed to hold its interest for at least three
years. British Land retains the other half of Broadgate.  Gordon Simpson, a spokesman for British Land at RLM
Finsbury, declined to comment on the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  