-- America Movil Secures Funding for $9.7 Billion KPN Bid
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2013-08-21T20:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/slim-s-america-movil-secures-funding-for-9-7-billion-kpn-bid.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL)  said it has
secured the funding to finance its 7.2 billion-euro ($9.7
billion) bid for  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  as the Dutch carrier set an
investor vote on a sale of its German business E-Plus.  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil  has agreed to binding credit
facilities, subject to conditions, with undisclosed financial
institutions, the Mexico City-based company said in a statement
today. The phone company will also today submit an offer to
Dutch financial authorities for approval.  America Movil is offering 2.40 euros a share to boost its
30 percent stake in KPN to more than 50 percent. Slim’s offer
came weeks after KPN agreed to a separate 8.1 billion-euro deal
to sell E-Plus to  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  -- a transaction Slim
has yet to reveal his position on. Shareholders get to vote on
the sale at an Oct. 2 meeting in The Hague, KPN said today in a
separate statement.  “The extraordinary shareholder meeting will take place in
any event,” KPN said in documents posted on its website. The
Dutch carrier said it will issue a separate position statement
should America Movil indeed start a formal offer for KPN.  KPN  rose  1.6 percent to 2.27 euros at the close in
Amsterdam, valuing the company at 9.68 billion euros. America
Movil fell less than 1 percent to 13.26 pesos in Mexico City.  Breakup Fees  KPN will continue to execute its current strategy if the E-Plus sale is canceled, it said. The phone carrier must pay
Telefonica and  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG (O2D)  25 million
euros each if its shareholders reject the sale. KPN will get 100
million euros from Telefonica Deutschland if competition
authorities block the sale, it said.  KPN’s independent foundation, which has the power to defend
the carrier from a takeover, said last week it is concerned that
America Movil isn’t being clear about its offer and should also
“provide clarity in a timely fashion” on its position with
respect to the E-Plus transaction.  Investors holding KPN shares as of Sept. 4 will be entitled
to vote at the meeting the following month at its headquarters.
Shareholders also need to register to vote and have until Sept.
26 to do so.  Last week, JPMorgan Chase & Co., which advises KPN on the
E-Plus transaction, reported a 3.53 percent stake in the phone
carrier as of Aug. 15.  To contact the reporterw on this story:
Chris Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  