-- Soho China Sees Oversupply in Second-Tier Cities’ Office Markets
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-08-21T01:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/soho-china-sees-oversupply-in-second-tier-cities-office-markets.html
China ’s second-tier cities have an
oversupply of offices as companies halt expansion amid a
slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy, according to one
of the country’s biggest commercial builders.  “There are a lot of empty buildings,” Zhang Xin, chief
executive officer of  Soho China Ltd. (410) , said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television today. “Concentrating in cities like
Beijing and  Shanghai  is less risky, but when we go to second and
third cities the demand instantly reduces.”  China’s economic expansion slowed to 7.5 percent in the
second quarter, extending the longest streak of sub-8 percent
growth in at least two decades. Soho China is the biggest
developer in Beijing’s central business district, where office
rents fell in the second quarter, the first decline in almost
four years, according to property broker Knight Frank LLP.  “Companies are not paying as much to rent to expand,”
said Zhang, who co-founded the company with husband and Chairman
 Pan Shiyi . “The slowdown is inevitable and is already
happening.”  Zhang last year steered Soho China toward what it called a
“build-and-hold” model from a “build-and-sell” model to take
advantage of more stable and predictable rental income rather
than sales proceeds.  The company said yesterday that first-half  underlying
profit  more than doubled as it booked higher earnings from
property sales, mostly from those made the year earlier.  As it moves to the new business strategy, Soho China will
hold most of the unsold properties under development as self-owned investment properties and will also finish selling the
“leftover” properties that were put on the market before it
changed the business model, it said.  Soho China shares rose 1.3 percent to HK$6.50 at 9:33 a.m.
in  Hong Kong  today. The stock has gained 4.5 percent this year,
compared with the  Hang Seng Index (HSI) ’s 3.4 percent loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  