-- Spurs Set to Sign Willian for Record $47 Million: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-21T08:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/spurs-set-to-sign-willian-for-record-47-million-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Tottenham Tops Record  Tottenham Hotspur is set to break its transfer record for
the third time in two months by paying Anzhi Makhachkala 30
million pounds ($47 million) for Willian, the  Guardian reported .  The Brazilian playmaker was in  London  yesterday for a
medical test at Spurs, which is also trying to sign Roma’s 25
million pound-rated forward Erik Lamela, the newspaper added.  Tottenham’s outlay, which includes 17 million pounds on
midfielder Paulinho and 26 million pounds on striker  Roberto Soldado , reinforced speculation that it’s prepared to sell Welsh
forward Gareth Bale to Real  Madrid , the Guardian added.  More Spurs Signings?  Tottenham is also keen on signing Ajax defender Toby
Alderweireld and retains an interest in his teammate Christian
Eriksen with both players having a year remaining on their
contracts, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Spurs are also in talks with Bulgarian club Botev Plovdiv
over winger Todor Nedelev, the newspaper added.  Roma attacking midfielder Miralem Pjanic is also a
Tottenham target, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Improved Bid  Manchester United  is planning an improved joint bid of 35
million pounds for Everton’s Marouane Fellaini and Leighton Baines after its initial 28 million-pound offer was rejected,
the  Daily Mirror reported .  The new bid will rate Belgian midfielder Fellaini at 20
million pounds and England left-back Baines at 15 million
pounds, the Mirror said.  United’s Shaw Inquiry  United asked about the availability of Southampton left-back Luke Shaw, 18, after being rebuffed in its pursuit of
Baines, the  Daily Express reported .  Shaw, who’s rated at about 10 million pounds, signed a
five-year contract in the off-season and Southampton doesn’t
need to sell him, the newspaper added.  United left-back Alexander Buttner may join Besiktas on
loan by the end of this week, the  Daily Mail reported .  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  