-- Standard Chartered to Win Angola License in 2013: Lopes
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   M a n u e l   S o q u e
-- 2013-08-21T10:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/standard-chartered-to-win-angola-license-in-2013-lopes.html
Standard Chartered  Plc will probably
be awarded a banking license in  Angola  by the end of the year,
allowing it to compete with local and Portuguese banks in
 Africa ’s second-biggest oil producer, a central bank official
said.  The application “has to be approved by the council of
ministers,” Antonio Andre Lopes, vice-governor of the Banco
Nacional de Angola, said today in an interview in his offices in
Luanda, the capital. “We have been receiving a lot of proposals
from local and foreign investors to create new banks.”  Angola, which already has 23 lenders operating in the
country, is trying to boost lending and banking services in a
market where only 26 percent of people have bank accounts.
Financial services companies already operating in the southern
African nation include Johannesburg-based Standard Bank Group
Ltd, Banco Espirito Santo SA and local banks including Banco BIC
SA and Banco Angolano de Investimentos SA.  Other foreign lenders have expressed interest in obtaining
Angolan banking licenses, Lopes said, declining to be more
specific. By the end of the year two more local banks will get
licenses, he said. An investment banking license will be given
to a state-owned company, he said.  Standard Chartered already has a representative office in
Angola and has set up a joint venture with a state-owned
insurance company. The London-based lender, with operations in
16 African countries, plans to invest $100 million in the
continent over the next three years, Diana Layfield, the head of
Standard’s Chartered’s African operation, said in an interview
in  Cape Town  in May.  Robust Banks  It currently operates in 16 African countries, according to
its website.  Sarah Lindgreen , a London-based spokeswoman, said
 Peter Sands , the company’s chief executive officer, in February
said Standard Chartered in February signed an agreement to form
a bank in a venture with Angolan state-owned insurance company
ENSA. She declined to comment further.  Lopes said the central bank will let market forces dictate
whether banks consolidate, while it will create a capitalization
fund to help banks comply with a minimum capital requirement of
$25 million.  “The Angolan system is robust, notwithstanding the
existence of bad credit” and a fall in profits, he said.
Deposits and lending have increased and the central bank expects
30 percent of Angolans to have bank accounts by year end, he
said.  ‘Long Way’  The central bank in the last three months approved
regulations to improve corporate governance, including
requirements for compliance departments appointed by
shareholders and a separation of executive and oversight roles,
he said. External auditing rules have been put in place and the
central bank wants local lenders to comply Basel II regulations,
he said.  In order to boost lending the central has reduced  reserve
requirements  to 15 percent of foreign currency holdings from 20
percent, he said. Local currency asset requirements have been
kep’t at 15 percent.  The government is also trying to subsidize loans for small
businesses through the Angola Invests program.  “Of course we still have a long way to go,” he said. “We
are not happy with the situation.”  Angola plans to start a stock exchange in 2016 and Lopes
expects banks to trade on the bourse, Lopes said. A secondary
 bond market  will probably start next year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Johannesburg at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Soque in Luanda at 
 msoque@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  