-- Staples Plunges Most Since 2011 on Profit Forecast Cut
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-08-21T20:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/staples-plunges-after-cutting-forecast-on-international-weakness.html
Staples Inc. (SPLS) , the world’s largest
office-supplies chain, slumped the most in more than two years
after cutting its annual profit forecast because of declines in
its retail and international business.  The  shares  slid 15 percent to $14.27 at the close in New
York for the largest drop since May 18, 2011. Staples has gained
25 percent this year, compared with a 15 percent increase for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Staples, which suffers from waning consumer demand for
products such as ink and toner and computer accessories, cut its
outlook after second-quarter results were weaker than it
expected. Chief Executive Officer Ron Sargent said drops in
international operations countered online growth and cost
management. International sales fell 8 percent in the period
ended Aug. 3, hurt by Europe and  Australia .  The decreasing appetite for items such as ink is a trend
that may continue as offices become more digital, Daniel Binder,
an analyst for Jefferies & Co. in New York, wrote in a note to
clients today.  Full-year earnings-per-share from continuing operations
will be $1.21 to $1.25, the Framingham, Massachusetts-based
company said in a statement today, trailing the $1.32 average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company previously
projected $1.30 to $1.35.  Revenue in the second quarter declined 2.2 percent to $5.3
billion, the  fifth drop  in six quarters. Sales will fall in the
low-single digits for the year, the company said.  Employment Effect  Sales have also been slowed by the weak quality of job
growth in the U.S. that has skewed heavily toward part-time jobs
that wouldn’t require as many office supplies, David Strasser,
an analyst for Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in New York, wrote in
a note to clients.  Strasser has a buy rating on Staples.  Staples’ stock gain this year has partly been caused by the
expected benefit of the merger of  Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  and
 OfficeMax Inc. (OMX) , Jefferies’s Binder said in the note. The
combination of the second- and third-largest U.S. office-supply
chains will be challenging and has the potential to lead to
market share gains for Staples, Binder said. He has a hold
rating on the shares.  Net income in the second quarter fell 15 percent to $102.5
million, or 16 cents a share, from $120.4 million, or 18 cents,
a year earlier, Staples said. Analysts projected 18 cents, on
average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  