-- State Street CEO Says Fixed-Income Investing Focus Wrong
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-08-21T20:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/state-street-ceo-says-fixed-income-investing-focus-wrong.html
It’s a mistake for investors to be
focusing on fixed income, according to Joseph L. Hooley, chief
executive officer of Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT)   Ordinary investors should have a well-balanced portfolio,
and those over-allocated to bonds may be hurt as interest rates
rise, Hooley said today in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Taking Stock” with Pimm Fox.  “I worry more about the retail investor,” Hooley said.
“The retail investors are going to find themselves on the wrong
side of the equation.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve may begin scaling back its
economic stimulus program of buying bonds this year and end it
in mid-2014, Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in June, prompting
investors to flee bond and equity markets. Investors moved back
into equities in July and August, while continuing to exit
bonds.  U.S.-registered bond mutual and exchange-traded funds may
be headed for their worst year of redemptions in almost a decade
after investors withdrew $30.3 billion this month through Aug.
19, according to TrimTabs Investment Research, based in
Sausalito,  California . Bond funds have suffered $4 billion in
redemptions this year, which would mark the biggest withdrawal
since investors pulled $7 billion in 2004.  State Street said July 19 its second-quarter profit on an
operating basis rose 16 percent to $571 million, driven mainly
by rising global equity markets. The company has reoriented
toward growth assets such as exchange-traded funds, Hooley said
in today’s interview.  The third-biggest custody bank, State Street oversees $18.9
trillion. It also manages $2.15 trillion in investments for
clients.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and hedge funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  