-- Sugar, Coffee Fall on Emerging Market Currencies; Cocoa Slides
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-08-21T10:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/sugar-coffee-fall-on-emerging-market-currencies-cocoa-slides.html
Soft commodities including sugar and
coffee fell in  London  as weakening currencies in  emerging
markets  boosted prospects for higher exports. Cocoa declined.  Fifteen of 24 emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg declined in the past month, with the Indian rupee, the
Brazilian real and the Indonesian rupiah all losing more than 6
percent.  Brazil  is the world’s largest sugar producer followed
by  India .  Indonesia  is the third-biggest robusta coffee grower.
Commodities fell on speculation the Federal Reserve will slow
its stimulus program.  “Soft commodities have been under pressure from
depreciating emerging market currencies, which are boosting
producers’ revenues and increasing the prospects for exports,”
 Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said
by e-mail today. “There’s also a general decline across the
entire commodities sector due to profit taking after decent
gains recently.”  White sugar for October delivery fell 0.1 percent to
$487.90 a metric ton by 11:42 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in London.
Robusta coffee for November delivery slid 0.5 percent to $1,841
a ton.  The Fed will release minutes from its last meeting later
today, which may provide clues on whether the pace of stimulus
will be slowed. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw
materials fell as much as 0.5 percent. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar
Index, which tracks the greenback against 10 major currencies,
rose 0.2 percent.  The weakness of the real against the dollar means that
millers in Brazil will favor sugar over ethanol, Nick Penney, a
senior trader at Sucden Financial Ltd. in London, said in a
report e-mailed yesterday. Producers in India may seek to export
sugar because the rupee reached a record low and the country is
in the fourth year of domestic surpluses,  Olam International
Ltd. (OLAM)  said.  In New York, raw sugar for delivery in October was little
changed at 16.46 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. Arabica
coffee for delivery in December gained 0.4 percent to $1.193 a
pound after falling as much as 3.3 percent yesterday.  Cocoa for December delivery declined 0.7 percent to 1,648
pounds ($2,584) a ton on NYSE Liffe. Cocoa for delivery in
December fell 0.7 percent to $2,503 a ton in ICE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  