-- Swedish Army Turned Professional Tempts More Female Recruits
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-08-21T10:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/swedish-army-turned-professional-tempts-more-female-recruits.html
Sweden’s  Armed Forces  have seen a
sharp increase in the number of female applicants after
mandatory service for men was abandoned and the army became a
professional force offering post-educational employment.  The share of women who applied to three-month basic
training has increased to about a fifth of all applicants from
about 14 percent in 2011, Peter Oberg, chief of staff at the
personnel arm of the Swedish Armed Forces, said yesterday by
telephone. Even in a “good year” the old service never saw
female interest rise above 5 percent, he said.  Sweden, which hasn’t been at war since the time of the
Battle of Waterloo in 1815, dropped conscription in 2010 after a
decade of dwindling actual draft numbers and the military now
has to market itself like any other employer.  Recent ads showing people arranging bookshelves according
to color or fooling around with mobile phones ask the rhetorical
question “what are you up to?” and are meant to provoke
thought on how young many people waste their time, according to
the army.  Exposure on television and in social media and an increased
focus on international peace-keeping missions have probably made
joining the military more attractive, Oberg said. Previously,
the army’s only communication was a terse letter in the mail to
all 18-year-old men with their draft orders.  Attracting Women  “The development in the past years has been very positive
as the Armed Forces have positioned themselves as a regular
employer,” Oberg said. “We’ve been more visible in society and
that may attract women who want to make a difference.”  Sweden  has an operational presence in more than 20
countries connected to peace-keeping missions with about 1,000
staff based outside Sweden, according to the Armed Forces
website. The basic training gets about 10 applicants per
available spot and very few who complete the camp leave the
military, Oberg said. A guaranteed job with a minimum pay of
18,000 kronor ($2,800) per month after training also helps
attract new recruits, he said.  Soldiers can also join the Home Guard, which mainly acts in
the case of natural disasters or large accidents, as part-time
workers. Basic training is also a prerequisite for the officer
program, where about 16 percent of the students are women.
Soldiers must be over 18 and Swedish citizens.  The armed forces employ 55,000 people. Beside civilian
staff and officers, about 6,000 people work as full-time
soldiers and sailors, of which 11 percent are women. The target
is to increase this number to 20 percent “very soon,” Oberg
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in  Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net  