-- Swiss Cycling Drops Backing for McQuaid in UCI Re-Election Blow
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-08-21T12:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/swiss-cycling-drops-backing-for-mcquaid-in-uci-re-election-blow.html
Swiss cycling’s governing body
withdrew its support for the re-election bid of Pat McQuaid, the
president of the sport’s world ruling body, to avoid a possible
100,000 Swiss-franc ($109,000) legal challenge.  Swiss Cycling notified Union Cycliste Internationale, or
UCI, about the decision today, spokeswoman Selina Kuepfer said
in a telephone interview this morning.  While an arbitration panel was set to meet tomorrow to rule
on the validity of the Swiss body’s support for the 63-year-old
McQuaid, the federation decided to pull its backing because of
the legal costs.  It’s a further blow for McQuaid, who already lost the
support of his home federation, Ireland, in his bid for another
presidential term. His chances of re-election may now depend on
a possible rule change to allow any two federations to back a
candidate, not just the domestic body.  McQuaid, who’s led Aigle, Switzerland-based UCI since
replacing Hein Verbruggen in 2005, faced calls to resign from
Greg LeMond and other former riders following the Lance Armstrong doping scandal. Neither Verbruggen nor McQuaid did
enough to catch Armstrong, LeMond and others said.  The UCI on Jan. 29 disbanded an external commission set up
to review its handling of Armstrong, with McQuaid saying a
better way to “clear the air” was to create a truth and
reconciliation panel to study cycling’s past.  Other Candidate  McQuaid may now be ineligible for re-election, according to
Jaimie Fuller, owner of sportswear firm Skins, who funded the
Change Cycling Now pressure group. The Guardian newspaper quoted
Fuller as saying, “This should finally signal an end to Mr.
McQuaid’s quest for re-election. Mr. McQuaid should now accept
that the writing is on the wall and stop this ridiculous
charade.”  Brian Cookson, a member of the UCI’s management committee
since 2009 and president of British Cycling, is the only other
candidate for the presidency.  “This latest development is of real significance to the
presidential election process,” Cookson said on his website.
“It leaves Mr. McQuaid in a very difficult position,
particularly when viewed alongside his failure to receive a
nomination from his own national federation as required under
the constitution of the UCI.”  Kuepfer did not say whether Swiss Cycling would now back
Cookson. A vote on the presidency is scheduled for Sept. 27 in
Florence.  Calls to the UCI, seeking comment from McQuaid on the Swiss
decision, weren’t picked up.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  