-- U.K. Rebuts Conflict-of-Interest Concerns in Defense Sale
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-08-21T12:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/u-k-rebuts-conflict-of-interest-concerns-in-defense-sale.html
Concerns that conflicts of interest
may derail the part-privatization of the U.K.’s military-equipment procurement agency are misplaced, the minister
overseeing the move said.  “I don’t see philosophically any difficulty in outsourcing
procurement activity compared to any other kinds of activity,”
Defence Procurement Minister Philip Dunne said in an interview
late yesterday in his office in London. “The bidding entities
have passed an initial conflict test.”  The Ministry of Defence is seeking to transform the Defense
Equipment & Support agency, with an annual budget of 14 billion
pounds ($22 billion), into a government-owned, contractor-operated organization, known as a go-co, to cut costs. The U.K.
would be the first country anywhere to privatize defense
procurement decisions.  Two groups are in the final running for the project -- one
comprising CH2M Hill Inc.,  WS Atkins (ATK)  Plc and  Serco Group Plc (SRP) ,
with the other including Bechtel Group Inc.,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and PA Consulting. The  Independent
newspaper  last month cited Babcock International Group Plc Chief
Executive Officer Peter Rogers as saying potential conflicts of
interest are one reason why his company, which helps build the
U.K.’s nuclear submarines, didn’t bid.  The U.K. plans to spend 159 billion pounds by 2022 on
buying and servicing defense equipment through DE&S, which is
based in  Bristol in  the west of  England  and employs 16,500
people. The government is currently assessing how the new
organization would work. Ill-managed procurement decisions have
cost the U.K. billions of pounds in recent years.  Government Control  Asked if it’s right for companies such as Serco, which
holds government contracts such as for running prisons and
electronic tagging of criminals, to control how large sums of
taxpayer funds are spent, Dunne said they wouldn’t have a
“direct influence” because of being only a minority partner in
the bidding group.  “We are setting the requirement, and they are then are
negotiating the best deal on our behalf with whoever is
interested in supplying it,” he said. “We have control over
the contractor and not the other way round.”  During the bidding process, “some of the companies decided
actually on reflection, it’s in our financial and commercial
interest to remain a contractor to the MoD rather than to
potentially help organize the procurement,” he said.  RUSI Criticism  The ministry’s plan was criticized in a July 2012 report by
the Royal United Services Institute research group.  “We cannot easily see how the DE&S as a go-co would even
work in practice, let alone why it would be a less expensive and
better alternative to what is in place today,” a panel of
experts convened by London-based RUSI said. The proposal
“appears to rest on an argument that, because the government is
not very good at negotiating and managing contracts with the
private sector, it is going to negotiate an even bigger contract
with a private-sector entity to undertake the entire task on its
behalf.”  Dunne said the government is taking advice on the plan from
five private-sector advisers including lawyers, accountants and
 Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (JEC) , at a cost of about 30 million
pounds.  The U.K. is holding discussions with its U.S. allies every
two weeks about the proposal, after the  Department of Defense 
expressed concerns about the project in April, Dunne said.  U.S. Interest  “They have raised some issues, but none of them have been
raised in a red-flag/blackball kind of way,” he said. “I would
say they are extremely interested, they are more interested
since sequestration has come into place because that is making
all aspects of the U.S. government look at how they do things.”  Other allies including  Germany ,  Italy ,  Spain  and  Japan  have
also expressed interest in whether the U.K. can make procurement
more efficient, Dunne said.  The MoD intends to phase in operations by the go-co by
January 2015, focusing initially on maritime contracts, with the
successful bidders receiving a management fee for the work.
Maritime contracts will account for 45 percent of DE&S spending
over the next decade. Only after an assessment by ministers in
2017 would the government set out permanent financial incentives
for the new operators of the agency, Dunne said.  “We are expecting that in the first couple of years, the
first phase of the contract, they will generate some quick gain
savings,” Dunne said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  