-- U.K. Posts First July Deficit Since 2010 as Spending Up
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-08-21T10:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/u-k-posts-first-july-deficit-in-three-years-as-spending-rises.html
Britain posted its first July budget
deficit since 2010 as an increase in  government spending 
outstripped  tax revenue .  Net borrowing  excluding temporary support for banks was 488
million pounds ($764 million) compared with a surplus of 823
million pounds a year earlier, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in  London  today. Including coupon cash received
from the  Bank of England  on its holdings of gilts, the deficit
was 62 million pounds. Underlying tax receipts rose 3.4 percent,
lagging behind a 3.7 percent increase in spending.  Britain’s  economic recovery  has gathered momentum in recent
months, which will help Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  meet his budget targets as he tries to reduce the
deficit. While Barclays Plc described the July data as
“disappointing,” it said the government may take “some
comfort” from the increase in receipts and is broadly on track
to meet its full-year goal.  “With a pinch of luck and a dash of growth, the U.K.
fiscal position should start to look a bit better over the next
few quarters,” said Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg Bank in
London. “A return to growth from stagnation is welcome and we
are optimistic that it will kick-start a more sustainable
expansion that should, along with austerity measures, gradually
put the government’s finances on a firmer footing.”  Corporation Tax  Britain traditionally  records a surplus  in July as
quarterly payments of taxes on corporate profits pour in along
with payments from  oil companies  and self-employed workers.  In July, revenue growth was led by a 5.8 percent increase
in income tax from a year earlier, today’s report showed.
Corporation-tax payments declined 0.9 percent. Spending was
pushed up by a 4.5 percent jump in outlays by government
departments.  “Strong tax receipts in July confirm that the economy is
moving from rescue to recovery,” the Treasury in London said in
a statement. “There is still a long way to go as the U.K.
recovers from the biggest economic crisis in living memory, and
the government is sticking to the economic plan.”  Economic growth accelerated to 0.6 percent in the second
quarter. A measure of  new orders  at factories rose to the
highest in two years in August, the  Confederation of British
Industry  said today. Its manufacturing gauge advanced to zero
from minus 12 in July. That exceeded the median estimate of
minus 8 by 14 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The recent strengthening follows a weaker-than-forecast
recovery over the past two years that forced Osborne to extend
his fiscal squeeze until 2018. GDP in the second quarter was 3.3
percent below its peak in early 2008.  Pound Advances  The pound approached a seven-week high versus the euro and
stayed close to the strongest level in two months versus the
dollar. Sterling advanced 0.3 percent to 85.39 pence per euro as
of 11:45 a.m. London time after appreciating to 85.05 on Aug.
15, the strongest level since July 3. Against the dollar, it
increased 0.1 percent to $1.5692.  U.K. government bonds declined, pushing 10-year yields
toward the highest in more than two years. The  10-year gilt
yield  rose three basis points to 2.70 percent.  In the first four months of the fiscal year, the underlying
deficit widened to 36.8 billion pounds compared with 35.2
billion pounds a year earlier. The figures exclude BOE coupon
payments and the 28 billion-pound transfer of Royal Mail Group
Ltd. pension assets in April 2012. Tax income rose 3.5 percent
and spending gained 4.3 percent. The OBR has forecast a 3
percent increase in tax receipts and a 2.2 percent gain in
spending for the current fiscal year to end-March 2014.  BOE Cash  In total, the BOE will transfer 23.4 billion pounds -- 3.9
billion pounds each month between April and September -- to
clear cash that had accumulated in its  asset-purchase facility 
as of March 2013. In addition, there will be quarterly payments
of cash that builds up during the current fiscal year, the first
of which was made last month. A total of 5.3 billion pounds was
paid in July, the ONS said.  European Union rules mean only 12.3 billion pounds of the
income can count against net borrowing this year. Almost all of
that had been received by June, with only 400 million pounds
accruing last month.  Cash measures of the public finances will receive the full
benefit. There was a public-sector cash surplus of 19.6 billion
pounds in July. The central-government surplus, which excludes
the financial position of state-owned banks, was 8.8 billion
pounds. Net debt was 1.19 trillion pounds, or 74.5 percent of
GDP. That’s up from 71.1 percent a year ago.  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  will publish the minutes
of its its July 30-31 meeting at 2 p.m.  New York  time that may
offer clues on whether officials will start reducing their $85
billion of monthly bond purchases. Existing U.S. home sales rose
to an annual rate of 5.15 million units in July, the highest
level since 2009, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists
before the National Association of Realtors reports the data
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  