-- UN Inquiry Urged Into Syrian Chemical Arms Attack Claims
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r ,   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-08-21T22:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/u-k-france-call-for-un-probe-of-alleged-syrian-gas-attacks.html
The  United Nations  needs to
investigate “as soon as possible” opposition allegations that
a chemical weapons attack in Syria killed more than 1,300
people, UN Deputy Secretary-General Jan Eliasson said.  A team of UN inspectors is seeking access to an area near
Damascus where the Syrian opposition says the chemical attack
occurred, Eliasson told reporters in  New York  after a closed-door UN Security Council briefing. Amid fighting between
government and rebel forces,“the security situation right now
does not allow such access,” he said, calling for a “cessation
of hostilities” by government and opposition forces.  The UN doesn’t yet have confirmation that toxic weapons
were used, Eliasson said. The U.S. and European Union had
appealed to the UN to investigate the claim. A UN inspection
team is already in  Syria , seeking to probe earlier charges about
chemical weapons use.  President Bashar al-Assad’s government denied using
chemical weapons there. The army said it was fighting
“terrorists,” while the Foreign Ministry accused dissidents of
trying to distract the UN inspectors who are in Damascus
investigating previous claims of chemical weapons use.  The claim that more than 1,300 died in government shelling
of the Ghouta district near the Damascus airport came from
George Sabra, a member of the main political opposition, the
Syrian National Coalition, at a news conference in Istanbul. The
coalition said the area was attacked with chemical weapons.  Serious Allegation  It was the most serious allegation of chemical weapons use
since the Syrian conflict began in March 2011. If confirmed, it
would mark one of the worst atrocities in 2 1/2 years of
fighting that has killed more than 100,000 Syrians, according to
UN estimates. If disproved, it may cost the opposition trying to
topple Assad vital credibility.  Yezid Sayigh, a senior associate at the  Carnegie Middle
East Center in Beirut , said “it would be extraordinary for the
opposition to fake a claim on this scale.”  “If it can’t be verified beyond videos, then it’s going to
be very embarrassing for the opposition and it will really
weaken it and the regime will exploit that to the maximum,”
Sayigh said by phone from  Boston . “If the regime is totally
innocent and hadn’t launched any chemical attack, then it would
do everything it could to allow the UN team immediate access
just so it can prove that this is a fabrication.”  There is “strong concern” among  Security Council  members
about the allegations and the need for “clarity” about what
happened, said Maria Cristina Perceval,  Argentina ’s ambassador
to the UN.  ‘Suspicious’ Toll  All Security Council members agreed on a “strong call”
for a cease-fire in Syria and that any use of chemical weapons
by any side violates international law, she told reporters.
Argentina holds the Security Council’s rotating presidency
during August.  Swedish chemical weapons expert Ake Sellstrom, who’s
heading the UN team investigating previous allegations of
chemical weapons use, told Sweden’s TT newswire by phone from
Damascus that the high numbers of injured and dead mentioned in
the reports “sound suspicious.” He said he has seen only TV
images of the attack.  Sellstrom is in discussions with the Syrian government on
“all issues pertaining to the alleged use of chemical weapons”
in the country as well as a newly reported incident in the
suburbs of Damascus, UN spokesman Eduardo del Buey told
reporters today in New York. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon is
“shocked” at the newly reported incident, Del Buey said.  UN Action  With no solid information emerging, a slew of countries
sought UN action. The U.S. said it had asked the UN to
“urgently investigate this new allegation,” White House
spokesman  Josh Earnest  said in a statement.  European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said
in a statement that “such accusations should be immediately and
thoroughly investigated by the United Nations expert mission
which arrived recently in Syria.” The UN will meet later today
to discuss the alleged attack, Argentina’s mission to the UN
said in a post on its Twitter account.  “If verified, this would be a shocking escalation of the
use of chemical weapons in Syria,” British Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  told reporters in Brussels. “We are determined
the people responsible will one day be held to account.”  Martin Nesirky , spokesman for the UN’s Ban, said in an e-mailed statement that the UN team in Damascus “is following the
current situation in Syria carefully, and remains fully engaged
in the investigation process” as mandated by Ban.  ‘Massive Firepower’  The UN team arrived in Damascus on Aug. 18 at the
government’s invitation and is permitted to stay for as long as
14 days, a deadline extendable upon further negotiation.  “We are aware of the reports about an alleged attack and
we are trying to find out more,” Nesirky said.  Assad’s troops used “massive firepower” in the attack,
Rami Abdurrahman, head of the Coventry, U.K.-based Syrian Human
Rights Observatory, an activist group, said by phone. The
activist group said on its Facebook page that it has documented
about 100 confirmed dead in Ghouta.  Major General Salim Idris, chief of staff of the rebel Free
Syrian Army, told al-Jazeera television that gas was fired from
Mazzeh airport.  Syrian Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi said if Syria
had chemical weapons it would never use them on its own people.
The army, in a statement on state television, said the claims
reflect the “hysterical” state of the opposition.  Footage of Bodies  “Is it logical that Syria would use chemical weapons while
the UN team is in Damascus or that it would use it so close to
the capital while the wind is blowing?” Syrian lawmaker Fayez
Sayegh said by phone from Damascus.  Sayegh said the government’s troops and warplanes had
targeted armed insurgents in the suburbs and tried to avoid
harming civilians.  Arab television channels including  Al Arabiya  and al-Jazeera, which the Syrian government accuses of bias against it,
aired video taken by opposition members showing rooms of dead
civilians, including children.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , who in June pledged increased
support for rebel forces in Syria not allied with Muslim
extremists, has repeatedly said the use of chemical arms by
Assad’s regime would cross a “red line” for the U.S. Both
sides in the conflict have accused each other of using chemical
weapons.  The Syrian conflict began on the heels of the widespread
revolts in Arab nations in 2011. In addition to more than
100,000 dead, millions have been either displaced or become
refugees in neighboring countries, Ban told U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry  during a July 25 meeting in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  