-- U.K. Examines Continuing Role for Sentinel Planes
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-21T13:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/u-k-examines-continuing-role-for-sentinel-planes.html
The U.K. is examining whether to
extend use of its Sentinel reconnaissance planes after
successful deployments in combat zones, even though the aircraft
was due for withdrawal after troops pull out of  Afghanistan .  The Royal Air Force has operated the  Raytheon Co (RTN) .-built
Sentinel R1 in conflicts from Afghanistan to Libya and  Mali ,
where the modified Bombardier business jet was used to support
French operations against insurgents this year.  The usefulness of the five-jet fleet has caused military
planners to look for ways to keep in service the aircraft, which
are equipped with radar that can track individuals on the ground
and help find improvised explosive devices.  “We are very pleased with its capability, so we are
looking again at whether we can find a continuing role for
Sentinel,” Philip Dunne, the minister in charge of defense
procurement, said in an interview in London late yesterday. He
said a report into battlefield intelligence gathering would be
concluded next year, and a decision on whether to retain the
planes would be made by the time of the government’s strategic
defense and security review due after the May 2015 election.  “I don’t think it would be a new airframe,” Dunne said.
“It would be a continuation of the airframe, but the kit that
goes inside it gets upgraded pretty regularly.”  Dunne said budget constraints might prevent an upgrade of
the Apache helicopters used by British troops in Afghanistan,
being undertaken by AugustaWestland in Yeovil, southwest
 England . One alternative would be to acquire from Apache
designer  Boeing Co. (BA)  the Block III model that sports an improved
engine and other enhancements and is in production for the U.S.
Army.  ‘Under Pressure’  “We have got a limited budget which is under pressure, and
value for money will be the driving priority,” Dunne said.  Dunne said it was too early to draw conclusions about
whether declining orders for naval vessels will mean the closing
of one of three shipyards run by  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  at Portsmouth
on the south coast and at Scotstoun and Govan in Glasgow,
 Scotland . After completion of two Queen Elizabeth-class aircraft
carriers due to start coming into service in 2018, activity will
dip before the building of Type 26 frigates commences. Several
thousand jobs are at stake, according to the Unite union.  “As the carrier/carriers get floated out over the next few
years, clearly that is not a sustainable level of activity so we
expect to have the new frigate program coming in behind,” Dunne
said. “There are discussions with BAE about how they are going
to handle that gradual reduction in activity, but until we have
got those proposals finalized I can’t really enlighten you as to
what they might conclude.”  Asked if the contract for the Type 26 could be advanced to
guarantee jobs, he replied, “I am not going to be drawn on when
the frigate contract will be placed. We have said in the middle
of the decade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  