-- U.K. Banks to Pay $2 Billion for Mis-Sold Card-Insurance
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-08-22T10:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/u-k-banks-said-to-face-2-4-billion-insurance-mis-selling-bill.html
Britain’s biggest banks  will pay as
much as 1.3 billion pounds ($2 billion) to compensate customers
wrongly sold insurance to cover credit-card and  identity theft .  A group of 13 banks and credit-card issuers, including
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Capital One (COF)  ( Europe ) Plc and MBNA
Ltd. will fund the redress program, the Financial Conduct
Authority said in a statement today. The regulator didn’t
disclose the firms’ individual contributions.  Regulators said in November that  CPP Group Plc (CPP) , which
provided the insurance for the lenders, overstated the risks and
consequences of identity theft and failed to tell buyers of its
card-protection product that they were already covered for
losses of as much as 100,000 pounds by their banks. The
compensation adds to the 15.5 billion pounds Britain’s  banks 
have already set aside for customers who were wrongly sold
payment-protection insurance that they didn’t need.  “The involvement of the banks and credit-card issuers
reflects the fact that they introduced customers to CPP’s
products and so must share responsibility for putting things
right,” the FCA said in the statement.  About seven million customers who bought the insurance
since 2005 will be able to claim a refund on the premiums they
paid plus 8 percent interest, the London-based FCA said. The
money is expected to be paid in early 2014.  Barclays Costs?  Banks sold the insurance under names such as HSBC Card
Guard, Barclays Cardholder Protection and NatWest Card
Protection. Typically, CPP’s card protection cost about 30
pounds a year and identity protection 80 pounds, the FCA said.  Barclays may have to pay 286 million pounds, more than any
other U.K. bank, because it has the largest share of the credit
card market,  Mark Phin , an analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods
Ltd., said in a note to clients today. Barclays, HSBC, RBS and
Lloyds may have to pay a combined 650 million pounds, he said.
Lloyds’s costs may be as little as 52 million pounds, he added.  “This is clearly unhelpful,” London-based Phin said.
“But it’s small in isolation and we fully expect that some
provisions will have been taken by the banks already.”  CPP’s customers will have to vote to approve the program
and seek court approval before payments can start, the FCA said.
The York, England-based company agreed to repay customers about
14.5 million pounds and pay a fine of 10.5 million pounds last
year. CPP said today it will only be responsible for funding
compensation for customers to whom it sold insurance directly.  Shares Fall  The insurer’s shares fell as much as 26 percent in London
trading today and were down 19.8 percent at 16.25 pence as of
10:42 a.m., for a market value of about 28 million pounds. The
FTSE 350 Banks Index was up 1.2 percent to 4,923.99.  “We are determined to put things right for Barclays
customers who are eligible for redress payments as swiftly as
possible,” Paul Maddox, Barclays’s managing director for
 customer service , said in a statement.  RBS and Lloyds said in separate statements they will work
with CPP to achieve “the best outcome” for customers affected.
Officials at HSBC declined to comment.  Following is a list of banks that have agreed to provide
the compensation:  Source: FCA statement  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  