-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Climb as Fed Minutes Support Stimulus Cuts
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-08-21T22:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-climb-before-fed-meeting-minutes.html
The cost to protect against losses
on corporate bonds rose as minutes of the Federal Reserve’s last
meeting showed policy makers were “broadly comfortable” with
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to start reducing bond buying
later this year if the economy improves.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 2.2 basis
points to a mid-price of 84.4 basis points as of 6:02 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Signs the  U.S. economy  is firming have been contributing to
speculation the Fed will scale back its bond purchases that have
supported credit markets. The Federal Open Market Committee
minutes from July’s gathering showed policy makers on course to
trim the central bank’s asset-buying program, known as
quantitative easing, later this year.  “The Fed appeared comfortable with its forecasts and the
ability of rising stock market prices to overcome the de facto
tightening that followed its early summer QE3 announcements,”
 Jim Vogel , the head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee , said in an e-mail.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, increased 6.1 basis
points last week, the largest advance since the period ended
June 21.  ‘Almost All’  “Almost all committee members agreed that a change in the
purchase program was not yet appropriate,” and a few said “it
might soon be time to slow somewhat the pace of purchases as
outlined in that plan,” according to the record of the FOMC’s
July 30-31 gathering released today in  Washington .  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Swaps tied to Staples Inc. increased by the most since
September as the world’s largest office-supplies chain cut its
annual profit forecast because of declines in its retail and
international business. The contracts added 22 basis points to a
mid-price of 176 basis points, CMA data show.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, added 9.5 basis points to 414, Bloomberg prices show.  ‘Imminent Tapering’  Southern Co. sold $500 million of 2.45 percent, five-year
senior notes in an offering increased from $400 million that
priced to yield 93 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds will be used for
paying existing debt and general corporate purposes.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries narrowed 0.8 basis point to 130.6
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt decreased 4.8 to 570.2.  The U.S. distress ratio fell to 6 percent through Aug. 13,
with the number of distressed issuers climbing to 74 from 73 as
of July 15, according to a report today by Standard & Poor’s
Global Fixed Income Research. The number of issues trading with
a spread over Treasuries of 1,000 basis points or more increased
to 103 from 101 a month earlier.  “The imminent tapering of stimulus by the  Federal Reserve 
led to a rise in corporate spreads earlier this year, which took
the distress ratio higher,” S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  