-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Aug. 16 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2013-08-21T14:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-aug-16-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged over 15.8 million
barrels per day during the week ending August 16, 2013, 234
thousand barrels per day above the previous week’s average.
Refineries operated at 91.0 percent of their operable capacity
last week. Gasoline production increased last week, averaging
over 9.4 million barrels per day. Distillate fuel production
increased last week, averaging 4.9 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged about 8.0 million barrels per
day last week, up by 34 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports
averaged just under 8.0 million barrels per day, 501 thousand
barrels per day below the same four-week period last year. Total
motor gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and
gasoline blending components) last week averaged 373 thousand
barrels per day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 101 thousand
barrels per day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 1.4 million barrels
from the previous week. At 359.1 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are near the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by
4.0 million barrels last week and are in the upper half of the
average range. Both finished gasoline inventories and blending
components inventories decreased last week. Distillate fuel
inventories increased by 0.9 million barrels last week but are
near the lower limit of the average range for this time of year.
Propane/propylene inventories remained unchanged from last week
and are in the middle of the average range. Total commercial
petroleum inventories decreased by 2.8 million barrels last
week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period averaged
over 19.4 million barrels per day, up by 1.2 percent from the
same period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor gasoline
product supplied averaged 9.2 million barrels per day, up by 2.0
percent from the same period last year. Distillate fuel product
supplied averaged about 3.8 million barrels per day over the
last four weeks, up by 2.8 percent from the same period last
year. Jet fuel product supplied is 2.8 percent higher over the
last four weeks compared to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  