-- Ubisoft Sees Strong Games Demand on New Microsoft, Sony Consoles
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-08-21T11:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/ubisoft-sees-strong-games-demand-on-new-microsoft-sony-consoles.html
Ubisoft Entertainment SA (UBI)  is seeing
“very strong” orders for its “Watch Dogs” video game and a
new version of “Assassin’s Creed” as console makers prepare to
ship new-generation machines in time for Christmas.  “There’s a thirst for new products among our clients,”
Chief Executive Officer Yves Guillemot said in an interview at
the Gamescom trade fair in Cologne today. “It’s been a very
long time since the last generation of consoles was released --
there’s very strong built-up appetite that transforms very
quickly into preorders. And we haven’t seen the end of it.”  Sony Corp. (6758)  will start selling the PlayStation 4, its first
new console in seven years, in  North America  on Nov. 15 and in
 Europe  on Nov. 29 and in 32 countries for the year-end holiday
season, Sony Computer Entertainment CEO Andrew House said
yesterday. Orders already top 1 million.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  will
release its Xbox One console in November in 13 countries.  “In the gaming industry, new consoles are an opportunity
to reshuffle the cards,” Guillemot said. “That’s when market
share changes are potentially the biggest. We want to use this
time to launch or relaunch our brands. With each generation we
try to climb up a step and grab a few more points of market
share.”  Increased Promotion  The introduction of new consoles will probably spark
consumer appetite and set the video-games market up for a new
growth cycle, according to a note from Richard Beaudoux, a
Paris-based analyst at Natixis Securities.  “Console manufacturers help promote games to sell their
consoles,” Guillemot said. “That can double the firepower when
we’re promoting a game.”  In their first year, the new generation of consoles will
sell about 10 million to 15 million units, Guillemot estimated.
Montreuil-Sous-Bois, France-based Ubisoft’s forecasts for its
business in the second quarter and full year are unchanged.  “Assassin’s Creed IV Black Flag,” an adventure game, will
be released at the end of October, and vigilante game “Watch
Dogs” will follow at the end of November.  Ubisoft shares rose 1.1 percent to 11.75 euros at 1:06 p.m.
in Paris, taking the advance to 49 percent this year and giving
the company a market value of 1.1 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  