-- Mugabe Swearing In Completes Zimbabwe President Comeback
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-08-22T12:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/mugabe-swearing-in-completes-zimbabwe-president-comeback.html
Five years after standing on the
brink of electoral defeat, Zimbabwean President  Robert Mugabe 
was inaugurated to extend his 33-year rule with renewed power at
home and acceptance from neighboring countries.  Mugabe, 89, was sworn in today by Chief Justice Godfrey Chidyausiku at the 60,000-seat national stadium in Harare, the
capital. Mugabe won last month’s vote with 61 percent in the
presidential race and his Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front secured a two-thirds parliamentary majority in
elections that his rival  Morgan Tsvangirai  said were rigged. The
15-nation  Southern African Development Community  last week chose
Mugabe to be its next chairman.  “His tail is up and he’s walking with a definite spring in
his step,” Eldred Masunungure, a University of Zimbabwe
political analyst, said in an Aug. 19 interview in Harare, the
capital. “He has emerged stronger, either by foul or fair play,
because it was a landslide victory.”  Mugabe, using the powers of state, vocal support from the
security forces and a well organized campaign by Zanu-PF,
reversed his losing position from the 2008 elections. Then,
Tsvangirai was leading after the first-round ballot and Zanu-PF
lost its parliamentary majority to the Movement for Democratic
Change for the first time since independence from the U.K. in
1980.  African Leaders  “Zimbabwe will never be a colony again,” read a poster at
the stadium. The ceremony was attended by the leaders of the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo,  Equatorial Guinea ,  Mozambique ,
 Namibia  and Tanzania, as well as South African Vice President
 Kgalema Motlanthe  and Chinese Minister of Civil Affairs Li
Liguo.  While most African nations endorsed the July 31 vote, the
U.S., the U.K. and domestic monitors said irregularities
compromised the fairness of the elections.  “We have had free elections,” Mugabe said after being
sworn in for a five-year term. “As for those odd Western
countries who happen to hold a different, negative view of our
electoral process and outcome, well there is nothing we can do
about them. We dismiss them as vile ones whose moral turpitude
we must mourn.”  Since his election victory, Mugabe pledged to press ahead
with an indigenization policy to give black Zimbabweans control
of the economy. The southern African nation holds the world’s
second-biggest platinum and chrome reserves, as well as diamond,
gold and coal deposits.  “The time has come for us to extend our dominion to all
those resources which the Almighty has been generous to give,”
Mugabe said.  Indigenization Policy  Mugabe is forcing mining companies such as  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  and banks
including the units of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) 
to cede majority stakes in their local assets to black
Zimbabweans or the government.  In the  mining industry  “our policy reflexes must be
oriented towards goals of indigenization,” Mugabe said today.
“Where we can, we go it alone.”  In 2000, Mugabe started a program of confiscating white-owned farms that sparked a decade-long crisis in which the
economy contracted 39 percent and inflation soared to an
estimated 500 billion percent, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  During the past four years of a coalition government, the
authorities abolished the Zimbabwe dollar and legalized the use
of several currencies, including the  U.S. dollar  and the South
African rand. That helped to bring inflation down to single
digits.  Economic Challenge  While the economy has expanded in the past four years, it
remains fragile. Growth is set to slow to 3.4 percent this year
from 5 percent in 2012 after commodity prices fell, according to
outgoing Finance Minister  Tendai Biti , who is also secretary-general of the MDC.  “Politically Mugabe may have the game in his hand, but
economically he’s got a challenge ahead,” Trevor Maisiri, an
analyst with the Brussels-based  International Crisis Group , said
in an interview Aug. 20. “The economy is his enemy. It doesn’t
have enough capital to kick start its own revival, so he relies
on foreign direct investment.”  The  main stock index  has plunged 21 percent since the
election, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries on Aug. 2 asked
the government to cut taxes and mint local currency coins to
boost domestic consumption. Central bank Governor Gideon Gono on
Aug. 6 pledged to maintain the multi-currency system for the
“foreseeable future.”  Western Sanctions  There is no sign that the U.S. and the European Union,
which criticized the elections as flawed, will lift their
sanctions against Mugabe and his close associates. He blames the
U.S. and the EU for the country’s economic woes.  “Most likely we shall remain under these sanctions for
much longer,” Mugabe said today. “We have to raise ourselves
by our bootstraps. The mining sector will be the epicenter of
our economic growth and recovery.”  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said today in an e-mailed statement that he was “disappointed” SADC had endorsed
Mugabe’s victory. He cited “grave concerns” over the how the
election was conducted, including the electoral commission’s
failure to produce the voters’ roll, a large number of voters
being turned away and a high number of ballot papers being
printed.  Some Zimbabweans side with their president.  Mugabe “is the greatest leader we will ever have,” said
Tawanda Nyevero, a 43-year-old man who sells roofing material in
Harare’s Mbare market. “So the West and their local detractors
must stop snooping into our affairs. No other African leader
will take land from whites and give it to blacks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  