-- Unitech Corporate Parks Falls on Weakening Rupee: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-08-21T16:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/unitech-corporate-parks-falls-on-weakening-rupee-london-mover.html
Unitech Corporate Parks Plc (UCP)  had its
biggest two-day drop in three years as a sliding rupee may pare
earnings even after the owner of Indian office parks reported
gains in leased space, rental income and property values.  The shares fell 3.1 percent to 38.75 pence in  London ,
taking the two-day drop to 9.9 percent, the most since June
2010. The volume of shares traded was 37 percent more than the
three-month daily average.  The rupee fell to a record against the British pound today,
extending its slide this year to 11 percent.  India ’s economic
growth is at its lowest in a decade, Unitech said yesterday when
it published results for the year ended March 31.  “This will continue to affect our results expressed in
sterling,” the company said in the statement. “The reduced
rate of growth in the Indian economy does not directly affect
the company, and we do see modest improvement in the global
business sentiment.”  The amount of space leased rose 8.8 percent in the fiscal
year, while Unitech’s share of rental income increased 19
percent to 16.4 million pounds ($25.7 million) from a year
earlier. Net asset value rose 11 percent to 58 pence a share.  Unitech is in talks with two bidders for G2, its most
advanced office-park development, it said. The company is
considering how it can return cash to investors, probably in the
first half of next year, once the asset is sold.  Some of the proceeds may be deferred and Unitech may retain
some cash because selling its principal income-producing asset
will crimp its ability to borrow, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  