-- Turkish Stocks Drop Most in World as Lira Weakens on Rate Move
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-08-21T10:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/turkish-stocks-drop-most-in-world-as-lira-weakens-on-rate-move.html
Turkish stocks fell the most in the
world as the lira weakened and bonds dropped after the central
bank kept its benchmark unchanged yesterday, spurring bets the
regulator isn’t doing enough to support the currency.  The  Borsa Istanbul National 100 (XU100)  index retreated 2 percent
to 70,763.07 at the 12:30 p.m. midday break in Istanbul, heading
for the lowest close since June 24 and tumbling the most among
94 indexes tracked by Bloomberg. The lira depreciated 0.8
percent to 1.9650 a dollar, the most after  South Africa ’s rand
among emerging-market currencies in  Europe , the  Middle East  and
 Africa . Two-year benchmark  bond  yields rose to a six-week high.  All but 12 shares fell after the central bank refrained
from increasing the benchmark one-week repurchase rate and the
overnight borrowing rate from 4.5 percent and 3.5 percent,
respectively. The regulator raised the  overnight lending rate  by
50 basis points to 7.75 percent, as economists including Ahmet Akarli of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the move was unlikely to
shore up markets as the use of that rate is limited.  “The market may want to force the central bank’s hand to
raise the benchmark rate, with the lira among the worst-performing emerging-market currencies today,” Isik Okte, a
strategist at state-run  Turkiye Halk (HALKB)  Bankasi AS’s investment
unit in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “Higher rates mean
lower share prices for banks.”  Tougher Rules  The 16-member  banks index  tumbled 2.4 percent, poised for
the lowest close in more than a year. State-run Turkiye Halk
dropped 3.2 percent to the lowest since July 2012.  Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  slumped 2.7 percent and  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  fell 1.4
percent.  The Ankara-based Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency
announced draft rules to rein in loan growth on Aug. 16, aimed
at controlling the increase in consumer loans and encouraging
savings. Under the rules, consumer overdraft accounts and credit
card loans would be treated as consumer loans and therefore
subject to general provisioning regulations.  Turkey’s two-year bond yield advanced 15 basis points, or
0.15 percentage point, to 9.51 percent, the highest level on a
closing basis since July 11. The nation’s benchmark equity index
has dropped 9.5 percent this year, compared with a decline of 12
percent for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  “Rising interest rates across the world create an
unfriendly environment for stocks,” Tunc Obuter, the head of
trading at Garanti Investment in Istanbul, said in e-mailed
comments. An “unsatisfactory” central bank decision and new
rules on credit have resulted in a “negative decoupling” for
Turkish stocks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  