-- VeriSign Profiting From .Com Slows Addition of New Names
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-08-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/verisign-profiting-from-com-slows-addition-of-new-names.html
The biggest expansion of Internet
addresses is being delayed as  VeriSign Inc. (VRSN) , which gets most of
its revenue from managing .com websites, argues with competitors
over whether corporate networks could be disrupted.  The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers,
the non-profit that manages the Web, has proposed holding on to
new names to the right of the dot, known as domains, for up to
10 months after listening to security warnings from VeriSign and
its own advisory panel.  Some companies that bid for domains such as .blog, .mail
and .corp say the security issues are a ruse by VeriSign to
protect its management of 121 million .com and .net addresses.  “This is an odd thing, at the eleventh hour and 59th
minute of a 10-year program, to suddenly say, ‘Stuff’s going to
break,’” said  Richard Tindal , chief operating officer of Web-registry Donuts Inc., which applied for 307 domain names.  “They’ve made a corporate decision to try to limit
competition by trying either to slow down or stop this
program,” said Tindal, whose closely held company is based in
Bellevue,  Washington .  Icann’s proposed Web expansion, which has been in  progress
 for 13 years, could add more than 1,300 new so-called domains to
an Internet with about two dozen today. A domain name can spawn
millions of website addresses, which are sold and managed by
companies including VeriSign.  Web’s Midwife  VeriSign’s stance is important because of its role as
midwife at the birth of new names. Under an  agreement  with the
U.S. government, VeriSign performs the technical task of
entering new address names into a central Internet directory.  The new domains could clash with longstanding naming
conventions used by corporate systems administrators that place
terms such as .corp, .home and .mail in file names in internal
networks, said Nao Matsukata, chief executive officer of
Fairwinds Partners LLC, a Washington-based Internet consultant.  If the addresses become part of the public Web lexicon,
people searching for addresses may mistakenly be directed into
private networks, potentially leaving them vulnerable, Matsukata
said.  “We’re not really sure what the magnitude of the problem
could be, or how deep the problem may be,” Matsukata said in an
interview.  VeriSign has told Icann and the U.S. government the
vulnerabilities are serious enough to warrant delaying the
program. The flowering of names is intended to  spur competition 
among services like VeriSign that register new Web entries and
ensure a wider variety of names are available to Internet users.  Cash Cow  “It is awkward at this point to have to step back and
address these, but we can’t not address these,” Danny McPherson, chief security officer for VeriSign, said in an
interview. “If we break peoples’ networks or we don’t forewarn
them and give them time to fix their networks, then we’re acting
irresponsibly.”  About 83 percent of VeriSign’s $874 million in revenue last
year came from administering .com addresses, Todd Weller, an
analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said in an 
interview. The .com addresses will continue throwing off cash 
even if new Web names are introduced, he said.  “For a long time that’s going to continue to be the
premium domain space -- it’s just what we’re used to,” Weller
said.  New names aren’t a threat to VeriSign’s existing business,
chief executive officer and founder D. James Bidzos said at a
conference in May. The company based in Reston,  Virginia , has
applied for 14 new domain names itself, and more than 200
customers want VeriSign to administer their new name, he said.  “I think it will create a larger market,” Bidzos said,
according to an event transcript.  Not New  Icann on Aug. 5 proposed indefinitely withholding .corp and
.home. It also called for holding one-fifth of new names for
study to see if they might wreak havoc in corporate networks.
Delays could reach seven to 10 months. Names judged less risky
face a delay of 120 days.  “We’re taking this slow because we’re being cautious,”
Jim Trengrove, a spokesman for the Los Angeles-based group, said
in an interview.  Companies applying to own and administer the new domains,
such as  Neustar Inc. (NSR) , object.  “This is not a new issue and Icann’s proposed approach
seems to ignore the fact that mitigation” of the problem is
under way, Becky Burr, deputy general counsel for Sterling,
Virginia-based Neustar, said in an e-mail.  ‘Very Surprised’  The 20 percent of names facing the longest waits don’t pose
any danger “and should therefore proceed unhindered,” a names-applicant group with members including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , said in a comment submitted Aug. 5.  “If there are real reasons to slow it down, we’d all agree
with that,” Tim Switzer, chairman of the group, said in an
interview.  An official of the National Telecommunications and
Information Administration, the U.S. Commerce Department arm
responsible for Internet management contracts, said this month
she was “very surprised” by VeriSign’s warnings about security
vulnerabilities.  The agency “fully expects” VeriSign to process requests
to add names, Vernita Harris, deputy associate administrator,
said in an Aug. 2 letter.  Go-Slow Approach  VeriSign’s go-slow approach and Icann’s endorsement of it
is  backed  by the Association of National Advertisers, a New
York-based trade group representing more than 500 companies with
10,000 brands.  The advertisers’ group has objected to the Web expansion,
saying brand owners will be forced to defensively register huge
numbers of possible website address combinations that include
their trademarks to prevent cybersquatters from claiming and
misusing them.  “We want the Internet to be considered a safe marketing
venue,”  Dan Jaffe, group executive vice president, said in an
interview.  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  unit PayPal is “very pleased” by Icann’s
stance, Bill Smith, senior security policy adviser with the
online payment service, said in an interview.  “The action they’re taking will mitigate risk,” Smith
said. “We’re confident that the right thing is being done
here.” PayPal’s interest lies in ensuring a reliable Web, Smith
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  