-- Vestas Replaces CEO With Runevad as Losses Widen
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-08-21T15:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/vestas-replaces-ceo-with-runevad-as-losses-widen.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the Danish
turbine maker that’s been unprofitable for two years, replaced
its chief executive officer after a worse-than-expected loss.  Anders Runevad, from Ericsson AB, will take over on Sept.
1 from Ditlev Engel, who has been at Vestas since 2005, the
turbine maker said. Its two-year turnaround program “continues
according to plan” even as second-quarter margins narrowed.
Vestas rose the most in three months in Copenhagen trading.  “It is now the appropriate time to make this change,”
Chairman Bert Nordberg said today in a statement. “The company
is now entering a new phase where we want to realize our growth
potential. The restructuring program has resulted in a more
competitive company.” Nordberg, who took up his post last year,
was previously an employee of Ericsson’s former Sony Ericsson
venture, where Runevad worked from 2006 through 2010.  Vestas, after eight quarters of  losses , has just over four
months to complete its program seeking to lower fixed costs by
400 million euros ($535 million), including a 30 percent cut in
its staff to 16,000. The company lost 62 million euros in the
second quarter, compared with the average estimate for a 9
million-euro loss among six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  It reported an 8 million-euro loss a year earlier.  Revenue Decline  Vestas closed up 5.4 percent at 109 kroner, the biggest
gain in four weeks in Copenhagen trading. The price is still
less than a sixth of the intraday record 700 kroner reached in
2008. Vestas revised earnings forecasts in 2010 and 2011 before
renegotiating loan facilities last year.  The board agreed to replace Engel at a meeting yesterday,
Nordberg said today on a call with journalists and analysts.
Chief Financial Officer Marika Fredriksson will take charge of
the business until Runevad assumes control on Sept. 1, he said.  “As the industry is maturing and the competition is
becoming more and more intense, there is a need to ensure we
have the right competences,” Chief Marketing Officer Morten Albaek said by phone. “There’s a difference in the business of
wind in 2013 and the wind business five to 10 years ago.”  The company’s sales declined by 26 percent to 1.2 billion
euros in the latest quarter, and the company had an operating
margin of 1 percent. It revised a forecast of free  cash flow  for
the year from “positive” to 200 million euros.  Prices Stabilizing  Orders rose 74 percent in the quarter to 1,641 megawatts,
bringing the year’s total to 2,285 megawatts. The order backlog
now totals 13 billion euros, including 5.9 billion euros in
servicing contracts.  Wind turbine prices are “stabilizing,” Fredriksson said
on the call. Vestas will take its “fair share” of orders in
the U.S., where it sees a second-half pickup, Albaek said.  The U.S. market slowed after a tax credit was allowed to
expire at the end of last year. While it was unexpectedly
renewed on Jan. 1, developers had already rushed projects to
completion, leaving fewer in the pipeline. The extended credit
applies to new projects where construction has begun by Dec. 31.  Vestas no longer plans to sell a tower factory in Pueblo,
 Colorado , that it expects to operate at full capacity next year.  Machining and casting plants are still for sale, and the
manufacturer lowered their valuation by 42 million euros
following talks with potential buyers.  Development of the V164 8-megawatt offshore wind turbine is
going according to plan, the company said. Nordberg declined to
comment on discussions over a partnership with  Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7011)  that it announced in August 2012, beyond saying
Vestas would release a statement should those talks end.  Industry Recovery  Europe ’s turbine makers are recovering after overcapacity
and growing competition crimped margins and eroded profits.
Shares in Vestas, Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA and  Nordex SE (NDX1) 
rebounded this year after they cut jobs and shut factories.  Now there is “clear long term value” in Vestas shares,
Sean McLoughlin, a clean-energy analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc,
said in a note to investors on July 30. “Vestas is ideally
positioned to benefit from global wind demand growth.”  Vestas today retained full-year guidance for 2013 shipments
of 4,000 megawatts to 5,000 megawatts, down from 6,200 megawatts
in 2012. It maintained a forecast for a drop in revenue to 5.5
billion euros from 7.2 billion euros and sees a margin before
interest, tax and special items of “at least” 1 percent.  The number of employees stands at 17,253, with more than
1,000 jobs still to be cut by the end of the year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  