-- VTB Halts Mozambique Sovereign Debt Plan After Clashes
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-08-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/vtb-halts-mozambique-sovereign-debt-plan-after-clashes.html
Rebel clashes with government forces
in  Mozambique  has prompted VTB Group,  Russia ’s second-largest
bank, to halt a proposed sovereign debt transaction in the
country.  Rebels tied to the opposition Mozambique National
Resistance party, known as Renamo, said they killed 36 soldiers
in a clash earlier this month, a claim refuted by the
government, which said only two people died. Renamo, which
fought a 15-year civil war against the ruling Frelimo party
until 1992, this year attacked arms depots and buses in central
Mozambique, forcing the closure of rail lines used by coal mines
owned by  Rio Tinto Plc. (RIO)   “The situation has changed. In past years there was like a
silent agreement” between Renamo and Frelimo, Amilcar Barros, a
director of VTB’s African unit, said in an interview yesterday
in his offices in Luanda, Angola’s capital. “The political
risks have increased significantly. I think there’s a lot of
people reconsidering.”  VTB, which is based in Moscow, was considering a
transaction with the government tied to infrastructure
development in Mozambique, site of the world’s largest discovery
of natural gas in the past decade, Barros said, declining to be
more specific.  The bank, which bases its African operation in Angola,
Africa’s largest crude oil producer behind  Nigeria , is
considering oil and gas investment in both nations as well as
 Uganda , Barros said. A ports project in  Namibia  was also
assessed.  Kwanza River  A hydroelectric dam project on the Kwanza River in  Angola 
is being evaluated as well as companies in the country that are
transforming from importers to light industrial producers, he
said.  “Made in Angola is now a slogan,” Igor Skvortsov,
Chairman of VTB’s African unit, said in the same interview.
Angola is “attractive because now we have transparent rules of
investment regulated by government, the central bank and the
foreign investment agency, Anip. It’s not easy, but it’s
absolutely doable.”  VTB is looking to conclude a transaction with the Angolan
government similar to the $1 billion line of credit issued a
year ago, Skvortsov said, declining to be more specific because
negotiations are at an early stage.  The company is considering corporate bond opportunities in
the nation as early as next year in industries such as oil and
gas and telecommunications, Barros said.  Consolidation will occur among Angola’s banks over the next
five to 10 years, while VTB is not considering acquisitions,
Barros said.  “Twenty-three banks all want to play in the same space,”
Barros said. “There’s a bit of congestion.”  VTB’s chief competitors in Angola are  South Africa ’s
 Standard Bank Group (SBK)  and Banco Angolano de Investimentos, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  