-- Watson’s 176 Puts Australia in Control of Ashes Cricket Finale
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-08-21T23:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/watson-s-176-gives-australia-control-of-last-ashes-cricket-test.html
Shane Watson’s first Test cricket
century in 48 innings put  Australia  in control on day one of the
Ashes series finale against England.  Watson, who scored 216 runs in the previous eight innings
in the best-of-five contest, dominated England’s bowling attack
yesterday to achieve his highest Test score and third hundred
overall. Steven Smith was unbeaten on 66 and Peter Siddle not
out 18 as the visiting team reached 307-4 by the close of play
at the Oval in London.  Batting at No. 3, his fourth different position of the
series, Watson said this has been his toughest tour mentally.  “I’ve had to have a deep look at myself a number of
times,” he told Sky Sports. “I’ve been working hard on the
technical side of my batting.”  England, seeking its first 4-0 series victory against its
oldest rival, struggled to contain Australia after captain
 Michael Clarke  won the toss and elected to bat. Watson’s quick
scoring took the total to 112-1 in the morning session after
 David Warner  was caught behind off James Anderson for six.  England dismissed Chris Rogers for 23 and Clarke for seven
after lunch, though couldn’t get any momentum, with captain
Alastair Cook dropping Watson on 104.  In the final session, Australia added another 124 runs for
the loss of only one wicket as Watson and Smith pushed their
partnership to 145. Watson’s innings ended when he was caught by
a diving  Kevin Pietersen  at fine leg to give  Stuart Broad  his
only wicket of the day.  England spinner Simon Kerrigan had a disappointing Test
debut, ending day one with 0-53 in eight overs.  Chris Woakes ,
also making his debut, almost claimed his first Test wicket when
Watson was given out leg before wicket on 166. The Australian,
out lbw four times in the series, called for a review and the
umpire was overruled.  Anderson’s dismissal of Clarke, his 326th in Tests, took
the fast bowler above  Bob Willis  to become England’s second-highest wicket-taker of all time, behind Ian Botham.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried in London at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  