-- What Can China Learn From Unrest in Egypt?
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-08-21T00:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/what-can-china-learn-from-unrest-in-egypt-.html
Images of Egyptian  security forces 
cracking down on protestors have provoked strong emotions in
 China . Last week, during heated fighting, discussion of the
violent sweep was at the top of trending-topic lists on
microblogs and search engines, while newspaper editorialists,
bloggers and commentators offered a range of opinions that
converged on one idea: Don’t let this happen in China.  That shouldn’t be a surprise. While some commentators
outside the country  focused  on  direct comparisons  between China
and Egypt, that conversation didn’t have much currency in China,
where questions about stability prevailed instead.  “ Stability maintenance ” has long been a priority of the
Communist Party, which spends the equivalent of  billions of
dollars  each year on it. This can be ascribed in part to self-preservation by an unpopular government that faces, by its own
account, tens of thousands of “ mass incidents ” -- riots,
protests and other incidents of unrest -- each year, many of
which are small and pose little threat to anyone but local
officials.  Yet self-preservation isn’t the only explanation. China’s
modern history until the late 1970s was marked by war,
revolution, famine, the Cultural Revolution and other tragedies
that impressed upon the ruling party and its subjects an
appreciation for stability, even at the cost of personal and
political freedom. Likewise, the material gains enjoyed by
China’s middle class are substantial enough that many would
probably think twice before rushing to the barricades at the
risk of diminishing their ever-rising home values.  Take Kai-Fu Lee, the former president of Google China and a
prominent liberal, reformist voice on Sina Weibo, China’s most
popular microblogging service; he’s certainly nobody’s patsy,
especially the Communist Party’s. On Sunday, discussing an
interview he did with a Chinese magazine, he  tweeted  his modest,
personal expectations for Chinese political reform -- which he
didn’t explicitly connect to  Egypt , although many people who
left comments did. Lee wrote: “Like most people, I expect
peaceful reform and progress, and I am not willing to see
turbulence.” If competent individuals can be entrusted to manage
the reform, and if addressing corruption and environmental
degradation are at the top of the agenda, Lee then counsels
“patience.”  For those who think of China’s political-reform movement in
terms akin to the Tiananmen Square protestors of 1989 and
Egypt’s current demonstrators, patience may seem to equal
cowardice. But Lee’s desire for a peaceful evolution in China is
mainstream and in line with the long-time rhetoric (if not the
intentions) of China’s rulers. Indeed, over the last days of
Egyptian upheaval, most of the party-authorized voices
commenting on the events have emphasized -- almost always
implicitly -- the lessons that China might learn from such
events.  On Friday,  Mao Xiaogang , a columnist at the centrist,
Communist Party-owned Beijing Times newspaper,  wrote a piece 
ostensibly about Egypt. And yet seemingly tucked within it was
his espousal of the Communist Party’s longtime justification for
its emphasis on stability preservation: sustained economic
growth. “Without social stability it’s impossible for a country
to develop its economy and its people to live in peace and
contentment,” he wrote. “The words ‘Maintaining stability is a
top priority’ aren’t empty. The status quo in Egypt makes people
realize the value of stability.”  People’s Daily, the Communist Party’s official mouthpiece,
offered its own stability-favoring argument in a Monday
 editorial  with the headline “Stability, the Correct Choice for
Egypt.” The piece opines in terms understandable to any Chinese
familiar with the party’s rhetoric over the decades: “Mubarak’s
fall and the subsequent turmoil are a reminder that a falling
boulder accelerates and anything can happen in a country that
loses order.”  The problem is that most Chinese have a different
definition of what constitutes “losing order” than those who
have assigned themselves the job of maintaining stability. What
seems a generally harmless protest to some may from the
Communist Party’s perspective look like a boulder starting to
roll.  To China’s online masses, there’s a fairly broad consensus
on what’s not a threat: namely, the kinds of peaceful protests
that occasionally happen in  Taiwan , where protest is tolerated.
In early August, a massive  Taiwanese protest  over a young
conscript’s death during his military service caught the
 attention of Chinese microbloggers , who sent it to the top of
trending-topic lists through a combination of sympathy for the
cause and genuine irritation that their Taiwanese compatriots
can protest in large numbers, and they can’t. When news broke
over the weekend that Taiwanese  were protesting  housing
demolitions and development projects by the government -- a
common problem in China -- approving messages  again proliferated 
(though, in this case, the topic didn’t trend). On Monday, one
cheeky Weibo user posted an image of the Egyptian protests and  a
message  suggesting that the protests in Taipei “deserve our
study.”  Such protests would not be allowed in mainland China,
despite the fact that news of them is widely disseminated
(perhaps out of a naive belief by China’s propagandists that
Taiwanese protests undermine the case for Taiwanese democracy).
This brings up a question uncomfortable to both the rulers and
the ruled: Why can the Taiwanese be trusted to protest -- and
maintain their stability -- and we can’t?  On Tuesday, Ding Long, an associate professor at Beijing’s
University of International Business and Economics, gave  an
answer  in People’s Daily. He refers to young democracies as
“preemies,” suggesting that they were born before they’d
developed socially and economically. Egypt and other Middle
Eastern countries are mentioned. China isn’t, but it certainly
seems to lurk behind the shadows: “Democratization requires a
‘preparation period.’  Developing countries  should focus on
economic development at that stage, cultivating economic
strength and social organizations in favor of democracy and
civil society that are essential for democracy to take root.”  As agitprop designed to please a stability-conscious
Communist Party, this is a refined opinion. As propaganda
directed at a stability-conscious Chinese public, the sentiments
-- and the use of “preemie,” in particular -- may be seen as
condescending. That’s a wide gap, but for now it’s pretty
certain that China will not become the next Egypt anytime soon.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net  