-- Woodside Awaits Israel Court Decision Before Completing Gas Deal
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-08-21T05:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/woodside-awaits-israel-court-decision-before-completing-gas-deal.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s
second-biggest oil producer, is waiting for an Israeli court
decision later this year before completing a deal to invest in
the Leviathan natural gas project.  Israeli’s high court is expected Sept. 17 to consider
whether the cabinet’s gas export plan, which affects the
Leviathan project, needs to be approved by the parliament,
Woodside Chief Executive Officer Peter Coleman told analysts
today on a call. A court decision after the hearing is expected
in the second half of 2013, he said.  “We are prepared to be patient and work through any
outstanding issues with the Leviathan joint venture to finalize
this deal,” Coleman said after the company posted an 8 percent
gain in first-half profit. Woodside hopes the high court ruling
will give the company “clarity” on gas exports, he said.  Woodside, operator of the Pluto liquefied natural gas
project in  Australia , agreed in December to pay as much as $2.3
billion for a stake in  Israel ’s largest natural gas field to tap
both the domestic and export markets. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in June Israel will cap exports of its natural
gas resources at 40 percent, less than the 50 percent
recommended last year by a government committee.  The Israeli government’s policy allows 50 percent of the
Leviathan gas to be exported, Coleman said.  Floating LNG  Proposed limits to exports have increased speculation
Woodside will withdraw from the Leviathan deal. The Australian
energy company may back out, freeing up as much as $1 billion to
return to investors, Deutsche Bank AG said last month.  Woodside agreed to make an initial payment of $696 million
to the project partners  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) , Delek Drilling LP,
 Avner Oil Exploration LLP (AVNRL)  and Ratio Oil Exploration (1992) LP.
It also agreed to give the partners $200 million once laws
permitting LNG exports come into force and $350 million when a
final investment decision on an LNG project is made.  Woodside hasn’t had any discussions with its partners on
changing the “pricing structure” of the transaction, Coleman
said. Some have speculated the partners may favor sending gas to
countries by pipeline over LNG exports, Coleman said.  “We assign a low probability to those outcomes,” Coleman
said. “LNG is still the basis at this point in time.”  Shares of Woodside  dropped 2 percent to A$37.91 as of 3:21
p.m. Sydney time. The benchmark index rose 0.4 percent.  The court ruling, potential revisions to the terms of the
deal and the potential for gas to be sent by pipeline are among
“the many uncertainties,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said today in a report.  “We would not ultimately be disappointed if Woodside
walked away from this transaction,” Beveridge said.  Woodside also expects an investment decision in mid-2015 on
whether to go ahead with a plan to use  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s
floating LNG technology for the Browse project in Western
Australia, Coleman said today. Woodside expects the Browse
partners to approve its recommendation for floating LNG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  