-- Crude Falls as Fed Minutes Show Support for Tapering
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-08-21T20:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/wti-falls-to-one-week-low-amid-fed-speculation.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
dropped to the lowest level in almost two weeks after minutes of
the Federal Reserve’s July policy meeting signaled a likely
reduction in economic stimulus this year.  Futures fell 1.2 percent. The record of the July 30-31
session showed members of the Federal Open Market Committee were
“broadly comfortable” with Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s plan to
start curbing bond buying later this year if the economy
improves. A few said tapering might be needed soon. A government
report showed today that U.S. crude supplies fell by 1.43
million barrels. The spread between WTI and Brent crude traded
in  London  widened to near $6 for the first time since June.  “The FOMC minutes hammer home that a tapering of stimulus
is coming soon,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige
Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “The
likely reduction in bond purchases is very bearish.”  WTI crude for October delivery slid $1.26 to $103.85 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It was the lowest
settlement since Aug. 8. The volume of all futures traded was
5.7 percent below the 100-day average at 4:03 p.m.  Brent for October settlement dropped 34 cents, or 0.3
percent, to end the session at $109.81 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Trading of futures was 11
percent below the 100-day average. The European benchmark crude
closed at a $5.96 premium to WTI, the widest since June 26.  Fed Minutes  Speculation about the Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases has whipsawed the markets since May, when Bernanke
first indicated that policy makers might begin reducing the
stimulus this year if the job market continues to improve.  “The Fed comments are casting a shadow on most of the
commodity space, including oil,” said David McAlvany, chief
executive officer of McAlvany Financial Group in Durango,
 Colorado . “The market is down on expectations that some kind of
tapering is coming.”  WTI’s 2 percent slump yesterday was driven by reports that
the Seaway pipeline, which carries crude from Cushing,  Oklahoma ,
the delivery point for the U.S. benchmark grade, to refineries
on the Gulf Coast, was shut, according to Jim Ritterbusch,
president of Ritterbusch & Associates, a Galena, Illinois-based
consulting company.  Seaway Pipeline  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD) ’s Houston-based spokesman
 Rick Rainey  said today that the 400,000-barrel-a-day pipeline
was operating normally. Genscape Inc., a Louisville, Kentucky-based energy information company, said today that Seaway was
“essentially shut” for more than 12 hours yesterday after
decreased power demand was observed at all pumping stations.  The Hawthorn crude oil pipeline connecting a rail terminal
in Stroud, Oklahoma, to the Cushing supply depot restarted
yesterday after being shut down a year, research firm Genscape
reports. The link has a 90,000 barrel-a-day capacity.  Crude stockpiles at Cushing dropped 1.09 million barrels to
37.4 million last week, the least since March 2012, according to
the Energy Information Administration, the Energy Department’s
statistical unit. Supplies reached a record 51.9 million barrels
in the week ended Jan. 11.  Crude stockpiles slid to 359.1 million on Aug. 16, the
lowest level since the week ended Aug. 31, 2012. The decline
left supplies 0.5 percent lower than a year earlier, according
to the EIA. Inventories surged to 397.6 million on May 24, the
most since 1931.  “Crude inventories have declined a great deal this summer
but remain at relatively healthy levels,” said Adam Wise, who
helps manage a $6 billion oil and gas bond portfolio as a
managing director at Manulife Asset Management in  Boston .  Output Decline  U.S.  crude production  slipped 0.7 percent to 7.52 million
barrels a day from the highest level since 1989 the prior week.
Output has surged as the combination of horizontal drilling and
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has unlocked supplies trapped
in shale formations in the central part of the country.  Refineries operated  at 91 percent of capacity, up 1.6
percentage points from Aug. 9, the report showed. It was the
first gain in utilization in five weeks.  Gasoline stockpiles slid 4.03 million barrels to 218.4
million, the biggest decline since April 2012, according to the
EIA. Inventories of  distillate fuel , a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, rose 871,000 barrels to 129.4 million,
the highest level since February.  Libya prepared to open two oil ports. Zueitina and Hariga
are ready to resume exports, the Oil Ministry said yesterday.
The country pumped  800,000 barrels  a day of crude last month,
half the rate a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Brent Strength  Brent fell less than WTI because of unrest in  Egypt , said
Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in St. Louis, which oversees $1.6 billion. Former
President  Hosni Mubarak , who was ousted in 2011, was ordered
released from jail today, while authorities arrested more
Islamists as a crackdown on them widened.  “As long as the situation in Egypt is unsettled, Brent
will be stronger than WTI,” O’Grady said.  Egypt controls the Suez Canal and the Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, through which a combined 4.51 million barrels a day of
crude and refined products were shipped last year, the EIA said.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
October was 22.8 percent, up from 22.2 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 541,789
contracts as of 4:03 p.m. It totaled 783,613 contracts
yesterday, 21 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.84 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  