-- Zuckerberg Starts Group to Boost Web Access Around World
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-08-21T05:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-21/zuckerberg-starts-group-to-boost-web-access-around-world.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  is forming a group with other technology
companies to expand access to the Internet for the 5 billion
people who have yet to get online.  The new group, Internet.org, includes partnerships with
mobile-device makers  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , and
chipmaker Qualcomm Inc., Facebook said in a  statement  yesterday.
About one-third of the world’s population, or 2.7 billion people,
have access to the Internet, and the group will help those who
can’t afford to connect, it said.  “Everything Facebook has done has been about giving all
people around the world the power to connect,” Zuckerberg said.
“There are huge barriers in developing countries to connecting
and joining the knowledge economy. Internet.org brings together
a global partnership that will work to overcome these
challenges.”  The new group, which follows Facebook’s own efforts to
expand  Internet access  in emerging markets, intends to develop
projects and mobilize industry and governments to enable more
people to move online. Facebook, owner of the world’s largest
social-networking service, is looking for new ways to attract
more people to its service, which has more than 1.15 billion
users.  ‘Networked Society’  Other partners include Web-browsing company  Opera Software
ASA (OPERA)  and wireless telecommunications-equipment provider Ericsson
AB. The group will focus on three key areas for developing
countries, including making the Web affordable, using data more
efficiently and supporting the development of new business
models for improving access.  “We are committed to shaping the Networked Society --
where everyone and everything will be connected in real time,”
Ericsson CEO  Hans Vestberg  said in the statement. “We believe
affordable connectivity and Internet access improves people’s
lives.”  In a white paper released yesterday, Zuckerberg said the
“knowledge economy” is the future, and more people should be
able to join it with access to the Internet while still enabling
the industry to boost profits and build infrastructure.  “We believe it’s possible to sustainably provide free
access to basic Internet services in a way that enables everyone
with a phone to get on the Internet,” he wrote. “Today, the
global cost of delivering data is on the order of 100 times too
expensive for this to be economically feasible yet.”  Broader Issues  Already, the company has invested more than $1 billion to
get people in developing countries on the Web, and it plans to
do more, he said in the white paper.  Zuckerberg is expanding his influence into broader issues
beyond his day-to-day duties as CEO of the Menlo Park,
California-based company. In April, he announced the creation of
a group called Fwd.us to lobby for immigration changes in the
U.S. In February, he welcomed New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
to his California home for a political fundraiser.  The group announced today follows Facebook’s “Open
Compute” project, which seeks to expand access to energy-efficient hardware in corporate data centers.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  unveiled plans earlier this year to expand
Internet access through what it called “Project Loon.”  Google 
wants to use balloons traveling “on the edge of space” to
connect people in rural or remote areas of the world to the
Internet.  The Google move generated sharp comments from Bill Gates,
chairman of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , in an interview earlier this month
in Bloomberg Businessweek.  “When you’re dying of malaria, I suppose you’ll look up
and see that balloon, and I’m not sure how it’ll help you,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  