-- ‘Spider-Man’ Producers to Settle Taymor Suit, Filing Says
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-08-30T20:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/-spider-man-producers-to-settle-taymor-suit-filing-says.html
The producers of the Broadway
musical “Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark” and the show’s fired
director,  Julie Taymor , agreed to settle a lawsuit over
royalties and creative control, according to a court filing.  Terms of the agreement in principle weren’t disclosed in
the order filed today in  Manhattan  federal court.  Taymor, 59, was removed from the $75 million spectacle in
March 2011, after critics lambasted it during an extended 182-
performance preview period. She sued the producers in November,
saying they violated her intellectual-property rights by making
changes without her permission and didn’t pay royalties due her
as a co-book writer.  Dale Cendali , a lawyer for the lead producers,  Michael Cohl 
and Jeremiah Harris, declined to comment on the filing. Taymor’s
spokesman, Chris Kanarick, also declined to comment or provide
details of the proposed settlement.  In her complaint, Taymor said that as the musical’s co-
author she was owed guaranteed minimum royalties of $2,917.50 a
week.  The producers agreed in February to pay her director’s
royalties as part of a settlement with the  Stage Directors and
Choreographers Society .  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest had scheduled a trial
for January 2013. At a June hearing, lawyers debated how much of
Taymor’s 2004 2 1/2-page treatment for the show was original and
how much was derived from the “Spider-Man” comics introduced
in 1962. Comic book excerpts, scripts and financial papers have
been filed in court.  The case is Taymor v. 8 Legged Productions LLC, 11-cv-
08002, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in Manhattan federal court at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ,
Philip Boroff in New York at =2602 or
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  