-- Macy’s Judge Says He Will Deny Bid on Martha Stewart Pact
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-31T02:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/macy-s-judge-says-he-will-deny-bid-on-martha-stewart-pact-1-.html
A bid by Macy’s Inc. to stop  J.C.
Penney Co. (JCP)  from selling products designed by  Martha Stewart
Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  will be denied, a  New York  judge said
after a hearing.  Justice Jeffrey K. Oing in  Manhattan  today said he will
rule against Macy’s request for a preliminary injunction
blocking Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney from taking any steps
under an agreement reached with New York-based Martha Stewart
Living last year.  Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department-store chain,
sued Martha Stewart Living in January to stop it from executing
a sales agreement with J.C. Penney announced in December. Macy’s
claimed an exclusive right to sell Martha Stewart products in
categories including bedding and cookware.  Oing last month granted Cincinnati-based Macy’s a
preliminary injunction blocking  Martha Stewart  Living from
taking any steps under its agreement with the Texas retailer on
branded products in the exclusive product categories. Macy’s
this month filed a separate suit against J.C. Penney, seeking to
block it from taking any steps under the pact.  Oing today said he was going to deny the request for a
preliminary injunction against J.C. Penney, asserting that
Macy’s hadn’t proved it was likely to succeed on its claims of
tortious interference and unfair competition.  ‘Competitive Business’  “It’s one thing to enjoin” Martha Stewart Living, Oing
said. “That company is at the centerpiece of these actions.
It’s another for me to enjoin a retailer from doing business.
The retail business is a very competitive business.”  J.C. Penney in December acquired a 17 percent stake in
Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million as the U.S. department-
store chain seeks to revive sales with new mini-stores dedicated
to the home goods brand.  Martha Stewart Living last month said J.C. Penney agreed to
pay at least $282.9 million in sales commission over a 10-year
period under an amended agreement, a $110.5 million increase
from the terms disclosed in December. The amended pact also adds
new products.  “Because J.C. Penney committed to be bound by the
preliminary injunction issued by the court against Martha
Stewart Living Omnimedia on July 31, the court today declined to
issue an additional preliminary injunction against J.C.
Penney,” Macy’s said in a statement. “J.C. Penney has agreed
that it won’t sell Martha Stewart-branded merchandise in our
exclusive categories as long as the MSLO injunction is in
effect.”  J.C. Penney didn’t respond to multiple telephone inquiries
seeking comment on Oing’s decision.  Irreparable Harm  Theodore Grossman, an attorney with  Jones Day  in  Cleveland 
who is representing Macy’s, argued that the retailer will suffer
irreparable harm if J.C. Penney is allowed to continue working
under the contract with Martha Stewart Living.  “Macy’s made a huge investment and took a huge risk in
investing in Martha Stewart when it did,” Grossman said.  “Think of the Genius Bar at Apple stores,” Grossman said.
“That’s what they’re trying to create, a Martha Stewart bar at
J.C. Penney.”  J.C. Penney will abide by the preliminary injunction issued
last month and won’t sell Martha Stewart-branded products in the
exclusive product categories, said Mark Epstein, a lawyer for
the Texas retailer with Munger Tolles & Olson LLP.  ‘Little Frustrating’  “We’re not going to take a design from Macy’s, sand off
the mark and knock it off,” Epstein said.  The judge said it was a “little frustrating” that the
three companies, which he called “part of the fabric of this
country” can’t sit down and work out their issues.  “To have them go into this nasty fight right now is not a
good thing for the economy,” Oing said.  The case is  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. J.C. Penney Corp., 652861/2012,
New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan). The old case is Macy’s
Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012, New
York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  