-- Agency’s Las Vegas Bash Spurs Cutback in Government Conferences
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-08-30T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/agency-s-las-vegas-bash-spurs-cutback-in-government-conferences.html
U.S. government agencies have
canceled dozens of conferences and pared down other events
following a scandal over a General Services Administration bash
in  Las Vegas .  The Defense, Justice and Health and Human Services
departments are among those that have scrubbed or scaled back
conferences from resort cities such as  Orlando ,  Florida , to
 Washington  bedroom communities like Leesburg,  Virginia . The
spending is under scrutiny amid efforts to cut the  federal
budget  and the backlash against the GSA’s $823,000-plus event
featuring a clown, mind reader and bicycle-building exercise.  The downsizing threatens to pinch hotels, convention
centers and event planners that rely on the federal government’s
$15 billion in annual travel spending, including conferences,
said Roger Dow, chief executive officer of the U.S. Travel
Association, a Washington-based trade group. Since April, when
news of the GSA’s conference emerged, agencies have canceled at
least tens of millions of dollars in events, he said.  The government shouldn’t “cancel legitimate meetings that
need to take place just because a few people didn’t follow
guidelines that were already in place,” Dow said in a telephone
interview.  Kurt Krause, general manager of the National Conference
Center in Leesburg, about 40 miles west of Washington, estimates
he may lose $2.7 million this year in revenue from certain
government customers.  ‘No Spa’  Bookings by departments such as  Veterans Affairs , Defense
and Transportation slowed in April and stopped altogether in
May, he said.  Krause, also chairman of the Loudoun County Chamber of
Commerce, said he may have to fire some of his 300 employees. He
said he spent $75,000 on newspaper and radio advertisements to
speak out against new restrictions on agency travel, which he
says affect modest venues as well as the tourism hot spots that
attracted the GSA.  “There’s no resort, there’s no golf, there’s no spa.”
Krause said of his conference center. “All we do is provide the
environment for effective learning and training.”  Totals for the number and cost of canceled conferences
across the federal government weren’t available. Of the 10
biggest agencies contacted by  Bloomberg News , only two -- the
GSA and the Health and Human Services Department -- provided
figures.  Conference Cuts  The GSA alone scrapped 47 conferences under Acting
Administrator Dan Tangherlini, who replaced Martha Johnson in
April, spokesman Dan Cruz said. The cancellations helped lead to
“more than $11 million in projected savings,” he said in an e-
mail.  The health department hasn’t canceled any conferences since
April, agency spokesman  Bill Hall  said in an e-mail. Instead, it
has reviewed 75 planned conferences and anticipates saving $8.2
million this year and next by shortening events, decreasing the
number of attendees and increasing video conferencing, according
to  Moira Mack , a spokeswoman for the Office of Management and
Budget.  The health agency’s review followed a November 2011
executive order that led to $1.2 billion in travel and
conference savings that were identified by agencies, Mack said
in an e-mail. Of that, federal agencies already had found “over
$600 million in reduced costs” through March 31.  Las Vegas Event  On April 2, the GSA’s inspector general released its report
on the agency’s extravagant spending in Las Vegas in October
2010. At least a dozen employees and managers were fired or
placed on leave, and the case has been referred to the Justice
Department for potential criminal charges.  The OMB in May then directed agencies to cap conference
spending at $500,000 and cut travel budgets by 30 percent. The
rules are designed to produce hundreds of millions of dollars in
savings, OMB Acting Director Jeff Zients wrote in a May blog
post.  The scandal was “the catalyst” for many of the conference
cutbacks now rippling across federal agencies, according to
 Larry Allen , president of Allen Federal Business Partners, a
consulting company in McLean, Virginia.  “The needle on the pendulum never stops at halfway,” he
said in a telephone interview. “There is never such a thing as
an equal and proportional response to bad news.”  The Defense Department, the largest federal agency, has
canceled or cut back on several conferences in recent months.
One of them was the  Air Force ’s biggest information technology
conference, which had been scheduled this week in Montgomery,
 Alabama .  ‘Wasteful’ Appearance  The three-day event typically draws 5,000 to 6,000 people
from government, industry and academia, according to Jason
Bishop, a spokesman at Maxwell Air Force Base.  Driving the decision to cancel the tech conference were
concerns over the travel costs for government employees, which
totaled $1.4 million and may have appeared “wasteful” during a
time of budget constraint, Bishop said in a telephone interview.  The Pentagon also ditched its Procurement Conference and
Training Symposium, set for late May 2012 in Orlando. The
invitation-only event was expected to draw 1,600 participants
from the government and the private sectors, according to a
notice on the department’s website.  The Defense Department hasn’t gathered figures on its
canceled conferences, said Elizabeth Robbins, an agency
spokeswoman.  ‘Budget Constraints’  At the  Justice Department , officials decided to nix a
conference on sex-offender management set for this month in  New
Orleans , according to a notice on its website. It also canceled
another on crime research scheduled for June 2013, according to
agency spokeswoman Nanda Chitre.  The 2013 event was canceled “due to anticipated budget
constraints,” Chitre said. She said she couldn’t provide the
number of canceled events.  The Department of Veterans Affairs has “taken several
actions to review training policies and procedures regarding
conferences,” Victoria Dillon, an agency spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail. She didn’t provide figures on canceled conferences.  The agency’s conference spending is also under scrutiny.
Its inspector general is reviewing two conferences held last
year at a  Marriott International Inc. (MAR)  resort near  Walt Disney (DIS) 
World that cost a total of $5 million.  The events featured a $52,000 video spoof of the Oscar-
winning movie “Patton.”  Training Expo  Agencies are placing limits on other conferences.  The Army is seeking a waiver to attend the annual
meeting of the Association of the U.S. Army, a nonprofit
advocacy organization based in Arlington, Virginia, though its
presence will be smaller than normal, according to a July 23
memo signed by Lieutenant General William Troy.  The service will restrict participation to 10 organizations
and commands for the three-day event beginning Oct. 22 in
Washington, with about 38,000 attendees, Troy wrote.  The GSA’s signature conference, a three-day training expo
held in May in  San Antonio ,  Texas , “was a shadow of its former
self,” said Allen, the consultant.  About 5,700 people attended, close to half the usual
amount, he said. Unlike previous events, it lacked an opening
reception, banners decorating the convention center and
employees wearing agency T-shirts, he said.  While Allen agrees that there has been an overreaction to
the GSA event, he said the new restrictions may be a good thing.
The standard fare at government conferences over the past two
decades has morphed from coffee and doughnuts to industry-
sponsored open bars, he said.  “Maybe now we are going to get back to the basics,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  