-- Taiwan Drills May Elevate Asia Sea Tensions as APEC to Meet
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-08-31T02:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/taiwan-drills-may-elevate-asia-maritime-tensions-as-apec-to-meet.html
Steps by  Taiwan  to raise its profile
in  East Asia ’s maritime-boundary disputes threaten to escalate
tensions just as the region’s leaders prepare to gather for an
annual summit.  Taiwan’s coast guard plans five days of live-fire drills
starting tomorrow on Taiping, one of the largest South  China  Sea
islands, over  Vietnam ’s objections. Separately, President Ma Ying-jeou, whose popularity has sunk since his January re-
election, unveiled a peace proposal in the  East China Sea , where
ire has flared between mainland China and  Japan  in recent weeks.  The Taiwanese moves inject a fresh element to conflicts
over areas rich in oil, gas and fish that have intensified in
the run-up to leadership contests in China,  South Korea  and
Japan later this year. Along with  Hong Kong , where activists
sailed to Japanese-claimed islands this month, Taiwan backs
Chinese claims against those of American allies Japan and the
 Philippines , even as it depends on the U.S. for security.  “Legislators saw that Taiwan was left out of international
talks and agreements, and asked the government to show the world
that Taiwan has control over this territory,” said Samuel C. Y.
Ku, a professor at the  Institute of China and Asia-Pacific
Studies  in Taiwan. “As long as you have sovereignty you have
the authority to get oil resources. If you don’t have
sovereignty, then you have nothing.”  Taiwan delivered 40-millimeter anti-aircraft guns and 120-
millimeter mortars to Taiping earlier this month to bolster its
defenses. Vietnam’s foreign ministry last week  called  on Taiwan
to immediately cancel the live-fire exercises.  APEC Summit  Investors have yet to signal concern that the tensions will
affect the outlook for the region’s economies or corporate
earnings. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average is up 3.3 percent so
far this month, South Korea’s Kospi has risen 1.3 percent and
Taiwan’s Taiex has gained 1.4 percent -- all exceeding the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index, which is down 0.3 percent.  The disputes also haven’t prevented China, Japan and South
Korea from beginning talks on a preferential trade agreement in
November, according to a statement on the website of China’s
commerce ministry.  Taiwan’s drill is “routine” and isn’t intended to
increase tensions, Foreign Ministry spokesman Steve Hsia said.  The island “is actively doing its thing to tell all the
major players, ‘Look guys, I am here,’” Henry Bensurto, a
Philippine official involved in South China Sea policy, said
last week. “What it’s trying to do now is not consistent with
playing a very positive role.”  Flag Assault  The maritime spats may spill into the 21-member Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, where Taiwan will also be
represented. Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  and Chinese
President  Hu Jintao  may discuss the disputes at the meeting in
Vladivostok,  Russia , Foreign Affairs Undersecretary Laura del
Rosario said.  Japan this week demanded an investigation after assailants
in Beijing blocked a car carrying its envoy and snatched a
Japanese flag off the vehicle. The incident followed competing
visits to islands in the East China Sea, known as Diaoyu in
Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese.  “It’s best if Japan and mainland China could join with the
 Republic of China ,” Hsia said, referring to the official name
for Taiwan. “It’s in the interest of all the parties concerned
to put all the disputes aside and sit down and talk” about
exploring resources, he said.  Ship Collision  Taiwan imports more than 99 percent of its energy, with the
cost increasing 30 percent in 2010 to $45 billion, according to
the most recent data posted on the  Bureau of Energy ’s website.
Domestic natural gas production fell by about 80 percent over
the past two decades, the bureau’s statistics show.  Ma, whose approval rating fell to a low of 15 percent in
July, vowed last month to never “concede a single inch” of
territory to Japan after a Taiwanese coast guard vessel
escorting activists with Chinese flags collided with a Japanese
ship near disputed islands.  China’s Foreign Ministry spokesman  Liu Weimin  praised the
Taiwanese activists as “compatriots” carrying out a duty to
defend the islands. Hsia said that Taiwan isn’t cooperating with
China over the islands.  ‘Tread Carefully’  “Taiwan is going to tread carefully in these disputes,”
said Gary Li, head of marine and aviation forecasting at London-
based Exclusive Analysis Ltd. “It doesn’t want to be seen as an
‘ally’ of Beijing, but nonetheless it can’t have escaped Taipei
that any military moves they conduct, nationalists on the
mainland would interpret as some form of ‘solidarity.’”  China and fellow claimants don’t officially recognize
Taiwan’s government and therefore have left it out of talks on a
code of conduct in the waters, said Ian Storey, a senior fellow
at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in  Singapore .  Chiang Kai-Shek’s administration, which moved to Taiwan
after losing the mainland to the Communists, drew China’s U-
shaped map of the  South China Sea  that both Vietnam and the
Philippines reject as a basis for joint development. Brunei and
 Malaysia  also claim some of the Spratly archipelago.  Taiping, also known as Itu Aba, is the largest island in
the Spratlys at 0.5 square kilometers (0.19 square mile), about
the size of the  Vatican City . Chiang claimed the island in 1946
and the Taipei government later established a military garrison
there.  U.S. Talks  The U.S. has avoided commenting on Taiwan’s recent moves
after criticizing China earlier this month for establishing a
garrison on the biggest island in the Paracels, an island chain
also claimed by Vietnam. While the U.S.  recognized  Beijing as
the sole legal government of China in 1979, it is bound by law
to help Taiwan maintain its defense.  Americans have held unofficial talks with Taiwan on the
territorial disputes, Assistant Secretary of State  Kurt Campbell 
said at a forum in June.  “It would be fair to say that they have been very, very
careful both in their public diplomacy and in their private
interactions on this issue,” he said in response to a question
about the possibility that Taiwan may cooperate with China in
the South China Sea. “I’ll leave it at that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  