-- Taiwan Dollar Poised for Monthly Advance on China Stimulus Bets
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   A r g i n   C h a n g
-- 2012-08-30T08:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/taiwan-dollar-poised-for-monthly-advance-on-china-stimulus-bets.html
Taiwan ’s dollar was set for its
first monthly advance since April on speculation policy makers
in China, the island’s biggest trade partner, will unveil
stimulus measures to counter an economic slowdown.  Global funds bought $3.1 billion more Taiwanese stocks than
they sold so far in August, the biggest monthly net purchase
since April 2011, according to exchange data. Chinese Premier
 Wen Jiabao  urged extra measures to help meet economic targets as
he toured Guangdong, the nation’s biggest exporting province,
the official Xinhua News Agency said Aug. 25.  “We’ve been seeing rapid capital inflows into Taiwan
betting on stimulus measures by global policy makers,” said Ma
Tieying, an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore .
The risk is that if the measures don’t come through, “investors
will go back and look at fundamentals and the Taiwan dollar’s
temporary appreciation might reverse.”  The currency advanced 0.1 percent this month to NT$29.986
against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It
touched this week’s high of NT$29.84 earlier and closed little
changed on the day.  Export Orders  Official data on Aug. 20 showed Taiwan’s export orders fell
4.39 percent in July from a year earlier, a fifth straight
monthly decline. Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross 
said yesterday the  Federal Reserve  will add to monetary stimulus
“relatively soon.” The comments came two days before Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  speaks in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming.  Taiwan’s government bonds were little changed. The yield on
the island’s 1.25 percent notes due March 2022 was at 1.182
percent, from 1.181 percent yesterday and 1.176 percent last
month, according to Gretai Securities Market.  “It’s not just whether the Fed will push QE3, traders are
waiting to see how big the program will be,” said Stanford
Chen, a Taipei-based fixed-income manager at KGI Securities Co.
“In front of all these uncertainties, traders are staying
put.”  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, fell 23 basis points in August and
climbed seven basis points today to 3.4 percent.  The  overnight money-market rate  was steady at 0.388
percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Centre. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  