-- Manchester City Draws Three Titleholders in Champions League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/manchester-city-to-face-real-ajax-dortmund-in-champions-league.html
Manchester City will face the
Spanish, Dutch and German title-holders in the  Champions League 
group stage, while last season’s winner Chelsea will play
Juventus, which won Italy’s Serie A in May.  English Premier League winner City was matched during
yesterday’s draw in Monaco with Real Madrid, Ajax and two-time
defending Bundesliga champion Borussia Dortmund in Group D.  While City is playing in European soccer’s elite club
competition for the second time, its three opponents have
combined for 14 titles, led by Real Madrid’s record of nine.  “When you want to play Champions League football, you want
to play big teams,” former City midfielder  Patrick Vieira , now
an executive with the club, told Sky Sports. “When you look at
the quality of our players, we can believe in ourselves.”  Chelsea, which beat  Bayern Munich  in May for its first
European Cup title, is in Group E with Juventus, a two-time
winner of the competition. Ukrainian champion  Shakhtar Donetsk 
and tournament newcomer Nordsjaelland, the Danish league winner,
round out the group.  Chelsea is trying to become the first club to retain the
title since AC Milan in 1990. The competition was renamed the
Champions League in 1992.  “It’s not going to be easy,” Chelsea club secretary Dave
Barnard told  Sky Sports . “Manchester United thought they had an
easy group last season and went out early, so we cannot afford
to do that. We will respect all our opponents.”  Barcelona Favorite  Barcelona is the 11-4 favorite with U.K. bookmaker
 Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  to lift the European Cup for the fourth time in
eight seasons. That means that every $4 winning bet returns $11
plus the original stake.  Madrid is second at 4-1, followed by Manchester City and
Manchester United at 7-1. Chelsea is the fifth choice at 12-1.  “We’re favorites, we can be happy with the draw,”
Barcelona captain Carles Puyol said on his club’s website. “It
won’t be easy. You pay dearly for any errors or overconfidence
in the Champions League. We respect all of our rivals.”  Barcelona is joined by former European champions Benfica
and Celtic in Group G, along with  Spartak Moscow . Scottish
champion Celtic is the only one of the 12 ex-winners in the
field to reach the group stage from the playoffs and not
automatically qualify.  “It’s a tough, tough group,” Celtic coach Neil Lennon,
whose club has reached this round for the first time in four
years, said at a news conference. “All the teams play good
football, so it will be attractive to watch.”  Other Groups  Bayern Munich is in Group F with Valencia, Lille and BATE
Borisov.  Manchester United  heads Group H with Braga, Galatasaray
and Cluj.  London’s Arsenal will be joined in Group B by Schalke,
Olympiacos and French champion Montpellier. Porto,  Dynamo Kiev ,
Paris Saint-Germain and Dinamo Zagreb are in Group A.  Group play runs from Sept. 18 through Dec. 5 with the top
two teams in each advancing to the round of 16. The final will
be played May 25 at Wembley Stadium in London. The 32 teams will
receive a minimum of 8.6 million euros ($10.8 million) from
tournament organizer UEFA.  Barcelona’s  Andres Iniesta  was named the winner of UEFA’s
Best Player in Europe Award for the 2011-12 season following the
draw.  The midfielder, who helped Spain defend its European
Championship title this summer, received 19 votes in a poll of
53 journalists representing each of European soccer’s member
associations to beat out Barcelona teammate  Lionel Messi  and
Real Madrid’s Cristiano Ronaldo. Messi, last year’s winner, and
Ronaldo each had 17 votes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 