-- Manchester United Shares Winning Structured Product Investors
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-08-30T08:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/manchester-united-shares-winning-structured-product-investors.html
Investors are buying structured
products that profit on gains in shares of  Manchester United 
following the English soccer club’s initial public offering.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  issued eight so-called
mini futures since the club’s U.S. stock issue on Aug. 9,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The securities were
priced in Swedish krona, euros and Swiss francs and offer
investors leveraged exposure to the stock, which has fallen 3.1
percent from its $14 IPO price.  Investors were drawn to the club’s “proven track record on
the pitch and the potential to profit from increasing media
revenue” and merchandise sales, said Christian Bahrne, London-
based head of public distribution of equity derivatives and
structured retail for the Nordic countries at RBS. The club’s
revenue has more than doubled since the Glazer family bought the
team in a leveraged buyout in 2005.  United’s sponsorships and product licensing helped generate
89.5 million pounds ($141.7 million) of revenue in the nine
months through March 31, more than one-third of total revenue,
filings show. That’s 17 percent more than the year-earlier
period.  The mini futures, the first structured products tied to the
134-year-old club, were bought by individual investors in
Scandinavia, said Bahrne. Demand is strong in the region for
foreign equities, including companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , said Bahrne.  The mini futures comprise two parts, a cash investment from
an investor and a loan from the issuing bank. To leverage the
product, an investor will pay 500 krona ($75) and borrow 500
krona, receiving 20 percent for every 10 percent gain in the
stock and losing 20 percent for every 10 percent fall.  All eight securities were bullish on the stock and RBS
plans to sell bearish securities as soon as next month, Bahrne
said. It can be difficult to structure bearish products
immediately after an IPO due to the limited supply of stock in
the market, which the bank would need to borrow to cover its
short position, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  