-- Ancient Human Kin’s DNA Code Illuminates Rise of Brains
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-08-30T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/ancient-human-kin-s-dna-code-illuminates-rise-of-brains.html
DNA analysis of an extinct human
ancestor that lived 80,000 years ago has pinpointed fundamental
genes tied to the brain’s evolution, showing how genome testing
is changing anthropology and archaeology along with medicine.  At least eight genes that rose to prominence in human DNA
since the time of the ancient relatives, called Denisovans,
affect nerve growth and language, an international team of
researchers said today in the journal  Science . The cognitive
power conferred by these genes may have keyed the development of
complex thinking skills, culture and civilization said Svante Paabo, a researcher at the  Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology  in Leipzig,  Germany .  “This is perhaps in the long term, to me, the most
fascinating part about this; what it will tell us in the future
about what makes us special in the world,” he said yesterday on
a conference call.  New DNA techniques are reshaping knowledge of human
evolution just as quickly as they’re sparking the development of
medical tests and treatments. Using a tiny amount of material
from an ancient finger bone, scientists were able to analyze the
ancient ancestor’s genes as closely as those of anyone who
walked into a lab today, said David Reich, a  Harvard Medical
School  genetics professor who contributed to the study.  Almost every cell in an organism holds a complete copy its
genome, the chemical code for making proteins and tissues. The
Denisovan genome analyzed in the study gives a broad visual
picture of the individual it came from, holding genes that
predict brown hair, brown eyes and dark skin in humans.  Young Denisovan  Denisovans, who lived in  Asia , were closely related to
 Neanderthals , a group of human ancestors that existed at about
the same time.  The structure of the bone the DNA came from suggests it was
that of a young girl, about 7 or 8 years old, the scientists
said. Paleontologists excavated the fragment, along with two
teeth, at Denisova Cave in the Altai Mountains of southern
Siberia in 2008.  “In some ways, this ancient genome is even higher quality
than the modern-day genomes we’ve produced,” Reich said in a
telephone interview. “This means that very degraded ancient DNA
samples that weren’t possible to study before can now be
studied.”  As part of the investigation, the researchers sequenced 11
new genomes from people in representative populations in Asia,
 Africa ,  Europe  and the Americas. Among modern human populations,
the Denisovan genome is most similar to the DNA of Papua New
Guinea natives, the study said.  Conserved Genes  Certain portions of human genomes and their evolutionary
relatives have changed very little over time. Nature preserves
them over the ages because they’re so important to life and
health. Scientists call these areas “highly conserved.”
Differences in these highly conserved regions between the
Denisovan and human genomes may help outline the most recent
chapters in human brain evolution.  The study identified 23 highly conserved regions that
differ significantly between humans and Denisovans. Eight are
linked to genes involved in brain function, the study said. Four
of these genes -- called SLITRK1, KATNA1, ARHGAP32 and HTR2B --
are known to be involved in nerve growth and function.  When compared with Denisovans and Neanderthals, the finding
suggests that a primary change in the human brain is its
enhanced capacity for making connections, Paabo said. Human
intelligence relies on the brain’s ability to link ideas,
memories and experiences through its networks of neurons.  “Neanderthals had just as large brains as modern humans
had; relative to body size, they had even a bit larger brains,”
he said. “It makes sense that what pops out is a sort of
connectivity in the brain.”  Language Disorders  Three other highly conserved genes that have undergone
changes from the Denisovans -- ADSL, CBTNAP2 and CNTNAP2 -- are
linked to autism and other language disorders. These genes may
provide some explanation for modern humans’ ability to see
things from another person’s viewpoint, as well as to conceal
things and lie, Paabo said.  The scientists used  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) ’s Genome Analyzer IIx to
decode the Denisovan DNA. Illumina, based in  San Diego , is
developing machines that sequence an entire human genome in a
day.  Roche Holding AG  dropped a $6.7 billion hostile bid for the
company in April.  Matthias Meyer, also from the Max Planck Institute in
Leipzig, said he developed ways to analyze genetic material
that’s normally lost in the process of preparing it for
sequencing.  New Technique  The technique is particularly useful for decoding short
strands of DNA, and may be applied in forensic cases when
samples have been damaged, Meyer said. The scientists have
already tested the process on DNA samples of extinct cave bears,
and will be used to get greater detail from Neanderthal genomes
that have already been sequenced with conventional techniques,
he said.  “This could also be helpful to researchers who are trying
to sequence cancer DNA from tumor samples with limited
material,” said Emily Hodges, a molecular biologist at  Cold
Spring Harbor Laboratory  in  New York . “It could be used in many
applications in the field.”  The researchers were even able to split and analyze the two
strands of the Denisovan’s DNA, and thus differentiate the
contributions of each parent. The strands were alike enough to
suggest that the Denisovan population had relatively little
genetic diversity, yet different enough to show that the two
parents were not closely related, the researchers said.  100,000 Differences  By counting all the differences between the genomes of
Denisovan and modern human genomes, more than 100,000, the
scientists estimated that they became separate groups about
170,000 years ago. That didn’t end the interaction between
humans and Denisovans. The painstaking analysis shows that human
DNA continues to contain some Denisovan genes.  Denisovans and humans probably “intermingled” in mainland
Asia somewhere as they moved on to colonize southeast Asia and
the Pacific Islands, the researchers said. More such discoveries
are likely.  “I would not be surprised if in the future we find other
groups of humans in addition to Neanderthals and Denisovans out
there, particularly in Asia,” Paabo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  