-- Mando May Buy Former Affiliate Halla Climate From Visteon
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-08-30T07:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/mando-says-it-s-considering-buying-halla-climate-from-visteon.html
Mando Corp. (060980) , the largest unit of
South Korea’s Halla Group, said it may offer to buy the 70
percent stake in former affiliate  Halla Climate Control Corp. (018880) 
owned by  Visteon Corp. (VC)   Mando has hired an adviser, though no decision has been
made on an offer, South Korea’s second-largest maker of auto
parts said in a regulatory filing today. Halla Climate shares
rose 2.7 percent to 24,500 won at the close in Seoul trading,
increasing the company’s market value to 2.6 trillion won ($2.3
billion). Mando gained 0.3 percent.  The move highlights Chairman Chung Mong Won’s ambitions to
rebuild the Halla Group, which went bankrupt in 1997 after years
of overexpansion saddled the conglomerate with at least 6.5
trillion won in debt. Visteon has surged 31 percent this month
in  New York  trading amid speculation the  Van Buren Township ,
Michigan-based company may attract a bid for Halla Climate
shares or an outright takeover offer.  “All they can do right now is consider,” said Lee Hyung Sil, an analyst at  Shinyoung Securities Co. (001720)  “They’ve expressed
interest in Halla Climate in 2009, 2010, and 2011, but they just
don’t have the means.”  Mando, which makes brakes and steering systems, only has
about one-tenth the  cash pile  that an acquisition would probably
cost, Lee said.  Hyundai Connection  Mando’s announcement comes at a time the nation’s family-
run industrial groups, known as the chaebol, face mounting
scrutiny. Lawmakers are proposing legislation that would
threaten to weaken the control of founding families, including
Halla Group and Hyundai Motor Group -- run by the Halla Group
chairman’s cousin  Chung Mong Koo .  “Chairman Chung has been slowly putting back the Halla
Group that was, before the bankruptcy,” Lee Sang Hyun, an
analyst at  NH Investment & Securities Co. (016420)  said by phone. “Also,
owning Halla Climate makes sense as the company has been
profitable and will give Halla Group a lead in automotive air
control equipment sales.”  Deutsche Bank AG analysts wrote earlier this month Visteon
will probably either sell its holdings in Halla to Mando or be
acquired by Mando.  Visteon, the U.S. auto-parts maker that was spun off from
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  in 2000, in July failed in an attempt to buy the
remaining 30 percent of Halla Climate, which makes automotive
air conditioners. South Korea’s National Pension Service, which
 owns  8.1 percent of Halla, rejected the U.S. company’s offer and
reached a preliminary agreement to give Mando the preferred
bidder status for the fund’s stake.  Bankers Talk  Visteon in July also ended an agreement to sell the
majority of its interiors business to its joint venture with
 Huayu Automotive Systems Co. (600741)   The Korea Economic Daily earlier reported that Mando may
seek to buy Halla Climate shares, citing unidentified investment
bankers. Halla Group decided to make an offer after Visteon’s
chief executive officer resigned earlier this month, according
to the report. Though Mando initially considered taking over
Visteon, it decided to pursue the purchase of the Halla Climate
shares instead, the newspaper reported.  Calls to Annouk Ruffo-Leduc, a spokesman for Visteon in the
Asia Pacific region, weren’t immediately answered.  Visteon Chief Executive Officer Don Stebbins resigned on
Aug. 10 and the company’s board installed Tim Leuliette as
interim chairman, president and CEO. Visteon, since exiting
bankruptcy in 2010, has been shedding lower-margin revenue in
vehicle interiors and lighting to focus on faster-growing
operations in  Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  