-- Apple, Google CEOs Said to Discuss Patent Disputes
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-30T20:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/apple-ceo-cook-google-s-page-said-to-discuss-patent-matters.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  CEO  Larry Page  are holding discussions
regarding patent disputes involving the two leading technology
companies, said a person with knowledge of the talks.  Cook and Page spoke by phone last week and are expected to
talk more soon, said the person, who asked not to be named
because the conversations aren’t public. The person didn’t
elaborate on the details of the discussions.  Apple is embroiled in lawsuits with several makers of
smartphones that use Google’s Android operating system. Apple
last week won a $1.05 billion verdict from a  California  jury,
which found that features of some of Samsung Electronics Co.’s
Android-based phones infringed patents for the iPhone. Samsung’s
stock tumbled the most in almost four years after the verdict.  Even though Apple hasn’t sued Google directly, the iPhone
maker’s patent lawsuits against Samsung and  HTC Corp. (2498)  have
targeted features from Android. Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  told
biographer Walter Isaacson that Android was a “stolen
product.”  Apple considered suing Google directly before filing its
first smartphone patent-infringement suit against HTC in 2010,
according to a person close to Apple’s legal team.  Apple decided against it after determining that going after
the manufacturers of rival smartphones would be a better
strategy than building a case against Google, this person said.
The Android developer, also owner of the most popular Internet-
search engine, gives the mobile operating system away for free
to handset makers in exchange for advertising revenue.  Motorola Mobility  Motorola Mobility, a smartphone maker that Google acquired
in May, filed a patent-infringement complaint against Apple
earlier this month. In the complaint with the U.S. International
Trade Commission, Motorola Mobility accuses Apple of infringing
seven patents, including one related to Apple’s Siri voice-
recognition feature.  Reuters  reported  the talks between Apple and Google
earlier. Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to
comment, as did Niki Fenwick, a spokeswoman for Google.  After last week’s jury verdict, Apple has requested a
permanent ban on U.S. sales of eight models of Samsung
smartphones that run Android. U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh will
consider the ban at a Dec. 6 court hearing.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, fell 1.4 percent to
$663.87 at the close in New York. The stock has risen 64 percent
this year. Google, based in Mountain View, California, fell 0.9
percent to $681.68, and has gained 5.5 percent this year.  On the first day of trading after the California patent
verdict was announced, Samsung’s stock plunged 7.5 percent,
wiping out more than $12 billion in market value. Apple’s
climbed as much as 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  