-- Ariad Says EU Grants Accelerated Review of Leukemia Drug
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-08-30T11:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/ariad-says-eu-grants-accelerated-review-of-leukemia-drug.html
Ariad Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARIA)  said the
European Union’s drug regulator has granted its request for
accelerated assessment of its new cancer medicine, which may
lead to a faster approval.  Ariad submitted ponatinib to the European Medicines Agency
yesterday for a cancer of the white blood cells known as chronic
myeloid leukemia, the company said in a statement today. The
accelerated assessment may shave off “several months” from the
typical process that takes about a year, Chief Executive Officer
Harvey Berger said. Ariad applied for approval from the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration in July.  Chronic myeloid leukemia is characterized by an excessive
production of white blood cells by the bone marrow resulting
from a genetic abnormality. Ponatinib would compete with
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Sprycel, also known as dasatinib, and
 Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Tasigna.  “Patients fail those drugs quite routinely,” Berger said
in a phone interview today. “There really is nothing available
today for patients who fail one or the other of both of those
agents. That’s where ponatinib comes in.”  A  late-stage study  presented at the  American Society of
Clinical Oncology ’s annual meeting in June showed that 54
percent of chronic-phase leukemia patients achieved a response
that reduced the number of cells with the abnormal gene
associated with the disease to a normal level.  Peak sales of the drug for patients who failed to respond
to or couldn’t tolerate previous treatment may reach $800
million globally, Berger said. That may rise to $1.5 billion if
the drug is approved to treat newly diagnosed patients, he said.
Ariad will conduct late-stage trials on ponatinib in that
patient group and expects to complete enrolment of participants
by the end of next year, he said.  Ariad stock has gained 67 percent this year, giving the
company a makret value of $3.4 billion. A medicine developed by
the company together with Merck & Co. failed to win the backing
of a U.S. regulatory panel in March. The company, which has
board members from Greece and  Italy , will establish European
headquarters near Lausanne,  Switzerland , that will become fully
operational by the end of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  