-- Arizona Democrat Seeking Upset Levers Goldwater Not Obama
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-08-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/arizona-democrat-seeking-upset-levers-goldwater-not-obama.html
While he was encouraged to run by
President  Barack Obama , Democrat Richard Carmona spent the
official first day of his Senate race against Republican U.S.
Representative Jeff Flake touting  endorsements  from relatives of
Senator  Barry Goldwater .  A press briefing yesterday with Goldwater’s daughter and
granddaughter came as Carmona, who was President  George W. Bush ’s surgeon general, fights Flake’s attempts to cast him as a
Democratic “rubber stamp” in a state favoring  Mitt Romney , the
Republican presidential nominee. On Aug. 28, Flake clinched his
party’s nomination to replace retiring Senator  Jon Kyl .  “Carmona’s only hope is to get people to split their
tickets,” said  Tom Jensen , director of Raleigh, North Carolina-
based Public Policy Polling, whose  Arizona   survey last month  had
Carmona tied with Flake while Romney led Obama 52 percent to 41
percent. “If Flake can get people not to do that because they
dislike Obama so much, that is going to help his prospects.”  In Arizona, as in other states where Romney has the upper
hand, Democrats are trying to divert attention from the top of
the ticket to their individual candidacies as Republicans tie
them to the president. Jensen points to Senate races in Montana,
Missouri and  North Dakota , where Democratic candidate Heidi Heitkamp made headlines in May for overtly criticizing Obama.  “Carmona is in the class of races where he wants a
personal race rather than a partisan race,” said  Nathan Gonzales , deputy editor at the nonpartisan  Rothenberg Political
Report .  ‘Dream Candidate’  Carmona’s life story makes him a “dream candidate” for
Democrats in Arizona, Gonzales said. A Latino who served in the
 Vietnam War , Carmona went to medical school, became a heart
surgeon, served as a deputy sheriff and was the nation’s
highest-ranking medical officer under a Republican president.  He may be the only Democratic candidate promoting his
connection to Bush, Gonzales said.  “Carmona is trying to turn typical liabilities into
political assets,” Gonzales said. “I would have a tough time
finding another candidate mentioning Bush.”  Carmona released  a new advertisement  describing his
military experience this week as Flake began his general-
election push with an ad and  website  playing up the connection
between Carmona and Obama.  “Richard Carmona is Obama’s hand-picked candidate for
Arizona, and he shares the president’s agenda,” Flake said
after winning his party’s primary, according to the  Associated
Press . “And I don’t think it is the agenda Arizonans want.”  Obama’s Call  Carmona received a telephone call from Obama about running
-- one of many conversations he had with many people, according
to Andy Barr, a spokesman for the candidate. In the past,
Carmona, who had been an independent, was recruited by
Republicans to run for governor and for Congress, Barr said.  “Congressman Flake knows he can’t run on his record, he
can’t run on the issues,” Barr said. Carmona’s “record shows
he will be an independent, centrist voice for Arizona.”  Flake enters the general election as the front-runner. The
Rothenberg Political Report rates the race as “Lean
Republican” while the Cook Political Report casts it as
“Likely Republican.”  Still, it remains to be seen how Carmona performs as a
general-election candidate and how bruised Flake is from the
primary. Flake defeated businessman Wil Cardon, who spent
millions of dollars of his own money to paint Flake as a flip-
flopper and as not tough enough on issues such as immigration.  ‘Not Good’  “He hurt Jeff Flake, which will not be good for the
general election,” Kyl, a Republican who has endorsed Flake,
told the Arizona Republic newspaper.  Though Flake easily defeated Cardon, 69 percent to 21
percent, the race drove up negative perceptions among voters and
forced him to spend a lot of money, said  Jennifer Duffy , senior
editor at the nonpartisan Cook Political Report in  Washington .  “I think this race needs two or three weeks to see how it
shapes up,” Duffy said. The stakes for Republicans, who have
held the seat since Kyl took office in 1995, are high in their
battle to take control of the chamber: “If they lose Arizona,
they aren’t winning the majority -- not even close.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
acrawford24@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  