-- Harvard Dead Monkeys Make Top 10 List for Lab Violations
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-08-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/harvard-dead-monkeys-make-top-10-list-for-lab-violations.html
Harvard Medical School logged its
latest lab-monkey death this past spring when a cotton-top
tamarin monkey died of thirst for lack of a water bottle. Then
41 deer mice died in April at a Harvard facility after their
water source got cut off.  As with the monkey, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  gave
the country’s oldest institution of higher learning an official
warning. In less than two years, four monkeys have died in
Harvard labs, including one left in a cage as it went through a
mechanical washer.  “When you see multiple incidents at the same facility over
a period of time, that’s when you realize that this is
indicative of a system-wide problem,” said Michael Budkie,
executive director of the nonprofit  Stop Animal Exploitation
Now !, in a phone interview.  The Milford, Ohio-based SAEN has placed Harvard on its top-
10 list of animal-welfare violators for the first half of 2012.
The existence of enough violators to glean a top 10 helps
indicate the scope of lab-animal abuse nationally.  The Animal Welfare Act, enforced by the USDA’s Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service, requires labs to handle
research animals as “carefully” as possible to prevent
“trauma,” overheating, physical harm, “behavioral stress or
unnecessary discomfort.”  Two Gerbils  TRS Labs Inc., based in  Athens ,  Georgia , ranked first on
SAEN’s list with 23 violations affecting about 70 animals,
Budkie said. TRS was cited for housing cats in a room that was
88 to 89 degrees. It also failed to separate two gerbils that
had been fighting in a cage and to protect dogs from suffering
injuries, according to a USDA report.  Several calls to TRS executives seeking comment weren’t
returned.  Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc. in  California , which
researches antibodies and animal health-care products, ranked
second on the SAEN list with 11 citations affecting 85 animals.
In April, an Aphis inspector found a goat with a broken leg
whose cast had come off, according to the USDA report. The
attending veterinarian said she didn’t have “time to attend to
the goat” because of her work load.  “This facility was basically understaffed and it couldn’t
offer good care,” Budkie said. Santa Cruz Biotechnology
officials didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Along with vigilance and public exposure, animal-welfare
activists are trying to end the use of animals in research
projects.  Flying Monkeys  Last month, the Washington-based  People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals  persuaded  Air China Ltd. (601111)  to join  Delta Air
Lines Inc. and  American Airlines Inc. in agreeing to end
shipments of monkeys into the U.S.  “If you stop the pipeline into the U.S., that will curtail
the number of monkeys used for research,” said Justin Goodman,
associate director of PETA’s laboratory investigations
department.  Harvard University  ranks third on SAEN’s list, followed by
Harvard Medical School at No. 4. The two institutions have
separate licenses from the USDA to use animals for research and
testing.  Aphis also is investigating the death of five monkeys at
the Harvard-affiliated  New England Primate Research Center , said
USDA spokesman David Sacks. The center’s interim director,
Frederick Wang, stepped down in March after the death of the
 tamarin monkey .  Too Big  “Harvard thinks it’s too big to fail, and it thinks all it
has to do is provide information, and they’ll just get a tap on
the wrist,” said John Pippin, director of academic affairs for
the Washington-based  Physicians Committee for Responsible
Medicine . “There is no such thing as humane animal research.”  In March,  Harvard Medical School  Dean Jeffrey S. Flier
ordered an independent review panel to evaluate the management
and care of animals used in experiments. The panel’s
recommendations included the appointment of a veterinarian and
biosafety officer to oversee the primate center and the
development of “new approaches” to its oversight process.  “We will be unwavering in our efforts to ensure that our
administrative and managerial practices are on par with our
scientific standards of excellence,” Flier said in a statement
issued this month.  Other labs on SAEN’s list include Tuskegee University in
 Alabama  in fifth place with 13 citations, followed by the
University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston; the Harvard-
affiliated Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary;  Indiana 
University School of Medicine; University of  Puerto Rico ; and
Methodist Research Institute in Indiana.  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and
Lance Esplund on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 