-- Asian Stocks Erase Monthly Advance on Economic Concerns
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-08-30T10:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/asian-stocks-drop-to-four-week-low-before-bernanke-speech.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index wiping out its gains for the month, as reports
on Japanese retail sales and South Korean business confidence
add to signs of an economic slowdown and investors doubt the
 Federal Reserve  will announce further stimulus.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s biggest mobile-phone
maker by sales, slipped 1.2 percent in  Seoul . Atlas Iron Ltd.
sank 5.5 percent, leading Australian iron-ore producers lower
after the metal’s price in  China  declined to the lowest level in
almost three years. China Cosco Holdings Co. slid 3.5 percent in
Hong Kong after the nation’s largest listed shipping company
posted a wider first-half loss.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.8 percent to 118.3 as of
7:53 p.m. in  Tokyo , erasing this month’s advance and heading for
its lowest close since Aug. 3. About three shares dropped for
each that rose on the gauge. The Fed said the  U.S. economy 
continued to expand “gradually,” damping speculation Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  will announce a third round of quantitative
easing to support growth in a speech tomorrow at a meeting of
central bankers in  Wyoming .  “Investors who expect Bernanke to deliver a clear
commitment to QE3 might be disappointed, which could trigger
some sort of sell-off in so-called risky assets,” said Mikio Kumada, a Singapore-based global strategist for LGT Capital
Management, which oversees more than $20 billion. “This is
still not a time to bet against major central banks’ ability to
intervene in markets.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  decreased 1 percent. The
nation’s retail sales dropped 0.8 percent in July from a year
earlier, the first decline in eight months. Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index lost 0.9 percent.  S. Korea Confidence  South Korea’s Kospi Index declined 1.2 percent. Business
confidence among the country’s manufacturers stood near the
lowest level since the global financial crisis, a report showed
today, maintaining pressure for an interest-rate cut to support
growth.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index both fell 1.2 percent, while
China’s Shanghai Composite Index closed little changed.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index is heading for its first
monthly drop since May, as profit warnings in Hong Kong hit a
record and Japanese companies including Sony Corp. cut earnings
forecast. The MSCI All-Country World Index is heading for 2
percent advance in August, extending gains for a third month.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.4 percent
today. The gauge gained 0.1 percent yesterday as a report showed
U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 1.7 percent annual
rate from April through June, up from an initial estimate of 1.5
percent.  Gradual Growth  The world’s biggest economy continued to expand
“gradually” in July and early August as improving housing and
retail sales helped outweigh weakness in manufacturing, the Fed
said yesterday in its Beige Book business survey based on
reports from its 12 districts. The report reflects information
collected on or before Aug. 20.  South Korean manufacturers dropped as a central bank survey
showed most businesses remained pessimistic as a slowdown in
China and Europe’s debt crisis sapped demand.  Samsung Electronics, which gets almost half its sales from
China and Europe, slid 1.2 percent to 1.215 million won in
Seoul. LG Display Co., a maker of liquid-crystal displays,
declined 2.1 percent to 26,250 won.  Raw-material producers posted the biggest decline among the
 10 industry groups  in the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  today.  Australian iron-ore producers fell as benchmark prices of
the commodity used to make steel slipped in China. Atlas sank
5.5 percent to A$1.38. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-
largest producer of the metal, dropped 3.8 percent to A$48.63, a
three-year low.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  fell 1.6 percent to
A$3.59, the lowest close since May 2010.  BHP Falls  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company and
Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, decreased 2.4 percent to
A$31.99. Woodside Petroleum Ltd. slid 1.6 percent to A$34.09.
Crude dropped a second day in  New York  as stockpiles
unexpectedly rose.  China Cosco dropped 3.5 percent to HK$3.04 in Hong Kong,
heading for its lowest close since Oct. 6. The company said its
first-half net loss almost doubled from a year earlier to 4.87
billion  yuan  ($767 million) as freight rates fell amid a global
shipping capacity glut and a deepening economic slowdown.  China Shipping Container Lines Co. (2866)  slumped 11 percent to
HK$1.57, the most on the regional benchmark index, after posting
a first-half loss of 1.28 billion yuan, compared with a 630
million yuan loss a year.  Of the 566 companies in the Asia-Pacific index that have
reported quarterly earnings since July 1, and for which
Bloomberg has estimates, more than half failed to meet
projections, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Asustek Soars  Among stocks that gained,  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  jumped 6.9
percent to NT$294.50 in Taipei, the biggest advance on the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index, after posting second-quarter profit that
exceeded analyst estimates.  Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Ltd., Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG’s Chinese partner, climbed 4 percent to HK$7.31
in Hong Kong after saying first-half profit rose 42 percent,
beating estimates as sales climbed.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index fell 7.5 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 29 through yesterday. Stocks on Asia’s
benchmark index were  valued  at 12.5 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.7 for the S&P 500 and 11.6 for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  