-- Asian Currencies Drop as Stimulus Bets Cool; Peso Jumps on GDP
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-08-30T08:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/asian-currencies-drop-as-stimulus-bets-cool-peso-gains-on-gdp.html
Most Asian currencies declined
against the dollar as signs of improvement in the  U.S. economy 
cooled expectations the  Federal Reserve  will ease monetary
policy further.  South Korea’s won dropped toward a one-month low after a
central bank report today showed manufacturers’ confidence is
near the lowest level since 2009. Malaysia’s ringgit and
Thailand’s baht fell for a fifth day before Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  speaks at a meeting of central bankers in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming tomorrow. A central bank report yesterday said the U.S
economy expanded gradually in July and early August.  “Ahead of the Jackson Hole speech, a lot of expectations
of easing policy have been scaled back because the U.S. data is
getting better,” said  Thomas Harr , head of Asia local markets
strategy at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore. “That’s
weighing on sentiment.”  The won fell 0.05 percent to close at 1,134.05 per dollar
in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ringgit
and the baht weakened 0.1 percent to 3.1255 and 31.37,
respectively. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which
tracks the region’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen,
was little changed after losing 0.1 percent this week.  The Philippine peso reversed earlier losses after data
showed gross domestic product increased 5.9 percent in the
second quarter, beating the 5.5 percent median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The economy expanded by 6.4
percent in the first three months of 2012. The peso rose 0.3
percent to 42.230 per dollar in  Manila , after earlier weakening
as much as 0.1 percent.  ‘No Momentum’  A  Bank of Korea  index of manufacturers’ confidence for
September was at 75 from 70 the previous month, the only
readings below 80 since 2009. Levels of below 100 indicate that
pessimists outnumber optimists.  “There’s a lot of caution in the market ahead of
Bernanke’s speech,” said Yun Se Min, a Seoul-based currency
trader for Busan Bank. “I see no momentum for the won to gain
now, especially as we see importers ready to buy the dollar when
the won strengthens.”  South Korea’s exports probably shrank 6.8 percent in August
from a year earlier, contracting for a second month, while
industrial output fell 0.9 percent in July from June, separate
Bloomberg News surveys showed before data due in the next two
days.  Fund Inflows  The baht was poised for its longest losing streak in three
months as Japanese figures showed retail sales dropped 0.8
percent in July from a year earlier, compared with the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey for a decline of 0.1 percent.
Asia’s second-largest economy accounted for 10.4 percent of
goods shipped from Thailand in the first seven months of this
year, official data show.  “Thailand exports quite a lot to Japan, and therefore,
weak data in Japan is hurting  market sentiment ,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc.
in Tokyo. “However, funds are still flowing into Thailand and
other Asian nations and that provides some support in the long
run.”  Indonesia’s rupiah fell to the weakest level since May
ahead of a Sept. 3 report that economists forecast will show the
nation’s trade  deficit  widened to $1.5 billion in July, from
$1.3 billion the previous month. The rupiah dropped 0.21 percent
to 9,576 per dollar.  Elsewhere, China’s  yuan  gained 0.05 percent to 6.3485 per
dollar. Taiwan’s dollar and India’s rupee were little changed at
NT$29.99 and 55.625 against the greenback.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  