-- IPad Battering Acer Opens Door for Asustek Takeover
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-08-31T07:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/asustek-acquiring-acer-seen-reality-as-tablets-hit-pcs-real-m-a.html
After competition from the iPad
battered  Acer Inc. (2353)  and left it trading at an 85 percent discount
to sales,  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  can become the world’s biggest
personal-computer maker by acquiring its Taiwanese rival.  Demand for low-cost personal computers had made Taipei-
based Acer the world’s  second-largest  by shipments in 2009
before it slipped to third as tablet computers supplanted PCs.
Acer, which reported its first annual loss in 2011, has a market
value of $2.4 billion after falling about 75 percent from a high
reached shortly before Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  unveiled the
iPad in January 2010. Acer now trades at 0.15 times revenue,
one-third the valuation Asustek fetches, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  By acquiring Acer, Taipei-based Asustek would gain a sales
network and brands to push the superior technology and higher-
priced products that allowed it to avoid head-on competition
with the iPad, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said. Asustek designed
Google Inc.’s new  Nexus 7 tablet , while Acer owns the  Gateway 
and Packard Bell brands. Combined, the companies would hold 18
percent of the global PC market, overtaking  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
for the top spot, according to market researcher Gartner Inc.  “They have complementary strengths,” said Jenny Lai, a
Taipei-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc. “Asustek is
relatively small so they could acquire Acer’s scale, lowering
their cost structure while being able to develop good products,
which is already its strength.”  Acer rose as much as  2.5 percent  today, the most in two
weeks, and ended up 1.2 percent at NT$26.45. Asustek gained 1.5
percent to NT$299, while  Taiwan ’s benchmark Taiex Index rose 0.4
percent.  Cheapest Computers  Acer spokesman Henry Wang declined to comment on the
prospect of a deal with Asustek.  “We have no such plans,” said  David Chang , Asustek’s
chief financial officer. “We prefer organic growth because M&A
has many challenges. Our weakness was in channel distribution
which we’ve improved a lot in the past two years.”  Founded in 1976, Acer rose to prominence as a contract
manufacturer for International Business Machines Corp. before
releasing products under its own name  starting in 1987 . The
company spun off its manufacturing operations in 2000 and
acquired  Irvine , California-based Gateway Inc. for $755 million
in 2007, adding another brand name and boosting U.S. sales. It
purchased Netherlands-based Packard Bell BV a year later.  Those acquisitions, and a focus on producing low-cost
computers, propelled Acer past  Dell Inc. (DELL)  to the No. 2 rank by
unit shipments in 2009, according to  Stamford , Connecticut-based
Gartner. Sales peaked at  NT$629 billion  ($21 billion) a year
later as the company shipped 39.9 million units, data compiled
by Bloomberg and Gartner show.  With an average selling price of $499.50, Acer’s PCs are
the cheapest among brand-name vendors, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  IPad Intrusion  The focus on keeping costs low and undercutting rivals on
price meant Acer eschewed research spending in favor of adopting
Wintel systems, Intel Corp.-based PCs using Microsoft Corp.’s
Windows operating software. With  Apple’s iPad  denting demand for
cheap PCs since it went on sale in 2010, the lack of new
technology has become a liability for Acer, said Christine Wang,
an analyst at Daiwa Securities Group Inc. in Taipei.  “In the past, Acer relied too heavily on contract
manufacturers to design their products, so all they had to
negotiate on was cost, cost and cost,” she said in a telephone
interview. “The feedback now is that their products are not
interesting and people don’t want to buy them, so they need
better products.”  Sales dropped 24 percent last year, leading Acer to post
its first  annual loss . The company’s shares have  tumbled  75
percent from a high reached on Jan. 15, 2010, leaving it valued
at NT$70.7 billion, or about $2.4 billion, yesterday.  Sales Discount  At its closing price of NT$26.15 yesterday, Acer is valued
at 0.15 times its sales of NT$469 billion in the twelve months
through June, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares
with a median of 0.45 times sales for 44 computer hardware
makers worth more than $1 billion, the data show. Asustek is
valued at 0.51 times, and Apple at 4.16 times.  The drop has made it an affordable target for Asustek, also
known by its brand name  Asus , said Roxy Wong, former head
technology analyst at Mirae Securities Co. in  Hong Kong , whose
research led him to the conclusion that a tie-up would be the
best option for Acer.  “We’re changing to a world where you can’t simply rely on
Wintel, there’s many alternatives now and you need R&D to have
production differentiation,” Wong said. “I’d been asking the
question: ‘Is there any way out for Acer?’ after their
management had focused on channel marketing and not on R&D. At
the same time Asustek requires a channel, which Acer offers, and
has strong research spending.”  Critical Components  Asustek, founded in 1990, is the largest manufacturer of
motherboards and graphics cards, critical components hidden
inside a computer, and in 2007 was the first company to develop
the netbook -- small, low-priced laptops that reignited the PC
market just as the global financial crisis crimped spending.  Also the first to release an  Ultrabook  -- a slim, metallic
notebook that mimics Apple’s MacBook Air -- Asustek developed
Google’s answer to the iPad, the Nexus 7 tablet, which began
shipping in July.  The product innovations stem from Asustek’s willingness to
spend on research and development. Last year, that spending
accounted for 2 percent of sales, compared with 0.24 percent at
Acer, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Acer yesterday released a
 statement  saying that it will focus on marketing over research
as it named a new chief marketing officer.  “In the product development stages, we will place
marketing ahead of R&D and design,” J.T. Wang, Acer’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  Ineffective Distribution  Though it is the fastest-growing large PC maker, with
shipments climbing 38.6 percent in the second quarter compared
with a 0.1 percent decline in the overall market, Asustek sold
less than two-thirds of the PCs Acer did, and half those of  No.
2 Lenovo Group Ltd. , according to Gartner.  “Asus doesn’t advertise or distribute its products in a
way that’s effective,” said Alberto Moel, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Bernstein. “What Asus brings to the table is strong
products and engineering. What Acer brings is distribution.”  Asustek, with a market value three times higher than
Acer’s, would likely fund an acquisition using its shares, said
Wong. The company, which is also planning to sell down its 24
percent stake in  Pegatron Corp. (4938) , a former manufacturing unit
that was spun off in 2010, could also tap some of the NT$60
billion of cash Acer held at the end of March, he said.  Cash Sources  The stake in Taipei-listed Pegatron, one of two
manufacturers of Apple’s iPhone, is worth about  NT$21 billion ,
while Asustek had another NT$66 billion in cash and short-term
investments at the end of March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A takeover of Acer would be bigger than any deal Asustek
has undertaken, with its largest acquisition to date a NT$8.7
billion purchase of network equipment maker Askey Computer Corp.
announced in 2005. If it fetches the average 27 percent premium
paid in computer takeovers worth more than $100 million over the
past decade, Acer would cost almost NT$90 billion.  “They may not have the kind of management required to pull
it off,” Moel said of Asustek. “In such a deal, management
needs to make tough decisions.”  Still, what it does have is the technology Acer needs to
revive its flagging sales, said Wong.  “Asustek is one of the few companies in Taiwan that has
the engineering capability to join with Acer and give it the
technology it needs,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 