-- AT&T to Take On Apple, Verizon With Flagship Chicago Shop
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-08-30T23:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/at-t-to-take-on-apple-verizon-with-flagship-chicago-shop.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  is refining its retail
strategy with its first flagship store, a location on Chicago’s
Michigan Avenue that goes beyond phones and tablets to show
services such as fitness applications and “smartcar” features.  The 10,000-square-foot (929-square-meter) store, opening
Sept. 1 in the shopping mecca known as Chicago’s “Magnificent
Mile,” is three times larger than the average of the company’s
2,300 retail outlets. Located across the street from Coach Inc.
and Cartier Ltd. stores, it has cement floors, white plastic and
reclaimed teak furniture with more than 100 video displays.  With the loss of its exclusive agreement to sell  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and a saturated wireless market that makes it hard
to find new subscribers, Dallas-based AT&T is planning to use
its stores to gain an edge against Verizon Wireless,  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  and T-Mobile USA Inc. The move also pits AT&T
against the standard-bearer in consumer-electronics retail,
Apple itself.  “We are very different than Apple,” Paul Roth, AT&T’s
president of retail sales and services, said in an interview.
“In their stores, the product is the hero. This store is all
about the experience.”  The second-biggest U.S. wireless carrier is looking for
ways to show investors it’s a bargain. Investors are getting a
29 percent  discount  for AT&T compared to its telecommunications
peers on a price-to-earnings basis, up from 18 percent at the
end of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. AT&T
shares fell 0.4 percent to $36.69 today in  New York .  No Shadowing  Roth’s plan is to blend the hands-on approach of Apple
stores with a visually dazzling environment. He’s requiring
sales staff to greet visitors within 10 seconds or 10 feet after
they’ve entered the store, to make them welcome without
shadowing them, he said.  Emulating Apple doesn’t guarantee success.  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,  Nokia
Oyj (NOK1V) , Microsoft Corp. and Sony Corp. have each tested the brand-
centered retail approach, with mixed results. Nokia, the Espoo,
Finland-based mobile-phone maker, has shut stores in New York,
Chicago,  London  and Mexico City in the past three years after
starting its own retail chain in 2005.  AT&T has tried to give its store a customer-friendly
makeover before. In 2007, it opened its first “AT&T
Experience” store, a 5,000-square-foot Houston location with
sales kiosks and product demonstrations.  App Lounge  The Chicago flagship goes beyond the Experience concept,
which AT&T has dropped. At the front of the new store is an 18-
foot wall of video screens and an App Lounge where people can
use 55-inch monitors to test apps for Apple products or for
Google Inc.’s Android system. The shop’s open layout has a
series of “boutiques” where customers can see demonstrations
on how to prepare for the  Chicago  Marathon or examine the
texting safety features on a Nissan Leaf.  “Customers are overwhelmed by technology,” Roth said.
“They want to know less about the device and more about what it
can do for them.”  The store has 40 employees with as many as 30 on the sales
floor at one time, Roth said. There are no cash registers, with
staff using tablets or smartphones to make sales.  Flagship stores help companies immerse their customers in
everything they have to offer, said Michael Cote, a wireless
strategist with the  Cote Collaborative  in Chicago.  “These are branding opportunities more than retail
outlets,” Cote said. “And what’s important here is that AT&T
will be the first carrier to have an ‘experiential’ flagship
store on the Magnificent Mile.”  Verizon Overhaul  Verizon Wireless , which has a store about two blocks away
from AT&T on Michigan Avenue, has started an overhaul of its
stores to keep up with the trend in retail toward giving
customers more access to sample devices.  The nation’s largest wireless carrier plans to have 60
stores outfitted this year with a new look featuring white
interiors with blond wood, fewer counters separating staff from
customers and products displayed on tables instead of walls,
said Thomas Pica, a Verizon Wireless spokesman. The  Basking
Ridge , New Jersey-based company hasn’t designated a flagship
store, he said.  Sprint has had a flagship site in New York, prominently
located on the first floor of the angular Flatiron Building,
since 1997.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  unit T-Mobile’s flagship is also
in New York, near Times Square.  The model for success with a self-branded store is
Cupertino, California-based Apple, said Lee Peterson,  executive
vice president of creative services  at WD Partners, a retail
strategy and design company based in Dublin,  Ohio .  “There’s no magic bullet,” said Peterson, whose clients
include Best Buy Co. and Samsung Electronics Co. “Gimmickry
doesn’t work. Lounges don’t work. We try to convince clients
that it’s what the salesperson knows about the customer and the
product that matters.”  Apple, which  had  372 stores around the world at the end of
June, is preparing to introduce the next version of the iPhone
on Sept. 12, two people with knowledge of the company’s plans
said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  