-- Aussie Dollar Declines After Building Approvals Drop
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-08-30T07:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/aussie-kiwi-drop-to-one-month-low-as-fed-stimulus-bets-decline.html
Australia ’s dollar declined against
most of its major peers and the country’s bonds rose after a
government report showed July building approvals dropped more
than economists estimated.  The so-called Aussie fell to one-month low as evidence the
 U.S. economy  is improving dimmed prospects that Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will signal further stimulus when he
speaks tomorrow in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . New Zealand’s dollar
gained after a ANZ National Bank Ltd. survey showed the
country’s business confidence rose a second month in August on
optimism in the housing industry.  “The Aussie dollar has been far from closely resembling
the fundamentals for quite some time,” said Gavin Stacey, chief
rate strategist in Sydney at Barclays Plc. “The market seems to
be playing a little bit of catch-up” after the poor domestic
data, he said.  The Australian dollar touched $1.0318, the weakest since
July 26, before trading at $1.0329 as of 5:25 p.m. in Sydney,
0.2 percent below yesterday’s close in  New York . It lost 0.3
percent to 81.25 yen after earlier touching 81.14, also the
lowest since July 26.  New Zealand ’s dollar, known as the kiwi, added 0.1 percent
to 80.15 U.S. cents, after earlier falling as low as 80.01
cents, the weakest since July 27.  Australian 10-year bond  yields  fell for a 10th straight
day, poised for the longest stretch of declines since at least
1990, when Bloomberg began compiling daily data. The yield was
at 3.12 percent after earlier falling as much as eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 3.11 percent, the lowest
since Aug. 3.  Building Approvals  In Australia, the number of  permits  granted to build or
renovate houses and apartments declined 17.3 percent in July
from a month earlier, the country’s statistics bureau said
today. That was more than three times the median forecast of a 5
percent drop in a  Bloomberg News  survey of 18 economists.  The Australian dollar has fallen 3.1 percent in the past
month, the worst performance among 10 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. New Zealand’s dollar
weakened 2.2 percent over the same period, the second-biggest
loser.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, fell three basis points to 2.67 percent.
It earlier dropped to 2.63 percent, the lowest since July 27.  An ANZ National Bank survey showed a net 19.5 percent of
companies polled in New Zealand expect the economy to improve in
the next 12 months, up from 15.1 percent in July. The net
figures, which subtract pessimists from optimists, are
recovering from a 15-month low in June.  U.S. Growth  Demand for the South Pacific nations’ currencies was
limited before U.S. data forecast to show initial jobless claims
fell and personal spending rebounded.  Consumer spending  probably
climbed 0.5 percent in July after being unchanged in June,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the Commerce Department releases figures
today. A separate poll shows applications for jobless benefits
may drop for the first time in three weeks.  A Fed report yesterday said that the world’s largest
economy continued to expand “gradually.” A strengthening
economic outlook would reduce pressure on the Fed to add to
monetary easing, a process which tends to debase the U.S.
currency.  “I suspect what we will hear from Bernanke is a familiar
line that they are prepared to take further action if needed,
but that he is not going to declare action just yet,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in
Sydney. “The Aussie is looking very tired.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  