-- Australia Says 120 Refugees May Have Drowned Off Indonesia
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-08-30T08:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/australia-says-140-refugees-may-have-drowned-off-indonesia-1-.html
More than 120 asylum seekers may
have drowned off  Indonesia , according to the Australian
government, which is reopening offshore detention centers in an
attempt to deter refugees from attempting the boat journey.  “There were up to 150 people that were aboard this
vessel,” which is believed to have sunk, Home Minister Jason Clare told reporters in Sydney today. “There is a massive
search and rescue effort going on right now just off the coast
of Indonesia.”  The HMAS Maitland has recovered 16 people, the Australian
Maritime Saftey Authority said in a  statement  on its website.
Six survivors were recovered by a merchant vessel earlier today.  Almost 1,000 asylum seekers, often from war-torn Middle
Eastern and South Asian nations, are known to have drowned in
the waters between Indonesia and  Australia  since 2001. While the
number of people seeking asylum in Australia is dwarfed by
applications to the U.S., the issue has dogged Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s government, which is clawing back from near
record-low approval ratings before elections due next year.  The fatalities, which have ramped up in the past three
years, this month spurred Gillard to reverse her previous stance
by passing legislation to send asylum seekers arriving by boat
to camps on the South Pacific island of  Nauru  and  Papua New
Guinea  for processing.  Nauru Deal  Gillard, in the  Cook Islands  for the Pacific Islands Forum,
signed a memorandum of understanding with Nauru to establish a
processing center, she said in an e-mailed statement today.  The arrangement “sends a clear message that countries in
this region are working together towards a lasting regional
response in taking action necessary to undermine people
smuggling networks, stop those dangerous boat journeys and
prevent the loss of life at sea,” she said.  The shift in policy was criticized by human rights
campaigners who said the new laws were arbitrary and
discriminatory. About 604 people lost their lives since October
2009, according to an independent report presented to the
government this month.  The minority Labor government has also come under attack
from the Liberal-National opposition as increasing numbers of
refugees pay Indonesian smugglers to ferry them in overcrowded
boats to Australia.  Pacific Solution  Processing refugees in Papua New Guinea and Nauru marks a
return to former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s so-called Pacific
Solution that was scrapped after Labor won office in 2007.  While asylum seekers have been arriving by boat in
Australia since the  Vietnam War  in the 1970s, the issue became
more politicized about a decade ago when Howard’s Liberal-
National government detained refugees, including children, in
offshore processing camps or in detention centers in remote
areas.  Some asylum seekers responded to their detention with
riots, suicides and by sewing their lips together to protest,
with a United Nations report released in 2002 saying their
treatment was “inhumane and degrading.”  In August 2001, Howard refused to allow 430 asylum seekers
on the MV Tampa, a Norwegian freighter, to enter Australian
waters and ordered soldiers to board the ship. His bid to deter
people smugglers included orders to the Navy to “turn back the
boats,” a phrase current Liberal-National leader  Tony Abbott 
repeats today as opposition policy.  Abbott has blamed Labor’s closing of the camps for a rise
in the number of refugee boats arriving and fatalities.  The nation received 15,441 asylum applications last year,
compared with 60,587 in the U.S. and 43,759 for  Sweden ,
according to the Refugee Council of Australia. While the
political debate is focused on so-called boat people, 6,316
people seeking asylum in 2010-11 arrived in Australia by air,
compared with 5,175 by boat, the council says.  Under laws passed Aug. 17, Australia will increase its
annual refugee intake to 20,000 from about 13,700 now. Gillard
intends to start processing of refugees at Nauru and Papua New
Guinea next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  