-- Australia Home-Building Permits Fall by Most in Almost a Decade
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-30T04:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/australia-home-building-permits-fell-more-than-forecast-in-july.html
Australian home-building  approvals 
declined in July by the most in almost a decade as mining
dominated business investment last quarter, underscoring the
nation’s two-speed economy.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments slumped 17.3 percent from June, when they fell a
revised 1 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. That was the steepest slide since November 2002. Separate
data on business spending showed mining investment rose by 10
percent last quarter, while manufacturing declined by 3.8
percent and other industries by 4 percent.  Reserve Bank of  Australia  Governor Glenn Stevens has kept
the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for the past two meetings
and said last week policy makers are prepared to respond should
the economy slow, predicting that the nation’s mining investment
boom has at least another year before easing. A pipeline of
resource projects has driven up the currency and hurt
manufacturing, retail and tourism industries.  Today’s data “is a literal dog’s breakfast,” said  Craig James , a senior economist at a unit of  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia. (CBA)  “Business spending was up, but dominated by mining.
Investment plans are healthy but cracks have appeared. And
residential building remains in the doldrums.”  Apartment Permits Slump  Permits to build private houses rose 1.6 percent to 7,329
in July from the previous month, the report showed. Approvals
for apartments and renovations slumped 40.5 percent to 3,738.  The central bank lowered borrowing costs by a total of 50
basis points late last year and a further 75 basis points in May
and June to help shield the economy from  Europe ’s debt crisis
and slower growth in  China . It held the key rate at 3.5 percent,
the highest among major developed economies, at the past two
meetings.  The reductions in rates have resulted in borrowing costs
“a little below their medium-term averages,” Stevens told a
parliamentary panel in Canberra on Aug. 24.  Australian companies forecast investment of A$181.5 billion
($187.4 billion) in the year ending June 30, which was 4.7
percent higher than their estimate three months earlier, the
capital expenditure report showed. Mining investment was
estimated at A$119 billion, little changed from A$119.3 billion
three months earlier.  ‘Weak’ Report  “Australia’s long-running two-speed economy theme remains
intact,” said Alvin Pontoh, an Asia-Pacific strategist at TD
Securities Inc. in  Singapore , who noted that mining investment
estimates are usually increased at this time of year. “As this
upgrade was absent, this report could be read as weak,” he
said.  The Australian dollar extended losses against all 16 major
peers after the data. It touched $1.0318, the weakest since July
26, before trading at $1.0324 as of 1:34 p.m. in Sydney.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest miner, last week
mothballed projects valued at more than A$50 billion by Credit
Suisse Group AG and Deutsche Bank AG. At the same time,
Australia’s resources minister called the end of a bull run in
commodity prices.  Today’s building approvals data showed permits in July
declined 10.6 percent from a year earlier. That compares with
economists’ forecast for a 6 percent increase year-over-year.  A private report this week showed sales of newly built
homes dropped to the second-lowest level on record in July.  Sales fell 5.6 percent to 5,682 last month from June, when
they gained 2.8 percent, the Housing Industry Association said
Aug. 28, citing a survey of the nation’s largest builders.
Detached house sales decreased 5.5 percent to the lowest level
since 2000, while apartments weakened 6.4 percent, it showed.  Traders are pricing in an 80 percent chance the RBA will
keep rates unchanged at its policy meeting next week, swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The  Reserve Bank  certainly has some work on its hands to
disentangle the various parts of the economy,” James said.
“Mining states remain in strong shape, but non-mining states
aren’t investing or building new homes. Clearly the Reserve Bank
needs to keep rate cuts on the agenda.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  