-- Australia Growth Cushion Deflates as Aussie Keeps Gains: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-30T09:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/australia-growth-cushion-deflates-as-aussie-keeps-gains-economy.html
Australia ’s currency, historically a
shock absorber for the world’s 13th-largest economy, may be
losing some of its elasticity, increasing the likelihood that
the central bank will consider cutting  interest rates .  The so-called Aussie remains up for the year even as
Australia’s No. 1 customer,  China , sees a deepening slowdown and
falling prices for  iron ore  and coking coal erode the nation’s
terms of trade -- a measure of windfall gains from exports that
reached a 140-year high last year.  Resilience in the currency, supported by its increasing use
in foreign-exchange reserves amid global financial strains,
deprives Australian exporters of the competitiveness provided
from exchange-rate depreciation should economic growth slow.
Declines in the Aussie in 2008, 2001 and 1998 helped Australia
maintain its recession-free record since the early 1990s.  “What you would expect it to do is fluctuate with export
commodity prices in particular and provide a kind of automatic
stabilizer,” said Ray Attrill, global co-head of foreign-
exchange strategy at  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  in Sydney.
“If that mechanism is no longer working, then, arguably the RBA
would have to say ‘well now we have a currency problem that we
have to deal with’” at some point, he said. For now, “they
don’t think there’s a problem,” he said.  Traders are pricing in a 75 percent chance that the  Reserve
Bank  of Australia will cut borrowing costs by another 50 basis
points by year-end to 3 percent, matching the 50-year low the
benchmark reached at the height of the global financial crisis.  Surprising Stevens  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  told lawmakers last week he was
“a little surprised” at the Aussie. The currency was at
$1.0329 as of 5:25 p.m. in Sydney, up 1.2 percent for the year.
It has climbed 72 percent from its global credit-crunch low of
60.09 U.S. cents in October 2008, making it the best performer
of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The local dollar’s strength has propelled it to the widest
divergence in more than a decade from Australia’s terms of trade,
and also left it out of step with a drop in government bond
yields.  “Historically, we were places you ran away from when risk
was perceived as growing,” Stevens said in Canberra Aug. 24.
“Official flows” into the Aussie recently have bolstered the
currency, he said, referring to central banks and other
government institutions that typically are “not usually the
most adventurous” of investors.  Recession Risk  Meantime, the Chinese slowdown and drop in commodity prices
may send the nation’s terms of trade down as much as 15 percent
in the final three months of 2012 compared with a year earlier,
Deutsche Bank AG economists said last week. In the past half
century, such a decline occurred five times, with three of the
episodes resulting in a recession.  A government report today underscored a slowdown in the
nation’s housing market, with building approvals tumbling 17.3
percent in July from a month before, the most in almost a decade.
A separate release showed that business investment rose 3.4
percent in the second quarter from the previous three months,
less than half the prior gain.  The RBA next sets rates Sept. 4, and is seen holding its
fire for now, with 19 of 20 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  predicting the bank will hold the benchmark rate at 3.5
percent, the highest among major developed nations.  While Australia has benefited from trade ties to the region
that’s led the world economy in recent years, Asia-Pacific
nations haven’t been immune to the global slowdown. The
Philippines today reported its gross domestic product rose 5.9
percent in the second quarter from a year before, down from a
revised 6.3 percent advance in January-to-March.  Korean Confidence  South Korea  reported today manufacturers’ confidence for
September stayed near the lowest level since the 2007-2009 world
credit crunch.  Japan ’s retail sales fell more than economists
forecast in July.  Elsewhere, European Commission data reiterated confidence
in the euro area is at the lowest in more than three years this
month.  Germany , which has benefitted from declines in the euro
that have bolstered its export competitiveness, said the
adjusted jobless rate was unchanged at 6.8 percent in August.  After growing more than previously estimated in the second
quarter, the  U.S. economy  may show more signs of improvement.
Initial jobless claims probably fell last week, while personal
spending climbed in July by the most in five months, surveys
indicated before reports due today.  Cinderella Currency  Europe ’s debt woes have propelled demand for the Aussie,
making it “the Cinderella in what is a world’s least-ugly
contest” among currencies, said Jarrod Kerr, director of
Australia rates strategy at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Singapore .
At the same time, a more pronounced global crisis would probably
send the local dollar lower, he said.  “We’ve had this kind of structural shift higher,” Kerr
said. “It will definitely fall. No question in that scenario.
But it will probably be in the 80s not the 60s.” He predicts
the currency will trade in a band of 95 U.S. cents to $1.06,
barring a major offshore shock.  Switzerland ’s central bank is among those piling into the
Aussie, according to the RBA. As a share of the reserves whose
allocations are reported to the  International Monetary Fund ,
holdings of “other currencies” -- a category that includes the
Canadian and Australian dollars -- reached 5.2 percent in the
first quarter, compared with 2 percent five years earlier.  Historical Cushion  The Aussie tumbled 20 percent in 2008 as the accelerating
collapse of the U.S. mortgage market triggered a freeze in
credit and the deepest global recession in the postwar period.
As the U.S. slid into contraction after its technology-bubble
burst in 2001, the Australian currency lost 8.8 percent, on top
of a 15 percent decline the year before. Over the 1997-1998
Asian financial crisis, it depreciated 23 percent.  Richard Grace , chief currency strategist and head of
international economics at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  in
Sydney, said one reason the currency is disconnecting this time
is that it failed to keep pace with commodity export prices on
the way up.  “The Australian dollar never followed the terms of trade
right to its peak, so when the terms of trade started to come
down a bit, then it was less of a force driving the Australian
dollar down,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ; 