-- Australian Business Investment Rose Last Quarter on Mining Plans
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-30T01:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/australian-business-investment-rose-last-quarter-on-mining-plans.html
Australian business investment rose
more than economists forecast in the second quarter as an
increase by mining companies outpaced a decline in spending by
manufacturers.  Capital expenditures gained 3.4 percent from the first
three months of the year, when the figure rose a revised 7.7
percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. That
compares with the median forecast for a 3 percent gain in a
Bloomberg News survey of 17 economists.  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  said last
week that policy makers are prepared to respond in the event the
economy slows, predicting the nation’s mining investment boom
has at least another year before easing. A pipeline of resource
projects has driven up the nation’s currency and damaged
manufacturing, retail and tourism industries, producing what
policy makers have called a “two-speed” economy.  “The cap-ex picture will continue to be dominated by the
two-speed story,” Michael Blythe, chief economist in Sydney at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , said in a research report before
the release. “Non-mining investment plans remain quite weak,
while mining investment intentions continue to be above average.
The outlook for mining investment remains strong even as some
mining companies have adopted a more cautious approach,” he
said.  Spending on buildings and structures rose 4.8 percent in
the second quarter, today’s report showed. Company investment in
new plant and equipment advanced 1.2 percent.  2012-13 Spending  Australian companies forecast investment of A$181.5 billion
($187.3 billion) in the year ending June 30, which was 4.7
percent higher than their estimate three months earlier, the
report showed.  Australia’s currency has risen about 16 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  in the past two years, the best performer among the
16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, propelled by a mining
boom as urbanization in  China  drives demand for  iron ore ,
liquefied natural gas and coal.  Australia’s central bank lowered borrowing costs by a total
of 50 basis points late last year and a further 75 basis points
in May and June to help shield the economy from  Europe ’s debt
crisis and slower growth in China. It held the key rate at 3.5
percent, the highest among major developed economies, at the
past two meetings.  The reductions in rates have resulted in borrowing costs
“a little below their medium-term averages,” Stevens told a
parliamentary panel in Canberra on Aug. 24.  Factory Slump  The resource projects pipeline is spurring companies to
increase hiring and helping cushion a slump in manufacturing and
services.  Chevron Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Woodside Petroleum
Ltd. and ConocoPhillips are among energy companies spending $180
billion to explore and develop gas fields in Australia.  Rio Tinto Group said in April that it has begun a four-
month recruitment drive to hire 6,000 workers for A$22 billion
of projects in  Western Australia , the  Northern Territory ,
Queensland and New South Wales.  Australia’s unemployment rate has remained in a range of 5
percent to 5.3 percent for the past 15 months. The economy added
jobs in four of the past five months and unemployment declined
to 5.2 percent in July from a revised 5.3 percent in the prior
month, a government report showed Aug. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  