-- Lawson Sees Five-Year Profit Jump Selling Coffee
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2012-08-31T09:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/lawson-sees-five-year-profit-jump-selling-coffee-fried-c.html
Lawson Inc. (2651) , Japan’s second-largest
convenience-store chain, is betting wider offerings of higher-
margin fried chicken and hot coffee will lure customers from
competitors and boost earnings 62 percent in five years.  The  company  expects to boost operating profit to 100
billion yen ($1.3 billion) in about five years from a record
61.8 billion yen in the year ended Feb. 29, aided by sales of
higher margin products such as fast food, Chief Financial
Officer Yoshiyuki Yahagi said in an interview in Tokyo.  Lawson, which added fresh fruits and vegetables to its
offerings in 2005, is expanding its line of hot food such as
coffee and fried chicken that will be prepared inside the outlet
and are more profitable. Lawson’s  operating margin  of 13 percent
in the year ended February topped 7.3 percent at its larger
competitor  Seven & I Holdings Co. (3382)  and 4.2 percent at supermarket
operator and Japan’s largest retailer  Aeon Co. (8267) , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We call fresh food magnets -- a tool to attract more
customers,” Yahagi said on Aug. 29. “Fresh food has lower
margin, but we want customers to buy a dish of hot ready-made
food along with it.”  The stock gained as much as 2.9 percent to 6,060 yen in
Tokyo today before closing up 1.9 percent. It was the second
biggest gainer on the Nikkei 300 index, which lost 1.7 percent.  The convenience store operator aims to raise the margin of
such a basket to as much as 43 percent over the next five years
from about 38 percent, Yahagi said.  Wooing Women  The convenience store chain aims to boost operating profit
by more than 7 percent annually, Yahagi said. That estimate is
“conservative” said,  Mitsushige Akino ,  executive director  at
Tokyo-based Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. “They can achieve
that.”  The company’s  operating income  rose 11.2 percent in the
year ended February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The retailer is trying to woo diversified customers such as
women and elderly people who did not frequent the stores
earlier.  In May, it started to sell smaller servings of fried
chicken to lure more customers away from supermarkets. Lawson
sells a piece of chicken starting at 45 yen, according to a May
24 press release. It also added hot coffee to attract more
women.  Competition Intensity  “Lawson is moving in the right direction in terms of
increasing profitability by increasing food that they cook
inside the store,” said Satoshi Yuzaki, Tokyo-based general
manager at Takagi Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “However, rivals are
doing similar things so the competition may intensify.”  Seven & I’s Seven Eleven chain and Aeon supermarkets offer
hot food as well.  Lawson had 5,085 outlets selling fresh vegetables as of
February, which helped attract more women and the elderly,
according to a presentation made by the company in April.  It plans to increase the number of such stores to 6,220 by
February next year, the retailer said. The company operates a
total of 10,457 stores in Japan as of February.  The retailer forecasts sales will rise 5 percent to 503
billion yen for the year ending in February 2013, while net
income will increase 34 percent to 33.4 billion yen, it had said
in April.  Operating profit will gain 6.8 percent to 66 billion yen in
the period, the company said. That’s lower than the 67.2 billion
yen average of 17  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The efforts to increase margins comes amid a decline in
same-store sales in  Japan ’s convenience store industry for two
consecutive months in July and June as competition intensifies.  Sales at Japan’s convenience stores declined 3.3 percent in
July from a year ago on a same-store basis, according to the
Japan Franchise Association. This follows a 2.6 percent fall
from the year earlier in June, it said. Sales expanded at a
slower pace amid lower summer temperatures this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  