-- Leumi Bad Loan Provisions Rise Fivefold as Profit Halves
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-08-30T13:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/bad-loan-provisions-rise-fivefold-as-leumi-bank-profit-halves.html
Bank Leumi Le-Israel (LUMI)  Ltd. set aside
almost five times as much cash in the second quarter as it did a
year earlier to cover bad loans amid increased concern companies
will be unable to repay debts as the economy slows.  Bad debt provisions at  Israel ’s largest bank by assets rose
to 333 million shekels ($82 million) from 73 million shekels a
year earlier, the Tel Aviv-based bank said in an statement.
Profit fell 50 percent to 280 million shekels, trailing the mean
analysts’ estimates of 455 million shekels.  Bank Hapoalim Ltd. (POLI) ,
the second-largest bank, said net income fell 15 percent to 607
million shekels, less than the 610 million shekels mean estimate
of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The big banks are struggling,” Terence Klingman, head of
research at Psagot Investment House Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said today
by phone. “We fear they will have to continue increasing
provisions for loan losses also in coming quarters as the whiff
of debt settlement hovers over big lenders,” Klingman added in
an e-mailed note today.  Israeli companies will struggle to roll over maturing
liabilities to pay obligations coming due in 12 months, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a report on May 8, the same day it cut
the outlook on the nation’s banks to negative from stable.
Economic growth is expected to slow to 3.1 percent this year,
from 4.8 percent in 2011, according to central bank estimates.  Economic Slowdown  The  Bank of Israel  kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged for the second consecutive month on Aug. 27 at 2.25
percent, as it seeks to shore up the economy. It has gradually
been reducing the rate from 3.25 percent.  The central bank said it will probably lower its domestic
growth forecast of 3.4 percent for next year in September. About
40 percent of gross domestic product is made up of exports, with
 Europe  and the U.S. representing the country’s largest markets.  Leumi’s profit was also affected by a drop in the value of
its stake in  Partner Communications Ltd. (PTNR) , Israel’s second-
largest mobile phone operator, whose shares slumped 45 percent
in the three-month period as competition in the market
increased.  Bad Debt  The bank’s bad debt provisions stem from at least 1 billion
shekels in loans it’s given to big borrowers such as  Tao Tsuot
Ltd. (TAO) ,  Delek Real Estate Ltd. (DLKR)  and Ganden Holdings Ltd., financial
news website TheMarker said on Aug. 21 without saying where it
got the information.  More than 30 Israeli companies sought debt forgiveness
since 2011 as refinancing costs rose and growth slowed, the
Israel Securities Authority said in a July 1 report.
Nonperforming loans may increase to 5 percent of the total by
mid-2013 from 3.8 percent in September, according to Moody’s
Investors Service Inc., amid the biggest wave of restructures in
three years.  Leumi’s net return on equity was 4.7 percent for the
quarter, falling from 10.3 percent in the year-earlier period.  “The bank has the lowest return on equity in the sector,”
Psagot’s Klingman said.  Hapoalim’s put aside 344 million shekels for bad loans in
the quarter, from 327 million shekels a year earlier. Psagot cut
the rating for the bank to “hold” from “buy” after the
release of the results.  At  Israel Discount Bank Ltd. (DSCT) , the country’s third-largest
lender, provisions declined to 118 million from 188 million
shekels a year ago as profit fell to 165 million shekels from
229 million shekels, less than the mean estimate of 182 million
shekels by three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Leumi dropped 1.8 percent to 9.2 shekels at the close in in
Tel Aviv, trimming this month’s gain to 2.6 percent.  Hapoalim
 fell  1.8 percent to 12.35 shekels, cutting its August advance to
7.1 percent. Discount added 0.7 percent, bringing this month’s
climb to 13 percent. The  Tel Aviv Banking Index (TABANK)  has  dropped  8
percent since the beginning of the year compared with a 3.2
percent advance for the benchmark  TA-25 (TA-25)  measure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net   LUMI IT <Equity>
POLI IT <Equity>
DLKR IT <Equity>
TAO IT <Equity> 