-- Baloise Net Climbs 7.7% on Investment Income, Non-Life Gains
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-08-30T07:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/baloise-net-climbs-7-7-on-investment-income-non-life-gains-1-.html
Baloise Holding AG (BALN) ,  Switzerland ’s
third-biggest insurer, said first-half profit rose 7.7 percent
after increases in non-life earnings and investment income.  Net income climbed to 218.9 million Swiss francs ($229
million), from 203.3 million francs a year earlier, beating the
192.9 million-franc average estimate of nine analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. The  shares  rose as much at 0.9 percent in Zurich
trading and were up 0.1 percent to 69.40 francs at 9:17 a.m.  Baloise, which said in March that its return-on-equity
target of 15 percent is under review after declining interest
rates and stock markets led to a loss on investments, posted a
20 percent increase in first-half investment income. The  tax
rate  fell to 15 percent from 18 percent.  “The first-half result is a good step forward toward an
earnings stabilization,” Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-based
analyst with  Vontobel Holding AG (VONN)  who has a hold rating on the
stock, said in a note to investors. “The result beats our and
the street’s expectations, helped by non-life reserve releases
and higher-than-expected net realized gains.”  The company changed its equity portfolio, selling  index
funds  and buying more shares that pay high dividends, which led
to realized gains of 114 million francs, said Chief Financial
Officer German Egloff. Writedowns have reached a “relatively
normal level again,” he added on a conference call.  Operating profit at the non-life unit, which sells mainly
car insurance, rose 32 percent to 213.7 million francs after
higher sales and a positive development of prior-year claims
leading to reserve releases. The combined ratio, a measure of
profitability, improved to 92.6 percent from 93 percent.  The results “are primarily attributable to the impressive
operating performance of our non-life business and the
significant improvement in our investment income,” Chief
Executive Officer Martin Strobel said in the statement. “Our
strength enables us to look to the future with confidence, and
we will continue to pay an attractive dividend.”  The insurer targets a new business margin of at least 10
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  