-- Bank Property Lending Retreat a Lehman Legacy: Mortgages
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t ,   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-08-31T09:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/bank-property-lending-retreat-a-lehman-legacy-mortgages.html
For  J.H. Snyder Co.  to start
building a $197 million Los Angeles apartment complex in June,
the developer cobbled together funds from two city agencies, a
mezzanine lender and a pension fund to help fill a 63 percent
funding gap left by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s construction loan.  “The structuring of this deal has been one of the most
complex I’ve seen,” Thomas Dujovne, chief investment officer at
Los Angeles-based J.H. Snyder, and a 17-year veteran of the
industry, said in a telephone interview.  Snyder’s 397,000-square-foot (37,000 square meters)
residential and retail project is typical of a broken funding
market globally for commercial real estate construction. Banks
are cutting lending from Sydney to London to Los Angeles as they
cope with the after-effects of the 2008 financial crisis that’s
left them with debt arranged before property markets crashed,
and as they navigate Europe’s fiscal issues.  That’s restraining construction and forcing developers to
fill the funding gap by turning to real estate investment trusts
such as  Starwood Property Trust Inc. (STWD) , sovereign wealth funds and
public pension funds, even if it means greater risk, higher
costs and additional time to arrange financing.  The amount of new lending for European commercial real
estate fell by about 77 percent from 2007 through 2011,
according to estimates from Michael Haddock, research director
for  CBRE (CBG)  Group Inc. That’s partly because banks are only willing
to lend on more conservative loan-to-value ratios and also
because some investors have bought properties using little or no
debt, Haddock said in a telephone interview.  Australian Lending  The withdrawal of banks from commercial-property lending in
 Australia  is the “most significant change” since the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 froze credit markets,
the  Reserve Bank  of Australia  said  in May. Australian banks have
cut outstanding loans for commercial real estate by 15 percent
since the peak in 2009, the central bank said.  Outstanding housing and land development lending in China
by major financial institutions slowed on an annual basis for
three consecutive years starting in 2009, according to the
 People’s Bank of China .  As bank credit has tightened, real estate trusts, which
attract money from wealthy Chinese to property projects by
offering higher returns, more than doubled from the level on
March 31, 2010, to 605.2 billion  yuan  ($95.3 billion) as of June
30, 2011, and further climbed to 675.1 billion yuan as of June
30, 2012, according to Ping An Trust & Investment Co.  Market Specific  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, construction and
development loans on the books of the 7,307 banks backed by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. totaled $228.3 billion in the
first quarter, a 23 percent decrease from the year earlier.  “Construction funding today is market specific, sponsor
specific and project-type specific,” Bruce Beal Jr., executive
vice president of New York-based Related Cos., said in a
telephone interview. “When capital was easily available, banks
were eager to lend. Today, money to fill that funding gap is
coming from a variety of places.”  J.H. Snyder’s 464-unit residential-and-retail project in
 Los Angeles  was financed in part by JPMorgan’s $72.5 million
construction loan. J.H. Snyder and Washington Capital
Management, a Seattle-based pension- fund manager , provided $41
million in equity, according to Dujovne.  They also stitched together a $12.5 million loan from the
city of Los Angeles and a $5 million loan from the local
Community Redevelopment Agency. Canada’s Bentall Kennedy, which
is partly owned by the  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System  and British Columbia Investment Management Corp.,
provided $66 million in mezzanine debt, which is secured by a
stake in the development.  Chicago Skyscraper  In Chicago, Hines, an international property investor, is
building a 45-story building with help from Canada’s Caisse de
Depot et Placement du Quebec, through its real estate investment
arm Ivanhoe Cambridge. The $300 million skyscraper, constructed
downtown on the western bank of the Chicago River at Lake
Street, will be the city’s biggest real estate project in the
past five years, according to Mayor  Rahm Emanuel .  The tower, being built without debt, will sit on land co-
owned by a Hines joint venture, giving it a 15 percent stake in
the investment. The pension will hold the rest. Hines declined
to comment on whether it had looked for financing from banks or
other lenders before striking a deal with the pension fund, said
spokesman Eric Gerard with New York-based Great Ink
Communications.  CBRE Loans  “The availability of construction debt is far less than
it’s ever been,” said Brian Stoffers, chief operating officer
of broker CBRE’s capital-markets unit and president of its debt
and equity finance divisions, based in Houston.  CBRE, based in Los Angeles, arranged 18 U.S. construction
loans totaling about $500 million in the first half of this
year, down from 35 development loans totaling $1.5 billion in
the first half of 2007. Most of the loans this year capped off
at about 55 percent to 60 percent of total development costs,
according to Stoffers. That’s down from loan-to-values of about
74 percent at the peak of the commercial real estate market, in
2007, he said.  A pullback by banks means firms can earn returns of 10
percent to 12 percent for mezzanine construction financing,
according to Boyd Fellows, president of Greenwich, Connecticut-
based Starwood Property.  The REIT, founded by  Barry Sternlicht , provided a $170
million first, senior mortgage in May for One Soho Square in
downtown Manhattan. The initial funding of $135 million with the
balance available for future tenant improvements will be used to
gut and renovate an office building into an office-and-retail
property.  Boston, Washington  The firm is also looking for construction-funding
opportunities in large cities such as Boston and Washington, and
will soon complete mezzanine funding for a residential
development in London, Fellows said.  It’s less likely to run into competition from banks. In the
U.K., banks for the first time in at least 11 years are
unwilling to finance development projects without a tenant
committed to lease space or a buyer for the completed property,
according to a study by De Montfort University. One in three
lenders in the U.K. didn’t make a single commercial property
loan last year, Bill Maxted and Trudi Porter said in a survey by
the university published in May.  That shortfall is being filled more frequently from the
Middle East. Development finance “seemed to ramp up quite
steeply” about two years ago, said Peter Rees, chief planning
officer at the  City of London . The Shard, across the river
Thames from London’s financial district, is an example “of the
sort of thing that Middle Eastern sovereign-wealth funds were
looking for. They wanted something showy.”  Qatar Fund  Qatar’s central bank owns 95 percent of the tower, and
 Qatar National Bank (QNBS) , 50 percent owned by the country’s
sovereign-wealth fund, provided an undisclosed amount of funding
for its construction.  The tower and its neighboring London building, The Place,
together may be worth about 2.5 billion pounds ($3.96 billion)
when they are fully leased, said  Irvine  Sellar, chairman of
Sellar Property Group Ltd., which owns 5 percent of the
building. The properties will cost about 1.5 billion pounds to
construct, including land costs and interest on the debt.  “Development has the balance of risk and reward,” Sellar
said. There is debt available for new buildings “but not nearly
as much as in normal times. It’s limited and it’s mainly
concentrated on residential.”  European Banks  Normal speculative development completion patterns are not
likely to return to Europe for the next five years, Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. said in an Aug. 28 note.  Europe’s banks have as much as 2.4 trillion euros ($3
trillion) of loans outstanding to real estate companies,
accounting for about 10 percent of the loans on their books,
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  wrote in a March 15 research note. They’ll cut
their exposure by as much as 600 billion euros, the bank
estimated, as they work to meet proposed capital regulations
under an agreement approved by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , or Basel III, and deal with Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis. That will open up opportunities for “niche players,”
according to the Morgan Stanley note.  Financing such as that provided by pension and sovereign-
wealth funds tends to mature later than the five-year loans
given by banks, Rees said. Axa Real Estate Investment Managers
will give loans for as long as seven years, according to
Isabelle Scemama, head of commercial real-estate finance at the
fund manager.  Alternative Funding  Alternative funding often comes at a higher cost for
developers than what conventional construction lenders used to
charge, according to Chris Mutch, a real estate director at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. They “will add premiums for
development more so than what the banks did, whether through
fees or interest margin,” Mutch, who is advising funds raising
money for real estate investment, said in an e-mail.  “ Interest rates  will inevitably rise, stoked by current
quantitative easing programs and an eventual economic
recovery,” Benoit du Passage, managing director of Jones Lang
for France and southern Europe, said in the August note.
Constructing office buildings may be “more stable” than other
types of development because of the financial strength of
tenants. “Some developers may look back in a few years and
reflect on a missed opportunity if they don’t act quickly,” he
said.  Financing Costs  In Australia, the cost of financing is also higher -- about
8.5 percent on average, compared with about 6 percent for bank
debt, according to Peter Icklow, chief executive officer of
Sydney-based property developer  Monarch Investments .  A lack of financing has contributed to the value of
 building work  dropping by 5.8 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, according to the latest data from the  Australian
Bureau of Statistics .  It has also led to a drop in permits for new construction
in Australia. The value of approvals for future building work
slumped 19.5 percent in July, extending a 11 percent decline in
the two years to ended June 30, statistics bureau  data  shows.  Perpetual Ltd. (PPT)  and Balmain Funds Management are among those
raising capital from institutions to lend to local real estate
companies for acquisitions and to commercial and residential
developers.  Monarch Investments received its first investment from a
debt syndicate at the end of 2011. Two funds representing
private investors have injected a total of A$7 million ($7.2
million) into projects worth A$15 million being developed by
Monarch, CEO Icklow said. The company is in talks with other
funds on investments of A$20 million to A$50 million, he said,
declining to name the potential investors.  Target Raised  Balmain is seeking as much as A$500 million in a joint
venture with investment adviser Brookvine Pty to lend to real
estate developers and companies that own and manage commercial
real estate,  Michael Holm , executive chairman of Balmain, said
in an interview in Sydney. That’s double its initial target, he
said.  “Investors are now starting to put their toes in the
water,” Monarch’s Icklow said in an interview. “Without them
we wouldn’t be doing any new development.”  Seeking new sources of financing adds to the time it takes
to start a project, which can jeopardize profits, said  Richard Green , director of the University of Southern California’s  Lusk
Center for Real Estate  in Los Angeles.  “If you have equity partners, you as the developer don’t
get paid until you meet certain benchmarks,” Green said in a
telephone interview. “And the longer it takes to arrange
financing, the longer it will take to start building, the longer
you go without renting and the longer you need to hit those
benchmarks. Every day eats away at a developer’s profits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  