-- Bank of Cyprus First-Half Loss Widens on Provisions, Bonds
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-08-30T15:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/bank-of-cyprus-first-half-loss-widens-on-provisions-bonds-1-.html
Bank of Cyprus Pcl , the island’s
largest lender, said its first-half loss widened by 25 percent
after increasing provisions for bad loans and reducing the value
of Greek  government bonds .  The net loss in the six months to June 30 widened to 134
million euros ($167.5 million) from a loss of 107 million euros
in the same period of 2011, according to an e-mailed statement
today from the Nicosia-based lender.  Bank of Cyprus, which sought aid from the Cypriot
government in June to meet capital requirements, said the
capital shortfall was defined by the European Banking
Association on June 30 at about 730 million euros.  The bank said it increased provisions for bad loans to 568
million euros from 63 million euros in the first half last year
mainly due to the deteriorating economic environment at home and
in  Greece , its largest overseas market. Loan provisions for
Cyprus rose to 208 million euros from 62 million euros and in
Greece they increased to 317 million euros from 95 million
euros.  The bank said it recorded an additional loss of 109 million
euros in the six months on its holding of Greek government debt
compared with the year earlier period.  The lender will submit a recapitalization and restructuring
plan for approval both by Cypriot authorities and the so-called
troika of the  European Central Bank , European Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund  that will be directly linked to
capital needs, according to the statement.  These needs will be assessed in the context of a stress-
testing exercise in cooperation with the troika and the
authorities, the bank said.  Cyprus on June 25 became the fifth euro-area country to
seek external aid. The country’s loan agreement will be partly
based on the  capital requirements  of the Cypriot financial
system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net 
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  