-- Banking Careers Swing Toward Compliance After Dodd-Frank
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-08-30T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/banking-careers-swing-toward-compliance-after-dodd-frank.html
After a three-decade career in
banking, John Hurst found himself unemployed in November, caught
up in  Bank of America Corp .’s plans to cut more than 30,000
employees by 2015.  Hurst tried for three months to find another position in
the industry, figuring his 26 years at the bank, most recently
as a vice president reporting completions for required courses,
would help. After a few interviews and no offers, “I started
thinking, what is Plan B?” he said. “I haven’t had to look for
a job in 37 years.”  He sought advice from a state employment program in his
hometown of  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , where his old bank is
based -- and wound up switching fields last month, joining  HF
Financial  as a representative with a goal of becoming a
financial planner.  Hurst’s experience isn’t uncommon in the U.S. banking
industry. By the second quarter of this year, banks had lost
more than  62,000 jobs  since September 2008, following the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  To help implement the 2010 Dodd-Frank banking overhaul law
and cope with the wave of foreclosures and refinancings,
financial institutions hired compliance and mortgage servicing
staff. Now, facing a slowing economy and new capital and
regulatory requirements, banks are undertaking another wave of
cuts -- this time in response to fundamental shifts in the
industry, said analysts including  Richard Bove  in Lutz,  Florida ,
with Rochdale Securities LLC.  Business Model  With restrictions on risk and trading and low revenue at
banks, the jobs will not return to the U.S. financial system,
according to Bove. “Is the business model for the banks
permanently broken?” he said. “Not permanently broken but
permanently changed.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  has eliminated 3,200 jobs in the
12 months through June and said Aug. 15 it would trim another 20
to 30 positions in its sales and trading division, according to
a person briefed on the matter. Morgan Stanley and Citigroup
Inc. also plan staff cuts. Head count at Morgan Stanley will
decline by about 700 in the second half, bringing total 2012
staff reductions to 4,000. Citigroup, the third-biggest  U.S.
bank , will lose more than 1,500 jobs in its securities division
by the end of the year.  “The banking industry is just a reflection of the economy
in which it operates,” which “you really can’t outperform,”
said Robert P. Kelly, former Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp.
chairman and chief executive officer, in a phone interview.  Still Optimistic  Kelly, 58, led the world’s biggest custodial bank from 2007
until he left last August over a dispute with its board. Kelly
said he still is optimistic about the banking industry in the
long term, even with a slower than expected expansion. He said
he, like other bank CEOs, anticipated the economy would be
growing faster by now.  “This is the slowest recovery I have ever experienced and
I think that would be true for anyone working today,” he said.
“Some of these changes that we’re witnessing aren’t just short-
term cyclical, they’re medium-term and they do require different
responses than perhaps 10 years ago.”  Banks were reluctant to cut their staffs even more than
they did after the 2008 crisis because they counted on the
economy improving more than it has, said  Roy Smith , a finance
professor at New York University’s Stern School of Business and
a former Goldman Sachs partner.  Greater Requirements  That didn’t happen, and banks now face greater regulatory
and capital requirements. “The structural problems are going to
require that they change their business models,” he said.
“That doesn’t mean they won’t come back, but they will come
back thinner.”  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which tracks the 24 largest U.S. and
regional banks, has fallen about 28 percent from four years ago.
Banks increased their lending 1.4 percent in the second quarter
by $102 billion, with a 0.9 percent increase in residential
 mortgage loans  totaling $16.6 billion, according to the FDIC
quarterly banking report released on Aug. 28.  The job cuts come as banks are trying to comply with new
 capital requirements , known as Basel III, that begin to take
effect next year. The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  has
agreed on rules requiring banks to increase available capital to
bolster the cushion against potential losses and better measure
and control their risk.  Bankers have downsized their trading units in response to
the Volcker Rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , which seeks to prevent deposit-taking firms from making
bets with their own capital and limits their investment in  hedge
funds  and private-equity firms.  ‘New Regulations’  “The industry will probably not look the same as it has in
the past because of all the new regulations globally with
capital requirements and leverage ratios,” said  Michael Karp ,
CEO of Options Group, an executive search and compensation firm
in New York. “The banks will probably never be able to do trade
the way they did in the past.”  Banks are not cutting jobs fast enough, said  Paul Miller ,
managing director with  FBR Capital Markets Corp.  in Arlington,
Virginia. “The industry has to be smaller,” he said. “The
system that existed five years ago does not exist anymore.”  That’s what Hurst realized when he started his search. He
enrolled in classes to brush up on interviewing skills at a
 community college , sought advice from employment program
 Charlotte Works  and learned how to use the social networking
site LinkedIn. Hurst said leaving banking gave him the
opportunity to pursue his dream of being a financial planner.  Outlook Uncertain  The industry outlook has been so uncertain, bank recruiters
have been unable to give clear direction to clients, said Steve
Partridge, president and CEO of Charlotte Works, a public-
private organization that provides training and networking for
job seekers.  “They didn’t know where the jobs would be in a few
quarters,” he said. Given the legislation in Congress, “they
didn’t know if they’d be hiring people or laying off people.”  While cuts continue in trading, opportunities are growing
in compliance, wealth management and mortgage servicing. Staff
in the latter category may be temporary to assist banks with the
boom in refinances and loan modifications.  Compliance jobs in banking have grown 3 percent since 2010,
when the Dodd-Frank law was enacted, according to the  Bureau of
Labor Statistics . As of July 2, 119 Dodd-Frank rules have been
finalized, while 142 have not yet been proposed, according to a
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP  report .  Career Choices  Cliff Rossi, who left as managing director and chief risk
officer for Citigroup’s Consumer Lending Group and is now
executive-in-residence at the Robert H. Smith School of Business
at the  University of Maryland , said he sees the changes in
banking affecting the courses and career choices of his
students.  When he began teaching in 2009, they were clamoring to get
into his course on financial engineering. Now they are filling
classes in risk management and applying for regulatory jobs at
banks and government agencies.  Sam Brownell, 29, is one such former student of Rossi’s. He
was an equity researcher for  Wunderlich Securities , a brokerage
firm in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , for eight months before he lost his
job in May. He now is looking for a position in regulatory
compliance, where he sees “more stable” work, he said.  “On the investment banking side, you see a lot of people
that are just trying to keep their head above water,” Brownell
said. “It’s not a great environment for innovation and learning
and mentoring, especially someone who is young like me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  