-- Barclays Marathon Man CEO Everything That Bob Diamond Was Not
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-08-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/barclays-marathon-man-ceo-everything-that-bob-diamond-was-not.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s new Chief Executive
Officer  Antony Jenkins  is the opposite of his ex-boss, a
marathon-running retail banker known as quiet and understated in
comparison to  Robert Diamond ’s brash investment-banking style.  Jenkins, 51, takes over at Barclays after the bank paid a
record fine for interest-rate manipulation, which led to the
resignation of Diamond, Chairman Marcus Agius and former Chief
Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier. In a break with the past,
he is the only CEO of a global, universal bank who doesn’t have
a background in investment banking. He got the job after
Barclays struggled to find other suitable candidates, said  Paul Myners , the U.K. financial-services minister from 2008 to 2010.  “In Jenkins you’ve got the archetypal English CEO who is
seen as rather safe, compared with the typically aggressive U.S.
investment banker that was  Bob Diamond ,” said Alan Beaney, who
helps manage 200 million pounds ($315 million), including
Barclays shares, at RC Brown Investment Management Plc in
Bristol,  England . “His appointment signals that the bank is not
going to be as brazen as it has been in the past.”  Diamond, 61, who became a symbol for excess in the banking
industry after taking home about 120 million pounds in
compensation since joining the board in 2005, built Barclays’s
investment bank and counts Rolling Stones singer  Mick Jagger  and
golfer  Phil Mickelson  among his friends. By contrast Jenkins is
known as a low-key collegial consumer banker, a long-distance
runner who outlasted rivals to win the top job. His mantra is
“relentless simplification.”  ‘Transformational Leader’  Jenkins must rebuild trust with regulators while convincing
 investors  that he can maintain profitability in the glare of
more intrusive regulation and political oversight.  “I’m a transformational leader, and I have every
confidence that my business acumen, general experience in
banking and the skills and talents of the team we have in the
investment bank will enable me to continue to take Barclays” in
the right direction, Jenkins said in an interview yesterday.
“There are many fine things about Barclays.”  Jenkins, who studied philosophy, politics and economics at
Oxford University, has been head of retail banking at Barclays
since November 2009 after being promoted from CEO of
Barclaycard, the bank’s credit-card division, which he joined in
2006. Born in Stoke-on-Trent, a city in the north of England,
Jenkins joined Barclays in 1983 straight out of university
before moving to  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in 1989, where he was an
executive vice president in the credit-card division.  Boosted Profits  He was recruited back to Barclays by then CEO  John Varley 
in 2006 and became the top internal candidate after avoiding a
series of scandals and strategic mistakes that undermined his
colleagues for the top job. He was one of only a few senior U.K.
bankers in Diamond’s team dominated by North Americans.  While head of Barclaycard, Jenkins boosted pretax profits
to 727 million pounds in 2009 from 522 million pounds in 2006,
according to filings. Pretax profit at the U.K.  consumer-banking
unit  rose to 1 billion pounds from 710 million pounds in 2009.
The two divisions are the only ones that met the bank’s 13
percent return-on-equity target in 2011.  “You don’t have to raise your voice or thump the table to
get your point across,” Jenkins said in an interview with the
Telegraph in 2009. “When you have a very measured style, you
don’t need to shout. You just need to make your point a little
more directly and people notice.”  Consumer Banking  After taking charge of Barclaycard in 2006, Jenkins
replaced several senior employees at the credit-card division
and sold Monument, the company’s subprime-lending unit, helping
to improve the quality of loans. He took advantage of the
impending credit crisis of 2008 by purchasing Goldfish, a
credit-card firm with 1.7 million customers and $4 billion in
loans outstanding.  Barclays consumer-banking unit accounted for 49 percent of
adjusted profit before tax for the group last year, up from 35
percent in the previous year. The  investment-banking  unit
contributed 46 percent of group profits in 2011 compared with 62
percent in 2010.  “We view Jenkins as the natural internal choice for the
position,” Jason Napier and David Lock, Deutsche Bank AG
analysts, said in a note to clients yesterday. “He is well
known to the market, businesses under his care have performed
well, he possesses experience within and without the group, and
his reputation and retail heritage provide a base for rebuilding
the bank’s reputation.”  Marathon Man  Jenkins comes from working-class roots. Neither of his
parents went to university and his father worked two jobs as a
salesman for a U.S. abrasives firm and in a gas station. He
attended a state school in Cheshire before going to Oxford.  He ran the 26.2-mile  New York  marathon in 2005 in 4 hours
and 49 minutes, improving on his 2003 time of 5 hours and 3
minutes. He raised money for the  Sense charity , which supports
deaf and blind people, for  London ’s 2010 marathon.  As CEO, he will earn as much as 8.6 million pounds a year
in salary, bonuses and pension payments, less than Diamond’s
12.5 million pounds per year in pay and other benefits.  In July, bookmaker Paddy Power had him as the favorite,
followed by Finance Director Chris Lucas, former consumer
banking head Frits Seegers and  Rich Ricci , who runs the
investment bank.  Since then Lucas has come under investigation by the
Financial Services Authority relating to the fees Barclays paid
in 2008 to Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund, while Ricci was
tarnished by his close association to Diamond.  “There actually were not many candidates for the role,”
Myners said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. There
were “probably less than four credible candidates, two of whom
I know were approached and turned it down almost without any
serious consideration,” he said, declining to identify them.  Investment Banking  Just because Jenkins has a different background than
Diamond, it is unlikely Barclays will ditch the universal
banking model, Sandy Chen, an analyst at  Cenkos Securities Plc (CNKS) 
in London, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  Jenkins has said in the past that the universal banking
model, which incorporates investment and consumer banking within
one firm, is the safest way to run a bank.  “The universal banking model as operated by Barclays is an
inherently more solid proposition from a risk point of view,”
Jenkins  said at a hearing  of the U.K. government’s Future of
Banking Commission in March 2010. “A well-run universal banking
model is a sound banking model.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  