-- Barclays New CEO May Get 31% Less Than ‘Unacceptable’ Diamond
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-08-30T15:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/barclays-new-ceo-may-pocket-31-less-than-unacceptable-diamond.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  may pay new Chief
Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  31 percent less than  Robert
Diamond , the predecessor whose compensation drove a U.K. cabinet
minister to dub him the “unacceptable face of banking.”  Jenkins, a 51-year-old Briton and veteran of Barclays’s
consumer division, will earn as much as 8.6 million pounds
($13.6 million) a year in salary, bonuses and pension payments,
according to a statement from Britain’s second-largest lender
today. Diamond, the U.S.-born investment banker who was forced
to resign last month, was awarded as much as 12.5 million pounds
per year in pay and other benefits.  “Bob was overpaid, and that’s been the whole issue,” said
Gary Greenwood, a Liverpool, England-based analyst at Shore
Capital Group Ltd. “This guy could still potentially get a lot
of money. The financial-services industry does seem to carry
very high bonuses compared with other industries.”  Jenkins will receive a salary of 1.1 million pounds, as
much as 2.75 million pounds in bonus, and about 363,000 pounds
as an alternative to a pension payment, Barclays said today.
From next year, he is eligible for as much as 4.4 million pounds
per year in long-term bonuses.  Diamond earned at least 120 million pounds in pay and
bonuses after he became a Barclays board member in 2005, or
about 17 million pounds per year, according to Manifest
Information Services Ltd.  ‘Unacceptable’  Diamond became CEO in 2011 after running the investment
bank, formerly branded as  Barclays Capital . Former Business
Secretary  Peter Mandelson  had dubbed him the “unacceptable
face” of the banking industry in 2010.  In 2011, Diamond was paid 1.35 million pounds in salary, as
much as 2.7 million pounds in bonus and as much as 2.25 million
pounds in long-term incentives, a 5.75 million-pound payment to
cover his personal tax bill and 474,000 pounds in benefits.  “Typically, retail bankers don’t pay themselves as much,”
said Vivek Raja, an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in  London .
“That may indicate Barclays is moving to more of a retail
banking model rather than investment-banking dominated.”  In July, Barclays announced the resignation of Alison Carnwath, who headed the bank’s compensation committee and
approved Diamond’s pay package. About 21 percent of Barclays
shareholders opposed her re-election as a non-executive director
in April amid criticism from investors the lender was enriching
employees while failing to hit its own profitability targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell    k.campbell@bloomberg.net  