-- Birinyi Sees S&P 500 at 1,500 While Warning on Trading Risks
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-08-30T15:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/birinyi-sees-s-p-500-at-1-500-while-warning-on-trading-risks-1-.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index may
rally to 1,500 this year even as investors contend with rising
risks created by modern market structure, said Laszlo Birinyi,
president of Birinyi Associates Inc.  Stocks in the benchmark  gauge  for American equities may
advance about 6 percent from yesterday’s close as the bull
market that began in March 2009 persists, the former Salomon
Brothers Inc. equity trader said in a note to clients. In a
separate report, he said markets are increasingly disrupted by
“electronic trading and all of its ramifications.”  Birinyi, founder of the Westport, Connecticut-based
research and money-management firm, reiterated the bullish call
on shares that he has made since the  S&P 500  began its  108
percent rally  3 1/2 years ago. His analysis is based in part on
a comparison to past bull markets that started with gains such
as the 29 percent advance during March and April 2009.  “If this  market  continues to track history -- and to date
nothing has been a better guide -- we could see 1,500 before
year end,” wrote Birinyi, who advised clients to buy equities
before they bottomed in March 2009. “We like the market in part
because it is a bull market. The day-to-day commentary is all
good and fine for information but the reality is that in a bull
market stocks go up.”  Monthly Advance  The S&P 500  fell  0.7 percent to 1,400.58 at 11:17 a.m. in
New York. It rose 2.3 percent in August through yesterday, on
track for its third straight monthly increase. The benchmark
gauge for U.S. equities has climbed 12 percent this year as
global central banks have taken action to boost economic growth.  Birinyi is updating his forecast from the end of July when
he said the S&P 500 would probably reach 1,380 within the next
few months and rally from there. He cited the resilience of
stocks despite disappointing economic data from China and
 Europe , strong bearish investor sentiment as a contrarian
indicator, and July’s better-than-estimated U.S. jobs report.  His other note highlighted the growth of high-frequency
trading and said the emphasis on speed may jeopardize the
stability of U.S. markets, citing mishaps such as  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG) ’s unintended buying and selling earlier this month.  “While positive on the market, we are pessimistic
regarding the industry,” Birinyi wrote. “The potential for
adverse events not only exists but is increasing.”  Knight lost $440 million in less than an hour on Aug. 1,
compelling it to seek a rescue from a group of investors led by
Jefferies Group Inc.  Facebook, Bats  The initial public offering of  Facebook Inc. (FB)  on the Nasdaq
Stock Market in May was marred by delays and malfunctions, while
Bats Global Markets Inc. withdrew its own IPO in March after it
failed to get shares to trade properly on its own exchange.  The growth of electronic trading over the last 15 years is
the result of advances in technology, the decreasing cost of
computers and changes in regulation by government agencies such
as the Securities and Exchange Commission aimed at providing
savings to retail investors.  “We submit that the SEC’s ambitious intent of creating a
level trading field and ’democraticizing’ investing has been
overwhelmed by the world of dark pools, high-frequency trading,
trading mischief and self-serving instruments,” Birinyi wrote.  The benefits of computerized venues are limited for retail
investors, Birinyi said, while questioning merits cited by
proponents of the new technology such as faster execution at a
lower cost and with more liquidity.  “Trading platforms have expanded, new instruments have
proliferated and the individual investor is infrequently seen,”
he wrote. “As for the individual, the saturation of exchange-
traded products has certainly not increased his confidence or
opportunities.”  While almost all stock transactions in the U.S. used to be
handled by three exchanges, regulations to increase competition
and reduce costs have fragmented markets across about 50
different venues, raising concerns about integrity when the
computers that increasingly dominate trading malfunction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  