-- Bovespa Falls as Brazil Signals Yearlong Rate-Cut Cycle Near End
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-08-30T20:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/bovespa-falls-as-brazil-signals-yearlong-rate-cut-cycle-near-end.html
The Bovespa stock index dropped
after Brazil’s central bank indicated it may be done cutting
 interest rates  after nine reductions over the past year.  Iron-ore  producer  Vale SA (VALE3)  fell for a sixth day as prices
for the steelmaking material tumbled further.  Natura Cosmeticos
SA (NATU3) , Brazil’s biggest cosmetics maker, plunged after a report
saying it plans to sell shares in a secondary offering.  Brazil’s benchmark equity measure slid 0.2 percent to
57,256.43 at the close of trading in Sao Paulo. The real climbed
0.2 percent to 2.0468 per dollar. Swap rates on most contracts
rose after policy makers, in a statement accompanying their
decision to cut the target lending rate to 7.5 percent, said
that if there is room for an additional adjustment it “should
be carried out with maximum parsimony.”  “It looks like the central bank is closer to putting an
end to the rate cuts than investors were expecting, which is
negative for the market, at least in the short term,” Marc Sauerman, who helps oversee 650 million reais ($318 million) at
J Malucelli Investimentos in Curitiba, Brazil, said in a phone
interview. “It could be a positive looking forward if we find
out that the central bank took this stance because the recovery
is in fact on track.”  Vale, the  heaviest-weighted  stock on the  Bovespa (IBOV)  index
after Petroleo Brasileiro SA, dropped 0.4 percent to 32.32
reais. Iron ore for immediate delivery slid 1.8 percent to
$88.70 a metric ton, according to  data  compiled by The Steel
Index Ltd. Prices for the raw material have fallen 23 percent in
last month.  Demand for iron ore has declined as  China’s economy , the
world’s second-largest, expanded 7.6 percent in the second
quarter, the slowest annual pace in three years.  China Slowdown  “Concern about the slowdown in  China  is weighing on the
Brazilian market,” Otavio Vieira, who helps manage 270 million
reais as a partner at the hedge fund Fides Asset Management,
said in a phone interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “That’s
particularly bad for companies that depend heavily on
commodities exports, such as Vale.”  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes,  Brazil ’s
second-biggest homebuilder by revenue, rose 1.8 percent to 3.90
reais after saying it sold all bonds in a 796 million reais
offer.  The MSCI Brazil/Utilities Index dropped the most among 10
industry groups as power companies tumbled after the government
set rules to seize licenses and take control of companies that
don’t meet contract requirements.  Power to Intervene  The energy regulator, Aneel, will have more power to
intervene in utilities and take over management to ensure rules
are met as well as to auction seized licenses to other
companies, according to a rule published in the government’s
official gazette today.  Cia. de Transmissao de Energia Eletrica Paulista , a Sao
Paulo-based electricity distributor, declined 7.3 percent to
50.05 reais.  Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo , the state-controlled
power company known as Cesp, fell 6.1 percent to 33.70 reais.  Natura tumbled 4.5 percent to 51.10 reais. Controlling
shareholders plan to sell a stake in a secondary offering,
DebtWire reported, citing two people it didn’t identify. The
company didn’t immediately comment on the report when contacted
by  Bloomberg News .  The Bovespa has climbed 9.1 percent from this year’s low on
June 5 as eased concern about  Europe ’s crisis and borrowing
costs at a record low in Brazil boosted demand for equities. The
index trades at 11.6 times analysts’ earnings estimates for the
next four quarters, which compares with the ratio of 10.7 times
for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 5.89 billion reais in stocks in Sao
Paulo, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average of 7.18 billion reais this year through Aug. 29,
according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  