-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise on Signal Cuts Ending; Real Strengthens
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-08-30T21:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/brazil-swap-rates-rise-on-signal-rate-cuts-near-end-real-drops.html
Brazil ’s swap rates climbed the most
in two weeks as the central bank signaled a yearlong easing of
borrowing costs may have come to an end, prompting traders to
pare bets on a reduction in October.  Policy makers led by President Alexandre Tombini reduced
the  target lending rate  yesterday by a half-percentage point to
7.50 percent, as forecast by all 60 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. If there is room for an additional adjustment, it
“should be carried out with maximum parsimony,” the central
bank said in a statement.  “The market was divided between another 25 or 50 basis
point cut in October, and now the debate is going to be between
zero and 25 basis points,” Luis Otavio de Souza Leal, the chief
economist at Banco ABC Brasil SA, said by phone from Sao Paulo.
“The plan of the central bank seems to be to stabilize the
rate.”  Swap rates on contracts due in January 2014 climbed eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 7.83 percent, the
biggest increase since Aug. 16 on a closing basis. They have
fallen two basis points in August. The real appreciated 0.1
percent to 2.0484 per dollar and has risen 0.4 percent this
month.  Brazil’s government will keep taking action to weaken the
real to help local manufacturers in 2013, Finance Minister  Guido
Mantega  said today in Brasilia.  The real is “consolidating” at a level weaker than 2
reais per dollar thanks to the government’s policy to stem its
advance as other countries try to gain an advantage by devaluing
in a currency war, Mantega said.  Weaker Real  The currency has declined 8.9 percent against the greenback
in 2012, the biggest drop among the dollar’s 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  Brazil will seek growth of 4.5 percent in 2013, Mantega
said. The government’s 2013 budget has room to grant new tax
cuts worth 15.2 billion reais ($7.4 billion), he said today.  The Treasury sold 5 million of 5.3 million of zero-coupon
bonds, known as LTNs, in an auction today, according to a
statement on its website. The government sold 3.99 billion reais
of securities maturing in 2014 and 2016. It rejected all bids
for bonds maturing in 2013.  The central bank has lowered borrowing costs nine times
since last August to revive economic growth that was half the
annualized pace of the U.S. in the first quarter and is trailing
Russia, India and  China  -- its peers in the BRIC group of major
 emerging markets .  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has cut taxes to
spur the sale of cars and home appliances, incentives that were
extended yesterday by as much as four months.  Goldman Sachs View  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a research note that the
central bank statement, coming as the inflation outlook worsens
and tax breaks spur “strong” demand for durable goods,
indicates that policy makers will probably leave the target
lending rate unchanged going forward.  Nomura Holdings Inc. raised its target lending rate
forecast for the end of 2013 to 9.50 percent today, from a
previous 7.25 percent, citing in a research note a pickup in
inflation caused by the government.  The central bank “is being too optimistic about how much
this will result in growth, and how much in inflation,” wrote
 Tony Volpon , the head of emerging-markets research for the
Americas at Nomura. Higher inflation “will be the unfortunate
end result of the present policy mix, especially taking into
account the supply shocks hitting the economy and the present
policy of virtually pegging the BRL to ‘help out industry.’”  Inflation Pickup  Brazil’s prices as measured by the IGP-M index rose 1.43
percent in August, the biggest increase since November 2010, the
Rio de Janeiro-based Getulio Vargas Foundation said on its
website today. The gauge gives producer prices a 60 percent
weighting; consumer prices, 30 percent; and constructions costs,
10 percent.  The central bank has blamed a supply shock stemming from
crop losses for the price increases. Tombini reiterated Aug. 17
that annual inflation will slow toward the bank’s 4.5 percent
target by the end of the year even as growth picks up.  While the tone of the central bank’s statement was “more
hawkish than expected,” the central bank still left the door
open for another 25 basis point cut in October, Enestor dos
Santos, a senior economist at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA (BBVA) , wrote in a note to clients.  Brazil’s consumer-loan default rate rose in July to match a
30-month high in May, renewing concern that the country’s
credit-driven growth could falter.  The consumer default rate increased to 7.9 percent from 7.8
percent in June, the central bank said in a report distributed
today in Brasilia. The company loan default rate was unchanged
at 4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  