-- Brazilian Sugar at Ports Drops 10% in a Week on Dryness
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-30T11:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/brazilian-sugar-at-ports-drops-10-in-a-week-on-dryness.html
The amount of sugar waiting to be
loaded at the main ports in  Brazil , the largest producer,
dropped 10 percent in the past week as dry weather helped
loading, according to agency Williams Servicos Maritimos Ltda.  About 1.91 million metric tons of sugar were ready for
loading yesterday at the ports of Paranagua, Vitoria and Santos,
the country’s biggest, data from the Recife, Brazil-based
shipping agency e-mailed yesterday showed. That compares with
about 2.14 million tons a week earlier.  Dry weather in the south and center south regions for three
consecutive weeks kept ports “working on a normal basis without
big queues of vessels causing delays,” Luiz Carlos dos Santos
Jr., head of sugar brokerage operations at SA Commodities in
Santos, said in a report e-mailed yesterday.  Brazil’s sugar-cane harvest will be helped by dry weather
this week in producing areas, forecaster Somar Meteorologia said
in a report e-mailed Aug. 27. Dryness helped boost processing by
14 percent to 44.2 million tons in the first half of August,
industry group Unica said.  Some 99,712 tons of sugar were scheduled to be shipped to
 Malaysia  and 94,661 tons to  China , the Williams Brasil data
showed. Chinese buyers, who sold back some cargoes they had
bought, were looking to purchase again as prices fell, according
to  Michael McDougall , head of the Brazil desk at Newedge Group
in  New York .  “Most of the market was not expecting China to come back
in after their massive buying two months ago and then subsequent
partial washout,” McDougall said in a report yesterday.  China, the world’s second-biggest sugar consumer after
 India , diverted about 370,000 tons of planned imports to other
destinations, researcher Green Pool Commodity Specialists Pty
Ltd. estimated on Aug. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 