-- Buffett Pledges $3 Billion More to Children’s Foundations
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-30T18:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/buffett-pledges-3-billion-more-to-children-s-foundations-1-.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  has
pledged an additional $3 billion of shares in his  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  to his three children’s foundations.  Buffett committed the majority of his wealth in 2006 to the
 Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation . At that time, he also made
commitments to charities established by his three children --the
Howard G. Buffett Foundation, the Sherwood Foundation and the
NoVo Foundation -- and by his late wife.  “I knew you would apply your considerable brains and
energies in order to make the most of the funds from my gift,”
Buffett, who turned 82 today, said to his children in a letter
posted on the website of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire.
“However, you have exceeded my high expectations.”  Buffett has promoted philanthropy that addresses society’s
toughest challenges as a way for wealthy individuals to show
gratitude for their opportunities and shield themselves from the
burdens of having too much money. He created the Giving Pledge
with Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates  in 2010 to enlist
billionaires to donate at least half their wealth to charity.  “Intelligent charity, big-time charity should tackle
things where it’ll fail,” Buffett said last year at a press
conference in Bangalore,  India . “If you succeed in everything
you’re doing in charity, you’re attempting things that are too
easy.”  Buffett’s latest pledge doubles the number of Class B
shares committed to his children’s foundations to 24.4 million
each. The shares  slipped  0.4 percent to $84.19 at 2:41 p.m. in
New York.  Gates Foundation  Each foundation will get about 1.2 million shares in July
with that amount decreasing 5 percent a year for future
installments, Buffett said in the letter.  “I would expect the value of the annual distribution to
average more than $100 million, though it will vary
substantially from year to year,” Buffett wrote. “I’m
confident you will use the money wisely, each in your own way.”  Buffett pledged 10 million Class B Berkshire shares to the
Gates Foundation in 2006, worth about $30.7 billion at the time.
In a  letter  to Gates and his wife Melinda, who created the
organization, Buffett said he would start with a gift of 500,000
Berkshire shares that year. Each subsequent year, he said he’d
give away 5 percent from what remains of the 10 million-share
pledge. The stock subsequently had a  50-to-1 (BRK/B)  split.  The bequest has helped fund the foundation’s work combating
poverty and disease globally, as well as U.S. education
initiatives.  The charity run by  Howard Buffett , a farmer and Berkshire
board member, has aided subsistence growers in Central America
and  Africa . Buffett’s daughter, Susan, focuses her Sherwood
Foundation on causes in Omaha and early childhood education in
the U.S. She is a board member of Girls Inc., which promotes
economic literacy and healthy lifestyles.  Peter Buffett, an Emmy Award-winning musician, has
underwritten efforts to reduce violence against women and girls
through the NoVo Foundation.  Buffett, who built Berkshire over four decades from a
failing textile maker into a firm valued at more than $200
billion,  holds  350,000 of the company’s outstanding Class A
shares. The stake comprises the majority of his estimated $45
billion fortune. Each Class A share can be  converted  into 1,500
B shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  