-- Bumi Says Recapital Misses $231 Million Repayment Date
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-08-30T16:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/bumi-says-recapital-misses-231-million-repayment-date-correct-.html
(Corrects to remove reference to loan in headline, first
paragraph in story first published on Aug. 28.)  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , the second-worst  performer 
in  London ’s  FTSE 350 Mining Index (F3MNG)  this year, said PT Recapital
Asset Management missed a deadline to repay a $231 million
investment.  The funds were due to  Asia ’s biggest power-station coal
exporter PT Bumi Resources, which is 29 percent owned by London-
listed Bumi. PT Bumi and Recapital are in talks for a new
repayment schedule, Bumi said today in a statement. The stock
 dropped  as much as 12 percent, the largest intraday decline
since June 12.  Bumi board member Rosan Roeslani is the president director
of Recapital and the funds were at the center of a dispute
between founder  Nathaniel Rothschild  and Indra Bakrie, Bumi’s
co-chairman. Rothschild in November called for a “radical
cleaning up,” of Bakrie’s PT Bumi and a timetable for the
“repatriation of funds deposited with connected parties.”  A schedule for the early repayment to PT Bumi from
Recapital and another shareholder, PT Bukit Mutiara, was
announced Nov. 17 and reaffirmed at a December meeting between
Rothschild and Bakrie.  Bumi declined 4.9 percent to 337.6 pence at 10:05 a.m. in
London. It has slumped 61 percent  this year  and has a market
value of 821 million pounds ($1.3 billion).  Aquarius Platinum
Ltd. (AQP)  has dropped 75 percent this year, more than any of the
other 23 companies in the benchmark mining index.  Coal Prices  Bumi Resources earlier sank to the lowest level in more
than three years in Jakarta trading. It posted a first-half net
loss of $322 million on Aug. 26, compared with a restated profit
of $232 million a year earlier.  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) ,  Southeast Asia ’s top-ranked
investment bank, cut Bumi Resources to underperform, equivalent
to sell, from neutral.  Coal prices at  Australia ’s Newcastle port, an Asian
benchmark, have fallen 21 percent this year as the Chinese
economy slowed and after U.S. and South African producers
shifted coal sales to Asia amid the debt crisis in  Europe .  Bumi Plc Chief Executive Officer Nalin Rathod said Aug. 9
that a slump in prices for power-station coal may have a
“material impact” on future profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  