-- California’s Simulated Carbon Auction Seen as ‘Slam Dunk’
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-08-30T23:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/california-s-simulated-carbon-auction-seen-as-slam-dunk-.html
California , the world’s ninth-
largest economy, said a trial auction of carbon allowances
appears to have gone well today.  Participants found the online system easy to use, the state
Air Resources Board, which performed the simulation in
preparation for the first real auction of permits on Nov. 14,
said in a statement. More than 430 companies regulated under the
state’s cap-and-trade program were invited to log into the
auction platform and submit bids as part of the trial.  Those who participated in the practice auction described it
as a “slam dunk,” Jeff King, managing director of
environmental markets at Scotiabank in Toronto, said by
telephone from  Sacramento . “It was easy.”  The successful trial may signal that California is on track
to creating the world’s second-largest carbon market, behind the
European Union’s emissions-trading system. Carbon futures linked
to the state’s program have dropped  from this year’s high on
speculation that the first auction, twice delayed, would be put
off again.  Futures for December 2013 slipped 35 cents to $16.30 a
metric ton, down 20 percent from this year’s peak of $20.25 on
July 24, data compiled by CME Group Inc.’s Green Exchange show.
Forward contracts had sold for $16.25 and $16.30 a metric ton as
of 5:50 p.m.  New York  time, down from a 2012 peak of $20.10,
according to ICE.  “We will be combing the record for every minor glitch we
can possibly find to fix, but I am delighted that everything so
far shows that the practice auction went well,”  Mary Nichols ,
the air board’s chairman, said in a statement.  Emissions Allowances  The state plans to cap emissions from power generators, oil
refineries and other industrial plants beginning next year and
cut that limit gradually to reduce emissions to 1990 levels by
2020. The air board will issue allowances, each permitting the
release of one metric ton of carbon, through a combination of
free allocations and auctions.  Companies must turn in enough allowances to cover their
emissions, and those under the limit can sell the permits to
others above it. The program, divided into three compliance
periods that run through 2020, will eventually cover 85 percent
of the  greenhouse gases  released in the state.  While allowances won’t be sold until November,  CME Group
Inc. (CME) ’s Green Exchange began offering contracts for the future
delivery of permits last August, at the same time that
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  began clearing forwards.  Sample Results  The air board doesn’t plan to release a settlement price or
the number of allowances sold in the practice auction, according
to a pool report. The agency will instead e-mail those who
participated in the practice auction sample results on Sept. 4.  The simulation was limited primarily to regulated
companies, some state regulators and legislators, and members of
the Western Climate Initiative,  Stanley Young , a spokesman for
the agency, said during an interview in San Francisco Aug. 13.
The board selected two reporters, from the Sacramento Bee and
Bloomberg BNA, to participate in the trial and report to a
larger pool.  Trial participants logged into an electronic bidding system
that required them enter a bid price with a minimum bid of $10
an allowance; the number of “lots” desired, each representing
1,000 allowances; and a “vintage” year, corresponding to the
compliance phase that the allowances would be used for,
according to a pool report.  Electronic System  “It’s about as exciting as paying your bills online,”
Dave Clegern, a spokesman for the air board in Sacramento, said
by telephone Aug. 22. “There will be no settlement price
posted. There will be no final number of participants.”  The first auction of allowances was delayed to Aug. 15 from
Feb. 14 while the board fended off a legal challenge to the cap-
and-trade system. The auction was delayed a second time in March
when Nichols said another three months were needed to prepare.  Carbon futures were trading with “a fair amount of
discounting based on some expectations that we’re not actually
going to start on time,”  Gary Stern , the market strategy
director for the state’s second-largest power utility,  Edison
International (EIX) ’s Southern California Edison in Rosemead, said by
phone Aug. 23. Prices should firm up if the trial runs smoothly,
he said.  Free Permits  The air board is still facing pressure from some state
politicians to issue more free permits instead of selling them
at auction. A group of 17 legislators, led by Assemblyman Henry T. Perea, a Democrat, asked Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. in a
letter Aug. 27 to direct the air board to issue more free
permits instead of auctioning them.  The state’s nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s Office said
in an Aug. 17 report that California could reduce emissions by
issuing all allowances for free, while warning that free
allocations may generate “windfall profits” for those running
already-efficient plants and eliminate a source of state
revenue.  The air board plans to put about 21.7 million metric tons
of 2013 permits and 40 million of 2015 permits up for sale in
the November auction, Clegern said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  