-- Canada June Employment, Earnings and Hours Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-08-30T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/canada-june-employment-earnings-and-hours-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s employment, earnings, and hours report for June
released by  Statistics Canada .  Average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll employees were
$898.00 in June, up 0.6% from the previous month. On a year-
over-year basis, earnings increased 3.0%.  The 3.0% increase during the 12 months to June reflects a
number of factors, including wage growth, changes in the
composition of employment, as well as average hours worked per
week. In June, non-farm payroll employees worked an average of
33.2 hours per week, up from 32.9 hours from both the month
before and 12 months earlier.  Average weekly earnings by sector  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings outpaced
the national average of 3.0% in four of the largest industrial
sectors: manufacturing; educational services; construction; as
well as accommodation and food services. In contrast, earnings
declined in administrative and support services.  In manufacturing, weekly earnings increased 5.9% to
$1,011.16 in the 12 months to June, with the most notable growth
among manufacturers of transport equipment; plastics and rubber
products; machinery; food; and wood products.  Average weekly earnings in educational services increased
4.9% to $1,004.80 over the same period. The highest growth was
in elementary and secondary schools.  In construction, weekly earnings rose 4.9% to $1,145.20.
Growth was widespread across most industries in this sector.  Weekly earnings in accommodation and food services were up
4.0% to $372.14 in the 12 months to June. Increases were most
notable in special food services and limited-service eating
places.  Weekly earnings of payroll employees in administrative and
support services fell 1.6% to $713.79. Earnings declined in
investigation and security services and in office administrative
services.  Average weekly earnings up in every province  Average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll employees
increased in every province in the 12 months to June. Growth was
highest in Newfoundland and Labrador, Saskatchewan and Prince
 Edward Island .  In Newfoundland and Labrador, average weekly earnings
increased 7.0% to $924.42, the second highest wage level among
the provinces after  Alberta .  In Saskatchewan, average weekly earnings were $914.27 in
June, up 6.6% from 12 months earlier. Earnings in the province
have been higher than the national average since August 2011.  In Prince Edward Island, average weekly earnings increased
5.9% to $760.74.  The lowest year-over-year increase occurred in  Quebec ,
where average weekly earnings rose 0.4% to $812.47.  Non-farm payroll employment by sector  Total non-farm payroll employment rose by 35,100 between
May and June, the fourth consecutive monthly increase. Most
sectors showed job gains in June.  On a year-over-year basis, non-farm payroll employment
increased 2.0% (+296,500), with most of these gains since
February 2012 (+219,000).  Among all sectors, mining, quarrying and oil and gas
extraction (+8.5%) posted the highest 12-month employment growth
rate. It was followed by the construction sector (+5.2%) and
accommodation and food services (+3.5%).  Note to readers  The Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH) is a
business census of non-farm payroll employees. Its key objective
is to provide a monthly portrait of the level of earnings, the
number of jobs and hours worked by detailed industry at the
national, provincial and territorial level.  Statistics Canada also produces employment estimates from
its monthly Labour Force Survey (LFS). The LFS is a household
survey, the main objective of which is to divide the working-age
population into three mutually exclusive groups: the employed
(including the self-employed), unemployed and not in the labour
force. This survey is the official source for the  unemployment
rate  and collects data on the socio-demographic characteristics
of all those in the labour market.  As a result of conceptual and methodological differences,
estimates of changes from SEPH and LFS do differ from time to
time. However, the trends in the data are quite similar.  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/11-010-x/2010003/part -
partie3-eng.htm) .  Non-farm payroll employment data are for all hourly and
salaried employees, as well as the “other employees” category,
which includes piece-rate and commission-only employees.  Average weekly hours data are for hourly and salaried
employees only and exclude businesses that could not be
classified to a North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS) code.  All earnings data include overtime pay and exclude
businesses that could not be classified to a NAICS code.
Earnings data are based on gross taxable payroll before source
deductions.  Average weekly earnings are derived by dividing total
weekly earnings by the number of employees.  With each release, data for the current reference month are
subject to revision. Data have been revised for the previous
month. Users are encouraged to request and use the most up-to-
date data for each month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  