-- Canada Second Quarter Current Account Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-08-30T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/canada-second-quarter-current-account-report-text-.html
Following is the text of Canada’s
current account report for the second quarter released by
 Statistics Canada .  Canada’s current account deficit (on a seasonally adjusted
basis) expanded $5.9 billion to $16.0 billion in the second
quarter, mainly on lower exports and higher imports of goods.  In the capital and financial account (unadjusted for
seasonal variation), funds continued to flow into the Canadian
economy, led in the second quarter by purchases of government
debt securities.  Current account  Balance on trade in goods returns to a deficit  The overall goods balance posted a $3.6 billion deficit in
the second quarter, following three quarter of surpluses. A
combination of lower exports, especially energy products, and
higher imports led to a $5.9 billion deterioration in net trade
on goods in the quarter. This largely reflected trade with the
 United States , as the goods surplus narrowed by $5.5 billion to
$9.9 billion, its lowest level since the fourth quarter of 2010.  Total exports of goods were down $3.6 billion as
international sales of energy products fell by $4.5 billion.
This reflected much lower exports of crude petroleum to the
United States in the second quarter on lower prices and volumes,
after record sales in the first quarter. Industrial goods
declined $0.5 billion, mostly on lower volumes of metal ores,
despite stronger exports of fertilizer and fertilizer materials.
Machinery and equipment exports advanced $0.8 billion, led by
increased aircraft sales. Automotive products exports were up
$0.5 billion, split between cars and automotive parts.  Imports of goods expanded $2.3 billion in the second
quarter. Automotive products were up $1.1 billion with over one
half from higher imports of automotive parts. Machinery and
equipment was up $0.9 billion while  consumer goods  advanced $0.6
billion, the increases being spread across almost all components
of these two categories. Energy products declined $0.8 billion,
mostly on lower prices.  Deficit on trade in services edges down  The overall deficit on trade in services shrank $0.2
billion in the second quarter to $6.2 billion. Exports of
commercial services rose by $0.5 billion while imports were
unchanged. This was partly offset by higher deficits for travel
and transportation services as spending by Canadians on fares
and travel expenses advanced.  Investment income deficit expands slightly  The deficit on investment income increased $0.2 billion to
$5.5 billion in the second quarter. Interest received by
Canadian banks on their foreign investments was down while
payments on Canadian bonds and money market instruments held by
non-residents advanced. Profits earned by Canadians on their
direct investment abroad declined. However, lower profits earned
on foreign direct investment in  Canada  moderated the increase in
the deficit.  Capital and financial account  Foreign acquisitions of Canadian debt securities strengthen  Non-resident investors increased their holdings of Canadian
securities by $28.4 billion in the second quarter, up from $6.1
billion in the first quarter. Foreign acquisitions focused on
government debt securities with most of the activity recorded in
May, against a backdrop of significant declines in major global
stock markets.  Foreign investors acquired $17.9 billion of Canadian bonds
in the second quarter, on par with the quarterly average
investment observed since the first quarter of 2009. These
inflows were led by secondary market purchases of federal bonds
and, to a lesser extent, acquisitions of new provincial bonds.
Large retirements of maturing bonds in June moderated the
increase in foreign holdings of Canadian bonds in the second
quarter.  Activity in the Canadian money market rebounded as non-
residents acquired $10.2 billion of Canadian paper, following a
divestment of $7.8 billion in the first quarter. Investment
targeted paper from the federal and provincial sectors, largely
reflecting net new issues of Canadian Treasury bills in the
quarter. The differential between long- and short-term yields in
Canada narrowed by 34 basis points in the quarter.  Foreign holdings of Canadian equities edged up $0.2 billion
in the second quarter, as acquisitions of new Canadian shares
were moderated by a second straight quarterly divestment on the
secondary market. Canadian stock prices were down by 6.4% in the
second quarter, with most of the losses recorded in May.  Canadian investors acquire foreign securities at a slower pace  Canadian investment in foreign securities was $2.6 billion
in the second quarter, the lowest such activity in a year.
Investors added foreign stocks and bonds to their holdings but
removed foreign paper from their portfolio for a fifth straight
quarter.  Investment in foreign stocks slowed to $2.1 billion from
$10.0 billion in the first quarter, with acquisitions in the
second quarter targeting the US stock market. Canadian investors
resumed their purchases of foreign bonds, mostly US corporate
debt denominated in Canadian dollars. The divestment in foreign
paper was mainly attributable to retirements, which led to a
further reduction in holdings of government short-term
instruments.  Foreign direct investment slows on lower mergers and
acquisitions activity  Foreign direct investment in Canada was $9.2 billion in the
second quarter, down from $15.4 billion in the first quarter.
Cross-border mergers and acquisitions were at their lowest level
since the third quarter of 2011 and accounted for all the
reduction. Canadian direct investment abroad was down by half to
reach $4.7 billion, also on lower mergers and acquisitions. This
was the third straight quarter of lower outward direct
investment.  Note to readers  The historical revision to the Canadian National Accounts
is scheduled for release beginning in October 2012. Information
on Canada’s Balance of International Payments new CANSIM tables
( http://sna/nea-cen/hr2012-rh2012/data-donnees/cansim/tables -
tableaux/bop-bdp/c-eng.htm) and output formats ( http://sna/nea -
cen/hr2012-rh2012/data-donnees/publications/tables-tableaux/bop-
bdp/tab-eng.htm) is now available on the National economic
accounts website.  The current account data in this release are seasonally
adjusted. For more information on seasonal adjustment, see
Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic trends
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/11-010-x/2010003/part-partie3 -
eng.htm).  The balance of international payments covers all economic
transactions between Canadian residents and non-residents in two
accounts, the current account and the capital and financial
account.  The current account covers transactions in goods, services,
investment income and current transfers.  The capital and financial account mainly comprises
transactions in financial assets and liabilities.  In principle, a current account surplus/deficit corresponds
to an equivalent net outflow/inflow in the capital and financial
account. In practice, as international transactions data are
compiled from multiple sources, this is rarely the case and
gives rise to measurement error. The statistical discrepancy is
the unobserved net inflow or outflow.  For more information about the balance of payments, consult
the “Frequently asked questions ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea -
cen/faq-foq/bp-eng.htm) " section in the National economic
accounts module of our website. The module also presents the
most recent balance of payments statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  