-- Carlyle Insiders Boost New Fund by Pledging $700 Million
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-08-30T14:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/carlyle-insiders-boost-new-fund-by-pledging-700-million.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s
second-biggest private-equity firm, said executives pledged more
than $700 million of their own money to its latest buyout fund,
boosting efforts to reach a $10 billion goal.  The insider commitments during the second quarter,
according to regulatory filings and a person with knowledge of
the firm, accounted for 35 percent of the $2 billion brought in
during its first fundraising round at the end of May. The
management’s contribution would represent at least 7 percent of
the target that the firm has set for Carlyle Partners VI LP.  Carlyle, led by co-founders  William Conway ,  Daniel
D’Aniello  and  David Rubenstein , is offering breaks such as lower
fees for big clients to entice investors in the most crowded
market for gathering money since 2009. Investors generally like
to see a substantial commitment from executives, which signals
confidence in the firm’s strategy. The Carlyle executives’
pledge is higher than the 2.5 percent median for private-equity
funds formed in 2011 and 2012, according to an annual study by
Preqin Ltd., a London-based research firm.  “That is going to be a meaningful commitment, well over
the norm,” said Thomas Bernhardt, a senior vice president at
TorreyCove Capital Partners, a  La Jolla ,  California , firm that
advises clients on private-equity funds. Investors always want
to see the managers of a fund make sizable commitment, he said.  Crowded Market  Money managers are seeking $217 billion for buyout funds
globally, the most since 2009, according to Preqin. KKR & Co. is
putting together a $8 billion to $10 billion buyout fund focused
on  North America , and  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  is gearing up
to raise as much as $12 billion for its latest private-equity
pool, people briefed on the matter said earlier this month.  As the market for raising money has gotten tougher,
commitments by private-equity managers have risen over the past
decade from about 1 percent, according to data from Preqin.  KKR put $500 million into its new North America buyout
fund, about 10 percent of the $5 billion initially raised,
according to a February filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. For a $15.2 billion for a buyout fund that
commenced investing last January,  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the
biggest private-equity firm, promised $719.7 million, including
$250 million from individual executives, according to  regulatory
filings . That would equal about 4.7 percent of the total.  Chris Ullman , a spokesman for Washington-based Carlyle,
declined to comment, as did  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for
Apollo in  New York , and Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for New
York-based KKR.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for New York-based
Blackstone, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Dupont Deal  Rubenstein, Carlyle’s co-chief executive officer who led
Carlyle’s  initial public offering  earlier this year, said on an
Aug. 8 earnings call that his firm raised $3.9 billion during
the second quarter, its highest amount for any single quarter
since 2008. That included $2 billion for the new buyout fund,
Rubenstein said, though he made no mention of how much money
came from within the firm, according to a transcript of the
call.  Carlyle agreed today to acquire DuPont Co.’s auto-paint
unit for $4.9 billion, giving it control of the second-biggest
maker of coatings for cars and trucks. The firm has been the
most acquisitive U.S. buyout manager this year, announcing 20
deals with a combined disclosed value of $16.3 billion,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Carlyle’s stock has gained 17 percent since its IPO on May
2. Blackstone is up 3.9 percent, while Apollo, the third-largest
U.S. buyout firm by assets, has increased 5.9 percent.  ‘Not Immune’  In marketing documents dated February 2012 obtained by
 Bloomberg News , Carlyle said that the firm and its principals
would make a capital commitment of at least $500 million to the
new fund “by the final round of fundraising.” About $200
million of that would come from Carlyle’s own coffers, based on
a policy of matching 2 percent of the capital commitments for
its buyout funds, with the remainder provided by employees.  Rubenstein also said that Carlyle is “not immune from
industrywide fundraising challenges” because new commitments to
private equity industrywide are still less than half of those
received in 2007. U.S. public pension plans, traditionally a
major source of capital for buyout funds, “might already be at
their allocation limits” for private equity, Rubenstein said,
adding that the average fund now takes 17 months to raise,
compared to nine months in 2004.  Investors “are being very deliberate,” Robert Lee, an
investment-services analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc.,
said in an interview. “It probably takes longer to get stuff to
the finish line.”  Aligning Interests  Carlyle’s quarterly report, filed with the SEC on Aug. 14,
shows corporate private-equity commitments by the firm and
“senior Carlyle professionals, operating executives and other
professionals” jumped to $1.79 billion as of June 30 from
$961.3 million as of March 31. Almost all of the increase
stemmed from commitments to Carlyle VI by senior personnel, said
the person familiar with the situation, who requested anonymity
because the firm hasn’t publicly discussed the specific figures.  “To further align our interests with those of investors in
our investment funds, we have invested our own capital and that
of our senior Carlyle professionals,” the firm said in the
disclosure documents for its initial public offering. Carlyle
managers have invested or committed to invest more than $5
billion in the firm’s funds since its founding in 1987 through
June 30, according to a fact sheet on the company’s website.  “Most firms put in 2 percent to 5 percent,” said Marc
Bonavitacola, the head of U.S. private equity at SVG Advisers
Inc. in  Boston . “It’s a function of how much money they have in
their pockets and what they have in expected carried interest,”
Bonavitacola added, referring to the portion of profits that
buyout managers receive after investors have gotten a specified
return.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  