-- Carlyle to Buy DuPont’s Auto-Paint Unit for $4.9 Billion
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-08-30T21:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/carlyle-to-buy-dupont-s-auto-paint-unit-for-4-9-billion.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s
second-largest private equity firm, agreed to acquire DuPont
Co.’s auto-paint unit for $4.9 billion, giving it control of the
second-biggest maker of coatings for cars and trucks.  Carlyle will fund its investment with equity from Carlyle
Partners V and Carlyle  Europe  Partners III, the companies said
today in a joint statement. The transaction value is $5.15
billion including Carlyle’s assumption of $250 million in
unfunded European pension liabilities, DuPont Chief Financial
Officer Nicholas Fanandakis said on a conference call.  The sale marks DuPont’s exit from the auto-paints market,
which it has served since the advent of the motor car. U.S. auto
output is still less than its pre-recession peak while the price
of titanium dioxide, a raw material used in paint, has surged.
DuPont Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  is
focusing on other industries such as food and biofuels. DuPont
hired Credit Suisse Group AG in October to seek buyers for the
unit, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  Kullman told investors in December that she would give the
business, which has the company’s narrowest profit margin, a
chance to meet company targets. Wilmington, Delaware-based
DuPont’s long-term goals for coatings included sales rising by 3
percent to 5 percent annually, the smallest targeted rise among
the company’s eight divisions.  “DuPont is striking while the iron is hot,” Jake Dollarhide, CEO at Longbow Asset Management Co. in Tulsa,
 Oklahoma , said in an interview. “There is a lot of hunger from
private equity right now.”  Apollo’s Withdrawal  Carlyle has been the most active buyer among the three
largest private-equity firms this year, agreeing to acquire at
least $16 billion of assets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the largest buyout firm, has
been involved in $6.8 billion of purchases, while  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO) , the third-biggest, has agreed to buy $7.9
billion of assets, the data show.  At least three other private-equity firms competed for the
auto-paint unit. Apollo withdrew from the bidding after
declining to top Carlyle’s offer, a person with knowledge of the
matter said Aug. 8. KKR & Co. and Onex Corp. ended a joint bid,
two people with knowledge of the matter said Aug. 1.  Largest Deal  The DuPont deal will close in the first quarter of 2013,
subject to regulatory approvals, the companies said. It would be
the largest in the coatings industry globally in at least a
decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The next
biggest was  PPG Industries Inc. (PPG) ’s 2.2 billion-euro ($2.76
billion) acquisition of SigmaKalon Group BV in 2008.  The DuPont auto-paint unit, which employs more than 11,000
people, saw second-quarter pretax operating  income  climb 26
percent to $92 million as revenue fell 1.4 percent to $1.09
billion. Sales will be more than $4 billion this year, Carlyle
and DuPont said in their statement.  Coatings in the last 12 months generated “slightly less
than” $500 million in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, Fanandakis said on a call with
reporters. Carlyle is paying at least 10 times ebitda, he said.
Coatings acquisitions averaged 9.7 times ebitda in the past
decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on 13 deals
exceeding $100 million.  Residual Costs  The coatings unit multiple is reduced to 7.8 times ebitda
after accounting for corporate costs previously allocated to the
business that DuPont is retaining, Michael J. Ritzenthaler, a
Minneapolis-based analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. who rates DuPont
the equivalent of a buy, said today in a report.  DuPont plans to eliminate the so-called residual costs
through the company’s “productivity program,” Fanandakis said.
DuPont will announce the amount of the costs in its third-
quarter earnings report, he said.  From the third quarter, DuPont will report the unit’s
results as earnings from discontinued operations, which it
expects will be 41 cents to 47 cents a share for 2012.  DuPont became an auto-paints industry leader with its $1.9
billion acquisition of Herberts GmbH from  Germany ’s Hoechst GmbH
in 1999. DuPont cut 1,500 coatings jobs and shut factories in
Europe seven years later after the business failed to achieve
financial targets.  ‘Megatrend’ Focus  DuPont is the biggest producer of coatings applied to used
autos, typically via body-repair shops, and the largest supplier
of new-car coatings after PPG, according to Gregg Schmidt, a
DuPont spokesman.  The company will use proceeds from the auto-paint sale
primarily to pay down debt, Fanandakis said. A strong balance
sheet helped DuPont through the financial crisis and allowed it
to move quickly to acquire Danisco A/S last year, he said.  Kullman is focusing DuPont’s growth on what she calls
“megatrends” arising from global  population growth : Improving
food quality and agricultural productivity, cutting reliance on
fossil fuels, and protecting the environment and people. She
expanded last year into food ingredients and biofuel enzymes
with the purchase of Danisco.  “The deal announced today is a continuation of the
transformation of DuPont,” Kullman said on the analyst call.
“As you look at the changes in our portfolio, you will see a
significant shift toward higher growth segments and more secular
growth markets.”  More than 60 percent of revenue will come from “higher
growth segments” after the divestiture, compared with about 40
percent in 2007, Fanandakis told reporters.  After the Carlyle deal is completed, DuPont will still sell
more than $3 billion of advanced materials to the  auto industry ,
it said today.  DuPont’s legal adviser on the transaction is Skadden Arps
Slate Meagher & Flom LLP, and its financial advisers are Credit
Suisse and Greenhill & Co. Its shares fell 0.7 percent to $49.58
at the close in  New York .  PPG is the biggest maker of coatings for cars and trucks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  