-- Carrefour to Cut Jobs as New CEO Plassat Seeks to Revive Grocer
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-08-30T13:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/carrefour-profit-declines-less-than-analysts-estimated-2-.html
     Aug. 30 (Bloomberg) -- Carrefour SA plans to cut as many as
600 administrative jobs in  France  as part of a three-year plan
formulated by Chief Executive Officer Georges Plassat to turn
around the world’s second largest retailer.  The redundancies will be voluntary and are “essential,”
Plassat, 63, said at a presentation in Paris after the  Boulogne
Billancourt , France-based company reported a smaller-than-
expected decline in first-half profit that boosted the shares.  Carrefour will also review businesses in markets such as
Poland, Turkey and Indonesia, where local chains are better
placed, said the CEO, who took over at the helm from Lars Olofsson in May. The retailer this week announced plans to exit
Singapore, where it has two stores, by the end of the year,
after agreeing to sell its Greek business to its local partner.  “We can’t spread ourselves too thin,” said Plassat,
calling for “vigilant” cost control across the business.
Carrefour needs to generate  cash flow  and reduce both the amount
and the cost of debt, he said.  The stock rose as much as 12 percent, the most in more than
two decades and the biggest gain in the Stoxx 600 Index, after
Carrefour said recurring operating income fell to 769 million
euros ($965 million) from 838 million euros. The median of 10
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 705 million euros.  Plassat is seeking to revive the retailer as  Europe ’s debt
crisis weighs on  consumer spending  and it struggles to attract
shoppers to its largest stores. His plan also includes giving
more control to store managers, focusing advertising spending
locally and online, and maintaining low prices on food, he said.  Looking Ahead  “The past is behind us, we need to look ahead,” the CEO
said, adding that the company has “all the ingredients” to
succeed. He declined to provide financial targets.  Carrefour, which has lowered its outlook for profit five
times in the past two years, remains comfortable with consensus
estimates for full-year earnings before interest and tax of as
much as 2.09 billion euros, excluding Greece, Chief Financial
Officer Pierre-Jean Sivignon said on a call to reporters.  The retailer has given “a solid first-half beat,”  James Grzinic , an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd., wrote in a
note. “In the context of a tough sales environment, solid
progress on costs has limited margin attrition.”  Recurring operating income advanced 10 percent in  Latin
America  and fell 4.1 percent in  Asia  because of wage inflation,
Carrefour said. Profit declined 32 percent in Europe, excluding
France, suffering from weakening economies, especially in the
southern part of the region.  Carrefour, which in March halted a 1.5 billion-euro plan to
remodel some of its largest European stores, remains committed
to businesses in mature markets, Plassat said. The value of its
operations in  Brazil  and  China  isn’t fully realized, he said.  The retailer is “in good shape” in China and has “no
worries” amid an economic slowdown there, Plassat also said.  Carrefour shares were up 11 percent at 17.56 euros as of
3:51 p.m. in Paris, the highest price since April 4. The Stoxx
600 Index fell 0.4 percent and the CAC Index slid 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  