-- Charlotte to Run Convention Charters Fought by Bus Firms
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-08-30T04:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/charlotte-to-run-convention-charters-fought-by-bus-firms.html
Charlotte ’s city-run bus agency in
 North Carolina  won a U.S. waiver to operate charters at next
week’s Democratic National Convention over the objections of
motorcoach companies which said they were being squeezed out.  The Federal Transit Administration’s decision temporarily
sets aside a U.S. rule prohibiting taxpayer-supported transit
authorities from competing with private bus operators. Similar
waivers were given for political conventions in 2008 and other
large, national events, Brian Farber, the FTA’s associate
administrator for communications and congressional affairs, said
in an e-mailed statement today.  “Between 80 and 90 percent of the bus services at the
convention will still be provided by private charter bus
operators,” Farber said. The action “will further ensure that
all convention participants, especially participants with
disabilities, have access to reliable and safe transportation
options during the event.”  Delegates to Sept. 4-6 convention will formally nominate
President  Barack Obama  to run for a second term.  The Charlotte Area Transit System said it needed an
exemption for the region to transport the 35,000 delegates,
journalists and other visitors expected at the convention. Its
buses are especially needed to transport people using
wheelchairs, Assistant City Attorney Lisa Flowers said in an
Aug. 7 letter to FTA Administrator Peter Rogoff. The system
asked for the waiver on June 1.  Below-Market Rates  The American Bus Association, a Washington-based trade
group that represents charter companies and intercity operators
like Greyhound Lines Inc. and Megabus, challenged Charlotte’s
request, saying there were more than enough private companies to
transport convention-goers. The group said the transit authority
didn’t prove it contacted all available operators and jumped in
too quickly to deny them a lucrative business opportunity.  No waivers were sought for this week’s  Republican National
Convention  in Tampa,  Florida , said Dan Ronan, a spokesman for
the bus association.  The Charlotte transit agency’s final request last week for
proposals for convention services offered to pay 25 percent to
30 percent less than market rates, Ronan said.  “Our guys would lose money at that rate,” Ronan said.
“The rule tries to make sure subsidized public transportation
companies can’t be competing private companies because they have
an unfair advantage.”  Disabled Visitors  The Charlotte transit system will have about 15 buses with
its own drivers available, Olaf Kinard, an agency spokesman,
said in an interview. The agency will provide another 45 buses
equipped to handle people with disabilities to a private charter
company, he said.  “We want the private contractors to have the opportunity
for the business,” Kinard said. “If there’s any need to assist
because they’re not able to meet the capacity, then we’re
here.”  Three hundred delegates spread among 56 hotels have
registered as needing wheelchair-accessible transportation,
Flowers said in her letter to Rogoff.  The bus association, in its appeal, said the Charlotte
transit agency hadn’t shown how it had reached out to private
bus companies. The agency’s recent request for proposals
followed at least two earlier solicitations by the  Democratic
National Committee , Kinard said.  In an order dated yesterday, Rogoff said there weren’t
enough accessible private vehicles to meet the DNC’s needs. The
Charlotte agency met the regulation’s requirement to contact all
registered charter providers in the Charlotte area, he said. As
of Aug. 27, the DNC had contracted with 40 private operators for
344 buses, 44 of which are accessible for people with
disabilities, he said.  “The shuttles required for the event will require the
combined resources of all available registered private carriers
and CATS,” Rogoff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  