-- Chelsea’s Fernando Torres Says Being Benched Taught Him Lesson
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-30T17:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/chelsea-s-fernando-torres-says-being-benched-taught-him-lesson.html
Fernando Torres  says being benched
by Chelsea after his U.K. record 50 million pound ($78.9 million)
transfer turned him into a better player. The Spaniard is
determined not to be a spectator again.  Speaking ahead of the London team’s  Super Cup  game against
his former team  Atletico Madrid  tomorrow, Torres said being left
out for as long as eight straight games last season taught him
“a lot of things” about himself.  Torres became captain of his home town team Atletico as a
teenager. He moved to Liverpool, where he scored 65 goals in 102
games, prompting Chelsea’s billionaire owner  Roman Abramovich  to
pay the record transfer amount. He didn’t find success in  London 
last season. During his worst run, Torres went five months and
25 straight games without scoring.  “I was in a very different situation last season because
I’d never been there before,” Torres told a press conference.
“When you’re there you understand what people go through on the
bench. It was a new experience. I learned a lot of things about
that, which made me a better teammate.”  Torres was a substitute in last season’s  Champions League 
final in which Didier Drogba’s late goal took the match to a
penalty shootout. Chelsea went on to win and gain its first
European title. Torres was brought into the game by coach
Roberto Di Matteo but didn’t take a penalty. Drogba has moved to
 China , allowing Torres to spearhead the team’s attack this
season.  The Spaniard has scored twice so far in the new campaign.
The west London team is leading the Premier League after
starting with three wins. That follows success with Spain at the
2012 European Championship, in which Torres finished joint top
scorer and the national team retained its title.  Confidence Returns  “I’m playing more minutes and the confidence is back,”
Torres said. “In these 18 months, I’ve become a better player.
I have played in a different way to that I played at Liverpool.
I can play more outside the box, associating more with my
teammates. I gave a lot of assists last season. I can mix it
more. This season I’m sure we’ll see that.”  Torres said he remains an Atletico Madrid fan. If he
extends his scoring run against his hometown team tomorrow he
says he won’t celebrate.  “It’s not only the club that trained me, developed me, but
built me as a person,” he said. “Everyone knows I’m an
Atletico fan and this will be an exceptional day, but we’ll be
trying to win. I have to leave these emotions behind. Afterwards,
I can go back to being an Atletico fan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in  Monte Carlo  via the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 