-- Chery Auto Widens Recall to Six Countries After Asbestos Found
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-30T04:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/chery-auto-widens-recall-to-six-countries-after-asbestos-found.html
Chery Automobile Co.,  China ’s
biggest car exporter, said it will widen a vehicle recall in
Australia this month to five more countries after finding
potential cancer-causing asbestos parts in some models.  Chery will recall a total of 18,875 vehicles in  Brazil ,
Uruguay,  Chile ,  Argentina  and  Singapore , according to Huang
Huaqiong, a spokesman for the closely held Wuhu, China-based
automaker. The carmaker and  Great Wall Motor Co. (2333)  on Aug. 16
recalled 23,000 vehicles in Australia after customs authorities
detected the banned material in engine and exhaust gaskets.  “The same supplier that provided the parts for the cars
made for Australia also mistakenly provided us parts containing
asbestos that went into these other cars,” Huang said by
telephone today, declining to name the supplier.  The widening call-back raises concern quality control may
be inadequate at Chinese automakers as they increase exports to
 emerging markets  and target expansion into developed countries
amid intensifying competition at home. Vehicle exports from
China may rise about 50 percent this year, extending record
shipments in 2011, the official trade chamber estimates.  “The recalls may damp  consumer confidence  in China-made
cars in the short to medium term, but the impact won’t be
major,” said Jeff Chung, an analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets
Hong Kong Ltd. “Chinese automakers have been counting on cheap
pricing as one of their major edges in overseas markets and the
recalls won’t weaken their advantages.”  Tiggo SUV  Chery, which sells to more than 80 countries and regions,
said at the time of the Australian announcement that workers had
mistakenly used a wrong batch of parts that wasn’t meant for
cars to be exported to Australia. The new round of recalls
covers the Tiggo sport utility vehicle and A3 compact cars sold
in the five countries, according to the company.  The carmaker sold a record 160,200 units overseas last
year, a 73 percent increase from 2010. In the first six months
of this year, the company exported 94,494 units, on track to
meet its full-year target of 170,000 units, according to a
 statement  on its website.  Great Wall, the biggest maker of SUVs and pick-up trucks in
China, hasn’t announced further recalls for asbestos parts since
Australia. No consumer had requested a change of vehicle because
of asbestos in Australia and exports haven’t been affected, Xu Hui, Great Wall secretary, said in  Hong Kong  on Aug. 27.  The company will issue recalls in line with the regulations
and laws of the markets where it sells its products, Shang
Yugui, a spokesman for Baoding, China-based Great Wall, said by
telephone today.  The official Xinhua News Agency reported the Chery recall
yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  