-- Chesapeake Squeezes Landowners on Costs Amid Cash Crunch
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-08-31T14:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/chesapeake-squeezes-landowners-on-costs-amid-cash-crunch.html
Donna Thornton made sure to include
a no-cost provision in her contract with  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) 
that let the driller harvest natural gas beneath 2.5 acres of
her property in  Louisiana .  Thinking she had excluded production and marketing expenses
and would therefore secure higher royalty payments, the  Texas 
accountant said she was shocked when she confirmed in July that
the second-biggest  U.S. gas producer  was passing costs on to
her. For Thornton and thousands more owners of mineral rights in
the U.S., “no-costs” in drilling leases has taken on new
meaning.  As gas prices were heading toward a 10-year low in April,
Chesapeake began reinterpreting in its favor thousands of
contracts with landowners from  Pennsylvania  to Texas that own
the 1 trillion cubic feet of gas the company produced last year,
according to interviews and documents reviewed by Bloomberg.
Chesapeake, arguing that other contract language allows for cost
deductions, is fighting more than a dozen lawsuits.  “I don’t want to sound like I’m a bitter, disgruntled
royalty owner, but this isn’t fair,” Thornton said. “Don’t do
sneaky tricks. If it belongs to the royalty owners, it belongs
to the royalty owners.”  While Thornton hasn’t sued, saying she is dissuaded by the
potential hassle and cost, other property owners have taken
Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake to court in states including
Texas,  Arkansas , Oklahoma, Louisiana and  Kansas  alleging
underpayment of royalties. The lawsuits include at least eight
cases brought so far this year, two of which were filed as class
actions seeking to represent multiple royalty owners.  Standard Practice  Legal battles over royalty payments on oil and gas
production are as old as the industry itself, said  Anthony Sabino , a law professor at  St. John’s University  in  New York  who
specializes in complex litigation and oil-and-gas law. Producers
such as Chesapeake have been motivated to minimize royalty
payments as profits have been pinched by falling gas prices that
remain 30 percent lower than two years ago.  Litigation may increase as lower gas prices -- and royalty
checks -- lead landowners to scrutinize their contract terms and
any deductions to cover the cost to bring gas to market, said
Dana Kirk, a Houston-based attorney who has represented dozens
of royalty owners.  “The tide goes in and out, depending on the overall
economy and the specific economic prospects of the parties,”
Sabino said. “Companies that are under heavy financial stress
are more likely to push the envelope. Even the most honest
companies, when prices and profits are dropping, will look to
save money.”  Declining Value  Chesapeake lost about $9 billion in  market value  in the
past year. Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  was stripped
of his chairman’s title in June amid investigations into
conflicts of interest between his personal financial dealings
and his management duties.  Michael Kehs, a company spokesman,
declined to comment on the investigations.  Chesapeake follows all state laws and contractual lease
terms in compensating leaseholders, and the company has paid
more in lease bonuses and royalties than any other exploration
and production company, Kehs said in an e-mail message. The
company, which reported  $12.4 billion  in revenue last year, has
paid $25 billion in royalties and lease bonuses to landowners in
the past 12 years, Kehs said. It has contracts to drill on more
than 15 million acres in the U.S.  Challenging Market  “The current price environment for natural gas is
challenging for producers and royalty owners alike,” Kehs said.
“When natural gas prices move higher, royalty owners should
receive higher royalties.”  Chesapeake rose 2.4 percent to $19.50 a share at 10:28 a.m.
in New York trading. Natural gas for October delivery fell 2.5
cents, or 0.9 percent, to $2.773 per million British thermal
units at 10:07 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
futures have declined 7.2 percent this year and are heading for
the first monthly decline since March.  Gas producers have taken different approaches to expense
deductions, at times abiding by no-cost provisions, and in other
cases contending the provisions are nullified by other language
in the contract, or by state law.  Chesapeake argued successfully this year to a Louisiana
federal court that a provision to pay royalties on “market
value” of the gas allowed it to deduct costs. The  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Cincinnati in February 2011 found that Kentucky state
law stipulating royalties to be paid on an “at the well” price
also includes costs, upholding the dismissal of claims by
Kentucky royalty owners who had argued otherwise.  Marathon Settlement  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  last year agreed to pay $40 million to
settle a lawsuit brought by Oklahoma royalty owners who claimed
the company underpaid royalties, in part by making improper
deductions. Marathon denied any liability or wrongdoing,
according to the settlement agreement.  London-based  BP Plc (BP/) ’s American unit won an appeals court
decision last month reversing a $13 million jury verdict on
underpayment claims awarded to New Mexico royalty owners in
2011.  The disputes usually come down to the sophistication of the
contracts, which varies widely, said Sabino.  “You’ll see 75-page royalty agreements and other royalty
deals that are written on the back of an envelope,” he said.  Royalties are a share of proceeds from the sale of oil and
gas, paid to owners of mineral rights. Payments are based on
state laws and the terms outlined in contracts, which vary from
lease to lease. As hundreds of thousands of U.S. landowners were
approached about leasing their mineral rights during the past
decade’s boom in U.S. shale field production, how expenses were
handled became a key point of negotiation.  Cost Drain  Deducting costs for processing, transporting and marketing
gas before royalties are calculated can reduce the amount
producers owe by 25 percent to 50 percent. About one in five
landowners in Texas have signed contracts specifying that
producers pay them based on a price before those costs are
deducted, said Tom Hazlewood, an appraiser of royalty leases
whose business reviews hundreds of properties annually for tax
purposes.  For the same gas from the same well under the same contract
terms, Thornton, the Texas accountant, says she has been paid
about 25 percent more for her gas by  Plains Exploration &
Production Co. (PXP) , which in 2008 bought a 20 percent stake in
Chesapeake’s acreage in the Louisiana Haynesville shale
formation.  Different Math  The two companies pay her in separate checks, and she said
she discovered the cost deductions when Plains paid her back for
expenses it had been subtracting since 2010. Chesapeake has not
refunded any costs, she said. Hance Myers, a Plains spokesman,
declined to comment.  In August 2011, when gas prices had fallen 14 percent from
the year earlier and were sliding toward a 10-year intraday low
of $1.902 in April, Chesapeake notified royalty owners in North
Texas that it would begin deducting costs from royalties.  The decision came after Chesapeake partnered with  Total SA (FP) 
in 2010 in a $2.25 billion deal that gave the French  oil company 
a 25 percent stake in Chesapeake’s wells in the region.
Chesapeake reviewed lease terms after Total said it wanted to
deduct costs, Henry Hood, Chesapeake’s general counsel, told the
Fort Worth Star-Telegram newspaper in an Aug. 10, 2011 story.  On Jan. 24, Chesapeake notified landowners in Pennsylvania
of its intent to deduct costs, citing a March 2010 state supreme
court ruling that confirmed deductions were allowed.  90 Percent Cut  The costs range from 70 cents to $1 per 1,000 cubic feet of
gas produced, Hood told the Fort Worth, Texas, newspaper.
Coupled with lower gas prices, the deductions mean some royalty
owners have seen their payments slashed by more than 90 percent
this year, with Chesapeake paying as little as 11 percent of the
price paid by rival energy producers, more than two dozen
leaseholders in Texas and Louisiana said in lawsuits and
interviews.  Chesapeake has paid royalties in North Texas based on a gas
price as low as 11 cents per million cubic feet, eight or nine
times less than producers including  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  and  EOG
Resources Inc. (EOG) , Hazlewood, the tax appraiser, and other royalty
owners said.  In one of the largest lawsuits Chesapeake is fighting,
about 3,000 Kansas royalty owners accuse Chesapeake of deducting
costs in violation of lease agreements and state law. The suit
was certified as a class action in federal court in Wichita,
Kansas, in 2011 allowing well owners to pursue claims against
Chesapeake as a group. A nonjury trial is set for April.  Varied Results  Past verdicts and settlements in royalty disputes indicate
a wide range of outcomes, even when royalty owners win. In 2007,
a class of West Virginia royalty owners won a $404 million jury
verdict against Columbia Natural Resources, which Chesapeake
purchased after the lawsuit was filed. Chesapeake paid about $40
million of the ultimate $380 million settlement, while a prior
owner paid the rest. In 2001, Chesapeake paid $3.4 million to
settle a class action brought by Virginia royalty owners
claiming the company made improper deductions.  The record in class actions is mixed. While Chesapeake
settled the Virginia case and owners in Kansas won the right to
sue as a group, the company has won dismissals of proposed class
actions in Kentucky,  Ohio  and New York. The Ohio and New York
cases are on appeal.  Magnolia Point  Plaintiffs are seeking to pursue their claims for
underpayment of royalties as class actions in at least four
other lawsuits -- two in Arkansas, one each in Oklahoma and
Louisiana.  In a case brought by Magnolia Point Minerals LLC, which
owns mineral rights on land in the Haynesville formation in
western Louisiana, the court backed Chesapeake’s interpretation
that a contract allowed cost deductions despite a clause
forbidding them.  Magnolia Point complained that Chesapeake pays less on a
Louisiana lease than the company’s partner, a subsidiary of
Houston-based Plains Exploration & Production Co. called PXP
Louisiana that has a 20 percent stake. Under the same contract,
PXP hasn’t been deducting production costs and Chesapeake has,
Magnolia said.  U.S. District Judge S. Maurice Hicks Jr. in Shreveport,
Louisiana, agreed that a provision to base royalty payments on
the “market value at the well” allows the deduction of costs
despite the no-cost clause.  Costs Included  The term market value at the well “stands for the
proposition that post-production costs are to be taken out of
production payments,” Hicks said in his July 30 ruling. Costs
after determining market value at the well can’t be deducted, he
said.  David Taggart, Magnolia’s lawyer, said he was reviewing the
decision to determine the effect on the case.  PXP’s decision not to deduct costs doesn’t mean that
Chesapeake is wrong to do so, Nicole Duarte, a Chesapeake
lawyer, argued at a hearing April 12 in the lawsuit.  Chesapeake has been more willing to fight for its own
interpretation of contracts than some other companies, Duarte
said.  “There are a lot of decisions involved in whether or not
you’re going to take on a fight for your interpretation,”
Duarte told the court. “Chesapeake’s an 80 percent interest
holder in this lease and has the biggest interest across the
Haynesville Shale of anyone. So Chesapeake is probably more
willing to take on the fights to get its interpretation
recognized.”  Irrelevant Comparison  What other companies pay in royalties may not be relevant
or admissible in trials, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Denver
ruled in July, reversing a $13 million jury verdict against BP
America Production Co. in a class action brought by New Mexico
royalty owners.  Evidence that ConocoPhillips didn’t take deductions
shouldn’t have been admitted, the appeals court said in ordering
a new trial. ConocoPhillips’ “royalty practices had no
bearing” on BP’s obligations.  The cases include: Arkalon Grazing Association v.
Chesapeake, 09-01394, U.S. District Court, District of Kansas
(Wichita); Magnolia Point Minerals LLC v. Chesapeake Louisiana,
11-00854, U.S. District Court, Western District of Louisiana
(Shreveport); Hill v. Marathon Oil, 08-cv-0037, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Oklahoma (Oklahoma City).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  