-- China August Iron Ore Estimated to Drop 10% as Prices Fall
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-30T10:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/china-august-iron-ore-estimated-to-drop-10-as-prices-fall-1-.html
China ’s iron ore output probably
fell about 10 percent this month as tumbling prices squeezed out
costly producers and steelmakers used cheaper imports, the China
Metallurgical Mining Enterprise Association said.  Production will be about 115 million metric tons this month,
little changed from July, Lei Pingxi, executive vice chairman of
the association, said today in an interview in Suzhou at a
Umetal conference. Output was 127.5 million tons in August last
year, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  The nation’s iron ore output had the steepest decline in
July in four years, as the world’s largest metals consumer
increased purchases from producers such as  Brazil ’s  Vale SA (VALE3)  and
Rio Tinto Group. Prices tumbled 35 percent this year to $90.30 a
dry ton yesterday, the lowest level since November 2009,
according to a gauge compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  “The competitiveness of Chinese  iron ore  mines is falling
because of falling prices, higher construction costs and
taxes,” Lei said. About 42 percent of China’s iron ore mines
have production costs of greater than $100 a ton, he said.  China’s iron ore output in the three months to the end of
August is about 5 percent lower than the previous three months,
Lei said. The capacity use ratio at Chinese miners was 62
percent, according to researcher Umetal.com.  Supply, Demand  Global seaborne iron ore supply may rise 50 million tons
in the second half this year from the first half, while demand
may decline, Zhang Dianbo, the general manager of raw-material
purchasing at China’s second-largest steelmaker Baosteel Group
Corp., said at the conference.  Chinese steelmakers, overwhelmed by increasing capacity and
sluggish demand, have struggled to remain profitable as steel
prices dropped to an almost three-year low this month. Domestic
mills had a combined loss of 1.9 billion yuan ($299 million) in
July, with an average profit margin of just 0.03 percent in the
seven months to July, Wang Xiaoqi, vice chairman of China Iron
and Steel Association, said today.  Still, Chinese mills haven’t made significant production
cuts, Umetal analyst Zhang Jiabin said. The steelmakers’
operating rate at Tangshan in  Hebei province , China’s biggest
region by output, is 91 percent, up from 78 percent in October,
he said.  China’s ore contains about 20 percent iron, compared with
more than 55 percent in Australian ore, making it more expensive
to extract, Deutsche Bank AG estimates. China has about 1,500
iron ore producers nationwide, with 1,000 smaller mines
accounting for about a third of output, Lei said.  Floor Price  Iron ore prices are well below recognized floor prices of
$120 a ton, suggesting high-cost iron ore supply closures will
not be far off,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  said
Aug. 28.  The recent plunge in prices prompted contract ore buyers to
seek other ways to price the steelmaking raw material. The
current pricing method, based on indexes, doesn’t reflect the
needs of larger buyers and needs improvement, Baosteel’s Zhang
said. The Shanghai-based company buys ore on a quarterly basis.  As much as 10 percent of globally traded ore is sold
through public auctions, while the remaining 90 percent is
bought at index prices that are determined by bids, he said.  Australia and Brazil accounted for 66.2 percent of China’s
total ore imports in the first half, up from 64 percent last
year as imports from  India  dwindled, Umetal said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  