-- China’s Stocks Head for Fourth Monthly Loss as Earnings Falter
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-30T08:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/china-s-stock-futures-drop-as-jiangxi-copper-cosco-profits-fall.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index down for a fourth straight month, after
companies from  China Cosco Holdings Co. (601919)  to  China  Shipping
Container Lines Co. reported first-half losses.  China Cosco, the world’s largest operator of dry-bulk
ships, and China Shipping Container, the country’s second-
largest carrier of sea-cargo boxes, dropped to their lowest
levels since they listed in 2007. Steelmaker Beijing Shougang
Co. sank 3.4 percent after forecasting a loss for the first nine
months.  Sinolink Securities Co. (600109)  paced gains by brokerages after
the  Shanghai  Securities News said regulators expanded margin
financing today.  “There’s no sign of the economy or corporate earnings
picking up,” said Dai Ming, a  fund manager  at Hengsheng
Hongding Asset Management Co. in Shanghai, which manages $190
million. “Stock valuations are pretty low and that may attract
bargain hunters betting on technical rebounds or government
policy loosening.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped less than 0.1 percent
to 2,052.59, its lowest close since February 2009, as almost
three stocks dropped for each that rose. The gauge has dropped
2.4 percent this month. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  declined 0.2 percent
to 2,211.37 today, while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) 
of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong  sank 1.5 percent. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, fell 0.7 percent in  New York 
yesterday.  Signs that China’s economic slowdown is deepening have
dragged the Shanghai Composite down 7.8 percent this quarter,
the worst performer after Cyprus among 93 global stock benchmark
index tracked by Bloomberg. The gauge is down 6.7 percent for
the year and 2.4 percent in August.  Cosco Loss  China Cosco dropped 1.2 percent to 3.98  yuan . The company
said its loss widened to 4.87 billion yuan ($767 million) in the
first six months from 2.76 billion yuan a year earlier as a
global capacity glut sapped shipping rates.  China Shipping Container slid 2.3 percent to 2.13 yuan
after doubling its first-half loss from a year earlier to 1.28
billion yuan.  Beijing Shougang tumbled 3.4 percent to 2.85 yuan. The
steelmaker said it expects a net loss of between 320 million
yuan and 420 million yuan in the nine months to September.  Fifty-seven percent of companies in the Shanghai Composite
missed analysts’ estimates for quarterly profit, while 41
percent beat projections, according to  data  on 221 earnings
reports compiled by Bloomberg.  Margin Financing  Sinolink Securities jumped 10 percent to 11.87 yuan.  Citic
Securities Co. (600030) , China’s biggest listed brokerage, advanced 1.7
percent to 10.34 yuan. Haitong Securities Co., the second
largest, added 2.7 percent to 8.29 yuan.  China Securities Finance Co. allowed 11 brokerages to
borrow money and lend to investors for margin financing today,
the Shanghai Securities News reported. The move may bring about
10 billion yuan of new capital into the stock market today, the
China Securities Journal reported separately.  CSR Corp. (601766) , the nation’s biggest train maker, rose 1 percent
to 4.06 yuan after its parent bought 471,000 shares in the
company yesterday.  Publicly traded companies, especially those whose stock
prices are below their book values, have an obligation to buy
back their own shares, the China Securities Journal reported
Aug. 2, citing an unidentified official at the China Securities
Regulatory Commission.  Stock Holdings  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (601318) , the nation’s second-biggest
insurer, doesn’t plan to raise its holdings in equities because
the economy has yet to bottom, the Shanghai Securities News
reported today, cited Chief Investment Officer Timothy Chan.  China’s gross domestic product expanded 7.6 percent last
quarter, the slowest pace in three years, as  Europe ’s debt
crisis hurt exports and Premier Wen Jiabao’s campaign to cool
consumer and property prices damped domestic demand. Bank of
America Corp. estimates a further slowdown to 7.4 percent in the
three months through September.  The People’s Bank of China cut  interest rates  in June and
July for the first time since 2008 and has lowered banks’
reserve requirements three times starting in November.  Declines on the Shanghai gauge have dragged valuations to
9.3 times estimated earnings, compared with an average multiple
of 17.1 for the past five years, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Relatively Disappointing  China’s stocks are cheap and may get cheaper depending on
policy moves, Jonathan Lowe, managing director and senior
portfolio manager of JPMorgan Asset Management Ltd. said in an
interview yesterday. China is a liquidity- and policy-driven
market and government policy actions have been relatively
disappointing so far, he said.  New bank loans may increase from July in the next several
months as the government boosts investment in infrastructure
projects, according to a report from Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. published in the Shanghai Securities News
today.  The National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing are due to release a manufacturing
index for this month on Sept. 1. The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
may fall to 50 from 50.1 in July, according to the median
estimate of 24 economists by Bloomberg. Fifty marks the dividing
line between expansion and contraction.  Further Downside Risk  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at 12.2
today, compared with this year’s average of 17.2. About 6
billion shares changed hands in the gauge today, 23 percent
lower than the daily average this year.  Chinese equities fell in New York, driving the benchmark
index to the lowest level in three weeks.  The  iShares FTSE
China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese exchange-traded fund in
the U.S., slid 0.3 percent to $33.50 yesterday.  “There’s further downside risk for Chinese equities,”
Michael Ding, lead portfolio manager of the China Regional Fund
at U.S. Global Investors, which oversees about $2 billion, said
in a phone interview from  San Antonio .  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  