-- China Communications Shuns Profitless Domestic Rail for Africa
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-08-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/china-communications-shuns-profitless-domestic-rail-for-africa.html
China Communications Construction
Co. (1800) ’s rail-building unit plans to focus more on overseas lines
after failing to profit from 180 billion  yuan  ($28 billion) of
projects in its home market.  The company will only bid for domestic rail projects that
it can make money on instead of placing low offers to win market
share, Chairman Zhou Jichang said yesterday in an interview in
 Hong Kong . The Beijing-based builder,  China ’s second-biggest by
market value, has traditionally focused on ports and roads.  “Our expansion into the domestic rail business was a bit
blind,” Zhou said. “We aimed at market share over
 profitability , but now we’ve learned our lesson.”  The  company  has already won about $6 billion of rail
contracts this year in Ethiopia, Tanzania and Kenya through its
overseas push and talks about a line for mine on the continent
are under way, Zhou said. The builder is also considering
investments in miners and making acquisitions in  Europe  to pare
its reliance on China’s slowing construction market.  “We have to be well prepared,” Zhou said. “It would be
too late to seek a new source of  revenue  if the market started
shrinking.” He declined to elaborate further on the potential
deals.  Earnings Drop  The builder, which also operates China’s largest fleet of
dredgers, reported a 14 percent drop in first-half earnings this
week because of the domestic slowdown.  China Railway Group Ltd. (390) 
and China Railway Construction Corp., the nation’s two biggest
rail builders, both reported lower profits late yesterday.  China’s fixed asset investment in transportation, storage
and postal facilities dropped 2 percent in the first half from a
year earlier, according to the nation’s statistics bureau.  China Communications fell 6 percent yesterday in Hong Kong
trading to close at HK$6.23. It’s declined 22 percent in the
past six months,  compared  with an 8.6 percent drop for China
Railway Group and a 5.7 percent fall for China Railway
Construction.  The company won $6.94 billion of overseas infrastructure
contracts in the first half, a 63 percent increase from a year
earlier. Its foreign projects include developing a port and
building a stadium in Qatar for the 2022 soccer  World Cup .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  