-- Copper Demand in China Seen Growing at Slowest Pace in 15 Years
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-30T11:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/china-copper-demand-said-to-expand-at-slowest-pace-in-15-years.html
Copper consumption in  China , the
world’s biggest user, is expected to expand this year at the
slowest rate since 1997 as economic growth cools, according to
Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  Usage may increase 5 percent to about 7.7 million metric
tons supported by demand from the power industry, Yang Changhua,
who’s studied the market for more than a decade, said in a phone
interview from Beijing. “It could turn out to be even lower,
and we’re not optimistic about next year,” Yang said yesterday.  Slower demand growth will probably curb prices of the metal
used to make cables and pipes, deterring mining companies such
as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  from expansion and hurting sales at
smelters including Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s largest. Premier
 Wen Jiabao  has urged more measures to support the economy that’s
targeted to grow 7.5 percent this year. The country boosted
spending in 2008 to ward off the impact of the global recession.  “This time is different from 2008,” said Yang. Growth in
copper demand “reached almost 10 percent as Beijing’s stimulus
package boosted infrastructure construction then, but now even
if there are stimulus policies, the potential for further growth
is relatively small.”  Benchmark three-month copper traded at $7,620.25 a ton on
the London Metal Exchange at 7:42 p.m. in  Shanghai , 0.3 percent
higher this year after slumping 21 percent in 2011. The contract
reached a record $10,190 a ton in February last year.  Lower Forecast  “The average growth rate in the next five years will be 4
percent to 5 percent at best” as China’s  potential expansion 
slows, Yang said. Antaike’s latest forecast was cut from an
initial estimate of 6.4 percent, made at the end of last year.  Yang’s comments add to signs China’s slowdown is hurting
commodities. BHP Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  said
this month he expected long-term price declines for its products
because of the Chinese slowdown.  Weiqiao Textile Co. (2698) , China’s
largest cotton-textile maker, said on Aug. 20 that the world’s
second-largest economy was at the start of a “harsh winter,”
and commodities such as coal and steel were piling up.  Antaike’s outlook for copper-demand growth compares with an
estimate of 4.2 percent from China International Capital Corp.,
according to an Aug. 22 report. Consumption may increase 6.6
percent to 8.28 million tons this year, Barclays Plc said in an
Aug. 16 report, forecasting a global copper deficit.  ‘Resilient’ Imports  Refined  imports  in the first seven months surged 67 percent
to 2.14 million tons compared with a year earlier, customs data
showed. Consumption growth was “very resilient,” in the first
half,  Max Layton , an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said
in a July 25 report. Copper will rise to $8,000 in three months
and $9,000 in six months, said Goldman, which forecast a pickup
in  China’s economy  in the second half.  China’s manufacturing may contract at a faster pace this
month as a preliminary reading for a purchasing managers’ index
from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics on Aug. 23 stood at
47.8. The gauge hasn’t shown an expansion since October.  Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley
this month cut their forecasts for the nation’s gross domestic
product growth in 2012. Expansion in the second quarter was 7.6
percent, the slowest pace in three years.  Copper prices are unlikely to pick up in the second half,
Jiangxi Copper said yesterday as the company reported a 38
percent slump in first-half profit. The shares dropped 1.9
percent to HK$16.78 in  Hong Kong , dropping for a fifth day.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  