-- Ciena Tumbles on Wider Losses, Weak Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-08-30T20:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/ciena-tumbles-after-sluggish-economy-crimps-sales-widens-loss.html
Ciena Corp. (CIEN) , a maker of
communications-network equipment, tumbled the most in more than
three years after reporting a wider-than-projected loss and
forecasting lower revenue than analysts had estimated.  Excluding restructuring expenses and other items, the
third-quarter loss was 4 cents a share, Linthicum, Maryland-
based Ciena said today in a statement. Analysts had estimated a
2-cent loss on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Ciena had an adjusted profit of 8 cents a share a year earlier.  The economy is taking a toll, and Ciena has been slow to
book revenue on new products, Chief Executive Officer  Gary Smith 
said. Ciena’s  biggest customers  are phone carriers, such as AT&T
Inc. and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   “We are not immune from what’s going on in the world,”
Smith said today in an interview. The European slowdown and a
pause in orders caused by the Olympics has been a drag on the
business.  Ciena shares  fell 20 percent to close at $13.46 in  New York 
today, the biggest decline since December 2008. The stock had
advanced 38 percent this year through yesterday.  Sales will be $455 million to $480 million in the fourth
quarter, which ends in October, Ciena said. That missed the
$499.2 million predicted by analysts. Revenue rose 8.9 percent
to $474.1 million in the third quarter, which ended July 31.
That was in line with estimates.  Carriers are being more selective with their  capital
expenditures , Smith said.  “Overall, cap ex is pretty flat,” said Smith, adding that
making the situation worse is the slow pace of working Ciena’s
gear into customers’ systems.  “It’s not an installation issue, but more of a software
integration issue,” said Smith. “These networks are very
complex.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  