-- Citigroup Pays ATD Executives Again in $590 Million Deal
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-30T15:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/citigroup-pays-atd-executives-again-in-590-million-deal.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  paid $680 million in
cash and stock to David Whitcomb and other shareholders of
Automated Trading Desk LLC when it bought the firm in 2007. Five
years later, the bank will have to pay them again.  ATD founder Whitcomb, 69, and other former investors led a
class-action lawsuit against Citigroup, claiming executives
concealed toxic assets from shareholders and caused the stock to
plunge in value. The bank, the third-biggest in the U.S., agreed
to pay $590 million to end the claims, which would be among the
biggest settlements by a Wall Street firm in the aftermath of
the financial crisis.  “We’re getting a small fraction of the total loss that a
reasonable person would ascribe to Citigroup’s actions,” said
Whitcomb, a former professor of finance at  Rutgers University 
who received more than $100 million in cash and stock from the
ATD deal. “But we’re getting something and that’s pleasing.”  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  is still
dealing with the fallout from the bank’s practices before the
financial crisis, when it almost collapsed amid losses tied to
subprime home loans. In addition to the shareholder lawsuit,
regulators accused the New York-based firm of misleading
investors in $1 billion in securities linked to risky mortgages,
and the lender paid $75 million in 2010 to settle claims it
failed to disclose some subprime investments.  January Hearing  “For Citigroup not to challenge it in court meant that
they knew they didn’t have a chance to win,” said Gerald Hanweck, a former Federal Reserve economist who’s now a finance
professor at  George Mason University  in Fairfax, Virginia. “It
would be tough to find a shareholder settlement in excess of
this.”  The class-action, or group, suit was brought on behalf of
Whitcomb, another former ATD executive, Jonathan Butler, and
other investors who acquired Citigroup shares during the period
Feb. 26, 2007, through April 18, 2008. U.S. District Judge
 Sidney Stein  in Manhattan, who is presiding over the case,
yesterday granted preliminary approval to the unopposed
agreement and set a hearing for Jan. 15.  Lawyers’ Fees  The deal would be the third-biggest shareholder class-
action settlement to arise from the credit crisis, based on data
from Nera Economic Consulting, which provides advice in
lawsuits. Legal representatives for the plaintiffs, including
Kirby McInerney LLP, are entitled to 17 percent, or more than
$100 million, of the settlement, according to legal filings.
Citigroup didn’t admit wrongdoing in the settlement.  Whitcomb, who has a doctorate in economics from  Columbia
University , became a professor at  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based Rutgers in 1980 and founded ATD in 1988. He and his wife
owned about 20 percent of the firm, which was described as a
“pioneer” of electronic trading technology in a 2002 press
release. Employees owned about 60 percent, he said.  ‘Reasonable Outcome’  “These shareholders were people who believed in my company
and deserved a reasonable outcome,” Whitcomb said in a phone
interview. He wasn’t sure of how much money he and his wife are
going to get from the settlement.  In 2007, amid falling property prices, then-CEO Charles O. “Chuck” Prince was seeking to expand Citigroup’s ability to
process trades electronically. He bought ATD for $680 million,
including $102.6 million in cash and about 11.17 million
 Citigroup shares . On Oct. 3, the day the deal closed, the bank’s
stock closed at the equivalent of $478.90.  The deal pushed Citigroup into the ranks of the five
largest brokers on the  New York  Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Stock
Market, according to data on the exchanges’ websites. ATD
handled more than 200 million shares a day, including orders
from retail brokers, the bank said then.  About the same time, Citigroup was using a “quasi-Ponzi
scheme” to give the appearance that its assets were healthy,
the lawsuit plaintiffs said in court documents. The firm and
some of its former senior officers and directors “materially
misrepresented” the exposure to so-called collateralized debt
obligations, or CDOs, financial instruments that were often tied
to subprime mortgages.  Bank Guarantees  Citigroup told investors it had sold billions of dollars of
CDOs and no longer faced a risk, the plaintiffs alleged. The
bank didn’t reveal that it had guaranteed the securities if they
suffered losses, according to the complaint. Citigroup
transferred the guarantees to entities it set up to hide the
risks, the investors alleged.  “This complaint arises because Citigroup responded to the
widely known financial crisis by concealing both the extent of
its ownership of toxic assets -- most prominently CDOs backed by
nonprime mortgages -- and the risks associated with them,” the
plaintiffs alleged in December 2008. “Defendants omitted to
disclose the existence or acknowledge the market value of our
 risks  associated with tens of billions of dollars of financial
instruments.”  Steep Declines  When CDO indexes showed steep declines in the value of the
securities, Citigroup didn’t adjust its valuations, relying
instead on higher evaluations from ratings firms or sales to
itself, according to the amended complaint.  Citigroup shares fell 52 percent during the class period as
losses mounted, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
bank’s board ousted Prince as CEO and replaced him with Pandit,
55, in December 2007.  Shares tumbled 77 percent overall in 2008 as the bank  lost 
$27.7 billion and took a $45 billion bailout from U.S.
taxpayers, which was later repaid. Some of the shares that ATD
directors and employees received were restricted, making them
harder to sell as the price fell, Whitcomb said.  Pension Funds  “Most of us ended up losing a lot of money when Citigroup
stock went south,” he said. “We’re very happy that it’s
finally been resolved and that there will be a settlement not
just for ATD shareholders, who were grievously mistreated, but
perhaps up to a million other Citigroup  shareholders  during that
period.”  Other plaintiffs included the  Public Employees’ Retirement
Association of Colorado  and Pensionskassernes Administration
A/S, a Danish pension fund manager with 20.6 billion euros
($25.8 billion) under management at the end of 2011, according
to its website.  Citigroup denied the allegations and said it agreed to the
settlement solely to eliminate the uncertainties, burden and
expense of further protracted litigation. The amount to be paid
under the proposed settlement is covered by Citigroup’s existing
litigation reserves, the bank said.  Revolutionary Tennis  The bank’s stock rose 1.9 percent to $29.91 after
yesterday’s announcement. It has advanced 12 percent so far this
year.  “Citi is fundamentally a different company today than at
the beginning of the financial crisis,” the bank said in the
 statement . “Citi has overhauled risk management, reduced risk
exposures and through our core businesses in Citicorp, we are
focused on the basics of banking, leveraging our unique presence
throughout the emerging and developed markets to serve our
clients and the real economy.”  Whitcomb left ATD after the deal closed and is now chief
financial officer at Revolutionary Tennis Innovations LLC, a New
York-based company that is testing a new type of tennis racket.
Whitcomb said the new racket has more power than conventional
ones and predicted it would replace current models in five
years.  Executives Hired  Other executives joined the ranks of Citigroup’s equities-
trading division, including Daniel Keegan, who rose to become
head of the bank’s electronic-trading and cash equities
businesses. The bank’s shares are down 94 percent since the ATD
deal closed Oct. 3, 2007.  “Now that it’s over, I can say that it was interesting,”
said Whitcomb about leading the class-action suit. “I won’t say
it was fun, but we did feel we were doing one last thing for our
shareholders that we thought was right to do.”  The case is In re Citigroup Inc. Securities Litigation, 07-
cv-9901, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  