-- Nadar’s HCL Cuts Rates to Tap $15 Billion Deals: Corporate India
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-08-31T11:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/hcl-may-cut-rates-to-tap-15-billion-of-deals-corporate-india.html
HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT) , the Indian
 software developer  founded by billionaire Shiv Nadar, plans to
cut prices to tap $15 billion of orders as companies switch
suppliers of information technology to save cash.  “Today the customer is very angry with the existing
vendors and very unhappy with their level of service and
support,” HCL’s Chief Executive Officer Vineet Nayar said in an
interview in London. The contracts were written before the
economic crisis in 2008 “and therefore their terms were one-
sided, pro-vendor,” he said.  HCL’s strategy to offer lower rates to lure clients in the
U.S. and  Europe  helped the company post  record  sales and profit
in the year ended June 30. Customers may seek new  information
technology  suppliers for about 30 percent of the $45 billion of
orders up for renewal this year, offering business to vendors
who are open to changing contract terms, Nayar said.  HCL  beat  analysts’ estimates by 25 percent in the three
months to June 30, exceeding forecasts for the seventh straight
quarter. Larger rival  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  missed earnings predictions
in four of the past eight reporting periods, and on July 12 said
sales in the year ending March may rise to at least $7.34
billion, lower than the $7.55 billion forecast in April.  “Clients are becoming more cost conscious,” said Manoj Behera, an analyst at Equirus Securities Pvt. HCL’s global peers
are “generally price insensitive. This is something that is
driving sales for HCL at this point in time.”  Global spending on information technology may grow at a 3
percent pace in 2012 to $3.6 trillion this year, Gartner said in
a July 9 report. That’s slower than 7.9 percent last year as the
euro area crisis, a weaker U.S. recovery and a slowdown in  China 
curb economic growth, the researcher said.  ‘Crying Wolf’  Nayar said the company,  spun off  from computer maker HCL in
1997, won customers in 2008 after agreeing to slash its annual
charge for a Boston-based client by 62 percent to $25 million
after the customer’s revenue dropped to $700 million from $1.8
billion. Nayar didn’t identify the company.  “We saw it as an opportunity of getting into more doors
than ever before,” Nayar, 50, said. As customers change
vendors, “depending on where you’re sitting, you’re either
gaining from it, which is what’s happening with HCL, or you are
crying wolf and saying recession.”  The company has signed $2.5 billion of deals in the last
six months, he said. HCL has  gained  32 percent in the past year
compared with a 0.8 percent increase at Infosys. HCL, based in
the New Delhi suburb of Noida,  fell  0.4 percent to 544.4 rupees
at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai.  Earnings Margin  The company, that sold shares in an initial public offering
in 1999, had an earnings margin before interest and taxes of
16.5 percent, lower than the average of 19.5 percent margin
among the 10-company  BSE IT Index (BSET) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The measure for the year ended March 31 was 29 percent at
Infosys, the highest among  India ’s four largest software
exporters.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  reported a margin of
28 percent, data show.  “HCL’s volatile margin history makes us wary,” Abhiram Eleswarapu, a Mumbai-based analyst with BNP Paribas Securities
India Pvt. said in a July 26 note to clients. “HCL expects to
maintain an annual EBIT margin of 16.5 percent at current
foreign-exchange rates. However, its margins have historically
been volatile, making extrapolations risky.”  Eleswarapu  recommends  investors reduce their holdings in
HCL’s stock and has a hold rating for Infosys.  Cheaper Locations  To maintain margins HCL may propose billing the client on a
fixed-price rather than time-and-materials basis or moving work
to cheaper locations such as the  Philippines  from  Singapore , as
well as automating more processes, Nayar said.  HCL also plans to reevaluate its acquisition strategy to
boost growth and be “relevant in 2015,” Nayar said. The
company may purchase rivals that will help give it a new
technology platform, or expand its geographical presence.  In 2008, HCL outbid Infosys to buy Axon Group Plc, a U.K.
business management software provider by agreeing to pay 407
million pounds ($644 million). Nadar, the company’s founder, set
up Hindustan Computers Ltd. in 1976 and began selling micro-
computers two years later.  “If as an IT services company you’re not going to keep
yourself current and you believe that your business model or
your technology competence are going to continue to be relevant,
then you’re going to become obsolete,” Nayar said. “Your
perception of your invincibility is your biggest threat and your
biggest competition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  