-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Hovered Last Week Near Seven-Month Low
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-30T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-hovered-last-week-near-seven-month-low.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S. held
close to a seven-month low last week as Americans’ view of the
buying climate fell to the lowest level of the year.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was little changed at
minus 47.3 in the period ended Aug. 26, from the prior week’s
minus 47.4 reading that was the weakest since mid-January. The
gain halted a six-week decline that was the longest since 2008,
when the U.S. was in a recession.  Unemployment stuck above 8 percent may encourage consumers
to keep rebuilding savings rather than boost spending, which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy. Gasoline prices,
which are projected to be the highest on record for a Labor Day
holiday, are another source of discomfort for Americans.  “Strained household balance sheets, a soggy economy and a
sluggish labor market are the probable causes behind the sharply
negative view,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at
Bloomberg LP in  New York . “Based on the deterioration among
different demographic groups and the decline in economic
expectations, household spending is likely to remain on a sub 2
percent track for the remainder of this year.”  Consumer spending  grew at a 1.7 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, the weakest in a year, revised Commerce
Department data showed yesterday. The saving rate rose to 4
percent from 3.6 percent in the first three months of the year.
The world’s largest economy expanded at a 1.7 percent annual
rate, following a 2 percent gain in the first quarter.  Other reports today showed little improvement in the labor
market and limited household demand.  First-time claims  for
jobless benefits were unchanged at 374,000 last week, the Labor
Department said. The monthly average climbed to a six-week high.  July Spending  Consumer purchases climbed 0.4 percent in July, the first
gain in three months, Commerce Department figures showed. The
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
0.5 percent increase.  Stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower
for a third time in four days, on concern the global economy is
slowing. The  S&P 500  dropped 0.6 percent to 1,402.51 at 9:38
a.m. in New York.  Today’s Bloomberg comfort index showed 76 percent of survey
respondents last week said it was a bad time to buy needed
items, the worst reading since late January. The measure of the
buying climate slumped to minus 52.4 from minus 48.9.  The other two components of the comfort gauge showed some
improvement last week. The index of Americans’ views on the
current state of the  economy  rose to minus 76.8 from minus 77.3
the prior week, and a barometer of  personal finances  climbed to
minus 12.7 from minus 15.9.  Income Groups  Seven of eight income groups were more pessimistic last
week. Sentiment among those making more than $50,000 a year
worsened to a five-month low of minus 21.9. Households earning
at least $100,000 had the lowest confidence since January, with
the index falling to minus 13.  “Persistent unemployment is one challenge; another, the
price of gasoline,” according to a statement from  Gary Langer ,
president of New York-based Langer Research Associates, which
compiles the index for Bloomberg. Both are “strongly
correlated” with declines in comfort.  Gasoline prices jumped 47 cents a gallon since July 1 to
$3.80 as of Aug. 28, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest auto
organization. This year’s national average cost for Labor Day,
which falls on Sept. 3, may be “the highest ever for the
holiday,” according to an e-mail from  Michael Green , a
spokesman for AAA in Washington.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, will
offer holders of its credit and debit cards cheaper fuel to
provide relief from rising prices. The discounts, ranging from
15 cents to 10 cents a gallon, will be valid at any of its 1,026
locations that sell gasoline in 20 states, the Bentonville,
Arkansas-based company said yesterday. The program runs from
Aug. 31 to Dec. 24.  ‘Under Pressure’  “Our customers are under pressure from the economy,”
Chief Merchandising Officer Duncan Mac Naughton said on a
conference call. “They also talk about gas prices.”  Confidence declined among various other groups. It fell to
the lowest level since January for women and for full-time
workers, while it plunged to the worst reading since November
for college-educated Americans.  Movements in confidence may play a more prominent role as
the presidential election draws nearer. The index of sentiment
among Democrats was higher than that of Republicans for a record
23rd week. The comfort gauge for Republicans fell to minus 49.7,
the lowest since January, while it improved to minus 39.3 for
Democrats.  Presidential Election  The gauge for political independents, a key swing group in
this year’s presidential election, was minus 51.5 after an
eight-month low of minus 52.2.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  