-- Americans Spend More for First Time in Three Months: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-08-30T20:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/consumer-spending-in-u-s-climbs-for-first-time-in-three-months.html
Americans stepped up spending in
July for the first time in three months as an increase in
incomes helped make up for a jobless rate stuck above 8 percent.  Purchases increased 0.4 percent after being little changed
in June, Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .
Other reports today showed  consumer confidence  held close to a
seven-month low, and claims for  unemployment benefits  were
unchanged.  Stronger household spending is fueling sales at retailers
such as Gap Inc. and may set the stage for a pickup in economic
growth. At the same time, more expensive  gasoline  may prompt
shoppers to watch their wallets, while a slowing global economy
makes employers cautious about hiring.  “The consumer’s situation is slowly improving, but the job
growth isn’t there to support really big gains in future
spending,” said  Gus Faucher , a senior economist at PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh, who correctly
forecast the increases in purchases. “The quarter is getting
off to a decent start.”  U.S. stocks retreated, trimming the third straight monthly
advance for the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as
reports from  Europe  and  Asia  intensified concern the global
economy is cooling. The  S&P 500  fell 0.8 percent to 1,399.48 at
the close of trading in  New York .  Economic confidence in the 17-nation euro area fell more
than economists forecast in August as the region’s slump
deepened.  European Sentiment  An index of executive and consumer sentiment dropped to
86.1 from 87.9 in July, the European Commission in Brussels said
today. That’s the lowest since August 2009.  South Korea  reported that manufacturers’ confidence for
September stayed near the lowest level since the 2007-2009 world
credit crunch.  Japan ’s retail sales fell more than economists
forecast in July.  The median estimate of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 0.5 percent gain in U.S.  consumer spending .
Projections ranged from increases of 0.2 percent to 0.7 percent.  Incomes climbed 0.3 percent for a third month. Because
spending rose more than incomes, the saving rate fell to 4.2
percent from 4.3 percent in June, the highest level in a year.  An early indicator of consumer spending,  retail sales , rose
0.8 percent in July, the most in five months, Commerce
Department data showed Aug. 14. Receipts climbed in all 13 sales
categories, the first time that’s happened since 2005.  Gap, Macy’s  The gains in demand last month may have extended into
August. Gap and Macy’s Inc. posted same-store sales this month
that topped analysts’ estimates as shoppers took advantage of
back-to-school promotions.  Sales at Gap, the biggest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer,
climbed 9 percent, beating the average projection for a 5.5
percent gain from analysts surveyed by researcher Retail Metrics
Inc. Macy’s, the department-store chain, posted a 5.1 increase
in same-store sales, topping the 3.3 percent estimate.  Same-store sales for the more than 20 companies tracked by
Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics rose 2.7 percent,
beating the average estimate for a 1.8 percent gain.  “The back-to-school business has been really quite good,”
Ed Stack, chairman and chief executive officer of  Dick’s
Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS) , said during an Aug. 14 earnings call. The
Coraopolis, Pennsylvania-based retailer this month boosted its
forecast for full-year earnings. “We’ve been very pleased with
our business,” he said.  Purchasing Power  A jump in employment growth shored up household purchasing
power last month. Payrolls rose by 163,000 workers in July, the
most since February, according to Labor Department data. At the
same time, the jobless rate rose to 8.3 percent, the highest
level in five months. Unemployment has persisted above 8 percent
for more than three years.  Sustained consumer demand would boost the pace of economic
expansion in the U.S. Americans’ purchases increased at a 1.7
percent annual rate in the second quarter, the smallest advance
in a year. The world’s largest economy expanded at a revised 1.7
percent annual rate in the second quarter as well.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may use a speech
tomorrow in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , to discuss the central bank’s
assessment of the expansion. Policy makers have said they are
prepared to provide new stimulus “fairly soon” unless they’re
convinced the economy is poised to rebound, according to the
minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July 31-Aug. 1
meeting released last week.  Spending Forecast  Consumer spending will increase at a 2 percent rate in the
third quarter, according to the median forecast of 78 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg from Aug. 3 to Aug. 8.  Faster growth driven by household spending will probably
hinge on bigger job gains. Gasoline prices present an additional
obstacle. The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline
climbed 28 cents since July 30 to reach $3.80 on Aug. 28,
according to AAA, the nation’s largest auto club.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was little changed at
minus 47.3 in the period ended Aug. 26, from the prior week’s
minus 47.4 reading that was the weakest since mid-January. The
gain halted a six-week decline that was the longest since 2008,
when the U.S. was in a recession.  The index showed 76 percent of survey respondents last week
said it was a bad time to buy needed items, the worst reading
since late January. The measure of the buying climate slumped to
minus 52.4 from minus 48.9.  Jobless Claims  Jobless claims were little changed at 374,000 in the week
ended Aug. 25, matching the upwardly revised figure from the
prior week, the Labor Department reported today in Washington.
The  median  forecast of 50 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
called for 370,000. The four-week moving average, a less
volatile measure, climbed to a six-week high.  Companies will probably remain concerned about the
possibility that taxes will rise and  government spending  will be
cut unless lawmakers act by January. The debt crisis in Europe
and a slowdown in  China  may also prompt employers to keeping
payrolls lean.  Claims have “moved sideways most of the year,” said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at RBC Capital Markets LLC in New
York. “Hirings are what’s lacking at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  