-- New London Restaurants Jump 25%, Cost of Eating Out Rises
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-08-30T10:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/cool-blue-cocktails-cooler-welcome-at-shrimpy-s-london.html
The number of new restaurants in
 London  jumped by 25 percent from a year earlier to 134 in the
past 12 months. Closings were little changed at 74, indicating
demand is proving resilient during the economic slowdown.  The research for “Harden’s  London Restaurants  2013” shows
the average cost of dinner for one in establishments listed in
the guide advanced to 46.55 pounds ($73.75) from 45.01 pounds.  “The increase in new restaurants is very surprising in the
current economic climate,” Peter Harden, co-editor of the
guide, said today in a telephone interview. “It’s as if London
is operating in a bubble of some description, with different
economic rules from the rest of the country.”  Dinner by  Heston Blumenthal  led the survey of regular
restaurant-goers for their best meal of the year. The survey is
based on about 75,000 reports from 7,500 diners, Harden said.
The Ledbury came second and Le Gavroche third. Marcus Wareing at
the Berkeley dropped to fourth from first.  Chez Bruce held onto its top spot for London’s favorite
restaurant, followed by La Trompette and J Sheekey. Pollen
Street Social came fourth, the only new entry. The restaurant,
opened last year by chef Jason Atherton, was also highest for
best meal, coming in sixth place.  The Wolseley was named best for business for a sixth year,
followed by the Square and the Don. Clos Maggiore won best for
romance, while the Anchor & Hope won for bar or pub food.
Restaurant  Gordon Ramsay  dropped out of the Top 10 for best
meal. Among the chef’s venues, Petrus won the highest ratings.  “Harden’s London Restaurants 2013” is published today at
12.99 pounds. It is available from bookshops and at
 http://www.hardens.com/ .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on art,  Jason Harper 
on autos and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 