-- Crop Traders Extend Bull Run as Rain Comes Too Late: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-08-31T16:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/crop-traders-extend-bull-run-as-rain-comes-too-late-commodities.html
Corn and soybean traders extended
their longest bullish outlook in at least 11 months on
speculation rain in the U.S. will come too late to revive crops
after the worst drought in a half century.  Seventeen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said corn will
climb next week. A further six were bearish and four were
neutral. Twenty expect gains in soybeans, four saw a drop and
four predicted little change. The 19th straight bullish outlook
is the longest run for corn since September and for soybeans
since June 2011. Hedge funds’ bets on a rally in corn are the
most in 16 months and near the largest for soybeans since at
least 2006, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  The worst U.S. drought since 1956 and dry weather in
Eastern  Europe  and  Russia  drove corn to a record $8.49 a bushel
this month. Food prices tracked by the  United Nations  rose the
most since 2009 in July. Rain in the Midwest may be too late to
improve yields because farmers already started the corn harvest
and soybeans are reaching maturity. Credit Suisse Group AG said
Aug. 29 the rally will to continue for several more months.  “The crop needed these rains a month ago,” said
Christopher Gadd, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London.
“We expect to see prices of corn move closer to $9 a bushel.
The situation for soybeans looks far more difficult because
demand remains resilient at these levels.”  Crops Rally  Soybeans advanced 45 percent to $17.5275 on the Chicago
Board of Trade this year and set a record yesterday. Corn gained
23 percent to $7.9725, reaching an all-time high Aug. 10. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities added 4.4 percent
and the MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities rose 7.5
percent. Treasuries returned 2.3 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index shows.  Areas of central  Illinois  and  Indiana  had as much as 3
inches of rain in the past two weeks, twice the normal amount,
National Weather Service data show. Some Midwest regions
received less than half of normal rainfall in the past 90 days.
Tropical Storm Isaac may bring more than 4 inches of rain to
areas of Illinois,  Missouri  and Indiana in the next five days,
with smaller amounts stretching from southeast  Iowa  to  Ohio ,
according to the service.  Corn production will drop 13 percent to 10.779 billion
bushels this year, the lowest since 2006, and the soybean crop
may be 12 percent lower at 2.692 billion bushels, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said Aug. 10. The agency updates its
forecasts Sept. 12.  China Sales  The USDA announced daily export sales of soybeans to  China 
exceeding 100,000 metric tons twice in the past two weeks. In
the six weeks through Aug. 23, U.S. exporters sold 3.719 million
tons for delivery in the current and upcoming marketing years,
12 percent more than in the same period a year earlier, USDA
data show. Corn sales totaled 1.877 million tons, 49 percent
less than a year earlier.  Costlier crops may curb demand from biofuel producers. U.S.
ethanol output slid 11 percent since June 8 and in the week
through July 20 reached the lowest level since the Energy
Department began tracking weekly data in 2010. Producers are
losing about 36 cents on each gallon of ethanol, based on fuel
and corn contracts for September, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. More U.S. corn went to ethanol refineries than into
livestock feed in 2010-11 for the first time ever.  Cattle Slaughter  The jump in feed prices may spur livestock farmers to
slaughter more animals. The domestic beef herd across ranches,
feedlots and dairies dropped on July 1 to the smallest since at
least 1973, USDA data show. Cattle spend 12 to 18 months eating
grass before going to feedlots, where they consume mostly corn
for five months until they are fat enough for slaughter.  The U.S. corn harvest is proceeding at the fastest pace
ever because farmers planted early and the drought accelerated
crop maturity, USDA data show. About 6 percent of corn was
harvested as of Aug. 26, compared with none a year earlier.
About 8 percent of soybean plants were dropping leaves, a sign
of maturity, according to the USDA.  In other commodities, four of 10 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg expect raw sugar to gain next week and the
same amount were bearish. The commodity slipped 15 percent this
year to 19.8 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  Eleven people surveyed said copper will rise next week and
eight predicted a drop, while eight were neutral. The metal for
delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s benchmark
contract, dropped 0.1 percent to $7,592 a ton this year.  Comex Bourse  Twelve of 31 traders and analysts surveyed said gold would
rise next week, 11 were bearish and eight were neutral. Futures
on the Comex exchange in New York added 7.4 percent since the
start of January to $1,682.90 an ounce.  Holdings in exchange-traded products backed by the metal
jumped to a record 2,460.5 tons by Aug. 29, overtaking France
and  Italy  in the past two weeks to become the world’s third-
largest hoard when compared with national reserves, data
compiled by Bloomberg and the International Monetary Fund show.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told central
bankers and economists meeting in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming  today,
that more bond purchases are an option as central bankers weigh
further steps to boost the economy. Fed policy makers next meet
Sept. 12-13.  The S&P GSCI gauge of raw materials entered a  bull market 
on Aug. 21, climbing more than 20 percent from this year’s
lowest close on June 21.  “This summer’s commodity rally is most likely over unless
substantial policy stimulus is launched in the U.S., Europe or
China,” said Filip Petersson, an analyst at SEB AB in
 Stockholm . “Now is the time to be long gold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  