-- CSX and Microsoft Woo Republicans With Baseball, Trains
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-08-30T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/csx-and-microsoft-woo-republicans-with-baseball-trains.html
With pitched baseballs and idled
rail cars, companies such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  CSX Corp. (CSX)  and  AT&T
Inc. (T)  this week put their names, representatives and issues in
front of the elected officials, senior aides and delegates
attending the Republican National Convention in Tampa, Florida.  And Microsoft and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  helped raise
$20,000 for area youth programs as delegates and lobbyists hit,
threw and fielded baseballs in the domed stadium where the Tampa
Bay Rays compete in the American League.  In addition to nominating former Massachusetts Governor
Mitt Romney for president, the quadrennial gathering has offered
a chance for company representatives and lobbyists to gain
unusual access to public officials in an array of settings,
ranging from recreational to private hotel and restaurant spots.  “It’s almost like a flea market for political favors with
all kinds of politicians there, all kinds of lobbyists and all
kinds of special interests,” said  Bill Allison , editorial
director of the Sunlight Foundation, a Washington-based watchdog
group that’s tracking the interaction between lobbyists and
delegates. “You only have once every four years that many
people with power and that many people who want to use that
power.”  When the Republican convention closes tonight, the same
traveling band of trade groups and corporate representatives
will regroup next week in Charlotte,  North Carolina , where the
Democrats will nominate President Barack Obama for re-election.  Outfitted Locomotives  Representative Mary Bono Mack, a California Republican,
said it’s normal for people to get together at a convention.
“When you have 50,000 Republicans together, it’s a great place
to capitalize on that enthusiasm and interest,” she said.  CSX, headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, used two
classic locomotives outfitted in the company’s blue-and-yellow
color scheme to create a rail village for hosting receptions for
convention delegates -- including elected officials who oversee
the railroad industry.  A green carpeted platform provides access to air
conditioned cars filled with food and drink -- including CSX-
branded bottle water. One of the cars had a large rear platform
that was used to accommodate President  Franklin Delano Roosevelt ’s wheelchair; the vehicle later served as part of the
funeral train for slain Senator Robert F. Kennedy, who was shot
during the 1968 Democratic presidential primary.  ‘Political Dialogue’  CSX, the largest eastern U.S. railroad, spent $1.9 million
to lobby the federal government in the first six months of 2012
on issues such as renewing funding for surface transportation,
 Amtrak , and environmental regulations.  “It’s important to be part of the political dialogue,”
said Gary Sease, a company spokesman. “This is an opportunity
to talk about the benefits of rail with the people who will
determine our future.” It’s also a chance to tout its home
state, Sease said. “Tampa is an important business place for
us,” he said. “We really wanted to help.”  In addition to setting up the rail village, CSX joined
other railroads, the  construction  industry, and the airline and
bus trade associations to hold a reception for members of the
House and Senate committees that oversee the transportation
industry.  “Co-sponsoring an event like this provides us with an
excellent opportunity to explain the challenges facing
construction employers across the country and to help educate
convention delegates, elected officials and candidates about the
need for putting in place common-sense, pro-growth tax,
regulatory and infrastructure measures,” said  Brian Turmail , a
spokesman for Arlington, Virginia-based Associated General
Contractors of America, one of the trade association sponsors.  Play Ball  Over at Tropicana Field in  St. Petersburg  yesterday, signs
on the floor and electronic logos on the scoreboard advertised
the companies and trade groups that paid as much as $50,000 to
sponsor a day at the ballpark, a charitable event held at the
conventions since 1996 when the home teams are out of town.  Delegates, guests and lobbyists donned batting helmets and
grabbed bats as every swing they made was displayed on the giant
video screen in right field. Then they put on mitts and
attempted to field other players’ hits. Former major league
players Bernie Carbo, Ron LeFlore and Oscar Gamble signed
autographs.  Touting “invited guests” from the House Energy and
Commerce and Senate Commerce committees, the event’s sponsors
included telephone and wireless providers Monroe, Louisiana-
based  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL)  and New York-based Verizon, and the trade
group for wireless companies.  Lawmaker Mingling  Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican who
chairs the House energy and power subcommittee, mingled with the
crowd in between attendees’ swings in the cages and their
catches in the outfield.  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  of  St. Louis  and
 Pepper Pike , Ohio-based Murray Energy Corp, were listed as event
co-sponsors as well.  So too was Microsoft, which spent $3.8 million to lobby on
issues such as immigration, cybersecurity and online piracy.
“We got involved because it benefits youth charities involved
in the community, plus, it’s a fun event,” said Christina
Pearson, a spokeswoman for the Redmond, Washington-based
company.  Lobbyists who are raising money for Romney got their own
chance to brush shoulders with public officials and key aides.  Virginia Governor  Bob McDonnell  and  Arizona  Governor Jan Brewer were among the politicians who were scheduled to join
Romney’s top fundraisers at the convention, according to an
agenda circulating on the Internet and confirmed by
participants.  Logo T-Shirts  The logo of the largest U.S. phone company, AT&T, was
printed on shirts worn by convention volunteers and bags carried
by delegates from Texas, where U.S. Representative  Joe Barton  is
a senior member of Energy and Commerce Committee. AT&T also is
hosting state delegations daily at a nearby restaurant. Claudia Jones, a company spokeswoman, did not return phone calls.  AT&T spent $10.5 million to lobby during the first six
months of 2012, second only to  General Electric Co. (GE)  among
corporations, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based research group. Dallas-based AT&T last year
failed to win government approval to buy T-Mobile USA Inc.  “This is the wining and dining that is so effective when
it comes to special interests,” said  Craig Holman  of  Public
Citizen , a Washington-based advocacy group that favors stricter
limits on lobbying. “I would call it the reciprocity principle:
You give and you’ll receive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  