-- Czech Koruna Weakens as Necas Risks Budget Defeat: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-08-30T13:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/czech-koruna-weakens-as-necas-risks-budget-defeat-prague-mover.html
The koruna weakened for a second day
on concern Prime Minister Petr Necas will struggle to secure
enough votes in parliament to pass a bill needed to reduce the
 budget deficit  and on signs the global economy is slowing.  The Czech currency slid 0.6 percent, the most in more than
a week, to 24.923 per euro by 2:45 p.m. in Prague. The koruna
reached the strongest level in four months two days ago.  Necas yesterday urged lawmakers to back his plan to raise
taxes, saying his administration would have no reason to stay in
power if unable to meet its deficit-cutting target. After losing
a majority in the lower house in April, the premier must now
secure enough support to overturn a Senate rejection of the bill
intended to cut the deficit below the European Union’s limit of
3 percent of gross domestic product next year. The vote will
probably take place after parliament reconvenes on Sept. 4.  “The government coalition’s fragile majority, which
depends on the votes of dissenters during parliamentary votes,
constitutes a latent political risk for the koruna,” Carolin Hecht, a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt ,
wrote in a report to clients today. “Should the vote in
parliament fail, we might see an excursion towards 25.20.”  Stocks fell worldwide and most emerging-market currencies
slid as economic data from  Germany ,  Japan  and  South Korea  added
to concern the global economic growth is slowing. Exports
account for about 75 percent of the Czech economy, with Germany
the biggest buyer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The koruna is still 1.7 percent stronger versus the euro
since the end of July, making it the second-best performer among
major emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
government’s funding costs fell to an all-time low for the fifth
consecutive bond auction yesterday as the currency’s
appreciation this month fueled speculation the central bank will
cut  interest rates .  Czech bonds were little changed, with the five-year yield
at 1.16 percent, within one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, of all-time low reached two days ago, generic indexes
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  