-- Distressed Home Prices Jump With Inventory Shrinking
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-08-30T13:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/distressed-home-prices-jump-with-inventory-shrinking-mortgages.html
Demand for distressed properties is
driving up prices for the first time in two years as investors
from  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  to Colony Capital LLC chase shrinking
inventory.  The average sales price on homes in the process of
foreclosure or already owned by banks rose 7 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the biggest annual increase
since 2006,  RealtyTrac Inc.  reported today. The number of those
deals dropped 22 percent, the most since 2010, the  Irvine ,
California-based data provider said in a statement.  “There’s virtually no supply in a lot of markets right
now,” Michael Krein, president of the National REO Brokers
Association said in a telephone interview. “What we’re finding
nationally is that 50 percent of all purchasers are investors
because they can outbid the owner occupant buyers. Investors are
bidding up anywhere from 5 to 25 percent over the list prices.”  Investors are taking advantage of  home prices  that are
about 31 percent below the 2006 peak and growing demand for
 rentals  from people with damaged credit, limited savings or lack
of confidence in owning a house. Firms including Blackstone,
Colony and  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK)  plan to spend about $8
billion buying single-family homes to rent, according to company
statements and interviews.  Investment in rentals, most of which is coming from small
groups rather than Wall Street funds, is filling vacant homes
and improving rundown properties while spurring demand for
construction jobs, said Tom Shapiro, chairman of GTIS Partners,
a New York-based investment fund that plans to spend $1 billion
in the next five years on rental housing.  Silver Bullet  “The housing market is turning around,” Shapiro said.
“Maybe the silver bullet for housing is the single-family-for-
rent, because it’s underpinning the market. It’s sopping up the
excess.”  Government-controlled mortgage guarantors  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  have been slow to unload foreclosed homes, also
known as real estate owned or REOs, through bulk sales. That has
limited the number of properties available for private-equity
firms,  hedge funds  and pension systems to purchase.  Krein said he receives about 20 phone calls a week from
large investors and hedge funds interested in Nevada properties.  “There’s almost no product left to buy right now,” he
said. “A couple of years ago you might have had four or five
major players that would bid on non-performing loans and REO
pools. Now there are probably 50 or 60 that can bid on these.”  Bank Settlement  Compounding the shortage is fewer bank-owned homes coming
to market as lenders comply with terms of a $25 billion February
settlement with state and federal regulators to resolve
allegations with the five-largest home lenders over faulty
practices. In the first quarter,  foreclosure filings  in the U.S.
fell to the lowest level since 2007, RealtyTrac said in April.  Banks increasingly approve transactions for less than the
amount owed on the mortgage, known as a short sale, or modify
loans for borrowers struggling to keep up payments, including by
reducing the principle owed.  The gap between short sale prices and prices obtained by
banks selling seized properties narrowed to the smallest in
almost five years, RealtyTrac said today.  “The shift we’ve been seeing in the last few quarters that
continued in the second quarter is short sales are catching up
with bank-owned sales,” said  Daren Blomquist , a RealtyTrac
spokesman.  Servicer Progress  The five largest U.S. mortgage servicers say they have
provided about $10.6 billion in relief to borrowers under terms
of the settlement, according to a court-appointed monitor.  Most of that aid, $8.7 billion, came in the form of short
sales, the Office of Mortgage Settlement Oversight said
yesterday in a progress report on implementation of the accord.
Lenders including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
also forgave $749.4 million in mortgage debt, according to the
report.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-largest U.S. lender by
assets, had $5.8 billion in short sales completed as of Aug. 21,
$596 million in first-lien loan modifications finished and $1.7
billion in forgiveness on home-equity lines of credit, according
to  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based company.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which oversees Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac, last week adjusted its guidelines for short
sales to expedite the process and permit the transactions for
borrowers who are up to date on mortgage payments if they
demonstrate a “hardship,” according to an Aug. 21 statement.
The guidelines take effect on Nov. 1.  Higher Price  Homes in default or scheduled for auction, often sold
through short sales, went for an average price of $185,062 in
the second quarter, a 5 percent increase from the previous three
months and 1 percent decline from a year earlier, according to
RealtyTrac.  “We had a very high inventory of short sales over the last
18 months,” said Curtis Darragh, a principal broker at
Poughkeepsie, New York-based Legacy Land & Homes LLC. “There
are fewer foreclosures on the market than there were and there’s
a lot more competition.”  In the past month, one or two foreclosed properties with
prices below the market value have come for sale and each saw
five or more offers, Darragh said.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home prices in 20 U.S. cities
 rose  0.5 percent in June, the first year-over-year increase
since a tax credit boosted sales in 2010, according to an Aug.
28 report.  Phoenix Jump  Thirteen of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-
year gain, led by a 14 percent increase in Phoenix. Atlanta had
the biggest year-over-year drop, with prices falling 12 percent.  Investor demand for foreclosed homes in Phoenix and  Los
Angeles  has driven up prices to the point that it’s no longer
economical to buy them as rentals, said Shapiro of GTIS
Partners. In Atlanta, there are still a lot of opportunities, he
said, adding that he finished a home shopping visit to the
Georgia city yesterday.  A typical deal there involves buying a
house for $72,000, about half the sale price of 10 years ago,
and renting the property for $1,250, he said.  “We’ll buy 50 houses in Atlanta this month,” he said.
“We’re taking the sniper approach, picking off individual
houses in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net 
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  