-- Yen Touches Week-High as Spain Delay Spurs Haven Bid
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-08-31T08:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/dollar-yen-gain-as-moody-s-spain-review-fuels-haven-bid.html
The yen strengthened as speculation
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will refrain from
signaling additional stimulus when he speaks today spurred
demand for the safest assets.  Japan’s currency climbed for a third day versus the euro
after Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said his nation won’t
seek sovereign aid until European leaders make the conditions
clear. The euro weakened as Moody’s Investors Service said its
review of  Spain ’s government debt rating will extend through
September and reiterated the risk of a possible downgrade.  “The expectations of Bernanke announcing more stimulus
today are fading,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “That
creates a risk-off sentiment and that supports the yen. There’s
also the news coming out of Spain which is not good.”  The yen gained 0.2 percent to 78.48 per dollar at 9:01 a.m.
London time after appreciating to 78.40, the strongest since
Aug. 23.  Japan ’s currency advanced 0.1 percent to 98.23 per
euro.  Europe ’s shared currency was little changed at $1.2517.  Bernanke will deliver his annual speech on monetary policy
at the central bank’s symposium in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , at 10
a.m.  New York  time today. His address in 2010 preceded a second
round of quantitative easing to support growth.  ‘Resilient’ Yen  “I don’t think Bernanke will make any commitment to
specific policy in Jackson Hole,” said Ken Takahashi, assistant
vice president of global market in New York at Sumitomo Mitsui
Trust Bank Ltd. The yen is “resilient as it’s a risk-off
market.”  Rajoy spoke about a second bailout after meeting with
French President  Francois Hollande  in  Madrid  yesterday. Spain is
considering pumping its own money into  Bankia SA (BKIA)  to re-
capitalize the country’s biggest nationalized lender rather than
use the emergency portion of a 100 billion-euro bailout from the
European Union, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Moody’s review of Spain’s credit score, which started on
June 13, will probably continue through next month, the New York
based ratings firm said in a statement yesterday. The company
reduced Spain to its lowest investment grade level on June 13,
cutting it three steps to Baa3 from A3.  “The Baa3 long term debt rating of the Spanish government
remains on review for possible downgrade,” Moody’s said in the
statement. The review is dependent on the scope of the nation’s
bank recapitalization, support available under the European
Stability Mechanism and potential changes to the region’s
existing crisis-management framework, Moody’s said.  Weekly Move  The yen has strengthened 0.6 percent this week, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The euro and the dollar both
strengthened 0.3 percent.  The yen tends to strengthen during periods of financial
turmoil because Japan’s current-account surplus means it isn’t
reliant on foreign capital. The dollar benefits because it is
the world’s reserve currency.  Japan’s currency held its weekly gain even after the
statistics bureau said  consumer prices excluding fresh food  fell
0.3 percent in July from a year earlier. That compares with a 1
percent inflation goal set by the  Bank of Japan (8301)  in February.
Industrial production unexpectedly declined in the same period,
the Trade Ministry said.  Factory Orders  U.S. factory  orders  climbed 2 percent last month after a
0.5 percent drop in June, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before the Commerce Department report today. That would be the
most since December. A separate survey predicted a final reading
for the  Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  confidence index
will confirm the gauge rose this month to the highest since May.  The U.S. central bank has a tough decision on whether to
add further stimulus to promote a stronger economic recovery,
according to Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart , who votes on
monetary policy this year.  “It is a close call, really,” Lockhart said yesterday in
a CNBC interview from  Jackson Hole . “I am not overly concerned
with the longer-term costs of more action, but at the same time
I see limited benefit from more action.”  Many Fed policy makers said additional stimulus would
probably be needed soon unless the economy shows signs of a
durable pickup, according to minutes of their most recent
meeting released on Aug. 22. Officials next meet on Sept. 12-13.  The Fed has already purchased $2.3 trillion of assets in
two rounds of the stimulus known as quantitative easing.  “The dollar will probably rise if Bernanke dashes
expectations of imminent QE3 measures,” Ralf Umlauf, a research
analyst at Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in Frankfurt, wrote in
an e-mailed note to clients today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  