-- China’s Growing Economic Crisis
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-08-30T21:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/don-t-look-to-china-for-economic-growth.html
Policy makers around the world have
long envied  China ’s ability to get big things done. A huge 4
trillion-yuan ($630 billion) stimulus plan as the global economy
cratered in 2008? No problem. Marshaling banks to lend trillions
more? Check. Enacting sweeping regulatory changes at a moment’s
notice? You bet.  Ahhh, the good old days. Now, a once-in-a-decade leadership
shift is getting in the way of the stimulus-happy policies to
which investors became accustomed. The nimbleness that helped
China steer around the worst of the global crisis is confronting
political paralysis of the kind more often seen in  Japan ,  Europe 
and the U.S. The upshot is that China’s 7.6 percent growth rate
may fall more in the next 12 months than anyone expects.  It’s not that  Wen Jiabao  doesn’t get the extent to which
the supposedly unstoppable China has hit a wall. Just as in
2009, the premier is visiting key industrial cities such as
Guangdong and Zhejiang. Wen is facing dour looks from
manufacturers surrounded by mounting piles of unsold goods, a
rare experience for the main engine of China’s economic rise.  Factory warehouses are cluttered with excess stock, store
shelves are filled beyond  capacity , and dealerships are choked
with cars that used to speed from showroom to road. And yet
Wen’s team in Beijing has been eerily silent about how it plans
to revive things. That may be because the short answer is, it
doesn’t.  Obvious Ways  One problem is that China has run out of obvious ways to
kick-start its $7.3 trillion economy. It was easy in 2008: Pump
tens of billions of dollars into a sweeping stimulus project and
10 percent growth followed. China’s success gave markets the
impression that its leaders could wave some magic wand and
growth would be the result.  Magic is in short supply now. Local governments are cash-
strapped and awash in debts that could turn bad. The  euro zone 
seems locked into permanent-crisis mode while the U.S. is bogged
down with debt, economic stagnation and political paralysis.
China proved it can live for a few years without U.S. and
European customers, but not forever.  The bigger topic is politics amid this year’s leadership
shift. Instead of tackling the issues of growth and economic
reform, officials are punting on big decisions. As such, we are
now officially living in the “G-Zero” era that  Ian Bremmer ,
the president of Eurasia Group in  New York , described in his new
book “Every Nation for Itself.”  At one time the weaker links within the Group of Seven
nations were supported by the others. Those days are gone and
now that China is sputtering, the G-Zero reality is upon us and
manifesting itself in disturbing ways.  Take  Asia ’s surge of nationalism. Political scientists have
loads of theories about why China, Japan and  South Korea  are
suddenly at loggerheads: bad blood over World War II, energy
needs, designs on controlling the Asian seas, the power vacuum
left as the U.S. focused on two intractable wars. One theory
that deserves more attention is how these countries deflect the
blame for troubles at home.  In Japan, Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  is spectacularly
unpopular after raising taxes and restarting nuclear reactors
that were shuttered following last year’s earthquake. Playing up
territorial disputes allows him to change the subject and throw
a bone to Japan’s influential right-wingers. In  Seoul , President
 Lee Myung Bak  has been embarrassed by corruption charges against
his family. Fanning popular anger about South Korea’s status in
Asia has shifted the national dialog.  The same strategy prevails in China. Unwelcome headlines
focus on the widening gap between rich and poor, the Bo Xilai
scandal, and charges that China fudges economic and pollution
statistics. Turning the public’s attention to China’s former
colonizers has been a political winner.  Asia’s Loss  The loser in all this is economic cooperation in  Asia. (MXAP)  Also
on the losing side is vital economic change in China. Over the
last decade, Wen and President  Hu Jintao  produced rapid
expansion, but few of the structural reforms China needs for
balanced growth in the decades ahead. State-owned enterprises
and banks are more dominant than ever, producing huge
misallocations of resources and priorities. Meanwhile, no effort
has been made to build a market that promotes domestic
consumption.  Rather than retool the economy, China is content to rely
on the old fast-growth, export-driven model. The trouble is, the
Wen-Hu era lulled markets into counting on the constant
injections of stimulus spending that gave China a unique, yet
unsustainable, foundation. If China isn’t a gigantic bubble
economy, it’s one made up of many smaller bubbles -- property,
stocks, exports. These are the result of spending-induced growth
and imbalances that might breed trouble down the road, including
inflation and a bad-loan crisis.  Traders looking for another dose of stimulus are expressing
their disappointment that none seems forthcoming. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  is down 13 percent so far this quarter. Those
declines may accelerate as China’s leadership transition
distracts lame-duck officials from giving markets their fix. The
same goes for a world economy more devoid of growth engines than
ever.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Hong Kong  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  