-- DuPont Wins Bar on Kolon Selling Body-Armor Fiber
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-08-31T04:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/dupont-wins-bar-on-kolon-selling-body-armor-fiber.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the inventor of Kevlar,
won a ruling barring Kolon Industries Inc.’s sales of a
competing version of the product used in protective clothing for
police and the military for the next 20 years.  U.S. District Judge Robert Payne in Richmond,  Virginia ,
yesterday barred Kolon from selling products in the U.S. made
with its para-aramid fiber after a jury found last year that the
South Korean manufacturer stole  trade secrets  relating to the
Kevlar fiber and should pay more than $919 million in damages.  “The judge’s order sends a clear message to Kolon and
others that they cannot benefit from the theft of our trade
secrets,” Thomas Powell, a DuPont spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  DuPont, based in Wilmington,  Delaware , is expanding  Kevlar 
production to meet rising demand for armor and lightweight
materials that reduce energy use. The company opened a $500
million plant in  South Carolina  last year to boost output of the
material for use in products such as tires, auto parts and
fiber-optic cables.  “Kolon is disappointed with the court’s rulings and does
not believe an injunction, of any scope, is warranted either
legally or factually,” Jeff Randall, a lawyer for the company,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Kolon will immediately file a
motion to stay the order.”  $1.5 Billion Sales  Kevlar, together with Nomex, a heat-resistant fiber used in
firefighting gear, accounted for about $1.5 billion of DuPont’s
$38 billion in sales last year, according to the company.  Jurors in federal court in Richmond found in September 2011
that Gyeonggi-based Kolon and its U.S. unit wrongfully obtained
proprietary information about Kevlar by hiring some former
DuPont engineers and marketers. Kolon sells the Heracron line of
fibers as a competitor to Kevlar.  DuPont sued Kolon in February 2009 alleging it stole
confidential Kevlar data. DuPont began selling the bullet-
resistant fiber in 1965 and it’s used in  body armor , military
helmets, ropes, cables and tires. Kolon began making its own
version of the para-aramid fiber in 2005.  Jurors found Kolon got access to Kevlar secrets by hiring
Michael Mitcher, a former DuPont engineer who also had served as
a Kevlar marketing executive.  In his order, Payne note that jurors concluded Kolon
executives “willfully and maliciously misappropriated” Kevlar
secrets and the company engaged in “unlawful conduct.”  As a result, Kolon is barred for a period of 20 years from
“manufacturing, using, marketing, promoting, selling,
distributing, offering for sale or soliciting customers for any
para-aramid product,” the judge said.  The case is E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. v.  Kolon
Industries Inc. (120110) , 09-cv-00058, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  