-- Tech Companies Lead Monthly Slump on Slowdown: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-30T21:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/tech-companies-lead-monthly-slump-on-slowdown-israel-overnight.html
Israeli stocks traded in New York
fell, sending the benchmark index on track to its first monthly
retreat since May, as the global slowdown propelled  Nice Systems
Ltd. (NICE)  and  Ceragon Networks Ltd. (CRNT)  to cut their outlooks.  The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most traded
Israeli companies in the U.S. slumped 0.8 percent to 83.35
yesterday, extending its decline this month to 1.6 percent. Nice
Systems, a maker of analytical telecommunications software, is
posting the biggest monthly decline in two years after cutting
its profit and revenue forecasts. Ceragon, a maker of wireless
networks, slumped 16 percent in August, the most in nine months.  Israeli companies are getting hit by a faltering economic
recovery in the U.S. and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe.
About 40 percent of the nation’s gross domestic product comes
from exports, with Europe and the U.S. accounting for more than
 half  of the trade. Nice sent more than 60 percent of its
products to the U.S., while Ceragon received about 25 percent of
its revenue from customers in Europe and the U.S.  “A lot of these technology companies had lowered their
outlook and that has obviously impacted investor sentiment,”
 Daniel Meron , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said by phone
yesterday from Tel Aviv. “It has more to do with the economic
environment. Although some of these companies have their own
dynamics, it all starts and ends with the economy.”  Israel ’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25) , which was little changed at 1,120.58
yesterday, climbed 1.3 percent in August, a second month of
gains. The measure has gained 3.2 percent this year,
outperforming the Bloomberg Israel-US Index’s 2.6 percent gain.  Reduced Sales Forecast  Europe’s economy will probably contract 0.2 percent in
2012, following an expansion of 1.5 percent in 2011 and 2.2
percent in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  More Americans than forecast  filed applications  for
 unemployment benefits  last week, a sign that progress in the
labor market is faltering amid a slowing economy, according to a
Labor Department report yesterday in  Washington .  Nice Systems, based in Ra’Anana, Israel, reduced its 2012
sales forecast on Aug. 1 to a range of $890 million to $910
million from a previous estimate of as much as $950 million.  The macroeconomic environment is resulting in longer sales
cycles and slower-than-expected growth, Nice’s Chief Executive
Officer Zeevi Bregman said on a call with investors that day.
Deals are taking longer to close because the “spending
environment is deteriorating,” Bregman said.  ‘Slowing Business’  The company’s shares fell 0.9 percent in New York yesterday
to $31.19, extending its August decline to 13 percent. The  last
time  it lost more in a month was in June 2010, when the stock
slumped 14.5 percent. Its  Tel Aviv  shares lost 11 percent in
August to 126 shekels, or the equivalent of $31.22.  Ceragon  slid  0.6 percent to $6.87 yesterday, pushing its
monthly drop to 16 percent, the most since November. Its Tel
Aviv shares declined 14 percent to 28.2 shekels, or $6.99.  “We all see what’s happening with the economy and this is
slowing business down in Europe and also to a lesser extent in
the U.S.,” Yoel Knoll, head of  investor relations  at Ceragon,
said in a conference organized in  Boston  by Oppenheimer & Co. on
Aug. 15. “These are, I would say, the high-margin markets,
where you can sell your system for a better cost. So even a few
percentage points has an impact on revenue.”  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
stock market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
China. The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  