-- Ecopetrol Cuts 2012 Output Target on Rebel Attacks
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-08-30T20:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/ecopetrol-cuts-2012-output-target-on-rebel-attacks.html
Colombian rebels have more than
tripled attacks this year on state-run  Ecopetrol SA (EC) ’s southern
pipeline as part of a strategy targeting energy infrastructure
in the fifth decade of armed conflict, a police official said.  Saboteurs blasted the Transandino oil pipeline 37 times so
far this year, including last weekend, compared with 10
incidents in all of 2011, said the official, who refused to be
identified because of government policy. Blasts caused a fire
and spill earlier this month on the pipeline, which carries
crude 307 kilometers (191 miles) over mountains to the port of
Tumaco.  Ecopetrol, the  best-performing  major  oil company  this year,
trimmed its annual production forecast in July as assaults
forced temporary pipeline shutdowns. Rebels are targeting
installations in remote areas as the government counts on oil
revenue to boost income that helps fund the military.  “Rebels are focusing attacks there because it’s a key part
of the economy,” said Omar Escorcia, a Medellin, Colombia-based
analyst for brokerage Asesores en Valores SA. “It generates
instability.”  Rebels also have set explosives along Ecopetrol’s Cano
Limon-Covenas pipeline in eastern  Colombia  and attacked
transmission lines, knocking out power this month to a swathe of
the western region. The nation is  South America ’s third-largest
crude supplier.  The Transandino pipeline carries crude for Ecopetrol and
Calgary-based  Gran Tierra Energy Inc. (GTE) , which said in July that
sabotage cut its output. Gran Tierra Chief Executive Officer
Dana Coffield was unavailable to comment today because he’s
traveling, according to his secretary.  Production Goal  The government and armed forces are working to protect the
nation’s oil industry, Bogota-based Ecopetrol said in an e-
mailed statement today. Security issues have affected but not
“put at risk” Ecopetrol’s operations, it said.  The assaults pose a risk to Ecopetrol’s target to produce
an average of 780,000 barrels a day of oil this year, Escorcia
said. Ecopetrol, Colombia’s largest oil supplier, cut its
production goal from 800,000 barrels a day in July, the same
month rebels killed five oil workers at a company well in
southern Colombia.  The Revolutionary Armed Forces, or FARC, may be using the
attacks to strengthen their negotiating position with President
 Juan Manuel Santos , said Daniel Velandia, head of research at
Correval SA in Bogota.  “There is a perception that security has deteriorated,”
Velandia said. Santos said this week his government has held
“exploratory talks” to end the armed conflict.  Ecopetrol Returns  Ecopetrol shares have returned 41 percent in U.S. dollar
terms this year, the best performance among global producers
with a market value of more than $50 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s American depositary receipts, each worth 20
ordinary shares, slipped 0.3 percent to $57.69 at the close in
 New York . Gran Tierra  fell  0.9 percent to C$4.36 in Toronto.  Attacks on pipelines, energy towers, roads and bridges
jumped last year to 196 incidents from 113 a year earlier, the
first gain since 2008, according to  government figures . Assaults
have fallen from 917 in 2002 as the military increased strikes
against the FARC.  Venezuela and  Brazil  are South America’s largest crude
suppliers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  