-- Edwin Johnson, ‘Godfather’ of 401(k) Retirement Plan, Dies at 82
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-08-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/edwin-johnson-godfather-of-401-k-retirement-plan-dies-at-82.html
Edwin T. Johnson, who led the
employee-benefits consulting firm often credited with creating
the first 401(k) plan, the workplace-based savings program that
today accounts for $3.4 trillion in retirement savings, has
died. He was 82.  He died on Aug. 23 at his home in Newtown,  Pennsylvania ,
according to a  death notice  from Swartz/Givnish Funeral Home in
Newtown. The cause was prostate cancer, which he battled for 22
years.  Johnson was founder and chief executive officer of the
Johnson Cos., a benefits consulting firm in Newtown that played
a key, early role in refashioning retirement savings in the
1980s when defined-benefit pension plans declined in popularity.
While an employee of his, Ted Benna, became known as the father
of the 401(k), Johnson “was its godfather,” the trade
publication Pensions & Investments wrote in a 2001 profile.  “Ed was an inspirational, dynamic leader,” Benna said
yesterday in an interview.  He was also “a hell of a promoter and salesman,” his son
Tom said in an interview. Describing the partnership between his
father and Benna that led to their breakthrough -- a tax-
deferred retirement account funded by an employee’s deferred
salary contribution and an employer match -- he said, “It was a
very, very special combination.”  The Johnson firm’s work on its pioneering plan started with
a request from the Cheltenham National Bank in Philadelphia
about how it could do away with end-of-year cash bonuses while
still competing for top executive talent.  ‘Aha’ Moment  Benna, who was then an executive vice president at Johnson
Cos., had what he called an “aha” moment while digging into
section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, which had been
added in 1978. That portion, covering deferred pension, profit-
sharing and stock bonus plans, had taken effect at the start of
1980. His notion was an individual investment account, offered
to all employees, that would combine a portion of their
compensation with an employer contribution on a tax-deferred
basis.  Johnson helped Benna pitch the idea to U.S. Treasury
Department regulators, who were writing the rules that would put
the 1978 tax-code changes in effect. Johnson had political
connections, having served as co-chairman of Drew Lewis’s 1974
campaign for governor of Pennsylvania. Though Lewis had lost
that race, he had just started working in January 1981 as
transportation secretary under President  Ronald Reagan .  ‘Great Idea’  “I called Drew and told him that I had a great idea,”
Johnson told Pensions & Investments. “We made up some slides
and went in to see him.”  During the meeting, Lewis made a phone call to Donald Regan, Reagan’s first Treasury secretary, Benna recalled. That
call paved the way for Benna to work directly with the Treasury
regulator who was drafting the proposed 401(k) regulations.  Two top Treasury officials later passed the news to Johnson
that his firm’s 401(k) interpretation would pass muster.  As it turned out, Cheltenham National Bank declined to
enact the idea. So Johnson put it in place at his own company,
which at the time had a profit-sharing plan but no pension. The
program offered to the company’s 80 employees, called Cash-Op,
enabled them to buy company stock, with an employer match, in
tax-deferred accounts.  Pioneering Work  Benna and Johnson weren’t alone on the 401(k) frontier.
Other benefits executives were fleshing out similar
possibilities around 1979 and 1980, including Herbert A.
Whitehouse at Johnson & Johnson, who, in a  2003 paper , took
issue with the notion that Benna or anybody else could
accurately be called “the father” of the 401(k).  Since their start in the 1980s, 401(k)s have become the
fastest-growing retirement-savings option for U.S. workers.
Americans held $3.4 trillion in the plans as of March 31,
according to the Washington-based  Investment Company Institute ,
a trade group for the mutual fund industry. That compares with
$2.5 trillion in private-sector defined-benefit pension plans.  Edwin Thomas Johnson was born on Jan. 31, 1930, and was
raised in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, growing up on family
farms. Following his 1951 graduation from Gettysburg College in
Pennsylvania, he worked at Provident Mutual Life Insurance Co.
in Philadelphia. Later, he got a job at Massachusetts Mutual
Life Insurance Co.  Gettysburg Trustee  The Johnson Cos. was acquired in 1990 by Croyden, U.K.-
based Noble Lowndes Group Ltd., which today is part of  Marsh &
McLennan Cos. (MMC) ’ Mercer unit. One of the divisions, Johnson
Kendall & Johnson Inc., remains a provider of insurance
brokerage and risk management services.  Johnson served on the Gettysburg  College board  of trustees
and helped administer the school’s annual  Lincoln Prize , awarded
to authors of new books about the Civil War era.  Survivors include his wife of 60 years, Cynthia S. Johnson,
and children, E. Thomas Johnson Jr. and Rebecca J. Kerchner,
according to the death notice.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net 
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  