-- Egypt’s Peace Plan for Syria Could Help the U.S., Too
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-30T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/egypt-s-peace-plan-for-syria-could-help-the-u-s-too.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi
chose for his first big foreign policy move to visit Iran and
propose a regional quartet to end the conflict in Syria that
would include Iran but not the U.S.  He could hardly have made a clearer public declaration of
independence from  U.S. foreign policy . But the State Department
should relax. It should even -- quietly -- help Mursi out.  By involving all the important regional players, Mursi’s
plan addresses the core threat that the 17-month-old Syria
conflict poses to U.S. interests: a widening confrontation
between Shiites and Sunnis across the Middle East.  The Egyptian leader’s statement of intent has triggered
renewed hand-wringing in parts of Washington over the loss of
U.S. influence in the region, as President  Barack Obama  pulls
forces out of  Afghanistan  after their departure from  Iraq , holds
off on the airstrike on Iran’s nuclear facilities that  Israel 
wants, and balks at military intervention in Syria. It doesn’t
help those concerns that Mursi hails from the Muslim
Brotherhood.  The hand-wringers should relax, too. The U.S. still has a
great deal of influence in the  Middle East . Supporting  Egypt  as
it takes a lead of its own is smart diplomacy and can advance
interests that the U.S. happens to share, while strengthening
shaky ties with the new government in Cairo.  Mursi’s decision to become the first Egyptian president to
visit Iran since the 1979 revolution looked like a propaganda
coup for the regime in Tehran, but the speech he made Thursday
to a summit of the nonaligned movement was nothing his hosts
wanted to hear. He said Syria’s leaders, who are closely allied
to Iran, had lost their legitimacy and that outsiders had a
moral duty to intervene to help the Syrian people against an
“oppressive” regime. The Syrian delegation walked out.  Mursi’s proposal would bring Egypt,  Iran , Saudi Arabia and
 Turkey  to the table to secure a negotiated end to Syrian
bloodletting, with the clear proviso that President Bashar Al- Assad must go. The initiative is designed to recapture for Egypt
the role of the Arab world’s key mover that it had in the 1950s
and 1960s, under President Gamal Abdel Nasser, but long since
ceded to Saudi Arabia and even tiny  Qatar .  The quartet idea is far from guaranteed to get traction.
Both Assad and Syria’s fragmented opposition clearly intend to
fight to the finish. There’s growing evidence that Iran’s
security forces are involved in Syria, while Saudi Arabia and
Qatar are funding arms for the Free Syrian Army. Turkey, for its
part,  pressed  Thursday at the  United Nations  to create safe
zones for refugees inside Syria, a move that would require
military intervention. None of that augurs well for a deal.  Saudi Arabia, meanwhile, would take some persuading even to
sit down with its archrival, Shiite Iran, and the U.S. killed
off a previous bid to involve Iran by the UN’s former Syria
envoy  Kofi Annan . Iran already responded informally to Mursi by
floating a ludicrous spoiler plan that wouldn’t include the
Sunni Saudis and Turks, but would involve Venezuela and Shiite-
run Lebanon and Iraq.  Yet the same sectarian factors demonstrate why Mursi’s
effort to bring the region’s crucial Sunni and Shiite players
together makes sense and should stay on the table as events
unfold, especially with a view to the conflict’s aftermath. A
win by one side or the other in Syria is unlikely to end the
fighting or the risk of regional spillover, and all the
surrounding nations share an interest in preventing that. So do
 China , Israel,  Russia  and the U.S.  Mursi’s plan also has the advantage of circumventing the UN
Security Council, which has been paralyzed since the start of
the conflict by differences between  France , the U.K. and the
U.S. on one side, and China and Russia on the other.  There is a precedent for such regional mediation. Qatar was
once the go-between for Saudi Arabia on one side and Iran and
its proxies on the other. It brokered a peace deal between
Lebanon’s factions in 2007, when both Iran and Saudi Arabia were
critical players in the background. Qatar can’t mediate the
 Syria  conflict, having helped to arm the Sunni opposition. Egypt
has called on Assad to go, but hasn’t become so deeply involved.
It also has no major problems of Sunni-Shiite sectarianism
(Muslim-Christian tensions are another matter).  Mursi’s plan may not succeed, but the U.S., which could
reap benefits from it, shouldn’t shoot it down. Given that
nothing else is working in Syria, it’s hard to see how an
Egyptian attempt at regional mediation could do harm.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Stephen L. Carter on why he is  still an NFL
fan ; William Pesek on  China’s slowing economy ;  Amity Shlaes  on
how Romney can cut the  mortgage-interest deduction ; Naomi
Schaefer Riley on why  summer college tours are a waste of time .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 