-- Melbourne Hasn’t Seen Worst of Housing Drop as Glut Builds
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-08-31T03:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/melbourne-hasn-t-seen-worst-of-lower-home-prices-as-glut-builds.html
Melbourne, where  home prices  have
fallen more than in any other major Australian city, may see
further declines as a record number of new developments approved
in the boom years hit the market.  Home values in the capital of Victoria state  lost  6.6
percent in the year ended in June, the biggest drop among the
eight state capitals, according to researcher RP Data. Building
work started on a record 47,293 homes in Melbourne in the 12
months ended June 2011, compared with estimated demand of
32,334, according to  figures  from researcher BIS Shrapnel.  “You’ve got developers who’re producing a massive surge of
supply and they’re all facing losing money unless they sell
soon, so there’s huge discounting pressure,” said Steve Keen,
author of the book “Debunking Economics” and associate
professor in economics at the University of Western Sydney.
“And listings are rising because demand has fallen severely.”  Prices surged  123 percent  between 2002 and 2010, prompting
the state to take steps to help speed up construction in
response to forecasts for higher demand in the city. As
developers responded,  increasing  the number of housing units 41
percent from 2008 to 2011,  population growth  slowed. That
created the nation’s most over-supplied housing market.  Some 160,381 permits were granted to build houses and
apartments in Melbourne in the four years to June 30, compared
with 80,918 in Sydney,  Australia ’s biggest city, and 613,837
across the nation, statistics bureau data shows.  Apartment Projects  “New construction will keep a lid on any major recovery”
in Melbourne, said Louis Christopher, managing director of
Sydney-based property advisory firm SQM Research. “There are
also a lot of foreign investors in the marketplace. This makes
it potentially volatile, and, if they want to get out, it could
be problematic.”  Far East Consortium Ltd. (35) , based in Hong Kong, is developing
a A$1 billion ($1 billion), 2,600-apartment complex in the city
center, about 2 kilometers (1.2 miles) from the Rod Laver Arena,
where the Australian Open tennis championships are played.
 Malaysia ’s  SP Setia Bhd (SPSB)  is building almost 800 apartments in two
towers close to Melbourne’s 134-year-old Queen Victoria Market,
also in the city center.  SP Setia sold 70 percent of the first building in Malaysia
and about half of the second tower to buyers in Malaysia,
Singapore, China and elsewhere in Asia, Choong Kai Wai, the
company’s Australian chief executive officer, said in a
telephone interview from Melbourne. It will begin marketing a
second development in South Yarra, a riverside Melbourne suburb,
this year, targeting mostly local buyers, he said.  Price ‘Resistance’  “I don’t think there’s an oversupply because the rental
market is still good,” Choong said. “The reservation is the
price point. Anything above A$600,000 has a bit of resistance.”  Permits to build homes in Victoria have accounted for about
a third of the country’s total since the middle of 2008,
according to the statistics bureau. The state has had the most
dwelling starts in Australia since July 2008, statistics bureau
figures show.  Melbourne’s  rental vacancy rate  was 2.9 percent in July, up
from 2.5 percent a year ago, according to SQM. The number of
homes  listed for sale  climbed 4.8 percent from a year earlier to
48,322 as demand slowed, SQM said. Both levels were the highest
among Australia’s eight state and territory capitals.  Victoria’s moves to do away with tight land-release
policies and zoning restrictions had won praise in a nation
where such controls are blamed for a housing shortage that’s
driving home prices beyond the reach of ordinary workers.  Low Density  The measures have helped lift Melbourne, known as
Australia’s cultural capital for its art festivals and stage
performances, to the top of the Economist Intelligence Unit’s
Global Liveability Survey this year, which included Adelaide,
Sydney and Perth in the top 10. The Economist cited the
Australian cities’ low density and improvements to
infrastructure as factors that contributed to their ranking.  Even after recent declines, Melbourne -- with its historic
tram network and cafe culture -- remains the priciest city in
Australia compared with long-term averages, according to Morgan
Stanley.  The median price of a home in Melbourne was $493,688 as of
July 31, according to RP Data, based on the  exchange rate  on
that day. That compares with $340,600 in  New York , according to
real estate data provider  Zillow Inc. , and $564,593 as of June
30 in  London , based on the most recent figures from the  Land
Registry .  ‘Pricing Pressure’  “With significant spikes in dwellings under construction
and dwellings on market, weaker population growth and now the
lowest relative affordability of all markets, we expect pricing
pressure in Victoria will continue for some time,” Morgan
Stanley analysts, led by Lou Pirenc, wrote in a July 23 report.  Homes under construction in the city are now 80 percent
above the 20-year average, the analysts wrote.  Relative to incomes, Melbourne had the fourth- most
unaffordable  homes among metropolitan areas with populations of
more than 1.5 million people in the developed world, consultancy
Demographia said in a report in January, behind  Hong Kong ,
 Vancouver  and Sydney. Melbourne’s median home price is 8.4 times
median household income, compared with 6.9 times in London, 6.2
times in New York and 5.5 times in Toronto.  The Housing Industry Association-Commonwealth Bank  Housing
Affordability Index  for Melbourne rose 7.3 percent in the first
quarter of 2012, partly driven by falling land prices.  Cheaper Land  The median price of a land lot fell to A$210,000 in the
quarter ended June 30, from a peak of A$225,750 as of Dec. 31,
2010, according to Melbourne-based property services company
 Oliver Hume Real Estate Group . When incentives and rebates were
included, the actual price fell below A$200,000 for the first
time since June 2010, according to Andrew Perkins, the group’s
national head of research.  Melbourne’s population growth slowed from  2.4 percent  in
the year ended June 2009 to  2 percent  the following year and  1.6
percent  in the 12 months ended June 2011, according to state
government figures.  The city of 4.1 million people on the estuary of the Yarra
River boasts the Australian head offices of mining giants  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group, and lenders  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)   Despite the concerns about a glut, “it’s too early to
conclude that Victoria’s planning policy failed or created a
massive oversupply problem,”  Matthew Hassan , Sydney-based
senior economist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , said in a telephone
interview. “We expect a few moves downward from the  Reserve
Bank  next year, which will bolster a very patchy stabilization
process.”  Rate Cuts  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  has reduced the overnight
 cash rate  by 1.25 percentage points since November 2011 to 3.5
percent, partly in response to a stalling housing market, as the
lack of affordable homes and economic uncertainty kept buyers on
the sidelines. The rate cuts, as well as rising rental yields,
have likely increased the attractiveness of investing in
housing, the central bank said in minutes of its Aug. 7 board
meeting.  Credit to consumers across Australia to buy homes rose 0.3
percent in July from the previous month, and 4.9 percent from a
year earlier, the RBA said in a report today. Total lending rose
4.2 percent from a year ago.  Along with SP Setia and Far East Consortium, local groups
are also building major housing and apartment projects. The
Industry Superannuation Property Trust, an Australian direct
property investment manager owned by pension funds, is planning
a complex with six buildings containing 2,900 apartments. Listed
trust  Mirvac Group (MGR) ’s projects include Yarra’s Edge, a five-tower
neighborhood that includes luxury apartments and homes in the
Docklands.  Empty Houses  “We’re in a period in the short-term where we have seen
some signs of oversupply,” Brett Draffen, chief executive
officer of Mirvac’s development division, said in a telephone
interview from Sydney. “But underlying fundamentals will be
strong for the medium term and beyond, and that’s when those
projects come online.”  The number of unoccupied homes further exacerbates the
issue, according to tax-reform advocacy group Prosper Australia.
About 246,742, or 11.3 percent, of homes across Victoria were
 unoccupied , data from the 2011 Census showed. Melbourne alone
has about 90,730 empty houses, according to a  report  by
Earthsharing Australia, a subsidiary of Prosper, based on the
number of homes that used less than 50 liters (13.2 gallons) of
water a day between July and December.  “There’s a profound oversupply in both apartments in the
city and in the outer suburbs,” said David Collyer, campaign
manager at Prosper. “We’re not seeing anything like the demand
response needed to sustain a recovery. The market has nowhere to
go but down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  