-- Electronic Arts Betting on Cheaper Free-to-Play Titles
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-08-30T18:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/electronic-arts-betting-on-cheaper-free-to-play-titles.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , the second-
largest U.S. video-game publisher, will develop fewer Facebook
games as it shifts to mobile and free offerings, the head of the
company’s development studios said.  The maker of “Madden NFL” and “Medal of Honor” has
become the largest publisher of games that are free to play on
mobile devices, Frank Gibeau, president of the  Redwood City ,
California-based company’s EA Labels said in an interview.  Electronic Arts is hastening development of less-expensive
games, titles that cost $2 million to $5 million to produce, to
double its share of the mobile market, which Gibeau put in the
“low teens” in percentage terms. To that end, Electronic Arts
combined Playfish, the unit focused on social-media games, with
Maxis studio, which develops the popular “Sims” franchise.  “We’ll build social games, but we’ll probably have a
smaller line-up,” Gibeau said yesterday. “Free-to-play is the
dominant model. You can fail fast and you can fail cheap.”  Developers are trying to adopt a “cross-platform”
strategy, delivering games for play on everything from
traditional home consoles to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPads and Facebook.  Those efforts have been complicated by the shifting tastes
of casual players, constituting the majority of the market, who
don’t stick with individual games for very long, Gibeau said.  With free-to-play games, users spend nothing upfront. About
10 percent to 15 percent of players purchase additional levels
or add-ons. “The Simpsons” is the most popular such game for
Electronic Arts, Gibeau said.  PopCap Games  Electronic Arts’  PopCap Games , which makes titles played on
Facebook, fired about 10 percent of its staff on Aug. 21.  The company acquired PopCap in July 2011 for $750 million
in cash and stock, with performance incentives that potentially
raised the price to $1.3 billion.  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the largest maker
of games played on Facebook, has been grappling with an exodus
of top executives as it tries to revive growth by making more
money from mobile services.  Electronic Arts gained 2 percent to $13.10 at 2:28 p.m. in
 New York . It had  declined  38 percent this year as of yesterday.
 Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  is the largest U.S. publisher.  With the global online gambling market poised to hit $30
billion by 2013, social game makers also are preparing to offer
products with real betting as a new source of revenue.  Electronic Arts hasn’t yet decided whether to add gambling
to its  World Series  of Poker game and another title, Gibeau
said. It would be relatively easy to do so, he added.  “We don’t need to do this in order to grow our company and
achieve our goals,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  