-- Elon Musk Says He May Form Holding Company for Tesla, SpaceX
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-08-30T20:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/elon-musk-says-he-may-form-holding-company-for-tesla-spacex-1-.html
Elon Musk, co-founder of  Tesla
Motors Inc. (TSLA)  and founder of Space Exploration Technologies Corp.,
said he’s interested in creating a holding company for shares of
his electric car and rocket launch businesses.  “Am starting to consider whether it would make sense to
create a parent corporation that would own the stock,” Musk
said today in a Web chat on jalopnik.com. “Not sure if that is
feasible or sensible, but am thinking about it.”  Musk, 41, who is  Palo Alto , California-based Tesla’s chief
executive officer and biggest investor, has said an initial
public offering of his aerospace company, known as SpaceX, may
happen next year.  SpaceX, based in Hawthorne,  California , in May became the
first private company to send a spacecraft to supply the
International Space Station, and this month won a $440 million
U.S. government contract to develop spacecraft for future cargo
missions. Musk has said Tesla, which sold shares to the public
for the first time in 2010, may be profitable as early as 2013
from sales of battery-powered Model S sedans.  There’s not yet any formal plan to create a parent entity
for the two companies, Musk said in an e-mail today.  “No actual plans under way,” he said. “Gets unwieldy to
have lots of companies with me as the only connection.”  ‘Supercar’ Plans  Musk also said on the Web chat that Tesla is studying the
addition of an electric “supercar.” That category of vehicles
currently includes racing-style models from brands such as
Ferrari SpA and Volkswagen AG’s Lamborghini that can cost more
than $200,000.  “We will do an electric supercar at some point,” Musk
said. Initially, Tesla considered adding such a vehicle to its
lineup after the introduction in 2013 of the battery-powered
Model X sport-utility vehicle, he said.  “It was going to happen right after the Model X, but it is
more important to the world that we do a more affordable
electric car,” Musk said. “Hopefully, we will get to an
electric supercar in four to five years.”  The Model S, which began production in June at Tesla’s
plant in Fremont, California, has a starting price of $57,400
and can cost more than $100,000, depending on battery pack size
and other options. The vehicle qualifies for a $7,500 federal
tax credit.  Tesla was unchanged at $28.41 at the close in  New York . The
 stock  has declined 0.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  