-- Elpida Bondholders Seek Alternative Sponsors to Replace Micron
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-08-30T04:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/elpida-bondholders-seek-alternative-sponsors-to-replace-micron.html
About 20 bondholders of Elpida
Memory Inc., the bankrupt Japanese chipmaker, are negotiating
with alternative sponsors to replace a takeover offer by  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)  they consider too low, a representative said.  “We are talking to both strategic and financial
investors,” Anthony Correa, head of  Asia  operations for Taconic
Capital Advisors LP, said today in a conference call with
reporters. “We are in the midst of gathering information from
the trustee so that we can proceed with the plan.”  Correa, based in  Hong Kong , said he represents about 20
bondholders in Asia,  Europe , and the U.S. with a total of 100
billion yen ($1.2 billion) in Elpida notes. The bondholders
believe Micron’s 200 billion-yen offer for the  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
 supplier  is “very unfair” because the company is worth 300
billion yen, and they have presented their own revival plan to
 creditors , he said.  It’s the second time this month bondholders are publicly
opposing Micron’s proposal to buy Elpida, a combination that
would double the Boise, Idaho-based company’s share of the
global market for dynamic random access memory -- the most
widely used memory chips in personal computers. Elpida  sought 
protection from creditors in February with 448 billion yen of
liabilities after lower chip prices and a stronger yen eroding
the value of overseas earnings prompted a fifth straight
quarterly loss.  Samsung Competition  A spokesman for Elpida declined to comment. Dan Francisco,
a Micron spokesman, didn’t immediately return a call or e-mail
outside business hours seeking comment.  Micron agreed to buy Elpida in July in a deal that may help
Micron vie with industry leader  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  while
giving it greater control over supply gluts that have caused it
to report  losses  amid falling prices. Micron shares are down 1.4
percent this year in  New York  trading, compared with a 12
percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Micron agreed to pay 60 billion yen in cash at the closing
of the deal, while the remaining 140 billion yen in future
annual installments through 2019 will come from  cash flow 
generated by Micron’s payments for chips made by Elpida,
according to a July 2 statement.  Correa said today that Micron reduced its 60 billion-yen
cash offer for Elpida shares to 38 billion yen.  “We have just learned about the reduction this week and
are not clear on reasons,” Correa said.  Elpida will get 280 billion yen in support from Micron, the
Asahi newspaper reported Aug. 21, without saying where it got
the information. The U.S. company will buy Elpida shares for 60
billion yen to make it wholly owned in the first half of 2013
and provide 80 billion yen in loans and debt guarantees, the
Asahi said, citing a revival plan submitted in Tokyo District
Court.  Micron will also help Elpida generate 140 billion yen in
profit by buying its chips during a seven-year period, the Asahi
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  