-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fall for Fifth Day on Slowdown Concern
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-30T22:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/emerging-market-stocks-fall-for-fifth-day-on-slowdown-concern.html
Emerging-market  stocks  dropped for a
fifth day, the longest declining streak in seven weeks, as
losses at Chinese shipping companies and rising unemployment in
Germany fueled concern that the economic slowdown is deepening.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.9 percent to 944.39,
the lowest level since July 27. China Shipping Container Lines
Co. tumbled 11 percent, the most in the MSCI  index. (VXEEM)  OAO
Mosenergo, the Moscow-based power generator controlled by OAO
Gazprom, slumped 2.3 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa stock index slid
for a second day, with state electricity utility company  Cia.
Energetica de Sao Paulo  among the biggest losers.  Almost 60 percent of companies in the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  that reported second-quarter results so far have trailed
analysts’ estimates, eroding investor confidence in the world’s
second-biggest economy. German unemployment increased for a
fifth straight month in August, while South Korean
manufacturers’ confidence stayed near the lowest since 2009,
data showed today. More Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week, according to
another report.  “Economic data is going to be weak for a while and it’s
not something very surprising,”  Gaelle Blanchard , an emerging-
markets strategist at Societe Generale SA, said by phone from
London. “If we have positive steps that the market expects from
the  Federal Reserve  and the  European Central Bank , it could lead
to a new wave of market optimism.”  Monthly Decline  The MSCI emerging-market gauge has declined 0.9 percent in
August, after rising during the previous two months. The 21-
country gauge is up 3.1 percent this year, compared with a 7.6
percent gain in the MSCI World Index of developed-nation shares.  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 1.2
percent to the lowest in four weeks. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF (EEM)  Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
jumped 3.8 percent.  The Bovespa dropped 0.2 percent, with Cia. Energetica
declining 6.1 percent to the lowest since May 29. Cia. de
Transmissao de Energia Eletrica Paulista, or CTEEP, which
transmits electrical power, fell 7.3 percent.  Brazil’s central bank reduced its benchmark  interest rate 
late yesterday by 0.5 percentage point to a record 7.5 percent,
as forecast by all 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Jobless Claims  U.S. jobless claims were little changed at 374,000 in the
week ended Aug. 25, matching the upwardly revised figure from
the prior week, the Labor Department reported today in
Washington. The median forecast of 50 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  called for 370,000.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  is scheduled to speak
tomorrow in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, where he may discuss the
economic outlook. Countries in the MSCI emerging-market index
send about 13 percent of their exports to the U.S. on average,
data compiled by the World Trade Organization show.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries climbed 1 basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 318, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  The  Shanghai  Composite fell to the lowest level since
February 2009. Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite Index tumbled 1.7
percent. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose 0.3 percent.  Chinese Earnings  China Cosco, the nation’s largest listed shipping firm,
said its dry-bulk and container units both posted larger losses
than a year earlier. CSCL’s first-half loss doubled.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) , the nation’s third-largest
lender by market value, dropped 2.7 percent after posting
second-quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates.
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s largest
lender by market value, said after the close of trading in
Shanghai that earnings grew at the weakest pace in three years.  The Philippine peso climbed 0.2 percent against the dollar,
snapping a three-day decline, after second-quarter economic
growth beat economists’ forecasts. Gross domestic product
expanded 5.9 percent from a year earlier, compared with the 5.5
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The ruble
dropped 1.1 percent against the dollar to the weakest level in
four weeks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  