-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fall for Fifth Day on Slowdown Concern
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-08-30T13:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/emerging-market-stocks-fall-to-four-week-low-on-china-earnings.html
Emerging-market  stocks  fell for a
fifth day, the longest losing streak in seven weeks, as losses
at Chinese shipping companies and rising unemployment in  Germany 
fueled concern that the economic slowdown is deepening.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  declined 0.7 percent to
945.89 at 9:10 a.m. in  New York , heading for the lowest level on
a closing basis since Aug. 2. China Shipping Container Lines Co.
tumbled 11 percent, the most in the MSCI index, and  China Cosco
Holdings Co. (1919)  retreated 3.5 percent.  OAO Transneft (TRNFP) , a Russian oil
pipeline operator, sank to a four-week low after posting a 23
percent drop in earnings. The South African rand, Czech koruna
and Hungarian forint led declines in emerging-market currencies.  Almost 60 percent of companies in the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  that reported second-quarter results so far have trailed
analysts’ estimates, eroding investor confidence in the world’s
second-biggest economy. German unemployment increased for a
fifth straight month in August. U.S. consumer spending rose for
the first time in three months in July, dimming speculation that
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will announce more
stimulus steps tomorrow in  Wyoming .  “Chinese earnings are falling and there is excess
inventory and capacity in the country’s economy, which is
fueling fears that growth will slow more than expected,” said
 Attila Vajda , Ho Chi Minh City-based analyst at ACB Securities.
“The Fed might not directly announce anything new.”  Monthly Decline  The  Shanghai  Composite slipped less than 0.1 percent to the
lowest level since February 2009, as almost three stocks dropped
for every one that rose.  Brazil ’s Bovespa also lost less than
0.1 percent, while  Russia ’s Micex Index slid 0.2 percent.
Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite Index tumbled 1.7 percent for the
biggest decline among developing-nation equity indexes tracked
by Bloomberg.  The MSCI emerging-market gauge has declined 0.7 percent in
August, after rising 4.5 percent during the previous two months.
The 21-country gauge is up 3.3 percent this year, compared with
an 8.3 percent gain in the MSCI World Index of developed-nation
shares.  Chinese shipping companies led an MSCI Inc. gauge of
emerging-market  industrial  stocks to a 1.2 percent drop, the
biggest decline among 10 sectors. China Cosco, the nation’s
largest listed shipping firm, said its dry-bulk and container
units both posted larger losses than a year earlier. CSCL’s
first-half loss doubled.  Bank Earnings  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) , the nation’s third-largest
lender by market value, dropped 2.7 percent after posting
second-quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates.
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s largest
lender by market value, said after the close of trading in
Shanghai that earnings grew at the weakest pace in three years.  Transneft dropped 0.3 percent in Moscow. OAO Rosneft,
Russia’s largest oil producer, slipped 0.5 percent as oil
retreated for a second day in New York.  The ruble dropped 0.3 percent against the dollar to the
weakest level in almost four weeks, while South Africa’s rand
declined 0.7 percent. The koruna and the forint both fell 0.6
percent versus the euro.  Brazil’s real weakened 0.3 percent against the dollar. The
central bank reduced its benchmark  interest rate  late yesterday
by 0.5 percentage point to a record 7.5 percent, as forecast by
all 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Philippine peso climbed 0.2 percent, snapping a three-
day decline, after second-quarter economic growth beat
economists’ forecasts. Gross domestic product increased 5.9
percent from a year earlier, compared with the 5.5 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  surged 6.9 percent, the most since
May, after the Taipei-based company reported second-quarter
earnings that topped analysts’ estimates.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of east European,
Middle Eastern and African credit-default swaps rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 240. The extra yield
investors demand to own emerging-market bonds over U.S.
Treasuries rose three basis points to 319, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  