-- Employee-Software Company Workday Files for $400 Million IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-08-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/employee-software-company-workday-files-for-400-million-ipo.html
Workday Inc., whose Web-based
software helps companies manage employee operations, filed for a
$400 million U.S. initial public offering.  The amount is a placeholder used to calculate registration
fees and may change. The company, which plans to list under the
symbol WDAY, didn’t disclose how many shares it will sell or at
what price in a regulatory filing yesterday.  Workday’s programs, which handle tasks such as payroll and
human resources, are delivered via the Internet. The company was
founded in 2005 by co-Chief Executive Officers Dave Duffield and
Aneel Bhusri, both veterans of human-resources software company
PeopleSoft Inc.  Duffield holds majority voting control in Workday, while
Bhusri has a 19 percent voting stake, the filing shows. Bhusri
has also been a partner since 1999 at  Greylock Partners , the
venture-capital firm that owns an 11 percent stake in Workday,
according to the filing. Investment firm  New Enterprise
Associates  owns 10 percent of the company.  The filing didn’t disclose whether the founders or other
owners plan to sell in the offering. Proceeds will be used for
working capital and other general corporate purposes, according
to the document, which didn’t provide further details.  Revenue in the six months through July 31 more than doubled
to $119.5 million from a year earlier, while the net loss
widened to $46.9 million, Workday’s filing shows. Spending on
research and development rose 62 percent to $44.3 million, or 37
percent of revenue.  R&D Spending  That ratio is higher than the 22 percent spent in the most
recent quarter by  Splunk Inc. (SPLK) , the maker of data-analysis
software for businesses that went public in April. It’s also
higher than the 13 percent spent on R&D by ServiceNow Inc., the
provider of information-technology management software that
conducted an IPO in June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The market for software as a service, which lowers costs
for businesses because it is accessed from the cloud rather than
being installed and maintained onsite, is projected to grow 24
percent yearly to $67 billion in 2016, Workday said in its
filing, citing research firm IDC.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  were hired to
lead the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  