-- Lend Lease Plans China Retail Development Fund, Europe Cuts
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-08-30T07:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/lend-lease-plans-china-retail-development-fund-europe-cuts-1-.html
Lend Lease Group (LLC) , Australia’s
biggest property developer, plans to create a fund that will
invest in property developments in China’s biggest cities within
the next three years as it reduces its exposure to  Europe  and
the Middle East.  The Sydney-based company, which has had a construction
business in China for the past 20 years, is seeking to develop
retail properties with a mix of its own and other groups’
capital, Chief Executive Officer Steve McCann said. It has
identified 12 cities for possible developments, he said.  “We’ve been talking to a number of potential partners for
some time now,” McCann said in an interview. “The medium-term
ambition will be to launch a fund in  China  using off-shore
capital and invest alongside our investors in some development
projects.”  The  shares  climbed 2.6 percent to A$8.40 at the close of
trading in Sydney, the highest since September 2011. They’ve
risen 17 percent this year,  compared  with a 6.4 percent gain in
the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Lend Lease  today reported profit rose to A$501.4 million
($517.6 million) in the year ended June 30, driven by increases
in income from its Asian development and investment management
businesses, and its Australian construction and infrastructure
divisions. Earnings in the Americas fell to a fifth of last
year’s, and profit from its Europe, Middle East and Africa
business dropped 33 percent.  The company will maintain its focus on London and seek to
shrink its business in  Spain ,  Russia  and the  Middle East , McCann
said.  Australia Business  In Australia, where Lend Lease saw a 10 percent decline in
residential land settlements, the group will consider shrinking
lots and reducing the cost of homes to combat “challenging
trading conditions,” McCann said.  “People are a lot slower in making their investment
decisions today than they have been historically,” he said.
“There’s significant price discounting in some markets, so in a
market like that, to maintain margins, you need to be very
focused on managing costs.”  Australian home-building approvals declined in July by the
most in almost a decade as weakness outside the resources
industry hurt housing, government data showed today.  Lend Lease, which is also developing the A$6 billion
Barangaroo South financial precinct in Sydney’s center, in June
said  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and KPMG LLP will take space in the
first two towers at the site. It said in July it had created a
property trust with A$2 billion of its own and other investors’
capital to fund the project, and this month said it’s in talks
with billionaire  James Packer ’s  Crown Ltd. (CWN)  to build a six-star
resort on the site.  The group, which sold its first Singapore dollar-
denominated bonds in July, won’t  borrow  to fund the Barangaroo
project, McCann said. Rather, the Barangaroo trust will issue
debt, likely as it nears completion of the two towers, McCann
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  