-- Lenovo Brings Smartphone to Indonesia, Philippines, India
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-31T13:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/lenovo-brings-smartphone-to-indonesia-philippines-india.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
second-largest computer maker, said it will bring smartphones to
India, the Philippines and Indonesia to gain more heft and
experience before entering developed markets such as the U.S.  After starting smartphone sales 2 1/2 years ago in  China ,
Lenovo is ready to expand outside its home market, Milko Van Duijl, president for the Asia-Pacific and Latin America regions,
said in an interview. Lenovo has already found distribution
partners in the three  developing countries , he said.  The company will draw on its experience selling devices in
rural parts of China, the country where Lenovo’s smartphones
overtook  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s iPhone for the second-biggest market share
in the second quarter, according to researcher IDC. Moving to
 emerging markets  first will help the company expand its
smartphone business while avoiding expensive marketing and
intellectual-property hurdles in the U.S. and western  Europe ,
Van Duijl said.  “The U.S. is a carrier-driven market which implies
subsidies and churn rates are more important as well as brand,
and while Lenovo has a PC brand, the smartphone brand is still
unknown,” Kishore Suratkal, an analyst at Religare Capital
Markets in  Hong Kong , said in an e-mail today. “It makes sense
for Lenovo to perfect the product portfolio in emerging markets
where distribution matters more than carriers, establish a
brand, and then attack the U.S. market.”  Principal Product  The PC maker has been stepping up development of
smartphones, tablets and Internet-ready televisions to offer a
wider variety of products to consumers, following the strategies
of Apple and Samsung Electronics Co. Smartphones would
eventually be the company’s principal product in emerging
markets as the devices take on more of the functions of
televisions and PCs, Van Duijl said.  “When we enter a market, we want to be in the top,” he
said at Bloomberg’s  New York  headquarters. “You won’t see us
for a while in mature markets.”  Lenovo, which splits its headquarters between Beijing and
Morrisville,  North Carolina , fell 0.6 percent to HK$6.30 at the
close in Hong Kong. The  shares  have advanced 22 percent this
year, compared with a 5.7 percent increase in the  Hang Seng
Index .  In the U.S., Lenovo would have to change consumers’
perception of its brand, known for ThinkPad computers, not
smartphones, Van Duijl said. Negotiating and securing rights to
use other companies’ intellectual property is also more
difficult in the U.S., he said.  Market-Share Gain  “You have to do so much with the IP rights,” he said.
“It would take too much time and too much investment to lead in
the U.S. with phones. We’d have to lead in price, which is not
our strategy.”  Lenovo said Aug. 16 it posted a 30 percent increase in
fiscal first-quarter  profit  on a worldwide expansion of market
share.  Sales  in the Asia-Pacific and Latin America regions
overseen by Van Duijl increased 72 percent to $1.72 billion in
the period, the company said.  In China, Lenovo still trails Samsung in smartphone sales.
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  is the only PC maker larger than Lenovo.  “In the context of the type of smartphone business Lenovo
has, I don’t actually see much option but to aim for emerging
markets at this point,” said Jean-Louis Lafayeedney, an analyst
at JI  Asia  in Hong Kong. “Lenovo wants to grow scale quickly,
and capitalize on its best-selling smartphones in China, which
are mostly in the cheap range.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  