-- Euro-Area Confidence Drops, German Jobless Increases: Economy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-08-30T11:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/euro-area-confidence-drops-more-than-forecast-to-3-year-low-1-.html
Economic confidence  in the euro area
fell more than economists forecast in August as leaders
struggled to rein in the sovereign debt crisis and the region’s
slump deepened.  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area dropped to 86.1 from 87.9 in July, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. That’s the lowest since
August 2009. Economists had forecast a decline to 87.5, the
median of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. In
Germany, jobless claims rose for a fifth month in August.  European consumers and executives are growing  more
pessimistic  about the outlook as officials try to contain the
debt turmoil that’s showing little sign of abating. Spanish
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  meets with French President
Francois Hollande today as he considers seeking a second
European bailout.  “The economy might have contracted slightly more than
previously forecast in the third quarter,” said  Christoph Weil ,
an economist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “We still expect
the economy to stabilize toward year-end but for that to happen,
indicators would have to improve over the coming months. The
problem is that the core of the euro area is weakening as well,
pushing the economy deeper into recession.”  Downside Risks  The euro traded at $1.2542 as of 12:02 p.m. in  London , up
0.1 percent on the day. It has depreciated 3.2 percent against
the dollar this year after  Spain  and Cyprus were both forced to
ask for external aid in June, joining  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal . The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped for a third
straight day, declining 0.4 percent.  Moody’s Investors Service said today that downside risks to
the global recovery this year and next have increased. Growth in
2012 will be “materially lower” than last year, with the euro
region’s fiscal crisis posing the biggest risk to the outlook,
the ratings company said.  Global leaders have also signaled concern about the
turmoil. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  told visiting German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  that Spain,  Italy  and Greece must take
“comprehensive measures” to prevent a worsening of the
region’s fiscal crisis.  Troika Report  Still, euro-area leaders have said they will await a report
from Greece’s troika of creditors -- the  European Central Bank ,
the European Commission and the  International Monetary Fund  --
before making a decision on whether to ease the terms of the
country’s $240 billion lifeline. The ECB is also working out a
plan to help support indebted nations by purchasing their bonds
in tandem with the region’s rescue fund.  Still, governments may find it more difficult to plug their
budget gaps without economic growth. The euro-area shrank 0.2
percent in the second quarter and indicators have since shown
signs of a deepening slump. Services and manufacturing output
shrank for a seventh month in August, Markit Economics in London
said on Aug. 23.  Euro-region  unemployment  probably rose to a record 10.3
percent in July from 10.2 percent the previous month, according
to a Bloomberg survey. The European Union’s statistics office
will release the report tomorrow at 11 a.m. in Luxembourg.  Today’s confidence report showed that a gauge of sentiment
among manufacturers fell to minus 15.3 in August from minus 15.1
in July. That’s the lowest since December 2009. Services
confidence dropped to minus 10.8 from minus 8.5, while consumer
sentiment slipped to minus 24.6 from minus 21.5, a three-year
low. Sentiment in the  construction industry  also worsened.  German Slowdown  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, which helped counter
the euro area’s slowdown in the first half of the year, business
confidence fell for a fourth straight month in August. The
number of people  out of work  increased a seasonally adjusted
9,000 to 2.90 million in August, the Federal Labor Agency in
Nuremberg said today. Economists forecast a gain of 7,000.  In a separate report, the VDMA machine-makers’ association
said German plant and machinery orders declined for a ninth
month in July as domestic demand slumped. Orders, adjusted for
inflation, fell 2 percent from a year earlier after dropping an
annual 1 percent in June.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, on Aug. 1 reported its first drop in quarterly
operating profit in almost three years. Chief Executive Officer
 Norbert Reithofer  said global conditions may “deteriorate in
the face of the euro crisis and high government debt.”  Australia Housing  In  Australia , a government report today underscored a
slowdown in the nation’s housing market, with  building approvals 
tumbling 17.3 percent in July from June, the most in almost a
decade. A separate release showed that business investment rose
3.4 percent in the second quarter from the previous three
months, less than half the prior gain.  The Philippines today reported that gross domestic product
rose 5.9 percent in the second quarter from a year before, down
from 6.3 percent in January-to-March. In  Japan ,  retail sales 
fell more than economists forecast in July.  In the euro area, gauges on the outlook also weakened in
August. A measure of manufacturers’ production expectations
decreased to minus 8.6 from minus 7.7 in July, today’s report
showed. An indicator of order books fell to minus 29.4 from
minus 28.3, while an index of employment expectations also
declined from the previous month.  “The sustained fiscal austerity and muddling through
approach to the crisis is increasingly taking its toll on
economic confidence across the region,” said Martin van Vliet,
an economist at ING Group in Amsterdam.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 2 that the central
bank may intervene in bond markets to lower borrowing costs of
Italy and Spain if those governments request aid from the
European Stability Mechanism. Policy makers, who cut borrowing
costs to 0.75 percent in July, will hold their next meeting on
Sept. 6 in Frankfurt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  