-- Ex-Champ Clijsters Exits U.S. Open as Murray, Sharapova Advance
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/ex-champ-clijsters-exits-u-s-open-as-murray-sharapova-advance.html
Kim Clijsters  said the  U.S. Open 
felt like the perfect place to close out her tennis career. The
three-time champion just didn’t expect to be pushed into
retirement three days into the two-week tournament.  Clijsters, 29, was eliminated from the season’s final Grand
Slam tournament in the second round yesterday with a 7-6 (7-4),
7-6 (7-5) loss to 18-year-old Laura Robson of Britain. The
defeat, which matched Clijsters’s earliest exit in nine
appearances at the National Tennis Center in  New York , ended her
22-match U.S. Open winning streak dating back to 2003.  “It’s been an incredible journey and a lot of dreams for
me have come true because of tennis,” Clijsters said at a news
conference. “In these two rounds, I played players that I spoke
to and they said that I inspired them. That’s a great feeling
because I was once in that situation as well.”  Robson, at No. 89 the youngest player in the top 100 of the
women’s rankings, said she’s looked up to Clijsters as a role
model since starting on the WTA Tour. Clijsters, who turned
professional in 1997, said losing in the last of her 163 Grand
Slam singles matches made her reflect on a career that included
meetings with major champions such as  Steffi Graf  and  Monica Seles  when she was a teenager.  Clijsters, who will still play in the U.S. Open doubles
competition with fellow Belgian Kirsten Flipkens, leaves the
sport with 41 singles titles -- including four majors -- and a
523-127 record. She went out on the same court upon which she
won U.S. Open titles in 2005, 2009 and 2010. Clijsters missed
the tournament four of the previous seven seasons due to
injuries and a two-year break to start a family.  ‘Biggest Dreams’  “One of my biggest dreams came true in 2005 winning
here,” Clijsters said. “Every time I came back I was just so
inspired by the energy that was out on this court and I played
some of my best tennis and greatest matches here.”  Her last loss in New York had been against Justin Henin,
also of  Belgium , in the 2003 final.  Women’s top seed  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus advanced to
the third round yesterday with a straight-set win, as did 2006
U.S. Open winner and No. 3 seed  Maria Sharapova  of Russia, No. 5
Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic and seventh-seeded Samantha Stosur of Australia, the defending women’s champion.  “I would have thought Kim retiring should be the main
story no matter who won,” Stosur, 28, told reporters yesterday
following her 6-3, 6-0 victory against Romanian qualifier Edina
Gallovits-Hall.  Robson’s Next  Robson is in the third round of a major for the first time
and will face ninth-seeded  Li Na  of  China .  Men’s No. 3 seed  Andy Murray  of Britain, who won the
Olympic gold medal in London, cruised into the third round last
night with a 6-2, 6-1, 6-3 win against Ivan Dodig of Croatia.
Fourth-seeded  David Ferrer  of Spain and No. 7 seed Juan Martin Del Potro of Argentina -- the 2009 champion -- also advanced
with straight-set victories.  John Isner , who at No. 9 is the top-seeded U.S. player in
the men’s draw, won in four sets against Xavier Malisse of
Belgium, while No. 8 Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia rallied from two
sets down to defeat French wild-card entry Guillaume Rufin.  Five-time U.S. Open champion and men’s top seed  Roger Federer  of Switzerland returns to action tonight with a second-
round match against Bjorn Phau of Germany. Federer has a 22-0
record in night session matches at the U.S. Open.  Williams Sisters  Serena and  Venus Williams , who have combined for five U.S.
Open women’s titles between them, will both seek to advance to
the third round today.  Fourth-seeded Serena faces Maria Jose Martinez Sanchez of
Spain, while Venus meets sixth-seeded Angelique Kerber of
Germany in the second featured night match in Arthur Ashe
Stadium.  Mardy Fish  of the U.S., who’s seeded 23rd, is scheduled to
play Nikolay Davydenko of Russia in a second-round match, while
other men’s seeds in action today include No. 5 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France, No. 6 Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic , No.
11 Nicolas Almagro of Spain, No. 12 Marin Cilic of Croatia, No.
16 Gilles Simon of France and No. 27 Sam Querrey of the U.S.  Second-seeded woman Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland faces
Carla Suarez Navarro of Spain on the Grandstand court, while No.
10 Sara Errani of Italy, No. 12 Ana Ivanovic of Serbia and No.
14 Maria Kirilenko of Russia also play second-round matches.  Sharapova, 25, dropped only one game in her 54-minute romp
last night against Lourdes Dominguez Lino of Spain to set up a
third-round meeting with 21-year-old American amateur Mallory
Burdette, who is making her Grand Slam main-draw singles debut.  Murray, 25, became the first player in the men’s draw to
reach the third round by beating Dodig in last night’s final
featured match in Arthur Ashe Stadium. Murray will next face the
winner of today’s meeting between Spaniards  Feliciano Lopez ,
who’s seeded 30th, and Pablo Andujar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  