-- Ex-News Corp. Lawyer Said to Be Arrested in Hacking Probe
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-08-30T14:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/ex-news-corp-lawyer-said-to-be-arrested-in-hacking-probe.html
Tom Crone, the former top lawyer for
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit, was arrested by London police probing
phone-hacking at the now-defunct News of the World tabloid,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Crone was detained at his home and is being interviewed by
the  Metropolitan Police Service , said the person, who asked not
be identified because the matter isn’t public. The Met didn’t
identify Crone in a statement today about the arrest of a 60-
year-old man in the investigation, called Operation Weeting.  Crone emerged as a key figure in the phone-hacking scandal
last year when he and  Colin Myler , a former editor at the
newspaper, contradicted testimony given to Parliament by News
Corp. Deputy Chief Operating Officer  James Murdoch  regarding
when he found out about the extent of phone hacking at the
company’s U.K. unit, News International.  The investigation into the widespread interception of
mobile-phone voice mail by journalists is running parallel to
probes into computer hacking at News Corp.’s Times newspaper and
bribery of public officials by its Sun tabloid, the country’s
best-selling daily title. Police in London and Glasgow,
 Scotland , arrested two ex-News Corp. employees yesterday in the
related probes.  The  Guardian newspaper  reported Crone’s identity earlier.  Crone’s lawyer, Henri Brandman, didn’t immediately return a
call for comment. A receptionist said Brandman was at a police
interview and didn’t name the lawyer’s client.  60 Arrests  Crone was the News of the World’s attorney until it was
closed in July 2011 in response to the scandal. More than 60
arrests have resulted from the three probes that police began
last year after new evidence was uncovered in civil lawsuits by
victims. Investigations in 2006 and 2009 failed to reveal the
extent of the illegal practice.  The first charges in the hacking case were filed last month
against eight journalists, including former News International
Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks and former News of the
World editor  Andy Coulson , who later became a press adviser to
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron .  Crone, Myler and former News International Chairman  Les Hinton  gave misleading testimony to the parliamentary committee
probing phone hacking in 2009, a panel of lawmakers said in a
report in May. The committee is considering whether the trio
should be punished for contempt.  2009 Testimony  Myler and Crone, summoned before the parliamentary
committee as the scandal peaked last year, denied having misled
it in 2009 when they said they didn’t know that phone-hacking
went beyond a single reporter jailed for the practice in 2007.
Evidence sent to the panel later showed both men had been
informed about such claims. When James Murdoch told the
committee that Crone and Myler had kept evidence from him, they
replied that they had showed it to him.  News International spokeswoman  Daisy Dunlop  declined to
comment on today’s arrest.  Separately, Judge Brian Leveson, who is overseeing a media-
ethics inquiry spawned by the scandals, complained in a letter
to U.K. newspapers today about their reporting of details
related to his upcoming report. Letters he sent to witnesses
informing them they will be criticized in the report, to give
them a chance to respond, are private and shouldn’t have been
described in news articles yesterday, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  