-- Mexico Says Gaining From Competitive U.S. Manufacturers
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-08-30T16:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/mexico-says-gaining-from-competitive-u-s-manufacturers.html
Mexico is benefiting from ties to
“very competitive” U.S. manufacturers as low wages lure
producers discouraged by rising labor costs in Asia, Deputy
Finance Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez  said.  “Many companies are shifting their production capacity
back into the U.S.” and adding manufacturing jobs at a “good
pace,” he said in an interview in Moscow today, where he was
attending a meeting of officials from the 21-member Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation group.  Mexico is tied to the U.S. by the North American Free Trade
Agreement that bolstered cross-border production chains.
“Because of these linkages with the Mexican sector, we’re being
pulled somewhat by those dynamics,” Rodriguez said.  After trailing growth in Brazil during the past decade,
Mexico is poised to outperform  Latin America ’s biggest economy
for the second consecutive year in 2012. Manufacturers are
opening new plants in Mexico as wages in China rise and higher
 oil prices  increase transport costs for Asian companies looking
to tap consumers in the U.S., the world’s largest economy.  The peso fell 0.6 percent to 13.3879 per dollar as of 10:35
a.m. in Mexico City, the lowest level since July 26 on a closing
basis.  Auto Investments  While Mexico struggled after China’s accession to the  World
Trade Organization  a decade ago and during the financial crisis
in the U.S., its biggest trading partner, the country has
emerged stronger, according to Rodriguez. The nation won
automaker pledges from January through April to invest $5.3
billion.  “We’ve gained the ground we lost to the U.S. market early
on in the decade, and we’re hitting all-time highs in terms of
market share into the U.S.,” Rodriguez said. Mexico’s
traditional exports including cars, auto parts and appliances
are also reaching growing markets in Asia as Mexican producers
are better able to compete with China, Rodriguez said.  Russia, which will host the APEC summit in Vladivostok next
week, has set trade liberalization and closer regional ties
among priorities for the forum. Russia, the world’s largest
energy exporter, hopes to see Asia account for half of its
trade, taking Europe’s place now, First Deputy Prime Minister
 Igor Shuvalov  said this week.  “A re-balancing of economic dynamics around Asia, around
Latin America -- that is already the case when you look at the
direction of capital flows,” Rodriguez said. “That’s a
reality.”  Honda, GM  Automakers including  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  have announced investments needed to produce
an additional 1 million vehicles in Mexico within three years,
Carlos Guzman, head of ProMexico, the Mexican government’s
investment-promotion agency, said this week.  Pirelli & C. SpA (PC) 
and  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)  have said they plan to open new parts
plants focused on the  auto industry .  “China has been experiencing some natural wage
inflationary pressures, and at the same time they’ve had to
appreciate in nominal terms their currency,” Rodriguez said.
“This is part of the global balancing, and the global balancing
has operated somewhat in favor of  Mexico .”  Policy makers expect Mexico’s economy to grow 3.5 percent
to 4 percent this year as expansion in the U.S., which buys 80
percent of its exports, remains steady, Rodriguez said.
Inflation’s acceleration to more than 4 percent is
“temporary,” with price growth set to slow in a few months as
effects from a bird flu outbreak that hurt chicken and egg
supplies recede, according to Rodriguez.  “We tend to think that the inflation effects that we’ve
seen in Mexico are one-off price shocks, which will not
repeat,” he said. “Inflation will continue to trend down as we
move ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  