-- Lexmark Takeover Seen With Shares Cheapest in Industry: Real M&A
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-08-30T20:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/lexmark-takeover-seen-with-shares-cheapest-in-industry-real-m-a.html
Lexmark International Inc. (LXK)  is poised
to lure potential buyers with the least expensive technology
valuation in America as the printer company’s closure of its
inkjet operations spurs takeover speculation.  While Lexmark’s decision to close the inkjet business and
cut 13 percent of its workforce prompted a 14 percent rally on
Aug. 28, the company’s enterprise value is still 2.1 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
That’s less than every computer-related corporation in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and second-lowest overall in the
benchmark gauge for U.S. equities, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Before this week’s rally, Lexmark had fallen 43
percent in 2012,  worse  than 99 percent of S&P 500 companies.  Lexmark’s actions, which leave the Lexington, Kentucky-
based company with laser printers and a services division, show
the $1.5 billion corporation may be preparing itself for a sale,
 Raymond James  Financial Inc. said.  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  is the most
logical buyer and could snap up a business once valued at more
than $12 billion with only a year’s worth of free cash flow,
according to Loomis Sayles & Co.  “They’re starting to be an acquisition target,” Federico De Silva, an analyst at Gartner Inc. in  San Jose ,  California ,
said in a telephone interview. “The problem is they’re in an
industry that is maturing very rapidly, shrinking in many
segments, and they’re becoming too small of a player when
everybody else is diversifying.”  Customers Shift  Jerry Grasso, a spokesman for Lexmark, declined to comment
on whether the company is open to takeovers.  The shares  peaked  at $74.13 in December 2006, before the
worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression and a shift
toward digital, instead of printed, documents drove the stock
down to $21.07 yesterday. The company had seen its inkjet
business shrink before deciding to close it. Shipments dropped
to 2 million last year from 18.4 million in 2005 amid
competition from  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   Lexmark said on Aug. 28 that it plans to exit the inkjet
hardware business, eliminating about 1,700 jobs worldwide and
closing a manufacturing facility in the  Philippines  by the end
of 2015. The restructuring will save $95 million annually
starting that year, Lexmark said.  “This inkjet decision, while difficult, is necessary to
drive improved profitability and significant savings,” Lexmark
Chief Executive Officer Paul Rooke said this week on a
conference call. “We are focused on creating a higher-value
portfolio.”  ‘Psychological Positive’  The company also said it’s working with strategic advisers
on a potential sale of its inkjet-related technology.  “It’s a psychological positive,”  Brian Alexander , an
analyst with Raymond James in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , said in a
phone interview. “It shows management is not asleep at the
wheel, as some have suggested. They were fairly decisive in
exiting the business.”  Lexmark generated about 15 percent of revenue from inkjet
hardware and related services, according to an Aug. 28 report
from Chris Whitmore, a San Francisco-based analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG. Sales at Lexmark amounted to $4.17 billion in 2011,
down 0.6 percent from 2010 and 20 percent below the 2005 level.  The remaining business includes laser printers and a
division that manages corporate printing systems, including
maintenance and supplies. At current prices, a buyer could
purchase the company’s equity for 5.1 times profit.  Best Buy  Before the rally on Aug. 28, Lexmark’s price-earnings
 multiple  was 4.6, lower than every  S&P 500  stock except Best Buy
Co. and Cliffs Natural Resources Inc., data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Best Buy has attracted takeover interest from
its founder.  Today, Lexmark shares rose 2.2 percent to $21.53, posting
the biggest gain among technology companies in the S&P 500.  Lexmark’s printers and services would complement Xerox’s
offerings and give it more enterprise customers and scale, said
Tony Ursillo, a Boston-based technology analyst for Loomis
Sayles. Xerox could acquire Lexmark for about the $1.59 billion
it generated in free cash flow last year, he said.  “Xerox would be a reasonable suitor,” Ursillo said in a
phone interview. “They’re already essentially serving the same
markets with similar types of products and services.”  Hewlett-Packard, which got  almost a fifth  of its $127
billion in revenue last year from its printing and imaging unit,
could also be a buyer of Lexmark, said  Todd Lowenstein , a Los
Angeles-based fund manager for HighMark Capital Management Inc.,
which oversees $17.5 billion including Hewlett-Packard  shares .  Cash Flow  Karen Arena, a spokeswoman for Norwalk, Connecticut-based
Xerox, and Michael Thacker of  Palo Alto , California-based
Hewlett-Packard said their companies don’t comment on
speculation, when asked whether they are interested in Lexmark.  Lexmark’s free cash flow and balance sheet may even lure
the attention of private-equity firms, Lowenstein said. Its
operations generate cash, after deducting capital expenses,
amounting to 12 percent of its market capitalization, almost
twice the average of printing and imaging companies valued at $1
billion or more, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lexmark also had $275 million more cash than debt at the
end of the second quarter, the data show. The company said in
its Aug. 28 statement that it’s still planning to return more
than half of free  cash flow  to shareholders through dividends
and buybacks and that it will spend $100 million on share
repurchases through the end of the year.  “The balance sheet is sterling,” Lowenstein said in a
phone interview. “The cash flow characteristics are very
attractive even though the business is in decline.”  Short Selling  Short sellers increased bearish wagers against Lexmark
shares to an almost four-year high of 24 percent of shares
outstanding on Aug. 27, according to  data  compiled by Markit.
The technique involves the sale of borrowed stock in the hope of
profiting by buying the securities later at a lower price and
returning them to the shareholder.  Analysts are also  projecting  a decline. The average share-
price estimate among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is $18.50,
or 12 percent less than yesterday’s close.  “While we commend the actions taken to focus on growth
areas in software and solutions, these actions may take longer
to yield results,” Credit Suisse Group AG’s Alban Gashi wrote
in an Aug. 29 report, referring to Lexmark’s restructuring plan.
The company is about to enter a “difficult transition” in a
“challenged environment,” the analyst said.  Still, Lexmark has a shot at finding a suitor as it focuses
on laser printers by winding down its inkjet operations,
according to Lowenstein.  “If they can get their house in order and think about
selling or disposing of the inkjet business and really focus on
the laser side of the business, they could dress themselves up
and make themselves attractive” to a private-equity firm or
competitor, he said. “Either could make sense under the right
conditions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Robinson in  New York  at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  