-- Exxon, Shell Said Seeking Control of $46 Billion Kashagan
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-08-30T14:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/exxon-shell-said-seeking-control-of-46-billion-kashagan-field.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  are seeking bigger stakes and operating control in the
 Kashagan  oil field before starting to expand the $46 billion
project, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Exxon and Shell have warned they may quit the project
unless they gain more control in the venture and Kazakhstan’s
government agrees to extend the production-sharing contract for
20 years, the people said, declining to be identified as the
talks are confidential.  The Kashagan project in the  Caspian Sea , touted as the
world’s biggest discovery in four decades when found, is slated
to reach commercial oil output no later than June 2013. The
Kashagan partners, which also include  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Total SA (FP) , want
the second phase to widen the project’s profit margin after
costs for the first phase ballooned from early estimates.  Exxon and Shell may seek to buy out  ConocoPhillips (COP) ’s 8.4
percent stake in Kashagan, the two people said. ConocoPhillips
plans to sell $8 billion to $10 billion of assets by the middle
of 2013 and has said Kashagan may not offer a long-term,
strategic opportunity.  Leave Kashagan  Exxon and Shell will consider leaving the project if they
don’t reach an agreement on prolonging the Kashagan contract and
on operatorship, the two people said.  “Exxon Mobil is a long-term investor in Kazakhstan and
plans to remain a major investor in the country,” Charlie Engelmann, a spokesman for the Irving, Texas-based oil company,
said by e-mail, declining to comment further. Ross Whittam, a
London-based spokesman for Shell, declined to comment, as did an
Eni press officer who declined to be identified, citing company
policy.  China National Petroleum Corp., seeking to enter Kashagan,
has engaged  Citic Resources Holdings Ltd. (1205)  to hold talks with the
partners that may want to divest, Energy Intelligence Group
said, citing unidentified people. Citic would then sell the
stake on to state-owned CNPC, the newsletter said.  With cost overruns and multiple delays over the past
decade, the international partners agreed in 2008 to cut their
stakes in Kashagan, boosting KazMunaiGaz’s interest to 16.8
percent. That is equal to the holdings of Exxon, Shell, Total
and Eni.  Japan ’s  Inpex Corp. (1605)  is also a partner with 7.56
percent.  Kashagan Operator  The budget for the first phase is set to reach $46 billion
by the time the first oil is exported, a person with knowledge
of the matter said in January. An early cost estimate put the
tab at about $24 billion. While output is scheduled to start at
the end of the year, the project will reach commercial output no
later than June 2013, said Lyazzat Kiinov, head of state-run
KazMunaiGaz National Co., said in December, when he was deputy
oil minister.  At the time, Eni ceded operatorship of Kashagan to  North
Caspian Operating Co. , an umbrella for the partners, each of
which is responsible for specific tasks while jointly making
decisions on the development. NCOC put Eni in charge of delivery
of Kashagan’s first phase, with Shell responsible for developing
offshore facilities in the second phase, and Exxon overseeing
drilling, according to venture’s website.  Kazakhstan ’s biggest oilfield will produce 370,000 to
450,000 barrels of oil a day in the first phase, an amount that
may double in the second phase in 2018 or 2019, the government
said last year. The Oil Ministry oversees the Kashagan
production-sharing agreement, which allows the investors to
recoup costs before the government takes its share of oil
revenue. The agreement runs to 2041, according Eni’s website.  -- With assistance by Eduard Gismatullin in  London  and Edward
Klump in Houston. Editors: Torrey Clark, Stephen Cunningham  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  