-- Fannie Mae Executives Get Securities Lawsuits Narrowed
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-08-31T01:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/fannie-mae-executives-get-securities-lawsuits-narrowed.html
A lawsuit alleging ex- Fannie Mae (FNMA) 
Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Mudd  and other former officials
misled investors about the company’s exposure to subprime and
Alt-A mortgages was narrowed by a federal judge in New York.  Investors who bought  Fannie Mae  shares from November 2006
to September 2008, including a Massachusetts pension board, sued
the company as a group in  Manhattan  federal court. U.S. District
Judge Paul Crotty today ruled they could pursue securities-fraud
claims against Fannie Mae and its executives and dismissed
state-law claims and some related lawsuits by individual
investors. Crotty also allowed other aspects of the litigation
to continue.  Fannie Mae bought mortgages from lenders and issued
mortgage-backed securities. The U.S. government seized control
of Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , another mortgage-finance company,
in September 2008 after the biggest surge in mortgage defaults
in at least three decades threatened to topple the companies.  The judge also dismissed a suit against  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  that had been consolidated with the Fannie Mae litigation.
Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. alleged the bank misled investors
in its capacity as lead underwriter for the Fannie Mae
offerings, which Liberty purchased.  ‘Actionable Misstatements’  “Since Liberty failed to allege any actionable
misstatements contained in the offering circular, it cannot show
that Goldman made or supplied false statements to Liberty,”
Crotty said. The judge also dismissed claims against  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
that were consolidated with the Fannie Mae litigation.  The judge rejected bids by Fannie Mae, Mudd and Enrico Dallavecchia, Fannie Mae’s former chief risk officer, to dismiss
securities-fraud claims against them stemming from statements
about the company’s subprime exposure.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the lawsuit. James Wareham, a
lawyer for Mudd, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the ruling. Andrew Levander, a lawyer for
Dallavecchia, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail left at his
office after business hours.  Andrew Wilson , a spokesman for
Washington-based Fannie Mae, declined to comment.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, declined to immediately comment on the lawsuit.  Crotty said that while Fannie Mae had argued the plaintiffs
were improperly relying on a “fraud by hindsight theory,” he
said it wouldn’t defeat the plaintiffs’ allegations of
misrepresentation and omissions that were allegedly misleading
at the time they were made.  ‘Ultimate Authority’  The judge ruled that the plaintiffs in the case stated a
claim for statements Mudd and Dallavecchia made in conference
calls. He said a question of fact exists as to whether
Dallavecchia had “ultimate authority” over misstatements or
approved misstatements contained in company filings.  “Even if Dallavecchia’s statements were literally true (a
proposition that may be doubted) he can still be found liable
for the overall misleading impression his statements created,”
Crotty said.  Crotty did grant a motion by Fannie Mae, Mudd and
Dallavecchia to dismiss state-law claims, citing the federal
Securities Litigation Uniform Standards Act of 1998.  Earlier this month, Crotty said Mudd and Dallavecchia must
face a suit filed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
that accuses him of misleading investors about the company’s
exposure to risky loans.  The case is In Re Fannie Mae 2008 Securities Litigation,
09-mdl-2013, Southern District of  New York , (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  