-- Farm Exports Seen Rising as Drought Pushes Up U.S. Crop Prices
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-08-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/farm-exports-seen-rising-as-drought-pushes-up-crop-prices-1-.html
U.S. farm exports will rise 5.1
percent to a record in the next fiscal year as overseas buyers
pay more for tight supplies of crops damaged by the worst
drought in 50 years, the government forecast.  The value of shipments will increase to $143.5 billion in
the year starting Oct. 1 from a revised $136.5 billion in the
current year, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said yesterday
in a quarterly  report . Export revenue from corn, the biggest
U.S. crop, will rise 3.4 percent to $12.1 billion while volume
declines as the drought pushes grain prices to records.  “Grain and feed exports are expected up, driven largely by
higher wheat volume and value, but also supported by higher corn
unit values,” the USDA said in  the report . “Exports of
livestock, poultry, and dairy products are forecast marginally
lower as declines in dairy, pork, and poultry outweigh growth in
beef.”  Since mid-June, corn futures have surged 60 percent as the
dry conditions wither crops. Soybeans are up 34 percent and
wheat 44 percent. The drought may push food inflation as high as
4 percent in 2013, the USDA said last week. The department has
declared  natural disasters  in more than 1,800 counties in 35
states, more than half of the country’s total, mostly because of
the dry, hot weather.  Projected Record  The projected value of next year’s exports would surpass
the record of 2011, when U.S. shippers including Cargill Inc.,
 Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  and  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  sold products worth
$137.4 billion.  Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said the forecast level
of exports would be an “historic achievement” for America’s
farmers, ranchers and agribusinesses.  “Even with tough odds due to extreme weather, U.S.
agriculture is now poised for three consecutive years of record
exports,” he said, adding that the sector is on pace to achieve
President  Barack Obama ’s goal of doubling overseas shipments by
the end of 2014. In 2007, the year before Obama was elected,
exports totaled $82.2 billion.  Sales of soybeans, the second-biggest U.S. crop and one
that has the highest export value, are projected to climb 4.2
percent to $19.9 billion. Wheat, with higher volume sales at
higher prices, will have receipts of $12.3 billion, a 35 percent
gain, the USDA said.  Demand High  Demand for grains, oilseeds and fruits and vegetables
remains high, and sales at higher prices will make up for
transactions that won’t occur because of the drought, said
Daniel Sumner, a professor of agricultural and resource
economics at the University of California-Davis.  “Some other markets may cut back, but the Koreans, the
Japanese have been quite inelastic in their demand,” he said in
an interview.  Canada  will be the biggest U.S. trading partner in the next
fiscal year, with estimated purchases of $21 billion, followed
by  China , excluding  Hong Kong , at $20.5 billion, the USDA said.
This year, China will be the biggest buyer, at $21 billion,
followed by Canada, the department said.  Livestock, poultry and dairy exports will reach $29.9
billion next year, down 0.7 percent, the USDA said.  Fueled by high prices, U.S. net  farm income  may reach an
all-time high of  $122.2 billion  in calendar year 2012, the USDA
said Aug 28.  U.S. agricultural imports are projected to reach a record
$117 billion next year, up 9.9 percent from this year, according
to yesterday’s report.  The department will update its agricultural trade estimates
in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  