-- Fed’s Plosser Says Cost of More Bond Buying Outweighs Benefits
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-08-30T20:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/fed-s-plosser-says-cost-of-more-bond-buying-outweighs-benefits.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the potential risks involved with
another round of large-scale bond buying outweigh the benefits.  “I don’t think it really meets the cost-benefit test right
now,” Plosser, who doesn’t have a vote on policy this year,
said today in a CNBC interview. “It’s possible they could bring
down  interest rates  somewhat, but we have to remember it’s not
that simple given the headwinds that the economy faces.”  The Fed has expanded its  balance sheet  with two rounds of
bond purchases, known as quantitative easing. In the first,
starting in 2008, the Fed bought $1.25 trillion of mortgage-
backed securities, $175 billion of federal agency debt and $300
billion of Treasuries. In the second round, announced in
November 2010, the Fed bought $600 billion of Treasuries.  “Increasing accommodation creates risks, and we need to
balance those,” Plosser said in an interview from the Fed
symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . “We have to take into
account the size of the risk we are taking, and the size of the
balance sheet is a risk.”  Uncertainty caused by the U.S. elections and Europe’s debt
crisis are making consumers and businesses reluctant to spend
and invest, and “monetary policy isn’t going to remove those
headwinds,” Plosser said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who speaks on monetary policy
tomorrow in Jackson Hole, and the  Federal Open Market Committee 
will discuss at the next meeting Sept. 12-13 how to boost
economic growth that’s too weak to cut unemployment. Policy
makers said at the last meeting that more action may be needed
“fairly soon” without evidence of a “substantial and
sustainable” recovery, the minutes released Aug. 22 showed.  Plosser, 63, became president of the reserve bank in August
2006 following a career in academia. He was previously dean of
the graduate school of business administration at the University
of Rochester in  New York  State. The Philadelphia Fed will get
its next vote on policy decisions in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  