-- Federer Opponents Ride Seamstress Needle to Endorsement Dollars
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-08-30T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/federer-opponents-ride-seamstress-needle-to-endorsement-dollars.html
Jennifer Bentley and her sewing
machine help players at the  U.S. Open  look neat and trim, as
well as allowing bottom-rung competitors to pick up some extra
money with last-minute advertising deals.  Bentley sews patches on uniforms bearing the logo of
companies including  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) ,
sometimes just minutes before the player is due to take the
court at the National Tennis Center in New York.  Most of the athletes she sees are lesser-known, lower-
ranked players who draw marquee opponents such as defending
champion Novak Djokovic, French Open winner  Maria Sharapova  and
top-seeded  Roger Federer  in one of the Grand Slam tournament’s
main arenas.  “You have to play a big court, a show court,” said Lukas
Lacko, the No. 54 player on the ATP World Tour, who said he
picked up $2,000 from Starwood and its Westin hotel brand in a
patch deal the day before his first-round match against  James Blake  of the U.S in the Grandstand. “It has to be on TV.”  The 24-hour lead time for Lacko was welcomed by Bentley, a
freelancer from Croton-on-Hudson, New York, whose Elna sewing
machine sits in what she described as a closet in the women’s
locker room.  “I can do the job in 10 minutes,” Bentley, who turns 35
tomorrow and is paid an hourly wage that she declined to reveal,
said in an interview. “But I’d rather not have to, especially
if an anxious player is watching me.”  No player has shown more sponsor-patch anxiety than Mike Russell, according to Tim Curry, a spokesman for the U.S. Tennis
Association, which runs the tournament.  Russell was so pressed for time before his match a year ago
against 2003 champion  Andy Roddick  that he tried to staple the
patch to his shirt, Curry said.  Long-Term Deals  Federer, 31, makes about $51.5 million annually in prize
money and endorsements, according to  Sports Illustrated . He and
other highly ranked players have long-term deals and permanently
wear sponsor logos on their uniforms. Those at the bottom of the
sport often play in shirts and shorts bearing only the
manufacturer’s name, if that.  Lacko, 24, of Slovakia, was among five players with
Starwood patch deals at this year’s Open, according to Bob
Jacobs, vice president of brand management  North America  for
Westin Hotels & Resorts. Also on the list were Rhyne Williams,
21, and  Brian Baker , 27, of the U.S.; Melinda Czink, 29, of
 Hungary , and Paolo Lorenzi, 30, of  Italy .  Jacobs wouldn’t say how much the players were paid. Based
on the price quoted by Lacko, patch sponsors are getting a good
deal, according to Eric Wright, president and executive director
of research for Joyce Julius & Associates, an  Ann Arbor ,
Michigan-based sports evaluation company.  ‘Guaranteed Exposure’  “At the entry price, this is as close to guaranteed
exposure as they’re going to get,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Patch deals for one-off matches that take place early in
the tournament are worth between $2,000 and $3,500, according to
Kelly Wolf, the agent for Baker and Williams.  “If it gets to be the end of the tournament, it’s for sure
five figures,” Wolf said in an interview, declining to say how
much her clients are being paid.  After securing a full-tournament deal for Baker and a one-
match contract for Williams, she found a  New York  embroiderer to
add the Westin logo to Baker’s shirts and sewed Williams’s patch
on herself.  Williams, the ATP’s 289th-ranked player, reached the Open’s
main draw through the qualifying tournament with about $23,000
in prize money this year.  Endorsement Details  He said Wolf handled all the endorsement details before his
match with Roddick in 23,000-seat Arthur Ashe Stadium two days
ago.  “It was right before the match, and it was just, ‘Get out
there,’” said Williams, adding he didn’t know how much he was
paid. “I guess it was just a way to get a few extra bucks. It
helps.”  Only Baker among the Starwood players reached the second
round. He did a Tennis Channel interview after his win yesterday
with the Westin embroidering visible on television throughout
the conversation. He tried to display the logo again for an
interview with ESPN, but the network had him face a different
direction, taking it out of the shot.  “Westin has been good to me the last couple of weeks,”
Baker said in an interview. “I was trying to give them a little
bit of love.”  Early Exits  Williams lost to Roddick, Czink to Sharapova, Lorenzi to
Djokovic and Lacko to Blake, an American playing his 12th Open
who reached the quarterfinals in 2005 and 2006. Baker, who
advanced to the fourth round at Wimbledon this year after
missing four seasons with injuries, beat Jan Hajek of the Czech
Republic 6-3, 6-4, 6-2 yesterday.  Scott Becher, an executive vice president for Z Sports &
Entertainment, a division of  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based
Zimmerman Advertising, said in a telephone interview that the
short-term agreements make sense for both parties.  “It helps companies get unique visibility that’s immersed
in the game and it helps lesser-known players both make a couple
of dollars and build relationships that are otherwise difficult
for them,” he said. “But there’s no authentic relationship.
It’s just a billboard.”  Bentley sews patches on as many as eight shirts per player,
so they can change out of sweat-soaked tops during their
matches. She’s mindful of USTA rules on the size and shape of
patches, often referring to a cheat sheet that includes outlines
of what’s permissible.  “I don’t want anyone to get fined because of me,” she
said.  Patch Position  Players can be picky when it comes to patch positioning,
according to Bentley. Some demand that it face forward on the
bicep, where television cameras can get a clearer shot.  “I’m guessing it comes from the advertiser,” she said.
The seamstress said she also does uniform alterations, such as
straightening hems.  Through the first two days of the two-week tournament,
Bentley said, she sewed on patches for about 10 players,
including a woman who only identified herself in the requested
paperwork as the occupier of locker No. 53.  It turned out to be 20-year-old Simona Halep of  Romania ,
the No. 53 player on the women’s WTA tour, whose patch partners
were Deesse, a Swiss cosmetics company, and Sturdza Baring, a
Swiss bank. Halep lost 6-1, 6-1 to 19th-seeded  Nadia Petrova  of
 Russia  in yesterday’s second round.  Bentley said she watches the matches at home, and talks
with her mother by phone about players whose uniforms carry her
handiwork. So far, she said, none of her patches have come
loose.  “That would be my worst nightmare,” Bentley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  