-- Finland to Back Bailouts Needed to Save Euro, Katainen Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-08-31T11:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/finland-will-back-bailouts-needed-to-save-euro-katainen-says.html
Finland will throw its support
behind the bailouts that are necessary to save the 17-nation
currency bloc from splintering, while standing firm on its
opposition to common bonds, Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said.  Rescues “are difficult in all countries, Finland is no
exception,” Katainen said in an interview in Helsinki
yesterday. “We’ve taken part in all bailouts and we will
continue to act responsibly. We’re looking for ways that don’t
increase joint liability, but we do want to resolve the
crisis.”  Finland, which has sided with  Germany  in its opposition to
joint liability, has demanded collateral against emergency loans
that don’t give it senior creditor status. Katainen’s
government, which has sought to defend the cost of bailouts to
voters at home, has insisted that rescue loans come with strict
terms such as austerity and burden sharing for bondholders.  Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  are relying on financial
rescues amid surging bond yields, while  Spain  has requested as
much as 100 billion euros ($126 billion) to keep its banking
industry afloat. Spain and  Italy , the countries currently most
vulnerable to contagion from the almost three-year-old crisis,
have yet to decide whether to seek sovereign bailouts.  The euro rose 0.7 percent against the dollar to 1.2588 as
of 12:51 p.m. in  London , its highest since July 4.  Euro-Skeptic  Finland’s collateral demands, and its record of complying
with the European Union’s 3 percent deficit rule since 1996,
have left it the only Aaa rated euro nation at Moody’s Investors
Service with a stable outlook. Finns showed their reluctance to
continue helping indebted euro peers when they gave the euro-
skeptic “The Finns” party 19 percent of the vote in the 2011
election, making it the country’s third-biggest group.  Forty-nine percent of Finns don’t want their government to
contribute to more bailouts, according to a Helsingin Sanomat
poll this month, up from 39 percent in July. Sixty-three percent
say Finland should keep the euro. The poll, conducted by TNS
Gallup Oy, had a margin of error of three percentage points.  Finland is working in several ways to end the crisis,
Katainen said. Nations could sell bonds backed by assets to help
lower borrowing costs, he said.  “We’ve been active in seeking solutions to the Italian and
Spanish situations,” Katainen said, referring to talks with his
Italian counterpart  Mario Monti  on how to develop the monetary
union. Katainen will also meet Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  on Sept. 11, the Spanish government said on Aug. 24.  Buying Bonds  The  European Central Bank  is working to design a bond-
buying plan that will help countries lower their borrowing costs
if they accept economic-reform conditions and if  Europe ’s
bailout fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, buys
their debt on the primary market.  ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said the
 International Monetary Fund  should be involved in setting
conditions for countries applying for the bond-buying aid.
Katainen declined to comment on the ECB’s plans, citing the
bank’s independence and saying it has “acted well.”  Finland  sold a new 10-year benchmark bond on Aug. 28 at a
yield of 1.625 percent, down from 3.5 percent in February last
year. The latest issue attracted bids for more than twice the 4
billion euros sold.  Haven Economy  “The high demand reflects confidence in the Finnish
economy,” Deputy Director Anu Sammallahti at the Treasury in
Helsinki said after the bond was priced. “Investors see Finland
as a safe haven.”  The government yesterday refused plans that might force it
to shoulder the burden of other countries’ debts, saying it
opposes EU proposals to force national governments to share
resources set aside for bank bailouts, according to a statement
by the  Finance Ministry . Even so, other designs, including
setting up the funds, are “very useful,” the ministry said.  The government also said it had reached an agreement on a
budget that will narrow its deficit to 1 percent of gross
domestic product next year as it raises taxes and cuts spending.  “We’re looking for a solution,” Katainen said. “We just
don’t accept cutting corners, which pooling liabilities would
be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  