-- Finland Sees 2013 Deficit Narrowing to 1% as Taxes Raised
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-08-30T11:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/finland-sees-2013-deficit-narrowing-to-1-as-taxes-raised-1-.html
Finland’s six government parties
struck an agreement on next year’s budget, narrowing the deficit
to about 1 percent of gross domestic product as the northernmost
euro country raises taxes and cuts spending.  “We will stop debt growth by 2015,” Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  told reporters in Helsinki. “Unfortunately it entails
spending cuts and tax increases. Still, that’s what we’ve agreed
and that’s what we’ll do. It will have a positive impact on
confidence within Finland and abroad.”  Debt will rise to 96 billion euros ($120 billion), or 47
percent of GDP, according to a statement handed out to reporters
in Helsinki. The  Finance Ministry  in June projected a deficit of
1 percent next year and 1.6 percent this year.  Early indicators have shown the economy probably contracted
in the second quarter as the nation fights off slowing European
demand. Finland has also enacted tax increases and spending cuts
to keep deficits in line and insisted on collateral in exchange
for helping to bail out fellow euro members Spain and Greece,
limiting the burden on taxpayers.  Tax Increase  The country has kept its  budget deficit  within European
Union rules since 1996 even as the economy shrank 8.5 percent in
2009 following the outbreak of the global financial crisis. It’s
the only euro member to have retained its Aaa  credit rating  with
a stable outlook at Moody’s Investors Service, after the rating
company on July 23 cut the outlooks on the top ratings of
 Germany , the Netherlands and Luxembourg.  Finland will spend 940 million euros next year on export
financing to boost sales abroad. Tax increases, including a 1
percentage point increase in the value added tax, will raise an
extra 1.3 billion euros for state coffers. The government will
also establish a bank tax from next year. The measures are in
line with the framework from 2013 to 2016 agreed on last year.  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  today forecast that the economy,
home to mobile-phone maker  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , will grow 1 percent this
year. The expansion may accelerate to 2 percent next year, down
from a 2.5 percent prediction in May, the bank said.  The government’s budget proposal will be sent to parliament
on Sept. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  