-- First Solar Stops Installation at Agua Caliente Project
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-08-30T21:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/first-solar-stops-installation-at-agua-caliente-project.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the biggest U.S.
solar manufacturer, halted panel deliveries to the world’s
largest photovoltaic power plant, which it’s building in
 Arizona , because construction is ahead of schedule and the
company must slow down to meet contractual milestones.  First Solar won’t ship additional modules until January to
the $1.8 billion Agua Caliente project and won’t install panels
currently sitting on the ground at the site, said Fred Pech, the
power plant’s construction manager. The solar farm is scheduled
for completion at the end of 2013 and is 85 percent built.  The company, based in Tempe, Arizona, accelerated
construction on Agua Caliente this year to use panels it
produced as far away as Germany and  Malaysia  amid a global glut.
Now it’s diverting shipments to other projects to prevent
inventories from piling up, said Aaron Chew, an analyst at Maxim
Group LLC in New York.  First Solar delivered panels to the project “because it
was more profitable,” Chew said today in a telephone interview.
“They overdid Agua Caliente.” Expanding its focus on power
plants helped make First Solar the only profitable  solar company 
in the Bloomberg Industries Global Large Solar Index in the the
second quarter.  The shutdown probably won’t affect First Solar’s earnings
this year, Chew said. “However, it does highlight the extent to
which they’re pulling things forward, with bigger risks in 2013
and 2014.”  The decision to wind down installation for this year may be
“related to contractors and construction crew, perhaps minimum
number of hours,” Chew said.  First Solar shares fell 19 percent to $19.67 at the close
in  New York .  Last Module  “We installed the last module for block 10 on Monday,”
Pech said in an interview yesterday a the plant, located on
2,400 acres of desert about 120 miles (193 kilometers) west of
Phoenix. There are two more blocks of panels planned for the
site and “we could be done by the end of this year, but we’re
way ahead of schedule.”  Dozens of boxes of unused panels are piled up at the site,
covered in blue tarps to prevent degradation over the next four
months while First Solar waits to resume installation.  The company has shifted panel deliveries to other solar
projects, Ted Meyer, a spokesman, said in an e-mail today. There
are about 200 workers at the Agua Caliente site doing work other
than installing panels.  Biggest Plant  With 85 percent of its panels installed, Agua Caliente has
about 247 megawatts of capacity, making it the the world’s
largest operating solar farm.  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s Pacific Gas &
Electric Co. is buying the power under a 25-year agreement.  The power plant was generating 249 megawatts of electricity
yesterday at 11:30 a.m. local time and its output has reached as
much as 251.3 megawatts under ideal sunlight conditions, Pech
said.  The project received a $967 million loan guarantee from the
U.S Energy Department in August 2011 and was expected to create
400 construction jobs and 10 permanent positions, according to
the agency’s  website . Damien LaVera, an agency spokesman, said
the guarantee doesn’t include any specific requirements
regarding construction or employment.  The plant is owned by  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  and MidAmerican
Energy Holdings Co. Lori Neuman, an NRG spokeswoman, and  Ann
Thelen , a MidAmerican spokeswoman, didn’t return phone calls
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  