-- Food Supply Adequate to Forestall Unrest, World Bank Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-08-30T15:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/food-supply-adequate-to-forestall-price-crisis-world-bank-says.html
Further weather disruptions or
rising energy expenses could increase grain costs already at a
record, while current supplies may be ample enough to forestall
unrest caused by high food prices, the  World Bank  said.  The worst U.S. drought since the 1950s sparked a 10 percent
gain in the  World Bank ’s Food Price Index in July, the
organization said today in a monthly  report . Corn and soybean
prices last month exceeded records in 2008, when food riots
erupted in African and Middle Eastern countries. While drought
in the former Soviet Union and weak monsoon rains in  India  are
contributing to crop concerns, stable rice prices argue against
a crisis situation, the bank said. That could change should
energy costs increase or bad weather persist.  “World Bank experts do not currently foresee a repeat of
2008,” the multinational organization said in its report. Bans
on exports, continued dry weather, poor harvests in South
America or higher energy costs would worsen the situation, the
bank said. “The jury is still out, for now.”  U.S. consumers may pay 3 percent to 4 percent more for food
next year, a half-percentage point more than this year, as the
effects of the drought works its way onto store shelves, the
USDA said last week. Corn and soybean futures reached record
highs this month on the Chicago Board of Trade, and wheat in
July touched its highest since 2008 as crop conditions worsened
in the U.S. Midwest and Great Plains.  Food Riots  More than 60 food riots erupted worldwide from 2007 to 2009
when global costs reached what were then all-time highs,
according to the U.S. State Department. A second food-price run-
up that set  records  in 2011 prompted demonstrations and violence
in  Mozambique , Algeria,  Uganda  and elsewhere, and was cited
contributing to the Arab Spring revolution in Egypt.  Higher commodity prices affect everything from meat
purchased by  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  to the grain bought by  General
Mills Inc. (GIS)  to the sweeteners used by  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  The Middle
East and North and Sub-Saharan Africa may be at the greatest
risk of a global shock because of their reliance on imports to
feed their populations, the bank said in the report.  Global nutrition costs rose  6.2 percent  last month, the
biggest increase since November 2009, the  United Nations  said
earlier this month.  From April through June, white corn sold in Mozambique more
than doubled in price, the World Bank said, citing examples of
wide swings in food costs. Wheat in  South Africa  soared 27
percent during the same period, while rice sold in Tanzania fell
30 percent.  The U.S. drought may have a bigger impact on people in
poorer countries that import food than on American consumers,
according to Johanna Nesseth Tuttle, director for  food security 
at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington.  “Poor and middle-income countries rely on the stability
the U.S. harvests bring to global food prices, so they suffer
more when our production drops,” she said in an e-mail last
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  