-- Food to Eat, Feed Animals Single Largest Use of Water, Film Says
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-08-30T18:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/food-to-eat-feed-animals-single-largest-use-of-water-film-says.html
Growing food to consume and to feed
animals that people eat is the largest use of Earth’s fresh
water supply yet almost a third of the world’s food is lost or
wasted before it reaches consumers’ mouths, according to a short
film launched at  World Water Week  in  Stockholm .  “ Taste the Waste of Water ” by Germany’s Valentin Thurn
was shown at the Stockholm event, which is focused this year on
how to use less water to feed the planet and wraps up tomorrow.  McKinsey & Co. estimates the global economy wastes $252
billion annually on food that’s grown, processed or shipped and
never eaten, mainly in  Europe  and  North America . That’s a third
of the world’s supply, or 1.3 billion tons of food that could
feed the hungry. “What kind of corporate management would
accept 33 percent in annual losses,” the film narrator asks.  Throwing away a single apple in effect means wasting as
much water as flushing the average toilet seven times. Tossing
out a liter (quart) of milk is equivalent to wasting 1,000
liters of water needed for the cows and to grow their feed.
Overall it takes 2,400 liters of water through the production
and supply chain to make a hamburger, said the film, which
relies on data from groups including the  United Nations ’  Food
and Agriculture Organization  and the consultant McKinsey.  Curbing  food waste  would also reduce greenhouse-gas
emissions from the amount of energy wasted growing food that’s
never eaten, the film said. Cutting food waste by 50 percent
would have the same effect on global warming as taking half the
world’s cars off the roads.  Among the film’s prescriptions for reducing the amount of
food wasted is improved access to markets for developing-world
farmers, reviewing sell-by dates on packaged foods so less gets
thrown out and coaxing people in the developed world to eat
less.  There are more people around the world who overeat than who
starve, the film said. “From field to fork, our food supply
chain has lots of leaks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  