-- Forint Weakens Third Day to Lowest in a Month on Growth Concern
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-08-30T15:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/forint-weakens-third-day-to-lowest-in-a-month-on-growth-concern.html
The forint dropped to the lowest in
a month as data from  Asia  to  Poland  added to evidence global
growth is slowing two days after Hungary’s central bank cut the
European Union’s highest benchmark rate.  Hungary’s currency depreciated 0.7 percent to 285.56 per
euro by 4:58 p.m. in Budapest, extending its slide to 2.8
percent since the Magyar Nemzeti Bank unexpectedly reduced its
 base rate  by 25 basis points to 6.75 percent. Yields on the
government’s benchmark five-year notes were little changed at
7.112 percent.  Poland’s gross domestic product grew 2.4 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the Warsaw-based  Central
Statistical Office  said today, below the 2.9 percent median
estimate of 34 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Japan’s retail
sales fell 0.8 percent in July from a year earlier, more than
economists forecast. In  South Korea , confidence among
manufacturers stayed near the lowest level since the global
financial crisis.  “The forint is weakening for a third day on the back of
Tuesday’s interest rate cut,” Zsolt Kondrat, a Budapest-based
analyst at Bayerische Landesbank’s MKB Bank unit, wrote in an e-
mailed note today. Kondrat also cited concern over the Japanese
retail sales data and a downturn in sentiment in eastern
 Europe ’s markets.  Hungary’s government said this week it is considering a cut
in value-added tax on basic food items and may buy local units
of EON AG, Germany’s biggest utility, to help cut food and
energy costs for households. The comments added to the forint’s
slide as the potential moves may threaten the nation’s budget
goals, according to Commerzbank AG.  “The market jitters haven’t been only caused by the
interest rate cut but also by the concern that the government
won’t be able to make up for the lost revenue and additional
expenditure for these measures,” Peter Karsai, a Budapest-based
trader at the bank, wrote by e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  