-- Former Champions PSV, Liverpool, Inter Advance in Europa League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-30T23:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/former-champions-psv-liverpool-inter-advance-in-europa-league.html
Former champion  PSV Eindhoven  rolled
into the group stage of soccer’s Europa League, where it’s
joined by three-time champions Liverpool and  Inter Milan .  PSV, the 1978 winner of Europe’s second-tier club
competition, routed FK Zeta of Montenegro 9-0 last night to
complete a 14-0 win over the two-match qualifying playoff. Tim
Matavz and Georginio Wijnaldum each scored three goals for the
Dutch club.  Liverpool beat Hearts 2-1 after earning a 1-1 home draw on
 Luis Suarez ’s 88th-minute score, while Inter advanced 4-2 over
Vaslui after a 2-2 tie in Milan. Liverpool and Inter share the
record of three titles in the competition with Juventus.  “They were two very tough games and were never going to be
easy, but I thought the attitude and commitment of the players
was excellent,” Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  said in
comments on his team’s website. “We showed our spirit towards
the end when we went behind.”  The 31 playoff winners join the seven automatic qualifiers,
including defending champion Atletico Madrid and Tottenham, and
the 10 playoff losers from the elite  Champions League , in the
48-team group stage. The draw is scheduled for today in Monaco.  Haris Vuckic scored as Newcastle beat Atromitos 1-0 last
night to complete a 2-1 series win, Libor Kozak scored twice as
Lazio beat Mura 3-1 to advance 5-1.  Athletic Bilbao , last year’s
runner-up, also moved into the group stage, along with
Marseille, Hannover and Sporting Lisbon.  FC Twente advanced 5-4 in extra time over Bursaspor,
Videoton beat Trabzonspor 4-2 in a penalty shootout after a pair
of goalless games, and Viktoria Plzen and Partizan Belgrade won
by scoring more away goals after both tied in their series.  Former champions Feyenoord and CSKA Moscow were eliminated
by  Sparta Prague  and AIK, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  