-- Fortescue CEO Expects to Complete Northstar Talks in Near Future
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-08-30T07:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/fortescue-ceo-expects-to-complete-northstar-talks-in-near-future.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ,
Australia’s third-biggest  iron ore  producer, expects to complete
talks with potential partners soon to develop the Northstar
magnetite project amid falling prices of the raw material.  “We’ve been in discussions with a number of parties and
we’re hopeful of those being finalized in the near future,”
Neville Power, chief executive officer of the Perth-based
company, said in an interview in Sydney.  Fortescue, the biggest seller of mining junk bonds with
$7.04 billion of notes outstanding, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg, is under pressure from iron ore prices slumping to a
three-year low as demand in China slows. The company is spending
$9 billion to almost triple production by the middle of next
year at its operations in Western Australia’s Pilbara region,
expanding port facilities, mine sites and rail lines.  Northstar is adjacent to Fortescue’s Glacier Valley
magnetite deposit with Baosteel Group Corp., China’s second-
largest steelmaker. Fortescue has had inquiries from Chinese
 steel mills  as well as companies from  India  and the  Middle East ,
Power said in January.  “It’s not something we see ourselves doing with our own
balance sheet,” Power told reporters today after a presentation.
“There are opportunities to bring in strategic partners to
change the funding model.”  Asset Sales  The company also is considering selling some of its assets
such as power stations, Power said. He reiterated today
Fortescue has no plan to raise additional debt, although it has
the ability.  “We’re not entertaining fire sales or anything like
that,” he said.  The price of  iron ore  for immediate delivery to the Chinese
port of Tianjin, a benchmark for  Asia , has declined about 50
percent over the past year. It has slumped 33 percent since the
end of June to $90.30 a metric ton yesterday.  “We see very volatile prices at the moment,” Power said.
“That will settle down in the next month or two, and return to
$120 plus right through the balance of the year.”  Fortescue needs iron ore prices to average above $115 a ton
to avoid refinancing its first major debt repayment of $2.4
billion in 2015, Credit Suisse AG resources analysts Matthew Hope and  Michael Slifirski  wrote in a Aug. 27 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  