-- FTC Said Poised to Finish Google Antitrust Probe in Weeks
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-08-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/ftc-said-poised-to-finish-google-antitrust-probe-in-weeks.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is
pushing to conclude its antitrust investigation of  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
in the coming weeks, four people familiar with the matter said.  The agency’s staff will present its findings to the FTC’s
five commissioners by mid-September and probably recommend
whether to sue the company for hurting competition through its
Internet dominance or suggest a basis for settlement, said the
people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the
progress of the probe is confidential.  Google, the operator of the world’s largest search engine,
has been engaged in talks with the European Commission since May
when Chief Competition Officer  Joaquin Almunia  asked the company
to propose solutions to the commission’s concerns. Competitors
have complained that Google promotes its own specialist search
services, copies rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews, and
stifles competition in the advertising industry through its
agreements with websites and software developers.  Details of what Google has proposed to the EU haven’t been
disclosed. That proposal includes an offer to make limited
changes to search rankings, including whether Google services
are ranked above those of competitors and warning users if
Google products have been given precedence, one of the people
said.  The FTC is aware of what Google has proposed to its
European counterparts, three of the people said. The agency
would regard a Google proposal, or even overtures to open talks,
as premature until it has decided whether the company has
violated the law, the people said.  ‘Global Settlement’  “A global settlement would wrap everything up a lot more
cleanly for everybody,” said Jeffrey Jacobovitz, an antitrust
litigator with McCarthy, Sweeney & Harkaway PC in Washington.  Jill Hazelbaker , a spokeswoman for  Mountain View ,
California-based Google, didn’t respond to e-mails and a phone
call seeking comment on the status of the FTC probe. Cecelia
Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Google has come under growing pressure from global
regulators examining whether the company is thwarting
competition in the market for web searches. In addition to the
FTC and EU probes, antitrust agencies in  Argentina  and  South
Korea  are also scrutinizing the company.  Google disclosed on June 24, 2011, that the FTC had begun a
review of its business practices. The investigation is focused
on whether Google unfairly ranks search results to favor its own
businesses and increases advertising rates for competitors,
other people familiar with the investigation have said.  The agency also is examining whether the company is using
its control of the Android mobile operating system to discourage
smartphone and device makers from using rivals’ applications,
those people have said.  Chairman’s Schedule  FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  said in an interview in June
that he expects to resolve the Google antitrust investigation
“certainly by the end of the year.”  The European Union’s antitrust agency in 2010 began
investigating claims Google discriminated against other services
in its search results and stopped some websites from accepting
competitors’ ads.  Last month, the European Commission said it had reached a
level of understanding with Google and called the company’s
proposals a “good” basis for further talks.  “Given that Google is a global player and both the FTC and
EC are investigating it and likely coordinating negotiations, it
would make sense for Google and both agencies to try to work
toward a global settlement,” said Sharis Pozen, former acting
chief of the antitrust division of the U.S. Justice Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington 
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 