-- Game Developer Wants to Teach Warring Politicians How to Deal
-- B y   B r e n d a n   G r e e l e y
-- 2012-08-30T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/game-developer-wants-to-teach-warring-politicians-how-to-deal.html
One Saturday morning last year,
about 90 leaders of neighborhood associations in  San Jose ,
 California  gathered in small groups to play a game.  Each person had a roll of fake money, from which he or she
could pay for city services like police or libraries. Each group
lacked enough money to cover the city’s budget.  “We intentionally, just like reality, gave them far less
money to buy the things they wanted,” says Kip Harkness, San
Jose’s senior project manager. By morning’s end, all the groups
had agreed to run the city’s fire trucks with one less fireman
each to save money, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept.
3 issue.  City council members adopted that change in San Jose’s
actual budget last summer. At the same meet-up this year,
residents agreed to eliminate paid overtime for city managers,
and 6 of 10 groups were willing to raise their  sales tax  by
0.25 percentage points, which the city is now considering.  “I really haven’t had anyone tell me this is a waste of
time,” says Harkness. “That’s pretty incredible when you’re
talking about budgets.”  Luke Hohmann  originally designed the game, called Buy a
Feature, for corporations. His  Mountain View , California
company,  Innovation Games , counts as customers  Adobe Systems
Inc. (ADBE) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  SAP AG (SAP) ,  Alcatel-
Lucent SA (ALU) , LexisNexis, Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co.,
and  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)   Cultural Hurdle  Tom Wesselman, an executive at Cisco who used a Hohmann
game to make decisions about design features in the company’s
Cius tablet, says Hohmann helped overcome a cultural hurdle:
Every department expected perfection, and to ship the product,
everyone had to accept a little imperfection.  “We learned there were deep tradeoffs,” he says.  That’s Hohmann’s specialty: getting people with seemingly
competing interests and vastly different viewpoints to
understand tradeoffs and make hard choices. It’s a skill he
thinks government needs right now.  “We’re just a little Silicon Valley company with a little
dream to have 200 million Americans all playing a game together
to fix  Social Security .”  Like many U.S. cities, San Jose lost revenue during the
recession and faces growing employee retirement expenses. The
city is projecting a deficit of $22.5 million in 2013. Before
2011, its community budget meetings typically featured
PowerPoint lectures, a question and answer session with the
mayor, and an open forum for public comment.  ‘Bad Sample’  That format gave the most weight to “the most vocal
people,” says Harkness. “That’s a bad sample. People can say
whatever they want without having to wrestle with complexity. It
encourages extreme thinking.”  Hohmann’s  Buy a Feature  changed everything. The rules
require specific cuts: “close libraries one hour earlier,”
rather than “cut library budgets by 5 percent.”  This keeps players from passing the hard choices down to
the library and requires them to confront the impact of their
decisions.  Each group has up to 10 players, who have to agree
unanimously to cut a service or raise revenue. By design, most
services are too expensive for a single player to pay for alone.
That discourages posturing.  A citizen can’t just make a viewpoint known; he has to
persuade others to adopt it.  Confronting Reality  “It forced participants to confront realities,” says
Harkness. “It’s a lot different than standing up and saying,
‘You should do this or that.’”  Politicians generally prefer polls to gauge public opinion.
Yet polls allow voters to insist on both better services and
lower taxes. Games in small groups lead to compromise. More
important, says Hohmann, they make elected officials feel as if
they’ve been given permission to make decisions -- such as
taking a fireman off a truck to save money -- that are
politically difficult.  San Jose plans to expand its game to at least 2,000
participants next year. Denver has contacted Hohmann about
running a game of its own, as have Austin,  Texas ,  Baton Rouge ,
 Chicago ,  Portland ,  Oregon , and  Seattle .  Taking on Congress  Now Hohmann is taking on a much bigger project: Congress.
This fall, he’s working with the Kettering Foundation to develop
an online game for balancing the  federal budget .  That’s ambitious. Hohmann’s customers to date have
advantages over Congress and the president. The market punishes
businesses that avoid tough decisions, and a city such as San
Jose doesn’t have the federal government’s generous  line of
credit .  Companies and cities don’t have the luxury of hunkering
down in a stalemate. Hohmann points out that the citizens of San
Jose didn’t approach him for help; the city’s elected officials
did.  “The reason why most of these local government change
initiatives fail is the same reason you can’t tell your
alcoholic brother to stop drinking,” he says. “Either he wants
to, and he’ll figure it out, or he doesn’t, and he won’t.”  Budgeting is necessarily a compromise. It’s what game
theorists call a “cooperative game,” one in which players
voluntarily agree to follow rules and abide by a result. Tennis
is a cooperative game.  “Non-cooperative” games have no rules, and no referee.  Congress and the president have decided that agreeing on a
spending plan isn’t as high a priority as a non-cooperative game
called “get re-elected.”  Neither party is giving its politicians much room to
maneuver, and voters have been rewarding candidates who
disparage compromise.  This has been the central feature of national politics for
two years now, and it’s tempting to conclude that Americans are
irreconcilably divided on taxes and spending.  Hohmann’s experience in San Jose suggests the problem may
not be the players, but the game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Greeley in Washington at 
 bgreeley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  