-- U.S. Retailers’ August Same-Store Sales Top Estimates
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-08-30T20:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/gap-macy-s-august-same-store-sales-top-estimates.html
U.S. retailers including  Gap Inc. (GPS) 
and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  posted August same-store sales that topped
analysts’ estimates as consumers took advantage of back-to-
school promotions.  Same-store sales at Gap, the biggest U.S. specialty-apparel
retailer, climbed 9 percent, beating the average projection for
a 5.5 percent gain from analysts surveyed by researcher Retail
Metrics Inc. Macy’s, the department-store chain, posted a 5.1
increase in same-store sales, topping the 3.3 percent estimate.  Aggressive promotions and cooler temperatures in the
Northeast drove sales and traffic in the second half of August,
 Adrienne Tennant , an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
 Washington , wrote in a note before the report. Same-store sales
for the more than 20 companies tracked by Swampscott,
Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics rose 2.7 percent, beating the
average estimate for a 1.8 percent gain.  “Despite a lot of challenging macroeconomic fundamentals,
the American consumer finds these opportunities where they just
pick themselves up and they go out and shop, and that’s what we
saw this month,” said Chris Donnelly, the Chicago-based global
managing director of the retail practice at consultant  Accenture
Plc. (ACN)  “Most retailers are beating the estimates and most of
their estimates were ambitious.”  Excluding drugstores, same-store sales in August rose 5.9
percent, beating estimates for a 4.2 percent increase,
Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics said in a report
today. Same-store sales increased 4.4 percent in July.  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales and some include online sales. The
revenue is a key indicator of a retailer’s growth because new
and closed sites are excluded.  Holiday Outlook  “We believe the healthy sales momentum we have seen this
back-to-school season bodes well for the important (and fast-
approaching) holiday season,” Randal Konik, a New York-based
analyst at Jefferies Group Inc., wrote in a note today.  Gap, which posted the biggest increase in same-store sales
at its Old Navy chain in  North America , rose 2.7 percent to
$36.11 at the close in New York, the highest closing price since
Aug. 1, 2000. The San Francisco-based company’s shares have
gained 95 percent this year.  Sales this fiscal year through Aug. 25 rose 6.2 percent to
$8.26 billion, Gap said today in a statement.  Macy’s, the operator of its namesake and Bloomingdale’s
department stores, fell 0.4 percent to $40.30. Online sales for
Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s, which Macy’s includes in its same-
store sales figure, surged 37 percent in the month, the
Cincinnati-based company said in a statement today.  Anniversary Sale  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  posted same-store sales that surged 21
percent, topping analysts’ estimates for an 11 percent increase,
after moving more of its annual anniversary sale event into
August. The shares lost 0.9 percent to $57.53.  Comparable-store sales at  Bon-Ton Stores Inc. (BONT) , the
recovering department-store company that has almost tripled its
share price this year, rose 2.2 percent, exceeding analysts’
estimates of 1.3 percent. The York, Pennsylvania-based retailer
rose 1.4 percent to $9.96.  Wet Seal Inc. (WTSLA) , the teen retailer that fired its chief
executive officer last month, said same-store sales in August
dropped 18 percent, compared with estimates for a 16 percent
decline. The company, trying to turn around its operations, said
in a statement today that the results were “in line with our
expectations.”  Skinny Denim  Apparel sales are surging this back-to-school season,
driven by colorful apparel, skinny denim and printed tops,
Retail Metrics said today.  U.S. students typically start school in August or at the
beginning of September after two to three months of summer
vacation. Most back-to-school sales take place in August and
September.  “Retailers were a lot more aggressive to get people in the
store and get them spending quickly, and that clearly worked,”
Accenture’s Donnelly said. “However, what’s interesting is that
really across the board, people spent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  