-- Germany Plays Bad Cop as Irish Chase Bank Debt Help: Euro Credit
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-08-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/germany-plays-bad-cop-as-irish-chase-bank-debt-help-euro-credit.html
Economic sovereignty is coming at a
price for Ireland as borrowing costs in the  bond market  exceed
the interest on bailout loans and  Germany  signals resistance to
helping reduce the bill for rescuing its banks.  Faced with repaying maturing bonds in 18 months, the
country’s debt agency last week sold 1 billion euros ($1.25
billion) of amortizing bonds with a weighted yield of 5.91
percent. Last month, it re-entered long-term international
credit markets for the first time in almost two years, selling
4.2 billion euros of bonds with an average yield of about 6
percent. Ireland pays about 3.8 percent for its bailout funds.  Ireland experienced the costliest banking crisis among
advanced economies since the Great Depression, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . As it seeks help from Germany and
other euro partners to refinance the 64 billion-euro cost of
saving its financial system, doubts are emerging about the scope
of the agreement that may be on offer.  “The key goal of the recent efforts has been to finance
the January 2014 bond redemption, the so-called funding cliff,”
said  Dermot O’Leary , an economist at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in
Dublin. “The next goal is to reduce market yields to a more
sustainable level, which would be assisted by a favorable deal”
on the nation’s bank debt, he said.  The government originally faced repaying 11.9 billion
euros. Through securities sales and debt swaps this year, the
debt agency has cut that to about 2.4 billion euros.  Yields Fall  The yield on the benchmark October 2020 bond stood at 5.94
percent yesterday. It has dropped 119 basis points from 7.13
percent just before the June gathering of euro-region leaders,
which unexpectedly opened the door to recapitalizing banks
directly through the European Stability Mechanism.  Yet German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in an
interview in the Irish Times newspaper last week that more help
for Ireland may send the wrong signal to investors.  “We will have to avoid to generate a headline like ‘Aid
programme for Ireland Topped Up’ because then investors in
California or  Shanghai  might not understand that this top-up is
a reward for Ireland, but might be tempted to conclude that what
was agreed two years ago for Ireland was not enough,” Schaeuble
told the Irish Times in the article published on Aug. 24.  “We cannot do anything that generates new uncertainty on
the financial markets and lose trust which Ireland is just at
the point of winning back,” he said.  Silence Please  Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  hailed the decision to
break the link between the state and banks as a seismic shift in
policy that might ease the burden on the Irish taxpayer. After a
real-estate bubble burst in 2008, Ireland now controls five of
its six biggest domestic banks. Dublin-based Permanent TSB Group
Holdings Plc this week posted a net loss of 566 million euros
for the first half in part because of mortgage arrears.  “The German government would like to see silence, hard
work and no complaints from Ireland at this stage,” said
 Christian Schulz , a London-based senior economist at Berenberg
Bank, which is headquartered in Hamburg. “The German political
attitude is that Ireland is a country that can deal with its own
problems, is rebuilding market confidence and should not dampen
this by embarking by any restructurings of any kind, at least
not ahead of the German election.”  Germans cast ballots next year and voters are getting
increasingly weary of being  Europe ’s paymaster.  German Votes  A poll published on Aug. 29 showed German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s governing Christian Democratic bloc nor a possible
Social Democrat-Green alliance would have enough support to form
a government were elections held now.  “The aim is to delay any resolution on this as much as
possible,” said Schulz. “Keep hopes high and delay, to see
where Ireland is towards the end of its existing program.”  Irish  government bonds  with a maturity of at least 10 years
are the second-best performing in the euro region over the past
year after  Portugal , returning 33 percent, according to indexes
tracked by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Anticipation of a deal on Irish bank debt
had spurred some of that recent performance and Schaeuble’s
comments suggest it may take longer, O’Leary at Goodbody said.  “It is like giving a patient treatment and refusing to
top-up this treatment despite continued pain and uncertainty as
to whether it will actually pull through,” said O’Leary.  European finance ministers will meet Sept. 14-15 in Cyprus
to review a first set of European Commission proposals to forge
a euro-region banking union. Agreement is needed before any
direct recapitalization of banks, or in Ireland’s case,
retrospective recapitalization, can take place.  ‘Bad Cop’  The comments “are probably simply part of the ‘bad cop’
role that Schaeuble likes to play when negotiating with the
likes of Ireland and  Greece ,” said Owen Callan, a Dublin-based
fixed-income analyst at Danske Bank A/S, a primary dealer in
Irish government debt. “We would not read too much into them.”  The need for a deal has been reinforced by the fragile
nature of the Irish recovery, necessary to ensure the nation’s
debt is sustainable. While the economy grew last year for the
first time since 2007, that was driven almost entirely by
exports and companies such as Google Inc. and  Intel Corp .  The European Commission lowered its 2013 growth forecast
for Ireland to 1.4 percent from 1.9 percent. Economic confidence
in the euro area fell to a three-year low in August, a
commission report yesterday showed.  “The success of Ireland’s re-entry to markets in recent
weeks will be judged on whether Irish bond yields continue to
fall to below 5 percent,” said Conall Mac Coille, an economist
at Dublin securities firm Davy. “Failure by EU politicians to
deliver tangible measures to help debt sustainability poses a
clear risk to  market sentiment  towards Ireland.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  