-- German Unemployment Rises for a Fifth Month Amid Crisis
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-08-30T09:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/german-unemployment-rises-for-a-fifth-month-amid-crisis.html
German  unemployment  increased for a
fifth straight month in August as the  European debt crisis 
curbed demand for exports and companies held back investment.  The number of people without a job increased a seasonally
adjusted 9,000 to 2.90 million, the Federal Labor Agency in
Nuremberg said today. Economists forecast a gain of 7,000, the
median of 31 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  shows. The
adjusted jobless rate was unchanged at 6.8 percent.  Companies are delaying hiring and investment as the debt
crisis curbs European demand for their goods and damps the
outlook for economic growth and corporate earnings. The jobless
rate is still at a two-decade low and wages are rising, boosting
 consumer spending  in  Europe ’s largest economy and helping it to
weather the turmoil. Until April, unemployment had sustained an
almost uninterrupted decline for more than two and a half years.  “The strong labor market has been one of the main drivers
of German growth in the first half of the year,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Group in Brussels. “Today’s
numbers provide further evidence that the labor market is
gradually losing steam and that the positive impact on the
economy should peter out toward the end of the year.”  The euro was little changed after the report and traded at
$1.2553 at 11:50 a.m. in  Frankfurt , up 0.2 percent on the day.  ‘Holiday Month’  Unemployment rose an unadjusted 29,000 in August, today’s
data showed. The weaker economy is hurting the labor market, the
labor agency said in a press release.  “It’s normal for unemployment to rise in a holiday month,
but the increase this month is bigger than usual,” labor agency
President Frank-Juergen Weise told a press conference.  German economic growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the second
quarter from 0.5 percent in the first. That’s still better than
the 0.2 percent drop in euro-area gross domestic product in the
three months through June.  With the European Commission forecasting a 0.3 percent
contraction of the 17-nation economy this year, German companies
are reluctant to expand production capacity.  German  capital investment  fell 0.9 percent in the second
quarter from the first, with spending on plant and machinery
down 2.3 percent and construction spending falling 0.3 percent,
a breakdown of GDP showed on Aug. 23. By contrast, private
consumption rose 0.4 percent in the quarter.  Job Cuts  The Bundesbank raised its 2012 growth forecast for  Germany 
to 1 percent from 0.6 percent in June, citing domestic
consumption.  “Private spending alone can’t stop Germany’s export-
oriented economy from cooling,” said Christian Lips, an
economist at NordLB in Hanover. “With all the unresolved
problems in the euro area, companies are uneasy and are
postponing investments, and this has an effect on employment.”  Siemens AG (SIE)  said on Aug. 27 it will cut 500 jobs at its
German factories making industrial gear boxes and clutches by
2016, citing slack demand.  Almost 1,800 jobs are at risk in Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
electoral district after the shipbuilder P+S Werften GmbH filed
for insolvency. ThyssenKrupp Steel Europe AG, Germany’s biggest
steelmaker, introduced shortened shifts for workers this month
due to “ongoing weak orders.”  German factory orders fell 7.8 percent in June from a year
earlier and business confidence fell for a fourth straight month
in August. Manufacturing contracted this month.  Germany’s jobless rate was 5.4 percent in June, according
to the latest harmonized Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development figures. That compared with 8.2 percent in the
U.S., 10.8 percent in  Italy  and a euro-area average of 11.2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  