-- GM Halted SUV-Making in Ryan’s Hometown Before Obama Took Office
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-08-31T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/gm-halted-suv-making-in-ryan-s-hometown-before-obama-took-office.html
In his speech accepting the
Republican vice presidential nomination Aug. 29, Representative
Paul D. Ryan of  Wisconsin  attacked President  Barack Obama  over
the closing of a  General Motors Co. (GM)  factory in Ryan’s hometown.
The only rub is that the factory stopped making GM vehicles
while  George W. Bush  was still president.  The Janesville, Wisconsin, plant had employed about 1,200
union workers making full-size SUVs, GM said at the time. As
truck sales fell in 2008, the Detroit-based automaker announced
in October, while the presidential race was in full swing, that
it would idle the plant that year. Two months later, before
Obama was sworn in, GM halted most output at the plant, except
for some low-volume Isuzu trucks.  GM received the first part of a government bailout under
then-President Bush on the last day of 2008. Obama took office
in January 2009.  “The Obama administration had nothing to do with any
individual plant-closing decisions,”  Steven Rattner , who headed
Obama’s auto task force, said yesterday in an interview. “But
in this case, it’s particularly egregious to suggest that the
administration had any connection since this decision was made
and announced before Barack Obama became president.”  Chronological facts notwithstanding, Ryan seized on the
plant closing in his speech, linking it to the company’s
subsequent bankruptcy reorganization that is now largely seen as
a hallmark of the Obama administration.  ‘Locked Up’  “Right there at that plant,” Ryan said Aug. 29.
“Candidate Obama said: ‘I believe that if our government is
there to support you, this plant will be here for another
hundred years.’ That’s what he said in 2008. Well, as it turned
out, that plant didn’t last another year. It is locked up and
empty to this day.”  Ryan declined to revise his comments in an interview
yesterday on  CNN .  “Ryan blaming the president for a GM auto plant that
closed under President Bush -- thought he was smarter than
that,”  Stephanie Cutter , an Obama campaign adviser, posted on
Twitter during the speech.  Workers at the factory built about 95,600 GM SUVs --
Chevrolet Tahoes and Suburbans and GMC Yukons and Yukon XLs --in
2008 and 2,400 Isuzu trucks. The plant made 1,400 of the Isuzu
models in 2009.  “It remains in standby,” Bill Grotz, a GM spokesman, said
in a telephone interview about the Janesville plant. “Standby
is synonymous with idled.” It means there are no plans for
production at the plant in the “foreseeable future,” he said.  General Motors Corp. entered bankruptcy court protection on
June 1, 2009, and the new General Motors Co. emerged on July 10,
2009. The  U.S. Treasury  and other owners sold $15.8 billion of
common shares and the automaker sold $4.35 billion of preferred
shares in a November 2010 initial public offering.  After Bankruptcy  Since bankruptcy, GM has announced more than $7.3 billion
of investments for U.S. factories that retain or create 18,600
jobs, Grotz said. The company earned a record full-year net
income of $9.19 billion in 2011 while surpassing  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  as the world’s top-selling automaker.  The U.S. government still holds more than 500 million
shares of GM, acquired in the $50 billion bailout by the Obama
administration. The stake is 32 percent of GM’s outstanding
 common stock .  Even before bankruptcy, GM was trying to shed capacity.
Since 2008, GM has closed five plants and placed three on
standby status, including Janesville, according to Grotz.  Two of the standby plants have been given a reprieve. GM
announced in 2009 that its Orion Assembly plant in  Michigan 
would build a new small car, eventually named the Chevrolet
Sonic, and last year the company said its factory in Spring
Hill,  Tennessee , would build the Chevrolet Equinox compact SUV
beginning in the second half of this year.  Cuts Needed  “Everybody said -- Republicans and Democrats agreed -- we
had too much capacity,”  Arthur Schwartz , a former GM labor
executive who left the company at the end of 2009. “When you
reduce capacity, somebody gets hurt.”  Janesville was vulnerable because it was an old plant that
would require a lot of investment to build a new product, he
said.  The Janesville Assembly Plant was constructed in 1919 to
produce Samson tractors. Chevrolet production began there in
1923, Grotz said in an e-mail.  Ryan Request  While Obama’s auto task force was working on the
automaker’s prepackaged bankruptcy, Ryan called Rattner, who
headed the team, to lobby on behalf of the Janesville plant,
Rattner said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “We don’t get involved in those decisions,” Rattner said.
“There was no desire to go punish the people of Wisconsin or
Janesville. It was simply: Plants were closed all over the
country and Janesville was one of them.”  While still a candidate, Obama commented on the plant being
placed on “standby” by the company, saying in October 2008
that he would “retool” companies like the plant in Janesville.
Ryan’s camp has used those words to push back against questions
about the validity of the statement.  “The facts are clear: When the GM plant went on standby
the president told the people of Wisconsin he would ‘lead an
effort to retool’ it and restart production,”  Brendan Buck ,
Ryan’s spokesman, said yesterday. “But when the bailout’s
winners and losers were decided, Janesville ended up losing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  