-- Grain-Barge Logjam From Isaac Rains Compounding Drought Slowdown
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-08-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/grain-barge-logjam-from-isaac-rains-compounding-drought-slowdown.html
A logjam of grain barges is
worsening on the  Mississippi River  after  New Orleans  terminal
closures during Hurricane Issac compounded a slowdown in U.S.
exports already delayed by low water levels during a drought.  The number of barges moving north on the Mississippi fell
to 117 in the week ended Aug. 25, down 75 percent from five
weeks earlier and 14 percent smaller than a year earlier,  data 
from the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers show. The U.S. is the
world’s largest exporter of corn, soybeans and wheat.  “It will take the whole month of September to straighten
out the logjam of empty barges stuck south of  Memphis ,” Troy Lust, a senior risk manager for commercial grain at INTL FCStone
Inc., a commodity brokerage in  West Des Moines ,  Iowa , said in a
telephone interview. “We have starved the market for empty
barges ahead of harvest. It’s a horrible combination that will
increase demand for rail shipments that must compete with
ethanol plants and soybean processors for reduced supplies.”  Soybean and corn futures rose to records in  Chicago  this
month as the worst drought in at least 50 years reduced U.S.
production for a third straight year. Farmers, who began
harvesting this month, will produce 10.779 billion bushels of
corn, 13 percent less than last year, even after farmers planted
the most acres since 1937, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said Aug. 10. The soybean crop may fall 12 percent to 2.692
billion bushels, the smallest in five years.  Barges on the  Mississippi  handle about 60 percent of U.S.
grain exports. Cargill Inc. shut its Louisiana grain facilities
at Reserve and WestWego, Mark Klein, a spokesman for the
Minneapolis-based company, said Aug. 28. Archer Daniels Midland
Co. has four grain elevators and port operations in New Orleans,
all of which are currently shut.  Alternate Arrangements  “The impact on ADM will depend on the strength of the
storm and where it hits,” Jackie Anderson, a spokeswoman for
Decatur, Illinois-based ADM, said in an e-mail Aug. 27. “ADM
has a vast transportation network and can make alternate
shipping arrangements to meet customers’ needs in the event that
port operations are reduced by the storm.”  Rail-car deliveries through Aug. 22 to export terminals in
the U.S. are down 17 percent this year compared with the same
period a year earlier, USDA data show. Shipments in the last
four weeks are up 15 percent from the same period in 2011, as
barge-freight costs rose 23 percent, the government said.  Isaac, which reached the  Gulf of Mexico  coast on the
seventh anniversary of  Hurricane Katrina , was downgraded to a
tropical storm with top winds of 70 miles (113 kilometers) an
hour as it moved northwest at 6 mph, the  National Hurricane
Center  said at 4 p.m. local time. It was 60 miles west of New
Orleans. The storm is still causing life-threatening storm
surges and inland flooding, according to the center.  Carrying Less  The lack of rain across the Midwest caused the shipping
channel in the Mississippi River to shrink, meaning less freight
can be carried by barges on the nation’s largest waterway and
its tributaries, including the Ohio and  Illinois  Rivers.  As much as 9 inches of  rain  may fall in central Illinois
from remnants of Isaac, the government said.  “Heavy rains and winds will certainly threaten Midwest
crops and further cut yield potential,”  Richard Feltes , the
vice president of research for R.J. O’Brien & Associates in
Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “The rain will help to
improve barge shipping, but the threat of additional crop losses
will support higher prices,” said Feltes, who forecasts corn
may rise to $9 a bushel and soybeans may top $20 a bushel.  Corn futures for December delivery rose 2.3 percent to
close at $8.135 yesterday on the Chicago Board of Trade, while
soybean futures for November delivery settled at $17.53, up 1.8
percent. Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion
in 2011, followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion, government
figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  