-- ICBC Profit Growth Slows as China Banks’ Overdue Loans Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-31T08:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/icbc-profit-growth-slows-to-11-as-china-s-economy-decelerates.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  led the nation’s biggest lenders in posting slower
profit growth as a sluggish economy curtailed demand for
financial services and more borrowers defaulted on debt.  Net income  at ICBC, the world’s largest lender by market
value, climbed 11 percent in the second quarter to 61.8 billion
 yuan  ($9.7 billion), according to first-half figures reported
yesterday by the Beijing-based company. Combined earnings of
China’s five biggest banks increased 13 percent to 203.6 billion
yuan in the quarter, slowing from 33 percent a year earlier.  Overdue loans rose at the five banks as the  economy 
decelerated for a sixth quarter, and China’s liberalization of
 interest rates  threatens to squeeze margins in the second half.
Still, Chinese banks’ bad-loan ratios are less than 1 percent
and they remain among the world’s most profitable, with ICBC
alone making more than JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Bank of America
Corp.  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. combined.  “Credit quality of Chinese banks has obviously
deteriorated, which is a reflection of the significant decline
in the economy,” said Lewis Wan, the Hong Kong-based chief
investment officer at Pride Investment Group Ltd., which manages
$300 million of assets. “The profit growth will certainly stall
some more as lending margins shrink and fee income slows.”  Shares of the five biggest Chinese lenders have fallen by
an average 7.4 percent in Hong Kong this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. ICBC and its local rivals trade at an
average 5.3 times their forecast earnings for 2012, compared
with 9.6 times for  HSBC (HSBA)  Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s most profitable
bank, and 8 times for New York-based JPMorgan, the largest U.S.
lender.  Economic Slowdown  China’s two interest-rate cuts this year, three reductions
in banks’  reserve requirements  since November and accelerated
approvals for investment projects haven’t been enough to reverse
a slowdown in output.  The  economy  grew 7.6 percent in the second quarter, the
slowest pace since 2009. Barclays Plc, Deutsche Bank AG and Bank
of America this month cut their forecasts for the nation’s
third-quarter growth, while Morgan Stanley lowered its outlook
for 2012 expansion to 8 percent from 8.5 percent.  Bank of Communications Co. , China’s fifth-largest lender by
assets, yesterday reported a 16 percent increase in second-
quarter profit to 15.2 billion yuan. Agricultural  Bank of China
Ltd. (3988) , ranked third, on Aug. 29 posted a 14 percent gain. Net
income for  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the second largest,
rose 20 percent while fourth-ranked  Bank of China  Ltd. last week
said earnings growth slowed to 5.3 percent.  ICBC gained 0.2 percent to HK$4.20 at the close of trading
in Hong Kong, while Bank of Communications added 1.6 percent to
HK$5.07. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  lost 0.4 percent.  ‘Monopoly’ Profits  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in April China needs to break the
“monopoly” of several big lenders, which make easy profits
because it’s hard to borrow money elsewhere. The five banks had
31 trillion yuan of loans outstanding as of June 30, controlling
almost half of the nation’s total.  Soured loans at the nation’s 3,800 banks increased for a
third straight quarter, the longest streak of deterioration in
eight years, according to the China Banking Regulatory
Commission. Most of the increase in bad loans came from the
eastern Chinese province of Zhejiang, the Shanghai Securities
News reported this month.  Overdue Loans  Overdue loans, an indication of future bad loan formation,
at the five biggest banks totaled 416 billion yuan as of June
30, an increase of 27 percent from the end of last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. ICBC’s advances with
payments pending for more than 90 days rose 7 percent to 62
billion yuan, while debt overdue for less than three months
surged 60 percent to 80 billion yuan. At Construction Bank, the
90-day figure jumped 34 percent.  “Asset quality will continue to worsen, and the market has
been expecting that,” said Ivan Li, head of research at Kim Eng
Securities  Hong Kong  Ltd. “What is uncertain is the banks’ net
interest margins” and how much they will shrink.  ICBC’s net interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, widened to 2.66 percent in the first half from
2.6 percent a year earlier. The measure shrank at Bank of China
and Agricultural Bank in the second quarter from the previous
three months.  Rate Deregulation  The central bank in June allowed lenders to widen the
discount on borrowing costs to 20 percent and broadened it
further to 30 percent last month as policy makers picked up the
pace of interest rate deregulation.  The  weighted average lending rate  charged by banks had
already fallen to 7.06 percent in June, down by 0.56 percentage
point from March, according to the central bank. About 8 percent
of loans were priced below the benchmark rate that month, the
most in 11 months.  Bank of Communications faces “significant” pressure on
its margins, Vice President Yu Yali said yesterday at a
briefing. ICBC’s first-half loan margin doesn’t yet reflect the
impact of the June rate cut, President Yang Kaisheng said.  China ’s government is maintaining curbs on real estate and
refrained from introducing a nationwide economic stimulus
package similar to the one in 2008. Caterpillar Inc., the
world’s largest maker of construction and mining machinery, shut
its main excavator factory in China for much of July and had
employees on shortened work weeks.  Record Profit  In the first six months, ICBC’s profit rose 12.5 percent to
123.2 billion yuan, according to yesterday’s statement, paving
the way for it to post record profit for a seventh year since
becoming publicly traded in 2006. The second-quarter figures
were calculated based on the first-half numbers.  State-run Central Huijin Investment Ltd. bought more
Shanghai-listed A shares of ICBC, Construction Bank, Bank of
China and Agricultural Bank in the second quarter, Shanghai
Securities News reported today, citing their interim reports.  China’s 3,800 lenders reported net income of $52.8 billion
in the second quarter, 53 percent more the total earnings of
7,246 U.S. banks, data from the China Banking Regulatory
Commission and the  U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  show.  JPMorgan (JPM)  last month reported a 9 percent decline in second-
quarter net income to $4.96 billion after posting a $4.4 billion
trading loss at its chief investment office.  HSBC, the largest European bank by market value, last month
posted an 8.3 percent drop in earnings and made a $1.3 billion
provision in the first half to compensate British clients
wrongly sold payment-protection insurance and derivatives. The
London-based lender also made a $700 million provision for U.S.
fines after a Senate committee found the bank gave terrorists,
drug cartels and criminals access to the U.S. financial system.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  