-- India’s Rupee Snaps Two-Day Gain as Growth Slowdown Predicted
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-08-30T04:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/india-s-rupee-snaps-two-day-gain-as-growth-slowdown-predicted.html
India’s rupee snapped a two-day
advance before data forecast to show Asia’s third-largest
economy expanded at the slowest pace in three years.  A government report tomorrow will show  gross domestic
product  increased 5.2 percent in the three months ended June 30,
according to the median of 39 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. That compares with 5.3 percent the previous quarter and
is the slowest pace since March 2009. The BSE India  Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  of shares fell for a fifth day. Investors are cautious
before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  speaks at a
meeting of central bankers in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, tomorrow,
according to BNP Paribas SA.  “The markets are risk averse and favoring safe assets, so
the  Indian rupee  is being affected by the potential of lower
equity flows,” said Thio Chin Loo, a senior strategist at BNP
Paribas in Singapore. “With the GDP numbers expected to confirm
a growth slowdown, we still think the central bank will cut
 interest rates  even if inflation stays high.”  The rupee retreated 0.1 percent to 55.7050 per dollar as of
9:53 a.m. in Mumbai, matching the decline this month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
unchanged at 9.80 percent, the lowest level since May 3. The
gauge has fallen 140 basis points, or 1.4 percentage points,
this month.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said in  New
York  yesterday that lower growth is acceptable to contain
prices. He had said on Aug. 28 policy makers need to reduce the
nation’s inflation rate by about 2 percentage points. The
monetary authority next reviews interest rates on Sept. 17. A
U.S. central bank report yesterday said the world’s largest
economy expanded gradually in July and early August.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 56.73 per
dollar, compared with 56.65 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 56.67 from 56.61. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  