-- Iran Produces 31% More Uranium to Add to Stockpile: IAEA
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-08-30T15:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/iran-produces-31-more-uranium-to-add-to-stockpile-iaea.html
Iran  maintained its output of
enriched uranium that world powers say may eventually be used
for nuclear weapons, according to the  International Atomic
Energy Agency .  Iran’s stockpile of medium-enriched uranium grew 31 percent
to 189.4 kilograms (417.6 pounds) from 145 kilograms in May, the
IAEA said today in an 11-page restricted report. The Persian
Gulf country had raised production of the 20 percent enriched
material by a third in the three-month period ending May 25.  “The agency is unable to provide credible assurance about
the absence of undeclared nuclear material and activities in
Iran, and therefore to conclude that all nuclear material in
Iran is in peaceful activities,” according to the report. The
IAEA said it hadn’t detected any material diversion from Iran’s
16 declared nuclear facilities.  The report is the first since IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano’s creation on Aug. 10 of an Iran task force to continue
the  United Nations ’ decade-long investigation. The U.S. and its
allies allege Iran is trying to build nuclear weapons while the
Islamic Republic insists it only wants atomic technology for
power and medicine.  The IAEA also reported that Iran’s stockpile of low-
enriched uranium, purified to less than 5 percent, grew to 6,876
kilograms from 6,232 kilograms in May.  The number of centrifuges, fast-spinning machines that
purify the heavy metal, installed at Iran’s fuel-fabrication
plant in Natanz, about 300 kilometers (186 miles) south of
Tehran, fell to 9,156 from 9,330 in May.  Mountain Facility  Machines at the Fordo facility, which was built
clandestinely into the side of a mountain, rose to over 2,088
from 1,064 in June. That enrichment facility has drawn
particular attention from  Israel  because it would be difficult
to destroy with an air strike.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told U.S. Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  on Aug. 1 that time “is running out”
for a peaceful solution to Iran’s atomic program. Israel is
considering bombing the nuclear facilities before Nov. 6 U.S.
elections, Tel Aviv-based Haaretz newspaper said Aug. 10.  About 175 kilograms of 20 percent enriched uranium, or 630
kilograms of low-enriched uranium, if further purified, could
yield the quantity of weapons-grade uranium needed to produce a
bomb, according to the London-based Verification Research,
Training and Information Center, a non-governmental observer to
the IAEA that’s funded by European governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  