-- Ironwood-Forest Irritable Bowel Therapy Wins FDA Approval
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-30T20:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/ironwood-forest-irritable-bowel-therapy-wins-fda-approval.html
Ironwood Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IRWD)  and
 Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  won U.S. regulatory approval of their
linaclotide treatment for irritable bowel syndrome with
constipation.  The therapy was also approved for chronic constipation, the
 Food and Drug Administration  said today in a  statement . As many
as 11 million Americans have irritable bowel syndrome with
constipation, a disorder that causes abdominal pain, according
to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Ironwood.  Linaclotide will compete with  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s
Amitiza, which generated 18.7 billion yen ($237.6 million) for
the Japanese drugmaker in the 12 months ended in March. Peak
sales for linaclotide may reach $1.35 billion, Edward Nash, an
analyst with Cowen & Co., said in an Aug. 28 interview. The drug
may help reduce patients’ pain, an important element in the
treatment of IBS-C, he said.  “That’s the really big differentiator for the drug,” Nash
said by telephone. “At the end of the day, why is a patient
going to even come to the doctor? Yes, it’s because they’re
constipated or have diarrhea, but it’s the pain associated with
that that’s so significant.”  Linaclotide was developed by Ironwood with New York-based
Forest Labs, and the companies will co-promote the drug in the
U.S. Ironwood licensed the drug in  Europe  to Barcelona, Spain-
based  Almirall SA (ALM) , and to Tokyo-based  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503)  for
several Asian countries.  Sales Schedule  Ironwood and Forest will start selling the drug in the
fourth quarter of this year, said Ironwood Chief Executive
Officer Peter Hecht.  The FDA approved the drug without a restriction on how long
patients should use it for, which could help sales, he said.
“With that in the label, and the demonstrated pain relief, we
think we can do an effective job educating patients and
physicians,” Hecht said in a telephone interview today.  Forest rose 1.1 percent to $35.04 at 4 p.m. New York time.
Ironwood’s  shares  fell 1.9 percent to $12.42.  Biotechnology stocks typically gain prior to regulatory
approval and then decline subsequently, as some investors take
profits and seek to avoid the stumbles that companies often
experience selling their new therapies for the first time.  Linaclotide was shown in studies to help alleviate
abdominal pain and symptoms of constipation. The most common
side effect was diarrhea, which might be expected “as a side
effect for treating constipation; you’re going to overshoot the
mark,” Nash said.  Takeda’s Amitiza is co-marketed with  Sucampo
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SCMP)   Corey Davis , an analyst with Jefferies &
Co. in New York, said that Takeda’s drug won’t pose much
competition for linaclotide.  “It’s barely even a drug,” Davis said in a telephone
interview. “The side effects are so severe that this is going
to blow it away.” The approval had been expected by investors,
who were selling the stock on the news, he said.  Davis said linaclotide sales may reach $2 billion. “This
is going to be one of the most important drugs in the entire
industry in the next couple years,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  