-- Israel Unemployment Rate Plummets in July as Economy Expands
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-08-30T12:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/israel-unemployment-rate-plummets-in-july-as-economy-expands-2-.html
Israel ’s jobless rate plummeted in
July to its lowest this year as the economy expanded.  The monthly  unemployment  rate declined to a seasonally
adjusted 6.5 percent from a revised 7.1 percent the previous
month, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  said
today. At the same time, labor participation rose to 63.9
percent from 63.6 percent, it said.  “The labor market is functioning well,” Finance Minister
Yuval Steinitz said. “To preserve fast growth and low
unemployment and protect the citizens of Israel from the global
crisis we will have to be extremely careful to preserve economic
and fiscal discipline.”  Economic growth  unexpectedly accelerated for the first time
in a year and a half in the second quarter, driven by an
increase in exports and  consumer spending . The economy expanded
an annualized 3.2 percent compared with a revised 2.8 percent in
the first three months of the year.  Bank of Israel  Governor
 Stanley Fischer  said the government needs to cut the budget by
about 17 billion shekels ($4.2 billion) to help contain the
deficit amid the European financial crisis.  The bureau said in its statement that the jobless rate may
have been affected by the monthlong Ramadan fast which began in
July and by school vacations, which may have lowered the number
of jobseekers.  ‘Irregular Influences’  Trend figures published by the bureau, which remove
“irregular influences” from the seasonally adjusted data, show
a decline in unemployment to 6.7 percent from 6.8 percent in
June and 6.9 percent in the four previous months.  “It implies a slight downward trend,” said  Daniel Hewitt ,
an economist at Barclays Plc in  London . “That, in conjunction
with the second quarter GDP release, implies that the Israeli
economy is doing very well.”  The Bank of Israel said in an Aug. 27 statement that it
will probably lower its domestic growth forecast of 3.4 percent
for next year in September amid the global economic crisis.
About 40 percent of gross domestic product is made up of
exports.  The figures released today run counter to earlier
indicators that showed a worsening in the labor market, said
Modi Shafrir, chief economist at Tel Aviv-based I.L.S. Brokers
Ltd. These include data released by the government’s employment
service, which showed a decline in demand for employees since
the beginning of the year and a rise in the number of people
fired in July.  The statistics bureau, since the start of the year, has
been publishing monthly unemployment data under a new format
that changes the labor force survey from quarterly to monthly,
to comply with Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 