-- Hitachi Construction China Plant Cuts Output Rate by Half
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-08-31T06:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/hitachi-construction-china-plant-cuts-production-rate-by-half.html
Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. (6305) ,
the world’s third-biggest maker of building equipment, is
shutting its Chinese plant for two weeks a month until October
as the nation’s economic slowdown triggers a sales slump.  The first weekly suspension at the Hefei plant has reduced
average production rates to 25 percent, half the level a year
earlier, President Yuichi Tsujimoto said Aug. 29 in an interview
at the company’s headquarters in  Tokyo . The plant, set up in the
eastern Chinese province of Anhui in 1995, has capacity to make
30,000 excavators a year.  “We had expected Chinese demand to pick up in the October
to December quarter,” Tsujimoto said. “Given accumulated
inventories and machine utilization, the market is unlikely to
grow as we had thought.”  The company, which gets 16 percent of its sales from  China ,
and rivals  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  have cut production
in the world’s biggest construction equipment market. While
Tsujimoto said demand may recover in the first quarter of 2013,
the pace of growth wouldn’t be fast enough to fill the “huge”
capacity added by Chinese and foreign suppliers.  In July, Hitachi Construction Machinery  forecast  industry
sales of excavators built by foreign suppliers in China will
drop 20 percent to 56,000 units in the year to March 2013,
following a 37 percent slide the previous year. The government’s
tighter monetary policy has cooled the construction boom and
curbed sales at Hitachi and Komatsu since the April to June
quarter of 2011.  Tough Competition  Tsujimoto expects competition in his industry will spread
to other  emerging markets  from  Southeast Asia  to  Brazil  as they
try to offset falling demand in Asia’s biggest economy.  Sany Heavy, based in Changsha,  Hunan province  surpassed
 Japan ’s Komatsu as the biggest excavator maker in China by units
last year, based on China Construction Machinery Association
data.  The company, run by billionaire Liang Wengen, said
yesterday first-half overseas sales more than doubled, aided by
demand in emerging markets; overall revenue gained 4.6 percent
to 31.8 billion  yuan  ($5 billion). The new rival isn’t an
immediate threat because it buys high-end hydraulic components
from Japan, Tsujimoto said.  “Given the company imports key components from Japan, we
compete with them in the same playing field,” meaning there’s
limited room for the competitor to cut costs, Tsujimoto said.
“But they may produce hydraulic components by themselves in 10
years so we’ll always need to develop new technologies.”  Sany Heavy has said it hires dozens of foreign engineers,
many of whom are Japanese, to help improve quality and boost
overseas sales.  Larger Rivals  Hitachi ranks third worldwide by total sales of
construction and mining equipment, with its revenue still less
than half that of Komatsu, the biggest manufacturer after
Caterpillar.  Tsujimoto said he wants to make the company the world’s
largest supplier of excavators and mining dump trucks as it
tries to close the gap with bigger rivals.  Hitachi Construction Machinery closed down 2.6 percent to
1,296 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, matching yesterday’s
drop. The shares have fallen 9.8 percent in the past six days,
the longest losing streak since Dec. 20.  The slowdown in  China’s economy  curbed demand for coal
mining equipment in Indonesia and some customers delayed orders,
he said. While the slowdown hasn’t spread to iron ore and copper
mining, the company will need to closely monitor demand,
Tsujimoto said.  Hitachi Construction Machinery has three months to four
months of inventories in China, above the normal 1.5 to two
months, Tsujimoto said. Despite the slowdown, the company at
this stage is going ahead with plans to add a second Chinese
plant near its existing factory in 2014, he said. When fully
open it will double local production capacity to 60,000
excavators a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in 東京 at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  