-- Italy Yields Drop at Auction on Prospect of ECB Bond Buying
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-08-30T11:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/italy-yields-drop-at-auction-on-prospect-of-ecb-bond-buying.html
Italy ’s borrowing costs dropped at
an auction of five- and 10-year debt on optimism the  European
Central Bank  may soon start buying euro nations’ bonds to make
their funding more affordable.  Italy sold 7.29 billion euros ($9.2 billion) of five- and
10-year bonds today, near the maximum target for the auction.
The Rome-based Treasury priced a new 10-year bond to yield 5.82
percent, down from 5.96 percent when a similar-maturity bond was
sold on July 30. That was the least Italy paid to borrow for 10
years since July 13, still above the average auction result of
4.5 percent in the past 10 years.  The Treasury priced its five-year bond to yield 4.73
percent, compared with 5.29 percent last month. Italy also sold
a 2017 floating bond to yield 5.33 percent. Investors bid for
1.42 times the amount of the 10-year bond sold, up from 1.29
last month. The bid-to-cover on the 4.75 percent five-year bond
was 1.46 compared with 1.34 on July 30.  “There’s some optimism in the market that perhaps things
won’t get worse than it is now,” said Charles Berry, a bond
trader at Landesbank Barden Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart. “It’s
encouraging to see that Italy can refinance itself at a lower
cost than in previous sales.”  ECB Intervention  The ECB plan, outlined by President  Mario Draghi  on Aug. 2,
entails intervention in sovereign-bond markets in tandem with
 Europe ’s rescue funds -- in return for conditions.  Spain  and
Italy, the countries currently most vulnerable to contagion from
the crisis that began in  Greece  almost three years ago, have yet
to decide whether to seek help.  Draghi may announce details of the program, which faces
resistance from Germany’s Bundesbank, when the ECB’s Governing
Council meets on Sept. 6.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said yesterday at a
joint press conference in Berlin with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  that he was “very confident” the European Union will be
able to devise appropriate tools to safeguard its future. The
two leaders disagreed on whether the European Stability
Mechanism, the region’s permanent bailout fund, should have a
banking license that would allow it to tap funds from the ECB,
which Merkel said is “not compatible” with European treaties.  Banking License  A banking license for the ESM should “be seen in the
perspective of a broad mosaic,” Monti said. “Some things that
aren’t possible today under current conditions could become
possible tomorrow under different conditions.” Modifications to
the treaties can be asked for, “though changes should not be
made lightly,” he said.  Monti told daily Il Sole 24 Ore yesterday that  Germany 
would be scoring an “own goal” if it blocked plans for the ECB
to shore up government borrowing costs, as it could find itself
facing a serious inflation threat.  Italian 10-year bonds declined, pushing the yield on the
securities up three basis points to 5.80 percent as of 1:41 p.m.
in  Rome . The spread with similar-maturing German debt widened
seven basis points to 446 basis points. Today’s sale comes after
Italy yesterday sold 9 billion euros of 181-day Treasury bills
at the lowest rate since March. The country redeems 11.5 billion
euros in zero-coupon bonds tomorrow.  “A larger decline in average yields may have been expected
in face of supportive redemption and coupon flow,” Rabobank
strategist Lyn Graham-Taylor wrote in an e-mailed comment.  Rates more than halved at an auction of Spanish bills on
Aug. 28 amid expectations the central bank will move ahead with
its plan to lower borrowing costs. Merkel is scheduled to travel
to  Madrid  next week, where Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
is mulling a request for a second European bailout a month after
seeking 100 billion euros in loans for Spain’s banks.  “We expected today’s bid-to-cover to be slightly higher,”
Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at Newedge Group in
 London , said in a note. “However, if we consider that the
amount on offer was at the top of the target, the outcome is not
too bad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  