-- J&J Will Pay $181 Million to Settle Risperdal Ad Claims
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-08-30T19:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/j-j-will-pay-181-million-to-settle-risperdal-ad-claims.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  will pay $181
million to resolve claims by 36 states that it improperly
marketed and advertised the antipsychotic drugs Risperdal and
Invega.  J&J and its Janssen unit settled claims that it promoted
the drugs from 1998 through 2004 for uses not approved by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration. New York Attorney General
Eric Schneiderman said today the accord is the largest
multistate consumer protection-based pharmaceutical settlement.  “This landmark settlement holds the companies accountable
for practices that put patients in danger, and serves as a
warning to other pharmaceutical giants that they must play by
one set of rules,” Schneiderman said in a statement.  J&J agreed it won’t promote the drugs for off-label uses or
tout them falsely. The company said Aug. 2 that it has agreed in
principal with the U.S. to settle three False Claims Act
lawsuits. They involve Medicaid-related claims for Risperdal,
Invega and the heart-failure drug Natrecor, as well as kickback
allegations involving  Omnicare Inc. (OCR)  J&J will pay as much as $2.2
billion, according to people familiar with the matter.  The company, based in New Brunswick,  New Jersey , settled
“to resolve the concerns of the attorneys general under state
consumer protection laws and to avoid unnecessary expense and a
prolonged legal process,” it said in a statement.  J&J didn’t admit wrongdoing or pay a fine or penalty.  ‘Full Resolution’  “We have chosen this path to achieve a prompt and full
resolution of these state claims and to ensure we continue to
focus on our mission of providing medicines to meet the
significant unmet needs of many people who suffer from mental
illness,” Michael Yang, Janssen’s president, said in a
statement.  The states separately filed lawsuits that made similar
claims about how J&J made false and deceptive claims over
Risperdal and Invega, promoted them for off-label uses, misused
continuing medical education programs. The company promoted
Risperdal for  Alzheimer’s disease , dementia, depression and
anxiety, when it wasn’t approved for such uses, states claimed.  “Janssen promoted Risperdal for use in children, even
though Risperdal has not been established to be safe and
effective in children,” according to New York’s complaint.  Using speaker programs on unapproved uses, sham consulting
programs for physicians, and lucrative agreements with doctors
who prescribed off-label, J&J “sought to enhance Risperdal’s
off-label market penetration across a wide range of diagnoses
and patient populations,” according to Florida’s complaint.  ‘Sends a Message’  The agreement “sends a message to all pharmaceutical
companies that these practices will not be tolerated,” Florida
Attorney General Pam Bondi said in a statement.  Bondi said Janssen agreed to several steps over five years.
They include having policies to ensure that financial incentives
aren’t given to encourage off-label marketing; sales and
marketing employees can’t develop the medical contents of
responses to health-care providers; and it must describe the
effectiveness and risks of drugs in a balanced manner.  The U.S. has been probing Risperdal sales practices since
2004. J&J disclosed in August 2011 that it reached an agreement
to a misdemeanor criminal charge over Risperdal marketing.  The FDA approved Risperdal in 1993 for psychotic disorders
including schizophrenia. That market is limited, and Janssen
sought to sell Risperdal for bipolar disorder, dementia, mood
and anxiety disorders and other unapproved uses, according to
court filings. It was later approved for other uses.  $1.8 Billion  Judges or juries in  Arkansas ,  Louisiana  and  South Carolina 
have ordered J&J to pay a total of about $1.8 billion in damages
and fines over Risperdal marketing campaigns that were found to
have misled doctors and patients about the drug’s health risks
and effectiveness. The company is appealing.  In April, a judge in Arkansas ordered the drugmaker to pay
$1.2 billion in fines over Risperdal marketing. That verdict
came three months after J&J decided to end a trial in Texas over
the drug’s sales with a $158 million settlement.  In June 2011, a judge in South Carolina ordered J&J to pay
$327 million in penalties for deceptively marketing the
medicine. Ten months earlier, jurors in Louisiana ordered the
drugmaker to pay almost $258 million to state officials over
J&J’s Risperdal marketing campaign in the state. A Louisiana
judge later ordered the drugmaker to pay an additional $73.3
million in attorneys’ fees and costs.  Case Tossed  A Pennsylvania judge threw out the state’s case against J&J
and Janssen in June 2010 during trial. The state of  West
Virginia  dropped its Risperdal suit after a judge’s $3.95
million verdict in 2009 against J&J was reversed on appeal.  The settlement announced today includes the  District of
Columbia , as well as the 36 states.  The states are Alabama, Arizona, Colorado, Connecticut,
Delaware, Florida,  Hawaii ,  Idaho , Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
Kansas,  Maine , Maryland,  Michigan , Minnesota, Missouri,
Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North
Carolina,  North Dakota , Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania,
 Rhode Island ,  South Dakota , Tennessee, Texas,  Vermont ,
Washington, Wisconsin and Wyoming.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  