-- Japan Air Seeks $8.4 Billion in Top IPO Since Facebook
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-08-30T06:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/japan-airlines-seeks-8-4-billion-in-biggest-ipo-since-facebook.html
Japan Airlines Co. will seek as much
as 663 billion yen ($8.4 billion) in the largest initial public
offering since  Facebook Inc. (FB) , capping a state-backed turnaround
since it filed for bankruptcy protection in 2010.  Shares will be on offer at a price range of 3,500 yen to
3,790 yen, according to a statement today. That’s in line with
the indicative price of 3,790 yen announced earlier this month.
The carrier won’t get any of the sale proceeds as the 175
million shares are being sold by its government-backed parent.  JAL will be priced at about five times forecast earnings,
compared with 16 times for  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , Japan’s
largest carrier. The company is returning to the  Tokyo  stock
exchange after shedding a third of its workforce, scrapping
routes and retiring older planes in a restructuring that
returned it to profit.  “JAL is attractive compared with ANA,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees the equivalent of about $600 million in
assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “It’s
come out of a turnaround and slashed debts, so it’s in a good
position.”  The final price for the IPO, Japan’s second-biggest in more
than a decade, will be set on Sept. 10, according to the earlier
statement. The shares will begin trading Sept. 19. JAL will
surpass ANA as Japan’s biggest carrier by market value and as
the fourth largest worldwide behind Latam Airlines Group SA,
Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Air China Ltd.  ANA fell 0.6 percent to 177 yen in Tokyo trading. The
carrier, which also announced a share sale last month, has
fallen 18 percent this year, compared with a 6.3 percent gain
for the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  JAL Revival  JAL is returning to the stock market after a two-year
turnaround in  bankruptcy protection  that transformed it into the
world’s most profitable airline. The government drafted in Kazuo Inamori, the founder of electronics company  Kyocera Corp. (6971) , to
oversee the restructuring.  The plan was supported by a 350 billion yen investment from
state-backed Enterprise Initiative Turnaround Corp. of Japan.
The fund, which can only invest in companies for three years, is
selling its 97 percent stake in the IPO. It will get back more
than it invested, Inamori, who is now JAL’s chairman emeritus,
has said.  Japan IPOs  Companies have raised more than 130 billion yen in 24
priced IPOs in Japan this year, led by  Activia Properties Inc. (3279) ’s
94.3 billion yen sale in May. That’s little changed from a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Facebook
raised $16 billion in its  New York  IPO in May. The  shares  have
since fallen about 50 percent from the sale price.  JAL posted a record profit of 187 billion yen in the year
ended March more than twice that of Air China, the most
profitable listed carrier worldwide, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The airline is predicting a profit of 130 billion
yen this fiscal year, compared with 40 billion yen at ANA.  JAL has benefited from tax credits against past writedowns,
which have prompted complaints from opposition lawmakers.  ANA and JAL are both facing new competition in Japan from
three discount carriers that have started flights this year. JAL
owns a stake in one, Jetstar  Japan  Co., while the other two are
part-owned by Tokyo-based ANA.  The three newcomers all filled about 90 percent of domestic
seats during this month’s peak holiday season. JAL and ANA both
had load factors of less than 80 percent for flights within the
country, and both reported declines from a year earlier.  “If LCCs really becomes a sustainable business, then that
would put pricing pressure on legacy carriers,” said Tomofumi Noguchi, a Tokyo-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. “That
would be negative for stock prices.”  The new low-cost carriers are also lessening the appeal of
discount flight vouchers that JAL has pledged to give retail
shareholders because their fares may still be cheaper. The new
airlines have advertised prices about a third the cost of JAL
and ANA’s fares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  