-- Japan Stock Futures Fall on Europe Debt, Growth Concerns
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2012-08-30T23:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/japan-stock-futures-fall-on-europe-debt-growth-concerns.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures fell amid concern about a worsening of Europe’s
debt crisis and of a further slowdown in the global economy.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Canon Inc. (7751) , a Japanese
camera maker that gets almost 60 percent of its revenue from the
Americas and Europe, lost 1.1 percent from the closing price in
Tokyo. Shares of  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) , Japan’s biggest mill, may
be active after widening its first-half loss forecast. ADRs of
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s largest oil producer and the
world’s No. 1 mining company by market value, sank 1.3 percent
after prices of crude and metals declined.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 8,915 in Chicago yesterday, down from 8,970
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,910 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index fell 0.4 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
slipped 0.1 percent in Wellington.  “The  U.S. economy  has stopped deteriorating, but it’s far
away from having a strong rebound,” said Juichi Wako, a senior
strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc. “Uncertainty is
increasing in Europe, dragging down markets.”  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  slid 0.1 percent
today. The gauge lost 0.8 percent yesterday after a report
showed more Americans than forecast filed applications for
unemployment benefits last week, a sign the labor market is
faltering amid a slowing economy.  Consumer spending  in the U.S. rose 0.4 percent after being
little changed in June, Commerce Department figures showed
yesterday in Washington. That was less than the median estimate
of economists for a 0.5 percent gain.  Bernanke Speech  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to
speak tomorrow at a meeting of central bankers in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming, where he may discuss the economic outlook. Policy
makers have said they are prepared to provide new stimulus
“fairly soon” unless there is evidence of “substantial and
sustainable” improvement in the U.S. recovery, according to
minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July 31-Aug. 1
meeting. Policy makers are set to meet in September.  In Europe, a report showed economic confidence in the euro
area fell more than economists forecast to a three-year low in
August and Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said his
government would delay deciding whether to seek a sovereign
bailout until aid conditions are clear.  Crude oil for October delivery lost 0.9 percent to settle
at $94.62 a barrel, a two-week low, in New York yesterday. The
London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial metals
including copper and aluminum yesterday slid 0.5 percent,
falling for a third day.  Chinese Stocks  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S slipped 0.9 percent to 88.10 in New York
yesterday, the lowest level since Aug. 3, led by Yingli Green
Energy Holding Co., on concern the nation’s economic slowdown is
cutting into corporate earnings. Yingli, the world’s sixth-
largest silicon-based solar module maker, sank the most in four
weeks after ThinkEquity LLC recommended investors sell the
stock.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 8.3 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 29 through yesterday amid concern Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis will worsen and China’s economy is
slowing. The regional benchmark index traded at 12.4 times
estimated earnings compared with 13.6 times for the S&P 500
Index and a multiple of 11.5 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s Trade Ministry is scheduled to announce a report on
July industrial production today at 8:50 a.m. in Tokyo. Factory
output probably rose 1.7 percent from June, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  