-- Japan’s Industrial Output Unexpectedly Falls on Global Weakness
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-08-30T23:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/japan-s-industrial-output-unexpectedly-falls-on-global-weakness.html
Japan ’s industrial production
unexpectedly fell in July, adding to signs that faltering global
demand is undermining the economy’s recovery.  Production slid 1.2 percent in July from June, when it
advanced 0.4 percent, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today.
The median estimate of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
was for a 1.7 percent increase.  A slowdown in exports and the winding down of subsidies for
car purchases are dimming the outlook for manufacturing and
growth in the world’s third-biggest economy.  Bank of Japan (8301) 
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said on Aug. 24 that demand related
to reconstruction from last year’s earthquake and tsunami is
“gradually gaining momentum” and may help to sustain growth.  “Looking ahead, Japan’s economy will probably lose
steam,” Kohei Okazaki, an economist at Nomura Securities Co. in
 Tokyo , said before the report. “Overseas demand is slowing,
affecting production and capital spending.”  Japan’s government this week downgraded its economic
assessment for the first time in 10 months, citing weakness in
global demand. Exports fell the most in six months in July, a
finance ministry report showed last week. Separately, retail
sales dropped more than economists’ forecast in July, a report
showed yesterday.  A minority of analysts are forecasting the economy may
contract this quarter.  JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. forecasts a 0.3 percent
annualized decline in gross domestic product in the three months
through September, while BNP Paribas SA estimates a 0.9 percent
fall. The median estimate in a  Bloomberg News  survey compiled
this month was for 1 percent growth, partly supported by
earthquake reconstruction work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  