-- Jefferson County Seeks to Close Emergency Room for Poor
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-08-30T17:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/jefferson-county-seeks-to-close-emergency-room-for-poor.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama , which
last year filed the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy, is
fighting to close the emergency room of its money-losing
hospital for the poor.  The county today asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett to halt a lawsuit by the city of Birmingham, which seeks
to keep the emergency room open after Dec. 1, the day the county
plans to end in-patient care at Cooper Green Mercy Hospital.  Bennett indicated at today’s hearing that he may halt the
case when he issues a written ruling. He told lawyers for the
city that, “What I’m looking at is really an action to try to
control the operations” of the county, which isn’t allowed
under Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code .  The fight is the first time the county’s health-care
responsibilities have been part of its bankruptcy case. Most of
the focus up to now has been on cutting bond debt tied to the
county’s sewer system and replacing a wage tax that brought in
more than $60 million a year before it was voided by a state
court.  As health-care costs have risen, states have begun spending
more on health care for the poor than on primary-school
education, when all funds, including federal funds, are
considered, according to a report by the State Budget Crisis
Task Force cited by Bloomberg BNA, a division of Bloomberg that
tracks tax developments.  Birmingham Suit  Alabama, like most states, requires counties to provide
health care for the poor. Jefferson County will continue to meet
the state’s requirements, though not through Cooper Green’s
emergency room, Patrick Darby, an attorney for the county, said
in court today.  Birmingham sued the county in state court to try to keep
the hospital open. The case was temporarily put on hold until
Bennett decides whether to bar it while the county remains under
 bankruptcy court  protection.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  