-- Jindal Wants Expansion of Levee System That Guarded New Orleans
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-08-31T06:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/jindal-wants-expansion-of-levee-system-that-guarded-new-orleans.html
The $14.5 billion project after
 Hurricane Katrina  to improve New Orleans levees passed Isaac’s
test, the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers said.  Now, state and federal officials should expand the system
to protect low-lying areas throughout Louisiana, Governor  Bobby Jindal  said.  “Protecting Louisiana’s coast is good for the people of
Louisiana; it’s also good for the country,” Jindal, a 41-year-
old Republican, said during a news conference yesterday. “If
the proper flood-protection systems are built, we can protect
our people and our communities.”  Jindal, who has criticized  Barack Obama  for excessive
spending, used the occasion of the storm to press for federal
money for his state. Before Isaac hit, he said the Democratic
president wasn’t providing enough funding to cover the costs of
storm response. The governor wrote Obama a letter saying the
storm requires “full federal assistance for the state.”  Levees are crucial public works in south Louisiana, where
the  Mississippi River  meets the  Gulf of Mexico .  After Katrina flooded  New Orleans  and killed 1,800 people
in 2005, the corps found that the system of barriers was
inadequate. Lieutenant General Carl Strock, chief engineer of
the corps in 2006, told the  New York  Times that the corps
“missed something in the design.”  Higher Walls  The corps undertook a $14.5 billion project to raise and
strengthen levees. The greater New Orleans area now has about
350 miles of levees and floodwalls, including outer and inner
barriers, according to a June 2012 corps  fact sheet .  With the exception of some flood gauges that didn’t work,
the system operated as designed during Isaac, Rachel Rodi, a
corps in New Orleans, said in a telephone interview.  New Orleans Mayor Mitchell J. Landrieu said levees and
flood gates held, and pumping stations “did their jobs.”
Jindal also said he was satisfied.  “It does certainly appear, from everything we know, that
those levees passed that test,” he said.  There was flooding outside the system, including in
Plaquemines Parish, a region of 25,000 people southeast of New
Orleans where the Mississippi River meets the Gulf of Mexico.
Dozens of people were rescued from rooftops by boat after water
spilled over a local levee and flooded their with as much as 12
feet of water.  Aloft Again  U.S. Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana Democrat, said she
argued with the corps after Katrina that areas such as
Plaquemines should be included in the federal levee system.  “We argued and argued and argued, and now you can see the
result,” Landrieu told WWL-TV in New Orleans on Aug. 29. “It’s
heartbreaking to watch people have to climb up into their attics
on their roofs.”  While there probably will be discussion about a levee
expansion in the wake of Isaac, there’s no estimate of the
potential cost, Rodi said.  “At the end of the day, what the corps has to do is what
we are authorized and funded to do,” Rodi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in  Baton Rouge , Louisiana at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  