-- Jobless Claims in U.S. Unchanged Last Week at One-Month High
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-08-30T14:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/jobless-claims-in-u-s-unchanged-last-week-at-one-month-high.html
More Americans than forecast filed
 applications  for  unemployment benefits  last week, a sign that
progress in the labor market is faltering amid a slowing
economy.  Jobless claims were little changed at 374,000 in the week
ended Aug. 25, matching the upwardly revised figure from the
prior week, the Labor Department reported today in Washington.
The  median  forecast of 50 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
called for 370,000. The four-week moving average, a less
volatile measure, climbed to a six-week high.  Companies will probably remain concerned about the
possibility that taxes will rise and  government spending  will be
cut unless lawmakers act by January. Fiscal turmoil in the 17-member euro area and a slowdown in China may also prompt
employers to keeping payrolls lean.  Claims have “moved sideways most of the year,” said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at RBC Capital Markets LLC in New
York. “Hirings are what’s lacking at this point.”  U.S. stocks retreated, trimming the third straight monthly
advance for the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as
reports from Europe, Japan and South Korea intensified concern
the global economy is cooling. The  S&P 500  fell 0.8 percent to
1,399.18 at 10:29 a.m. in New York.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 363,000 to
380,000. The Labor Department revised the previous week’s figure
up from an initially reported 372,000.  Other reports today showed  consumer spending  climbed in
July for the first time since April and an index of  consumer
confidence  held close to a seven-month low last week.  Consumer Spending  Purchases increased 0.4 percent after being little changed
in June, Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington.
The median estimate of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 0.5 percent gain in so-called nominal sales.
Incomes climbed 0.3 percent for a third month.  A spokesman for the Labor Department said there was nothing
unusual in the jobless claims data last week.  Employers added 163,000 workers in July, the biggest gain
since February, according to the Labor Department jobs report
issued earlier this month. At the same time, the  unemployment
rate  climbed to a five-month high of 8.3 percent.  Unemployment has been above 8 percent since February 2009,
the longest stretch in the post-World War II era.  Today’s report showed the number of people continuing to
receive jobless benefits declined by 5,000 in the week ended
Aug. 18 to 3.32 million.  The  continuing  claims figure does not include the number of
Americans receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Extended Benefits  Those who have used up their traditional benefits and now
are collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by
about 52,150 to 2.28 million in the week ended Aug. 11.  The unemployment rate among people eligible for benefits
held at 2.6 percent, today’s report showed.  Twenty-two states and territories reported an increase in
claims, while 31 reported a decrease. State data are reported
with a one-week lag.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as companies accelerate hiring.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  is scheduled to speak
tomorrow in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, where he may discuss the
economic outlook. Policy makers have said they are prepared to
provide new stimulus “fairly soon” unless there is evidence of
“substantial and sustainable” improvement in the recovery,
according to minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July
31-Aug. 1 meeting. Policy makers are set to meet again in
September.  Getting ‘Nervous’  “When people get nervous about the macroeconomic
environment, they slow down spending,” said William Sullivan,
president and chief executive officer of  Agilent Technologies
Inc. (A)  in  Santa Clara ,  California .  “It’s not supply and demand. It’s not a normal
recession,” Sullivan said on an August 15 earnings call.
“Given the issues of the euro and what’s going to happen and
then you have this financial cliff in the U.S. in January,
complete political disagreement in  Washington , people are really
nervous.”  “If somebody agreed tomorrow to say that Europe is going
to do a euro bond and the U.S. was not going to have a financial
cliff in January, you would have a different outlook,” Sullivan
said. “It’s as simple as that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  