-- Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for August (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-30T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-august-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Growth in Tenth District manufacturing activity improved
moderately in August, and producers’ optimism continued to edge
higher. Price indexes were relatively stable, although the share
of producers planning to raise prices increased further. Several
respondents said the ongoing drought has negatively affected
their business, mainly through higher input costs and slower
sales for agricultural-related products.  The month-over-month composite index was 8 in August, up from 5
in July and 3 in June (Tables 1 & 2, Chart). The composite index
is an average of the production, new orders, employment,
supplier delivery time, and raw materials inventory indexes.
Manufacturing growth increased at most durable- and nondurable
goods-producing plants, particularly for chemical, metal, and
transportation products. Most other month-over-month indexes
also increased in August. The production index climbed from 2 to
7, and the shipments, new orders, and order backlog indexes all
moved back into positive territory. The new orders for export
index inched higher but remained below zero, while the
employment index dipped slightly from 6 to 2. Both inventory
indexes increased for the second straight month.  Growth in year-over-year factory indexes was mixed. The
composite year-over-year index edged down from 20 to 18, and the
new orders index also decreased somewhat. The  capital
expenditures  index fell for the first time in seven months,
while the new orders for exports index was unchanged. The
production index rose from 19 to 25, and the shipments, order
backlog, and employment indexes also improved over last month.
The raw materials inventory index dropped from 26 to 16, but the
finished goods inventory index increased for the second straight
month.  Most future factory indexes improved further after rebounding
last month. The future composite index edged up from 13 to 16,
and future production and shipments indexes increased notably
after no change last month. The future order backlog index
jumped from 3 to 14, while the employment index remained
unchanged. In contrast, the future new orders index eased
slightly from 22 to 21, and the future capital expenditures and
new orders for exports indexes also fell modestly. The future
finished goods inventory index rose from 5 to 10, and the raw
materials inventory index moved into positive territory.  Price indexes were mixed, though most changes were minimal. The
month-over-month finished goods price index posted no change,
while the raw materials price index increased for the second
straight month. The year-over-year finished goods index stayed
flat at 35, but the raw materials index decreased slightly to
its lowest level in nearly two years. The future raw materials
price index eased slightly after a big increase last month,
while the future finished goods price index continued to climb
higher, indicating more firms plan to pass recent cost increases
through to customers. 