-- Kenya’s Red Cross Urges End to Ethnic Fighting Ahead of Election
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-08-30T12:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/kenya-s-red-cross-urges-end-to-ethnic-fighting-ahead-of-election.html
Kenya faces increased ethnic
violence ahead of elections in March unless people with
political agendas stop instigating clashes that have killed 250
people so far this year, the Kenya Red Cross Society said.  The vote will be the first since December 2007, when a
disputed election sparked two months of fighting in which more
than 1,100 people died. The violence slashed economic growth and
led to a probe by the  International Criminal Court . Deputy Prime
Minister Uhuru Kenyatta, a member of the Kikuyu ethnic group, is
one of four Kenyans facing charges at the Hague-based court for
directing murder, displacements and clashes that pitted his
ethnic supporters against the Luo and Kalenjin communities. All
four men deny the allegations.  At least 64 people died this month when communities in the
Tana River delta and in the districts of Mandera and Wajir
fought over water and grazing land. The  United Nations  said
evidence suggests the violence is politically motivated.  “We have been warning Kenyans since January that unless
something is done we will see more and more pre-election
violence,” Abbas Gullet, secretary-general of the  Kenya  Red
Cross, said by phone yesterday from Nairobi, the capital.  Tensions are escalating over the way constituency
boundaries are being re-drawn and as ethnic groups and clans try
to undermine each other’s political power. “It’s clear this
election is being driven by ethnic politics, not policies or
individual candidates, and it shouldn’t be supported,” Gullet
said.  Mombasa Riots  A separate outbreak of violence this week in the second-
largest city of  Mombasa , site of  East Africa ’s busiest port, may
also shape the outcome of elections, Clare Allenson, an Africa
analyst with Eurasia Group, said in an e-mailed note.  Riots erupted in the city on Aug. 27 after the fatal
shooting of Aboud Rogo Mohammed, a Kenyan Muslim cleric accused
by the UN and U.S. of fundraising and recruiting for al-Qaeda-
linked militants in  Somalia .  Demonstrators described the murder as an execution by
security forces, although the police deny involvement in extra-
judicial killings. Three prison guards died in a grenade attack
on a truck carrying security personnel to calm protests at a
church that had been set on fire, the  Associated Press  reported.
Another person was hacked to death by a mob.  A measure of calm has returned to the city as security
increased for the arrival of President Mwai Kibaki today to
attend an annual agricultural fair.  Odinga Support  Faced with poor delivery of essential services and high
unemployment, voters in Mombasa, situated in Kenya’s Coast
province, may reconsider their support for presidential front-
runner  Raila Odinga , prime minister in Kenya’s unity government,
Allenson said. Kibaki has to step down after his second term.  “Odinga carried the Coast in 2007, but as local leaders
lay blame on the current coalition leadership over slow-moving
reform, especially of the police force, a space could open for
other candidates to gain ground,” she said.  Odinga is the preferred candidate for president with 34
percent support, according to an opinion poll of 2,000 Kenyans
by Ipsos-Synovate between April 6 and April 17. Kenyatta and
lawmaker  William Ruto , who is facing charges at the ICC, are
also bidding for the presidency.  Investors in Kenyan financial markets gauging the situation
aren’t panicking about the violence, Duncan Kinuthia, a dealer
at Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said in a phone
interview on Aug. 28.  Stronger Currency  “If investors felt this was a big risk the shilling would
go into a steep slide,” Kinuthia said. Kenya’s shilling
extended losses to a fourth day, declining 0.1 percent to 84.35
by 3:49 p.m. in Nairobi, on track for its lowest close in more
than five weeks.  Still, sentiment may change, Allenson said. “Should
instances of violence continue as elections near, key investment
projects will face increasing delay as investors, both domestic
and foreign, take a wait-and-see approach,” she said.  Inter-clan rivalry in some of Kenya’s most remote and
sparsely populated regions has been rife since colonial rule by
Britain, which ended in 1963, sparking attacks and reprisals
mainly over grazing land and water. Politicians have routinely
exploited long-standing tensions to gain power. A new
constitution adopted in a public referendum in August 2010 has
created more political seats, including county government
representatives and senators, for Kenyans to potentially fight
over, Gullet said.  “What we have seen in Tana River, Mandera, Wajir, it has
shocked the nation,” Gullet said. “These people have died as a
result of ethnic-politics. We need to bring temperatures down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  