-- Kinder Morgan El Paso Deal Harmed Investors, Lawyer Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-08-30T20:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/kinder-morgan-el-paso-deal-harmed-investors-lawyer-says.html
Kinder Morgan  Inc.’s El Paso Corp.
unit should face claims that former executives harmed investors
by allowing a $21.1 billion takeover of the oil-pipeline
provider, a lawyer argued.  El Paso Pipeline Partners LP (EPB)  is a natural gas partnership
part-owned by El Paso. Investors in the partnership were damaged
by Kinder Morgan’s $29.91-a-share acquisition because they will
no longer have access to El Paso Corp.’s pipeline assets,  Sarah
Lopez , an attorney for partnership unitholders, said to a judge
today.  Kinder Morgan’s takeover completely changed the
partnership’s business model and robbed it of value, Lopez told
Delaware Chancery Court Judge  Sam Glasscock III  in Georgetown.
The judge reserved his decision on whether the case should
proceed.  Kinder Morgan officials said last month that second-quarter
 profit  fell as the pipeline company cut the value of some of the
assets it’s selling to obtain regulatory approval for the El
Paso acquisition. Net income dropped to $153 million from
$230 million a year earlier, company officials said.  Kinder Morgan completed its acquisition of Houston-based El
Paso in May, two months after a Delaware judge refused to block
a shareholder vote on the takeover.  In an Aug. 3 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, Houston-based Kinder Morgan called the investors’
lawsuit meritless and said the company would fight it.  Asset Shift  The investors said El Paso Pipeline Partners, also known as
EPB, was set up in 2007 as a publicly traded partnership to
which the parent company shifted ownership of pipeline assets
for tax purposes. El Paso “raised capital through the sale of
EPB interests,” the unitholders said in an April court filing.  After the takeover, El Paso’s pipeline assets were no
longer exclusively available to the partnership and were slated
to be transferred to an entity owned by Kinder Morgan, the
investors said.  “The non-controlling EPB unitholders have not benefitted
from the transaction, but instead have lost substantial value,”
they said in the filing.  The investors said  Douglas Foshee , El Paso’s chief
executive officer, and other top managers and directors enjoyed
big paydays as a result of the takeover while the value of the
unitholders’ stakes declined.  Foshee’s handling of takeover negotiations was criticized
by both investors and a judge overseeing the case because of his
conflicting interests in the deal.  $90 Million  Foshee was slated to  receive  more than $90 million from the
Kinder Morgan acquisition while El Paso’s 11 non-employee
directors stood to get a total of $224.2 million for their
company shares, partnership investors said in court filings.  El Paso executives owed a duty to partnership investors not
to approve a sale “that would benefit them at the expense of
non-controlling EPB unitholders,” the partnership investors
said.  “This is not about one or two assets that didn’t drop down
to the partnership,” Lopez argued at today’s hearing. “This is
about a complete change in the business model.”  El Paso officials said in their filings that they didn’t
owe fiduciary duties to investors under the partnership
agreement and that the unitholders can’t prove they have been
damaged by Kinder Morgan’s takeover. They are asking Glasscock
to throw out the suit.  ‘Subordinates’ Interests  The partnership agreement “subordinates the interests of
the partnership to the interests of El Paso and El Paso’s
 stockholders ,” the company said in a May 21 court filing.  The agreement also places specific limits on the fiduciary
duties El Paso executives owe partnership investors and never
imposed a legal duty on the pipeline company to shift assets to
the entity, the company said.  The agreement specifically says there is “no obligation to
drop down assets to the partnership,”  Brad Davey , one of El
Paso’s lawyers, told Glasscock today.  The case is Hite Hedge LP v. El Paso Corp, CA No. 7117,
Delaware Chancery Court (Georgetown).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  