-- Koch Explains Political Giving as `Right to Speak Out’
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-08-30T23:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/koch-explains-political-giving-as-right-to-speak-out-.html
Billionaire industrialist  David Koch 
said the money he gives to outside politically active groups
like Americans for Prosperity is a way for him to “speak out.”  At a rare and brief impromptu press conference today during
an AFP event in his honor during the  Republican National
Convention , a reporter asked him about being labeled an enemy of
the  Democratic Party .  “We live in a country that believes in free speech,” said
Koch, 72. “I have a right to speak out.”  Republican outside groups have spent more than $141 million
in this year’s presidential race, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based campaign-finance
research group. Outside groups helping President  Barack Obama 
have put up about $79 million.  The co-owner of  Koch Industries , based in Wichita, Kansas,
Koch said his primary political interest is promoting fiscal
responsibility. Last month, he opened his Southampton, New York,
home for a fundraiser for Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney .  He and brother  Charles Koch , 76, typically give to
nonprofits that don’t identify their donors. The two are the
seventh and eighth richest people in the world, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index , together worth more than $70
billion.  The Koch brothers helped start and give money to Americans
for Prosperity, which plans to spend $100 million for this
election year. The group this month purchased about $25 million
in television advertisements that specifically call for people
to vote against Obama.  Art Pope  Koch is attending the convention as a New York delegate. He
and fellow Americans for Prosperity board member Art Pope, a
businessman and North Carolina delegate, were honored as
entrepreneurs at a reception held by the nonprofit.  During a mixer with at least 200 attendees that included
cocktails and appetizers, Pope told reporters that outside
groups are weakening the  Republican Party .  “I’m not sure that’s a bad thing,” he said, noting that
Americans for Prosperity calls out both Republican and Democrat
elected officials if they do not vote in line with the group’s
agenda of lower taxes and smaller government.  He was asked whether the Koch brothers are unfairly
portrayed as the singular force behind Americans for Prosperity,
which gives money to state-level Tea Party groups in addition to
helping candidates.  “Yes, the media and the left-wing bloggers in particular
like to paint us as an astro-turf front group,” he said. Pope
said 2 million people -- Americans for Prosperity calls them
“activists” -- participate in some way. AFP officials have
said thousands of people other than the Koch brothers contribute
money to the group. “We do combine paid media with our
grassroots activism. They reinforce each other.”  Koch Photos  Koch was greeted as a celebrity when he entered the
reception with an entourage of at least half a dozen people.
Members of the media snapped photos while attendees posed for
photos with him and circled to shake his hand.  Lawmakers in attendance included Wisconsin Senator  Ron Johnson , who was elected with the support of Tea Party activists
and Koch Industries, and retiring  Arizona  Senator John Kyl. This
week, a reporter snapped a photo of Koch dining with Johnson in
the private room of a Tampa restaurant.  Johnson said reporters have asked him what the two
discussed over dinner. His response to that question: “We
talked about saving America.”  About an hour into the mixer, Americans for Prosperity
President  Tim Phillips  kicked off the remarks portion of the
evening by introducing Koch and Pope.  “I know President Obama may attack them,” he said, “but
we love them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  