-- Nadal Said to Get $1.5 Million for Two Hours of Tennis at MSG
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-08-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/nadal-said-to-reap-1-5-million-for-two-hours-of-tennis-at-msg.html
Rafael Nadal  will be paid $1.5
million to play an exhibition tennis match at  Madison Square
Garden (MSG) , a person with direct knowledge of the contract said.  The 11-time Grand Slam singles champion and the third-
ranked player on the ATP World Tour will face 2009 U.S. Open
champion Juan Martin del Potro at the March 4 event.  Serena Williams , a 14-time major champion, will play top-
ranked  Victoria Azarenka  in the first match of the sixth annual
event, billed this time as BNP Paribas Showdown.  The $1.5 million for a two-hour performance in an event
that often produces more showmanship than shot-making is
$400,000 less than the men’s and women’s champions will receive
at the U.S. Open, the season’s final two-week-long Grand Slam
tournament at the National Tennis Center in New York. The 26-
year-old Spaniard is skipping this year’s Open because of
nagging knee injuries. The championship started Aug. 27 and is
scheduled to end Sept. 9.  “It’s one-man rock-star money,” Marc Ganis, president of
Chicago-based industry consultant Sportscorp Ltd., said in a
telephone interview, adding that only a handful of athletes in
tennis and golf could command such a fee. “Everything flows
from that -- sponsorship, tickets, everything.”  The person familiar with the contract spoke on condition of
anonymity because the fee amounts are to remain private.  Stacey Escudero, a spokeswoman for Madison Square Garden,
and Benito Perez-Barbadillo, Nadal’s spokesman, declined to
comment on the player’s fee. The person familiar with the
contract didn’t discuss agreements for the other players.  It will be Nadal’s first appearance at Madison Square
Garden, which houses basketball’s Knicks and hockey’s Rangers
and which is in the midst of a $1 billion renovation.  Common Payments  It’s common for marquee athletes such as Nadal and 14-time
golf major winner  Tiger Woods  to be paid appearance fees for
exhibition events or made-for-TV specials.  John Isner , the top-ranked American man at No. 10, said in
an interview at the National Tennis Center that big-dollar
tennis exhibitions are more commonplace in Europe and the Middle
East than the U.S. He also said that only a few players beside
Nadal, such as top-ranked  Roger Federer  and No. 2 Novak Djokovic,
could command such a fee.  “If someone wants to pay him that, they are obviously
getting something in return,” Isner said. “They’re not trying
to lose money on an event.”  Isner, 27 years old and never ranked higher than No. 9 in
the world, said he plays exhibitions occasionally. He didn’t
discuss his pay.  2012 Edition  This year’s MSG event featured Federer, the winner of a
record 17 Grand Slam singles titles, against 2003 U.S. Open
champion  Andy Roddick , and four-time Grand Slam winner  Maria Sharapova  versus  Caroline Wozniacki , a former No. 1-ranked
player on the WTA tour.  Max Eisenbud , Sharapova’s agent with IMG Worldwide Inc.,
declined in an e-mail to disclose her fee for this year’s event.  Nadal is ranked No. 8 on Sports Illustrated’s list of
international endorsers this year, taking in $29 million in
prize money and endorsements. Federer topped the list at $51.4
million. Sharapova was the highest-paid female on the
international list at $26.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  