-- Naira Heads for Best Month in Six as Oil Companies Sell Dollars
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-08-30T13:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/naira-heads-for-best-month-in-six-as-oil-companies-sell-dollars.html
The naira gained, heading for its
best monthly performance since February, as  oil companies  sold
dollars and on continued inflows into  Nigeria ’s sovereign debt
market.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer appreciated
as much as 0.2 percent and traded 0.1 percent stronger at 158 a
dollar as of 2:27 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The naira has climbed
1.7 percent this month, the second-best performer in Africa.  “The naira is supported by foreign exchange sales from oil
companies in the  interbank market  which are likely to also
continue tomorrow,”  Samir Gadio , a London-based  emerging
markets  strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in an e-
mailed reply to questions. “Continued foreign capital flows
into the fixed-income market have also supported the unit.”  The oil industry is the second major source of dollar
supplies in the country after the  Central Bank of Nigeria , which
offers dollars at auctions on Mondays and Wednesdays and through
interbank trading to maintain exchange-rate stability.  The yield on Nigeria’s 7 percent domestic bonds due October
2019 dropped 53 basis points to 14.97 percent, according to
yesterday’s data on the Financial Markets Dealers Association
website. Yields on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due
January 2021 increased one basis point to 4.9 percent today.  Nigeria’s domestic bonds are being considered for addition
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s government bond emerging market index
series on Oct. 1, according to a note obtained from the bank.  “Confidence has improved in the foreign exchange market in
recent weeks,” said Gadio. “There is certainly a strong case
for increased foreign portfolio inflows.”  Inflation Rate  Central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said on Aug. 23 that
the inflation rate may not rise as high this year as the
regulator previously forecast after prices were little changed
at 12.8 percent in July. The central bank predicted on Jan. 31
it would reach as high as 14.5 percent after the government cut
a gasoline subsidy in the same month.  Nigeria’s  foreign reserves rose  to a two-year high of $38
billion, according to Aug. 24 data compiled by the Abuja-based
central bank. The country’s benchmark  Bonny Light crude  has
gained 25 percent since a low this year in June.  Ghana ’s cedi was up 0.5 percent to 1.9305 a dollar in
Accra, the capital, the biggest rise on a closing basis since
Aug. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  