-- Norway’s Oil Industry Faces Cost Jump as Finds Lure Explorers
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-08-30T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/norway-s-oil-industry-faces-cost-jump-as-finds-lure-explorers.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
Dong Energy A/S and other explorers face rising costs in Norway
as the biggest crude finds in almost 40 years rekindle interest
in exploring off the Nordic country’s shores.  The discoveries are driving demand, pushing up prices for
equipment and services and potentially jacking up commitments
for licenses, Soeren Gath Hansen, chief for exploration and
production at Dong, a Danish oil explorer, said in an Aug. 29
interview in Stavanger, Norway.  “The competition is stiffer now, which is good for Norway
-- or complicated for the rest of us,” he said, comparing  oil
companies  to lemmings. “Everybody just runs in the same
direction, even if there’s a cliff.”  Finds such as the Johan Sverdrup deposit, which could hold
as much as 3.3 billion barrels of oil equivalent, have renewed
optimism in  Europe ’s second-largest oil producer after a decade
of falling crude production. Investments are estimated to reach
a record 194 billion kroner ($33 billion) next year, according
to the statistics bureau, also driven by an almost three-fold
increase in the price of oil over the past three years.  “It’s clear that there’s some tightening in the market,
and that normally results in cost pressures,” Martin Tiffen,
head of Norway for French oil producer Total, said in an
interview. Total will seek contractors not based in Norway as
one of the “ways around” the cost increase, he said.  High Wages  Norway was already struggling with costs to sustain an oil
industry that has helped build the world’s third-richest nation
per capita. Drilling is 40 percent to 45 percent more expensive
than in neighboring U.K., meaning companies are drilling less
and resources are being left in the ground, a government-
appointed committee concluded in an Aug. 16 report.  Norwegian oil professionals have annual pay checks
averaging $180,300 -- more than double the global average,
according to a study published by Hays Oil & Gas this year. A
strike over pay and pensions at the end of June and beginning of
July was ended by the government through forced arbitration as a
total close loomed. The strike had disrupted 15 percent of oil
production and 7 percent of gas output, according to Norway’s
Oil Industry Association.  Job Cuts  Statoil (STL)  is now considering cutting as many as 500
administrative jobs in Norway, Jannik Lindbaek Jr, a company
spokesman said by phone yesterday. “We see a potential for cost
reductions.”  The report on Norway’s rig capacity advised authorities to
consider changes in the industry’s wage regime and to ease
regulatory differences for rigs in the U.K. to work in Norway.  “I think that would be helpful,” Tiffen said.  Norway’s Oil and Energy Minister Ola Borten Moe said to
reporters yesterday that the country “needs to control costs,”
declining to comment directly on the commission’s conclusions.  David Loughman, head of Shell’s operations in Norway, said
yesterday that there are “multiple opportunities” for the
industry in  Norway  after “very significant” discoveries and
with the work to increase recovery from existing fields.  “If the supply chain does develop on that sort of scale, I
don’t know, I can’t speak for all the other operators in the
projects and what they’re going to do, but clearly, as we all
know, there will be pressure,” he said.  Honey Pot  According to Jarand Rystad, managing partner at consultant
firm Rystad Energy, cost pressures are unlikely to be as severe
as in 2005-2008 because of the weaker global economy.  “We will get less price inflation than we did in the last
boom,” he said. “Because then price inflation was almost 100
percent over four, five years.”  Norway is now opening new areas in the  Barents Sea  in the
Arctic, which is home to 72 of the 86 blocks nominated for the
next licensing round.  Dong has interests both in the Arctic and the  North Sea ,
where drilling has begun at the Lupine prospect near Johan
Sverdrup. Operator Statoil ASA said this week that a find at
Lupin could be “high impact,” defined by the company as
containing at least 250 million barrels of oil equivalent.  “All the bees are around this pot of honey,” Gath Hansen
said. Dong sees the Barents Sea off northern Norway as “most
exciting” in the long term, he said. “We would have loved to
be in the Johan Sverdrup and some of the other finds, but
basically we are thinking long term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo on  at
 jbergman@bloomberg.ne  