-- Norway Won’t Tolerate Persistent Krone Gains, Qvigstad Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-08-30T06:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/norway-won-t-tolerate-persistent-krone-gains-qvigstad-says-1-.html
Norges Bank Deputy Governor Jan F. Qvigstad signaled that policy makers in the second-largest
Nordic economy won’t accept persistent strength in the krone and
warned speculators against testing the bank’s resolve.  “If the krone is persistently strong that is, in
isolation, an argument for a lower  interest rate ,” Qvigstad
said in an interview in Oslo yesterday. There’s “large”
volatility in the krone, which can make it difficult to “make a
profit” from the strength of the currency, he said.  The bank kept the main interest rate unchanged yesterday at
1.5 percent for a third meeting, following two cuts since
December to curb krone gains that have hampered exports and kept
inflation below the bank’s 2.5 percent target. The krone, which
has emerged as a haven from  Europe ’s debt crisis, soared to a
nine-year high against the euro this month as  Norway ’s oil
wealth and fiscal strength spurred a capital influx.  The central bank signaled it will keep its benchmark rate
unchanged until sometime between December and the “summer,”
when tightening will commence to cool domestic demand. Europe’s
second-largest oil exporter is benefiting from record petroleum
investments which, coupled with low rates, has fueled a boom
that’s kept registered unemployment below 3 percent, sent wages
higher and pushed  house prices  to records.  Further Delay  “If the krone appreciation continues, in October the bank
will announce a further delay to timing of the next hike,”
Bjoern-Roger Wilhelmsen, chief currency strategist at Swedbank
First Securities ASA, said in an e-mailed reply to questions.  The bank said yesterday that the “import-weighted krone
exchange rate is somewhat stronger” than predicted in June.
Policy makers had predicted the import weighted-exchange rate
would probably strengthen 2 percent by 2014. The weighted krone
index has risen about 1 percent since June 20 to 86.32 today,
compared with June forecasts for 87.75 this year and 85.75 in
2014. A lower index value indicates a strengthening.  The krone jumped yesterday after policy makers indicated
they were sticking to plans to raise rates. It has risen 6.1
percent against the euro since the start of the year and 2.8
percent against the dollar.  It weakened 0.1 percent to 7.2983 per euro and gained 0.1
percent against the dollar to 5.8152 by 8:26 a.m. in Oslo.  “The market is extremely focused on the krone but I think
that’s a bit exaggerated,” Erica Blomgren, chief strategist for
Norway at  SEB AB (SEBA)  in Oslo, said in reply to e-mailed questions.
“Norges Bank has since June ‘accepted’ the krone will be
strong.”  No Target  Norges Bank will publish new forecasts on Oct. 31.  Policy makers have emphasized their reluctance to widen the
rate gap to Europe, where the  European Central Bank  cut its main
refinancing rate last month by a quarter point to a record-low
0.75 percent. Norway, which isn’t a European Union member, is
backstopped by a $625 billion sovereign-wealth fund and boasts
the biggest budget surplus of any AAA rated nation.  “We don’t have any target for the krone,” Qvigstad said
in the interview yesterday. “The interest rate on foreign
currencies matters for the krone.”  Norwegian exporters are struggling as currency gains raise
the cost of their goods. Employers such as the world’s second-
biggest newsprint maker  Norske Skogindustrier ASA (NSG)  and solar
company  Renewable Energy Corp. (REC)  ASA have cut jobs in response.  Business Coping  Still, the strong krone has helped keep inflation in check
even as growth expands.  Annual underlying inflation , which
adjusts for taxes, fees and energy prices, was 1.3 percent in
July. Inflation has undershot the bank’s 2.5 percent target
since mid-2009.  Forward rate agreement showed investors pared some bets on
lower rates. Three-month forward rate agreements maturing in
December rose two basis points yesterday and traded at 2.07
percent by 8:37 a.m. in Oslo. Contracts expiring in March traded
at 1.94 percent. The FRAs settle to the three-month Norwegian
interbank offered rate, which was 2.05 percent yesterday. The
difference to the deposit rate is now 55 basis points, compared
with an average of 75 basis points over the past five years.  “For the time being, businesses are coping, because many
have hedged themselves against shorter term krone variations,”
Trade and Industry Minister Trond Giske said in an interview
yesterday in Stavanger. “But on the long term, a very strong
krone against the euro will be a problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  