-- Obama Weighs Broad Program to Defend Networks From Cyber Attacks
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-08-30T04:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/obama-weighs-broad-program-to-defend-networks-from-cyber-attacks.html
President  Barack Obama  might create
a broad new program to protect vital government and private
 computer networks  from cyber attacks, according to a draft
document being circulated in his administration.  The government would continuously collect and disseminate
information about cybersecurity threats in a new approach to
combating attacks, according to the document. The administration
is weighing taking action instead of waiting for Congress to
pass cybersecurity legislation.  The draft represents “early” discussions about how to
update  a 2003 presidential directive  for protecting the most
critical U.S. assets and “is not close to being done,” White
House spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The administration and Congress have spent much of the past
year discussing ways to prevent cyber attacks that could cripple
U.S. telecommunication networks, banks, pipelines and electric
grids. The Senate failed to advance comprehensive cybersecurity
legislation backed by the administration after Republicans
objected it would be too costly and burdensome for companies.  “If the Congress is not going to act on something like
this, then the president wants to make sure that we’re doing
everything possible,” John  Brennan, Obama’s counterterrorism
adviser, said earlier this month.  The draft document outlines a vision for sharing
information among the  Homeland Security  Department, Defense
Department, U.S. intelligence agencies and companies that own or
operate critical computer networks.  Threat Coordination  The Department of Homeland Security would be in charge of
defending federal, non-military networks and would coordinate
efforts to protect private-sector networks, according to the
draft.  One issue that the draft doesn’t clearly explain is how
much authority DHS would have to tell businesses what they must
do to protect their computer systems from attack. The document
says only that the department would plan “requirements for
vulnerability and risk assessments.”  Two coordination centers would be created within DHS, one
for physical assets and another for cybersecurity. “Together,
these centers shall be the federal government’s focal point for
situational awareness and actionable information to protect the
physical and cyber aspects of critical infrastructures,”
according to the draft.  Constant Picture  The goal would be to have “a near-real-time common
operating picture” for threats to critical infrastructure and
“strong cooperation” between the government and companies,
especially energy and communications companies, according to the
document.  The Obama administration also is considering issuing more
stringent cybersecurity requirements through an executive order,
Hayden said.  Presidential directives typically address national security
or foreign policy matters. They are issued by the National
Security Council and may be classified. The directives carry the
same weight as executive orders, which deal with management and
operations of the executive branch.  Senate Intelligence Committee Chairwoman  Dianne Feinstein ,
a California Democrat, has said the administration should issue
a cybersecurity order.  “While an executive order cannot convey protection from
liability that private sector companies may face, your
administration can issue cybersecurity standards and provide
technical assistance to companies willing to take voluntary
steps to improve their security,” Feinstein wrote in  an Aug. 28
letter  to Obama.  “You can also direct the intelligence community and the
Department of Homeland Security to provide as much information
as possible to the private sector about cyber threats, including
classified information,” she wrote  The Senate bill number is  S. 3414 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  