-- Lockhart Says Fed Faces ‘Close Call’ on Additional Easing
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-08-30T14:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/lockhart-says-fed-faces-close-call-on-additional-easing.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the central bank has a tough
decision on whether to add further stimulus to promote a
stronger economic recovery.  “I think it is a close call, really,” Lockhart, who votes
on  monetary policy  this year, said today in a CNBC interview
from Jackson Hole, Wyoming. “I am not overly concerned with the
longer-term costs of more action but at the same time I see
limited benefit from more action.”  Many Fed policy makers said additional stimulus would
probably be needed soon unless the economy shows signs of a
durable pickup, according to minutes of their most recent
meeting released on Aug. 22. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who last
month said a third asset-purchase program was an option, has an
opportunity to update his policy outlook tomorrow in a speech to
the Kansas City Fed’s annual  Jackson Hole  symposium.  If job growth were to fall persistently “well below
100,000 a month” or there were “signs of disinflation” that
could lead to falling prices, “then there wouldn’t be much of a
question about policy,” Lockhart said in the televised
interview.  The central bank still has the ability to push interest
rates lower, which might, for example, lead to  mortgage rates 
edging down and qualifying more borrowers for loans, the Atlanta
Fed president said.  Record Lows  Still, interest rates have been near record lows for years,
and that hasn’t translated into a strong recovery, Lockhart
said.  “When I talk to business people, they say we have never
seen interest rates so low,” Lockhart said. “That doesn’t
necessarily mean it is a big incentive to borrow. That is a
little bit of the problem we are dealing with.”  The  U.S. economy  appears to be growing at about a 2 percent
annual rate, he said.  “That is very modest growth,” Lockhart said. “It is not
the kind of growth that is likely to bring great progress in
bringing down unemployment. Inflation has been well behaved. In
recent quarters, it is a little over the Fed’s target of 2
percent.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.9 percent to
1,398.08 at 10:51 a.m. in  New York , while the yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note declined 0.03 percentage point
to 1.62 percent.  Fed officials are scheduled to meet next month as slowing
improvements in the job market and a stalling expansion raise
the odds for more stimulus.  Bernanke has said options for the Fed include more asset
purchases and cutting the  interest rate  the Fed pays on reserves
banks keep with the central bank. The Fed has kept its benchmark
interest rate near zero since 2008 and has bought $2.3 trillion
in securities.  Lockhart, a former Georgetown University professor, has led
the Atlanta Fed since 2007. The Atlanta Fed district includes
 Alabama , Florida, Georgia, and portions of Louisiana,
 Mississippi , and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  