-- Oil Drops as Gulf Output to Resumes After Isaac
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-08-30T20:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/oil-drops-as-gulf-output-to-resume-after-isaac.html
Oil dropped to a two-week low as
producers worked to restore  Gulf of Mexico  output after
Hurricane Isaac passed.  Prices fell 0.9 percent as Isaac’s threat to offshore
production eased as the system weakened to a tropical storm over
Louisiana. Oil also declined after 374,000 Americans filed
 applications  for unemployment benefits last week, more than
forecast. Crude extended losses as drops in equities accelerated
and the dollar rebounded against the euro.  “When they go out to the rigs they’ll see nothing’s really
been damaged, and that means within three or four days you’ll be
back to business as usual,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market
strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis ,
which oversees $1.4 billion. “The new normal is that claims
don’t go below 300,000 and unemployment stays elevated.”  Oil for October delivery dropped 87 cents to settle at
$94.62 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
have declined 4.3 percent this year. Prices are 7.4 percent
higher in August, heading for the biggest monthly gain since
February.  Brent oil for October settlement rose 11 cents to $112.65 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Isaac has halted 95 percent of U.S. oil production in the
Gulf and 73 percent of natural-gas output, the  Bureau of Safety
and Environmental Enforcement  said today.  Restarting Production  Eni SpA (ENI)  said it may restart production in the Gulf
tomorrow, with employees returning as soon as today, if an
inspection shows there was no damage to assets.  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  said it expects to start restaffing locations in
the central Gulf tomorrow and the eastern Gulf on Sept. 1.  BP
Plc (BP/) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Williams Cos. said they are assessing
offshore facilities before returning workers there.  “I imagine that people will get back to work in the Gulf
now that the storm has passed and it seems the damage is
minimal,” said Bill Baruch, senior market strategist at
 Iitrader.com  in Chicago.  Isaac pounded the New Orleans area on the seventh
anniversary of  Hurricane Katrina . Two other systems, Hurricane
Kirk and Tropical Storm Leslie, strengthened in the Atlantic
Ocean today, though neither was forecast to threaten land,
according to the National Hurricane Center.  Gulf Refineries  Placid Refining Co. LLC restarted its Port Allen,
Louisiana, refinery early today, according to an e-mailed
statement from the company. Five Louisiana refineries remained
shut in the Gulf and another five were running at reduced rates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “As long as refineries are not running, it just means more
crude is getting backed up,” said Carl Larry, president of Oil
Outlooks & Opinions LLC in New York. “We are not in an
oversupplied market, but we are definitely in a market where
enough crude is available.”  Oil  inventories  increased 1 percent last week to 364.5
million barrels, the first gain in five weeks, the Energy
Department reported yesterday.  Last week, 374,000 Americans filed  applications  for
 unemployment benefits , more than forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of economists. The jobless claims were higher than the 370,000
expected by economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  unemployment rate  in the U.S. climbed to a five-month
high of 8.3 percent last month, according to the Labor
Department.  Equities Drop  Oil prices  also fell as stocks declined as reports from the
U.S. and Europe intensified concern that the global economy is
cooling down. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.8
percent.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  is scheduled to speak
tomorrow at the Kansas City Fed’s economic-policy conference in
 Jackson Hole , Wyoming, amid speculation that the central bank
will add to monetary stimulus to spur the economic recovery.  “I don’t think there is going to be a stimulus
announcement tomorrow,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “The
market is looking for a catalyst to reignite its rally.”  The dollar gained as much as 0.3 percent against the euro
after dropping as much as 0.3 percent. A stronger dollar reduces
oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 357,990
contracts as of 4:22 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 368,240
contracts yesterday, 32 percent below the three-month average
and the lowest level since May 25. Open interest was 1.51
million, the most since May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  