-- Oil Declines for a Second Day as Stockpiles Rise, Storm Weakens
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-08-30T12:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/oil-declines-for-a-second-day-as-stockpiles-rise-storm-weakens.html
Oil dropped for a second day in New
York as stockpiles unexpectedly rose and Hurricane Isaac
weakened, reducing the threat to offshore platforms and rigs in
the  Gulf of Mexico .  Futures slipped as much as 0.6 percent. Crude inventories
Crude inventories increased  3.8 million barrels  last week, data
from the Energy Department showed. They were forecast to
decrease 1.75 million barrels, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Isaac was downgraded to a tropical storm after striking
the Louisiana coast as a hurricane. U.S. economic data yesterday
dimmed expectations that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will immediately announce a third round of monetary
stimulus during a speech tomorrow in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  “Isaac doesn’t seem as if it will inflict any serious
damage to oil production in the Gulf, and everybody is waiting
for Jackson Hole, which I think will be a non-event,” said
Michael Poulsen, an analyst at Global Risk Management in
Middelfart,  Denmark . “The medium and long-term trend as I see
it is still up.”  Oil for October delivery slid as much as 58 cents to $94.91
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It rebounded by 0.1 percent before declining to
$95.34, down 15 cents, at 1:45 p.m. London time. The contract
yesterday dropped 84 cents to $95.49, the lowest close since
Aug. 27. Prices are 8.3 percent higher this month, headed for a
second monthly gain.  Brent oil for October settlement rose 73 cents to $113.27 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
was at $17.89, up from $17.05 yesterday.  Uptrend Channel  Oil’s decline in  New York  may stall at $94.95 a barrel,
along the bottom of a short-term uptrend channel on the daily
chart, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This channel
started from the June 28 drop to $77.28, the 2012 intraday low.
Buy orders tend to be clustered near technical-support levels.  Isaac was about 125 miles (205 kilometers) northwest of
Louisiana’s largest city with top winds of 45 miles per hour,
down from 80 mph at landfall, the National Hurricane Center
said. The system was moving northwest at 8 mph.  Companies halted about 95 percent of oil production in the
Gulf of Mexico and 72 percent of natural-gas output, the Bureau
of Safety and Environmental Enforcement said. Six Louisiana
refineries were shut, idling 6.7 percent of U.S. capacity,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “WTI fell after an unexpected increase in U.S. crude
inventories and on expectations that damage to U.S. Gulf
production from Isaac would be minimal,”  Mark Pervan , the head
of commodity research at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  in Melbourne, said in a note today.  Fuel Supplies  U.S. gasoline supplies dropped  1.51 million barrels  last
week, the Energy Department report showed. They were forecast to
decline 1.45 million barrels, according to the median estimate
of 12 analysts in the Bloomberg survey. Distillate stockpiles, a
category that includes diesel and heating oil, climbed 873,000
barrels compared with a projected 200,000 barrel increase.  The  U.S. economy  continued to expand “gradually” in July
and early August as improving housing and retail sales helped
outweigh a weakness in manufacturing, the Fed said yesterday in
its Beige Book business survey.  Members of the  International Energy Agency  may release oil
stockpiles from emergency reserves in September to prevent
higher prices from derailing the global economic recovery,
according to Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. Production losses from
Hurricane Isaac are equivalent to the drop in supplies after
sanctions were imposed on Iran in July,  Gordon Kwan , Mirae’s
head of energy research in  Hong Kong , said in an e-mailed
report.  Venezuela Fire  Gasoline was little changed near the lowest level this week
after  Venezuela  said it’s almost ready to resume operations at
its Amuay oil refinery, the nation’s biggest, after a four-day
fire. Petroleos de Venezuela SA will end the process of cooling
the area affected by the blaze today, Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said on state television yesterday. The plant can
process as much as 645,000 barrels of crude a day.  Gasoline for September delivery was at $3.1105 a gallon, up
0.3 percent, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract
reached $3.205 on Aug. 27, the highest intraday level in four
months, amid concern the fire and Isaac would curb supplies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  