-- Oil Set for First Weekly Drop Since July as Gulf Output R
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-08-31T07:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/oil-set-for-first-weekly-drop-since-july-as-gulf-output-to-start.html
Oil headed for the first weekly
decline since July in New York as producers worked to restore
 Gulf of Mexico  output and refiners prepared to resume operations
after Hurricane Isaac passed.  Futures were little changed after dropping to the lowest
close in two weeks yesterday. Companies including  BP Plc (BP/)  and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said they are assessing offshore facilities before
returning workers. Isaac was downgraded to a tropical depression
after pounding the New Orleans area on the seventh anniversary
of Hurricane Katrina. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
is scheduled to speak today at a symposium where in 2010 he
foreshadowed economic stimulus measures by the bank.  “Oil went up and came back very quickly because the U.S.
was prepared for the hurricane,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the
chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity
newsletter in Sydney who predicts New York crude has support at
$94.50 a barrel. “It’s going to have to be bigger than Katrina
to have an impact. We’ll see what Bernanke has to say.”     Oil
for October delivery was at $94.79 a barrel, up 17 cents, in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 3:12
p.m. Singapore time. The contract yesterday dropped 0.9 percent
to $94.62, the lowest close since Aug. 15. Prices are down 1.4
percent this week, the first weekly decline since July 27.
Futures have gained 7.7 percent this month.  Brent oil for October settlement rose 24 cents to $112.89 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate
was at $18.07, from $18.03 yesterday.  Gulf Output  Oil in  New York  has technical support along the middle
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, at about $92.89 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures
rebounded from this indicator about four weeks ago. Buy orders
tend to be clustered near chart-support levels.  Isaac was about 95 miles (150 kilometers) south-southwest
of  Little Rock ,  Arkansas , the National Hurricane Center said in
an 11 p.m. New York time advisory yesterday. The storm, which
made landfall as a hurricane on Aug. 28, was moving north at 10
miles per hour, with maximum sustained winds of 30 mph.  Companies halted 95 percent of U.S. oil production in the
Gulf and 73 percent of natural-gas output, the Bureau of Safety
and Environmental Enforcement said yesterday.  Eni SpA may restart production in the Gulf today if an
inspection shows there was no damage to assets, according to the
company. Anadarko Petroleum Corp. said it expects to start
restaffing locations in the central Gulf today and the eastern
Gulf tomorrow. Royal Dutch Shell Plc plans to begin begin
redeploying personnel and starting operations today.  Hurricane Katrina  Four oil refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast, capable of
processing 882,000 barrels a day of crude and representing 5.1
percent of the country’s capacity, remained shut after Isaac
passed.  Exxon Mobil Corp. has begun returning the Baton Rouge
refinery in  Louisiana  to normal operations, the company said on
a community hotline. It has also begun the startup process at
the Chalmette plant, it said. The two sites can process a
combined 704,200 barrels a day of crude.  Placid Refining Co. LLC started its 59,000 barrel-a-day
Port Allen, Louisiana, refinery early yesterday, according to a
statement from the company.  Hurricane Katrina  damaged oil rigs and refineries in the
Gulf of Mexico in 2005. The storm’s waters also broke through
levees, leaving 80 percent of New Orleans underwater and more
than 1,800 people dead.  Gasoline for September delivery was at $3.08 a gallon, down
0.1 percent, on Nymex. The contract reached $3.205 on Aug. 27,
the highest intraday level in four months. The September future
expires today and the more-active October was at $2.9098.  Amuay Refinery  The motor fuel gained earlier this week on concern that
Isaac and an Aug. 25 fire at Petroleos de Venezuela SA’s Amuay
refinery, the country’s largest, would disrupt supplies. The
company planned to finish cooling the area affected as early as
yesterday and start resuming operations, according to Oil
Minister  Rafael Ramirez .  Fed Chairman Bernanke is scheduled to speak today in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . Policy makers have said they are prepared
to provide new stimulus “fairly soon” unless there is evidence
of “substantial and sustainable” improvement in the recovery,
according to the minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s
meeting that ended Aug. 1. The group is set to meet in
September.  Crude in New York may decline next week on speculation that
Gulf of Mexico output and refinery operations will quickly
resume after Hurricane Isaac, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Seventeen of 29 analysts, or 59 percent, forecast prices
will decrease through Sept. 7. Eight respondents, or 28 percent,
predicted that futures will increase and four said there will be
little change in prices. Last week, 57 percent of analysts
projected an increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  