-- Hollande Business Policies Faulted by French Executives
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y ,   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-08-31T12:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/hollande-s-business-policies-slammed-by-french-corporate-leaders.html
French corporate leaders criticized
Socialist President  Francois Hollande ’s government for policies
they say hurt companies already battered by a slowing economy
and decades of business-unfriendly practices.  “Each week, steps voted in parliament are slowing public
and private actions,” Guillaume Poitrinal, chief executive
officer of  Unibail-Rodamco SE (UL) ,  Europe ’s largest publicly traded
property owner, said yesterday at a conference organized by the
French employers’ group Medef on the outskirts of Paris. “We
have a frenzy of regulations. In an accelerating world, we need
more flexibility for companies, more flexibility on labor, and
we need quicker public action.”  Entrepreneurs and executives say businesses are being
squeezed by higher corporate taxes and more stringent policies
as Hollande’s government struggles to keep its pledge to cut the
 budget deficit . The move comes as the government faces an
economy that hasn’t grown in three quarters, joblessness at a
13-year high and a record trade deficit.  “We’re suffering from this backdrop that’s becoming more
and more constraining,” said Benoit Potier, CEO of industrial
gas maker  Air Liquide SA. (AI)  “We need a stabilization of the
regulatory framework; we need to invest in education and
training. Broadly speaking, we need a pro-business climate.”  Hollande, who won office this year on campaign promises of
social justice and countering Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
with growth, is being forced to address corporate complaints
that  labor laws  are too restrictive, wage costs and social
charges too high and corporate taxes too steep.  ‘Tax Champions’  “French companies are the most taxed in Europe; we’re the
champions of corporate taxes,”  Laurence Parisot , the head of
Medef, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “This is a
major issue for us. Also, social laws are so complex, our
companies are not able to adapt to changes in the world.”  Hollande has proposed increasing taxes for big companies
and cutting levies for small and mid-sized businesses. He wants 
to impose a 75 percent levy on income above 1 million euros 
a year and special taxes on banks and  oil companies .  France  put 
into effect this month a tax on financial transactions.  The president has also pledged to repeal 29 billion euros
($36.5 billion) of tax breaks over the next five years. He wants
to increase the total tax level -- payroll and profits -- to
46.9 percent in 2017 from 45.1 percent in 2012.  At a conference last month in Aix-en-Provence,  Louis Gallois , former chief executive officer of European Aeronautic,
Defence &  Space Co. (EAD)  and the government’s point person on
competitiveness advocated a cut in corporate taxes and charges.  Labor Costs  “We need to create a competitiveness shock,” he said,
calling for cuts in taxes and social charges of as much as 50
billion euros. “It has to be quite massive.”  France has the euro area’s second-highest unit cost of
labor after  Belgium , according to an April 2012 Eurostat report.
Its cost of 34.20 euros an hour compares with  Germany ’s 30.10
euros,  Italy ’s 26.80 euros and 20.60 euros for  Spain .  The expense has made companies reluctant to hire, while the
economic slowdown has left almost 3 million people jobless.  “We have to talk about labor costs,” Tiremaker Cie 
Generale des Etablissements Michelin CEO Jean-Dominique Senard 
said at the Medef conference today.  Companies also say one of the biggest obstacles to hiring
is the “Code du Travail,” a 3,200-page labor rulebook that
decrees everything from job classifications to leave for
training to the ability to fire.  Michelin has decided to build a plant in the U.S.
for the first time in 35 years even though labor costs there are
higher because of the business “environment and climate,”
Senard said, complaining about the long-drawn process in France
to lay off workers or modify contracts.  Funding Woes  “It’s not the public sector that’s going to create jobs in
the years to come, it is companies,” Stephane Richard, CEO of
 France Telecom SA (FTE) , said at the conference yesterday. “Making
the environment conducive to business is key. Employment is the
most urgent of the urgent subjects.”  In the absence of such policies, even France’s coveted
welfare system is in danger, said Unibail-Rodamco’s Poitrinal.  “The welfare system won’t survive without greater
flexibility and quicker public action.”  The government’s policies need to make investing in
companies more appealing, said Jean-Louis Chaussade, CEO of  Suez
Environnement (SEV) , Europe’s second-biggest waste company.  “We must give companies funds to allow them to develop,”
he said. “Small shareholders are being hammered. Dividends are
hammered, and we’re going to push savings into risk-free
passbooks, which isn’t the way to go. To create jobs in France,
we need French companies, hence we need capital.”  Government Reassurance  On the industrial front, companies question the
government’s plans to cut the share of nuclear energy in the
country’s electricity production. Nuclear energy provides more
than three quarters of French power production and helps keep
the country’s electricity prices among the lowest in Europe.  “Nuclear energy is clearly less expensive for us,” Cie.
de  Saint Gobain (SGO)  Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Andre de Chalendar said in November.  Energy Minister Delphine Batho defended the government’s
plan at the conference yesterday, saying, “we will lower the
proportion of nuclear in electricity production. We won’t get
out of nuclear because we will need it for a long time but at
the same time we need to diversify our sources. We can keep
nuclear jobs and add jobs in solar and wind.”  Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  and Labor Minister Michel Sapin also sought to reassure businesses.  ‘Quicker, Simpler’  “Competitiveness isn’t a dirty word,” Moscovici said as
he pledged to set up a framework favorable to investment and
innovation. “Government services must also work in a quicker
and simpler way.”  He said the 2013 budget to be presented in the week of
Sept. 24 will have measures for companies. He also said social
spending can’t be covered entirely by payroll taxes, promising
to address the issue next year.  France needs rules that “allow companies to adapt,” Sapin
said in a Bloomberg TV interview, adding that he’s discussing
adaptability with companies. It’s about the “ability of
companies to adapt to a changing world, changing technology and
economic shocks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  