-- Hong Kong Retail Sales Grow at Weakest Pace Since Global Crisis
-- B y   P a u l   P a n c k h u r s t
-- 2012-08-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/hong-kong-retail-sales-grow-at-weakest-pace-since-global-crisis.html
Hong Kong ’s  retail sales  grew at the
slowest pace in July since the global financial crisis as
consumer sentiment weakened and mainland Chinese visitors pared
spending on  luxury goods .  Sales rose 3.8 percent, the least since September 2009 and
down from an 11 percent gain in June, a government statement
showed yesterday. The  median forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey
of nine economists was for an 8.8 percent increase and none
predicted such a small gain.  China ’s slowdown is rippling through Hong Kong by dragging
on exports, weighing on confidence and encouraging the millions
of mainlanders who visit each month to be more cautious in their
spending. That has hurt sales of luxury goods including watches
and jewelry in the former British colony.  “Mainland visitors may be spending less on high-end luxury
goods,” said Donna Kwok, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in
Hong Kong. “Hong Kong  consumer confidence  has also weakened
recently, weighed down by continued turbulence in global
financial markets.”  Watch, clock and jewelry sales gained 0.9 percent in July
from a year earlier, compared with an increase of 51 percent in
the same month of 2011.  “Most of the mainland customers are cutting their spending
and businessmen don’t need as many luxury watches to give out as
gifts as they did a year ago, due to a sharp decline in business
activities in the mainland,” Stanley Lau, managing director of
Global Timepieces Ltd. and deputy chairman of the Federation of
Hong Kong Industries said last month.  The Hong Kong government said in yesterday’s statement that
consumer sentiment seems to have “turned more cautious in view
of the deterioration in the external economic environment.”  The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  of stocks closed at the
lowest level in a month yesterday on concern that the U.S.
Federal Reserve may hold off on additional stimulus measures as
the global economy falters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Beijing at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  