-- Hong Kong to Boost Home Sales, Favor Locals as Prices Surge
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-08-31T08:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/hong-kong-to-accelerate-home-sales-limit-foreigner-purchases.html
Hong Kong  will boost the supply of
homes and give preference to local buyers as it seeks to cool
housing prices that have surged to the world’s most expensive,
fueled by record-low  interest rates  and Chinese investment.  Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying announced a 10-point
package yesterday that included speeding up the approval of
permits for private project sales, selling public units that
were originally intended for rent, and drafting policies that
will give preference to local buyers.  The measures are the toughest since the government in June
last year increased down-payment requirements, and the strongest
move yet to quell concerns about a surge in non-local purchases,
particularly by mainland investors that account for a third of
new home buying in the city and helped drive prices up 85
percent since the beginning of 2009. The measures don’t go far
enough, said Wong Leung-sing, associate research director at
Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  “It’s a nice gesture, but it won’t have a real impact on
prices,” said Wong. “Accelerating sales and increasing supply
wouldn’t solve the problems. They haven’t addressed the real
issue and that’s the market is flush with cash.”  The seven-member  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) , which tracks
developers, including  Sun Hung Kai (16)  Properties Ltd. and  Cheung
Kong  (Holdings) Ltd., rose 1.1 percent at the close of trading
in Hong Kong. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  fell 0.4 percent.  Wealth Gap  Sun Hung Kai, the city’s biggest builder, rose 1.5 percent
to HK$100.60, while  Cheung Kong (1) , controlled by  Li Ka-shing , Hong
Kong’s richest man, gained 1.6 percent to HK$105.50. Henderson
Land Development Co., controlled by billionaire Lee Shau-kee,
gained 2.1 percent to HK$47.70.  “These policies will help stabilize prices,” said Lee Wee Liat, a Hong Kong-based analyst at BNP Paribas. “They’re
focusing on flushing out the supply to the market. Developers
will try and speed up sales but will be moderate with pricing.
The important thing is they’re not trying to stifle demand.”  Leung, a surveyor, took over as Hong Kong’s leader last
month on a pledge to address a widening income gap and housing
affordability.  Home prices  have increased 12 percent this year, bringing
the gain to 47 percent since October 2009, when Leung’s
predecessor,  Donald Tsang , first introduced measures to prevent
the formation of an asset bubble. Prices recovered from the
second half of last year even as the government lowered its
growth forecast for 2012 and as  China’s economy  slows.  Street Protests  Tens of thousands of protesters took to the streets in a
largely peaceful demonstration in July, hours after Leung
pledged to do more to address poverty and boost public housing.
The demonstrators turned out to draw attention to issues from
the wealth gap and human rights in China to demands for a higher
 minimum wage .  “The Hong Kong community has issues with housing,” Leung
said at a briefing yesterday. “The administration is a major
supplier and major planner. I want to stress we have the
responsibility.”  The restriction on purchases by people outside of Hong Kong
may be incorporated into land sale agreements, said Leung,
adding that the measures will be implemented “when necessary.”  Buyers from other parts of China made up 36.8 percent of
all new sales by value in the first quarter, down from 37.9
percent in the previous three months, according to  Midland
Holdings Ltd. (1200)  The proportion reached 53.9 percent in the third
quarter last year, the realtor said.  The measures “are the right direction,” said Ronnie Chan,
Chairman of  Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101) , the Hong Kong developer
with almost half of its assets in other Chinese cities.
“There’s no quick fix, but I can see these measures show the
government’s determination.”  Boosting Supply  Swire Properties Ltd. sold a 6,755-square-foot apartment in
a Hong Kong building designed by  Frank Gehry , the architect of
Bilbao’s Guggenheim Museum and the Walt Disney Concert Hall in
Los Angeles, for HK$430 million ($55 million), the developer
said yesterday.  Hong Kong is the world’s costliest place to buy an
apartment, according London-based broker  Savills Plc (SVS) , which
compiles an index of 10 global cities, including the U.K.
capital, Moscow and New York.  The government expects developers to supply 65,000 private
units over the next three to four years and will make available
75,000 public housing units, Housing Secretary Anthony Cheung
said at the briefing yesterday.  Cheung Kong, the city’s second-largest developer by market
value, this month paid HK$9.63 billion for a site in the
northwest Tsuen Wan area, 37 percent higher than the estimate by
surveyors, in its first acquisition this year.  Falling Transactions  Transactions in the city have eased this year as economic
growth in Hong Kong and China slowed. The number of homes sold
in the first seven months fell 22 percent to 46,910 from the
same period a year earlier, according to data released by the
 Land Registry .  Hong Kong  home prices  will probably remain little changed
for the rest of 2012, Vincent Cheung, a director at property
broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc., said in a briefing this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  