-- Lonmin, Workers to Resume Talks on Strike End Next Week
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-08-31T16:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/lonmin-workers-to-resume-talks-on-strike-end-next-week.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third-biggest
platinum producer, will next week resume government-mediated
talks with workers and unions to end a strike that has shut its
Marikana complex in South  Africa  for three weeks.  “The issues that have been discussed are of a vast nature
and have required several processes and various engagements,
with different constituencies in the process,” the parties said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement following the second day of
talks in Rustenburg, northwest of Johannesburg. Worker
representatives will report back to their colleagues and
discussions will continue at 2 p.m. on Sept. 3.  Most of the 28,000 miners at Marikana have stayed away
since police shot dead 34 protesters at the operation on Aug. 16
after 10 people died in fighting during the illegal strike by
about 3,000 rock drillers that started Aug. 10. Union rivalry
and pay disputes are stoking unrest at platinum mines in  South
Africa , which has the world’s largest known reserves.  The drillers are going directly to the company with
demands, saying the dominant  National Union of Mineworkers ,
South Africa’s largest labor group, didn’t take their request to
raise wages to 12,500 rand ($1,491) a month to management.  Rock-drill operators earn “just shy of 10,000 rand” a
month, Lonmin said Aug. 24. In addition, they can earn
performance bonuses which average 1,500 rand “but some are in
the order of 6,000 rand.”  Worker attendance at Marikana declined to 5.7 percent
today, Lonmin said in an e-mailed statement.  AMCU Quits  Gold Fields Ltd., the world’s fourth-biggest producer of
the metal, said all 12,000 workers at the East section of its
Kloof-Driefontein operation, Africa’s largest gold-mining
complex, started an illegal strike on Aug. 29. It’s the biggest
unprotected stoppage in at least three years.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ’s Rustenburg operation, the
world’s biggest mine of the metal, had a stoppage of as long as
six weeks from mid-January when rock-drill operators started a
strike, demanding higher pay. The company said conflict caused
by the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union’s
efforts to recruit NUM members caused the strike.  AMCU, which has about 5,000 members at Marikana’s Karee
mine and isn’t included in a two-year wage agreement that ends
in October next year, was excluded from yesterday afternoon’s
talks, President Joseph Mathunjwa said.  “I won’t be part of the process,” he told reporters in
Rustenburg yesterday. “Let them continue as they wish.”  Lonmin has lost 2,500 ounces of platinum daily by closing
Marikana, which comprises 96 percent of the company’s output,
hampering its ability to meet the conditions set by creditors on
its borrowings.  Murder Charges  The 270 workers arrested for violence at Marikana have been
charged with the murders of the 44 killed because they were in
crowds that confronted the police with weapons, National
Prosecuting Authority spokesman Frank Lesenyego said. Their
trial has been postponed to Sept. 6, he said by phone.  Justice Minister  Jeff Radebe  demanded the NPA give him the
reasons for applying an apartheid-era law used to crack down on
protesters to charge the miners. Nomgcobo Jiba, the acting
national director of public prosecutions, will decided on the
suitability of the charges after receiving a report from the
North West provincial prosecutor, who laid the charges, her
office said in an e-mailed statement.  While South Africa needs to deal urgently with wide
inequality that may foment revolution, the violence at Lonmin
won’t deter investment in the industry, Deputy President  Kgalema Motlanthe  said.  Shares Drop  “Mining is unique in the sense that you can’t take it to
another country,” Motlanthe said. “Investors know that. They
are also aware that the industrial relations in South Africa
actually produce a very stable work milieu. We don’t expect that
investors would be put off or discouraged by these tragic
developments in Marikana.”  Labor Minister Mildred Oliphant met with striking workers
on Aug. 28. She mediated a meeting between Lonmin and  labor
organizations  including the NUM, the emerging AMCU, Solidarity,
and the Congress of South African Trade Unions on Aug. 24 to try
to resolve the standoff with striking employees.  Platinum, used in jewelry and cars, has climbed 9.5 percent
since the shooting, and was trading at $1,527.63 an ounce by
4:42 p.m. in  London . The rand gained 1.1 percent to 8.3785
against the dollar. Lonmin dropped for a fourth day, losing 2
percent to 573 pence in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  