-- OPEC to Trim Crude Exports on Refinery Halts, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-08-30T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/opec-to-trim-crude-exports-on-refinery-halts-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will trim crude exports by about 1 percent
this month as refiners in the U.S. and Europe halt plants for
maintenance, according to Oil Movements.  OPEC, responsible for about 40 percent of the world’s oil
supplies, will export 23.82 million barrels a day in the four
weeks to Sept. 15, compared with 24.03 million a month earlier,
the tanker-tracker said today in its weekly e-mailed report. The
data exclude Angola and Ecuador.  “Sailings are declining because we’re at the end of the
summer season,”  Roy Mason , the researcher’s founder, said today
by telephone from Halifax, England. “The crude that will be
loaded up until the end of next month will be arriving in the
maintenance season.”  Exports from OPEC are falling less the seasonal norm,
reflecting strong demand in the U.S. and Europe, he said.  Brent
crude  rallied more than 7 percent this month to trade at $113.09
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange today in  London .  “The message from prices is that prompt oil is scarce,”
Mason said.  Shipments from the  Middle East , including non-OPEC members
Oman and Yemen, will fall by 1.2 percent to 17.46 million
barrels a day in the four-week period, the report showed.  Oil on board tankers will average 479 million barrels, down
4.1 percent from 499 million in the month to Aug. 18, the
researcher said. Oil Movements calculates the volumes by
tallying tanker-rental agreements. Its figures exclude oil held
on board vessels used as floating storage.  OPEC comprises  Algeria , Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The group plans to meet next on Dec. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  