-- Lover Faces Midlife Crisis; Great ‘Carousel’: U.K. Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-09-01T08:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/lover-faces-midlife-crisis-great-carousel-u-k-stage.html
There are moments in bad plays and
operas where characters do all the things they’re supposed to,
like fall in love and stab each other, without any good reason.
Wagner called them “effects without causes.” Take note,
playwright April de Angelis.  De Angelis’s comedy “Jumpy” is playing at the  Duke of
York’s Theatre  in  London . It’s the story of Hilary (Tamsin
Greig), a fifty-something left-liberal mother who has to cope
with a stroppy teenage daughter and a crumbling marriage.  Tilly, the daughter, gets pregnant. She goes missing for a
while. She argues with her overprotective mother.  Meanwhile Hilary has a fling with a preposterously vain
actor called Roland and worries about the direction of feminism.
She drinks a bit too much. Events trundle along one after the
other without structure or cumulative power.  Near the end of Act 1, Hilary’s loud middle-aged friend
Frances tries a musical burlesque routine during an otherwise
sedate family holiday. Her leather catsuit, feathers and nipple-
tassels look out of place on a chilly English beach and she gets
all the moves wrong. The inappropriateness is funny, you see.  Maybe the routine actualizes the debate about female
empowerment through sexualized behavior. Maybe. More likely the
author read that comedies should have a moment of slapstick, so
she dutifully provides one. No matter that it’s dramatically
unrooted and subsequently unexploited. It’s an effect: who needs
a cause?  Gun Discovery  Later Tilly finds a gun. Chekhov, who knew a thing or two
about cause and effect, famously remarked on the dangerous
pitfalls of including guns in plays.  Tilly fires the gun accidentally. No-one gets hurt. The gun
is never mentioned again. All over in five minutes. Guns are the
sort of thing that happen in other plays to generate a bit of
conflict, so we get one here too.  As an effect, it’s not very effective.  The characterization is mostly one-note. The men are either
vain, uncommunicative, or callow. Perhaps it’s not surprising
that the acting relies on bold colors rather than shades.  Greig, who’s on stage almost all the time, exploits a range
of frowns and double-takes which are just about exhausted by the
end. Bel Powley plays the obstreperous 15-year-old Tilly more
like a moody 12-year-old who sighs, tuts and flumps into chairs.  Doon Mackichan tries hard with the role of Frances, and
still doesn’t find much depth or roundedness to flesh her out.  Nina Raine’s production takes place in a minimalist gray
living room, which occasionally slides apart to reveal a bedroom
or a view of the sea (sets Lizzie Clachan).  One razor-sharp line gives the piece a quick lift.
“Barbie? She’s an Aryan produced by 11,000 women in  Guangdong
province . Go figure!” The rest needs a bit more work.  Rating: **.  Barbican’s Carousel  There’s much more fun to be had in an enjoyable production
from  Opera North  of the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical
“Carousel” at the Barbican.  Director Jo Davies keeps the action of the first part of
the story, about the dreamy Julie Jordan falling in love with a
violent fairground barker called Billy, in its original setting
of 1915.  The merry-go-round of the title is created on a stage
revolve using moveable poles strung with lights (sets  Anthony
Ward ). It appears in a blink and dissolves again just as
quickly: a beautiful touch.  Celestial Hollywood  Davies provides another neat twist by setting the second
part of the story, which takes place 15 years later in heaven,
in a celestial version of a Hollywood film lot. The otherworldly
nature of the action is beautifully captured by the 1930s dream-
factory setting.  It’s so good it almost makes the cloying homespun
sentimentality of the final scenes bearable. Almost.  The singing is excellent, just as one would hope from an
opera company production. Katherine Manley (Julie) has a fresh
limpid voice with superb control, and Sarah Tynan (as Julie’s
friend Carrie) uses her fluttery soubrette sound charmingly.  Michael Todd Simpson is a fine Billy, and conductor James
Holmes keeps things fluid. It’s great to see that Rodgers’s
sophisticated score holds its own in the operatic setting.  If the  performers  aren’t quite as good at acting as
singing, they’re still a creditable bunch. All in all, it’s
worth taking the ride on this attraction.  Rating: ****.  “Jumpy” is at the Duke of York’s Theatre. Information:
 http://www.atgtickets.com/shows/jumpy/duke-of-yorks  or +44-844-
871-7615.  “Carousel” is at the Barbican through September 15.
Information:  http://www.barbican.org.uk  or +44-20-7638-8891.  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend
and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 