-- Pakistani Court Delays Bail of Girl Arrested Under Blasphemy Law
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-08-30T06:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/pakistani-court-delays-bail-of-girl-arrested-under-blasphemy-law.html
A judge in  Pakistan  delayed the bail
hearing of a Christian girl accused of burning pages of the
Koran as he sought details on a medical report that put her age
at 14.  The girl was arrested Aug. 20 on a complaint by a neighbor
in a slum area of Islamabad, the capital. Desecrating the holy
text is a crime that can bring punishments of life in prison, or
even death, under Pakistan’s controversial blasphemy law.  “We need further clarification from the concerned medical
board,” Judge Raja Jawad Hassan said during a bail hearing
today, postponing the case until Sept. 1. Rao Abdur Raheem, a
lawyer for the complainant, argued that the medical report had
been “manipulated” to show that the girl is under age and
couldn’t be tried in an adult court.  The incident has created panic among some members of the
minority faith, who say they fear being  attacked . About 100
Christians have set up a camp in a park in Islamabad, claiming
their lives will be in danger if they return to their homes, the
Dawn newspaper reported today.  Tahir Naveed Chaudhry, representing the girl, said medical
tests showed her mental state lagged her age.  The blasphemy law was passed in 1987 under the army rule of
General Muhammad Zia ul-Haq as part of his policy of building a
more explicitly Islamic state in Pakistan. While no one has been
executed by the state under the law, killings over alleged
blasphemy cases have included seven Christians amid riots in
2009 in Gojra, Punjab.  Salman Taseer, the governor of Pakistan’s Punjab province,
was shot dead by one of his bodyguards last year after he called
publicly for changes to the country’s blasphemy law.  Controversy over the law escalated in 2010 after a court
used it to sentence a Christian woman, Aasia Bibi, to death. The
government of President Asif Ali Zardari expressed readiness to
pardon Bibi and consider changes to the law, which religious
conservatives have used to conduct a “reign of terror” against
minorities, according to the independent Human Rights Commission
of Pakistan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Dubai at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  