-- Paramount Asks Judge to Uphold Puzo ‘Godfather’ Contract
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-08-30T21:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/paramount-asks-judge-to-uphold-puzo-godfather-contract.html
Paramount Pictures Corp., the maker
of the films based on Mario Puzo’s novel “The Godfather,”
asked a judge to reject an attempt by the author’s estate to
terminate its contract with the studio.  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount sued  Anthony Puzo , Mario’s son and
executor, in February to prevent the publication of a new sequel
to “The Godfather,” claiming it wasn’t authorized. Puzo
countersued in April to cancel the contract, saying Paramount
had breached it.  “There is no affirmative obligation of Paramount’s that
can be said to be breached here,”  Richard Kendall , a lawyer for
the studio, told U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan at a hearing
today in  Manhattan  on a motion to dismiss Puzo’s claim. “All
Paramount has done is assert and affirm its rights under the
contract.”  The first “Godfather” film came out in 1972 and won
Academy Awards for best picture and adapted screenplay, for
which Puzo shared the credit.  Francis Ford Coppola  directed the
three “Godfather” movies.  Paramount contends that it owns the book and movie rights.
Anthony Puzo claims that the Los Angeles-based studio breached a
1969 agreement with his father. The contract reserved certain
rights, including book publishing, for the author, the estate
said in court filings. Mario Puzo died in 1999.  ‘Actual Breach’  “If you demand rights you don’t have, you’re repudiating
the contract,” Bertram Fields, a lawyer for Puzo’s estate, told
the judge. “They called publishers and said, ‘Don’t publish
this book. They don’t have the rights.’ That’s an actual
breach.”  After the hearing, Fields told reporters that if the
contract is terminated, Puzo’s heirs may approach other studios
about making films based on the sequel novels. The judge said
she will rule later on Paramount’s motion.  Fields said  Mario Puzo  received only $50,000 from Paramount
for the first “Godfather” film. He said Puzo had contributed
“$100 million in value” to Paramount and that the studio made
$1 billion from the “Godfather” rights. “It saved the
studio,” Fields said.  He also told reporters that Paramount paid Puzo millions of
dollars for writing the screenplays for the second and third
“Godfather” movies.  ‘Godfather Returns’  “The studio has tremendous respect and admiration for
Mario Puzo, whose novel “The Godfather” was acquired in 1969
and helped spawn one of the most celebrated film trilogies of
all time,” Dade Hayes, a spokesman for Paramount, said in an
e-mailed statement. “As we have said before, we have an
obligation to and will protect our copyright and trademark
interests.”  Paramount said in its complaint that after Puzo died, the
company agreed to allow Bertelsmann AG’s  Random House  to publish
a single Godfather sequel, “The Godfather Returns,” which came
out in 2004.  The estate published another novel, “The Godfather’s
Revenge,” in 2006 without Paramount’s approval, the studio
said. Paramount sued after the estate announced a plan to
publish a third sequel, “The Family Corleone,” this year.  Sequel Published  That sequel, written by Ed Falco, was published in May by
Grand Central Publishing. Under terms of an interim settlement
between Paramount and Puzo, proceeds from the book will be put
in escrow pending the outcome of the litigation, according to
court papers.  “The Family Corleone” reached No. 15 on the  New York
Times fiction best-seller list , said Nick Small, a publicist
with Grand Central Publishing, a unit of Paris-based Hachette
Livre SA. He declined to disclose its sales.  Paramount claimed Puzo’s estate infringed its copyright by
publishing the novel and infringed its trademark with the design
of the book.  The case is  Paramount Pictures  v. Puzo, 12-01268, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  