-- Pernod Names Chairman, Targets Alexandre Ricard as CEO
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-08-30T08:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/pernod-names-chairman-targets-alexandre-ricard-as-ceo.html
Pernod Ricard SA (RI) , France’s biggest
distiller, started a process to promote Alexandre Ricard to the
dual role of chairman and chief executive officer following the
death this month of his uncle Patrick Ricard.  Alexandre Ricard, 40, will become deputy CEO and chief
operating officer immediately, before taking on the top posts at
the end of January 2015, the maker of Absolut vodka said today.
It also reported growth in full-year profit that beat its
forecast, though missed analyst  estimates.   The  succession plan  was put in place after the sudden death
on Aug. 17 of Patrick Ricard, who led the company for more than
three decades and had been chairman since 2008. Alexandre Ricard
will face the challenge of continuing to grow the company’s
revenue and profit amid competition from other drinks companies
including  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest distiller, and
difficult economic conditions in  Europe .  Pernod Ricard is having a “changing of the guard,” though
its growth is “on track,” Gideon Adler, an analyst at Investec
Securities, wrote in a note to investors.  CEO Pierre Pringuet, who proposed Alexandre Ricard as his
successor, will leave in January 2015 upon reaching mandatory
 retirement age , the distiller said.  Jameson Whiskey  Alexandre Ricard has worked at its Irish Distillers unit,
which includes the fast-growing Jameson whiskey brand, and has
run the distribution network since September 2011.  Other management changes announced today included the
appointment of Daniele Ricard as chairman to succeed her late
brother. The 73-year-old executive said in the statement that
she reiterates the Ricard family’s commitment “to pursue the
group’s strategy and development.”  Pernod said today that it expects a slowdown in the pace of
global economic growth this year, in emerging as well as mature
markets. Europe will continue to be tough because of the crises
in the  debt market  and government debt-reduction measures, the
distiller said. The company will set its annual profit forecast
in October.  “My assumption is that the euro will continue, but it’ll
require effort to cut deficits,” Pringuet said today on a call.
“We do anticipate the same sort of slightly negative trend” in
Europe this year, even as sales in eastern Europe are
accelerating, he said.  Chivas Regal  Pernod, which sells Chivas Regal whisky, said so-called
organic operating profit rose 9 percent in the year to June 30,
compared with its projection for growth on that basis of close
to 8 percent. The increase missed the median estimate of 12
 analysts  surveyed by  Bloomberg News  for a 9.6 percent gain.  Pernod dropped as much as 2.6 percent in Paris trading and
was down 1.5 percent at 86.44 euros as of 10:42 a.m.  First-half sales at Pernod rose 8 percent, excluding the
effects of acquisitions, disposals and currency fluctuations.
That beat the 7.2 percent median estimate, driven by 17 percent
growth in  emerging markets  including  China , where consumers are
snapping up more expensive alcohol including its Martell cognac.
Revenue in developed markets rose 2 percent on the same basis.
Fourth-quarter revenue grew 4 percent.  Growth was aided by a 6 percent improvement in price and
mix, Pringuet said, boosted by innovations including behind its
Malibu brand.  Total sales gained 7.5 percent to 8.2 billion euros. Pernod
said it expects “continued good growth in the U.S.,” the
world’s largest spirits market, and said sales grew 5 percent
this year in the country, driven by Jameson Irish whiskey.  French Decline  So-called organic sales in its home market of France
declined 1 percent, hurt by a Jan. 1 tax increase.  In Europe outside of  France , sales improved 2 percent as
“pronounced bipolarization” between east and west Europe
restrained growth, Pernod said. Sales fell 1 percent in western
Europe, while revenue in eastern Europe grew 16 percent.  Sales in  Asia  and the rest of the world grew 15 percent,
the company said, aided by demand in China,  India  and  Vietnam .  Pernod has been seeking to pay down debt. The distiller had
targeted a ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of close to 3.9 as of June 30, and
today reported a ratio of 3.8.  Earnings before interest and tax, excluding some items,
rose to 2.1 billion euros from 1.9 billion euros.  Patrick Ricard was 67 when he died, and had led the company
as CEO for three decades, presiding over transformational deals
including the acquisitions of Allied Domecq Plc and Vin & Sprit
AB, a 2008 transaction for 5.28 billion euros ($6.6 billion)
which gained the company Absolut vodka. He took the role of
chairman in 2008, with Pringuet becoming CEO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  