-- Pfizer Loses Bid to Dismiss Fen-Phen Lung Ailment Suits
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-08-30T21:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/pfizer-loses-bid-to-dismiss-fen-phen-lung-ailment-suits.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , whose Wyeth unit
reserved more than $21 billion to settle lawsuits over the fen-
phen diet drugs, lost its bid to have claims that the pills
caused a fatal disease years after users stopped taking them
thrown out.  U.S. District Judge Harvey Bartle III in Philadelphia today
rejected Pfizer’s arguments that there was no reliable evidence
that fen-phen could cause an often-fatal lung disease to arise
years after a user stopped taking the pills.  Experts hired by plaintiffs to review their cases can
“properly rely on” studies and case reports showing  primary
pulmonary hypertension , known as PPH, can be caused by diet-drug
combination more than 10 years after the last use of the
appetite suppressant, Bartle said in a 22-page ruling.  Pfizer’s challenge to plaintiffs’ PPH latency argument was
an attempt to wipe out the last significant litigation tied to
the diet-drug combination’s 1997 recall, Alex MacDonald, a
Boston-based plaintiffs’ lawyer who has litigated cases over the
pills for more than a decade, said this month.  “Today’s decision is a total victory for plaintiffs, who
only sought to keep the courthouse doors open so they could have
juries hear how their loved ones died of a horrible disease
because they took prescription diet drugs years ago,” MacDonald
said in a telephone interview today.  ‘Weighing Options’  Chris Loder, a Pfizer spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement today that the company was disappointed with Bartle’s
ruling and was “weighing its legal options.”  Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, acquired Wyeth in a
$68 billion buyout in 2009. It also acquired a $21.1 billion
liability for the fen-phen cases, many of which had been
consolidated in federal court in  Philadelphia .  More than 6 million prescriptions were written for the diet
combination before it was withdrawn. Consumers took Wyeth’s
 Pondimin  or  Redux  drugs as well as the generic  Phentermine  to
help suppress their appetites.  Wyeth once faced more than 175,000 claims over the diet
combination. Former users accused the drugmaker of hiding its
health risks to generate billions in profits.  Wyeth officials sought to resolve the litigation by setting
up a $3.75 billion national settlement program for former users
in 2000. Costs of settlements forced the drugmaker to add $1.3
billion to the fund in 2004. Wyeth eventually boosted reserves
to more than $21 billion.  PPH Verdicts  While the number of PPH cases Wyeth has faced has been
relatively small, claims over the fatal  lung disease  have
generated verdicts and settlements for tens of millions of
dollars.  A state-court jury in Beaumont,  Texas , ordered Wyeth in
April 2004 to pay more than  $1 billion  to the family of a former
fen-phen user who died from PPH. The panel awarded Cynthia
Cappel-Coffey’s family $113 million in compensatory damages and
$900 million in punitive damages over the company’s mishandling
of the combination.  The drugmaker’s lawyers filed their PPH latency challenge
this year as two new cases were set for trial in the federal and
state courts in Philadelphia.  Wyeth’s attorneys argued Jamie Cheek and Valarie Farmer
couldn’t prove their PPH cases were caused by their diet-drug
use in the 1990s. Cheek’s symptoms didn’t appear for nine years
after her last use of the drug, and Farmer’s became evident 11
years after she stopped taking it.  Philadelphia Suits  Cheek’s case is filed in federal court in Philadelphia and
among the cases consolidated before Bartle while Farmer’s suit
is pending in state court in the same city.  The women’s lawyers countered there are a wealth of studies
and case reports to back up the idea that PPH can have a latency
period of a decade or more and that respected medical
researchers have linked the disease to diet-drug use.  While Bartle found that plaintiffs’ experts properly relied
on those studies and case reports to argue that their diet-drug
use caused them to develop PPH, it will be up to a jury to make
the final determination of that issue.  The ruling expressed “no view on whether Ms. Cheek’s
ingestion of diet drugs caused her PPH when her symptoms did not
appear until eleven years after she stopped taking those
drugs,” Bartle wrote. “That is a matter for the jury to decide
after hearing from the experts on both sides and considering all
other relevant evidence.”  The cases are In re Diet Drugs Products Liability
Litigation, MDL No. 1203, and Brown v. American Home Products
Corp., 99-cv-20593, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  