-- Philippine Peso Gains as Second-Quarter Growth Beats Estimates
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-08-30T08:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/philippine-peso-gains-as-second-quarter-growth-beats-estimates.html
The  Philippine peso  gained, snapping
a three-day decline, after second-quarter  economic growth  beat
economists’ forecasts, brightening the outlook for investment
inflows.  The peso erased losses after the statistics bureau reported
gross domestic product increased 5.9 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, compared with a revised 6.3
percent in the preceding three months. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey was for 5.5 percent. Expansion will
probably reach the high-end of a 5 percent to 6 percent growth
forecast this year, Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio
Balisacan said.  “Growth is slowing but remains at a healthy rate above 5
percent,” Marc Bautista, head of research at  Metropolitan Bank
& Trust (MBT)  Co. in  Manila , said before the GDP report. “The peso
weakness is a bit seasonal at the moment as remittances slacken
around this time of the year.”  The peso gained 0.3 percent to 42.23 per dollar at the
close in Manila, data from Tullett Prebon Plc showed. It earlier
fell to 42.410 from 42.355 yesterday. The currency dropped 1.2
percent in August and is up 3.8 percent for the year. One-month
implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to
price options, fell 19 basis points to 6.11 percent.  The nation’s  exports  grew 4.2 percent in June from a year
earlier, compared with a 19.7 percent gain in May, the
statistics bureau reported on Aug. 10. Remittances increased by
4.2 percent, versus 5.1 percent in May and marked the smallest
gain since March 2011.  Policy Stance  President  Benigno Aquino ’s push to lure foreign investment
and bolster growth is gaining momentum, with pledges from
companies including  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and Gazasia Ltd.
this year. The central bank cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a
record-low 3.75 percent in July to support growth.  “Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will review the stance of
policy, and calibrate any further action” after considering the
impact of increased public spending for reconstruction after
recent floods and the global demand slowdown, Governor Amando
Tetangco said in a mobile-phone message.  “We have sufficient room in our policy toolkit to address
these factors to protect our inflation target,” he said.  The yield on the 4.875 percent bonds due August 2022
dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.875
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. The yield
has declined from 4.93 percent on Aug. 22, the highest since the
securities were sold this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  