-- Polish Growth Slows More Than Forecast on Debt Crisis
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-08-30T14:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/polish-growth-slows-more-than-forecast-on-debt-crisis.html
Poland ’s  economy  slowed more than
economists forecast in the second quarter as companies and
consumers scaled back spending amid the euro-area debt crisis,
bolstering the case for cutting interest rates next month.  Gross domestic product rose 2.4 percent from a year
earlier, the slowest pace in 11 quarters, compared with a 3.5
percent increase in the previous three months, the Warsaw-based
 Central Statistics Office  reported today. The figure lagged
behind the median 2.9 percent estimate of 34 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. GDP increased a seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent
from the previous quarter.  Poland’s economy is forecast to expand 2.7 percent this
year, the slowest pace since 2009, when it was the only one in
the European Union to avoid a contraction. The country sells
more than half its exports to the 17-nation euro area, which
contracted in the second quarter amid a deepening debt crisis.
Polish export growth slowed for a third quarter to 3.6 percent,
compared with 4.8 percent in the three months through March,
today’s report showed.  “The slowdown is bigger and coming earlier than anyone has
thought,” Monika Kurtek, a Warsaw-based economist at Bank
Pocztowy SA, said by phone. With the economy likely to “slow 
even further in the coming months, the argument for a rate cut 
is getting stronger and it’s timing more imminent.”  Zloty Weakens  The zloty traded at 4.1888 per euro at 2:30 p.m. in Warsaw
after dropping to a five-week low of 4.19 at 10:17 a.m. That
took its decline in the past three days to 2.5 percent, the most
among more than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield
on two-year notes fell 5 basis points to 4.10 percent, the
lowest since Aug. 10, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Domestic demand dropped 0.2 percent in the second quarter,
the first decline since the third quarter in 2009, as
investments slowed to 1.9 percent, down from 6.7 percent in the
first three months of the year, according to today’s GDP report.
Public investments fell 0.1 percent, while  consumer spending 
increased 1.5 percent after growing 3.6 percent in the same
quarter last year.  “Consumers and companies aren’t coping,” Boguslaw Grabowski, an economic adviser to Prime Minister Donald Tusk who
said on Aug. 10 that Poland could slip into a recession unless
the central bank cuts rates and deficit goals are eased, told
TVN CNBC after the data. “The numbers are rather surprising
and, if confirmed by subsequent data, give food for thought.”  Investor Bets  Investors in interest-rate derivatives raised their bets
that the central bank will cut borrowing costs this year. Three-
month forward rate agreements fell seven basis points after the
release to trade at 4.66 percent. The contracts are trading 38
basis points below the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered
Rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I can only hope that this data will be a final call for a
rate cut,” Piotr Soroczynski, chief economist at the state-
owned Export Credit Insurance Corp., said by phone from Warsaw.
“Monetary easing can’t be postponed any longer.”  While central banks across the world are undertaking the
broadest reduction in  borrowing costs  since 2009 to avert a
global slump, the Narodowy Bank Polski raised its  interest rates 
by a quarter-point in May to 4.75 percent and only two members
of the 10-people council have since spoken out in favor of a
rate cut next month.  Considering Cuts  The reading gives even more reason for the central bank to
debate an interest-rate cut at its next policy meeting on Sept.
4, Elzbieta Chojna-Duch of the Monetary Policy Council was
quoted as saying today by the PAP newswire. She was against the
rate increase in May and together with another policy maker,
Andrzej Bratkowski, has spoken out for a cut since then.  “Following today’s data, more members of the council would
consider cutting rates,” Kurtek said.  The bank has changed its “policy bias” and prospects for
cutting borrowing costs have increased, Governor  Marek Belka 
said in an Aug. 28 interview with Radio PiN. While he ruled out
raising rates, Belka said that a meeting of policy makers in
Warsaw on Sept. 4-5 is unlikely to surprise investors.  “Our main export markets are undergoing stagnation,
investors are bombarded with bad news, and our economy has to
slow,” Belka also told the radio station.  Job Scene  Jobs growth slowed to zero in July from a year earlier, the
slowest in 25 months, while the  unemployment rate  has been
between 11.4 percent and 13.5 percent for two years. It will
stay at about that level through 2013, the government predicts.  Fewer jobs and limited wage growth will reduce consumer
spending, which represents 60 percent of GDP, while external
risks and high borrowing costs will discourage companies from
making new investments, Soroczynski said.  “No new investments will be undertaken as companies want
to wait for better times,” he said.  Companies have already reduced their advertising budgets,
hurting media companies such as  Agora SA (AGO) , Poland’s largest
publicly-listed publisher, whose second-quarter net income
slumped 94 percent to 1.3 million zloty from a year earlier.  TVN
SA (TVN) , Poland’s second-largest television network, reported a net
loss of 231 million zloty in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  