-- Portuguese Government Approves Airport Operator Sale Plan
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-08-30T14:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/portuguese-government-approves-airport-operator-sale-plan.html
The  Portuguese government  approved a
plan to sell all of ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal SA, the state-
owned manager of the country’s airports, to meet terms of an
international financial rescue.  Portugal will sell ANA to one or more investors through
private negotiations, according to a statement handed to
reporters in Lisbon following the weekly cabinet meeting. The
government also plans an offering of shares for ANA employees.  The country last year became the third euro-area nation
after Greece and Ireland to request a bailout from the European
Union and the International Monetary Fund. As part of the aid
package, the government has already sold stakes in companies
including Portugal’s biggest utility and the energy-grid
operator, and it also plans to sell airline TAP SGPS SA.  “The government knows there are various investors
interested in taking part in the privatization of ANA,” Maria Luis  Albuquerque , the secretary of state for treasury and
finance, said at the press conference. Authorities plan to find
a buyer for ANA by the end of 2012, Albuquerque said.  Economy Minister Alvaro Santos Pereira said in a June 1
interview that there are more than a dozen potential bidders
interested in ANA.  Teixeira Duarte SA (TDSA) , a Portuguese construction company, said
on July 26 that it agreed with an airport-operating unit of
 Ferrovial SA (FER)  to look at a purchase of ANA and may eventually
submit a proposal with the Spanish builder. Brisa-Auto Estradas
de Portugal SA, the biggest toll-road operator in the country,
said on April 23 that it signed a memorandum of understanding
with Brazilian counterpart  CCR SA (CCRO3)  to study the the state’s
planned sale of ANA.  Portugal has  hired  Barclays Plc,  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) ,
Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG as advisers for the
disposal of TAP and ANA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  