-- Qatar’s Rejection Leaves Glasenberg to Decide on Xstrata
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h ,   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-08-31T16:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/qatar-s-rejection-leaves-glasenberg-to-decide-on-xstrata.html
Ivan Glasenberg,  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) ’s billionaire chief executive officer, has a
week to decide on his biggest bet yet -- whether to raise his
$33 billion offer for  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  or see his five-year effort to
create the fourth-biggest mining company disintegrate.  Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund, which has 12 percent of
Xstrata, ruled out accepting Glasenberg’s current bid yesterday.
That means Glencore’s takeover probably will fail unless
Glasenberg raises the offer in time for a shareholder vote
scheduled for Sept. 7.  Glasenberg, a former accountant and coal trader who owns 16
percent of Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore, has worked there
since 1984 and became CEO in 2002. He will make the final
decision and will rely less on advisers as the deal nears
conclusion, a person familiar with the matter said, declining to
be identified because he wasn’t authorized to speak about it.  “He’s a preeminent trader, and don’t traders always leave
it until the last minute?”  Peter Davey , head of metals and
mining research at  Standard Bank (SBK)  Group Ltd. in  London , said by
phone. “He’s never going to disclose his hand upfront. That’s
how he makes money. It leaves the door open for him to try a
better offer.”  Glencore has bid 2.8 of its shares for each one in Xstrata,
below the 3.25-share level Qatar Holding LLC said it wanted to
back the offer. Just 16.48 percent of shareholders can block the
deal because under U.K. takeover rules Glencore is prevented
from voting its 34 percent stake.  Knight Vinke  Other Xstrata shareholders including Knight Vinke Asset
Management LLC and  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  have also called for a
sweetened offer. Glencore may have to raise its bid to 3 shares
to strike a deal,  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  said Aug. 21.  Knight Vinke , which owns 0.5 percent of Xstrata, intends to
vote against the offer “unless the terms are materially
improved,” it said today in an e-mailed statement.  “If the board of Glencore is unwilling to pay for
acquiring the control it seeks, we would support Xstrata’s
continuing independence as a fundamentally strong and successful
business,” Knight Vinke said. “Should the transaction fail to
be approved, we intend to consult with other shareholders
regarding the composition of the Xstrata board so as to make it
more independent and robust.”  Glencore currently has three representatives on Xstrata’s
board of 13 directors in Glasenberg, Telis Mistakidis and Tor Peterson. Seven members of  the board , including chairman  John Bond , “are considered to be independent from management and
free from any business or relationship conflicts,” according to
Xstrata’s  website .  Resisted Calls  Glasenberg, 55, has repeatedly rejected the calls to raise
the February offer, which has the backing of Xstrata’s board. He
last week said in an interview that a negative vote from Qatar
Holding would sink the current bid.  The South African was part of a $1.2 billion management-led
buyout from Glencore founder and former U.S. fugitive  Marc Rich 
in 1994. Last year, Glasenberg spearheaded the company’s
transformation from a little-known trading company into a
publicly traded entity through a $10 billion initial share
offering in London and  Hong Kong .  “He’s an extremely skilled negotiator,”  John Meyer , an
analyst at Fairfax IS Plc in London, said by phone. “Traders
are always keen to do the deal. It’s just a question of
adjusting the price. But will Glencore shareholders allow the
adjustment of the merger terms to a level that the Qataris are
going to accept?”  No Talks  There have been no recent talks between Qatar Holding and
Glencore, and none are currently scheduled, a person familiar
with the fund’s plans said, asking to not be identified because
he isn’t authorized to comment on the matter. The fund backs the
principle of the deal, though it won’t vote in favor without a
higher offer.  “Although it continues to support the principle of a
combination of Glencore with Xstrata, it has determined that it
will not support the proposed merger terms,” Qatar Holding said
yesterday in a statement without repeating its view that a ratio
of 3.25 was more appropriate. It “believes that Xstrata has a
strong future, whether in combination with Glencore on
acceptable terms or as a stand-alone entity, and that its shares
represent an attractive long-term investment.”  The chances of the deal’s success are slipping below 30
percent, Liberum Capital Ltd. said in a note. Opposition to the
deal has grown to about 15 percent after the Financial Times
reported Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, with 3 percent of
Xstrata, is joining with Qatar in planning to block the Glencore
bid, Liberum said.  Xstrata Discount  Xstrata rose 5.7 percent to close at 952.2 pence in London
trading, the most since Feb. 2, the day talks between the two
companies were confirmed. Glencore advanced 7.7 percent to
385.05 pence, the biggest gain since Oct. 27.  MSCI Inc. will adjust Glencore’s weighting in its benchmark
indexes on Sept. 1, according to a report from BMO Capital
Markets dated May 18. An index re-weighting can spur buying from
funds that track the performance of stock indexes.  A spokesman for Glencore, the world’s largest publicly
traded commodities supplier, declined to comment, as did a
spokeswoman for Xstrata, which is based in Zug,  Switzerland .  At current prices, Xstrata is trading at the equivalent of
2.47 Glencore shares, a discount of 12 percent to the offer of
2.8 shares. The ratio fell to as low as 2.45 on Aug. 28, the
widest discount since it was announced on Feb. 7, signaling a
heightened risk of the bid failing, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Break Fee  Under the current terms, Xstrata shareholders other than
Glencore will hold 45 percent of the combined entity, to be
known as Glencore Xstrata International Plc and listed in London
and Hong Kong. Its headquarters would be in Switzerland.
Glencore has agreed to pay Xstrata a so-called break fee of 298
million pounds ($470 million) should it withdraw the offer.  The combination would reunite two groups that separated a
decade ago when Xstrata bought Glencore’s Australian and South
African coal mines for $2.5 billion and went public in London.
It would also bring Glasenberg together with Xstrata’s CEO  Mick Davis , a fellow South African.  Glencore is working with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
as financial advisers. Xstrata has hired  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Bank
International Plc. Qatar Holding is working with  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)   “If they vote against the deal, they will block the
deal,” Glasenberg said of Qatar Holding in an Aug. 21 phone
interview. “From my point of view, from Glencore’s point of
view so be it. It’s not the end of the world. We will move on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  