-- Rand Worst Performer as Growth Concerns Damp Export Prospects
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-08-30T13:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/rand-worst-performer-as-growth-concerns-damp-export-prospects.html
The rand slumped to its weakest
level in five weeks as reports from  Germany ,  Japan  and  South
Korea  deepened concern the global economy is slowing, damping
prospects for South Africa’s exports.  South Africa’s currency retreated as much as 0.9 percent to
8.4831 per dollar, the weakest level since July 25. It traded
0.5 percent down as 8.4518 as of 3 p.m. in Johannesburg,
bringing its drop this month to 2.3 percent, the worst
performance out of 16 major currencies monitored by Bloomberg.
Yields on 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 dropped two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.79 percent.  German unemployment increased for a fifth month in August,
retail sales in Japan fell more than estimated last month and
South Korean manufacturers’ confidence stayed near the lowest
level since 2009. U.S. jobless claims were unchanged at a one-
month high.  South Africa  will probably post its seventh monthly
trade deficit in July as exports decline, a report tomorrow may
show, according to the median estimate of seven economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  “Reality is finally dawning on people,” Ian Cruickshanks,
head of treasury strategic research at Johannesburg-based
Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone. “The trade account is
looking bleak, it’s going to lead to the current account deficit
widening, and the rand’s going to come under pressure.”  A debt crisis in  Europe , which buys a third of South
Africa’s manufactured exports, has curbed demand, boosting the
 trade gap  for the first half of the year to 51.1 billion rand
($6 billion) from 2.5 billion rand a year earlier, the South
African Reserve Service said last month.  Credit Growth  The rand stayed weaker after data on private-sector credit
and producer price inflation prompted investors to add to bets
on a second central-bank interest-rate cut.  Credit growth slowed to 8.3 percent in July, from 8.7
percent the month before, as  consumer confidence  fell to the
lowest level in four years, the South African Reserve Bank said
today. Producer-price inflation slowed to 5.4 percent, from 6.6
percent in June. The  median estimate  of economists in a
Bloomberg survey was for a 5.8 percent rise.  The Reserve Bank cut its repurchase rate by half a
percentage point to 5 percent on July 19, the first reduction in
20 months, to help support growth in Africa’s biggest economy.
Slower growth in factory-gate prices may ease pressure on
consumer prices, which rose 4.9 percent in July. The central
bank aims to keep inflation within a range of 3 percent to 6
percent.  Easing ‘Possibility’  “Under these circumstances, we would expect the  Reserve
Bank  to stand still going into its September meeting, while not
closing the door to the possibility of further monetary easing
at a later date,” Bruce Donald, a currency strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, wrote in e-mailed
comments.  Two-year  interest-rate swaps , used to lock in borrowing
costs, dropped two basis points today to 4.96 percent, the
lowest since July 27.  Investors are weighing whether Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
Bernanke  will signal a new round of bond buying when he speaks
in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming  tomorrow. Data today is forecast to
show U.S. consumer spending rose the most since February. A
government report showed the country’s gross domestic product
grew at a 1.7 percent annual rate in the second quarter, up from
an initial estimate of 1.5 percent.  “It looks likely that Bernanke is going to reiterate his
‘wait-and-see’ approach, which should see dollar strength
return,”  Brigid Taylor , head of institutional sales at Nedbank
Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, wrote in e-mailed comments.
“Therefore, the risk is to the topside for the rand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  