-- Real Madrid Beats Barcelona 2-1 to Win Spanish Soccer Super Cup
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-08-30T01:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/real-madrid-beats-barcelona-2-1-to-win-spanish-soccer-super-cup.html
Gonzalo Higuain and Cristiano Ronaldo scored as Real  Madrid  beat archrival Barcelona 2-1 to
win Spanish soccer’s Super Cup for the first time in four years.  Lionel Messi  got a goal back for Barcelona in first-half
stoppage time at Madrid’s Santiago Bernabeu stadium last night
after teammate Adriano was ejected. Barca won the opening game
3-2 at the Camp Nou last week.  With the two-game series tied at 4-4, Real won by scoring
more away goals in the matchup of  Spain ’s league champion and
cup winner. It’s the first time Real, which began the defense of
its league title with a draw and loss, beat Barca at home in
eight attempts.  “We were ready for this match even though we’re not on a
good run in the league,” Real captain  Iker Casillas  told his
team’s website. “The fans deserve it and it’s a gift for them.
They can see that the team can be up to the job.”  Higuain made it 1-0 after 10 minutes, firing a shot under
goalkeeper Victor Valdes after  Javier Mascherano  failed to clear
a ball lofted from Real’s half.  Ronaldo scored eight minutes later when he flicked the ball
over Gerard Pique’s head, ran into the penalty box and shot past
Valdes. The Portuguese forward joined former Real striker Ivan Zamorano as the only players to score in five straight so-called
El Clasico matches.  As the home team dominated, Adriano was ejected for hauling
down Ronaldo with his hands as he raced toward the Barcelona
goal after 27 minutes.  Messi got Barca’s goal when he bent a free kick around a
four-man wall and into the net.  Modric Makes Debut  In a less frenetic second half, Casillas saved a shot from
 Pedro Rodriguez  with his legs after 62 minutes.  Real coach  Jose Mourinho  brought on playmaker Luka Modric,
who signed from Tottenham Hotspur three days ago, with eight
minutes left. Barca also gave a debut to midfielder  Alex Song ,
who was acquired from Arsenal on Aug. 20.  In the final chances of the game, Higuain struck a right-
foot shot against the post with 10 minutes left and Messi fired
wide with his left foot in stoppage time.  Barca had won the Super Cup the three previous seasons.  “We went into the game a bit cold and we paid for it,”
Barca midfielder  Xavi Hernandez  told Efe news agency. “We’ve
missed out on a title but the most important ones are still to
play for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Brasilia at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  