-- Republicans Stage Diverse Show Amid Struggle to Draw Minorities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2012-08-30T21:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/republicans-stage-diverse-show-amid-struggle-to-draw-minorities.html
On the first night of the  Republican
National Convention , a 37-year-old black woman delivered a
spirited speech to the audience of largely white, largely
middle-aged delegates.  Mia Love, the Republican mayor of Saratoga Springs, Utah,
and a candidate for Congress, was born to Haitian parents who
came to Brooklyn with $10 and who, Love proudly says, “never
took a handout” from the government, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Sept. 3 issue.  She was followed on stage by a succession of speakers who
also didn’t fit the white-guy-in-a-tie Republican mold:  South
Carolina  Governor Nikki Haley, an Indian American; New Mexico
Governor  Susana Martinez ; former  Barack Obama  supporter Artur Davis; Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval; Sher Valenzuela, who’s
running for lieutenant governor in Delaware; and  Ted Cruz , a
Harvard-educated, Tea Party candidate for the Senate from Texas.  They told of coming to America, overcoming adversity, and
finding a home in the  Republican Party .  The decision to showcase their stories in prime time says a
lot about the party’s increasingly urgent desire to be seen as
welcoming to minorities and women. It’s more than a show of
inclusiveness.  After decades of half-hearted efforts to attract blacks,
Hispanics and unmarried white women, most of whom vote for
Democrats, Republican leaders realize that unless the party
expands its pool of support, it could slide into irrelevance in
coming decades.  85% of Growth  The numbers tell the story. Almost 87 percent of registered
Republican voters are white, according to the Pew Research
Center. In contrast, 61 percent of registered Democrats are
white, 21 percent are black, and 10 percent are Hispanic. These
numbers are becoming more important because minorities have
accounted for 85 percent of the country’s population growth over
the past decade, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  Hispanics make up the largest portion of that growth, and
Obama leads Republican candidate Mitt Romney by 34 percentage
points among Hispanics, an August NBC/Wall Street
Journal/Telemundo poll shows.  Among women, who have leaned Democratic for three decades,
Obama leads by 14 points. Men are split evenly. The census
projects that non-whites will outnumber whites by 2042. If
voting and population trends continue, Republicans face what
Representative  Paul Ryan , the Republican vice presidential
nominee, and other party leaders have described as an electoral
tipping point, when Republicans will have trouble securing a
majority of the popular vote.  Visible Effect  The effect is already visible in this year’s presidential
race.  William Frey , a demographer at the  Brookings Institution ,
calculates that the number of registered Hispanic voters has
grown enough since 2008 that if Obama maintains the same
proportion of minority support that he held four years ago, he
can win California, New York, Illinois, Michigan, and  Wisconsin 
even without the backing of a majority of whites.  Given all that, it’s easy to see why Republicans are
looking to increase their appeal to women and especially to non-
whites. It’s been a tough sell.  Among other things, the party’s traditional opposition to
unions and affirmative action, and Romney’s vow to repeal the
Affordable Care Act, keep most blacks at arm’s length. And the
party isn’t doing much better among Hispanics.  ‘By the Wayside’  “We were at a great point in 2004,” said Jennifer Korn,
executive director of the Hispanic Leadership Network, which
works to attract Latinos to the Republican Party. That year
 George W. Bush , who bucked his party and advocated for less
stringent immigration rules, won more than 40 percent of the
Hispanic vote. Since then, says Korn, “It seemed to go by the
wayside.”  At the same time Obama is campaigning on his decision to
stop deportations of young illegal immigrants, Republicans are
embracing tough immigration laws in  Arizona ,  Alabama ,  Georgia ,
and South Carolina. While that may reassure white Republicans,
it drives off Hispanics.  “I call it the immigration earmuffs,” says Korn. “Even if
they agree with you on lower taxes, on jobs, and less regulation,
they’ve been turned off by harsh immigration rhetoric.”  Party leaders don’t seem to know what to do about it.
Changing their positions on issues to win the support of women
and minorities would mean abandoning some core Republican
beliefs. Instead, they insist that what they need to do is the
opposite: Stick to what they believe and persuade voters to come
to them.  Broaden Appeal  “It’s more of a, ‘How do we describe this issue to key
demographics,’ as opposed to a change in policy,” says
Republican strategist Ron Bonjean, who advises congressional
candidates. The party must appeal to those “trying to make ends
meet, making sacrifices every day, taking coupons into the
grocery store --- and directly appealing to them that  Mitt
Romney  has a better plan.”  In Tampa,  Florida , that vision of a Republican Party, flush
with black and Hispanic true believers, came to life. At least
on stage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dwoskin in Washington at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  