-- Republican Women Split on Akin Staying in Senate Race
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-08-30T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/republican-women-split-on-akin-staying-in-senate-race.html
Republican delegates attending the
party’s convention in Tampa,  Florida , this week echoed lawmakers
in criticizing Representative Todd Akin’s comments about
“legitimate rape.”  Still, not all Republicans think he should get out of the
U.S. Senate race in  Missouri . Some, including women delegates,
say the party shouldn’t play into Democrats’ attempts to use the
flap over his statement to further cast Republicans as
conducting a “war against women.”  Emily Jarms, a 37-year-old alternate delegate from Oregon
who said Akin’s remarks “weren’t pretty,” wore a sticker
supporting him. She said Republicans need to do some soul
searching on the issue of women.  “I actually think that Todd Akin is the exact kind of
person who truly does support women,” said Jarms, who works as
a wax assembler at a titanium casting company in Redmond. “The
Democrats accuse us of things. They say this is what Republicans
believe. Republicans don’t speak up.”  Akin said Aug. 19 in a television interview that “if it’s
a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that
whole thing down,” so a rape exception to a ban on abortion
isn’t necessary. Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ,
who has described himself as a defender of  women’s rights ,
called Akin’s remarks “outrageous” and joined other party
leaders in calling for him to end his Senate bid. Akin has
refused to leave the race.  ‘Proud of Him’  “All the women I’m friends with agree with keeping Todd
Akin on the ballot,” said Roxana Lewis, a 54-year-old alternate
delegate from League City,  Texas . “I am strongly pro-life and I
am proud of him for having a strong stand on pro-life issues.”  For Republican Governor  Scott Walker  of  Wisconsin , it comes
down to math. Walker, who earlier joined the chorus of officials
calling for Akin to drop out of the race against Democratic
Senator  Claire McCaskill , said keeping Akin on the ballot could
cost Republicans a Senate majority.  “If we fall one vote short in the Senate, because of at
best an ignorant - at best - completely unscientific and
ridiculous statement by that particular individual,” Democrats
could retain control of the Senate, he said yesterday at a
Bloomberg/Washington Post breakfast.  The contradictory messages illustrate why Romney is having
trouble narrowing the gender gap with President  Barack Obama .  Broadening Appeal  Some women delegates say the party is making the right
decision by taking steps to show Romney as supportive of women
and by humanizing him. They said his wife  Ann Romney ’s speech to
the convention on Aug. 28 was a step in broadening his appeal to
women voters.  “Romney is not against women, he listens to his wife,”
said Sharon Hemphill, a 65-year-old tax attorney from Spring,
Texas, attending the convention. “He regards her with a lot of
respect.”  And as for Akin: The controversy is “ridiculous” and
people know he “didn’t mean what he said,” Hemphill said.  Women, who represent 52 percent of the U.S. electorate,
prefer Obama over Romney by an eight-percentage-point margin,
according to Gallup daily tracking polls conducted July 30
through Aug. 19.  As the president’s campaign tries to drive that wedge
deeper by linking Romney and vice presidential nominee  Paul Ryan 
to Akin’s comments, Republicans are trying to redirect the
conversation to women’s struggles in the sluggish economy.  ‘Really Understand’  “We’re not getting that out as much as we should,” Anita McBride, who was chief of staff to former first lady  Laura Bush ,
said in an interview in Tampa. “Women need to be convinced that
the  Republican Party  and its leadership really understand their
difficulties.”  The message, she said, needs to focus on what she termed
the  Democratic Party ’s preference for big government.  “No one wants to pull a safety net away from women in
crisis,” said McBride, an executive-in-residence at American
University’s Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies
in the School of Public Affairs in  Washington .  Carol Salmon, a 62-year-old retired history professor,
agreed.  “We believe in fiscal conservatism, we want the government
to stay out,” the Canfield, Ohio, resident said on her way to
the Tampa Bay Times Forum to hear speeches. She wore a
rhinestone-studded T-shirt that said “National Federation of
Republican Women.”  Television Ads  Obama has been investing resources to court women voters,
running ads in suburban areas of battleground states, including
Ohio, Virginia and Colorado, that show Romney saying he would
defund  Planned Parenthood , according to campaign officials.  One ad, called “The Same,” has aired 3,460 times since it
first ran Aug. 18, at an estimated cost of more than $2.3
million, according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which
tracks advertising. The campaign held women’s summits this week
in Des Moines and Las Vegas and sent women surrogates to Ohio,
Virginia and Wisconsin.  In Tampa, the  Democratic National Committee  flew planes
that carried the banner “Romney-Ryan-Akin: Too Extreme for
Women.” On Aug. 29, the first full day of the convention, the
DNC took out a full-page advertisement in the Tampa Tribune that
said “Romney-Ryan-Akin, Taking away a woman’s decision-any way
they ‘kin.’”  “This isn’t a war on women,” said Jackie Trudell,
chairwoman of the Wisconsin Federation of Republican Women.
“We’re in a war for women.”  Women in Tampa are less interested in Akin and more focused
on hearing about jobs and health care, said Trudell, a 58-year-
old delegate.  “He’s going to fade away and that will take care of
itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  