-- Roach Says Bernanke Shouldn’t Be Reappointed as Fed Chief
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-08-30T14:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/roach-says-bernanke-shouldn-t-be-reappointed-as-fed-chief.html
Yale University professor  Stephen Roach  said Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  shouldn’t be
given a third term because of his role in managing the U.S.
economy before the financial crisis.  “I think Bernanke tried his best post-crisis, but he’s
part of the problem pre-crisis,” Roach said on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  today. “He and  Alan Greenspan  condoned asset bubbles at a
time the economy needed more discipline.”  The comments come a week after Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  said he wouldn’t reappoint Bernanke when
the Fed chief’s term expires in January 2014. Romney also said
he would seek someone with whom he shares economic views.  For Roach, Bernanke’s work to calm markets following the
financial crisis doesn’t mean his part in inflating asset
bubbles in previous years should be overlooked.  “To reward him for post-crisis, very valiant efforts of
public service completely overlooks the role he played in
getting the U.S. asset markets and an asset-dependent economy
into this mess in the first place,” he said. “I would not be
in favor of his reappointment.”  Roach doesn’t agree with Romney on  China  and he criticized
the Republican candidate for his pledge to brand China a
currency manipulator.  “This could trigger a series of cascading events,” Roach
said, noting that any such statement would probably result in
U.S. laws limiting imports from China that would be reciprocated
by the Chinese. “We’d be back in recession by the end of
2013,” he said.  Roach warned that the U.S. has to be careful to avoid lost
decades along the lines of what Japan has suffered since the
1980s. Japan’s Nikkei 225 index peaked in 1989 and is now at
less than a fourth the level reached then.  “There’s nothing normal about post-bubble economies. Japan
has had two lost decades and counting and if we’re not careful,
that’s a template that’s going to apply to us,” he said.
“We’re going to be struggling under the weight of de-leveraging
for years to come. We’re still in the early stages of paring
down the overhang of excess  household debt  and in rebuilding the
savings rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  