-- Roddick, Last U.S. Men’s Grand Slam Winner, to Retire After Open
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-08-31T04:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/roddick-last-american-with-grand-slam-title-says-he-s-retiring.html
Andy Roddick , the last American man
to win a Grand Slam tennis title, will retire after the  U.S.
Open , the site of his only major championship and the place
where as a kid he snuck in to see his heroes.  Roddick announced his decision yesterday on his 30th
birthday, 25 hours before a second-round match against  Bernard Tomic  at the National Tennis Center in  New York .  Roddick became the second Grand Slam champion to make this
year’s U.S. Open a career-ending tournament, joining three-time
winner  Kim Clijsters  of  Belgium .  “I don’t feel like I’m healthy enough or committed enough
to go another year,” Roddick, who has struggled with a
hamstring injury this year, told reporters at a hastily convened
news conference. “I’ve always wanted to, in a perfect world,
finish at this event.”  Roddick won the U.S. Open in 2003 and lost Wimbledon finals
in 2004, 2005 and 2009 to  Roger Federer  of Switzerland. He also
lost the 2006 U.S. Open final to Federer and reached the
semifinals of the Australian Open four times.  Roddick has won more than $20 million in a career that has
included 32 titles. Since his sole Grand Slam victory, Federer,
 Rafael Nadal  and Novak Djokovic have won 32 of the 35 majors.  “It’s a matter of how I feel, and frankly these guys have
gotten really, really, really good,” Roddick said. “I’m not
sure that, with compromised health, I’m able to do what I want
to do right now.”  Roddick, a native of Omaha,  Nebraska , made his debut at the
U.S. Open as a junior in 1998. His first professional match at
the year’s final Grand Slam tournament came in 2000.  Players’ Lounge  His connection with the U.S. Open goes much further back.
He reminisced yesterday about sneaking into the main stadium to
watch  Jimmy Connors  making a run to the semifinals in 1991, and
about a daring move a year earlier.  “I came here in, I think it was 1990, with my parents as a
birthday present,” he told reporters. “I snuck into the
players’ lounge without a credential. I saw Pete (Sampras). He
was playing video games. I’m pretty sure I beat him at like
Mortal Kombat or something. That was fun.”  Roddick, who was ranked No. 1 in the world in 2003, is
currently 22nd -- second among American men to No. 10  John Isner .  The nine-year American title drought in men’s Grand Slam
singles is a record. Roddick’s departure will leave the U.S.
with only one active male player who has advanced beyond the
quarterfinals of a major tournament --  Robby Ginepri , now ranked
234th in the world, who was a U.S. Open semifinalist in 2005.  ‘Amazing Career’  Federer, 31, who after his second-round victory last night
against Bjorn Phau of Germany urged fans to support Roddick in
his match tonight against Australia’s Tomic, said the American
has had “an amazing career.”  “I’m thankful for everything he’s done for the game,
especially here for tennis in America,” Federer said in a news
conference. “It’s not been easy after Agassi and Sampras,
Courier, Chang, Connors, McEnroe, you name it.”  Jon Vegosen, chairman of the U.S. Tennis Association, said
in a statement that Roddick -- whose 33 Davis Cup singles wins
rank second among Americans to  John McEnroe ’s 41 -- “has always
been an outstanding ambassador for our sport and our country.”  Serena Williams , 30, said after her second-round victory
yesterday that she’d known since last year that Roddick would
announce his retirement.  “He told me a while ago, last year, that this would be
it,” Williams told reporters. “He told me again. I was at his
house in Austin at the end of the year. I was just thinking,
change your mind, Andy, change your mind. But I guess he
didn’t.”  Clijsters’s Retirement  Clijsters, 29, who won four Grand Slam titles, said before
the event that she would retire after the U.S. Open. She lost in
the second round in singles and had a first-round defeat in
women’s doubles. She’ll complete her tennis career by pairing
with  Bob Bryan  of the U.S. in the mixed doubles.  Roddick said he plans to spend much of his time at the 11-
year-old  Andy Roddick Foundation  in his home town of Austin,
Texas, and that he knew he no longer could devote himself 100
percent to playing tennis.  “I’ve never done anything halfway,” he said. “Probably
the first time in my career that I can sit here and say I’m not
sure that I can put everything into it physically and
emotionally. I don’t know that I want to disrespect the game by
coasting home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  