-- Romania’s Economic Growth Will Slow to 0.7% This Year, BCR Says
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-08-30T09:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/romania-s-economic-growth-will-slow-to-0-7-this-year-bcr-says.html
Romania ’s  economic  growth will slow
this year as the crisis in the euro area, the country’s main
trading partner, and domestic political turmoil hold back
investors, Banca Comerciala Romana SA said.  Total output will expand about 0.7 percent this year,
slower than last year’s advance of 2.5 percent, analysts at
Romania’s largest bank wrote in a report released today in
Bucharest.  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  ’s Romanian unit cut its outlook
for next year to 1.9 percent from 2.9 percent.  “The patchy recovery Romania has seen so far, coupled with
treacherous market conditions, both domestic and external, have
led us to lower the growth outlook for the country in the short
and medium term,” BCR said. “The European context remains torn
apart by the sovereign debt crisis and, what is more worrisome,
there is no light at the end of the tunnel, at least as yet.”  The crisis, which pushed the economy of the 17-nation euro
area into a contraction in the second quarter after stalling in
first, is sapping demand for exports from central and eastern
 Europe  and stalling growth in the post-communist region.
Poland’s economy slowed more than economists forecast in the
second quarter to 2.4 percent, while  Hungary ’s recession is
deepening.  Romania’s economy rebounded in the second quarter after two
consecutive quarters of decline and gross domestic product for
April through June grew 0.5 percent from the previous three
months and 1.2 percent from the same period a year earlier.  Political Turmoil  The country has been embroiled in political turmoil over
the past two months as a power struggle between its top leaders
led to a 52-day suspension of President Traian Basescu, pushed
the currency to record lows and boosted borrowing costs.  Basescu returned to office this week after a court ruling
invalidated a July 29 impeachment referendum because of lower-
than-required turnout. His feud with Prime Minister Victor Ponta
may continue before parliamentary elections in December.  “The recent political turmoil is expected to eat away at
foreign investors’ confidence, which is already affected by the
European crisis,” BCR said in the report.  The bank also increased its inflation outlook for this year
to 4 percent and said it doesn’t rule out the rate exceeding the
central bank’s target of between 2 percent and 4 percent because
of a drought-impacted harvest and a weaker currency.  “Parliamentary elections are just around the corner, and
we see fiscal slippage of around 0.8 percentage points from the
agreed target of 3 percent of GDP,” BCR said.  The government pledged to the  International Monetary Fund 
and the European Union to cut a  budget deficit  to below 3
percent of GDP this year to exit a European Commission excessive
deficit procedure.  The IMF also cut its economic growth forecast for Romania
to 0.9 percent in 2012, down from the earlier forecast of 1.5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  