-- Romney Plan to End Deficit Hits Poor as Well as Park Rangers
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-08-30T15:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/romney-s-plan-to-end-deficit-hits-poor-as-well-as-park-rangers.html
Mitt Romney’s promise to balance the
budget without higher taxes while protecting retirees and
spending more on defense means the rest of government -- such as
meat inspections,  food stamps , national parks and affordable-housing aid -- would need to be cut by more than a quarter.  Though Romney doesn’t spell out how he would achieve his
fiscal goals, the arithmetic is clear, and it implies
substantial pain for middle-class and low-income Americans.  By putting  Social Security  off limits to cuts, promising to
boost  defense spending  by as much as much as $150 billion a year,
and holding the line on taxes, all other spending would have to
take a hit of about 29 percent by 2016, by one estimate.  If that were spread across-the-board, it would translate to
8,000 fewer employees to staff and maintain the national parks,
about $35 less a week in food stamps for a family of four, 35
fewer offices to forecast the weather and track storms, and $8.9
billion less for research to battle cancer, Alzheimer’s and
other diseases. Cuts in the Medicaid insurance system for the
poor and similar programs would save about $100 billion a year,
according to the campaign.  Some programs would be cut “down to the bone,” said Marc
Goldwein, senior policy director at the bipartisan Committee for
a Responsible Federal Budget in Washington. “It would require
some deep cuts beyond what he specified and beyond what I think
most people would imagine.”  ‘Hard Choices’  While New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  said during his
Aug. 28 keynote speech at the  Republican National Convention 
that leaders “have no other option but to make the hard
choices,” Romney has listed few specific targets for cutbacks,
aside from Medicaid. They include reductions to  Amtrak , the
National Endowment for the Arts and foreign aid. That would
total $2.6 billion a year, according to Romney’s website, less
than 0.07 percent of projected federal spending for 2016.  Romney, 65, a former governor of Massachusetts, will lay
out his vision for the country tonight at the convention in
Tampa, Florida. His fiscal plan would create a government with
low tax rates designed to spur private investment and with
limited resources to maintain the social programs of the New
Deal and the Great Society.  “We won’t get businesses and individuals to risk starting
enterprises here and hiring people if they think America’s going
to become Greece,” he said in Hobbs,  New Mexico , on Aug. 23.
“So we’re going to have to get serious about cutting the
federal spending, encouraging growth and finally balance our
budget in this country.”  Smaller Government  Romney’s failure to explain the difficult decisions that
would have to be made makes it hard to see how he can achieve a
balanced budget, said  Bob Bixby , executive director of the
Concord Coalition.  “It’s saying: I believe in lower taxes and smaller
government, except perhaps for defense,” said Bixby, whose
Arlington, Virginia-based group advocates for  deficit  reduction.
“That’s really a theme, but he’s yet to show how the numbers
add up.”  President  Barack Obama , who will accept his party’s
nomination next week in Charlotte,  North Carolina , is proposing
higher spending and higher  taxes  than his Republican rival.
After a decade, Romney and Obama’s plans would be about $300
billion a year apart on revenue and as much as $1 trillion apart
on spending.  Preserving Government  Obama wants to preserve the government’s role in aiding the
needy while reducing deficits through shallower spending cuts
and higher taxes for top earners. He would restore the top
marginal rates of the late-1990s, when the economy grew at more
than 4 percent annually, a pace that hasn’t been achieved since.
Obama isn’t trying to balance the budget; his less-ambitious
goal is to stop  the debt  as a share of the economy from growing.  Beyond the first decade, because of Obama’s reluctance to
curb entitlements such as Medicare, his plan would lead to large
increases in the deficit and the debt -- under another
president’s watch -- as an aging population consumes health care
at a pace too fast for revenue to keep up.  Romney’s plan promises tax-rate cuts and avoids immediate
changes to Medicare and Social Security benefits, requiring him
to rely on undefined spending reductions, vague promises of tax-base broadening and optimistic growth assumptions to turn a
trillion-dollar deficit into a balanced budget within eight to
10 years even as he increases defense spending.  Unpalatable Plan  Politically, Romney’s refusal to consider tax increases
makes his plan unacceptable to Democrats and hard to move
through Congress unless Republicans control both chambers and
the White House. Whoever wins, the next president will have to
shift from his campaign positions to reach an agreement, said
former Senator  Judd Gregg  of New Hampshire, a Republican who was
chairman of the Budget Committee.  “As a practical matter, you can’t make major debt and
deficit progress without a comprehensive proposal,” he said.
“You’re not going to get a comprehensive resolution unless you
have some sort of ratio of spending reductions to revenues.”  The  U.S. budget deficit  rose to $1.3 trillion in 2011 from
$160.7 billion in 2007. That’s mostly a byproduct of the 2007-2009 recession, which reduced incomes and tax collections and
increased spending on safety-net programs such as  unemployment
insurance  and food stamps. The 2009 economic-stimulus law and
other policies implemented to fight the recession also
contributed.  Long-Term Deficit  This year, spending will be 22.9 percent of gross domestic
product and revenue will be 15.7 percent, according to
 Congressional Budget Office  data released Aug. 22. The challenge
for the candidates is to reduce the projected medium-term and
long-term deficit, which is rising because of  health-care  costs
and the aging population. In the short term, both candidates say
they want to avoid imposing tax or spending policies that would
prevent the economy from recovering.  If Congress does nothing, by 2022 revenue to the Treasury
will increase to 21.4 percent of the gross domestic product,
owing to the expiration of the George W. Bush-era tax cuts and
an economic recovery. Spending is projected to decline to 22.3
percent of GDP, yielding a 0.9 percent deficit, or $213 billion.  Because Congress probably will extend most of the Bush-era
tax cuts and prevent doctors’ pay under Medicare from being cut
by more than 30 percent, the Congressional Budget Office
outlines a more politically realistic calculation. Under that
scenario, in 2022, revenue would reach 18.6 percent of GDP and
spending would be 24.1 percent, for a deficit of 5.5 percent of
GDP, or $1.4 trillion.  Spending Cap  Romney calls for capping spending at 20 percent of GDP by
2016, devoting 4 percent of the economy to defense spending and
balancing the budget. He wouldn’t raise taxes, relying on
broadening of the tax base and economic growth generated by his
plan to offset a 20 percent rate cut.  “The reason we’re so opposed to raising taxes is not just
because taxes hurt people and they kill jobs, it’s also because
when you raise taxes, you slow down growth,” Romney said in
Golden, Colorado, on Aug. 2, maintaining that higher taxes would
prevent a balanced budget. “It’s like a dog trying to chase its
tail. You just don’t ever get there.”  With taxes and near-term changes to Medicare and Social
Security benefits off the table for Romney, achieving a balanced
budget by 2020 or 2022 would require faster spending cuts to
other government programs than in the budget proposed by his
running mate, Representative  Paul Ryan . The Wisconsin
Republican’s plan wouldn’t reach balance until 2040.  ‘Happy Medium’  Ryan’s budget passed the House this year. The Republican
Study Committee, a group that favors smaller government, offered
a plan calling for balance within five years. The House rejected
that plan, and Republicans who voted against it included Ryan
and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia.  “There is clearly a happy medium here and that’s what
we’re trying to hit,” said Lanhee Chen, the Romney campaign’s
policy director, who supported the balanced-budget goal as
opposed to the Obama approach that stabilizes debt as a share of
the economy. “There’s an elegance about pursuing a path where
government is living within its means.”  To achieve the eight-to-10-year goal for balance, Romney
would cut Medicaid, convert it to a block-grant program run by
states and cap spending at inflation plus 1 percent.  He also would reduce the  federal workforce  by 10 percent
through attrition and cut federal workers’ pay to save $47
billion a year. He says he could find $60 billion a year in
waste and fraud.  Wasteful Spending  Getting lawmakers to agree to eliminate wasteful spending
can be difficult, said  Keith Hennessey , who was an economic
adviser to former President  George W. Bush .  “In a budget as large as the U.S. federal budget, there is
always a tremendous amount of inefficiency that can be cut,”
said Hennessey, now a research fellow at the Hoover Institution
at  Stanford University . “It’s often difficult to get at that
without causing someone some serious pain.”  Still, Hennessey said, politicians’ willingness to make
tough decisions can change quickly when faced with a fiscal or
financial crisis.  “As members become more aware and more concerned about the
policy consequences of inaction, I think votes that were
considered politically out of bounds become more acceptable,”
he said.  Health-Care Law  Romney would dump Obama’s 2010 health-care law, a step that
would expand the deficit by $109 billion over 10 years,
according to the CBO, because while repeal would reduce spending
it also would eliminate cost savings and higher  tax revenue .  “The rest of it is missing, and the rest of it is just a
huge amount of spending cuts where people have no idea where
they come from,” said Richard Kogan, a senior fellow at the
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington group that
supports policies to help lower-income households.  To reach his goals, Romney would have to look for cuts in
the rest of the budget, which includes food stamps, the
Environmental Protection Agency, medical research and financial
regulation. Kogan, who worked in Obama’s budget office, co-wrote
a  May analysis  that estimated Romney would need to cut programs
outside of defense and Social Security by 47 percent to achieve
balance in 2022 and attempted to quantify the potential effects
of the reductions.  By 2016, the cuts would need to be 29 percent across the
board, according to the center’s analysis. Excluding Medicare
would make the task even harder.  Ending Programs  Eliminating some programs would make the across-the-board
cuts smaller. Conversely, protecting some programs would require
deeper reductions everywhere else.  A 29 percent cut would make the average Pell Grant for
college tuition about $1,000 smaller and shrink the average
monthly Supplemental Security Income benefit by more than $100.  The Romney campaign hasn’t said whether it will provide
more details on his tax and spending plans before the election.  “We think,” Chen said, “that we’ve put out our big
ideas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  