-- Jeb Bush Slams Republican Anti-Immigrant Stance as Loser
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-08-30T17:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/romney-must-speak-more-from-his-heart-former-governor-bush-says.html
Former  Florida  Governor  Jeb Bush 
said his party’s anti-immigration policies are costing
Republicans elections and contributing to lower fertility rates
and gloom in the U.S.  “The most vociferous anti-immigrant kind of candidates
lose,” Bush said during a Bloomberg/Washington Post breakfast
at the  Republican National Convention  in Tampa, Florida. “They
lose in primaries, they lose in general elections. And I’m all
about winning.”  More than two-thirds of Hispanics voted for Democrat  Barack Obama  in the 2008 presidential election, according to
Washington-based Pew Hispanic Center. Mitt Romney, who will
accept the Republican presidential nomination, trailed Obama
among Hispanics by more than a 2-to-1 margin, according to an
Aug. 27 poll from Renton, Washington-based Latino Decisions.  Romney can begin to bridge that gap in his acceptance
speech tonight by sharing more of his personal story and
beliefs, Bush said. As part of that story, Bush said Romney
should discuss how his Mormon faith has shaped his life in
positive ways and “speak more from his heart.”  “That’s been hard for a guy who’s been brought up,
trained, lived his life in a way of great discipline and
reserve,” Bush said. “You know, he can’t undo 63 years of how
you’ve lived.”  Romney’s Policy  Romney has said he favors “self-deportation,” the idea
behind Alabama and  Arizona  immigration laws that pressure
undocumented workers to leave. The party has adopted a similar
platform calling for proposals to “encourage illegal aliens to
return home voluntarily.” The platform supports requiring
employers to verify workers’ legal status and opposes “any form
of amnesty” for illegal immigrants.  Bush said a “dark pessimism” coming from Washington over
immigration and other issues has led to lower fertility rates in
the U.S.  “It’s actually impacting fertility rates,” Bush said.
“We have a lower fertility rate today than  France . It’s a sign
of this pessimism. And the solution is to not view immigrants as
a problem.”  The average U.S. woman has 1.9 births over her lifetime,
according to a November 2011 report from the National Center for
Health Statistics. That number has decreased each year since
2007 and in 2010 dropped below the rate it takes for a
generation to replace itself.  Florida Votes  Bush, 59, served two terms as governor of Florida, leaving
office in early 2007. His family has produced the last two
Republican presidents:  George W. Bush , his brother, and  George H.W. Bush , his father.  Both former presidents won election with the help of
Florida’s electoral votes, which this year will total 29 of the
270 needed. Jeb Bush, who has been mentioned as a possible
presidential candidate in 2016 should Obama win re-election,
forecast a close race in the state this year. Hispanic voters
are about 14 percent of Florida’s electorate and outnumber black
voters in the state’s two biggest television markets, Miami and
 Orlando .  “The demographics of the state are probably trending
Democrat, but the voting profile of the state is” Republican,
Bush said. “That may change.”  Obama’s Tactics  Bush criticized Obama for skirting Congress and ordering a
plan to exempt from deportation younger illegal immigrants who
meet certain requirements. Bush said he supported the policy.  “Having a solution to the fact that we have all of these
young people, many of whom are making great contributions, don’t
have a connection to their parents’ former country, yeah, of
course I’m for it,” Bush said.  Still, Bush criticized Obama for making his deportation
announcement in June, a week before Romney spoke to the annual
meeting of National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials.  “Let’s do this executive order the day before he speaks,
and then I’m going to speak the next day, and everybody will
applaud me,” Bush said of Obama.  Obama spokesman Adam Fetcher said the president has made
“significant progress” on immigration policies.  “ Mitt Romney  and his allies have taken such extreme
positions on immigration that Governor Bush has repeatedly
criticized them,” Fetcher said in an e-mail.  ‘Dominant Factor’  Asked in an interview on Bloomberg Television after the
breakfast if the  Republican Party  runs the risk of becoming the
minority party because of the issue, Bush said: “Not just
Latinos, but Asians as well.”  The growing immigrant community, he said, “will become the
dominant factor in politics.”  Bush said both parties have a “Groundhog’s Day approach”
to immigration policy that favors politics instead of policies.  Bush said he was in favor of better control over the
nation’s borders. “But then get to a different conversation
about American greatness that can be sustained over the long
haul, if we allow people to come in, embrace our values, fortify
them, and bring vitality and energy and an aspirational notion
about what it is to be an American,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tampa at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  