-- Romney Speaks of Mormon Faith to Try to Dispel Prejudice
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-08-30T19:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/romney-speaks-of-mormon-faith-to-try-to-dispel-prejudice.html
In the closing stretch of a campaign
in which he has seldom uttered the word “Mormon,”  Mitt Romney 
is opening up about his faith as he strives to present a more
textured self-portrait to undecided voters.  And Republican leaders -- some of whom have worried that
anti-Mormon views prevalent among evangelical Christians who
form a sizable chunk of the party base would damage Romney’s
chances of victory -- are working to dispel the stigma.  Former Arkansas Governor and Baptist minister  Mike Huckabee , in an address before the  Republican National
Convention  in Tampa, Florida last night, said he cares “far
less” about where Romney goes to church than about where he
would take the country.  Republican vice presidential nominee  Paul Ryan , a Catholic,
noted that he and Romney go to “different churches” yet share
the “same moral creed.”  And when he accepts the Republican presidential nomination
tonight, Romney will discuss his years as a Mormon bishop
ministering to troubled families, following testimonials about
his compassion by congregants and an invocation from a member of
the Church of  Jesus Christ  of Latter Day Saints.  “This is an opportunity to say how his faith informs his
thinking and his actions,” former  Florida  Governor Jeb Bush
said at a Bloomberg/Washington Post breakfast today. Romney’s
Mormon faith is “a powerful thing, and he’s never talked about
this. It’s interesting. I think it’s something to be proud of,
and I think it’s something to share.”  Sunday Footage  It will be the culmination of the campaign’s decision in
recent days to embrace discussion of Romney’s faith -- even
allowing the small group of reporters who track his movements to
photograph him attending church on Sundays -- after downplaying
the theme for much of the presidential race.  Taken together, the moves reflect a conclusion by Romney
and his advisers that discussing his years as a church leader --
when he helped congregants through difficult decisions on such
issues as abortion, financial woes and terminal illness -- would
help them combat his image as aloof and uncaring. It’s a
counterpoint to some better-known and less-sympathetic elements
of the ex-Massachusetts governor’s biography: his privileged
upbringing and $250 million fortune amassed during 25 years as a
private equity executive.  “I have seen him spend countless hours helping others,”
Romney’s wife, Ann, said in her Aug. 28 convention speech,
adding that she’s seen him answer “late-night calls of panic”
from “a member of our church.”  Not Political  “This is important -- I want you to hear what I am going
to say,”  Ann Romney  said. “Mitt does not like to talk about
how he has helped others because he sees it as a privilege --
not a political talking point.”  Politics did factor into Romney’s decision to stay quiet
about his religion -- as well as his eventual turnabout.  Aides and family members were divided over whether Romney
should speak more about his faith, given that some evangelical
Christians view it as a cult. They pointed to his loss in the
2008 Republican presidential primary as a lesson that it would
inflame that anti-Mormon bias. During that campaign, Romney
attempted to educate the public about his faith in an effort to
demystify it, even delivering a major 2007 address about his
religion.  This time, some strategists argued internally that the
political risks -- including obscuring Romney’s focus on the
economy and jobs -- were simply too high.  Post-Primary Change  The approach persisted throughout Romney’s drawn-out
Republican primary battle, even after he clinched the nomination
in April by defeating former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum ,
a Catholic who emphasized his religious conservative values and
talked often about his faith. This month, with the party nod all
but sealed, came Romney’s decision to allow a small contingent
of news media to witness all of his outings, including
photographing his entrances and exits from church.  Strategists say while it may have complicated his primary
race, Romney’s faith will only have a marginal effect on his
general-election campaign against President Barack Obama.  “There is a small, hard core of people who just aren’t
going to vote for a Mormon,” said  Richard Land , estimating the
group at between 10 percent and 15 percent of voters. “But I
think that for most evangelicals, whatever lingering discomfort
level they have with Romney’s Mormonism is trumped by their
increasing concerns about what a second term of  Barack Obama 
would look like.”  Women Voters  Romney’s decision to address his faith more publicly isn’t
for those voters, Land added: “I think this is for the
independents and women” who wonder whether Romney is
compassionate enough to be president.  Still, Republicans are using the convention this week to
increase religious conservatives’ comfort level with Romney’s
faith.  “Let me say to you tonight I care far less as to where
Mitt Romney takes his family to church than I do about where he
takes this country,” Huckabee said last night.  Ryan, who earns perfect ratings from anti-abortion rights
groups, noted that while they attend different churches, Romney
preaches by example. The soon-to-be-official nominee “is
prayerful and faithful and honorable. Not only a defender of
marriage, he offers an example of marriage at its best. Not only
a fine businessman, he’s a fine man,” Ryan said.  And the Wisconsin congressman said his running mate shares
his belief “that in every life there is goodness.” Romney, who
ran in  Massachusetts  as a supporter of abortion rights, now
describes himself as solidly “pro-life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Tampa, Florida at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  