-- Romney Readies Speech That Will Provide Personal Look
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2012-08-30T21:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/romney-readies-acceptance-speech-that-will-offer-personal-look.html
After spending years chasing the
Republican presidential nomination,  Mitt Romney  is preparing for
the biggest speech of his political career, an address that aims
to give voters a more personal look at him.  As he readied his remarks at the Republican National
Convention tonight in Tampa,  Florida , Romney spent the morning
thanking top donors, greeting family members and getting advice.
He also toured the convention stage in the afternoon, posing
with aides for photos and adjusting the teleprompters,  Former Florida Republican Governor  Jeb Bush  urged Romney to
connect emotionally with voters and “show his heart.”  “That’s been hard for a guy who’s been brought up,
trained, lived his life in a way of great discipline and
reserve,” Bush said at a Bloomberg/Washington Post breakfast
this morning. “By the way, it’s not a bad thing to be reserved
and humble and charitable and disciplined and hard-working. He’s
going to have to find a, you know, Romneyesque way of showing
who he is.”  Romney is under pressure to show undecided voters more
personality and emotion even as fiscal conservatives in his own
party say he must more clearly define his plans for reining in
the  federal budget   deficit  and improving the economy.  Vision and Attack  Romney plans to balance his biography with his vision for
the country and an attack on the Obama administration, said  Eric Fehrnstrom , a top campaign strategist. He also plans to talk
about his father, George, a former auto company executive and
governor of  Michigan , Fehrnstrom said.  “One thing we know about Mitt Romney is that he always
rises to the occasion,” Fehrnstrom said. “This is the biggest
speech of his political career and I have no doubt that he will
deliver the best speech of his political career.”  The final night of the party’s three-day gathering will
focus on telling Romney’s “personal story,” campaign adviser
Russ Schriefer told reporters on a conference call.  Romney, who failed in his bid for his party’s 2008
nomination, will be more open about his Mormon faith than he has
been previously, according to aides.  “This is a speech where he’s going to talk about what’s
informed his values, what’s informed his outlook,” Romney
spokesman  Kevin Madden  told reporters on his campaign plane
yesterday. “Of course, his faith is an important part of
that.”  Trying Moments  Before he speaks, members of his church are to tell the
convention how Romney helped support them during some of the
most trying moments of their lives. As a Mormon bishop, Romney
counseled many on his congregants of their toughest decisions,
from weighing whether to have an abortion to counseling parents
with dying children.  At a lunch today with 800 top donors in nearby  St.
Petersburg , Romney showed his appreciation for the hundreds of
millions they’ve raised for his candidacy.  “I owe so much to all of you for helping make our campaign
so successful,” he told fundraisers dining on roast beef.  The lunch was among perks offered to top contributors
during the convention. Donors received tote bags embossed with a
special campaign logo, were ushered to the convention podium for
photos and given private briefings from party strategists.  Earlier today, about 120 Romney relatives attending the
convention held a family reunion, with the candidate and his
wife, Ann, posing for pictures.  Own Funeral  “It’s like going to your own funeral,”  Ann Romney  told
donors this morning. “Everyone that has ever been associated
with you, that has ever known you in your life, you see. They’re
all there.”  Convention speeches usually don’t decide the outcome of the
race, said  Tony Fratto , a former spokesman for President  George W. Bush  -- though he said the addresses were seen as pivotal to
wins by Bush’s father, President  George H.W. Bush , in 1988 and
President  Bill Clinton  in 1992.  “This is a self-promotional business we’re in,” Fratto
said. “You need to sell yourself, your character, your ideas,
your confidence to voters.”  Part of tonight’s agenda will spotlight Romney’s career in
the private sector, including his time as head of Boston-based
private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC, with a film about Indiana-
based Steel Dynamics, a Bain investment.  Working at Bain  President  Barack Obama  and allied political action
committees have attacked Romney over his work at Bain, linking
him to job layoffs and outsourcing by companies that the Boston-
based private-equity firm invested in.  “We don’t need a president who wants to ship more jobs
overseas,” Obama said last month to about 1,200 supporters in
Cincinnati.  Romney’s campaign unveiled a new website today,
SterlingBusinessCareer.com, designed to paint a positive picture
of his business experience. The site features testimonials from
former executives of Staples Inc., Steel Dynamics Inc., and
Brookstone Inc., among other companies.  Tonight’s convention speakers also will tout Romney’s
record as governor of  Massachusetts  and former Olympians will
highlight his role overseeing the 2002 winter Olympics in  Salt
Lake City .  U.S. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who will introduce
Romney, said he wants to hear the nominee discuss “what role
should government play in America? What role should government
play in our economy?”  Romney and his running mate, Representative  Paul Ryan  of
 Wisconsin , will campaign together tomorrow, with appearances in
Florida and Virginia, two of the election’s most crucial swing
states.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Tampa, Florida, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net 
Catherine Dodge in Tampa, Florida at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  