-- Ruble Falls to Month-Low on Dollar Demand, Bernanke Speech
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-08-30T16:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/ruble-falls-to-month-low-on-lower-oil-bernanke-speech-tomorrow.html
The ruble retreated to the weakest
level in almost a month as demand for dollars rose to make
dividend payments to foreign owners and investors sold riskier
assets before a speech from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke .  Russia ’s currency depreciated 1.2 percent against the
dollar to 32.5800 at 7 p.m. in Moscow, falling a third day to
the lowest since July 25. The ruble retreated 1.1 percent versus
the euro to 40.7400 and slid 1.2 percent against the central
bank’s currency basket.  Demand for dollars increased as Russian companies pay
dividends, Anton Nikitin, an analyst with Moscow-based VTB
Capital, said by phone today. Ruble demand fell as companies
have made their month-end tax payments, he said. Emerging-market
stocks fell after improved U.S. data dimmed prospects of
Bernanke announcing additional stimulus measures in his address
at a symposium in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming .  “As a riskier asset, the ruble is largely dependent on
external markets which have been in a lull awaiting Bernanke’s
 Jackson Hole  address,” Nikitin said.  U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a 1.7 percent annual
rate from April through June, up from an initial estimate of 1.5
percent, data showed yesterday. Separate figures showed
Americans signed more contracts to purchase previously owned
homes in July.  Investors increased bets on the ruble weakening against the
dollar, with non-deliverable forwards showing the currency at
33.0455 in three months versus 32.6615 yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to own Russia’s dollar
bonds over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point to 223,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index. An index
of five-year government bond yields compiled by Micex fell 7
basis points to 7.59 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  