-- Ryan’s Convention Speech Draws Fewer Viewers Than Palin
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-08-30T22:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/ryan-s-convention-speech-draws-fewer-viewers-than-palin.html
Paul Ryan , the Republican vice
presidential nominee, drew fewer viewers than the 37.2 million
that nominee Sarah Palin attracted four years ago.  The final hour of convention coverage last night attracted
21.9 million viewers, when Ryan and former U.S. Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice addressed the crowd, according to
audience data provided today by Nielsen.  Palin, then governor of Alaska, was new to national
politics when John McCain chose her as running mate in 2008,
generating public anticipation over her speech. Ryan is well
known as chairman of the House Budget Committee and a leader of
GOP efforts to reform Medicare. He was among the people widely
mentioned as a possible nominee.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox News led the networks with 7.7 million
viewers, according to reports on two websites, TV Newser and TV
by the Numbers.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC network was second with 4.15
million in the 10 p.m. to 11 p.m. hour, when Ryan spoke.  Republicans are making their case for voters to replace
President Barack Obama and break with the administration’s
policies of the last four years. The convention, held in Tampa,
Florida, culminates tonight with a speech by Mitt Romney, the
party’s presidential nominee.  Among the other news outlets covering the convention,  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC attracted 2.86 million and CBS Corp.’s network
averaged 2.56 million, according to the two websites. On cable,
Comcast’s MSNBC attracted 1.44 million viewers and CNN, owned by
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  grabbed 1.34 million.  The speech was also carried on Public Broadcasting Service
stations and by Current TV.  The prior night’s coverage attracted 22.3 million viewers,
according to Nielsen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  