-- Ryan Says Obama’s Moment Has Passed, Joins Romney Ticket
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-08-30T05:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/ryan-says-obama-s-moment-has-passed-joins-romney-ticket.html
Republican vice presidential nominee
 Paul Ryan  portrayed  Barack Obama  as a shallow president who has
failed to live up to his promises, in a convention speech also
infused with an optimism reminiscent of Obama’s 2008 “yes we
can” campaign theme.  Arguing for a “clean break” from Obama, Ryan pledged that
he and  Mitt Romney , who will accept the party’s presidential
nomination tonight, would make the difficult decisions necessary
to improve the economy and create jobs. He vowed to use Medicare
-- an issue where Democrats traditionally have an advantage --as
a campaign cudgel against Obama, saying, “We want this
debate.”  “They’ve run out of ideas. Their moment came and went.
Fear and division is all they’ve got left,” Ryan said in a 37-
minute nationally televised speech from Tampa,  Florida , as he
formally accepted No. 2 spot on the ticket.  Ryan, the  Wisconsin  congressman who chairs the House Budget
Committee and the architect of Republicans’ budget blueprint,
was working to stoke the enthusiasm of his party and small-
government  Tea Party  activists who have been skeptical of Romney,
without exacerbating concerns among independents and swing
voters that he and Romney would gut popular programs.  Generation’s Calling  “I accept the calling of my generation to give our
children the America that was given to us, with opportunity for
the young and security for the old,” said Ryan, 42, whose wife,
three children and mother sat nearby in the Tampa Bay Times
Forum.  Ryan sought to turn his greatest potential liability into
an asset. He has proposed transforming Medicare into a system
that provides set contributions for future seniors to buy health
coverage rather than the benefits they now receive.  Democrats argue that would turns Medicare into a voucher
program; Ryan charged Obama with “raiding” the program.  He was referring to $716 billion in Medicare cuts, which
were used to finance Obama’s 2010 health-care law. The seven-
term congressman didn’t mention that his own budget also
maintained those reductions to lower the  deficit , a proposal he
only abandoned after Romney rejected the plan as part of their
joint platform.  Health Program  Romney’s choice of Ryan as his running mate has prompted a
debate over remaking the government health program for future
beneficiaries, a politically perilous proposition given its
popularity with seniors who vote in disproportionate numbers.  Criticizing the president in an earnest and measured tone,
Ryan described Obama as a politician long on rhetoric and
finger-pointing and short on accomplishments.  “Ladies and gentlemen, these past four years we have
suffered no shortage of words in the White House. What’s missing
is leadership in the White House,” Ryan said.  By emphasizing criticism of Obama in his speech, rather
than extolling his running mate’s qualifications or introducing
the public to his own background, Ryan risks defining himself as
the attack dog of the campaign, according to Rogan Kersh,
provost at  Wake Forest University  in Winston-Salem,  North
Carolina .  “The danger is that he defined himself as an attacker
foremost, and Americans tiring of a largely negative campaign
may be turned off by an initial glimpse of Ryan in consigliere
mode, doing the boss’s dirty work,” Kersh said.  Generational Gulf  A Midwesterner from Janesville, Wisconsin, known for his
affinity for hunting and fishing as well as the exercise regimen
P90-X, Ryan provided a contrast with the privileged background
and reserved demeanor of Romney, 65, at a time when Republicans
are pushing to appeal to younger voters. Emphasizing his
“small-town” roots, Ryan also noted the generational gulf,
gently ribbing Romney for his taste in music, comparing it to
what you would hear in a hotel elevator.  Ryan’s appearance on the convention stage during prime-time
marked a rare moment at a gathering that has mostly kept members
of Congress -- whose approval rating is barely in double digits
-- from the spotlight.  It underlined the stakes of Romney’s decision to team with
Ryan, thereby binding himself with congressional Republicans
better known for defying Obama and eschewing compromise than for
the consensus-building which Romney has said would mark his
governing style.  Postwar First  If Romney won, Ryan would be the first member of the House
directly elected to the vice presidency since John Nance Garner,
 Franklin Delano Roosevelt ’s running mate, in 1932.  His speech came the night after Romney’s wife, Ann, sought
to humanize her husband with a speech in which she urged voters
to “get to know” Mitt. To those who have yet to decide on
their presidential candidate, she said: “You can trust Mitt.”
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie also pitched in on the
outreach effort to key groups in a convention keynote that sang
the praises of the working class, voters in nonprofessional jobs
without college degrees.  Ryan, too, appealed to those workers disillusioned about
Obama, pointing to a  General Motors (GM)  factory in his hometown that
closed despite a promise from the president that with government
help, it would “be here for another hundred years.” Yet the
anecdote was misleading; the plant closed in December 2008,
before Obama took office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  