-- San Bernardino May Fire 100, Still Be Short $16 Million
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-08-30T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/san-bernardino-may-fire-100-still-be-short-16-million.html
San Bernardino, the third California
city to seek  bankruptcy protection  this year, may fire more than
100 workers and still have a $16.4 million budget deficit under
plans before the City Council.  The so-called pre-pendency  plan , part of the city’s Chapter
9 reorganization, would dismiss more than 100 of 1,140
employees, reduce hours at three fire stations and close two
centers intended to reduce  gang violence . The city of 209,000 is
about 60 miles (100 kilometers) east of  Los Angeles .  San Bernardino, Stockton and Mammoth Lakes all sought court
protection since the end of June. Cities across the most-
populous state suffered steep declines in  tax revenue  after the
recession depressed property values and reduced retail sales. At
the same time, local governments are burdened with higher
employee costs including pensions.  “We recognize that even with these proposed cuts and
reductions, there’s still a  budget deficit  that needs to be
addressed,” interim City Manager Andrea Travis-Miller told the
council yesterday.  The reductions, which include buying fewer bullets for
police and eliminating school crossing guards, would save about
$22.4 million. That would leave a $16.4 million deficit in a
$166.2 million budget, according to city documents.  Councilwoman Virginia Marquez called the proposals “a
bitter pill” and “catastrophic” for a city with an
unemployment rate of 19.9 percent in June, more than twice the
national average.  Special Funds  The council voted 6-1 to drain special funds for workers’
compensation and liability and unemployment insurance to
continue paying employees and providing basic services. San
Bernardino has about $7.8 million in all of its accounts and
owes creditors about $22 million, Travis-Miller said.  When the City Council initially voted to explore bankruptcy
in July, Travis-Miller said the city’s budget problems were
exacerbated by using the special funds to subsidize daily
operations, leaving the accounts underfunded.  City Councilwoman Wendy McCammack said yesterday’s action
to further tap the funds is only a stopgap measure.  “This is a portion of what forced us into bankruptcy, but
the reality is that if we had known what was going on, we would
have stopped the overspending with three ’no’ votes a long time
ago,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in San Bernardino, California at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  