-- Scangroup First-Half Profit Rises 8.6% on Billings
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-08-30T12:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/scangroup-first-half-profit-rises-8-6-on-billings-correct-.html
(Corrects percentage increase in headline, first paragraph
of story first published on Aug. 8.)  Scangroup Ltd.,  East Africa ’s biggest
marketing company by sales, said first-half profit rose 8.6
percent as billings increased.  Net income climbed to 406.6 million shillings ($4.8
million) in the six months through June, from 374.5 million
shillings a year earlier, the Nairobi-based company said in an
e-mailed statement today. Billings grew 5.9 percent to 5.94
billion shillings, while total sales surged 32 percent to 2
billion shillings, it said.  Advertising spending in Kenya surged 43 percent in the
first half of 2012 to 40.1 billion shillings, compared with the
same period a year earlier, according to Ipsos-Synovate, the
Nairobi-based market-research firm. Scangroup’s clients include
 Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) ,  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc. (RB/)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,
who are among  Kenya ’s top five advertisers, Ipsos-Synovate
figures show. Kenya accounts for 60 percent of Scangroup’s total
billings, according to Kestrel.  Revenue was boosted by increased business from new markets
including Ghana, Rwanda and Nigeria, Kestrel Capital (East
Africa) Ltd. said in a research note. The company plans to
expand further in west and southern Africa, Kestrel analyst Joy
Migongo said.  “We expect improved performance in the second half, buoyed
by better macro-economic conditions,” Migongo said. “We also
believe that Scangroup’s vast network, which currently spans 16
countries in Africa, will enable the company to attract more
multinational advertising budgets due to its ability to provide
services across many markets.”  Shares in Scangroup were unchanged at 57.50 shillings by
11:36 a.m. in Nairobi, the capital. The stock has surged 39
percent so far this year, outperforming a 26 percent increase in
the Nairobi Securities Exchange  All Share Index (NSEASI)  over the same
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  