-- ING’s Sale of Canada Online Bank May Help State Repayment
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-08-30T12:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/scotiabank-agrees-to-buy-ing-unit-for-c-3-13-billion.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s $3.16 billion sale of
its Canadian online bank to  Bank of Nova Scotia  may put the
largest Dutch financial-services company closer to repaying
state aid from its 2008 bailout.  The transaction, announced late yesterday, is expected to
lead to a 1.1 billion-euro ($1.4 billion) gain after tax,
Amsterdam-based ING said in a statement. Selling the Canada unit
will also free up about 1.4 billion euros in capital.  Following its bailout, ING was ordered by the European
Union to sell its insurance operations, its U.S. online bank and
Dutch mortgage lender WestlandUtrecht Bank before the end of
2013. It’s in discussions with buyers for its Asian life
insurance operations and may sell the business in parts to
generate higher proceeds, Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen
said earlier this month.  “They may now be able to repay at least 2 billion euros
from excess capital in the bank, so they need to raise less from
the insurance IPOs to repay the Dutch state,” said Benoit Petrarque, an Amsterdam-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets.  ING  rose  as much as 4.5 percent, and was up 3.7 percent to
5.98 euros by 2:25 p.m. in Amsterdam trading. The stock was the
biggest gainer among the 32 companies in the  Stoxx Europe 600
Insurance Index. (SXIP)   “We expect to repay another part of aid this year, as
we’ve indicated before,” said Raymond Vermeulen, a spokesman
for ING.  Banking Review  ING said in January it would review “non-core banking
assets in addition to sales imposed on it by European regulators
after a target of repaying its government bailout in 2012 became
less certain amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and stiffer regulatory
burdens. The firm, which received 10 billion euros in aid from
the Netherlands in 2008, has so far returned 7 billion euros,
plus 2 billion euros in interest and premiums.  The Canada sale should boost ING’s core Tier 1 capital
ratio by 47 basis points to about 11.6 percent, if applied to
the ratio as of June 30. A basis point is a hundredth of a
percentage point. Scotiabank will pay C$3.13 billion ($3.16
billion) including excess capital in the unit.  “For this price if someone comes to you, you should be
able to decide quickly,” said Petrarque.  ‘Better Price’  Hommen sold the company’s U.S. online bank to  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  for about $9 billion in February, and disposed
of the Latin American insurance operations last year. The firm
has also sold a real estate investment-management business and
car-lease unit.  “We believe the deal will lead to at least 5 percent
outperformance today, as the deal comes faster and at a better
price than expected,” said Jan Willem Weidema, an Amsterdam-
based analyst at ABN Amro Bank. “The shares could even move up
more, as the deal changes the momentum in the stock.”  As the firm continues with its divestments, it remains
engaged in talks with the European Union on a revised
restructuring plan. The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s
executive arm, said in May it would re-examine conditions
attached to ING’s rescue after a court overturned some of the
terms agreed on earlier.  ‘Good Deal’  The Brussels-based regulator today invited interested
parties to comment on alternative restructuring measures
proposed by ING and on whether the firm has breached previous
commitments. The regulator said it will seek comment until Sept.
30.  Scotiabank,  Canada ’s third-largest lender, will spend C$1.9
billion after deducting excess capital at ING Direct in the cash
deal, the Toronto-based bank said yesterday in a statement.
Scotiabank will sell 29 million shares at C$52 each for proceeds
of C$1.51 billion to fund the takeover.  “It looks like a good deal,” said Anil Tahiliani, head of
North American equities at Calgary-based McLean & Partners
Wealth Management Ltd., which manages about C$1 billion
including Scotiabank shares. “They’re buying ING to strengthen
their retail operations in Canada,” he said by phone.  North American banks including Scotiabank are taking
advantage of Europe’s turmoil to buy operations and assets from
competitors on the continent that need to raise cash.  Scotiabank said the transaction will add C$30 billion in
retail deposits to its balance sheet and 1.8 million customers.
ING Direct has assets of about C$40 billion in Canada and
employs 1,100 people. Scotiabank, which has expanded mostly in
 Asia  and  Latin America  over the past decade, had C$670 billion
in assets at the end of July. It will keep the ING Direct brand.  Bank Takeovers  The deal, expected to close in December, would be the
biggest bank takeover in  North America  this year after PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. bought Royal Bank of Canada’s U.S.
unit for $3.5 billion in March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  agreed to buy Hudson City Bancorp for
about $3.7 billion in a transaction expected to close in the
second quarter of 2013.  The takeover is the biggest bank deal in Canada since
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  bought Canada Trust for C$8 billion in
1999, Bloomberg data show.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  acquired National
Trustco Inc. in 1997 for C$1.21 billion, and Toronto-Dominion
bought 57 branches from  Laurentian Bank of Canada (LB)  in 2003 for
C$112.5 million.  ING Bank of Canada is the largest foreign-based lender in
Canada after  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , according to data from the
country’s banking regulator. ING is Canada’s eighth-biggest bank
by assets in the country.  ING started its Internet bank in Canada, its first
branchless venture, in 1997. It built the division through a
television advertising campaign in which Dutch actor Frederik de
Groot urged Canadians to “Save your money” in accented English
and French and criticized fees charged to the nation’s
established banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  