-- Scotiabank Makes C$3.13 Billion No-Frills Bet
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-08-30T20:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/scotiabank-makes-c-3-13-billion-no-frills-bet.html
Bank of Nova Scotia  is betting on
the market for no-frills, high-interest banking with a proposed
C$3.13 billion ($3.16 billion) purchase of the Canadian unit of
 ING Groep NV (INGA)  in its biggest acquisition.  Canada ’s third-largest bank agreed late yesterday to
acquire ING Direct, spending C$1.9 billion after deducting
excess capital at the unit and selling C$1.51 billion in
Scotiabank stock. The cash purchase will add C$30 billion in
deposits, the bank said in a statement.  Scotiabank and its competitors face a slowdown in domestic
 consumer banking  next year on concern fewer Canadians will use
credit and buy homes.  ING Direct , led by Chief Executive Officer
Peter Aceto, has built a base of 1.8 million customers by
offering alternative products to customers such as high-interest
 savings accounts .  ING identified a niche that’s growing, said Anatol von Hahn, head of Canadian banking at Scotiabank. “It’s a simple,
strong, good, no-frills direct channel,” Von Hahn said in an
interview at the bank’s Toronto headquarters yesterday. “They
became the eighth-largest bank in Canada in 15 years. That’s
pretty awesome.”  The transaction comes a day after Scotiabank, along with
smaller competitor  Bank of Montreal , unexpectedly boosted
quarterly dividends while reporting fiscal third-quarter results
that topped analysts’ estimates.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , Toronto-
Dominion Bank and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce followed
suit today, raising dividends after beating earnings
expectations.  Striking Distance  “While expensive in our view, we admit that BNS will
improve its funding base with the deal, which is extremely
important,”  Brian Klock , an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods,
said in a note to investors.  ING Direct, which employs 1,100 people, will continue to
operate as a separate unit of Scotiabank and market itself as a
no-frills alternative to larger lenders, Von Hahn said.
Scotiabank expects to retain all of ING’s clients while
expanding the platform in Canada, the bank said yesterday.  The acquisition puts Scotiabank “within striking
distance” of  Royal Bank of Canada  and  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,
the county’s two biggest lenders by deposits, Von Hahn said.
Scotiabank will go from about 10.5 percent market share on
retail deposits to 13 percent, he said.  Toronto-Dominion has 14.4 percent deposit market share
while Royal Bank of Canada has 13.6 percent, according to
Scotiabank.  “The acquisition is quite significant,” said  Michael Smedley , who helps oversee about C$1 billion at Morgan Meighen &
Associates in Toronto. “It’s a very aggressive move by Scotia
on the domestic front, where they tend to be regarded as middle-
of-the-road in the domestic banking business.”  Long-Term Positive  Canada’s banking system, ranked the world’s soundest by the
 World Economic Forum , avoided many of the writedowns taken by
global competitors during the financial crisis and didn’t
receive any government bailouts.  “It goes to show again that the Canadian market remains a
very attractive financial services market,” said Anil Tahiliani, head of North American equities at Calgary-based
McLean & Partners Wealth Management Ltd., which owns  Bank of
Nova Scotia (BNS)  shares among about C$1 billion in assets. “As a BNS
shareholder this is a long-term positive,” Tahiliani said by
phone.  North American banks including Scotiabank are taking
advantage of  Europe ’s turmoil to buy operations and assets from
competitors on the continent that need to raise cash. Under
pressure from regulators, ING is reviewing which units to sell
as plans to repay a government bailout this year becomes less
certain.  Acquisitions  ING, the biggest Dutch financial-services firm, received 10
billion euros of state aid in 2008. Following its bailout, the
Amsterdam-based bank was ordered by the European Union to sell
its insurance operations, its U.S. online bank and Dutch
mortgage lender WestlandUtrecht Bank before the end of 2013.  Scotiabank’s strategy is built on organic growth rather
than acquisition, Von Hahn said. “If, along the way,
opportunities present themselves and they fit in our strategy,
then we will take a look at it,” he said.  Scotiabank was in acquisition talks with ING for about four
months, he said.  ING is in discussions with buyers for its Asian life
insurance operations and may sell the business in parts to
generate higher proceeds, Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen
said earlier this month. ING has so far repaid 7 billion euros
of aid as well as 2 billion euros in interest and premiums.  ING  Hommen sold the company’s U.S. online bank to Capital One
Financial Corp. for about $9 billion in February, and disposed
of the Latin American insurance operations last year. The firm
has also divested a real estate investment-management business
and car-lease unit.  The Canadian transaction is expected to lead to a 1.1
billion-euro gain after tax, Amsterdam-based ING said in a
statement. The sale, releasing 1.4 billion euros in capital,
should boost ING’s core Tier 1 ratio by 47 basis points, to
about 11.6 percent if applied to the ratio as of June 30, ING
said.  The deal, expected to close in December, would be the
biggest bank takeover in  North America  this year after  PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  bought  Royal Bank of Canada ’s U.S.
unit for $3.5 billion in March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. M&T Bank Corp. agreed to buy Hudson City Bancorp for
about $3.7 billion in a transaction expected to close in the
second quarter of 2013.  Biggest Takeover  Scotiabank closed little changed at C$52.30 in Toronto and
has risen 2.9 percent this year.  The takeover is the biggest bank deal in Canada since
Toronto-Dominion bought CT Financial Services for C$8 billion in
1999, Bloomberg data show.  ING started its Internet bank in Canada, its first
branchless venture, in 1997. It built the division through a
television advertising campaign in which Dutch actor Frederik de
Groot urged Canadians to “Save your money” in accented English
and French and criticized fees charged to the nation’s
established banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  