-- Shell Wins U.S. Permit to Prepare for Arctic Drilling
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-08-30T22:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/shell-wins-u-s-permit-to-prepare-for-arctic-drilling.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  said it will
be difficult to complete an exploratory well in the Chukchi Sea
off  Alaska  this year even after the company received a permit to
begin limited preparatory work.  Shell will be allowed to drill 1,400 feet under the seabed
with the permit granted yesterday by the U.S. Interior
Department. The company still needs U.S. Coast Guard approval
for a spill-containment barge before a permit can be issued to
drill about 4,000 feet deeper, into oil reservoirs.  For the company that spent $4.5 billion to explore the
Chukchi and Beaufort seas time is running out -- it takes at
least 20 days to complete a well and Shell has to stop drilling
in the oil-bearing zone in the  Chukchi Sea  by Sept. 24. The
company asked for an extension, a request the Interior
Department said it is still considering.  Completing a well in the Chukchi “will be very, very
difficult without the extension,” Pete Slaiby, Shell’s head of
Alaska operations, told reporters during a conference call from
Anchorage yesterday.  Shell, which initially planned five wells this year, was
delayed by ice and getting approvals for a barge it plans to use
for oil spill containment.  Shell expects the Noble Discoverer drilling rig to arrive
on drilling site in the Chukchi Sea today and start the
preparatory work next week, Slaiby said. The work allowed under
yesterday’s permit accounts for about two weeks out of the time
required for an exploratory well, he said.  Coast Guard  The company has yet to get the U.S. Coast Guard certificate
for the barge and Interior Department permit to drill into the
 oil fields .  Environmental groups, which oppose Arctic drilling,
criticized the decision to allow Shell to do preparatory work,
saying that even shallow drilling is risky and problems with the
barge show that Shell is unprepared to operate in extreme Arctic
conditions.  “It is disappointing that our government continues to bend
over backward to accommodate a company that is still not ready
to drill,” Michael LeVine, senior counsel for Washington-based
group Oceana, said in an e-mail today. “There is no price tag
on the Arctic. No matter how much money the company spends or
how many vessels it mobilizes, Shell should not be allowed put
the  Arctic Ocean  at risk.”  Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said drilling to 1,400 feet
is safe, and that the agency will ensure Shell will meet all
requirements before it’s allowed to reach to the offshore oil
fields.  “We are holding Shell’s feet to the fire,” Salazar said
during a conference call yesterday. “We don’t even know if
there is going to be exploration.”  While work in the  Beaufort Sea  can continue until the end
of October, the company hasn’t obtained a permit to start
preparatory drilling there. It is seeking one.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  