-- Simpson Thacher, DLA Piper, Chadbourne, Hogan: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-08-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/simpson-thacher-dla-piper-chadbourne-hogan-business-of-law.html
Daikin Industries Ltd. (6367) , the world’s
largest air-conditioner maker, will buy Goodman Global Inc. for
$3.7 billion to expand its home heating and cooling business in
 North America .  The companies and Goodman owner Hellman & Friedman LLC
signed an agreement yesterday under which  Osaka , Japan-based
Daikin will buy all of the closely held company’s stock,
according to a statement. Daikin will use  bonds and loans  to
help finance the purchase, and said it doesn’t plan to sell
stock.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is representing Goodman
Global Group, Inc. and its controlling shareholders, investment
funds affiliated with Hellman & Friedman LLC.  Davis Polk &
Wardwell LLP is advising Daikin Industries.  The Simpson Thacher team includes Rich Capelouto, Atif
Azher, Jon Amt, Erica Stalnecker, Joel Beck-Coon and Brian
Osimiri, on mergers and acquisitions; Katharine Moir and Jason
Vollbracht, tax; Tristan Brown and Linda Barrett, executive
compensation and employee benefits; Tim Mulvihill,
environmental; Brian Steinhardt, credit; Lori Lesser and
Samantha Himelman, intellectual property; and Krista McManus
real Estate.  The Davis Polk corporate team includes partners George R. Bason Jr., Theodore A. Paradise, Mischa Travers and Michael Davis. Partner Ronan P. Harty is providing antitrust advice.
Partner Lawrence E. Wieman is providing credit advice. Partners
Jeffrey P. Crandall and Kyoko Takahashi Lin are providing
employee benefits advice. Partner Frank J. Azzopardi is
providing intellectual property advice. Partner Avishai Shachar
is providing tax advice.  The  deal  gives Daikin more than 900 distribution points as
it tries to boost sales for home heating and air-conditioning
systems. Daikin  fell  the most in almost a month as Moody’s
Investors Service said the acquisition may prompt it to cut the
company’s credit rating.  The transaction will be completed by Dec. 31, pending
regulatory approval, the companies said. Daikin plans to borrow
money for the purchase from the  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation  to take advantage of the “emergency facility to
counter the strong yen,” it said in the statement.  The deal would be the third-largest overseas acquisition by
a Japanese company this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The largest was Dentsu Inc.’s $4.5 billion purchase
of  Aegis Group Plc (AGS)  announced last month.  For more, click here.  Firm News  DLA Piper Acquires French Firm Frieh Bouhenic  DLA Piper LLP announced yesterday that it will join offices
with Paris boutique law firm Frieh Bouhenic. The merger,
effective Oct. 1, will create a Paris office with more than 30
partners and 40 additional lawyers, the firm said in a
statement.  Frieh Bouhenic was established in January 2011 as the
result of a merger between Frieh & Associes and Bouhenic Baudin
& Associes. The firm has been led by former Linklaters LLP
partner Michel Frieh. The firm has expertise in business law,
particularly in the fields of mergers and acquisitions, private
equity, acquisition and corporate financings, litigation,
employment, restructuring and insolvency, according to  DLA
Piper .  “Paris is one of the key markets in  Europe  for DLA Piper
and this move, in addition to the significant hires we have
already made, adds to our existing corporate and finance
capabilities in  France  which is part of the firm’s strategic
vision,” Ulrich Juengst, DLA Piper’s managing director, Europe,
said in a statement.  The Paris office will be led jointly by Bijan Eghbal, who
heads DLA Piper’s Paris employment, pensions and benefits team
and Frieh.  Chadbourne Names Frix as Washington Managing Partner  Dana Frix has been named managing partner of the Washington
office of Chadbourne & Parke LLP as of Sept. 1. He will continue
to serve as chairman of the firm’s telecommunications, media and
technology practice group.  Frix will be responsible for the strategic direction and
growth of the office, which is the firm’s second largest, with
more than 60 lawyers. The office focuses on project finance,
corporate, antitrust, communications and technology, tax,
insurance and reinsurance, white-collar defense, government
investigations and environmental law.  “Dana Frix brings significant leadership skills, client
service acumen and energy to the role. He has an excellent track
record of working with CEOs and CFOs to help them achieve their
growth objectives,” said Andrew Giaccia, managing partner of
Chadbourne & Parke.  Frix joined Chadbourne in 2002. He focuses on corporate,
regulatory and anti-competition matters in these sectors. He
also advises companies in administrative and civil litigation
matters, specializing in those involving public policy issues
arising from the Federal Communications Commission and Federal
Trade Commission regulation.  News  WellPoint CEO Resigns; General Counsel Serves as Interim CEO  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest U.S. health insurer, has
started the search for a new chief executive officer after
Angela Braly, in the job for five years, resigned Aug. 28 under
pressure from shareholders.  Investors are looking for a CEO who can right the
Indianapolis-based company’s financial performance and integrate
WellPoint’s recent  deals  to buy Medicaid insurer Amerigroup
Corp. and vision company 1-800-Contacts Inc.  John Cannon, WellPoint’s general counsel, will serve as
interim CEO while WellPoint searches for a permanent
replacement, the insurer said in a statement. Cannon isn’t a
candidate for the job, according to the statement.  Even before the resignation, investors had suggested James Carlson, the Amerigroup CEO, David Snow Jr., the former chief of
Medco Health Solutions Inc., and Gail Boudreaux, the head of the
health plan division at  UnitedHealth, (UNH)  as possible candidates to
replace her, said  Jason Gurda , of Leerink Swann & Co. in New
York, and Thomas Carroll, of Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.  Names touted from within the company included Chief
Financial Officer Wayne Deveydt and Kenneth Goulet, an executive
vice president, the analysts said in telephone interviews.  Braly, 51, was ousted after investors, some publicly,
expressed discontent with her management. Over the past two
weeks, Jackie Ward, WellPoint’s lead independent director, and a
second board member met with shareholders to hear their
concerns, according to a person familiar with the discussions
who wasn’t authorized to comment because the talks were private.
The board met yesterday afternoon and reached an agreement with
Braly that she should resign, the person said.  For more, click here.  Moves  Hogan Lovell Hires Linklaters Banking Partner  Hogan Lovells LLP appointed Alexander McMyn a banking
partner in  Singapore . He joins from Linklaters LLP in Singapore
where he has been based since relocating from the London office
in 2008, Hogan said.  McMyn advises financial institutions and companies on
banking, structured finance and asset finance transactions. He
focuses on inbound and outbound investments to  Southeast Asia ,
particularly Indonesia and  India .  His previous work included advising the arrangers on the $6
billion facilities made available to Vedanta Resources Plc for
the $9 billion acquisition of Cairn India Ltd., the firm said.  McMyn will work closely with Hong Kong banking partners to
provide coverage in Southeast Asia on acquisition and asset
finance transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn,  New York , at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  