-- Slovenian Economy Probably Contracted in Second Quarter
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-08-30T13:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/slovenian-economy-probably-contracted-in-second-quarter.html
Slovenia’s  economy  shrank in the
second quarter as exports to  Europe  eased and consumption
faltered after the government’s austerity measures, a survey of
economists showed.  Gross domestic product contracted 1.2 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a 0.2 percent drop in the first three
months, according to the  median estimate  of six economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The  statistics office  will publish its GDP
report at 10:30 a.m. in Ljubljana tomorrow.  “It looks like the Slovenian economy deteriorated in the
second quarter,” said  William Jackson , an emerging-markets
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “The outlook for
the Slovenian economy is pretty grim as exports will continue to
struggle against a backdrop of a recession in the  euro zone . And
the combination of fiscal austerity and fragile banks will hold
back domestic demand.”  Economists from London to Warsaw have said Slovenia is on
course to seek international assistance as the economy is on the
verge of entering its second recession in three years and its
lenders rely on the European Central Bank loans for liquidity.
Slovenia’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service,
 Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  in early August because of
domestic banks’ need for fresh capital. All three rating
companies keep a negative outlook on the sovereign.  Yields Climb  Slovenia’s borrowing costs surged above 7 percent earlier
this month, a threshold that forced Ireland and  Portugal  to ask
for an international bailout. Slovenia’s bonds maturing in
January gained today and the yield fell 34 basis points to 6.78
percent at 2:17 p.m. in Ljubljana. It reached 7.92 percent on
Aug. 14, the highest since November, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Government bond yields have been over 7 percent for much
of the past few weeks, but for now the government appears to be
OK with these borrowing costs,” Jackson said. “For the
government to seek help, it would probably require a fresh
flare-up in tensions in the euro zone, causing local bond yields
to spike and making borrowing prohibitively costly.”  The government of Prime Minister  Janez Jansa , which came to
power in February after early elections, has denied it will seek
assistance from the European Union to prop up its banking
industry. The administration is also pushing to implement
spending cuts and tax increases to gain investor confidence as
the debt crisis that started more than two years ago in  Greece 
continues to roil markets.  Swaps  The cost of insuring  government bonds  using credit default
swaps was at 497 basis points after reaching a record high of
510 basis points on Aug. 15, according data compiled by
Bloomberg. Swaps rise as the perception of creditworthiness
declines. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Slovenia’s GDP will shrink 2 percent in 2012, according to
an estimate by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. That compares with a 1.4 percent contraction
forecast by the European Commission and a 0.9 percent drop
estimated by the government’s economic institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  