-- Somalia Food Crisis Seen Easing After `Exceptional' Crop
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-08-30T09:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/somalia-food-crisis-seen-easing-after-exceptional-crop.html
Somalia ’s food crisis is easing
after an “exceptional” harvest in the past season, while
humanitarian assistance is still needed to stave off hunger in
the region, the Famine Early Warning Systems network reported.  About 2.12 million people will experience “acute food
security crisis” from August to December, 16 percent less than
at the beginning of 2012, the U.S.-funded provider of food-
security warnings wrote in a  statement  on its website dated Aug.
29. Food stockpiles after the country’s secondary, or so-called
Deyr, harvest in January will help offset “significantly below
average” output in the main harvest currently under way. Total
production for 2012 will be “average,” FEWS said.  “The improved situation is attributed to sustained
humanitarian interventions over the last 12 months, improved
food stocks at the household and market levels following an
exceptional January 2012 Deyr harvest, and improved milk
availability and higher livestock prices in most pastoral areas
of Somalia,” FEWS said. “Despite these improvements,
lifesaving humanitarian assistance remains necessary.”  The number of children requiring nutrition treatment has
dropped 27 percent since January, in part because of improved
availability of milk, FEWS said. About 236,000 children are
“severely malnourished,” with 70 percent of those in the south
of the country, FEWS said.  A possible mild or moderate El Nino, a warming of Pacific
Ocean waters that affects global weather patterns, may benefit
growers in Somalia because the phenomenon may bring average to
above-average rains from October to December, FEWS said. Still,
El Nino may cause flooding if rains are too heavy, according to
the report.  Rising international  food  prices, especially for wheat and
sugar, may impact Somalia by the end of the year, FEWS said.
While prices of maize and sorghum are likely to rise seasonally
in the next six months, they may remain “substantially lower
than in 2011,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  