-- Somali Forces Advance on al-Qaeda-Linked Militia’s Stronghold
-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 2012-08-30T11:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/somali-forces-advance-on-al-qaeda-linked-militia-s-stronghold.html
African Union-backed Somali
government forces advanced to within 50 kilometers (31 miles) of
the port city of Kismayo, one of the last bastions of al-Qaeda-
linked militants, an army official said.  Fighting in the villages of Aglibah, Janaay, Abdulle and
Birta Dheer yesterday left at least 60 al-Shabaab fighters dead,
General Ismail Sahardiid, commander of forces in the Lower Jubba
region, said on state-run Radio Mogadishu today.  The army plans to approach Kismayo “carefully” and the
port city may be seized from the Islamist al-Shabaab militia
“within a week,” he said.  Kismayo is a strategic target for government forces because
it is a key supply route for al-Shabaab and a source of taxes
the group collects, according to the  United Nations . The Somali
army, aided by African Union peacekeepers, along with Ethiopian
soldiers, have been gaining territory from al-Shabaab since
seizing the capital, Mogadishu, in August 2011. Three days ago,
the troops captured the port of Marka, 110 kilometers south of
Mogadishu.  Al-Shabaab said it killed “dozens” of Somali forces in
yesterday’s fighting, which took place in villages that are
situated on the road between the town of Afmadow and Kismayo.  Residents of Kismayo are concerned that an attack by Somali
government forces may also result in heavy casualties, said
Ibrahim Abdu Sheikh, a local businessman.  “Heavily armed al-Shabaab forces are driving around the
city in their battle wagons, while many armored vehicles have
been placed on the outskirts of the city,” he said in a phone
interview today.  Al-Shabaab has led an insurgency against Somalia’s UN-
backed government since at least 2006, and still controls parts
of territory in southern and central regions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu at 
 ohamsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  