-- South Africa Posts Biggest Monthly Budget Deficit
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-08-30T14:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/south-africa-posts-biggest-monthly-budget-deficit.html
South Africa  posted a record monthly
 budget deficit  of 57.5 billion rand ($6.8 billion) in July as
state expenditure surged, the National Treasury said.  Spending climbed by 12 billion rand to 97.5 billion rand
last month from a year earlier, the Pretoria-based Treasury said
in a statement on its website today. Revenue fell 3 percent to
39.9 billion rand in the same period.  “The deficit number is a disappointment,”  Leon Myburgh ,
sub-Saharan Africa strategist at Citigroup Inc. in Johannesburg,
said in an e-mailed response to queries. “Revenues were soft
while expenditure accelerated. The outcome was quite a bit worse
than what the full-year budget implies it should have been.”  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  has pledged to reduce the
fiscal shortfall to 3 percent of gross domestic product by the
year through March 2015 from 4.6 percent this year.  Standard &
Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have cut
their outlook on South African credit rating since November,
warning that the government may miss its deficit targets.  The budget deficit for the first four months of the fiscal
year widened to 87 billion rand from 81.3 billion rand in the
same period a year ago, the Treasury said.  Government revenues have come under pressure as a debt
crisis in Europe cuts export demand, restricting growth in
Africa’s biggest economy. Gordhan said on Aug. 16 the government
will probably lower its growth forecasts in coming months. In
February, he predicted the economy will expand 2.7 percent this
year.  “The previous three months had seen very good outcomes,”
Myburgh said. “The July number erases much of the positive
outcomes of the previous months, but if this is a one-month
anomaly then the full-year target is not yet at risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  