-- South Africa Inequity is Revolution Risk, Motlanthe Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-08-30T10:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/south-africa-inequity-is-revolution-risk-motlanthe-says.html
South Africa  is at risk of
revolution unless it reduces high levels of inequality and
poverty, Deputy President  Kgalema Motlanthe  said.  “The distribution of wealth is unfair, very skewed in
favor of a few,” Motlanthe told reporters in Cape Town late
yesterday. “It is something to be worried about. It’s an
ingredient for revolution.”  The wealth gap has fueled discontent among mainly black,
jobless  South Africans  excluded from the gains Africa’s largest
economy has made since the end of apartheid in 1994. Poor
communities staged 113 protests against a lack of housing,
sanitation and other services in the first seven months of this
year, more than in any other year since monitoring began in
2004, according to Municipal IQ, an independent local government
research group.  “As public representatives we are not covering ourselves
in glory,” Motlanthe said. “In many respects we are failing
our people.”  Motlanthe, who is also deputy president of the ruling
 African National Congress , is backed by the party’s youth league
as a possible candidate to replace President  Jacob Zuma  at an
ANC elective conference in December. While party nominations
only open in October and Motlanthe has yet to declare his
candidacy for the top post, he has made several recent speeches
criticizing the government’s performance.  ‘Untenable Position’  The government’s failure in reducing the 25 percent
 unemployment rate  has left too many people dependent on state
welfare, the deputy president said.  “We are already in an untenable position in the sense that
we already have 15 million recipients of grants,” he said.
“That is not sustainable. It does not address the totality of
what is required to attain a better life for all.”  Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan today echoed Motlanthe’s
concern that high levels of inequality may add to discontent.  “Unless the world and indeed ourselves in South Africa
find a solution to economic inclusivity, combined with really
serious and deep political inclusivity, we will have serious
 fault lines ,” Gordhan told a conference in Johannesburg today.
“Nations fail when they have non-inclusive political and
economic institutions.”  The Gini coefficient, a measure of  income inequality , is
0.68 in South Africa, one of the highest in the world and more
than the 0.67 at the end of white segregationist rule.  Motlanthe rejected claims that violence at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s
Marikana platinum mine in North West province this month that
led to the death of 44 workers, police and security guards may
deter investment in the  mining industry .  “Mining is unique in the sense that you can’t take it to
another country,” Motlanthe said. “Investors know that. They
are also aware that the industrial relations in South Africa
actually produce a very stable work milieu. We don’t expect that
investors would be put off or discouraged by these tragic
developments in Marikana.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  