-- Spain Delays Decision on Sovereign Bailout Until Terms Are Clear
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-08-30T14:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/spain-delays-decision-on-sovereign-bailout-until-terms-are-clear.html
Spain  will delay deciding whether to
seek a sovereign bailout until the aid conditions are clear,
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said following a meeting with
French President  Francois Hollande .  The two chiefs, who held talks in Madrid today, pressed the
 European Central Bank  to implement decisions from a June summit
to reduce borrowing costs in Spain and Italy as euro-area policy
makers struggle to enact an emergency plan.  “In the same way as when we asked for the help for the
financial sector because we thought it was good for Spain, so
that credit recovers and so that there would be economic growth
and jobs, when it’s known exactly what’s on offer, I will take a
decision,” Rajoy told a joint briefing.  The discussions today were part of a round-robin of
European diplomacy intended to contain a financial crisis that
began in 2009 in  Greece  and has metastasized into a threat to
the world’s second-biggest reserve currency. German Chancellor
Angela Merkel and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  sparred
yesterday over giving the bailout fund a bank license to boost
its bond-buying capacity.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  took to the German media
yesterday to take on Bundesbank orthrdoxy in pressing his case
for extraordinary market intervention.  “Don’t count on me to make it even more complicated for
President Draghi to carry out his responsibilities,” Hollande
said, declining to comment. Hollande said he wanted the June 29
decisions to be implemented “in the best possible timing.”  Spain Push  Spain is urging unlimited bond purchases by the ECB to help
lower borrowing costs that rose to euro era records last month.
Draghi has yet to spell the details of a plan announced Aug. 2
amid opposition from  Germany ’s Bundesbank.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond rose 12 basis
points to 6.59 percent at 3:55 p.m. in  Madrid , widening the gap
with similar German maturities to 5.25 percentage points. That
compares with a euro-era record of 6.5 points on July 25.  Rajoy opened the door to another European intervention
within weeks of signing off on up to 100 billion euros ($125
billion) in loans for its banks. He now has a full diplomatic
agenda to “reach a definitive solution to funding problems,”
Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said Aug. 24.  Rajoy commented today in response to a Spanish reporter’s
question asking him to respond to speculation that the
government would delay a potential bailout until after regional
elections are in Galicia and the Basque Country on Oct. 21.  After EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  and France’s Hollande
this week, Rajoy will meet German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  on
Sept. 6, Finnish Premier Jyrki Katainen on Sept. 11 and Italian
Prime Minister Mario Monti on Sept. 20-21.  Jackson Hole  Rajoy is multiplying meetings as Draghi canceled a trip to
the annual  Jackson Hole  economic symposium in the U.S. this week
to shepherd the ECB’s negotiations over the bond purchases in
the run-up to the central bank’s next meeting on Sept. 6, which
is also the day Spain’s next auction is scheduled.  A decision may not be taken until a Sept. 12 ruling by
Germany’s supreme court on the viability of the planned euro
rescue fund, two central bank officials who declined to be
identified said last week.  Spanish Finance Minister Luis de Guindos yesterday said
Euro-region finance ministers will work out details of a plan to
bring down bond spreads at a meeting in Cyprus on Sept. 14 and
15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Madrid at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  