-- St. Jude Eliminates 300 Jobs as It Reorganizes Divisions
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-08-30T20:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/st-jude-eliminates-300-jobs-as-it-reorganizes-divisions.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) , a maker of
heart rhythm devices, said it is firing 300 workers in a
reorganization that will save $50 million to $60 million in
annual pretax expenses starting next year.  St. Jude is merging its four divisions into two product
operating units, the implantable electronic systems division and
the cardiovascular and ablation technologies division, the  St.
Paul , Minnesota-based company said today in a statement. The
move will allow the company to bundle support and other staff,
improve efficiency and cut costs.  St. Jude said in July that its 2012  outlook  is worsening as
last year’s recall of Riata, a defibrillator wire, hampers sales
of other products and a stronger dollar erodes overseas profit.
Sales of devices that manage heart rhythms, including
defibrillators to shock the heart and pacemakers to regulate it,
fell 6 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier.  “This is another piece of fallout that we can attribute at
least in large part to the medical device tax,” said Thomas Gunderson, senior analyst at Minneapolis-based Piper Jaffray &
Co., in a telephone interview. “From a shareholder standpoint
and Wall Street standpoint, it’s always good to cut expenses.”  Medical device makers will have to pay a 2.3 percent excise
tax on products starting next year. The levy was designed to
raise $20 billion to expand coverage of the uninsured as part of
the 2010 health-care reform law.  St. Jude  declined  less than 1 percent to $37.80 at the
close of  New York  trading. The company has dropped 17 percent in
the past 12 months.  Sales Skid  Sales of pacemakers and defibrillators have declined among
concerns about safety and overuse, even as hospitals and
insurers are paying less for the potentially life-saving
technology. St. Jude’s sales are expected to decline 1 percent
to $5.55 billion in 2012, the first year-over-year decrease
since at least 1990, according to the  average estimate  of 22
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “The reorganization we have announced today is part of a
comprehensive plan to accelerate our growth,” Daniel Starks,
chairman, president and chief executive officer of St. Jude,
said in the statement. “We are focused on reducing costs,
leveraging economies of scale, maintaining the highest level of
quality, and funding our entire portfolio of new growth
drivers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  