-- Stanford’s Burdette Delays Medical School to Make U.S. Open Run
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-08-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/stanford-s-burdette-delays-medical-school-to-make-u-s-open-run.html
Mallory Burdette began the summer
preparing for a career in psychiatry. She’s ending it with a
surprise run at the U.S. Open tennis tournament that might
change her outlook when she returns to  Stanford University .  Burdette, 21, a wild-card invitee to the season’s final
Grand Slam tournament, advanced to a third-round match against
No. 3 seed  Maria Sharapova  with a 6-2, 6-4 win yesterday against
Lucie Hradecka of the  Czech Republic .  Burdette, from Jackson,  Georgia , is making her Grand Slam
singles debut at the National Tennis Center in New York. She had
been concentrating on getting to medical school before earning
an unexpected U.S. Open spot.  “I really want to be a psychiatrist, so I was interested
in med school,” she said in a news conference. “My success
this summer has kind of taken me in a different path a little
bit. I think my focus will be a little bit different when I go
back to school.”  Burdette, ranked  No. 252  in the world, decided to play in
some professional tournaments this summer to see how she enjoyed
life on the road, and won an International Tennis Federation Pro
Circuit event in  Vancouver  to earn a wild card in New York.  “To end up here at the  U.S. Open  was a huge surprise,”
said Burdette, a captain at Stanford. “I never expected that at
the beginning of the summer. It’s been a crazy ride.”  Burdette, who will be a senior at Stanford, was an All-
American in singles and doubles as a junior. She partnered with
Nicole Gibbs to win the  National Collegiate Athletic Association 
doubles title, and lost to Gibbs in the NCAA singles final.  $65,000 Unclaimed  If she was a professional, Burdette would have earned
$65,000 so far in New York by reaching the third round. She said
she isn’t thinking about how much she’s passing up.  “I have already checked the amateur box, so if I know
correctly, you can’t go back once the tournament starts,”
Burdette told reporters. “So it’s done.”  Sharapova, 25, the 2006 U.S. Open champion, won her second-
round match 6-0, 6-1 last night against Lourdes Dominguez Lino
of  Spain . She has dropped five games in her first two matches at
this year’s tournament.  Burdette said she has “always looked up to” Sharapova and,
as a future psychiatrist, admires the Russian’s approach on the
court. Sharapova turns her back to her opponent before every
point to prepare for the next series of shots.  “She’s very meticulous between points, doing her
routines,” Burdette said. “You can tell she’s in the zone
every time she walks up to play a point.”  The 5-foot-10 (1.78-meter) Burdette won all nine of her
service games against Hradecka, who is ranked 69th in the world,
using an attacking style on the court.  Tennis Family  She is not the first member of her family to excel in the
sport. An older sister, Erin, was a four-time All-American at
Stanford in 2002-05 and another older sister, Lindsay, was a
four-time All-American for the Cardinal in 2007-10. Her older
brother, Andy, played college tennis at Army.  Though becoming a professional tennis player has long been
her goal, Burdette said she didn’t expect to be winning Grand
Slam matches so soon.  “I never thought I would have this type of success in
singles, honestly,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster at the National Tennis Center,  New York  at
   rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  