-- Suez Environnement Takes Additional Measures to Protect Profits
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2012-08-30T15:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/suez-environnement-takes-additional-measures-to-protect-profits.html
Suez Environnement, Europe’s second-
biggest water company, is cutting costs and investment after its
waste-handling business was hurt by the slowing economy.  “We have decided to take additional measures in order to
protect our profits in the best way we can,” Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Louis Chaussade said today in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. These include “slowly” reducing
investment and additional cost-cutting steps, he said.  Chaussade joined other executives from some of  France ’s
biggest companies, gathered for an annual conference organized
by the employers’ group Medef outside Paris, in calling for
policies to spur growth. Suez Environnment, which is 36 percent
owned by  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, reported an 82 percent slump in first-half
profit as the volume of waste handled dropped in response to
lower factory output.  “There is a direct relation between waste volumes and
industrial activity,” the CEO said. “We need to get back
industrial growth.”  Suez Environnement said earlier this month it would raise a
cost-savings target by 40 million euros ($50 million) this year
to 150 million euros and reduce net investment by 100 million
euros. Some smaller assets may be sold, the company said.  Visibility is “very difficult” for the next year given
slowing economic growth in  Europe , the U.S. and  China , Chaussade
said in today’s interview.  No Difficulties  The utility’s biggest market after France is Spain, which
is considering a second European bailout amid a recession and an
unemployment rate of about 25 percent.  Even so, Suez Environnement hasn’t faced any difficulties
in getting Spaniards to pay their water bills.  “We do not see for the time being any difficulties with
payments,” Chaussade said. “Spain is reacting to its
difficulties by asking private companies to take care of more
networks and users. There are opportunities.”  Spanish water prices are “well below” the European
average while investment is needed in infrastructure, according
to the French utility, which controls  Spain ’s largest non-state
water supplier Sociedad General de Aguas de Barcelona SA, or
Agbar.  To help low-income households, Suez Environnement has
reduced rates, according to Chaussade.  The French government will unveil a proposed law as early
as next week for so-called social tariffs for water, power and
natural gas, Environment and Energy Minister Delphine Batho said
yesterday. Under the plan, rates would rise depending on volumes
consumed.  “We are promoters of social tariffs,” Chaussade said in
the interview. “We are convinced that it is a solution that is
needed in France. But if there are lower rates for the first
cubic meters of water for the most vulnerable people then you
have to get this back on other clients.”  The shares fell 3.1 percent to 8.778 euros as of the close
of trading in Paris. The stock is down 24 percent in the past 12
months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  