-- Summer Affair With $89,000 Porsche Ends in Heartbreak
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-08-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/summer-affair-with-89-000-porsche-ends-in-heartbreak.html
This is a story about a doomed
summer romance. From the first flirt to the last tearful
goodbye, it’s a classic tale of a downtown boy meeting an uptown
car.  I’ve known the  Porsche Boxster  since the late 1990s, when
it was the youngster in Porsche’s lineup. More a flirt than a
full-blown vixen, the 201-horsepower, two-seat roadster took an
agonizingly long time to drop its automated top and wasn’t a
powerhouse on the freeway, but it sure knew its way down a windy
road.  It wasn’t until very recently that the Boxster got a Vogue-
worthy makeover, with a sharpened rear, bigger wheels and
sensuous side scoops. Now it looks like a miniature version of
Porsche’s defunct supercar, the Carrera GT.  There’s something distinctly European to the contours, like
the car’s most natural habitat should be the Amalfi Coast. I
must admit that when photos were first released, my heart knew
lust.  The S model starts at $61,850 with a six-speed manual
transmission. The engine is a 3.4-liter six-cylinder with 315 hp
and 266 pound-feet of torque. Located in the center of the car,
behind the seats, it guarantees a fine weight balance.  Red Leather  My lovely test car somehow came to a budget-bracing
$88,720, with a costly list of options from adaptive sports
seats to a very sexy “Carrera Red” leather interior. The
latter is not necessary, but boy does it look good.  Like all first dates should be, ours took place at night.
After a lengthy blast down the highway, I exited onto a winding
side road. I stopped long enough to put down the soft top, which
took a mere nine seconds. Wow.  The new Boxster is available with an automated double-
clutch transmission, which is faster and more fuel efficient
than the manual. The gearbox is brilliant in the latest 911.
It’s also an extra $3,200.  Yet the old-school manual made me happy, a perfect
companion to the light, fast car. More intimate, more engaging,
more fulfilling.  I bulleted down the two-lane road, Xenon headlamps gouging
out a path in the inky dark. Side windows down, the air buffeted
me from all sides, the radio silenced so I could better hear the
sound of the flat-six engine.  Buzz Saw  That noise, so special to a  Porsche (PAH3) , reminds me of a buzz
saw, forceful and visceral.  The car’s steering is no longer hydraulic, but it is
surgically precise, with perfect heft and an infinite amount of
control. The steering wheel only needs a small twist to alter
course, and you can effortlessly hold a single line through long
sweeping turns.  Seating position is upright, with a racing-proper kink in
your arms. It had the optional  sport chrono  package and torque
vectoring technology, which selectively brakes the inside rear
wheel to help the car turn.  That drive was only the first blush. In the coming days,
the Boxster and I would rendezvous again and again, finding our
way through twisty bits of road at immodest speeds.  The Boxster has always been well balanced, and older models
are easy to toss around. You could get the rear ends to step
out. The new one is different.  Pirelli Tires  The chassis has been completely and magically reworked. My
car had optional 20-inch wheels with  Pirelli (PC)  tires with serious
grip, and I almost never elicited noise from them as I whipsawed
through tight corkscrews. While there are limits to the
Boxster’s traction, I wouldn’t care to find them on a public
road.  We passed several perfect summer days this way. Butterflies
floated around me as I paused at stop signs; a hawk followed my
path along a creek-side road. My face tanned. What better place
to spend the summer than in the roadster’s alluring embrace? We
seemed so right for each other.  But I was ignoring the warning signs. I asked a group of
friends I was meeting in the country if they wouldn’t mind
stopping by my  New York  apartment to pick up some stuff that
wouldn’t fit in the front compartment of the Boxster. No bother,
right?  There just isn’t that much room for personal property. No
easy perch for your mobile phone, and Porsche’s answer to cup
holders, swinging arms that come out of the dash, is as asinine
as ever. I was almost embarrassed to bring along my coffee mug.  Bus Ride  Then a friend asked if I could pick him up, but I already
had another passenger, and there are only two seats. He was
consigned to the bus. (I gave him a ride in the car later, top
down. He was satisfied.)  The summer was running short, and my time with the car even
shorter. I didn’t want the fling to end. Perhaps something could
be done.  I looked at the sticker price. What could I do without? The
$185 Porsche crests on the wheel caps and $670 six-disk CD
changer could go. I could even part with the red leather
interior.  But who was I kidding? The Porsche was way out of my
league. I can only hope that my Boxster S finds a good home with
an owner whose summer romance never ends.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  gadgets  and
Lance Esplund on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 