-- U.K. Mortgage Approvals Increased in July From 18-Month Low
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-08-30T09:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/u-k-mortgage-approvals-increased-in-july-from-18-month-low.html
U.K.  mortgage approvals  rose in July
from an 18-month low the previous month when an extra public
holiday slowed housing activity.  Lenders granted 47,312 loans to buy homes, compared with
44,124 in June, the  Bank of England  said today in London.
Economists predicted approvals would rise to 47,000, based on
the median of 16 estimates in Bloomberg News survey. The total
remains below the average for the previous six months of 50,729.  House prices  are under pressure as banks restrict lending
and Britain’s economy struggles to recover from  a recession. 
While the Bank of England and the Treasury are assessing the
impact of their Funding for Lending Scheme, designed to boost
credit to companies and households, a report by Hometrack Ltd.
showed  house prices  fell in August for a second month.  “Mortgage activity remains very close to record low levels
since early 2010, a sign that the housing market is struggling
to improve,” said Annalisa Piazza, an analyst at Newedge Group
in London. “It will take a few months to see the effects of the
additional policy accommodation. Until then, we expect housing
activity to remain very subdued.”  Net mortgage lending rose 1.13 billion pounds ($1.8
billion) in July from June, according to the Bank of England
report. Net  consumer credit  fell 220 million pounds. The central
bank has changed the consumer credit data and said it now
excludes  student loans .  Property Pressure  Mortgage approvals are at less than half their monthly
average in the decade to 2007, before the financial crisis
struck. Hometrack said on Aug. 27 that  home prices  fell 0.1
percent this month amid a “fragile” market. In the year to
date, demand for property has risen 10 percent, lagging behind a
19 percent surge in supply and adding to downward pressure on
prices, it said.  The Bank of England also said today that M4 money supply
rose 0.5 percent in July from the previous month and was down
4.6 percent from a year earlier.  A measure of M4 money-supply growth the central bank uses
to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases was at 5
percent in the three months through July on an annualized basis.
That compares with 2.9 percent growth in the three months
through June. The gauge excludes financial companies that
specialize in intermediating between banks, such as holding
companies and non-bank credit grantors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  