-- U.K. Economic Forecasts Lowered by CBI as Downside Risks Remain
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-30T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/u-k-economic-forecasts-lowered-by-cbi-as-downside-risks-remain.html
Britain’s economy will shrink this
year for the first time since 2009 and “downside risks”
remain, the  Confederation of British Industry  said.  Gross domestic product will fall 0.3 percent this year and
rise 1.2 percent in 2013, the London-based business lobby said
today. It previously predicted growth of 0.6 percent and 2
percent, respectively. Still, CBI Director General  John Cridland 
said reducing the  budget deficit  should remain the government’s
priority and it’s not asking Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to change his fiscal plans.  The CBI also said the economy may strengthen in the second
half of 2012 after it shrank 0.3 percent in the  first quarter 
and 0.5 percent in the three months through June. The group sees
expansion of 0.6 percent in the third quarter and 0.2 percent in
the final three months of the year.  The Bank of England cut its growth forecasts earlier this
month and said the outlook is “unusually uncertain.” Recent
indicators suggest the economy is still struggling to recover
amid the euro-area turmoil and weak domestic confidence, with
gauges of both manufacturing and  services  falling in July.  “The economy is flat rather than falling, but,
nonetheless, momentum seems to have weakened,” Cridland said at
a press conference today. “Underlying growth will return to the
economy later in the year than previously expected, with a
somewhat better outlook next year. The risks are very much on
the downside.”  The  Bank of England  is in the middle of a 50 billion-pound
($79 billion) round of  bond purchases  that’s due to end in
November. Anna Leach, the CBI’s head of economic analysis, said
the CBI’s new economic forecasts assume no further expansion of
quantitative easing.  “But it remains on the table should there be a further
escalation in the euro-zone crisis,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  