-- U.K. Stocks Decline as Asian Reports Show Growth Abating
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-08-30T15:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/u-k-stocks-little-changed-as-asian-data-show-slow-growth.html
U.K. stocks  fell for a third day as
data from Japan and Korea added to evidence that global growth
is slowing, amid speculation that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  won’t announce new stimulus measures tomorrow.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and Glencore International Plc lost more than 2
percent after Qatar Holding LLC said it will vote against a
planned merger.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  slid 2.1 percent as iron ore
prices plunged to a three-year low in China.  Hays Plc (HAS)  dropped
8.8 percent after saying several markets will stay very
challenging. WPP Plc lost 1.6 percent after the world’s largest
advertising company cut its sales-growth forecast.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  retreated 0.4 percent to 5,719.45, a
four-week low, at the close in London. The broader FTSE All-
Share Index and Ireland’s ISEQ Index both also fell 0.4 percent.
Stocks declined yesterday as a selloff in mining companies
outweighed data showing the U.S. economy expanded at a faster
pace in the second quarter than previously estimated.  “Investors started to realize Bernanke probably won’t give
more details of a new round of stimulus tomorrow, particularly
after the positive GDP number earlier in the week,” said  Edmund Shing , an equity strategist at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in London. “It’s
not that central bank action won’t happen, it just won’t happen
right now, and that leaves markets with uncertainty, which they
don’t like. ”  In the U.S., the Fed said late yesterday in its Beige Book
business survey that the economy continued to expand
“gradually,” damping speculationBernanke will announce a
third round of bond purchases.  Bernanke Speech  Bernanke is due to deliver his annual speech at the central
bank’s symposium tomorrow in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming. His address
in 2010 preceded a second round of bond purchases, or
quantitative easing, to support economic growth.  Speculation that central banks will do more to bolster
growth has helped drive up equity markets with the S&P 500
rallying 10 percent since June 1 and the Stoxx 600 climbing 13
percent from June 4.  Japan’s  retail sales  fell 0.8 percent in July from a year
earlier, more than economists forecast, as people bought fewer
TVs and drank less beer. In South Korea, confidence among
manufacturers stayed near the lowest level since the global
financial crisis, while data out of Australia showed home-
building approvals tumbled by the most in almost a decade.  Xstrata, Glencore  Xstrata fell 2.5 percent to 901 pence and  Glencore (GLEN)  dropped
3 percent to 357.45 pence. Qatar Holding, the investment arm of
the nation’s sovereign wealth fund, said it plans to vote its 12
percent stake in Xstrata against Glencore’s $31 billion offer
for the mining company.  “Although it continues to support the principle of a
combination of Glencore with Xstrata, it has determined that it
will not support the proposed merger terms,” the fund said
today in a statement. Qatar Holding “believes that Xstrata has
a strong future, whether in combination with Glencore on
acceptable terms or as a stand-alone entity, and that its shares
represent an attractive long-term investment.”  Rio Tinto , the second-largest iron-ore producer, lost 2.1
percent to 2,715.5 pence after iron ore prices fell.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the  world’s biggest mining group , declined 3.3
percent to 1,842 pence  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  and  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) , which mine copper
in India and Kazakhstan, slid 3.2 percent to 861 pence, and 4.9
percent to 586.5 pence, respectively. Copper consumption in
China, the world’s biggest user, is expected to expand this year
at the slowest rate since 1997 as economic growth cools,
according to Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  Barclays Drops  Barclays Plc fell 1.5 percent to 183.5 pence as the second-
biggest U.K. lender picked  Antony Jenkins  as its CEO, promoting
the head of its consumer banking business as the U.K. lender
recovers from the Libor scandal that forced out  Robert Diamond .  Barclays confirmed after the close of trading yesterday
that it is facing a criminal probe into fees it paid to Qatar’s
sovereign wealth fund in 2008 as the bank sought to raise money
to avoid a government bailout.  Hays dropped 8.8 percent to 69.9 pence after the British
recruiter said the economic backdrop will remain hard, while
several markets remain very challenging. Hays reported full-year
sales of 3.65 billion pounds ($5.8 billion), compared with
analyst estimates of 3.63 billion pounds, while adjusted
earnings per share were 5.47 pence, beating a 5.40 pence
estimate.  WPP (WPP)  slid 1.6 percent to 818.5 pence after the advertising
company reduced its full-year revenue-growth forecast as clients
cut spending amid the European debt crisis. Sales excluding the
impact of acquisitions and currency fluctuations will grow
“close to 3.5 percent” this year versus an earlier forecast
for 4 percent, the company said.  JJB Sports Plc (JJB) , the Lancashire-based sporting goods
retailer, plunged 84 percent to 0.39 pence, its lowest price
since at least 1994, after the company was put up for sale,
saying it won’t be able to raise the level of funds necessary to
execute a turnaround.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  