-- U.S. Lawmakers Appeal to Uzbek Leader Over Raid on MTS
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-08-30T13:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/u-s-lawmakers-appeal-to-uzbek-leader-over-raid-on-mts-1-.html
U.S. lawmakers urged  Uzbekistan ’s
president to resolve a conflict over New York-listed  OAO Mobile
TeleSystems (MBT) , the Russian phone operator that had its local
license withdrawn and employees detained, warning investment in
the Central Asian state may suffer.  “If not resolved in a timely and transparent manner, this
situation will negatively impact the perception of Uzbekistan’s
business climate,” five U.S. congressmen, led by Representative
Dan Burton of  Indiana , wrote in the letter to President Islam Karimov, dated Aug. 27 and obtained by Bloomberg. “The
detention of employees may be particularly damaging to
investment in the technology sector.”  A U.S. delegation recently visited Uzbekistan as the
country, ruled by Karimov since 1990, seeks investment in
technology, according to the letter.  Shares in MTS, as the biggest wireless phone operator in
 Russia  is known, have lost 7.7 percent from the high this year
on May 2 in  New York , trimming its value to $18.8 billion, based
on yesterday’s close. U.S. investors in the company include
“funds representing government employees, teachers and members
of the military,” according to the letter.  Tax Claims  In June, Uzbekistan arrested MTS’s interim general
director, who was later freed, and four local executives. MTS’s
Uzdunrobita unit had its license withdrawn and faces about $1.2
billion of claims from the state, including tax and antitrust
claims.  “We’re very pleased the seriousness of the situation has
been noticed by international governments,” Josh Tulgan,
director of  investor relations  at MTS in Moscow, said by phone.  MTS reported a second-quarter net loss of $682 million on
Aug. 28, following a $1.08 billion writedown on its assets in
Uzbekistan.  Renaissance Capital , Otkritie Capital and Deutsche
Bank cut their  stock recommendations  for MTS over the past two
weeks before the earnings on expectations of the Uzbekistan
writedown.  The loss of business in Uzbekistan has “mostly” been
reflected in MTS’s share price and there’s “little downside”
potential, Sergey Libin, a Moscow-based analyst at Raiffeisen
Bank, said by e-mail. “Any positive news coming out of
Uzbekistan should be well-received by the market.”  MTS rose 0.7 percent to 242.61 rubles by 4:52 p.m. in
Moscow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  