-- U.S. Stocks Confound Bears Seeing Summer Drop
-- B y   A n d r e w   R u m m e r   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-08-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/u-s-stocks-confound-bears-seeing-summer-drop.html
The August rally in stocks
confounded bears who predicted the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
would repeat last year’s summer slump.  As the CHART OF THE DAY illustrates, the S&P 500 tracked
its 2011 performance in the first seven months of the year. The
relationship broke down at the end of July as European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do whatever it takes to
preserve the euro and speculation grew that Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will herald further bond purchases at
his speech in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, today.  Albert Edwards , a London-based strategist at Societe
Generale SA, used a version of this chart in a July 25 report
that asked “is the S&P replaying 2011?” and said the U.S.
economy looks to have returned to recession. The same day,  Bob Janjuah , global head of tactical asset allocation at Nomura
Holdings Inc., predicted a “major risk-off phase” in the
coming four months with global stocks falling by as much as 20
percent to 25 percent.  “If it hadn’t been for Draghi’s ‘We will do everything’
remark, the S&P 500 would’ve followed the 2011 script,” said
 Manish Singh , the London-based head of investment at Crossbridge
Capital, which has more than $2 billion under management. “The
ECB has played the main role in making this year different.”  The S&P 500 sank 5.7 percent in August 2011, and a further
7.2 percent the following month, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities advanced 2.3 percent
this month though the Aug. 29 close.  “We expected returns to be quite decent in August and
still do going forward,” said Daniel McCormack, a strategist at
Macquarie Securities Ltd. in London. “If you look at the
background coming into the month, valuations were extreme and
when that is the case you don’t need much in the way of good
news to get markets moving.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Rummer in  London  at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  