-- U.S. Grain Users Test for Corn Toxin as Drought Spurs Mold
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-08-30T20:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/u-s-grain-users-test-for-corn-toxin-as-drought-spurs-mold-risk.html
Grain elevators and milk processors
are testing for a corn toxin that can be fatal to livestock and
cause cancer in humans after the worst Midwest drought in 56
years spurred an increased risk of contamination.  Iowa , the largest U.S. corn producer, has ordered milk
processors including Dallas-based  Dean Foods Co. (DF)  to screen for
the toxin in raw milk received at state processing plants
beginning tomorrow. Many grain companies are testing every load
farmers deliver for the fungal disease that produces aflatoxin,
according to Chip Flory, the editor of the Professional Farmers
of America agribusiness newsletter in  Cedar Falls ,  Iowa .  Aflatoxins, chemicals produced by mold fungi, are
considered carcinogenic to animals and humans, according to Iowa
State University. Conditions are prime for the fungus to produce
toxin during warm August nights in a period of drought,
according to a  document  on the University’s website. Corn prices
climbed to a record this month as hot, dry weather scorched
fields.  “The markets are worried about the problem, but we just
don’t know how widespread or concentrated the mold is in the
Midwest,” Flory said in a telephone interview. “We need to get
more of the crop harvested” before being able to assess the
scope of the contamination, he said.  Flory, who toured fields in Iowa,  Minnesota ,  Nebraska  and
 South Dakota  last week, said he saw evidence of the mold in
about 13 percent of the samples he took from more than 60
fields. Testing grain is a challenge because the mold can appear
in highly variable levels within a field, and the presence of
mold does not necessarily lead to aflatoxin, Flory said.  Livestock Feed  The  Food and Drug Administration  doesn’t allow corn
containing aflatoxin in  concentrations  of greater than 20 parts
per billion for human consumption or for use in feed for dairy
animals or for immature livestock of other species. Corn
containing aflatoxin at 100 parts per billion or less can be
used in breeding cattle and swine and mature poultry, while corn
with 300 parts or less can be used in finishing beef cattle.  “We were well aware that aflatoxin could be an issue this
year due to the historic drought conditions,” Bill Northey,
Iowa’s secretary of agriculture, said in a statement on Aug. 28.
“Now that farmers are starting to harvest silage, and corn in
some cases, it is appropriate to begin this screening process to
make sure our milk supply remains safe.”  Iowa Request  On Aug. 15, Iowa’s Department of Agriculture submitted a
request to the FDA to allow for corn containing restricted
levels of the toxin to be blended with not-contaminated grain
for used in  animal feed . The agency has granted a similar
request in previous years.  U.S. corn production will drop 13 percent from a year
earlier because of the drought, the Department of Agriculture
estimates. Futures on the  Chicago  Board of Trade fell 0.6
percent today to $8.085 a bushel after touching a record $8.49
on Aug. 10.  There have been several reports of aflatoxin detected in
southern Iowa and also a few reports from central Iowa, Alison
Robertson, a plant pathologist at  Iowa State University  in Ames,
said in a  report  this week. Levels of aflatoxin ranged from 8
parts per billion to almost 200 parts, Robertson said.  Strict regulations and testing of finished foods and feeds
should prevent a major health scare, and human exposure to high
levels of aflatoxin is rare, according to Mark Tarter, the
general manager of  Effingham Equity Ag Services , a 91-year-old
cooperative based in Effingham,  Illinois .  Effingham Buyers  “We are fortunate that we have a diverse agricultural base
of animal production to sell corn,” Tarter said. “We will be
railing in corn from other areas of the country by early next
year” to make up for yields that were cut as much as 75 percent
by the drought this year, he said in a telephone interview.  The Effingham buyers have rejected two loads of corn for
exceeding the 300 parts per billion level of aflatoxin this year
in an area about 200 miles south of Chicago where drought has
been the most severe in the state, Tarter said. About 72 percent
of all the corn the company has bought tested below the 20-parts
threshold, he said. The cooperative separates the corn to
maintain quality for animal feed sales.  “People are hopeful that aflatoxin will be an isolated
problem,”  Don Roose , the president of U.S. Commodities Inc. in
 West Des Moines , Iowa, said in a telephone interview. “So far
the mold has been less widespread than the grain trade has
feared.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  