-- U.S. Stocks Fall as Economic Reports Fuel Growth Concern
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-30T20:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/u-s-stock-futures-drop-on-euro-area-economic-report.html
U.S. stocks retreated, trimming the
third straight monthly advance for the benchmark Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, amid concern about a worsening of Europe’s
debt crisis and of a further slowdown of the global economy.  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  slumped 7.9 percent as the retailer
will be replaced in the S&P 500 by chemical maker  LyondellBasell
Industries NV. (LYB)   Ciena Corp. (CIEN) , a maker of communications-network
equipment, tumbled 20 percent after reporting a wider-than-
projected loss and forecasting lower revenue than analysts had
estimated.  Gap (GPS)  Inc. rose 2.7 percent as sales beat estimates.  The S&P 500 declined 0.8 percent to 1,399.48 at 4 p.m. New
York time, trimming its monthly advance to 1.5 percent. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  retreated 106.77 points, or 0.8
percent, to 13,000.71 today. Volume for exchange-listed stocks
in the U.S. was 4.5 billion shares, near the lowest level since
at least 2008 excluding days surrounding holidays.  “The main focus is the softer news overseas,” said
 Michael Strauss , who helps oversee about $26 billion of assets
as the chief investment strategist at Commonfund in Wilton,
Connecticut. “There’s more of a reality check of Europe.
Clearly the numbers in the U.S. have gotten a bit better.”  Equities slumped as data showed that economic confidence in
the euro area and Japan’s retail sales fell more than economists
forecast, while South Korean manufacturers’ confidence stayed
near the lowest level since the global financial crisis. Spain
will delay deciding whether to seek a sovereign bailout until
the aid conditions are clear, Prime Minister Mariano Rajoysaid
following a meeting with French President  Francois Hollande .  U.S. Data  In the U.S., more Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week, a sign that
progress in the labor market is faltering amid a slowing
economy. Consumer spending climbed in July for the first time in
three months as the biggest part of the economy struggled to
overcome a jobless rate hovering over 8 percent.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to
speak tomorrow in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, where he may discuss
the economic outlook. Policy makers have said they are prepared
to provide new stimulus “fairly soon” unless there is evidence
of “substantial and sustainable” improvement in the recovery,
according to minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July
31-Aug. 1 meeting. Policy makers are set to meet in September.  Sears fell 7.9 percent to $52.90. S&P said the company has
too few shares available for trading to be representative of
U.S. companies. The retailer has 106.5 million shares
outstanding and 36.1 million shares that can be traded, based on
data compiled by Bloomberg. It is controlled by hedge-fund
manager  Edward Lampert . He and his RBS Partners LP hedge fund
own a total of  61.7 percent , while Fairholme Capital Management
has 15.8 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ciena Tumbles  Ciena tumbled 20 percent to $13.46. The economy is taking a
toll, and Ciena has been slow to book revenue on new products,
Chief Executive Officer  Gary Smith  said. Ciena’s biggest
customers are phone carriers such as AT&T Inc.  August same-store sales at Gap, the biggest U.S. specialty-
apparel retailer, climbed 9 percent, beating the average
projection for a 5.5 percent gain from analysts surveyed by
researcher Retail Metrics Inc. The shares added 2.7 percent to
$36.11.  Visteon Corp. (VC)  jumped 8.7 percent to $46.16 after South
Korean auto-parts maker Mando Corp. said it may bid for
Visteon’s 70 percent stake in Halla Climate Control Corp.,
Mando’s former affiliate.  Pandora Media Inc. (P)  soared 14 percent to $11.52. The
Internet radio service reported break-even second-quarter
results, excluding some items, beating analysts’ estimates.  Stimulus Bets  The  S&P 500  has climbed 11 percent in 2012 as global
central banks have taken action to boost economic growth. The
gauge may rally to 1,500 this year even as investors contend
with rising risks created by modern market structure, said
Laszlo Birinyi, president of Birinyi Associates Inc.  Birinyi, founder of the Westport, Connecticut-based
research and money-management firm, reiterated the bullish call
on shares that he has made since the S&P 500 began its  108
percent rally  3 1/2 years ago. His analysis is based in part on
a comparison to past bull markets that started with gains such
as the 29 percent advance during March and April 2009.  “If this  market  continues to track history -- and to date
nothing has been a better guide -- we could see 1,500 before
year end,” wrote Birinyi, who advised clients to buy equities
before they bottomed in March 2009. “We like the market in part
because it is a bull market. The day-to-day commentary is all
good and fine for information but the reality is that in a bull
market stocks go up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  