-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Rise as Jobless Claims Exceed Forecast
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-30T21:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/u-s-company-credit-swaps-rise-as-jobless-claims-exceed-forecast.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk
rose to the highest in two weeks after data showed more
Americans than forecast filed applications for  unemployment
benefits , signaling progress in the labor market is faltering.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, added 2 basis points to a mid-price of 102.9
basis points, the highest since Aug. 15, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The swaps index, on track for its third straight monthly
decline, climbed after the Labor Department reported today in
Washington that jobless claims were little changed at 374,000 in
the week ended Aug. 25, higher than the median estimate of
370,000 in a Bloomberg survey. The report stoked concern the
recovery is slowing as investors await a speech tomorrow by
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and progress from
European leaders seeking to stem the region’s debt crisis.  “The fixed-income markets to a degree are on hold until
Bernanke speaks tomorrow,” Dan Heckman, senior fixed income
strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management, which oversees $80
billion, said in a telephone interview from Kansas City.
“Despite a lot of rhetoric,” from the  European Central Bank ,
he said, “we’re still not seeing any concrete steps.”  Monthly Decline  The swaps measure, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, reached a 15-
week low of 98.5 basis points on Aug. 20, and has dropped 4.6
basis points in August. The contracts pay the buyer face value
if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of
the defaulted debt.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate swap spread , a measure of
debt market stress, narrowed 0.04 basis point to 17.25 basis
points. The measure, which falls when investors favor assets
such as corporate bonds and rises when they seek the perceived
safety of  government securities , is down from 54.7 in November,
the widest since May 2009.  The number of so-called weakest links in the debt markets,
those issuers rated B- and lower with negative outlooks, held at
128 through Aug. 22 with total rated debt of $237 billion,
 Standard & Poor’s  global fixed-income research group said in a
note today. The U.S. had 78 weakest links, the most of any area,
the New York-based group, led by  Diane Vazza , said in the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  