-- Lufthansa Flight Attendants Plan Strike Over Pay Tomorrow
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-08-30T20:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/lufthansa-flight-attendants-plan-strike-over-pay-tomorrow.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s main cabin
crew union said it plans a strike in Frankfurt tomorrow from 5
a.m. to 1 p.m. in the first walkout of a 13-month wage dispute.  The Unabhaengige Flugbegleiter Organisation announced the
timing of the expected stoppage in a statement today, without
saying how many employees would participate.  “The strike will take place in the location where the
responsibility for the current Lufthansa disaster began,” UFO
said earlier on its website. Frankfurt is the airline’s main
hub.  The dispute centers on the pace of raises and whether
separate pay scales apply to some groups of workers as
Lufthansa,  Europe ’s second-biggest airline, implements a 1.5
billion-euro ($1.9 billion) savings program dubbed Score. The
Cologne, Germany-based company, which employs 120,000 people
worldwide, has already announced plans to scrap as many as 4,500
jobs in administration and catering.  “We are preparing for different scenarios and will try to
minimize the effects as much as possible,” Boris Ogursky, a
Lufthansa spokesman in  Frankfurt , said today by phone. “We will
also try to inform passengers as soon as possible about flight
disruptions.”  The company has set up a  website  outlining flight schedules
in the event of a walkout.  Lufthansa fell 0.5 percent to 9.76 euros in Frankfurt.  Union Demands  UFO is seeking a 5 percent pay raise backdated to the start
of 2012. Nicoley Baublies, head of the union, told journalists
Aug. 28 that the airline’s proposal amounted to a 1.5 percent
annual increase and would have eroded wages by 1,300 euros a
month after inflation. Lufthansa countered that it was ready to
offer a raise totaling 3.5 percent over time, and all flight
attendants would have received higher pay.  The union also opposes Lufthansa’s demand that flight
attendants assigned to its expanding Berlin hub work 9 percent
more hours than employees elsewhere for the same wages, and has
objected to its use of temporary workers there. In addition, the
parties were unable to agree on whether to protect employees
after 2013 from being transferred to low-cost divisions under
cheaper pay contracts, according to UFO.  A walkout “will have a massive impact” on earnings,
though the airline needs to stick to its stance to restore
profitability, Peter Oppitzhauser, a Zurich-based analyst at
 Credit Agricole  with an outperform recommendation on Lufthansa
stock, said by phone Aug. 28.  Earnings Risk  Based on analysts’ earnings estimates and effects of
previous strikes, each day of a work stoppage would potentially
cut Lufthansa’s full-year operating profit by 4 percent,
Oppitzhauser said. The airline is forecasting operating profit
in 2012 in a “mid-three-digit” million-euro range, excluding
reorganization costs of as much as 200 million euros.  The union said Aug. 8 that 81 percent of its members voted
in favor of a walkout after earlier talks faltered. UFO will
stage “limited strikes” in the short term and outline plans
for an open-ended work stoppage in coming weeks, Baublies said
Aug. 28.  The contract dispute contrasts with an agreement that the
Ver.di union reached with Lufthansa on Jan. 26 to secure a 3.5
percent raise for 33,000 ground, cargo and technical employees.  About 19,400 flight attendants are affected by the wage
talks, according to UFO, which has declined to specify how many
members it has at the airline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  