-- Ukraine Taps China for Cash to Duck Vote-Damaging Deal Terms
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-08-31T09:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/ukraine-turns-to-china-for-cash-to-duck-vote-damaging-deal-terms.html
Ukraine  is broadening its business
ties with  China  as President  Viktor Yanukovych  sidesteps the
conditions traditional partners such as Russia and the European
Union are demanding to provide loans and investment.  Currency-swap and loan deals agreed since June may reach as
much as $9 billion, raising China’s standing in  Europe ’s biggest
iron-ore and corn exporter as the fastest-growing major global
economy seeks to secure materials and food supplies.  Ukraine wants foreign cash to buoy growth and ease debt
payments as Yanukovych’s ruling party gears up for parliamentary
elections in October. The former Soviet republic has so far
rejected International Monetary Fund terms to unlock a $15.2
billion bailout, as well as conditions to spur European energy-
industry investment and lower Russian fuel-import costs.  “The Chinese have always been willing particularly in the
former Soviet space and also in  Africa  and elsewhere to provide
no-strings-attached funding to advance their economic
interests,” Alexander Kliment, senior analyst at Eurasia Group
in New York, said by phone. “Russia’s intentions are economic
but also first of all political.”  Currency Swap  After similar agreements to boost trade with countries such
as Argentina and Mongolia, China signed a three-year 15 billion-
 yuan  ($2.4 billion) currency-swap accord with Ukraine in June.
Bilateral trade was $8.5 billion in 2011, with China the second-
biggest importer into Ukraine behind Russia in the first half of
2012 with an 8.2 percent share, official data show.  Germany  was
third with 8.1 percent.  In addition, Ukraine said July 2 that it will get a $3
billion Chinese loan for as-yet undetermined agricultural
projects. It may borrow a further $3.7 billion to help build
coal gasification plants that would trim its reliance on
natural-gas imports from Russia, according to Ukraine’s  Energy
and Coal Industry Ministry .  The 15-year agriculture loan has a five-year grace period
and carries a 6 percent interest rate, less than the 9.25
percent coupon on $2 billion of Eurobonds Ukraine sold last
month. It will also improve the balance of payments, central
bank Governor Serhiy Arbuzov said in a July 18 interview.  ‘Key’ Partner  The hryvnia, whose exchange rate the central bank keeps
within a range to the dollar, has declined 1.2 percent in 2012,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The current-account gap may
widen to 6.5 percent of gross domestic product this year from
5.5 percent in 2011, the IMF predicted May 28.  China is becoming a “key” economic partner and can help
Ukraine reduce its dependence on Russian energy supplies,
Foreign Minister Kostyantyn Gryshchenko wrote Aug. 21 in
Ukraine’s Den newspaper.  “The traditional EU-Russia-U.S. triangle has become too
narrow for Ukraine, which must accelerate modernization,” he
wrote. “Despite the unparalleled importance of EU integration,
we’re getting more and more resources thanks to partnerships
with the new world’s economic leaders such as Turkey,  Israel ,
Brazil, India,  Vietnam  and, primarily, China.”  Ukraine will begin to benefit from its deals with the Asian
nation this year, Economy Minister Petro Poroshenko said Aug. 1.  ‘Trustworthy Friends’  China upgraded its relationship with Ukraine to strategic
status when President  Hu Jintao  visited Kiev last June. The two
countries should become “trustworthy friends and reliable
partners,” Deputy Foreign Minister Cheng Guoping said in
November at the opening of the Chinese consulate in the Black
Sea resort of Odessa, the country’s first diplomatic
representation in Ukraine outside the capital.  China’s political, economic and cultural ties with Ukraine
are “in the best shape ever,” Li Jiping, vice president of
 China Development Bank  Corp., the  state bank  in helping Chinese
businesses venturing abroad, said Aug. 7 in Kiev, the Ukrainian
capital. He said his bank “has the capabilities and
willingness” to help boost cooperation in energy,
infrastructure and agriculture.  China has expanded investments and economic ties in other
parts of the former  Soviet Union .  The Asian nation has granted state-controlled Russian
energy companies  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  and OAO Transneft $25 billion in
loans to aid exploration and export-capacity construction in
exchange for a $1.50-per-barrel discount on crude sales for 20
years. It has also pledged $1 billion to a Kremlin-backed
private-equity fund to spur investment in extracting the energy
supplies it needs to grow.  Turkmen Loans  Elsewhere in the region, Turkmen state energy company
Turkmengaz has won more than $8 billion of loans from China
since 2009 in exchange for energy shipments, while Kazakh miner
 Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  agreed to borrow $1.5 billion from China
Development Bank to develop a copper project.  China may bid for Belarus’s state fertilizer company
Belaruskali, which produces 15 percent of the world’s potash,
President  Aleksandr Lukashenko  said last year. The company is
worth as much as $32 billion, according to Lukashenko.  Belarusian companies are considering holding share sales in
China, Interfax cited the former Soviet republic’s ambassador in
Beijing, Viktor Burya, as saying July 10.  China will want economic benefits from its loans to
Ukraine, possibly through access to its natural resources,
according to Alexander Valchyshen, head of research at
Investment Capital Ukraine in Kiev.  More Funds  “China will definitely befriend countries that are global
leaders in agriculture and Ukraine is one of them,” he said by
phone. “If Ukraine’s government shows Chinese money won’t flow
into a hole and will be used to boost  China’s economy , then
those funds will come.”  Still, such conditions may be more palatable than others on
offer as Yanukovych prepares for parliamentary elections on Oct.
28 at which his Party of Regions is neck and neck with jailed
opposition leader  Yulia Tymoshenko ’s, according to a July 27-
Aug. 9 poll by the Kiev-based Razumkov Center for Economic and
Political Studies. The survey of 10,979 has a margin of error of
1 percentage point.  As the ballot nears, Ukraine has rejected EU allegations
that Tymoshenko, a former prime minister, imprisonment for abuse
of office is aimed at keeping her at bay. Her sentence has
torpedoed a planned Association Agreement that would create a
free-trade zone with the 27-member bloc.  Other deals have also veered off course.  Energy, IMF  An EU proposal to help fund a revamp of Ukraine’s gas
pipelines has yet to proceed as demands to unbundle sales and
transmission at state energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy
haven’t been met. Ukraine’s IMF bailout has been frozen since
last March as the government won’t raise household fuel tariffs
to narrow the  budget deficit .  The government has also struggled to find common ground
with Russia, which has sought a stake in Naftogaz’s pipeline
network and Ukraine’s membership in a customs union with Belarus
and Kazakhstan in return for lowering energy price for its
neighbor.  That makes China a more attractive partner for the time
being, according to  Tomas Valasek , foreign-policy and defense
director at the Centre for European Reform in London.  “Ukraine is trying to avoid the conditionality that comes
with EU, IMF or Russian money,” he said by phone. “Europe
wants reform and transparency in the energy sector and Russia
wants control of key industries. That creates political
difficulties before the elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  