-- Iran, Syria Criticized at NAM Summit Intended for Support
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d ,   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2012-08-30T15:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/un-s-ban-rejects-racist-attacks-on-israel-in-tehran-speech-2-.html
Iran , which sought to use a Tehran
summit to win support and repel efforts to isolate it, instead
found its leaders rebuked by United Nations chief Ban Ki-moon
over their stance on  Israel  and its ally  Syria  accused of losing
legitimacy.  “I strongly reject threats by any member states to destroy
another, or outrageous attempts to deny historical facts such as
the Holocaust,” Ban told the 16th summit of the Non-Aligned
Movement today. “Claiming that another UN member state, Israel,
does not have the right to exist, describing it in racist terms,
is not only utterly wrong, but undermines the principles we have
all pledged to uphold.”  Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi, speaking before Ban, told
the gathering that Syria, one of Iran’s closest allies in the
Arab world, was “oppressive” and had “lost its legitimacy.”
The Syrian delegation, which included Foreign Minister Walid Al- Muallem, left the hall following his comments.  Ban’s and Mursi’s remarks may be a sobering call for Iran,
whose officials had anticipated that hosting the summit would
show the world they wouldn’t be marginalized amid efforts by the
U.S. and its allies to isolate the country over its atomic
program. NAM, the world’s biggest bloc of politically non-
aligned nations, is more sympathetic to Iran than to the West.  ‘Blood Libel’  Israel had urged Ban not to attend the meeting. “Today in
Tehran, representatives of 120 nations heard a blood libel
against the state of Israel and remained silent,” Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said in a text message, adding he
would travel to the opening of the UN General Assembly in  New
York  next month to “speak in a clear voice the truth about
Iran’s terrorist regime.”  U.S. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said on
Aug. 16 that Iran was “a strange place and an inappropriate
place” for the NAM meeting.  “The summit is not turning out as the Iranians expected,”
 Meir Javedanfar , a lecturer on Iranian politics at the Herzliya
Interdisciplinary Center in Israel, said by telephone. “They
did not expect Syria to be challenged by Mursi, whose election
they viewed as a strategic victory, and far worse was having Ban
become the first foreign leader to challenge Khamenei’s Israel
statements in his presence in Tehran.”  Building Confidence  In his opening speech to the summit, Iran’s Supreme Leader
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  said “torture and terror is condoned
when carried out by U.S. or Zionist regimes.” The meeting,
which ends tomorrow, is being attended by 24 presidents, eight
prime ministers, 50 foreign ministers and three kings.  Iran doesn’t recognize Israel’s existence, and Khamenei in
a Feb. 3 sermon called the Jewish state a “cancerous tumor”
that must be cut out.  Ban also urged the Iranian government to “take necessary
measures to build international confidence in the exclusively
peaceful nature of its nuclear program.”  The U.S. and the European Union have gone beyond four sets
of UN sanctions intended to stop the Persian Gulf nation’s
nuclear work. EU nations embargoed Iranian oil imports in July.
Prosecutors are targeting institutions worldwide that use the
U.S. financial system to process Iranian transactions.  Time Running Out  Netanyahu told U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  on Aug.
1 that time “is running out” for a peaceful solution to Iran’s
atomic program. Israeli and U.S. leaders have said repeatedly
that “all options are all the table” to contain Iran’s nuclear
ambitions, including a military strike.  Iran has said its atomic work is intended for civilian and
not military purposes. “Those who stockpile nuclear bombs in
their arsenals have no right to style themselves as the standard
bearers of global security,” Khamenei said today.  The Iranian rial, linked to the  U.S. dollar , plunged
earlier this month after the country said it would review its
official  exchange rate . Iranian inflation has quickened while
the economy has come under strain from the sanctions, and oil
exports have dropped. Prices of meat, rice and bread have
spiraled as the rial lost a third of its value against the
dollar on the open market since November.  Mursi’s criticism of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
government dimmed Iran’s expectations that the new Egyptian
administration would move quickly to reverse what had been more
than 30 years of frosty relations between the two nations.  Intervention Needed  The crisis in Syria is on “all our necks, and we must
realize that the bloodshed will not stop without active
intervention” from other countries, Mursi said.  Muallem called the Egyptian leader’s remarks “very bad”
and said in an interview that Syria would respond tomorrow when
it addresses the forum.  Mursi and Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  agreed
today that their foreign ministers would coordinate to find a
solution to the Syrian crisis,  Egypt ’s state-run website Ahram
Gate reported, without saying where it got the information.  “Mursi’s commentary is important in the context of the
Arab world and draws an interesting line at a point where the
Iranians had hoped they might find some common ground with a new
Egyptian government,” said Crispin Hawes, head of the Middle
East program at  London ’s Eurasia Group, a political risk
research company. “It certainly dampens expectations within the
Iranian leadership in terms of what may or may not be possible
with Egypt.”  The Iranians still managed to come away with some gains
from the summit, said Ashraf El Sherif, a political science
professor at the American University in Cairo. Mursi “refrained
from siding with  Saudi Arabia  on the Sunni-Shia axis of
conflict” and he didn’t directly mention Iran’s backing of
Assad or address its nuclear program, El Sherif said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  