-- Union Investors Demand Aetna Disclose Political Donations
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-30T20:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/union-investors-demand-aetna-disclose-political-donations.html
Aetna Inc. (AET)  and 19 other companies
are being urged to disclose their contributions to independent
political organizations by investors including unions and state
pension funds with $922 billion in assets.  The New York State Common Retirement Fund and the UAW
Retiree Medical Benefits Trust are among 25 investors who
demanded to know how Aetna, the third-biggest U.S. health
insurer, is wielding its political influence and giving money to
advocacy groups such as the American Action Network, an
organization opposed to President  Barack Obama ’s policies.  “Recent reports that the company accidentally disclosed
over $7 million in donations to the American Action Network and
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce suggest that the company continues
to obscure the full extent of its spending,” the group wrote in
an Aug. 7 letter to Aetna’s board. The shareholders also
questioned whether the Hartford, Connecticut-based company was
failing to report payments to groups that operate outside of
campaign disclosure laws.  The investors who wrote Aetna include labor unions for
auto, transportation and service workers, state pension funds in
 Illinois  and New York, and religious organizations. The New York
state fund had 1.4 million Aetna  shares  as of July 1 while the
UAW trust had 286,000 shares.  Aetna has received the letter and will respond to investors
directly,  Cynthia Michener , a company spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. The insurer’s shares fell less than 1 percent to $38.80 at
the close in New York.  Company Talks  The investor group declined to name the other 19 companies
it is pressing to publicly disclose political donations, saying
discussions on the issue are under way.  Campaign spending has come under scrutiny after the  Supreme
Court  ruled in the 2010 Citizens United case that for the first
time corporations and unions could spend unlimited amounts on
ads advocating the election or defeat of a candidate. Those
donations can fund political ads against candidates, on-the-
ground operations and other activities that can help decide
elections.  “Aetna’s effort to characterize millions in political
donations it made in 2011 as ‘educational’ activities is a red
flag for shareholders,”  New York  State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli said in a statement.  $7 Million  Aetna gave at least $7 million to such groups in 2011,
according to filings with insurance regulators that Aetna later
modified to omit, according to the group of shareholders. In
2011, it gave $3 million to the American Action Network, and $4
million to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. In 2009, America’s
Health Insurance plans, the Washington trade group, secretly
gave $86 million to the Chamber, Bloomberg reported.  “Regardless of whether the expenditures were for lobbying
or for educational purposes, we still don’t know what the $7
million bought the company or its investors,” UAW Retiree
Medical Benefits Trust Chairman Robert Naftaly said in a
statement accompanying the letter.  The chamber and the American Action Network opposed the
2010 U.S. health-care law that was passed by Democrats without a
single Republican vote. Republicans have made its repeal a
cornerstone of their campaign to unseat Obama in the November
election. The law puts new regulations on insurers, including
limits on what they can charge customers and a requirement they
sell plans to people with pre-existing health conditions.  $305 Million  Organizations not officially affiliated with a political
party or candidate reported spending $305 million in the 2010
elections, or more than four times the amount of money such
entities spent four years earlier, according to the Washington-
based  Center for Responsive Politics , a research group that
tracks Federal Elections Commission filings.  Growing more sharply is a smaller set of groups that keeps
secret the identities of donors who bankroll the ads. These
outside organizations told the FEC they spent $137 million in
the 2010 cycle -- 25 times the 2006 level.  The American Action Network describes itself as a
Washington-based, conservative-leaning advocacy group that
engages in political campaigns. It isn’t required to disclose
its donors.  Aetna’s investors criticized those types of donations and
said the lack of disclosure rules has “opened the door to
virtually unlimited corporate political spending and lobbying
through tax-exempt nonprofit organizations such as trade
associations, chambers of commerce, and so-called ‘social
welfare’ groups.”  Aetna disclosed its 2011 donations to political candidates
on Aug. 24, which the investor group called insufficient and not
timely enough to be informative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  