-- Universal’s EMI Bid Said to Face Vote Paving Way for EU Ruling
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-08-30T16:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/universal-s-emi-bid-said-to-face-vote-paving-way-for-eu-ruling.html
Universal Music Group ’s 1.2 billion-
pound ($1.9 billion) bid for EMI’s recorded music business faces
a key vote by national regulators late next week, paving the way
for a European Union ruling, according to three people familiar
with the situation.  A positive vote on the deal by the national agencies may
allow the European Commission to rule on the purchase as soon as
a Sept. 19 meeting, said two of the people, who couldn’t be
identified because the process isn’t public.  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music  has offered to sell global
rights to EMI labels it earlier pledged to divest to eliminate
regulators’ concerns that the deal could make the world’s
largest record company too powerful in some European markets,
one of the people said.  Universal Music’s revised package of asset sales adds to an
earlier proposal to sell 60 percent of EMI’s European assets,
two people said earlier this month. Extra concessions may make
the iconic London-based label less attractive for Paris-based
Vivendi, saddled with debt and under investor pressure to
improve earnings, as it faces a deadline next month to pay for
EMI.  The extra remedies include the sale of global rights to
Parlophone Records, home to Coldplay and the  Beastie Boys ,
according to one of the people.  The commission said it couldn’t confirm the announcement
date for its decision, which must be taken by commissioners at
one of three sessions before a Sept. 27 deadline, according to a
press officer who declined to be named in line with official
policy.  In-Depth Probes  Representatives of national competition agencies from the
27 EU states must give their opinion on in-depth merger probes
before the commission can deliver a final ruling.  Universal Music officials declined to comment on any offer
or the timing of any decision. EMI Music also declined to
comment.  Citigroup (C)  agreed in November to sell EMI’s recorded music
and publishing business in separate transactions for a combined
$4.1 billion. Universal Music agreed to buy EMI’s recorded
division while a Sony Corp.-led group agreed $2.2 billion for
publishing. Citigroup seized EMI from  Guy Hands ’s private equity
firm, Terra Firma Partners Limited, in February 2011 after it
failed to meet loan terms. Hands bought EMI for 4 billion pounds
in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 