-- UOB Fund Beats Peers With Perpetual Debt: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-08-31T03:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/uob-fund-return-beats-peers-with-perpetual-debt-southeast-asia.html
UOB Asset Management Ltd.’s
 Singapore  dollar debt fund is beating most peers by buying
perpetual bonds and investing 70 percent of its money overseas
as rates on bank deposits and sovereign yields approach zero.  The S$435 million ($347 million) United SGD Fund managed by
the unit of  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  counts seven perpetual
bonds among about 50 securities in its portfolio as of June 30,
including Westpac Banking Corp.’s debt, according to the fund’s
semi-annual report. The manager also bought floating-rate notes
sold by Standard Chartered Plc and Korea First Bank maturing in
2018 and 2034, respectively.  “We want to diversify across countries, sectors and
structures, and perpetual bonds are an added spice to dish,”
said Joyce Tan, co-head of Asian fixed-income investment at UOB
Asset Management, which manages $15.5 billion. “It’s still a
short-term bond fund,” she said in an interview yesterday.  The picks helped the plan return 5.1 percent this year
through Aug. 29, topping 78 percent of rivals including
investment vehicles managed by Fullerton Fund Management Co. and
Nikko Asset Management Ltd., data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That outpaced the city’s 4.9 percent average inflation this year
and compares with the 0.26 percent bid-rate on the six-month
Singapore interbank offered rate and 0.5 percent on one-year
 bank deposits .  Falling bond yields are prompting money managers to buy
riskier debt with no set maturities to boost returns as
inflation erodes the value of fixed-income assets. Singapore
government bonds, rated AAA, yielded 1.35 percent on Aug. 29,
versus 1.83 percent average in 2011 and were as high as 3.47
percent before the onset of 2008 global financial crisis.  Corporate Debt  Investors in Singapore local-currency corporate bonds
earned  3.9 percent  this year, according to HSBC Holdings Plc,
compared with 3.1 percent on local  government securities . U.S.
investment-grade company debt rose 7.9 percent, according to
Bank of America Corp.  Central banks in the U.S.,  Japan  and  Europe  have cut
benchmark policy rates to near zero to spur lending and economic
growth. Two-year  government bonds  yielded 0.22 percent in
Singapore, 0.27 percent in the U.S., 0.1 percent in Japan and
below-zero in  Germany .  Perpetual notes pay more than securities with a fixed
maturity to compensate investors for the risk they won’t be
called. They’re generally senior to equity and subordinated to
other types of debt. Issuers typically retain the right to call
the bonds after a set period.  Top Holdings  Tan, 38, who joined UOB in 2007 after a stint at ING
Investment Management, said her fund started buying perpetual
debt in 2009, and invests in those that are callable within
three years. The fund’s current average duration is two years,
she said.  She invested 35 percent of the fund’s assets in debt sold
by Singapore-based companies as of the end of July, the largest
portion by geography. The holdings include the 8.5 percent bond
due in 2013 sold by Noble Group Ltd., Asia’s biggest commodity
supplier, and the 3.83 percent bond maturing in 2014 issued by
property developer Savu Investments Ltd.  The  United SGD Fund (OUBGPCI)  was ranked the top local-currency bond
fund in 2010 and 2011 by Lipper Inc. based on three- and five-
year performance. Its single largest holding is  Westpac’s (WBC) 
perpetual debt, which may be called at par on Sept. 30, 2013.  The securities were sold with a 5.819 percent coupon in
August 2003, at a spread of 155 basis points more than similar-
maturity  U.S. Treasuries . The bond yielded 5.81 percent
yesterday, while the bank’s 1.85 percent bond due December 2013
yielded 0.97 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Compelling Valuations’  Tan oversees a team of 20 credit analysts and scours the
region for 70 percent of investment denominated in foreign-
currency bonds. Those assets are fully hedged, covering
investors against  currency risk , she said.  “The euro-dollar market offers better risk-adjusted return
in terms of better liquidity, wider choices and compelling
valuations,” Tan said. “The bonds are commonly rated and the
issuers have longer track records.”  The S$859 million Short-term Interest Rate Fund managed by
Fullerton Fund Management earned  4.5 percent  this year, while
the S$233 million Nikko AM Short Term Bond fund run at Nikko
Asset Management returned  3.5 percent , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Both are Singapore dollar funds that
invest in securities due within three years.  Fund managers may be saddling investors with too much risk
by loading money-market and bond funds with securities that may
be hard to sell in times of market volatility, said Benedict
Koh, a finance professor at Lee Kong Chian School of Business at
the  Singapore Management University .  Higher Risk  “Given the low interest-rate environment and poor
prospects of financial markets, many money-market and bond funds
are pressured to earn a decent return,” he said in an e-mailed
reply to questions yesterday. “This pressure to perform may
explain partially their interest in perpetual bonds. They need
to ask whether the risk-return tradeoff is justifiable.”  Koh said perpetual bonds are riskier than fixed-term bonds
or money-market instruments as there is no repayment of capital
unless they called. Volatility to interest-rate swings is “very
high,” especially when rates are projected to rise in the long
run, he said.  Still, the securities are helping money managers to keep
pace with inflation.  Consumer prices  in the city-state increased
by an average 4.9 percent in the first seven months this year,
compared with 5.2 percent in 2011. Inflation averaged 1.7
percent in the previous two years.  Popular Debt  Demand for perpetual bonds is spurring a record pace of
issuances in Singapore. Companies including casino operator
 Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) ,  Mapletree Logistics Trust (MLT)  Ltd. and
 Singapore Post Ltd. (SPOST)  have raised S$5.3 billion this year,
compared with $1.9 billion in all of last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The popularity of this instrument is due to the record-
low and negative yields that investors are exposed to after
adjusting for inflation,” said Grace Lim, a bond strategist in
Singapore at ABN Amro Private Bank. “Bond prices are relatively
resilient and private banks’ clients are also unwilling to
stomach more risk and volatility in the equity market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  