-- Hurricane Kirk Becomes the Fifth of the Atlantic Season
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-30T18:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/hurricane-kirk-becomes-the-fifth-of-the-atlantic-season.html
Kirk became the fifth hurricane of
the 2012 Atlantic season when the system’s top winds grew to 75
miles (120 kilometers) per hour.  Kirk, now 1,500 miles west-southwest of the Azores, won’t
be a threat to the U.S. because it will be steered to the
northeast and out to sea, according to a National Hurricane
Center  advisory  and track forecast at 11 a.m. East Coast time.  “High pressure in the Atlantic, sometimes called the
Bermuda High, has sunk pretty far south and acts as a block,”
said Mark Paquette, a meteorologist with  AccuWeather Inc . in
 State College ,  Pennsylvania .  Eleven named storms, those with winds of at least 39 miles
per hour, have formed in the Atlantic so far this year. A system
becomes a hurricane when sustained winds reach 74 mph.  Hurricane Isaac, now a tropical storm and losing strength
over  Louisiana , and Tropical Storm Debby, which struck  Florida 
in June, have been the two most disruptive systems of the year
for U.S. markets.  Isaac halted 95 percent of U.S. oil production in the Gulf
and 72 percent of natural-gas output as of yesterday, the Bureau
of Safety and Environmental Enforcement said. Six Louisiana
refineries were shut and three were running at reduced rates,
idling 6.7 percent of U.S. capacity, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Debby pushed  New York  natural-gas futures to a one-month
high in June as about 35 percent of the Gulf’s output was shut.  Forecasters are also tracking newly formed  Tropical Storm
Leslie , which is expected to grow into a hurricane later this
week on a path away from the U.S. and the Caribbean islands. The
system is 1,125 miles east of the Windward Islands with top
winds of 40 mph.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  