-- Lusty Art Hunter Bags Picasso, Makes MoMA Modern
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-08-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/lusty-art-hunter-bags-picasso-makes-moma-modern.html
One weekend in 1970, William Rubin
got a call from Picasso’s biographer Roland Penrose. Thieves had
stolen artworks from Penrose’s English country house and were
holding them for ransom.  The loot included a rare 1914 Cubist construction by
Picasso, which Rubin, then chief curator of painting and
sculpture at the  Museum of Modern Art  in  New York , had long
coveted to fill a gap in MoMA’s collection.  Penrose needed $114,000 fast and was willing to make a
deal.  As Rubin (1927-2006) recounts the story in his captivating
memoir, “A Curator’s Quest,” he can’t remember which MoMA
trustee he phoned --  David Rockefeller  or CBS mogul William Paley. But on Monday the money was wired to  England .  The Tate Gallery intervened, eventually landing the Picasso
in  London . But this did not faze the tenacious curator and,
later, director of the world’s greatest collection of  Modern
art .  In 1971, Rubin met with Picasso in the South of  France  and
charmed the Spaniard into giving MoMA, among other masterpieces,
his seminal Cubist sheet-metal relief “Guitar” (1914) -- the
“Les Demoiselles d’Avignon” of sculpture.  MoMA Coups  Picasso’s “Guitar” would have been a crowning acquisition
for any curator. It was merely one of many coups during Rubin’s
two decades at MoMA.  There, from the late 1960s to the late 1980s, he mounted
exhibitions, traded, sold and acquired artworks. He also wooed
and coddled temperamental artists, collectors, donors, gallery
dealers, museum directors, MoMA trustees, politicians and
billionaire philanthropists.  At MoMA, Rubin conceived groundbreaking, beautifully
installed shows devoted to Dada and Surrealism, Cezanne’s late
work, primitivism in 20th-century art, Picasso’s portraiture and
Picasso and Braque’s Cubism.  There was also the legendary 1980 blockbuster, “Picasso: A
Retrospective,” which took over the entire museum.  “A Curator’s Quest” is filled with snapshots and peppered
with the Rockefellers, the Guggenheims, world leaders and movie
stars.  My initial impression of “A Curator’s Quest” was that it
was a name-dropping vanity project.  Artistic Integrity  Yet it is really not about Rubin’s accomplishments. Though
written in the first-person, the book selflessly celebrates art,
artists, MoMA and Alfred H. Barr Jr.’s founding legacy, which
Rubin, with indefatigable integrity, sought to uphold, further
and fine tune.  The visual heart of this lavishly illustrated, thinking-
person’s coffee table book is its nearly 240 full-page color
reproductions chronicling Rubin’s major acquisitions, everyone
from van Gogh to de Kooning.  “A Curator’s Quest” is strongest in the book’s superb
leading essay, where we experience a fanatical curator.  Lustful Hunter  Here we see Rubin as a lustful, vigilant hunter with a keen
eye, a diplomat who brokered art deals with  Russia  during the
 Cold War , and a consummate businessman who instigated the
advantageous though controversial process of taking sealed bids
from dealers when selling works of art.  Interwoven with detailed stories of how, for how much and
from whom Rubin acquired artworks are his personal tastes,
honest opinions and passionate descriptions.  Matisse’s vision, Rubin writes, represents the “sensuous
sublime,” while “Vuillard reveals himself the greatest Intimist
of modern painting.”  It is impossible, of course, to agree with everything Rubin
did. In some ways, especially his embrace of Pop art and
Conceptualism, he is responsible for letting down MoMA’s guard
against Postmodernism, which continues to undermine the very
ideals he and Barr held dear.  But you can’t fault Rubin’s honesty and doggedness. He
never lost sight of the prize.  “A Curator’s Quest: Building the Collection of Painting and
Sculpture of The  Museum of Modern Art , 1967-1988” is published
by Overlook Duckworth (624 pages, $100).  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and Rick
Jaroslovsky on  tech .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 