-- MTV Says ‘Jersey Shore’ Will Be Canceled After This Season
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-08-30T20:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/mtv-says-jersey-shore-will-be-canceled-after-this-season.html
“ Jersey Shore ,” the reality show
that made stars out of Snooki and The Situation, will end its
run after its sixth season,  MTV  said today.  New episodes of the final season will begin Oct. 4,
according to a statement from  Viacom Inc. (VIA) ’s MTV division. The
cable network also will air a retrospective special, “Gym, Tan,
Look Back,” beginning on Sept. 6.  The program documented the seaside carousing of eight
housemates,  two of whom  were from the Garden State. It was the
highest-rated show in the network’s history, MTV said, and
spawned spinoffs including “Geordie Shore” in the U.K. and
“Gandia Shore” in Spain.  It also prompted criticism of its portrayal of Italian-
Americans by groups such as the Order Sons of Italy in America,
according to a  colloquium  on “guido” style held at New York’s
Queens College in 2010.  The show depicted young Italian Americans as crude, drunk
and abusive to women, said Andre’ DiMino, president of the
Italian American One Voice Coalition, a Bloomfield, New Jersey-
based anti-defamation group.  “I haven’t stopped celebrating,” DiMino said in an
interview, referring to the show’s cancellation. “It’s about
time the 15 minutes of fame of these bimbos and buffoons comes
to a close.”  Ratings Drop  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a 49-year-old
Republican, vetoed $420,000 in film tax credits for the program
last year.  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for the governor, declined
to comment today on the announcement.  The show’s audience had been decling in recent years, with
last season’s premiere garnering 5.8 million viewers, compared
with 7.2 million in the prior period, according to data supplied
by Nielsen.  “Yes, sadly it’s true,” Nicole Polizzi, the cast member
known as Snooki said on Twitter today. “This upcoming season of
Jersey Shore will be our last. But it was fricken INSANE. I will
always love my roomies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  