-- Validus to Buy Flagstone in $623 Million Reinsurane Deal
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-30T13:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/validus-holdings-to-acquire-flagstone-in-stock-cash-transaction.html
Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR)  agreed to buy
Flagstone Reinsurance Holdings SA for 19 percent more than
yesterday’s closing price to expand in property-catastrophe
reinsurance.  Flagstone investors will get 0.1935 share of Bermuda-based
Validus and $2 in cash for every one of their shares, according
to a joint statement today from the companies. The transaction
represents an aggregate equity value of $623.2 million, the
companies said. The deal values Luxembourg-based Flagstone at
$8.43 a share, based on Validus’s closing price yesterday.  Mid-sized reinsurers have been combining to diversify their
business mix and enable the companies to take on larger risks
from primary insurers. Validus last year was among bidders for
Transatlantic Holdings Inc., which was purchased by Alleghany
Corp. In 2009, Validus bought IPC Holdings Ltd.  “The price seems very reasonable, possibly enough to
attract other bids,” said  Meyer Shields , an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., in a note to investors. “Validus has proven to
be a successful, albeit somewhat aggressive, acquirer that
should benefit from increasing scale and diversification.”  Validus dropped 1.1 percent to $32.88 at 9:35 a.m. in  New
York  trading. Flagstone surged 18 percent to $8.32.  Increased size benefits reinsurers as they seek to attract
clients, Validus Chief Executive Officer Ed Noonan said last
year. Adding Flagstone will expand Validus’s property-
catastrophe business and specialty reinsurance operation
covering shorter-duration liabilities, the company said.  Size Matters  “Size does matter in terms of your ability to take on risk
and manage risk,” Noonan said in a July 2011 interview. “Size
and scale is an asset to the reinsurance business and it seems
like increasingly more so with the passage of time.”  Banks, private-equity firms and hedge fund managers from
 Steven A. Cohen  to  Daniel Loeb  have formed reinsurers to take
advantage of rising rates after losses from natural disasters.  Record catastrophe losses last year from the earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan  to flooding in  Thailand  helped boost
reinsurance rates. In the U.S., property reinsurance prices have
risen 6.5 percent this year from 2011 as primary insurers
changed how they managed risk after last year’s losses, Guy
Carpenter & Co. said last month.  Donald Marron ’s Lightyear Capital LLC and Trilantic Capital
Partners, which together own about 23 percent of  Flagstone’s
shares (FSR) , have agreed to vote in favor of the transaction,
according to the statement. Allied World Assurance Co. Holdings
AG’s deal to buy Transatlantic last year was scuttled after
opposition from Davis Selected Advisers LP, Transatlantic’s
largest shareholder.  Lehman Brothers  Trilantic is a former private-equity fund of  Lehman
Brothers  Holdings Inc. The investment bank helped take Flagstone
public in 2007 in an offering that valued the reinsurer at about
$1 billion.  Flagstone closed yesterday at $7.06, compared with $13.50
in the 2007 offering. Validus went public the same year, selling
shares for $22 each.  Validus was formed following 2005 hurricanes such as
Katrina with the help of former Marsh & McLennan Cos. CEO
Jeffrey Greenberg, who remains on the reinsurer’s board.
Greenberg is also managing principal of Aquiline Capital
Partners LLC, which is the second-largest holder of Validus.  Validus will assume $250.2 million of Flagstone hybrid
junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures, the buyer
said in a slide show on its website. The deal is expected to be
completed in the fourth quarter, the companies said.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP advised Validus on the transaction, and  Evercore Partners
Inc. (EVR)  and Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP provided advice to
Flagstone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  