-- Validus Targets Growth in Asia After Flagstone Purchase
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-08-30T19:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/validus-targets-growth-in-asia-after-flagstone-purchase.html
Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR) , the reinsurer
that agreed yesterday to buy  Flagstone Reinsurance Holdings SA (FSR) ,
is looking to expand beyond the U.S., its largest market, into
 Asia  and Australia.  Pricing for the coverage that backstops insurers against
the largest risks has increased in nations including Japan after
the 2011 earthquake and tsunami, creating opportunities for
Validus, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ed Noonan said.  “As a result of the losses last year in Asia, which we
largely avoided, markets like Japan and Australia are suddenly
paying higher prices,” Noonan, 54, said yesterday in a phone
interview from  Bermuda , where Validus is based. “We certainly
see attractive opportunities there.”  Validus agreed to buy Flagstone for $623.2 million in cash
and stock, valuing Flagstone at 19 percent more than the Aug. 29
closing price. Validus said its maximum risk from a  Japan 
typhoon would jump by about 47 percent to $355 million after
acquiring Flagstone, assuming a storm so severe that it strikes
once every 250 years, according to a  presentation  posted online.  Risk from an earthquake of similar magnitude in Japan would
rise 37 percent to $282.3 million. The largest risk would remain
U.S. hurricanes at $1.24 billion, an increase of $148.7 million
with the addition of Luxembourg-based Flagstone.  “We’ve seen rates move up this year in the U.S. market and
that continues to be very attractive,” Noonan said.  About 41 percent of Validus’s policy sales came from the
U.S. in the quarter ended June 30, compared with 5.5 percent
from Japan, a company filing showed. Marine and aerospace
coverage, which can span regions, accounted for 26 percent.  Asia Business  Billionaire  Warren Buffett  said in May that the reinsurance
unit of his Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is doing “far more”
business in Asia. Swiss insurer Ace Ltd. is seeking to expand in
Japan after the country’s insurers took on too much risk before
the earthquake and tsunami in March 2011, CEO Evan Greenberg
said in April.  Greenberg’s brother,  Jeff Greenberg , is on the board of
Validus. Their father, Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, built
American International Group Inc. into the world’s biggest
insurer before he was forced out in 2005.  Reinsurance rates rose as much as 60 percent for earthquake
coverage in Japan, and less for other risks, after the 2011
disaster, Swiss Re Ltd. said in June of that year. In the U.S.,
property reinsurance prices have risen 6.5 percent this year
from 2011 as primary insurers changed how they managed risk
after last year’s losses, Guy Carpenter & Co. said last month.  Flagstone Transaction  In the deal announced yesterday, Flagstone investors will
get 0.1935 share of Validus and $2 in cash for every one of
their  shares , for an aggregate equity value of $623.2 million.
The purchase may be complete in the fourth quarter, the
companies said.  “We never mind rolling up our sleeves and fighting for
something that we think is good for Validus,” Noonan said on a
conference call with analysts yesterday. “We don’t anticipate
it, but we never shy away from it.”  Noonan said that Isaac, the hurricane that struck  Louisiana 
on Aug. 28 and caused flooding in  New Orleans , won’t generate a
meaningful amount of claims.  “This is not a big loss to the  insurance industry  and it
won’t be a significant loss to the reinsurance industry,” he
said in the interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  