-- Vatican Withdraws Suit Seeking to Block Stained Image of Pope
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-08-30T19:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/vatican-withdraws-suit-seeking-to-block-stained-image-of-pope.html
The Vatican dropped a lawsuit that
sought to block publication of a German satirical magazine cover
showing  Pope Benedict XVI  with a waist-level stain on his gown.  The Holy See withdrew the legal challenge against  Titanic
Verlag GmbH , according to a statement today on the website of
the Catholic  German Bishops Conference . A hearing scheduled for
tomorrow at a Hamburg court won’t take place, the court said.  Titanic had featured an image of the white-garbed pontiff
with his arms stretched out above a yellow stain as part of a
spoof of a Vatican leaks scandal in its July edition. A caption
read: “Hallelujah at the Vatican -- the leak has been found!”  The pope won an injunction against the publication after
claiming the cover was a violation of his personal rights,
Titanic said on  its website . The staff of the satirical monthly
continued with a protest in Hamburg, the magazine said.  The Bishops Conference added that while Benedict revoked
the challenge, “further legal measures are being examined to
effectively counter attacks on the dignity of the pope and of
the Catholic Church,” according to the statement.  “We view ourselves in the tradition of Giordano Bruno,
Galileo Galilei and Margot Kaessmann, who all found justice in
the end,” Titanic’s editor, Leo Fischer, said in a statement on
the website. The first two references are to the philosopher-
astronomers, who were respectively executed and silenced by the
church in the 17th century. The latter is to the first woman to
head  Germany ’s largest protestant church, who resigned in 2010
after being pulled over by police for drunk driving.  “Whether it took 500 years or five months is meaningless
in the face of eternity,” Fischer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  