-- Vivendi Studies Strategies After Two-Way Split Ruled Out
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-08-30T14:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/vivendi-studies-strategies-after-two-way-split-ruled-out.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ,  Europe ’s biggest media
and telecommunications company, ruled out splitting into its two
main businesses and is studying other ways of reorganizing to
boost the stock price.  Vivendi, which also owns  Universal Music Group  and controls
video-game producer  Activision Blizzard , needs a new structure,
and “don’t think that we won’t do anything,” Chief Financial
Officer Philippe Capron told journalists at Vivendi headquarters
in Paris. “We’ll get things done. The board has deemed it
necessary.” A decision against dividing into two companies
still “leaves room for a whole lot of other scenarios.”  The company’s stock rose the most in two months after
Vivendi posted second-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates and announced cost cuts at its French mobile-phone
unit as part of the five-month-old strategy overhaul. Vivendi
also raised forecasts for  Activision (ATVI)  and the GVT phone and
cable-television business in  Brazil .  Vivendi is “taking a fundamental review of its business
rather than a ‘quick fix,’” Ian Whittaker, an analyst at
Liberum Capital Ltd. who recommends buying the stock and values
the combined businesses at 20 euros per share, wrote in a note.  Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou has taken the lead in overseeing
the reorganization after  Jean-Bernard Levy  was ousted as chief
executive officer at the end of June amid a dispute over
strategy. Interim CEO Jean-Francois Dubos said on the call today
that Vivendi will “go at our own speed” and will announce
“any movement when appropriate.”  ‘Quality Rating’  A “straight breakup” into media and telecommunications
businesses “would lead to great difficulties in proportioning
the debt,” Capron said today on a conference call. “We do not
see the possibility of retaining a quality rating” on the
independent entities. At the same time, “Nothing is taboo and
we are reviewing all options, provided we can also preserve
value for bondholders.”  Vivendi  rose  as much as 4.9 percent to 15.85 euros, the
biggest intraday jump since Levy’s departure as CEO on June 28,
and was trading up 2.8 percent at 4:56 p.m. in Paris. The stock
has gained 16 percent since the CEO’s ouster, valuing the
company at 20.2 billion euros ($25.3 billion).  Net Debt  The company’s long-term debt is  rated  Baa2 at Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB at both Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings, the second-lowest investment grade at all three credit-
reporting companies. Net debt totaled 14.1 billion euros at end
of June, Vivendi said today.  “The main focus of investors’ attention remains on value
that could be achieved from a breakup of the conglomerate
structure and the sum of its parts,” Stephen Snaith, an analyst
at  Allianz SE (ALV) , said today in an e-mail. Executives “continue to
give indications that work on this is on-going and that
announcements will happen in the future, which should be taken
positively.”  Under Fourtou, Vivendi has hired Rothschild and Deutsche
Bank AG to study strategic options for GVT, two people familiar
with the matter said this month. Vivendi acquired GVT for $4.18
billion in 2009 after trumping a bid from  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA. (TEF)   SFR’s Role  Fourtou, who has been in his post since 2002, is looking at
changing directions 14 months after Vivendi spent 7.95 billion
euros to buy out  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s share in their SFR
venture. SFR is  France ’s second-largest mobile-phone company,
after  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange brand, and it’s the largest
contributor to Vivendi’s profit.  The chairman is considering drawing focus away from
Vivendi’s telecommunications businesses, which he believes
require too much investment to be successful and lack scale,
people familiar with the matter have said.  Fourtou said last month in an interview that he’s seeking a
buyer for Vivendi’s stake in Activision. Vivendi may sell the
stake to the  Santa Monica , California-based game producer after
finding little interest from potential buyers, people familiar
with the matter have said.  Second-quarter net income adjusted for one-time gains and
costs was 706 million euros, beating the 652 million-euro
average  estimate  of eight analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
fell 1.5 percent to 6.97 billion euros, matching estimates.  Keeping Forecast  Vivendi reiterated its full-year target for adjusted net
income of more than 2.5 billion euros. It boosted a forecast for
earnings before interest, taxes and amortization at Activision
by 6.7 percent to 800 million euros. Vivendi also increased
revenue-growth and profit-margin projections at GVT.  SFR’s Ebita in the quarter slumped 18 percent from a year
earlier to 552 million euros. Vivendi today said it’s targeting
annual operating-cost savings of about 500 million euros by the
end of 2014 at the unit.  Iliad SA (ILD) , France’s fourth mobile carrier, grabbed 4 percent
of the country’s wireless market in its first 80 days of
business with discounted packages starting at 2 euros a month.
Local third-ranked competitor  Bouygues SA (EN)  cut its profit target
this week, citing increased competition. Iliad is scheduled to
report earnings tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  