-- Water Should Be More Valued to Reflect Worth, Nestle Chief Says
-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2012-08-30T11:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/water-should-be-more-valued-to-reflect-worth-nestle-chief-says.html
Water should be more highly valued
to reflect its worth and reduce its waste, said  Paul Bulcke ,
chief executive officer at  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company.  “If something isn’t given a value, people tend to waste
it,” Bulcke said at a World Water Week seminar in  Stockholm .
“Water is our most useful resource but those using it often
don’t even cover the costs of its infrastructure.”  Water withdrawals have tripled over the past half-century
as the population grew and demand increased, with agriculture
accounting for about 70 percent of global water use and industry
20 percent, according to United Nations data.  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  on Aug. 28 won an honorary award at the
Stockholm event for efforts by the food and beverage company to
conserve billions of gallons of water in its operations through
new water management and farm irrigation methods including
water-saving equipment, recycling and re-use.  The annual water event, organized by the Stockholm
International Water Institute, started in 1991 and this year is
focusing on how to curb  food waste  and use water more
efficiently.  “Fresh water is being massively overused at nature’s
expense but it seems only a global crisis will make us realize
the importance of the issue,” Bulcke said, according to
Nestle’s website.  “What is environmentally unsustainable today will become
socially unsustainable in the future” should water scarcity
issues raise tensions over food supply and demand, he said.  Nestle, based in Vevey, Switzerland, owns water brands
including Perrier, Vittel and the largest bottled-water label,
Pure Life.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in Zurich at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  