-- Weakening Tropical Storm Isaac Eases Gulf Energy Threat
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-08-30T11:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/weakening-tropical-storm-isaac-eases-gulf-energy-threat.html
Tropical Storm Isaac’s threat to
offshore energy production in the  Gulf of Mexico  eased as the
weather system weakened while still dumping rain and producing
storm surges over  Louisiana . Forecasters expect it to become a
tropical depression later today.  Crude prices fell for a second day in  New York  after
Isaac’s landfall reduced concern that the storm would damage
platforms and rigs in the Gulf. Isaac has halted 95 percent of
U.S. oil production in the Gulf and 72 percent of natural-gas
output, the  Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement  said.
Six Louisiana refineries were shut, idling at least 6.7 percent
of national capacity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Even though Isaac is no longer a hurricane, life-
threatening hazards from  storm surge , inland flooding and
tornadoes are still occurring,” the National Hurricane Center
said early today.  Isaac, which pounding the  New Orleans  area on the seventh
anniversary of Hurricane Katrina, was about 125 miles (201
kilometers) northwest of Louisiana’s largest city as of 7 a.m.
local tome with top winds of 45 miles per hour, down from 80 mph
at landfall, the NHC said  in an advisory . The system was moving
northwest at 8 mph.  The center of the storm is forecast to continue to move
over Louisiana today, pass through Arkansas tomorrow before
continuing inland to southern Missouri later tomorrow.  Crude for October delivery declined 0.3 cents to $95.46 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  as of 7:52 a.m.
before the floor opened.  Gulf Energy  The Gulf region is home to 23 percent of U.S. oil output, 7
percent of natural gas and 44 percent of refining capacity.  “In the oil-rig areas, the conditions there aren’t going
to let up until Friday,” said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of
 Weather Underground  in Ann Arbor,  Michigan . “The winds over the
water are going to be stronger than over the land. They are just
going to have to wait. It’s going to be a patience game with
this storm.”  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  declared force majeure on the Manta Ray and
Garden Banks offshore gas pipeline systems because of Isaac,
according to a notice on the company’s website.  The  Louisiana Offshore Oil Port  suspended all operations
from its offshore terminal and onshore storage, Barb Hestermann,
a spokeswoman for the company, said in a message posted on its
website. The port’s main Clovelly terminal near Galliano,
Louisiana, lost power and was preparing backup generators to
allow to partial operations once storm conditions improve, the
company said.  Refinery Impact  Refiners in the area will probably sustain little damage
from the storm, said  Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist
at Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn,  Pennsylvania .  “It’s likely that the remainder of the energy-production
infrastructure across the northern Gulf will have little in the
way of damage from Isaac and should be up and running by
Friday,” Rouiller said.  Isaac unleashed  a storm surge  into southern Louisiana and
Mississippi that is raising sea levels to 10 feet (3 meters)
above normal. The rising water pushed over the top of a levee in
Plaquemines Parish.  Seven to 14  inches of rain may fall, and some areas may
receive 25 inches, the hurricane center said.  “It’s moving very slowly, it’s just drifting about the
south Louisiana coastline, so they’re just going to get pounded
with wind and rain for quite some time now,” said Dan
Pydynowski, a meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in  State
College , Pennsylvania.  Threat Lingers  Pydynowski said that since the storm is lingering near the
coast, it will take some time to weaken. The swampy land of
southern Louisiana is full of warm water that can fuel the
system, he said.  All hurricane warnings and watches were dropped when Isaac
was downgraded. A tropical storm warning is in effect from
Cameron, Louisiana, to the Mississippi-Alabama border.  Hurricane Katrina  stuck New Orleans and the Gulf Coast on
Aug. 29, 2005,  swamping the city’s levees  and killing more than
1,800 people.  Tropical Storm Kirk, the 11th named Atlantic weather system
this year, was 1,065 miles northeast of the northern Leeward
Islands and no threat to land, the hurricane center said in a
separate advisory. It had maximum sustained winds of 65 mph and
is moving northwest at 10 mph. Kirk could become a hurricane
later today or tomorrow, the center said.  Forecasters are also tracking an area of low pressure west
of the Cape Verde islands, in the eastern Atlantic Ocean, that
has a 90 percent chance of becoming a tropical system within two
days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  