-- Wen Tells Merkel Spain, Italy, Greece Need More Reforms
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-30T14:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/wen-tells-merkel-spain-italy-greece-need-more-reforms.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  told his
German counterpart that  Spain ,  Italy  and  Greece  must take steps
to prevent a worsening of the euro region’s sovereign-debt
crisis as he pledged to consider further European bond
purchases.  “The main worries are two-fold: First is whether Greece
will leave the euro zone,” Wen said after meeting Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  in Beijing, a pool report showed. “The second is
whether Italy and Spain will take comprehensive rescue measures.
Resolving these two problems rests with whether Greece, Spain,
Italy and other countries have the determination for reform.”  With decisions affecting the euro’s future pending in the
coming two weeks from European Central Bank policy makers,
German judges and Dutch voters, Wen said that “ China  is
willing, on condition of fully evaluating the risks, to continue
to invest in the euro zone sovereign  debt market .” Europe’s
crisis has eroded demand in China’s second-largest export
destination, contributing to a slowdown in the world’s No. 2
economy.  “Wen produced a few euro-positive headlines,”  Chris Walker , a UBS AG currency analyst in  London , wrote in a note to
clients. “We note it was not clear whether this implied any net
increase in existing exposures.”  The euro was up 0.2 percent at $1.2551 as of 1:30 p.m. in
London. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was down 0.3 percent, heading
for a third day of declines.  Hu Jintao  Meeting Merkel today, Chinese President  Hu Jintao  said his
nation supports Europe’s efforts to overcome the debt crisis and
is ready to maintain “communication and coordination” to
promote recovery and growth in the world economy.  Wen said he was more confident about the euro area after
meeting today with Merkel. Their meeting coincided with the
signing of a $3.5 billion agreement for the leasing arm of
Beijing-based  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  to buy
50 Airbus SAS A320 aircraft, one of more than 10 accords signed
today, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  “China definitely has more leverage here,” Fredrik Erixon, head of the Brussels-based European Centre for
International Political Economy, said in a telephone interview.
“Europe is really, really keen on getting more  market access  to
China. European companies want to shift sales to growth
markets.”  Increased Confidence  “After I heard her views, it increased my confidence,”
Wen said at the Great Hall of the People. “But I must honestly
say, the implementation of these measures won’t be completely
smooth.” Wen said he was “worried” about the  European debt
crisis .  The European Union is China’s biggest export market after
the U.S., and shipments are plunging, exacerbating the slowdown
in China’s own economic growth. China’s exports to the EU fell
16.2 percent in July from a year earlier, with sales to Italy
falling 35.8 percent, according to Chinese customs figures.  In addition to winning contracts for German companies,
Merkel is trying to convince Wen and other Chinese leaders that
the euro region is a good place to invest. She also met with
Vice President  Xi Jinping  today.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation currency bloc fell
0.2 percent from the first quarter, the EU’s statistics office
said Aug. 14.  The euro has depreciated 3.2 percent against the dollar
this year after Spain and Cyprus were both forced to ask for
external aid in June, joining Greece, Ireland and Portugal. The
European currency traded at $1.2551 at 11:02 a.m. in Brussels,
up 0.2 percent on the day.  Merkel said “it’s very, very important that we regain
confidence in all the countries” of the euro region and thanked
China for maintaining confidence in the joint currency. Merkel
said she told Wen that euro-area nations are overhauling their
economies “and that there is an absolute political will in the
euro zone to make the euro a stable currency again.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Penny Peng in Beijing at 
 ppeng18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  