-- Where the Buffalo Roamed, a Strange and Morbid Economy
-- B y   T i m   H e f f e r n a n
-- 2012-08-30T16:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/where-the-buffalo-roamed-a-strange-and-morbid-economy.html
(Corrects year of railway’s completion in first paragraph
and number of buffalo in 14th paragraph.)  The completion of the first
transcontinental railway in 1869 divided the Great Plains in
two. Some of its earliest passengers were buffalo hunters, and
as they spread out from the railroad’s embankments, the vast
buffalo herds were divided, as well.  It marked the beginning of their end. By the tens, perhaps
even the hundreds, of millions, the animals were killed for
their skins, which were then easily transported to the coasts
for the fashionable classes to buy. One man boasted of taking
down 1,500 buffalo in a week -- 250 in a single day.  The first hunters got as much as $10 per skin. As more
sought to cash in, the price plummeted to $1. Still, very good
money for the era.  On the other hand, the buffalo skinners, those who followed
the hunters and did the dirty work, were paid only a small
percentage, plus all the buffalo meat they cared to eat. They
went for the tenderloins and tongues and left the rest to rot.
Vultures, like the hunters, enjoyed a few bounty years.  Then the herds were gone. Homesteaders arrived to a
landscape white with buffalo skeletons. These would become, in
many cases, their first harvest. “The prairies of the Northwest
are covered with the bleached bones of the countless dead,” a
 New York Times (NYT)  correspondent wrote in December 1884, “and here
commerce steps in again to ask for something else: the very last
remnant there is left of an annihilated race.”  Skulls and Bones  Animal bones were useful things in the 19th century. Dried
and charred, they produced a substance called bone black. When
coarsely crushed, it could filter impurities out of sugar-cane
juice, leaving a clear liquid that evaporated to produce pure
white sugar -- a lucrative industry. Bone black also made a
useful pigment for paints, dyes and cosmetics, and acted as a
dry lubricant for iron and steel forgings.  Fresh bones could be boiled to extract gelatin for food,
glues and photographic emulsions. Their leached husks, rich in
phosphorous, were one of the first industrial fertilizers.  And so the homesteaders gathered the buffalo bones. It was
easy work: Children could do it. Carted to town, a ton of bones
fetched a few dollars. Sent to rendering plants and  furnaces  in
the big industrial cities, that same ton was worth between $18
and $27. Boiled, charred, crushed or powdered, it was worth as
much as $60.  A former bone trader named M.I. McCreight calculated that
at least $40 million worth of bones was purchased by the
processing plants in all -- about $1 billion in today’s dollars.
“A rather sizable pay-roll,” he noted dryly in his memoir, “to
have escaped the notice of history writers.”  The gathering of bones traced the routes of the railroads.
Swaths of land 40 miles to each side of the tracks would be
picked bare; newspaper reports from the 1870s, aiming to amuse
their citified readers, spun corn-pone tales of farmers bringing
in “bumper crops.”  By the 1880s, however, a few reporters were expressing
nervous awe at the scale of the cleansing, and even despair for
what had been lost. In 1891, not 25 years after the slaughter
began, the Chicago Daily Tribune ran a dispatch titled “Relics
of the Buffalo.” The relics were the animals’ empty pathways and
dust wallows, worn into the surface of the Manitoba plains over
countless years. The bones, let alone the living creatures, were
long gone.  In reports from the era, the full cost of the buffalo-bone
trade is usually revealed by the things not said. No note of
lament or irony can be found in a 1907 Washington Post story
describing the peculiar nature of Seneca Street in Topeka,
 Kansas . In the 1880s, it was “paved with buffalo skulls” thrown
aside by the bone traders -- big but hollow, they weren’t worth
the space they took up in boxcars. “In light of subsequent
values this was the most expensive pavement on earth,” the
writer observed, for by 1907 buffalo remains had become
collectors’ items, and “a pair of buffalo horns and the head of
an animal of that breed will easily bring $400.”  Living On  By 1915, there was a national outcry to save the last
buffalo, a pitiful group of fewer than 100 living in Yellowstone
National Park. Buffalo at last received legal protection, and
the rescue of the species became one of the earliest and
happiest victories of the conservation movement.  Today, herds of the animals again roam the Plains -- media
mogul  Ted Turner  owns about 55,000 of them -- and although they
do so in fenced enclosures, and the herds are shadows of the
originals, the scales of both are sufficiently grand to give the
illusion of wilderness.  But the slaughtered buffalo also live on, in a ghostly and
haunting form. Phosphorous doesn’t travel well through soil. And
so while some fertilizers can simply be watered in, bone meal --
still used, but now mostly a byproduct of hog butchery -- has to
be tilled into the earth. The buffalo bones, shipped east to be
ground into powder, often went back west to enrich the vast
farmlands that replaced the prairie. They are still there,
slowly dissolving, a little bit of them coming up with the crops
each spring -- a little bit of them going down with every bite.  (Tim Heffernan writes about heavy industry and the natural
world for the Atlantic and other magazines. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the author of this post:
Tim Heffernan at  twheffernan@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  