-- Yale President Richard Levin to Step Down in 2013
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-08-30T20:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/yale-president-richard-levin-to-step-down-in-2013.html
Yale University  President Richard C. Levin, the longest-serving leader in the  Ivy League , said he
will retire at the end of the current academic year.  An economist,  Levin  has been a member of Yale’s faculty
since he received his Ph.D. at the  New Haven ,  Connecticut ,
university in 1974. Levin, 65, became president in 1993.  Levin helped make Yale’s endowment -- valued at $19.4
billion in June 2011 -- the second-largest in higher education,
behind  Harvard University .  After completing a fundraising campaign, beginning
construction on a new business school building, establishing a
campus in Singapore and other endeavors, the timing was a
“natural juncture,” Levin said in an interview today.
Decisions about the next slate of buildings, at a cost of about
$1 billion, should made by the next president, he said.  “We have a lot of big projects on the docket, a number of
projects that were postponed because of the market crash: two
new residential colleges, a new biology building, a science
teaching facility, a new home for the drama school,” Levin
said. “If we’re going to do these things, these ought to be
decisions of a president who is able to be around for at least
seven or eight years thereafter, to go out and raise the money
to fund these projects.”  During his tenure, Levin has looked abroad and in the
nearby towns of West Haven and Orange to bolster Yale’s
standing.  Writing Book  “It is a source of great satisfaction to leave Yale in
much stronger condition -- academically, physically, and
financially -- than it was when I began in 1993,” Levin said in
a statement today. “Our faculty is stronger than ever, and our
deans and directors all have clear and ambitious agendas that
will keep the University moving forward.”  Levin will take a sabbatical next year, and plans to write
a book of reflections on higher education and economic policy,
he said in the  statement .  Yale will relay more information in the near future about
its search for the next president, Edward P. Bass, senior fellow
for the Yale Corp., the school’s governing body, said in a
statement.  Levin also focused his efforts on Yale’s international
presence. The school announced in March 2011 it would open a
liberal arts college in Singapore with the  National University 
of Singapore. The first class is expected to arrive in 2013.  Transformational Leader  Indra Nooyi, a Yale trustee and chief executive officer of
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , said Levin has been transformational in
envisioning how a university can be a leading citizen at home
and abroad.  “His example has been a guide for how universities around
the world can have a much greater impact,” Nooyi said in a
statement.  A native of  San Francisco , Levin earned an undergraduate
degree at  Stanford University  near Palo Alto,  California . Before
he became Yale’s president, his economics research focused on
industrial organization, including studies of the deregulation
of railroads, the patent system and antitrust and the
competitiveness of American manufacturing. Levin is currently a
director at  American Express Co. (AXP)   In 2007, Levin announced Yale’s purchase of a 136-acre
health-care complex in West Haven formerly owned by  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,
with research space, office buildings, warehouses and other
facilities.  Leadership Mentor  Yale raised a record $3.89 billion in a five-year campaign
that ended in June 2011. Ten donors gave gifts of $50 million or
more, including a $100 million gift to make the Yale School of
Music tuition free.  “Rick Levin has been both friend and mentor to me and
every other colleague at the helm of colleges and universities,
across the country and around the globe,” Harvard President
Drew Faust said in an e-mailed statement. “Throughout his
tenure at Yale he has been a tireless spokesperson for the
values of scholarship, integrity, and inclusion -- values that
have bettered our institutions and our sector. I will miss
him.”  Yale has never been in better shape than it is now, from
its physical campus to the addition of new faculty and programs,
said  Anthony Kronman , who served as dean of the law school for
10 years. He teaches there and in  Directed Studies, 
interdisciplinary courses for freshmen, with Levin’s wife,  Jane.   Kronman said Yale’s next president faces challenges such as
strengthening the new campus in  Singapore  and the business
school.  The School Of Management  opened in 1976.  Business School  “SOM is not as old as business schools at Harvard or
 Chicago , and it has a distinctive character of its own,”
Kronman said. “I know that it has been very important to Rick
that Yale have a business school of world-class caliber, equal
in stature and standing to its schools of medicine and
architecture and law and so on.”  Now with Yale looking for a new leader, the Ivy League,
eight elite universities in the northeastern U.S., is undergoing
a changing of the guard.  A new president, economist Christina Hull Paxson, took the
reins at  Brown University  in Providence, Rhode Island, on July
1. She replaced  Ruth Simmons , who led the school for more than a
decade.  Dartmouth College is also looking for a new leader after
Jim Yong Kim left the Hanover, New Hampshire school on July 1 to
run the  World Bank .  Yale Culture  Levin’s tenure was unusually long for a school of Yale’s
stature, and it thrived on his stability, said  Raymond D.
Cotton , an attorney who works with university presidents and
boards of trustees on issues of compensation, leadership and
governance.  His successor will need to understand the university’s
culture.  “I would imagine that internal candidates will have a
better chance in this particular search than most,” Cotton
said. “There’s a depth of talent at Yale.”  Levin has shaped university leadership as a groomer of
presidents at elite research universities.  More than a half-dozen of Yale’s former provosts under
Levin have gone on to positions at the  University of Oxford  and
University of Cambridge in the U.K.,  Duke University  in Durham,
North Carolina, and the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  