-- Yale Was Great but Summer Tours Were a Waste
-- B y   N a o m i   S c h a e f e r   R i l e y
-- 2012-08-30T22:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/yale-was-great-but-summer-tours-were-a-waste.html
During my freshman year at
 Middlebury  College, I remember a classmate complaining to me as
we walked across campus on a particularly bitter January
morning: “I knew it was going to be cold. I just didn’t know it
was going to be this cold.”  She was from  Southern California , and the one visit she
made to the wilds of  Vermont  before starting college was in mid-
July after her junior year of high school.  For parents who have just returned from schlepping junior
all over the country in an effort to narrow down the list of
colleges, I have to ask, “What were you thinking?” Summer isn’t
the time to visit schools, and not just because you won’t get a
good sense of  New England  winters. Colleges over the summer are
just a bunch of buildings, some lovely landscaping and a few
peppy student ambassadors -- walking backward, of course.  Why not go visit colleges when classes are actually in
session? Admittedly, students spend fewer and fewer hours in
class or engaged in academic pursuits (about 25 hours a week,
according to the now famous study, “ Academically Adrift ”). But
wouldn’t it be good to know something about the way classes are
taught anyway?  Good teaching is rarely recognized and almost never
rewarded in a way that counts. According to a  2005 study  in the
Journal of Higher Education, “teaching an additional hour
remained a negative factor in pay and publishing an extra
article a positive factor in pay.”  That was true for large
state schools, research universities and small liberal-arts
colleges.  Teaching Devalued  If professors do enough research and publish enough books
and articles, they will  move up  the academic ladder, even if
they are complete duds in front of a classroom. An administrator
at a large Midwestern university told me that professors used to
offer a loose-leaf of publications for consideration by a tenure
committee 20 years ago. Today, they offer a box full of them.  Students, meanwhile, complain about professors who use the
same notes for 20 years, professors who never look up from those
notes, and whose grading of papers consists of “great job!” or
“needs work.” Teaching is rarely supervised by grownups. A
Harvard professor told me that in her two decades teaching
there, not a single colleague or administrator had ever set foot
in her class.  How do you find out where your son or daughter can be
taught well? First, don’t rely on the U.S. News and World Report
“Best Colleges”  rankings . The formula rewards factors that have
nothing to do with teaching. They include the number of faculty
members who have won important awards, such as the  Nobel Prize 
or the Fields Medal, and the school’s overall reputation in the
eyes of its peers.  U.S. News sends administrators a survey asking about
schools in the same general category as their own. Some have
given poor grades to other institutions to boost their own
rankings. A couple of years ago, the provost at the  University
of Wisconsin  at Madison, for instance,  determined  that 260 of
its 262 peer institutions were of merely “adequate” quality.  Most base their conclusions on the level of prestige an
institution has achieved. In this regard, provosts and
presidents at other schools may have some sense of the level of
publication of faculty members at other institutions. But they
would have no way of knowing about the quality of the teaching.  There is also evidence that schools have fudged data about
the percentage of  adjuncts teaching  at particular institutions.
There is nothing inherently wrong with an adjunct and many are
good teachers. But at some schools the adjuncts don’t have the
time or inclination to engage with students. They can earn less
than the minimum wage for their hours worked, because they are
paid by the course. They don’t have offices, and few offer
office hours. They have every incentive to inflate grades since
the performance of many of these untenured instructors is
evaluated only by students.  Observe Classes  Assuming students can visit a school when it’s in session,
what should they look for? First, they might read the course
catalog and then sit in on some classes that they might actually
take during freshman year. The admissions office may try to
impress visitors with an advanced seminar in constitutional law,
taught by a senior professor and  capped at  13 students. There is
some small chance you will be able to take this class four years
from now. But you may first have to sit through an introduction-
to-political-science class with 600 students. Why not visit that
one instead?  Then, look at who is at the front of the class. Professors
often dislike teaching introductory courses. So they may be
assigned to someone with little experience teaching, let alone
in holding the attention of hundreds of young people in a large
lecture hall. Schools that value teaching will make senior
professors teach freshman. But even if they do, the teachers’
assistants handle more of the hands-on grading. In an age when
you can watch lectures by great professors online, the
interactive part of teaching -- grading and answering questions
-- becomes more valuable.  Maybe your teenager is someone who can learn well in a
large class. If your child is barely staying awake for his or
her 50-minute visit, however, it doesn’t bode well for freshman
year. Whatever the average class size and the quality of the
professors, it is also useful to find out how hard it is to get
into the courses a student wants. U.S. News rewards schools for
having a higher number of smaller classes. But if schools get
more credit for keeping the size at 19 and you are the 20th
student who wants to get in, you are out of luck. Increasingly
students are complaining that they can’t even get into the
classes they need to graduate on time. Are you prepared to pay
another semester or year of tuition if that happens to you?  Families who tour schools over the summer can often only
ask their guides about these issues. If you go when school is in
session, you can ask anyone lounging on the quad. It won’t be a
scientific survey, yet it might be a more honest one. College
tuition is probably the biggest investment a family will make
outside of a mortgage. Doing some real homework will pay off.  (Naomi Schaefer Riley is the author of “The Faculty Lounges
and Other Reasons Why You Won’t Get the College Education You
Paid For.” The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why the  U.S. should back
Egypt’s peace plan  for  Syria ; Stephen L. Carter on why he is
 still an NFL fan ; William Pesek on  China’s slowing economy ;
 Amity Shlaes  on how Romney can cut the  mortgage-interest
deduction .  To contact the writer of this article:
Naomi Schaefer Riley at www.naomiriley.com  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  