-- Yingli Plunges as Earnings Concerns Sink ADRs: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-08-30T20:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/yingli-plunges-as-earnings-concerns-sink-adrs-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks traded in New York
fell to the lowest level in four weeks, led by  Yingli Green
Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , on concern the nation’s economic slowdown is
cutting into corporate earnings.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. retreated 0.9 percent to 88.10 at
the close of trading, the lowest level since Aug. 3. Yingli, the
world’s sixth-largest silicon-based solar module maker, sank the
most in four weeks after ThinkEquity LLC recommended investors
sell the stock.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  slid to the lowest
since being listed in 2005 while  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA) 
dropped for a fourth day after first-half profit fell.  China’s economy , the world’s second-largest, expanded 7.6
percent in the April-June period, the slowest pace in six
quarters. Forty-nine companies in the Bloomberg gauge releasing
 earnings  since mid-July have  missed  analysts’ estimates by an
average 8.8 percent, compared with 3 percent above projections a
year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yingli
 reported  a fourth quarter of losses, citing overcapacity and
weaker demand from Europe as the region’s debt crisis lingers.  “Company earnings are not coming in great and they are
somewhat disappointing,” Arjun Jayaraman, who manages $400
million in emerging-market equities at Causeway Capital
Management, said in a phone interview from Los Angeles. “That
shows the impact of China’s slowdown. It will take longer for
corporate earnings to recover than it takes the economy to
rebound.”  The Bloomberg China-US Index has gained 1.5 percent in
August, the biggest monthly gain since February. The measure has
dropped 2.2 percent this year.  ‘No Clear Path’  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slid 1.6 percent to a one-
month low of $32.95. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of the
biggest U.S. shares slumped 0.8 percent to 1,399.48, as reports
from Europe, Japan and  South Korea  intensified concern the
global economy is cooling down.  Yingli has “no clear path to profitability,” Colin Rusch,
an analyst at ThinkEquity said in a report yesterday. He cut his
rating to sell from hold. Shares of the Hebei, China-based solar
manufacturer sank 10 percent, the most since July 31, to $1.66.
Yingli, which cut its forecast for shipments on Aug. 29,
“requires a substantial amount of cash to fund normal
operations.”  Suntech declined 8.2 percent to 90 cents and  Trina Solar
Ltd. (TSL) , the world’s fourth-largest panel maker, lost 6.3 percent
to $4.45.  Airlines  “Solar manufacturers worldwide are operating with
production capacity that exceeds demand by at least two to
one,” said  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates in Houston, said in an interview today. “It’s very
hard for these companies to remain profitable under those
conditions.”  China Eastern  declined 1.2 percent to $15.11 after the
Shanghai-based carrier said first-half profit tumbled 65 percent
due to higher fuel costs and currency losses. The airline joined
 China Southern Airlines Co. (1055)  and Air China Ltd. in reporting
lower profit after average fuel prices rose 10 percent and
traffic growth cooled.  China Cosco Holdings Co. (601919) , the world’s largest operator of
dry-bulk ships, and China Shipping Container, the country’s
second-largest carrier of sea-cargo boxes, dropped to their
lowest levels since 2007 after both reported first-half losses
larger than a year earlier.  ‘Big Stimulus Program’  China cut  interest rates  in June and July, the first
reductions since 2008, and is encouraging local governments to
boost investment as economists forecast 2012 growth will be the
slowest in 13 years.  “We’re seeing the result now of a lack of any major
stimulus from the Chinese government in the first half of the
year,” Jingyi Li, an analyst at Harding Loevner LP, whose $19
billion in assets under management includes Chinese equities,
said in a phone interview yesterday from Bridgewater, New
Jersey. “Expectations from equity investors are very cautious
because everyone understands that the central government is
unlikely to step in here with a big stimulus program.”  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU)  the best performing stock in
August on the  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN) , fell 2.4 percent
to $21.46 to pare its advance for the month to 46 percent. Qihoo
last week forecast third quarter sales that beat analysts’
estimates and started its own search engine on Aug. 16.  ‘Lose Traffic Share’  Qihoo’s search engine provides a “reasonably good
experience, especially for popular keywords,” Alan Hellawell,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in  Hong Kong , wrote in a report
dated Aug. 29.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of China’s largest online
search engine, could “lose traffic share to competitors in the
longterm,” he wrote.  Baidu fell 1 percent to $112.01, extending its decline for
the month to 7.1 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which has dropped 6.7 percent
this year, was little changed yesterday at 2,052.59. The index
is at the lowest level since February 2009. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong lost
1.4 percent to 9,340.86.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  