-- Hypermarcas Turns Up Bovespa by Making People Beautiful
-- B y   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f
-- 2012-08-30T14:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/hypermarcas-turns-up-bovespa-by-making-people-beautiful.html
Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3) , the Brazilian maker
of the generic forms of Valium and Claritin, is handing
investors the second-best return on the Bovespa this year after
revamping its strategy to focus on drugs and beauty products.  Hypermarcas rallied 58 percent this year before today, the
 biggest gain  on the benchmark Bovespa index after utility Cia.
de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo. That follows a 62
percent plunge in 2011, when Hypermarcas was the fourth-worst
drop on the index.  Investors are  rewarding  the Sao Paulo-based company after
it shed 445 million reais ($217 million) of food and hygiene
assets and expanded its more profitable beauty and
pharmaceuticals businesses. Consumers in  Brazil , birthplace to
supermodels  Gisele Bundchen  and Adriana Lima, spent $43 billion
on personal care and beauty products in 2011, making it the
world’s biggest market after the U.S. and Japan, according to
London-based researcher Euromonitor International Ltd. Drug
sales in Brazil may climb as much as 74 percent to $52 billion
in 2016, according to IMS Health Inc.  “Focusing on pharmaceuticals, beauty, was an intelligent
strategy, especially because margins are higher,” Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps manage 220 million reais at Leme
Investimentos in Florianopolis, Brazil, said by telephone on Aug
28. Previously, “the company had a more aggressive strategy,
making acquisitions and expanding in different sectors, which
ended up undermining operations and cash-flow generation.”  Pharmaceutical Spending  Hypermarcas is counting on its drug and beauty divisions to
fuel sales growth, said Sandra Peres, an analyst at Sao Paulo-
based brokerage Coinvalores Corretora de Valores. The company,
which makes more than 190 consumer products, including Finn
artificial sweeteners, Jontex condoms and generic ibuprofen,
will post a  15 percent gain  in sales to 3.83 billion reais this
year, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. In 2011,
revenue climbed 5 percent, missing analysts’ estimates.  In December, Hypermarcas sold the Salsaretti, Puropure and
Etti food brands to  Bunge Ltd. (BG) , and the Perfex, Cross Hatch and
the Assolan cleaning brands to Quimica Amparo. “We don’t expect
new assets sale,”  Chief Financial Officer Martim Mattos said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  “The company considers the medicine and beauty & personal
hygiene markets to be the most attractive given the prospects
for profit and growth because of demographics such as the
expanding middle class, increasing average incomes, low
unemployment and an aging population,” he said.  Brazilians spent $29.9 billion on pharmaceuticals in 2011,
according to IMS Health. Over-the-counter and prescription drugs
accounted for 56 percent of Hypermarcas’s 957 million reais in
net revenue in the second quarter, up from 52 percent a year
earlier.  Highest Valuation  Hypermarcas said on Aug. 10  earnings  before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization rose 20 percent to 230.4
million reais, topping the 201.1 million-real median estimate of
eight analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The company’s loss
excluding some items was bigger than analysts expected after the
weaker real boosted foreign debt costs.  The stock trades at 37 times its estimated earnings for
this year, the highest valuation of Bovespa index members.
Hypermarcas is also close to its 12-month  target price  of 13.39
reais per share, the average of 13 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, indicating there isn’t much room for it to rally
further, said Caue Pinheiro, an analyst at SLW Corretora.  Hypermarcas fell 0.7 percent to 13.36 reais at 11:32 a.m in
 Sao Paulo  trading.  “This year, the price is already very near its limit,”
Pinheiro said yesterday in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  Leme Investimentos sold all its Hypermarcas  stock  earlier
this year to profit from the share surge, Brugger said.  Long-Term Outlook  “We prefer other stocks in the consumer sector, but
Hypermarcas gives an interesting exposure if you consider a
longer term,” he said, adding that the stock could rise to 20
reais a share, without providing a time frame.  After spending $4.9 billion on 21 acquisitions in the past
10 years, the most among Brazilian consumer-goods companies,
Hypermarcas is now focused on organic growth, as well as
boosting  cash flow  and reducing debt, Chief Executive Officer
Claudio Bergamo dos Santos said on the company’s Aug. 13 second-
quarter earnings conference call.  “All the restructuring process is turning out well now,”
Peres at Coinvalores said by phone on Aug. 28. “The company is
selling more and at better prices while reducing expenses and
costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katerina Petroff in Sao Paulo at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  