-- YPF Announces Two Shale-Gas Finds in Argentina
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-08-30T20:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/ypf-announces-two-shale-gas-finds-in-argentina.html
YPF SA (YPFD) ,  Argentina ’s biggest energy
company, made two shale-gas discoveries in the Vaca Muerta
region, one of which is part of a venture with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   The state-controlled producer will announce the finds to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission this afternoon,
Chief Executive Officer Miguel Galuccio said in Buenos Aires.  Presenting a five-year business plan today, Galuccio said
the company is looking for the “keys to unlock” potential at
Vaca Muerta and other fields through partnerships with local and
foreign companies to reverse falling output. Galuccio was
appointed after Argentina seized 51 percent of YPF from Repsol
SA in April following government accusation that the Spanish
company had under-invested.  YPF plans to invest $37 billion over the next five years
including $1.4 billion on 250 wells, he said. The company wants
to increase oil output by 29 percent and refining by 37 percent
over that period.  Galuccio is seeking to boost output at the mostly untapped
30,000 square-kilometer (11,600 square-mile) Vaca Muerta region
in southern Argentina, which holds at least 23 billion barrels
of oil in resources, according to a survey by Ryder Scott.  While the Repsol expropriation may scare off some
companies, others will invest in the country, Galuccio said. YPF
signed shale agreements with local companies including Bridas
Corp. and is in “advanced talks” with  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  to develop
two areas, he said.  YPF also made three shale-oil discoveries in the San Jorge
basin, which is also home to Argentina’s largest conventional
oil field, Galuccio said.  Repsol Finds  The discoveries announced by Galuccio today were all made
before the company was nationalized, according to Repsol
documents, copies of which were seen by Bloomberg.  The company plans to sell bonds locally next week through
six banks and has picked a bank to handle an international bond
issuance as it seeks funds to increase production, he said.  YPF plans to meet with bond investors abroad in September
and seeks to sell an international bond by the first quarter,
Galuccio said.  Galuccio declined to specify the size of the bond sales,
saying that YPF will need to cover 20 percent of its financing
needs with debt, with the company itself funding the other 80
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  