-- Yunel Escobar Drives in 5 Runs as Blue Jays Defeat Yankees 8-5
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-08-30T04:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/yunel-escobar-drives-in-5-runs-as-blue-jays-defeat-yankees-8-5.html
Yunel Escobar drove in five runs as
the Toronto  Blue Jays  defeated the American League East-leading
 New York  Yankees 8-5.  The Yankees (75-55) remain 3 1/2 games ahead of the
Baltimore Orioles, who lost 8-1 last night to the AL Central-
leading Chicago White Sox. The Tampa Bay Rays (71-59) are now
four games behind the Yankees in the division after they beat
the Texas Rangers 8-4.  “We didn’t play well, that’s the bottom line,” Yankees
manager  Joe Girardi  told reporters after his team made three
errors that led to four unearned runs. “We had chances
offensively -- didn’t get it done. We had chances defensively --
didn’t get it done.”  Escobar hit a run-scoring double in the third inning to
give the Blue Jays a 3-2 lead last night at Yankee Stadium. He
added a two-run homer in the sixth inning and a two-run double
in the ninth.  The Toronto shortstop, who also doubled in the eighth
inning, became the first Major League Baseball player with at
least four extra-base hits in a game against the Yankees since
the Los Angeles Angels’ Garrett Anderson on Aug. 21, 2007.  Curtis Granderson  drove in three runs with a run-scoring
single in the first and a two-run double in the third that gave
the Yankees their last lead at 4-3.  J.A. Happ (3-1) allowed four runs on four hits and struck
out six in five innings. Casey Janssen pitched a perfect ninth
inning for his 17th save.  Sabathia’s Streak ends  C.C. Sabathia (13-4) broke his six-game winning streak in
giving up five runs on nine hits in seven innings. He struck out
eight. Three of the runs he allowed were unearned.  “You also have to give them credit for good at-bats, but I
need to make better pitches,” Sabathia said.  The Yankees have the second-best record in the AL, two
games worse than the Rangers, who fell to 77-53.  The Orioles (71-58) and  Oakland Athletics  (72-57) are tied
in the race for the AL’s two wild-card playoff berths, one-half
game ahead of the Rays. The Athletics beat the Cleveland Indians
8-4 yesterday.  The  Washington Nationals , who lead the  National League East ,
broke their five-game losing streak with an 8-4 victory against
the  Miami Marlins .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  