-- Zoomlion Boosts Profit on Concrete Pumps; Sany Earnings Fall
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-08-30T16:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/zoomlion-boosts-profit-on-concrete-pumps-sany-earnings-fall.html
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co. (1157) ,  China ’s second-biggest maker of construction
equipment, boosted first-half profit 21 percent after raising
its share of the concrete-machinery market and boosting exports.  Net income rose to 5.62 billion yuan ($885 million) from
4.63 billion yuan a year earlier, the Changsha, China-based
company said in a Hong Kong stock exchange filing yesterday.
Larger rival Sany Heavy Industry Co., also based in Changsha,
posted a 13 percent profit drop on slumping excavator sales.  Zoomlion’s revenue jumped 21 percent as new products,
greater customer credit and overseas sales helped it weather a
“longer than expected” slowdown in domestic demand. Sany,
along with Caterpillar Inc. and Hitachi Construction Machinery
Co., has cut production of diggers in China as an equipment glut
and waning construction damp demand.  “The growth of the construction-machinery industry will
slow down” in China, Zoomlion said. “The export of domestic
construction-machinery products will continue to increase.”  Sany, which is more reliant on excavators than Zoomlion,
said net income dropped to 5.16 billion  yuan  from 5.94 billion
yuan in a Shanghai stock exchange filing, citing domestic
accounting. Sales rose 4.6 percent to 31.8 billion yuan. Revenue
from excavators, the second-largest segment, fell 6 percent to
6.6 billion yuan.  Sany’s overseas sales more than doubled to 3.3 billion
yuan, helped by demand in  emerging markets . The company also
bought Putzmeister Holding GmbH,  Germany ’s largest cement-pump
maker, for $653 million, including debt, in April.  Zoomlion Receivables  Zoomlion’s profit from concrete machinery, its biggest
unit, rose 52 percent to 6.12 billion yuan. The company’s  trade
receivables , after provisions for impairments, jumped 63 percent
to 18.9 billion yuan.  Revenue rose to 29.1 billion yuan. Overseas sales jumped
27 percent, helped by the introduction of truck-mounted concrete
pumps in Germany and crane sales in  Iran . The company didn’t
break down sales by region.  Zoomlion has fallen 1.1 percent this year in  Hong Kong 
trading. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  has risen 6.1 percent.
Sany, which delayed plans for a Hong Kong share sale last month,
has dropped 18 percent in Shanghai.  Zoomlion is trying to sell its sanitation-equipment unit to
focus on construction machinery. The company this week extended
the deadline for bids to as late Dec. 31 in the expectation of
finding a buyer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Denslow in Hong Kong at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 