-- Zynga Is Said to Lose Two Vice Presidents Amid Stock Tumble
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-08-30T21:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-30/zynga-said-to-lose-two-vice-presidents-amid-stock-price-tumble.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  vice presidents Bill
Mooney and Brian Birtwistle have departed, following other top
managers amid slowing sales and a stock decline at the biggest
maker of social games on  Facebook Inc. (FB) , a person with knowledge
of the matter said.  Mooney, a vice president of studios who was general manager
of the popular “FarmVille” game, and Birtwistle, a vice
president of marketing, resigned this week, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the departures aren’t public.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  has been unable to
prevent defections as the company’s stock-price decline erodes
the value of equity used to compensate staff. The CEO recently
told employees they would receive option grants to help make up
for a 71 percent slump in shares since Zynga’s December initial
public offering. Investors are shunning the stock on signs that
growth is slowing.  Five other managers who exited this month include Mike Verdu, Zynga’s former chief creative officer, who left to start
his own company.  Zynga, founded by Pincus in 2007, has experienced lower
turnover than other technology companies, Dani Dudeck, a
spokeswoman for Zynga, wrote in an e-mailed statement.  “Zynga’s voluntary attrition rate was around one percent
for the first four years, and our current attrition levels are
not only below what we expected and modeled in our post-IPO
planning, they continue to stay well below the industry
average,” Dudeck wrote.  Going Distance  It’s not uncommon for some employees to move on at this
stage in the life of a startup, said  Bing Gordon , a Zynga
director and partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, an
investor in the company. That happened at Amazon.com Inc. and
Apple Inc., Gordon said in an interview with Bloomberg TV.  “When you have a brilliant founder who wants to go the
distance, not everybody stays with him,” Gordon said.  Mooney, who worked on the Zynga Game Network, was hired
from Lucasarts Entertainment Co. in 2008, according to his
profile on  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ’s site. Birtwistle, a former manager
at Amazon.com, began at Zynga last year.  Zynga fell 2.3 percent to $2.89 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  