-- ‘Vagina’ Speech Makes Michigan Lawmaker Symbol in Abortion Wars
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/-vagina-speech-makes-michigan-lawmaker-symbol-in-abortion-wars.html
Ever since Lisa Brown sarcastically
told fellow  Michigan  lawmakers that she was flattered by their
interest in her private parts, her life has become a swirl of
interviews, hugs, handshakes and a starring role in a Capitol
steps performance of the “The Vagina Monologues.”  “That was the craziest week of my life,” said Brown, a
45-year-old Democrat from suburban  Detroit  who on June 13 used
the word “vagina” in opposing a bill to regulate abortion
clinics more strictly. The next day, Republicans prevented her
from speaking, along with fellow state representative Democrat
Barb Byrum, who yelled “vasectomy” when her pleas to speak
were ignored.  The one-day gag order has become a rallying point for
Democrats who accuse Republicans, who dominate the state
Legislature, of trampling  women’s rights  and free speech. Videos
of Brown’s and Byrum’s statements have become fodder for
bloggers, talk radio and cable television as lawmakers across
the nation debate a record number of bills aimed at making
abortions more difficult to obtain.  Battles over such laws have flared in 14 states this year,
including  Mississippi ,  Kansas ,  Arizona ,  Texas  and  Florida ,
according to the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights
Action League in  Washington  and the Guttmacher Institute. In
2011, a record 92 such bills passed, according to the
nonpartisan New York-based institute, which studies reproductive
rights.  Women compose 21 percent of Michigan’s Legislature, and 24
percent in all states combined, according to the Center for
American Women in Politics at  Rutgers University  in  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey . Two decades ago, those numbers were 15
percent and 18 percent respectively.  Splendor and Silence  More female legislators are speaking out in defense of
reproductive rights, said Ruth B. Mandel, director of the
Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers. She knew of no others
silenced.  “It’s a kind of muscleman response,” she said.  The plain talk and brute politics played out June 13 in the
ornate House chamber in the Capitol in Lansing, about 90 miles
(145 kilometers) west of Detroit. It’s gold and teal forum
surrounded on three sides by overhead public galleries; etched
glass panels with the seals of U.S. states form the ceiling high
above the 110 members.  And it was there that Brown, from West Bloomfield, told
Republicans: “I’m flattered you’re all so interested in my
vagina, but no means no.”  Byrum, a 34-year-old from Onondaga, about 15 miles from
Lansing, objected when she wasn’t permitted to speak on an
amendment she offered to allow vasectomies only in medical
emergencies.  ‘Temper Tantrums’  The next day, Brown and Byrum were told by Republican Floor
Leader Jim Stamas of Midland that they couldn’t speak. Brown and
Byrum said they were never given reasons.  Fanning Democrats’ outrage were  House Republicans  who
called the women’s floor comments “temper tantrums,” and
compared silencing the two women to “giving a kid a timeout for
a day.” Some cited Brown’s “no means no” remark, which they
said compared support of the bill to rape.  The measure, which also makes it a crime to coerce a woman
to abort a fetus, passed 70-39 and awaits consideration in the
Senate, which Republicans also dominate. Ed Rivet, spokesman for
Right to Life Michigan, said he is confident it will pass the
upper chamber later this year.  Flying Ashtray  Stamas didn’t return telephone messages seeking comment.  Ari Adler, a spokesman for the House Republican caucus,
said by e-mail that Brown “crossed the line” by comparing the
bill to a rape and that Byrum was disruptive.  “This has never been about the word vagina, but about
respect and professionalism in honoring open and honest
debate,” he said.  The Michigan Legislature has seen fisticuffs, insults and
an assault involving an ashtray. No members were banned from
speaking as a result, said  Bill Ballenger , publisher of Inside
Michigan Politics and a 45-year observer of Lansing battles.  “Believe me, it’s not going to happen again,” said
Ballenger, a former Republican senator, who called House
Republicans’ actions “asinine.”  The muzzling “has mobilized people,” said Gretchen Whitmer, leader of the Michigan Senate’s Democratic minority.
“The Republicans haven’t apologized. They’ve given more
excuses.”  The incident caused “a dramatic spike” in donations, said
John Tramontana, a state  Democratic Party  spokesman, who
wouldn’t divulge the amount raised.  “It’s been a great organizing tool,” he said.  It’s Showtime  Democrats hastily arranged the June 18 performance of “The
Vagina Monologues” play at the Capitol for a rally of about
3,000 people. A dozen female legislators took part reading its
anecdotes about sexuality and women’s relationship with their
bodies. Playwright Eve Ensler attended and called on Republicans
to apologize.  The blowback enveloped Republican Representative Mike Callton, who was quoted saying that that he wouldn’t refer to a
vagina in mixed company.  That, he said in a telephone interview, drew more than
1,000 angry e-mails from as far as Kazakhstan and  Japan , and
taunting mail, such as a vagina coloring book and what he
described as a life-size model of the body part in question.  Raining Cash  Callton, 54, a chiropractor, said Brown made a provocative
statement in a House chamber watched by children and others who
might be aghast.  “If I made the same comment about my male counterpart
before a woman speaker, I would expect to have serious
consequences,” said Callton, from Nashville, a village of 1,600
in southern Michigan.  For Byrum and Brown, the consequences were celebrity and
money. Both are leaving the House and running for county clerk
where they live, and both said they have had a surge of campaign
donations, though neither had tallied how much.  Byrum opened a political action committee called More Women
in Government. The PAC was established the day after Byrum and
Brown were silenced, which Byrum called a “misogynistic act by
the Republicans.” Byrum said money has come into the fund so
fast she doesn’t know how much it holds.  “I still get stopped in the grocery story by people
saying, ‘Way to speak up,’” she said in a telephone interview.
“The outpouring of support has been just amazing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, MI 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Merelman at  