-- Abound Solar to Suspend Operations, Will Seek Bankruptcy
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-06-28T21:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/abound-solar-to-close-as-early-as-today-greentech-media-says.html
Abound Solar Inc., a U.S. solar
manufacturer that was awarded a $400 million U.S. loan
guarantee, will suspend operations and file for bankruptcy
because its panels were too expensive to compete.  Abound borrowed about $70 million against the guarantee,
the Loveland, Colorado-based company said today in a  statement .
It plans to file for  bankruptcy protection  in Wilmington,
 Delaware , next week.  The failure will follow that of Solyndra LLC, which shut
down in August after receiving a $535 million loan guarantee
from the same U.S. Energy Department program. Abound stopped
production in February to focus on reducing costs after a global
oversupply and increasing competition from  China  drove down the
 price  of solar panels by half last year.  “Aggressive pricing actions from Chinese solar-panel
companies have made it very difficult for an early stage startup
company like Abound to scale in current market conditions,” the
company said in the statement.  U.S. taxpayers may lose $40 million to $60 million on the
loan after Abound’s assets are sold and the bankruptcy
proceeding closes,  Damien LaVera , an Energy Department
spokesman, said in a  statement  today.  “When the floor fell out on the price of solar panels,
Abound’s product was no longer cost competitive,” LaVera said.  Bankruptcy Warning  Cliff Stearns , the chairman of the House Energy and
Commerce Committee’s oversight panel that has held several
hearings and collected thousands of administration e-mails
relating to Solyndra’s guarantee, said he didn’t think Abound’s
closure warranted its own investigation.  “We know why they went bankrupt. We warned them they would
go bankrupt,” Stearns, a Florida Republican, told reporters
today. “The larger question is why the administration was
pursuing a green-energy policy in which companies are going
bankrupt and wasting taxpayer money.”  Stearns said his panel would probably hold a hearing on the
guarantee program.  Darrell Issa , chairman of the House Committee
on Oversight and Government Reform, continues to investigate the
loan-guarantee program and still hasn’t received some requested
documents from the Energy Department, said Jeffrey Solsby, a
spokesman for Issa.  Abound was awarded the loan guarantee to build two
factories to make thin-film panels using cadmium telluride. It
completed one plant, in Longmont,  Colorado , and never began
construction on the second, which was planned for Tipton,
 Indiana . The company last received money from the Energy
Department in August, before Solyndra’s collapse.  Economic Boost  Representative Dan Burton, an Indiana Republican, said he
supported Abound because he thought the company would boost his
state’s economy.  “We had a terrible economic problem. Plants were closing
there in that area,” Burton told reporters in  Capitol Hill 
today. “We thought this would be a great way to create jobs. If
I had known that Abound, or Solyndra, had been in the fiscal
situation it was in, I certainly would have never supported
it.”  “This is not surprising at all,”  Anthony Kim , an analyst
at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in New York, said today in an
interview. “They were trying to sell to a competitive, over-
supplied market with limited production. That keeps costs
high.”  $35 Billion  The Energy Department has provided almost $35 billion in
loans, loan guarantees and conditional commitments to renewable-
energy companies. About 35 percent of that is for solar-
generating projects, which benefit from falling panel prices,
compared with less than 4 percent for solar manufacturers,
according to LaVera.  Besides Abound and Solyndra, two other solar manufacturers
received loan guarantees. 1366 Technologies Inc. won approval to
borrow as much as $150 million to produce polysilicon for solar
panels and SoloPower Inc. was awarded a $197 million guarantee
to make rolls of flexible solar panels using a copper-indium-
gallium-selenide composite.  Neither 1366 nor SoloPower have drawn funding under the
Energy Department program, LaVera said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  