-- MacDonald Dettwiler Shifts Focus to Consumer in U.S. Deal
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-06-28T20:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/macdonald-dettwiler-shifts-focus-to-consumer-in-u-s-deal.html
MacDonald, Dettwiler & Associates
Ltd. (MDA)  will gain a beachhead in the U.S. with the $875 million
purchase of  Loral Space & Communications Inc. (LORL) ’s commercial
satellite unit as the company that made  NASA ’s space arm cuts
reliance on  government spending .  About two-thirds of a projected C$1.9 billion ($1.9
billion) in revenue will come from commercial communications
after the transaction, compared with one-third now,  Chief
Financial Officer  Anil Wirasekara told analysts on a conference
call yesterday. The Richmond, British Columbia-based company’s
sales will double and the U.S. will replace Canada as its
biggest market.  “It will launch them in a leadership position in their
commercial communications satellite market, and provide them
with a U.S. platform that they have been looking for,” Tim
Caulfield, co-lead manager of the C$1.7 billion Bissett Canadian
Equity Fund, said in a telephone interview from Calgary.  MacDonald Dettwiler had been looking to gain a springboard
in the U.S. since completing the C$850 million sale in January
2011 of its property information business to TPG Capital.  Investors welcomed the satellite transaction, which will be
financed with a mixture of cash and debt. MacDonald Dettwiler
stock jumped 28 percent to C$57.21 yesterday -- its biggest gain
since its initial public offering in July 2000. The shares,
which had dropped 5.2 percent this year through June 26, fell
0.4 percent to C$57.05 by 4 p.m. today.  Robotic Arm  Bissett and parent  Franklin Templeton  Investments together
own about 2.6 percent of MacDonald Dettwiler’s outstanding
stock, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That makes
Franklin Templeton the fourth-largest shareholder in MacDonald
Dettwiler, the data show.  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  is the
biggest holder with 14 percent of the stock.  MacDonald Dettwiler is expanding into space systems four
years after the Canadian government blocked the company’s
attempt to sell its satellite division to  Alliant Techsystems
Inc. (ATK) , now based in Arlington, Virginia.  The proposed sale to Alliant was particularly controversial
because of MacDonald Dettwiler’s Canadarm and its exclusive
distribution rights to Canada’s Radarsat earth observation
satellites. The robotic arm, adorned with a Canadian flag in
space and featured in school textbooks, was first used on space
shuttles in 1981. The rejection was the first time the country
had blocked a foreign takeover since at least 1985.  U.S. Base  Acquiring Loral’s satellite operations will add about $2
billion of future work to MacDonald Dettwiler’s backlog,
according to a statement. As of March 31, the Canadian company
had C$765 million in its order book.  “We’re realizing our long-term objective of gaining a
stronger presence in the U.S. market and significantly
increasing our focus on the commercial market,” Chief Executive
Officer Daniel Friedmann said on the call.  Loral’s satellite unit is driven by the global demand for
television, digital audio, broadband Internet, mobile
communications, and voice telephony, Friedman said in the
statement.  The deal is subject to regulatory clearance and will
probably close later this year, MacDonald Dettwiler said.  The Loral unit, which employs about 3,200 people and owns
manufacturing facilities in  Palo Alto ,  California , had revenue
of $1.1 billion last year. It has delivered more than 240
satellites and has been in business for 50 years.  Larger Orders  “Now that it has a manufacturing base, MDA should
theoretically be able to bid on larger orders that they weren’t
able to bid on before,” said Aubrey Hearn, a  fund manager  at
Sentry Select Capital Corp. in Toronto, which manages C$7.5
billion in assets and holds MacDonald Dettwiler stock. “Before
they were bidding on some contracts and they would just get the
design part of the contract.”  Operating earnings at the combined company would have been
C$5.94 a share last year instead of C$3.69, MacDonald Dettwiler
said in a  presentation  to investors. Operating earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization would have jumped
to C$345 million from C$194 million.  MacDonald Dettwiler plans to fund the purchase with cash, a
three-year $101 million note and $514 million in debt under a
 credit line  from  RBC Capital Markets , the company said.  No Dilution  “This is the kind of deal we had been hoping for,”
Sebastian van Berkom, president of Van Berkom & Associates in
Montreal, said in a telephone interview. “It has a significant
impact on the bottom line and it helps to diversify the business
from a lot of government work to now commercial satellites and a
lot more manufacturing. Plus with the way it’s financed, there’s
no dilution to shareholders, which is fantastic.”  Van Berkom’s firm owns MacDonald Dettwiler stock as part of
the C$1.8 billion in assets it manages.  MacDonald Dettwiler’s push into commercial satellites comes
at a time of shrinking defense spending as governments in
 Canada , the U.S. and other countries seek to plug budget gaps.  Canada’s Department of National Defence plans to cut
program spending by C$1.1 billion by the fiscal year starting
April 2014, a decrease of 7.4 percent, according to the federal
government’s March 29 budget. The government has said it will
trim program spending by C$5.3 billion by 2014 to eliminate the
country’s deficit.  “Governments generally are in tough shape,” said Hearn at
Sentry Select. “They need to cut budgets. To rely solely on
governments as a big customer is risky. We like that this deal
has a much more commercial focus, and the government will be a
much smaller part of the revenue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  