-- Madoff Trustee’s Tremont Accord Defeats Challenge
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-06-29T16:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/madoff-trustee-s-tremont-accord-defeats-challenge.html
A $1 billion settlement between the
liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s brokerage and Tremont Group
Holdings Inc. survived an investor challenge, helping to free up
money for other investors in the  Ponzi scheme .  Court challenges had been tying up the majority of the
$9 billion that trustee Irving Picard has raised mostly through
settlements. This week, a lawyer said his client, Adele Fox,
wouldn’t continue to challenge the Jeffry Picower estate’s
forfeiture of $5 billion to Madoff’s estate and more than
$2 billion to the U.S., and the U.S. Supreme Court refused to
hear an appeal over Picard’s payment formula, freeing up a
$2.3 billion customer fund.  Prices for claims on the con man’s estate have climbed to
as much as 68 cents on the dollar in recent weeks, from the low
60s, as traders gain “a sense that things are being resolved,”
said  Joseph Sarachek , managing director of claims trading at CRT
Capital Group LLC, which buys and sells distressed debt,
including the Madoff brokerage’s.  Separately, Peter Madoff’s guilty plea today -- to
conspiracy to commit  securities fraud  while working for his
brother -- contributes to that sentiment, Sarachek said.  In the accord with Tremont, the second-largest feeder to
the Ponzi scheme, Picard agreed to accept more than $1 billion
from Tremont hedge funds, allowing them to claim about
$3 billion from the con man’s estate. Investors in Tremont funds
had objected, saying they would lose by the funds’ contribution
to the settlement. Tremont said the $3 billion in Madoff claims
would help investors recover losses.  ‘Not Customers’  Dismissing the challenge as Tremont asked, U.S. District
Judge George Daniels said the investors couldn’t try to undo the
settlement because they weren’t direct customers of Madoff’s
brokerage.  “Appellants are not customers or creditors of BLMIS, and
are therefore not directly affected by the settlement,” Daniels
said in a written order filed June 27 in U.S. District Court in
 Manhattan . BLMIS is the defunct Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC.  Those appealing the Tremont agreement included Phoenix Lake
Partners LP, Lakeview Investment LP and a charitable trust.
Parties settling with Picard included Oppenheimer Acquisition
Corp., an affiliate of the Oppenheimer mutual funds that bought
Tremont, and Oppenheimer’s parents, MassMutual Holding LLC and
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co.  Feeder Funds  Picard had sued Tremont and related entities for
$2.1 billion, saying they ignored warnings that Madoff might be
running a Ponzi scheme and profited from it. Tremont was the
second-biggest so-called feeder into Madoff’s multibillion-
dollar fraud, after Fairfield Greenwich Group, Picard said.  Picard has paid investors about $333 million in the 3 1/2
years since Madoff’s 2008 arrest while charging $273 million for
his firm’s work. Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence.  Picard’s lawsuit is Picard v. Tremont Group Holdings Inc.,
10-5310,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan.) The appeal is 11-cv-07330, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  