-- Thai Finance Ministry Raises Growth Forecast as Output Rises
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-06-28T08:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/thai-finance-ministry-raises-growth-forecast-as-output-rises-2-.html
Thailand’s  finance ministry  raised
its growth forecast for a second time this year after industrial
output rose more than economists expected in May as supply
constraints after last year’s floods eased.  The  industrial production  index rose 5.53 percent from a
year earlier after a revised 0.1 percent contraction in April,
the Office of Industrial Economics said in Bangkok today. The
median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 2.5
percent gain. The agency had earlier reported that output
increased 0.54 percent in April.  Improving manufacturing and higher-than-estimated  exports 
in May could indicate that the recovery from the worst floods in
almost 70 years is picking up pace. The finance ministry today
raised its 2012 growth forecast to as much as 6.2 percent and
said easing inflationary pressure will allow the central bank to
hold the  interest rate  through 2012 as an economic slowdown in
 China  and a deepening debt crisis in Europe temper the outlook.  “We will continue to see good growth in manufacturing and
exports in the next few months as factories are catching up with
pent-up demand after the floods,” Kampon Adireksombat, an
economist at Tisco Securities Co. in Bangkok, said before the
data release. “The spillover impact from the European crisis
may kick in later this year.”  Exports rose 7.68 percent in May, boosted by higher auto
and electronics demand. Toyota Motor Thailand Co. said June 19
the nation’s vehicle sales more than doubled to a record last
month on new models, tax incentives and a recovery in production.  ‘Big Boost’  “The auto sector gave a big boost to overall manufacturing
as companies sped up production of passenger cars and pick-ups
to meet demand both for exports and the local market,” Sophon
Pholprasit, the office’s director general, said at a briefing.  “The electronics sector hasn’t fully recovered yet as many
factories haven’t finished installing new machinery after the
floods,” he said, adding that the slower recovery in
electronics and hard-disk drive output, as well as  Europe ’s debt
woes may act as a drag on manufacturing growth. The office
maintained a forecast for industrial production growth of as
much as 7 percent this year.  Gross domestic product is estimated to expand by 5.2
percent to 6.2 percent this year, with a mid-point forecast of
5.7 percent, Somchai Sujjapongse, head of the fiscal policy
office, said today in Bangkok. The finance ministry in March
predicted the economy would grow about 5.5 percent this year.  The economy will expand by at least 3 percent in the second
quarter, Boonchai Charassangsomboon, director of the finance
ministry’s macroeconomics office, said today. Exports will
increase 12.8 percent this year, he said, lower than its earlier
forecast in March.  The Bank of  Thailand  will maintain borrowing costs at 3
percent for the rest of the year, the finance ministry said in a
statement today. It had earlier said the key rate will rise to
3.25 percent by the end of the year.  The central bank this month cut its export growth forecast
to about 8 percent from 9 percent, while maintaining its gross
domestic product estimate at 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  