-- Thai Stock Selloff May Draw Foreign Flows, SEC Says
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-06-28T10:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/thai-stock-selloff-may-draw-foreign-flows-sec-says.html
Thailand  may have “another wave”
of foreign  buying  following the biggest two-month selloff in
equities in nine months as a revival in domestic consumption and
investment shields the economy from  Europe ’s debt crisis,
according to the country’s regulator.  “Global investors must find a place to put their money
during this critical time,” Vorapol Socatiyanurak, the
secretary general of the  Securities & Exchange Commission , said
in an interview in Bangkok yesterday. “The crisis in Europe
offers an opportunity for Thai equities, which has demonstrated
spectacular returns and resiliency from last year’s floods.”  Overseas  investors  bought more Thai equities than they sold
from December to April in the longest stretch of net purchases
in more than a year, culminating in a selloff in the past two
months on concern Europe’s debt crisis and China’s economic
slowdown will curb global growth. The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  has
 dropped  2.1 percent this quarter, headed for the first decline
since the three months to September 30.  The Thai gauge traded at 11.4 times estimated profits in
the week ended June 1, the lowest level since January, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s currently trading at 12
times, compared with 16.1 in the  Philippines , 13.7 in  Indonesia 
and 14.9 in  Malaysia . The SET Index  climbed  0.5 percent to close
at 1,171.32 today, the highest level since June 20.  Thai Hiccup  Overseas  investors  have sold 28.3 billion baht ($888
million) of Thai equities in May and June, the most since the
August-September period, according to stock exchange data.
Foreigners unloaded 58.5 billion baht of stocks during the
August-September period. They bought a net 96 billion baht
between December 2011 and April 2012.  “Thai shares have suffered a hiccup like other equity
markets worldwide on concern about Europe and  China ,” said
Mayuree Chowvikran, the head of research at Maybank Kim Eng
Securities (Thailand) Pcl, the nation’s largest stock brokerage.
“The strength of consumer demand and investments will boost
earnings growth of most listed companies.”  Thailand’s SET Index has gained 16 percent in the past 12
months, Asia’s second-best performer after the Philippines, even
as the nation’s worst floods in almost 70 years last year shut
plants and shattered consumption.  The economy, the biggest in Southeast Asia after Indonesia,
may expand as much as 6 percent in 2012, from 0.1 percent last
year, Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra said on June 20.  Earnings Growth  Earnings may grow 20 percent in 2013 from an estimated 15
percent this year, Sriyan Pietersz, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
Bangkok-based head of research for Southeast  Asia , said May 30.  The surge in automobile production and tourism earnings has
helped the economy counter the slowdown in export demand amid
the  European debt crisis , said Vorapol. Domestic spending has
also increased on rising wages, he said.  Vehicle output last month surged 105 percent to 202,834
units, a monthly record, as Honda Motor Co. and other automakers
resumed full production following the natural disaster in late
2011, according to the Thai Automotive Club, a trade group.
Foreign direct investment climbed 45 percent in the first five
months to 205.6 billion baht, the state Board of Investment said
yesterday.  The Thai stock index’s quarterly performance so far is the
third-best among benchmark gauges in  Southeast Asia . The
Philippine Stock Exchange Index has gained 2.9 percent and the
FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index has fallen 0.1 percent.  Provincial Listings  The SEC also expects about 40 companies from other
provinces to list their stocks by the end of 2013, said Vorapol.
The regulator has targeted companies with headquarters outside
Bangkok to increase the number of stocks on the bourse, he said.  “Companies in the provinces are at a serious disadvantage
for access to new capital,” said Vorapol. “We are making every
attempt to help them list their stocks so they can raise money
to improve their competitive advantage.”  Only 7 percent of 489 publicly traded companies on the
Stock Exchange of Thailand are based outside Bangkok, he said.  -- Editors: Chan Tien Hin, Tony Jordan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  