-- Airbus Said to Unveil Aircraft-Assembly Line in Alabama
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-06-28T10:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/airbus-said-to-unveil-aircraft-assembly-line-in-alabama.html
Airbus SAS is poised to announce
plans for a commercial-jet assembly line in  Alabama , its first
in the U.S., to meet demand as North American airlines renew
their fleets, two people with knowledge of the plan said.  The proposal may be unveiled at the Farnborough air show,
which starts July 9 in the U.K., or even beforehand, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the plan is
confidential. The city of Mobile is the preferred site, though
Toulouse, France-based Airbus has made no formal decision
whether to go ahead with the line, one of the people said.  North America is the biggest market for short- to medium-
haul aircraft such as Airbus’s A320, which competes with  Boeing
Co. (BA) ’s best-selling 737. With  North American (NOA)  carriers needing to
replace thousands of planes in coming years, Airbus would be
able to tell buyers that its models are put together locally.  “Airbus is trying to do the smart thing, which is to bring
production to places that are closer to customers,” said Adam Pilarski, an economist at consultant Avitas in Chantilly,
Virginia. “Another advantage is that Americans in general are
lower paid, so you can get cheap labor in the U.S.”  A big portion of the supply chain for Airbus planes is
already in the U.S., including parts from companies including
Spirit AeroSystems Holdings Inc., United Technologies Corp.,
Honeywell International Inc. and General Electric Co. An
assembly line with planes flying off directly to local customers
would give Airbus a visible presence and break Boeing’s monopoly
of building large civil planes in  North America .  China Assembly Line  A final assembly line is where the biggest portions of the
plane, including the fuselage, the wing, the tail section, and
engines, get assembled to create a plane. Airbus already has one
such non-European line, for single aisle planes, in Tianjin,
 China .  The line carries out 5 percent of the total work in
building a plane. The biggest and most technologically demanding
parts of Airbus planes are designed and constructed in  Europe .
The wings are built in the U.K., cockpits in  France , the
fuselage and parts of the wing in  Germany , and the tail section
in  Spain . Engines are provided by companies including  CFM
International , a venture of GE and France’s Safran SA.  Stefan Schaffrath, an Airbus spokesman, said the company
has “nothing to announce at this point.” Chief Executive
Officer Fabrice Bregier was quoted yesterday by Spanish
newspaper Economista as saying that the Alabama plant is one of
“many ideas” being pursued by the company, a unit of  European
Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. (EAD)   Mobile View  Win Hallett, president of the Mobile Area Chamber of
Commerce, declined to comment yesterday about Airbus’s plans,
and calls to Mobile Mayor Samuel Jones weren’t returned.  Mobile City Council member Fred Richardson said on June 21
that the city planned a major economic announcement within two
weeks, according to a story that day on the website of WPMI-TV.
That would mean an announcement could come before the air show.  EADS rose were little changed at 26.56 euros as of midday
in Paris. The shares have gained almost 10 percent this year.  Airbus is now building 40 single-aisle planes a month and
will increase that to 42 by yearend. It had considered moving to
a rate of 44 though officials recently said supplier
difficulties in keeping pace led it to hold off for now.  The planemaker since last year has been marketing single
aisle planes with new engines, known as the A320neo, which will
begin production from 2017. A plant in Mobile could assemble
either traditional A320s or A320neos or both, since the aircraft
are the same except for engines.  Lower Labor Costs  Among the advantages of assembling planes in the U.S. would
be labor costs, currency advantages, and also political capital,
said analysts.  “It would be good politically, as in China, as it gives
local identity to the product,” said  Nick Cunningham , managing
partner of Agency Partners in  London . “Final assembly is best
for that as politicians can be photographed next to a whole
plane, even if there is less value in the final assembly,
typically 5 percent of value, than there could be in some
aerostructures sub-assemblies” already coming from the U.S.  Almost all commercial aircraft worldwide are sold in U.S.
dollars. When the dollar is low relative to the euro -- the
currency in which Airbus has most of its costs -- that penalizes
Airbus in re-patriating dollar revenues.  Squeezing Out Costs  Airbus in recent years has sought to squeeze out costs so
it can compete with rival Boeing even with the euro at $1.35.
One reliable way to hedge against currency swings is having more
work done in U.S. dollar zone countries.  An Alabama plant for Airbus would expand the state’s base
of foreign manufacturers, a group that includes  Daimler AG (DAI)  and
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  Daimler makes Mercedes-Benz M-, R- and GL-
Class sport-utility vehicles in Tuscaloosa, while Hyundai builds
Sonata sedans and Elantra compact cars in Montgomery.  Airbus chose Mobile in 2005 to be home to an assembly plant
for U.S. Air Force refueling planes, and said it might also
build jet freighters there as well. Those plans were dashed when
Airbus lost the tanker contract to Boeing, though Airbus may bid
again when a different, larger class of tankers is replaced.  Jet Locations  The planemaker has three final assembly lines for civil
single-aisle aircraft, in Hamburg, Toulouse, and Tianjin. Airbus
assembles its wide-body A330 and A380 superjumbo in Toulouse and
recently began building the first A350 twin-aisle jet at a new
plant in the French city. That plane is scheduled to begin
service by mid-2014.  An Airbus engineering center opened in Alabama in 2007,
ahead of the two rounds of bidding for the tanker contract, and
that center has continued to grow.  Building jets in Alabama would allow Airbus to take
advantage of so-called right-to-work laws, which bar union
membership as a requirement of employment.  That can hold down employers’ wage and benefit costs.
Boeing chose nearby  South Carolina , another right-to-work state,
for a 787 Dreamliner plant in 2009, its first commercial-jet
factory outside the Seattle-area manufacturing hub where the
company was founded in 1916.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  