-- Airlines Lift U.S.-to-Europe Fares by Paring Seats
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-06-28T20:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/airlines-lift-u-s-to-europe-fares-by-paring-seats.html
U.S. carriers led by  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  are shielding their lucrative trans-
Atlantic business from the worst of  Europe ’s economic slump,
after shrinking the supply of seats to support higher fares.  Summer ticket prices to western Europe have risen an
average of 3 percent from 2011, according to Travelocity.com.
Demand for U.S.-to-Europe trips also is holding up, with ticket
sales climbing 5.9 percent to 1.31 million for the peak travel
months, according to data compiled by Airlines Reporting Corp.  Flights across the Atlantic are the biggest overseas market
for U.S. airlines, with traffic that can roughly double in U.S.
summer months from wintertime lows, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Cutting capacity helps carriers maintain pricing power,
especially with European business travel at risk from the
region’s economic slowdown.  “The industry is being proactive about restructuring the
amount of seats that are available for sale given the  European
debt crisis ,”  Dan McKenzie , an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw in
New York, said in a telephone interview.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , traditionally the first U.S. carrier
to report operating results each month, probably will give the
initial glimpse at summertime flights to Europe next week with
its traffic report for June. After paring capacity, it filled
84.6 percent of seats on trans-Atlantic flights in May, up 0.9
percentage point from a year earlier, even as traffic fell.  “All indications are that Europe is holding up well, David Fintzen, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in New York, said in a
telephone interview. ‘‘You’ve seen underlying demand trends get
a little bit stronger over the last couple of months.’’  Ticket Volume  That pattern shows up in the information from Airlines
Reporting Corp., which clears transactions for flights booked on
U.S. airlines. That gives the Arlington, Virginia-based company
a look at future bookings instead of the backward snapshot
provided by carriers.  While the number of tickets sold for each of the three
summer months increased, the data also show challenges as
airlines grapple with slowing economic growth. Fares for both
June and July bookings declined before an August increase,
Airlines Reporting Corp. data showed.  Flights from the U.S. to western Europe are averaging
$1,315 for May through September, up about 3 percent from the
same period in 2011, Travelocity data show.  Industry Consolidation  Ticket prices, pressured by competition in the past, are
benefiting from industry consolidation and a growing number of
global marketing alliances, said Courtney Scott, editor at
Southlake, Texas-based Travelocity.  Delta bought  Northwest Airlines  in October 2008 and was the
world’s largest carrier until  United Airlines  combined with
Continental Airlines Inc. to form United Continental in 2010.
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , the biggest U.S. discount carrier,
acquired AirTran Holdings Inc. in May 2011.  ‘‘We’re seeing a higher increase in airfares because of
these mergers,” Scott said. “The prices are just going to just
keep going up.”  Jet-fuel prices  dropped 7 percent to $3.03 a gallon in May,
paring a first-quarter surge, without relaxing availability of
seats overall.  The drop, which means lower costs for airlines, has helped
spur gains in their shares.  ‘Disciplined’ Approach  The  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index (BUSAIRL)  of 10 carriers has
climbed 23 percent this year, with Atlanta-based Delta and
United Continental among the top five performers. Delta gained
38 percent to $11.16 in the period, while United Continental
increased 29 percent to $24.25.  United Continental, based in  Chicago , will remain
“disciplined” in managing capacity and won’t be affected by
short-term swings in fuel prices, Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Smisek  told shareholders at a meeting this month.  Rodman & Renshaw’s McKenzie said airlines have not added
any new capacity for July and August. In fact, United trimmed
its schedule for both months.  Competitor Delta plans to cut an additional 5 percent of
its trans-Atlantic capacity in the fourth quarter because of a
weakened euro and the risk of higher fuel costs, President Ed Bastian said in May.  “There’s been a rationalization of capacity in the market
over the last few years especially with alliances and the joint
ventures,”  Helane Becker , an analyst with Dahlman Rose & Co. in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “The summer is going
to be very strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  