-- Amazon Said to Add Social Features for Tablet Digital Games
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-06-28T22:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/amazon-said-to-add-social-features-to-digital-games-for-tablet.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  will make it easier
for developers to add social features to games for the Kindle
Fire tablet, a person with knowledge of the matter said, working
to narrow  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s lead in the market for tablets.  The world’s largest online retailer plans to release tools
for digital-game makers by the end of July, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the plans aren’t public.
Developers will be able to add a broader range of features,
including tracking high scores and monitoring awards won while
playing games, the person said.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is rushing to make
Kindle games more alluring to help Amazon increase sales of the
devices, which hold 17 percent of the $66.4 billion tablet
market, compared with 55 percent for Apple’s iPad. Amazon is
also trying to woo developers to help it grab a bigger slice of
the global social-gaming market, which Lazard Capital Markets
predicts will reach $8.98 billion in 2015.  “Amazon has been hiring a lot of folks in games, both
developers and people to help grow their platform,” said  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in  San Francisco .
“Third-party developers are also warming up, because
monetization is better on Fire than other Android devices.”  Cat Griffin, a spokeswoman for Amazon, declined to comment.  Amazon lags behind rivals in downloadable applications. The
company has about 43,000 apps, compared with 4,000 when the
store debuted in March 2011.  Google (GOOG)  Inc. and Apple each offer
more than 600,000 apps.  Still, Amazon’s store, which peddles apps built for
Google’s Android software, generates more revenue per user than
Google’s.  Money-making Apps  Every $1 generated in Apple’s iTunes  App Store  fetches 89
cents in Amazon’s and 23 cents in Google’s, according to  Flurry ,
a provider of app-analytics software.  Amazon, based in Seattle, has already taken steps to make
apps more appealing. It started letting users make purchases
within the applications sold in its online store in April,
matching a feature offered by Apple and Google.  Adding variety to the app store is part of Amazon’s
strategy to increase demand for the Kindle tablet, which went on
sale in November and generates revenue through sales of digital
music, books, movies and apps. Amazon may make $136 on each
Kindle Fire over the lifetime of the tablet, thanks to movie,
book and app downloads,  Ross Sandler , an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in New York, estimated in January.  Kindle had 17 percent of the tablet market in the fourth
quarter, while Apple’s was 55 percent, according to researcher
IDC.  Amazon fell 1.9 percent to $221.31 at the close in New
York. The stock has climbed 28 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  