-- Ann Curry Plans ‘Today’ Show Exit, New York Times Reports
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-06-28T00:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/ann-curry-plans-today-show-exit-new-york-times-reports.html
Ann Curry will leave as co-host of
NBC’s “Today” show, the  New York  Times reported. The shakeup
follow ratings gains by ABC’s “Good Morning America.”  Curry, 55, will announce her departure as Matt Lauer’s co-
host on tomorrow’s show, the newspaper said, citing unidentified
people with close ties to the network. Savannah Guthrie, a 9
a.m. co-host, is negotiating with the Comcast Corp.-owned
network to replace Curry in July, the Times said.  The switch is aimed at protecting NBC’s lead in viewers
after “Good Morning America” topped “Today” in weekly
Nielsen audience ratings in April for the first time in 16
years. NBC’s weekday morning show has trailed “GMA” on several
other occasions over the past two months.  Robert Barnett, Curry’s attorney, declined to discuss his
client’s status when reached by Bloomberg News. NBC officials 
didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Curry spent 14 years as news anchor of “Today” before
succeeding Meredith Vieira as co-host last year. Guthrie, 40, is
a co-host of the third hour of “Today,” and is NBC’s chief
legal correspondent.  The NBC broadcast network  generated  $1.85 billion of
revenue in the first quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. “Today” brings in almost $500 million in annual
advertising revenue, the Times reported today.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, is the largest U.S. cable
TV service and holds a controlling stake in  NBC Universal , which
includes the NBC network, Universal Pictures film studio, theme
parks and cable channels E!, USA and  MSNBC .  Curry anchored “Dateline NBC” from May 2005 until
September 2011, according to her “Today” website biography.
She joined NBC News in August 1990 as a Chicago-based
correspondent.  Comcast rose 1.5 percent to $31.04 at the close in New
York. The shares have climbed 31 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  