-- Ann Curry Says She Will Leave as Co-Host of NBC’s ‘Today’
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-06-28T20:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/ann-curry-says-she-will-leave-as-co-host-of-nbc-s-today-show.html
Ann Curry will leave as co-host of
NBC’s “Today” show following ratings gains by ABC’s “Good
Morning America.”  Curry, 55, made the announcement during the program’s live
broadcast today and said she will still do special news
assignments and report from the Olympics for NBC.  The move is aimed at protecting NBC’s lead in viewers after
“Good Morning America” topped “Today” in weekly Nielsen
audience ratings in April for the first time in 16 years. NBC’s
weekday morning show has trailed “GMA” on several other
occasions over the past two months.  “I will still be a part of the ‘Today’ show family but I’m
going to have a new title and a new role,” Curry said on this
morning’s broadcast. “They’re giving me some fancy new titles
which essentially means that I’m going to get tickets to every
big story we want to cover with a terrific team of my
choosing.”  Curry spent 14 years as news anchor of “Today” before
succeeding Meredith Vieira as co-host last year. Savannah
Guthrie, a 9 a.m. co-host, is negotiating with the Comcast
Corp.-controlled network to replace Curry in July, the  New York 
Times said yesterday.  In her new role, Curry will report for all areas of NBC
News, including “Today,” “NBC Nightly News with  Brian
Williams ” and “Dateline.” She’ll also have a presence on
 MSNBC  and on NBC’s digital platforms, according to a statement
today. Curry will also anchor NBC News prime time specials.  Ratings Blame  Curry said in an  interview  with  USA Today  that she wasn’t
given enough time on the program to fix “kinks” that occurred
in her year as co-host. She told the newspaper that she isn’t to
blame for the ratings slip.  The NBC broadcast network generated $1.85 billion of
revenue in the first quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. “Today” brings in almost $500 million in annual
advertising revenue, the Times reported.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, is the largest U.S. cable
TV service and holds a controlling stake in  NBC Universal , which
includes the NBC network, Universal Pictures film studio, theme
parks and cable channels E!, USA and MSNBC.  Curry anchored “Dateline NBC” from May 2005 until
September 2011, according to her “Today” website biography.
She joined NBC News in August 1990 as a Chicago-based
correspondent.  Comcast was  unchanged  at $31.04 at the close in New York.
The shares have climbed 31 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  