-- Apple Says Riccio to Run Hardware as Bob Mansfield Retires
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-06-29T01:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/apple-says-head-of-hardware-engineering-mansfield-will-retire.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s most
valuable company, said Dan Riccio will take over as head of
hardware engineering to succeed Bob Mansfield, who plans to
retire in the coming months.  Riccio is currently the vice president in charge of iPad
hardware engineering, the Cupertino, California-based company
said today in a statement. Mansfield joined Apple in 1999
through an acquisition.  Mansfield worked closely with Apple design chief Jony Ive
to ensure that products, including the iPhone, iPad and Mac,
functioned as well as they looked. Riccio, a Mansfield
lieutenant, has worked closely on the iPad from the start, Apple
said. In two years, Apple has used the iPad to become the leader
in tablets, a market that DisplaySearch predicts will reach
$66.4 billion this year.  “Bob has been an instrumental part of our executive team,
leading the hardware engineering organization and overseeing the
team that has delivered dozens of breakthrough products over the
years,” said  Tim Cook , Apple’s chief executive officer, said in
the statement. “We are very sad to have him leave and hope he
enjoys every day of his retirement.”  Mansfield was often featured in Apple’s promotional videos,
talking about the company’s engineering accomplishments.  His retirement is the first major executive departure at
Apple since retail head  Ron Johnson  left last year to become CEO
of J.C. Penney Co. Johnson was replaced by  John Browett , the
former CEO of  Dixons Retail Plc. (DXNS)   Keeping Talent  In the case of Mansfield’s retirement, Cook is selecting an
internal replacement. Riccio, who joined in 1998, “has been a
key contributor to most of Apple’s hardware,” Apple said. He
earned a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering from the
 University of Massachusetts  at Amherst in 1986, Apple said.  One of Cook’s biggest challenges is retaining top
employees, especially many who have become rich as Apple’s share
price has risen, said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach
Inc. Mansfield filed in February to sell 30,000 Apple shares
worth $13.6 million, according to regulatory filings.  Promoting an internal candidate like Riccio brings a new
generation of leadership to the company, Wu said. Mansfield has
been in charge of Mac hardware engineering since 2005 and took
over supervision for Apple’s mobile devices in 2010.  “You need for the next generation of leaders to give them
incentives to stay and show a path for growth,” Wu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  