-- Arena’s Diet Pill May Spur Renewed Race From Drugmakers
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/arena-s-diet-pill-may-spur-renewed-race-from-drugmakers.html
Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA) ’s weight-
loss pill, the first cleared in the U.S. in 13 years, and an
expected rival are potential breakthroughs in the treatment of
obesity that may spur major drugmakers into the market.  Data showing an estimated 42 percent of the  U.S. population 
will be obese by 2030 has increased interest in finding
therapies that can win approval even with long-term
cardiovascular side effects that have raised regulatory
concerns. Companies will be watching sales of Arena’s Belviq and
 Vivus Inc. (VVUS) ’s Qnexa, slated for a Food and Drug Administration
decision by July 17, as barometers for potential deals.  Insurers probably won’t cover Arena’s pill until they see
greater benefits than the modest weight loss shown in clinical
trials, said  Edward Tenthoff , an analyst with Piper Jaffray &
Co. in  New York . Still, at a cost of $4 a day for the twice-
daily therapy, sales may hit $2 billion by 2020, he estimates.  “In every single board room, you have instructions from
the chairmen and chairwomen to the chief scientific officers to
‘Find me something like Arena with freedom to operate and
without the licensing agreements,’” Stephen Brozak, president
of WBB Securities in Clark,  New Jersey , said in a telephone
interview.  Arena, based in  San Diego , licensed its obesity medicine to
Tokyo-based  Eisai Co. (4523)  to sell in the U.S., potentially hampering
the company’s takeover prospects, Brozak said. Eisai’s so-called
standstill agreement with Arena in July 2010 prevents the
Japanese drugmaker from purchasing the biotechnology company,
unless someone else tries to first, said David Schull, president
of Russo Partners in New York, a public relations agency working
with Arena.  Going Alone  Mountain View , California-based Vivus plans to sell Qnexa
itself in the U.S., using 150 representatives to reach 25,000
doctors, Chief Financial Officer Timothy Morris said during a
presentation last week. Still, moving from  drug development  to
sales is a difficult transition and the biotechnology company
should look to be acquired, Simos Simeonidis, an analyst with
Cowen & Co., wrote yesterday.  “Qnexa is a drug with tangible blockbuster potential that
should be in the hands of big pharma,” Simeonidis wrote in a
note to clients. “With all its problems and issues, this is the
one thing big pharma has always done better than anyone: get
primary care docs to prescribe its products.”  Arena increased 29 percent to $11.39 at yesterday’s close
in New York. Vivus gained 7.4 percent to $28.33. Eisai gained
2.4 percent to 3,450 yen as of 10:55 a.m. Tokyo time, set for
the highest close since March 26, 2010.  Increasing Numbers  More than 78 million U.S. adults are  obese , according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.
Globally, about 500 million people are obese, as levels doubled
in every region of the world from 1980 to 2008, according to a
World Health Organization report last month. Obesity raises the
risks of diabetes, heart attacks and stroke, and costs the  U.S.
economy  an estimated $147 billion a year in medical expenses and
lost productivity, according to the CDC.  The last prescription  weight-loss  drug approved by the FDA
was Roche Holding AG’s Xenical in 1999. New therapies have been
stymied by safety issues, including Abbott Laboratories’ diet
pill Meridia, which was removed from U.S. shelves in October
2010 on concern about potential links to heart attacks and
strokes.  Arena’s drug, previously called lorcaserin, and Vivus’s
Qnexa each were rejected by the FDA in 2010. Regulators said
lorcaserin raised cancer concerns and Qnexa may have been tied
to  birth defects  and heart risks. In recent panel hearings,
advisers to the agency determined the benefits of the drugs
outweighed the risks.  Drug’s Effect  Arena’s treatment affects an area of the brain that helps a
person eat less and feel full after consuming small amounts of
food, the FDA said in a statement yesterday.  Arena and Eisai agreed to conduct six post-market studies
to assess the safety and efficacy of Belviq, including a long-
term cardiovascular outcomes trial to assess the potential for
major cardiac risks such as heart attack and stroke, the FDA
said. The pill works in a similar way to fenfluramine, part of
Wyeth’s fen-phen appetite-suppression drug combination pulled
from pharmacies 15 years ago when it was linked to heart valve
abnormalities.  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX) , which is also developing a
weight-loss pill called Contrave with  Osaka , Japan-based Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co., agreed in September to conduct a two-year
study of the medicine’s heart risks.  Once the pills are approved, they may be slowed getting to
the market for a Drug Enforcement Agency review based on their
potential for abuse.  DEA Review  The drug agency’s decision on Belviq may take four to six
months, Arena’s management said yesterday on a conference call.  Obesity is defined as having a body mass index of more than
30. A 6-foot-tall adult man weighing 221 pounds (100 kilograms)
or more is considered obese, as is an adult woman standing 5
feet, 6 inches tall weighing 186 pounds or more, according to
the U.S. National Institutes of Health.  Patients who tested Arena’s pill in three studies lost
about 3 percent more of their body weight than those who took a
placebo, FDA staff said in a May 8  report . People who took part
in trials on Vivus’s Qnexa lost 6.7 percent and 8.9 percent more
of their body weight on mid and high doses compared to those who
used a placebo, FDA staff said in a Feb. 20  report  on the drug.  U.S. drugmakers may not be put off by the limited success
of the clinical trials. Pharmaceutical companies lost patent
protection to products with $34 billion in annual sales last
year, including Pfizer Inc.’s best-selling cholesterol drug
Lipitor. Revenue at risk from generics will rise to $147 billion
by 2015, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “What will draw the pharmaceutical moths to the flame is
the revenue numbers,” Brozak said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  