-- Astellas Bladder Treatment Wins U.S. Approval for Sale
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-06-28T20:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/astellas-bladder-treatment-wins-u-s-approval-for-sale.html
Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503)  won approval
for its overactive bladder treatment aimed at an estimated 33
million Americans who suffer from the condition.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the drug,
mirabegron, to treat the need to frequently or involuntarily
urinate, the agency said today in a  statement . The drug enhances
bladder storage without affecting patients’ ability to urinate
like others on the market. Tokyo-based Astellas will market the
treatment as Myrbetriq, the FDA said.  Sales of the treatment would help Astellas,  Japan ’s third-
largest drugmaker, buffer a decline in revenue when its Vesicare
bladder-control medicine, which generated $1 billion in  sales  in
the last fiscal year, loses patent protection in 2015.  “Today’s approval provides a new treatment option for
patients with this debilitating condition, Victoria Kusiak,
deputy director of the Office of Drug Evaluation III in the
FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in a
statement.  Current treatments include  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Detrol,  Warner
Chilcott Plc (WCRX) ’s Enablex and Astellas’s Vesicare. Astellas expects
Myrbetriq to be supplied to pharmacies in the fourth quarter of
2012, the company said in a statement.  Side Effects  FDA staff expressed concern in an April 3  report  that the
treatment increased heart rates and  blood pressure  and was
associated with hypersensitivity reactions ranging from painful
rash to anemia. The drug also was linked to tests revealing
potential liver disease, a small number of urinary tract
infections and malignant tumors, FDA staff wrote. The reason the
medicine may lead to tumor formation is unknown, staff said.  Myrbetriq isn’t recommended for use in those with severe
uncontrolled high blood pressure, end-stage  kidney disease  or
severe liver impairment, the FDA said.  Clinical trials showed 25 milligram and 50 milligram doses
of Myrbetriq reduced the number of times patients urinated and
had wetting accidents in a 24-hour period, according to the FDA
statement. Patients on the 50-milligram pill also expelled more
urine, demonstrating the drug’s ability to improve the storage
capacity of the bladder, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  