-- Aussie, Kiwi Rise as EU Leaders Announce Debt Measures
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-06-29T06:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/aussie-kiwi-set-for-weekly-drop-on-europe-growth-woes.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars climbed, reversing earlier declines, after European
leaders announced measures to support funding for Spain,
boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie rose versus all of its 16 major
counterparts after European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy 
said euro-area leaders agreed to drop the condition that
emergency loans to Spanish banks give their governments
preferred creditor status. Officials also decided to relax
conditions on potential aid for  Italy . New Zealand’s currency
rallied as Asian stocks headed for the biggest gain this year.  “Anything that looks to be supportive of Spain and Italy
in raising funds is going to be positive,” said  Sacha Tihanyi ,
a strategist in  Hong Kong  at Scotiabank, a unit of  Bank of Nova
Scotia. (BNS)  “As long as these headlines continue to come out with
this sort of flavor, we can see the Aussie and kiwi get squeezed
a bit higher.”  The Australian dollar gained 1.5 percent to $1.0197 as of
4:07 p.m. in Sydney. It climbed 1.4 percent to 80.96 yen. New
Zealand’s currency, known as the kiwi, rose 1.2 percent to 79.81
U.S. cents and gained 1.2 percent to 63.36 yen.  Australia ’s 10-year government bond yield increased 11
basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 3.09 percent. New
Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates, climbed seven basis points to 2.74 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares added 2 percent, set
for the biggest gain since Dec. 21.  ‘Breakthrough’ Deal  Finance ministers from the 17-nation euro bloc will enact
today’s deal at a meeting on July 9, Van Rompuy said, calling
the accord a “breakthrough.”  The Australian dollar is set for a 4.7 percent advance
against the greenback this month, paring its decline this year
to 0.2 percent. New Zealand’s currency has strengthened 5.9
percent since May 31, the biggest gainer after the Mexican peso
among the greenback’s 16 major counterparts. It has gained 2.7
percent this year.  The kiwi weakened earlier versus the dollar and yen after
government data showed New Zealand home-building permits fell
7.1 percent last month following a revised 7.6 percent decline
in April, completing the first  consecutive slide  since March
2011.  The Aussie was poised for its biggest monthly advance since
October against its U.S. counterpart amid speculation the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia will refrain from lowering borrowing
costs at a meeting on July 3.  Rates Unchanged  Officials will probably  keep  the overnight cash rate target
at 3.5 percent, according to all economists in a Bloomberg News
 survey .  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see about a 68 percent chance for no change to the central
bank’s key rate. That’s up from a 33 percent probability seen on
June 22. They expect the RBA to cut the rate to a record 2.75
percent or lower by December, the data show.  “The market has taken a view that a move from the RBA in
July seems a lot less likely now,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
currency strategist in Singapore at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
“Expectations for a rate cut have been pared back, and that
certainly helps the currency trade more resiliently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  