-- Australian Premier’s Bid to Break Asylum-Seeker Deadlock Fails
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-06-28T09:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/australian-premier-s-bid-to-break-asylum-seeker-deadlock-fails.html
Australia’s Senate rejected a bill
backed by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  to process a tide of
asylum seekers, dealing a new blow to the minority government
leader unable to break a political stalemate over the refugees.  Lawmakers with the Greens joined the Liberal-National
opposition in rejecting proposals to allow asylum-seekers to be
processed in  Malaysia  and Nauru. Gillard ordered an independent
committee to find a solution after more refugees died yesterday.  “I understand how frustrating this is,” Gillard told
reporters in Canberra today. “All Australians understand,
following the period in which we’ve seen the loss of so many
lives, that we need effective action to ensure that we deter
people from getting on boats and risking their lives at sea.”  The parliamentary defeat is another setback for  Australia ’s
first female prime minister, seeking to address the arrival of
refugees who pay smugglers in Indonesia to ferry them in
overcrowded boats to Australia. Gillard, trailing in opinion
polls, faces elections due by November 2013.  Four people were presumed dead and 130 rescued after a boat
sank yesterday, according to Australian Customs. There have been
at least four other fatal incidents of human trafficking since
2010, including on June 21 when about 90 people may have died
after a boat capsized near Christmas Island, an Australian
territory used as an immigration detention center.  Senate Opposition  “Australians are getting fed up with the endless
pontificating of politicians and party opportunism in the face
of tragedy,” Greg Barns, the president of the Australian
Lawyers Alliance, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Two years after ousting her predecessor  Kevin Rudd ,
Gillard’s  Labor party  is slipping further behind the Liberal-
National opposition in opinion polls.  Labor’s primary vote fell 1 percentage point to 30 percent,
while support for the coalition increased 2 points to 46
percent, according to a Newspoll survey published in the
Australian newspaper June 25.  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott  said his coalition wouldn’t
support the laws because they included the option of creating a
processing center in Malaysia, which isn’t a signatory to the
 United Nations Refugee Convention .  “We do not have a solution, but a stalemate,” Abbott told
reporters in Canberra after the vote. “The Australian public is
entitled to feel badly let down by the government. The prime
minister goes into the parliamentary recess without an effective
policy and the boats keep coming.”  Nauru Center  Abbott’s coalition wants a processing center re-established
in Nauru, an island nation in the South Pacific with about
10,000 residents that received aid in return for processing
refugees bound for Australia under former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s so-called Pacific Solution. He said yesterday turning
back boats from Australian waters was acceptable in some
circumstances.  Ausralia’s lower house approved the legislation yesterday.
The refugees are often from war-torn nations in the  Middle East 
and  South Asia .  In a June 22 statement the UN Refugee agency called on
Australia and other countries in the region “to provide safer
and more secure options for people to find protection other than
through these dangerous and exploitative boat journeys.”  Gillard had earlier proposed an arrangement agreed to by
Malaysia under which Australia would send about 800 asylum
seekers to the nation in return for accepting 4,000 people
verified as legitimate refugees by the UN. That plan failed in
parliament in October, after the  High Court  in August declared
it illegal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  