-- Banco BMG Bonds Rally on Takeover Speculation: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-06-28T20:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/banco-bmg-bonds-rally-on-takeover-speculation-sao-paulo-mover.html
Banco BMG SA dollar bonds rallied to
a three-month high after a news report that  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) 
plans to buy the payroll lender.  Banco BMG’s dollar bonds due in 2018 rose 7 cents to 90
cents on the dollar at 5:29 p.m. in Sao Paulo, after earlier
touching 93 cents, the highest since March 14, according to
Trace, the bond price-reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The yield dropped 184 basis points, or
1.84 percentage point, to 10.33 percent.  O Estado de S.Paulo columnist Sonia Racy reported today on
the newspaper’s website that Bradesco is buying BMG, without
saying where she obtained the information.  “Right now the bond price is very low for what it should
be if Bradesco makes the acquisition,” Luiz Campos, a partner
at Dinosaur Securities LLC, said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “BMG
bonds will converge toward the yields of Bradesco.”  Clive Botelho, BMG’s chief financial officer, said the bank
doesn’t comment on rumors. A press official for Bradesco in Sao
Paulo, who asked not to be identified in accordance with company
policy, declined to comment.  Bradesco  shares  retreated 0.9 percent to 29.33 reais today
in Sao Paulo. Yields on Bradesco’s subordinated dollar bonds due
in 2022 rose four basis points to 5.55 percent.  Banco BMG’s borrowing costs surged to a record this month
after  Brazil ’s central bank took control of smaller peer Banco
Cruzeiro do Sul SA, citing “serious” financial violations at
the bank. The takeover of Cruzeiro intensified investor concern
that limited access to long-term funding and increasing
competition from larger rivals will erode profitability for the
industry.  Funding Pressure  “The funding profile of these banks in the payroll segment
has been under pressure even before what happened with
Cruzeiro,” Cynthia Cohenfreue, an analyst with  Standard &
Poor’s , said from  Buenos Aires . “This adds to the pressure.”  Regulators seized Cruzeiro do Sul 17 months after the
bailout of midsize lender Banco Panamericano SA amid a fraud
investigation of the bank.  Payroll loans are similar to payday loans in the U.S.,
except the Brazilian government allows banks to deduct the
payments directly from payroll and pension payments before
consumers ever see their checks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  