-- Banker to the Bankers Knows the Numbers Are Lying
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-06-28T22:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/banker-to-the-bankers-knows-the-numbers-are-lying.html
The  Bank for International
Settlements , which acts as a bank for the world’s central banks,
should know fudged numbers when it sees them. What may come as a
surprise is how openly it has been discussing the problem of
bogus balance sheets at large financial companies.  “The financial sector needs to recognize losses and
recapitalize,” the Basel, Switzerland-based institution said in
its latest  annual report , released this week. “As we have urged
in previous reports, banks must adjust balance sheets to
accurately reflect the value of assets.” The implication is
that many banks are showing inaccurate numbers now.  Unfortunately the BIS’s suggested approach is almost all
carrot and no stick. “The challenge is to provide incentives
for banks and other credit suppliers to recognize losses fully
and write down debt,” the report said. “Supporting this
process may well call for the use of public sector balance
sheets.”  So there you have it. More than four years after the
financial crisis began, it’s so widely accepted that many of the
world’s banks are burying losses and overstating their asset
values, even the  Bank for International Settlements  is saying so
-- in writing. (The BIS’s  board  includes Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  and  Mario Draghi , president of the
 European Central Bank .) It fully expects taxpayers to pick up
the tab should the need arise, too.  No Change  In this respect, little has changed since the near-meltdown
of 2008, especially in Europe. Spain has requested 100 billion
euros ($125 billion) to rescue its ailing banks.  Italy , perhaps
the next in line for a European Union bailout, is weighing plans
to boost capital at some of the country’s lenders through sales
of their bonds to the government.  Those bank rescues almost certainly won’t be the last. All
but four of the 28 companies in the  Euro Stoxx Banks Index (SX7E)  trade
for less than half of their common shareholder equity, which
tells you investors don’t believe the companies’ asset values.
While it may be true that the accounting standards are weak, the
bigger problem is they are often  not followed  or  enforced .  Government bailouts might be easier for the world’s
taxpayers to swallow if banks were required to be truthful about
their finances, as part of their standard operating procedure.
Nowhere in its report did the BIS discuss the role of  law
enforcement , although the last time I checked it’s against the
law in most developed countries to knowingly publish false
financial statements. There have been few fraud prosecutions
against executives from large financial institutions in recent
years, in the U.S. or elsewhere, much to citizens’ outrage.  In the BIS’s eyes, it seems that it’s enough to merely
encourage or incentivize banks to come clean about their losses,
by dangling the prospect of additional taxpayer support before
them. For example, on the subject of how to deal with overvalued
 mortgage loans : “One frequently used option is to set up an
 asset management company  to buy up loans at attractive prices,
i.e., slightly above current market valuations,” the BIS report
said. “Alternatively, authorities can subsidize lenders or
guarantee the restructured debt when lenders renegotiate
loans.”  The BIS report got this much right: The lack of
transparency and credibility in banks’ balance sheets fuels a
vicious cycle. When investors can’t trust the books, lenders
can’t raise capital and may have to fall back on their home
countries’ governments for help. This further pressures
sovereign finances, which in turn weakens the banks even more.
The contagion spreads across borders. There is no clear end in
sight.  Propping Up  To date, the task of propping up the economies in  Europe 
and the U.S. has fallen largely to central banks. As the BIS
wrote,  easy-money  policies also can make balance-sheet repairs
harder to accomplish.  “Prolonged unusually accommodative monetary conditions
mask underlying balance sheet problems and reduce incentives to
address them head-on,” the report said. “Similarly, large-
scale asset purchases and unconditional liquidity support
together with very low  interest rates  can undermine the
perceived need to deal with banks’ impaired assets.”  At some point, the cycle will break, only nobody knows
when. This you can count on: It will take more than subtle
inducements to make banks fess up to all their losses.
Prosecutors must have a role. There’s nothing like the threat of
a courtroom trial to focus a bank executive’s mind. The risk
just has to be real.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  John Roberts saved
Obamacare  and why Mexico’s next president  must combat its
economic cartels ; Stephen L. Carter in praise of  Supreme Court
secrecy ;  Noah Feldman  on  Roberts’s restraint ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 misunderstanding the court ’s decision;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
whether  women can have it all ; William Pesek on  Myanmar’s
economic development ;  Steven Greenhut  on using eminent domain to
 take over foreclosed homes .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  