-- Repo Rate Curve Inversion Shows Increase in European Bank Stress
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-06-28T10:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/banks-dollar-funding-costs-decline-to-four-day-low-in-europe.html
The market for borrowing and lending
European  government bonds , the so-called repo market, is showing
increased stress in bank funding as short-term rates exceed
longer-term costs by the most since December.  The rate for a one-day euro repurchase agreement, in which
a bank or investor borrows money while putting up collateral, is
19 basis points, or 0.19 percentage point, compared with 10
basis points on three-month contracts, European Banking
Federation data show. The so-called  inverted curve  signals
strains in bank financing.  The nine basis-point  difference  between the one-day and
three-month repo rates is the widest since Dec. 15, Brussels-
based EBF data show. Short-term financing rates are being pushed
higher as banks seek top-rated securities for collateral as
 Europe ’s debt crisis continues to roil bond markets.  The cost for European banks to borrow in dollars held at
the highest since June 4. The three-month cross-currency  basis
swap , the rate banks pay to convert euro interest payments into
dollars, was little changed at 58 basis points below the euro
interbank offered rate at 11:30 a.m. in  London .  The one-year basis swap was at 51 basis points below
Euribor from minus 52.5 yesterday.  Three-month Euribor rose for the first time in 10 days to
0.653 percent from 0.652 the day before. One-week Euribor fell
to 0.321 percent from 0.323 percent. Euribor is the rate  banks 
say they see each other lending in euros and is derived from a
survey by the European Banking Federation.  FRA/OIS  Prices in the forward market for three-month Euribor
relative to a gauge of overnight borrowing costs or overnight
indexed swaps -- known as the  FRA/OIS spread  -- were little
changed at 28 basis points. The Euribor/Eonia OIS spread was 41
basis points from 43.  The Eonia OIS swap, an estimate of average overnight
borrowing costs over the next three months, was little changed
at 23 basis points. The measure held below the  European Central
Bank ’s deposit rate of 25 basis points for the ninth day.  Lenders increased  overnight deposits  at the Frankfurt-based
ECB yesterday, placing 773 billion euros ($966 billion) from 747
billion euros the day before.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  