-- Barclays Tumbles as Libor Fine Sparks Lawsuit Speculation
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-06-28T11:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/barclays-tumbles-as-libor-fine-sparks-lawsuit-speculation.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-
largest bank by assets, slid the most in three years after its
record fines yesterday for falsifying London interbank offered
rate submissions sparked speculation lawsuits will follow.  The shares  fell  as much as 18 percent as U.K. lawmakers
called on Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond to resign.
Barclays stock was down 28.7 pence to 167.4 pence at 12:55 p.m.
in London. It was the biggest decline since March 2009.  The London-based bank was fined 290 million pounds ($451
million) yesterday by the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority,
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and U.S.
Department of Justice. The settlements are the first in an
international investigation into whether banks tried to
manipulate Libor.  Matthew Oakeshott, a member of the Liberal Democrat
party who sits in Parliament’s upper House of Lords, said
Diamond should resign. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
today Barclays has questions to answer about the Libor probes.  “We expect that the cost of lawsuits related to Libor
manipulation will dwarf the fines imposed on Barclays,” said
Sandy Chen, a banks analyst at Cenkos Securities Plc in London,
who is “penciling in multi-year provisions that could run into
the billions.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Citigroup Inc., UBS AG,
 ICAP Plc (IAP) , Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Deutsche Bank AG are
among the other firms being probed as regulators worldwide
investigate how Libor is set.  RBS  shares  slumped 13 percent, ICAP dropped 3.3 percent and
Lloyds slid 7 percent.  -- With assistance from Kitty Donaldson and Gonzalo Vina in
London. Editors:  Keith Campbell , Jon Menon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  