-- Barclays Libor Fine Sends Stocks Lower as Probes Widen
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u ,   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-06-28T14:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/barclays-451-million-libor-fine-paves-the-way-for-competitors.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s record $451 million
fines for interest rate manipulation sent bank shares plunging
as U.S. and U.K. authorities pursue sanctions in a global
investigation of more than a dozen lenders.  Barclays  shares  slid as much as 18 percent. U.K. Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  called for a criminal probe amid
speculation that lenders could face billions of dollars in
lawsuits, while Prime Minister  David Cameron  called on Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  to show accountability.  Traders at the U.K.’s second-biggest bank by assets
routinely coordinated with counterparts from at least four other
banks in an attempt to move interest rate benchmarks, according
to documents released yesterday by the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, the U.S. Justice Department and the U.K.
Financial Services Authority. The benchmarks included the  London 
interbank offered rate, or Libor, and Euribor, a related euro-
denominated rate. In both cases, the goal was to generate
profits on derivatives held by the banks, the agencies said.  “It’s going to put a great deal of pressure on the other
banks to settle because somebody has set a precedent,” said
Jerry W. Markham, a law professor at  Florida International
University  and a former chief counsel in the CFTC’s enforcement
division.  The  case  offers the most detailed public account yet of
conduct that prompted regulators and criminal authorities
spanning three continents to investigate whether traders
colluded to rig interest rates and banks sought to bolster their
perceived stability by hiding their true costs of borrowing
during the financial turmoil of 2008.  Record Fines  At stake is the credibility of the decades-old Libor system
and the securities and loan products that rely on it, ranging
from an estimated $554 trillion in interest-rate contracts,
according to the FSA, to mortgage and credit-card payments made
by consumers around the world.  Barclays pledged to pay $200 million to the CFTC, $160
million to the  Justice Department , and 59.5 million pounds ($91
million) to the FSA. The fines were the largest in the history
of the CFTC and FSA.  “We expect that the cost of lawsuits related to Libor
manipulation will dwarf the fines imposed on Barclays,” said
Sandy Chen, a banks analyst at Cenkos Securities Plc in London,
who is “penciling in multi-year provisions that could run into
the billions.”  Barclays tumbled  15 percent to 167.4 pence at 3:19 p.m. in
London as Diamond came under pressure from lawmakers.  Fraud Office  Prosecutors at the U.K. Serious Fraud Office are now
investigating the case, Osborne told lawmakers in Parliament
today, calling the matter “a shocking indictment of the culture
of banks.” Matthew Oakeshott, a member of the Liberal Democrat
party who sits in Parliament’s upper House of Lords, called on
Diamond to step down.  “I’m determined we learn all the lessons from what has
happened at Barclays,” Cameron told reporters as he arrived in
Brussels for a European Union summit. “People have to take
responsibility for the actions and show how they’re going to be
accountable for those actions. It’s very important that goes all
the way to the top of the organization.”  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
 ICAP Plc (IAP) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Deutsche Bank AG are
among the firms regulators are investigating. A total of 18
banks are surveyed as part of the process of determining Libor
and related rates.  RBS shares  slid as much as 14 percent today, Lloyds fell as
much as 7.8 percent and ICAP dropped as much as 4.7 percent. UBS
was down as much as 3.8 percent, and Deutsche Bank declined as
much as 5.5 percent.  Assisting Probe  Barclays is assisting the investigation into other firms
and individuals, and was the first to provide “extensive and
meaningful cooperation,” the Justice Department said. Zurich-
based UBS last year disclosed it had opened its doors to U.S.
antitrust investigators in exchange for immunity.  “Over the next relatively short period of time, others are
going to have to decide whether either to settle or to fight,”
Daniel Waldman, a Washington-based partner at Arnold & Porter
LLP and former CFTC general counsel, said in a telephone
interview.  Libor is derived from a  survey  of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London. Lenders
are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from each other
for 15 different periods, from overnight to one year, in
currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After
a set number of quotes are excluded, those remaining are
averaged and published for each currency by the BBA before noon.  Chinese Walls  Regulators have focused on the lack of so-called Chinese
walls to separate traders from employees making interest-rate
submissions on behalf of their banks. They are also looking into
whether the banks’ proprietary trading desks exploited the
information they had about the direction of Libor to trade
interest-rate derivatives.  Since March, a group of U.K. bankers and regulators has
been reviewing how Libor is set. The group, established by the
BBA, has so far resisted calls to overhaul the rate because
structural changes risk invalidating trillions of dollars of
contracts.  Joseph Eyre , an FSA spokesman, said “the BBA’s review is
continuing and we will consider any recommendations arising from
that exercise.”  Attempts to influence the rates began several years before
the financial crisis, regulators said. Between 2005 and 2008,
Barclays’s euro swaps traders  coordinated  with counterparts at
other banks in attempts to manipulate Euribor, according to the
CFTC and Justice Department.  Daily Discussions  Barclays’s employees overseeing Euribor submissions
routinely accommodated requests that benefited trading positions
at other banks, which were sometimes passed along by former
Barclays traders who had left for other financial institutions.  One senior euro swaps trader employed at the time by
Barclays spoke daily with traders at other banks about how to
change the official Euribor rate in a manner that benefited
trading positions, the CFTC said. The agency didn’t name the
other banks.  On Nov. 10, 2006, for example, a trader at a bank
identified by the CFTC as “bank A” asked the Barclays trader
to request a low one-month Euribor setting at Barclays and at a
second bank, “bank B.” The Barclays trader made a request to
bank B and then sent a message to the Barclays employee
responsible for Euribor submissions: “hi [senior Euribor
submitter]. I know you can help. On Monday we have a huge fixing
on the 1m and we would like it to be low if possible. Tx for
your kind help.”  ‘Low Fixing’  The employee responded: “of course we will put in a low
fixing.”  A separate instance occurred over a fourth-month period
from at least December 2006 until March 2007 during which the
senior Euro swaps trader tried to align trading strategies among
multiple banks to influence the three-month Euribor fixing on
March 19, 2007, according to the CFTC.  Barclays employees responsible for submitting rates
regularly followed the requests of the bank’s derivatives
traders. Of 111 requests analyzed by the FSA and made by traders
between January 2006 and August 2007 relating to U.S. dollar
Libor, only 14 percent of submissions were inconsistent with the
requests. Of 42 requests analyzed by the FSA and made by traders
from February 2006 to June 2008 relating to Euribor, only 12
percent were inconsistent with requests.  Market Perceptions  While regulators detailed the attempts to manipulate the
rate, they stopped short of claiming the traders were
successful. That may prove a stumbling block for private
lawsuits claiming that holders of securities tied to Libor were
harmed by the conduct, Markham said.  “That really doesn’t help the private litigant so much,”
Markham said of Barclays’s settlement. “It doesn’t really give
them a road map to say, ‘OK, this is why the price is artificial
and here is why they caused it.”’  During the 2008 financial crisis, senior managers at
Barclays instructed employees to report artificially low
borrowing costs to avoid appearing weaker than its competitors,
regulators said.  In October 2008, a Barclays employee had a conversation
with the  Bank of England  about market and media perceptions
related to Barclays’s Libor submissions, which had generally
been higher than those of competitors. In reaction to the
external pressure and the discussion with the central bank,
Barclays believed it needed to lower its Libor submissions, the
CFTC said.  ‘Within the Pack’  A senior Barclays manager then instructed employees to
lower Libor submissions for dollars and sterling so the bank
would be “within the pack,” or in line with rates reported by
other banks, the CFTC said.  According to the U.K.’s FSA, the Bank of England didn’t
instruct Barclays to lower its Libor submissions during the
phone call. Instead, a “misunderstanding or miscommunication”
occurred within Barclays as the substance of the conversation
was relayed down the chain of command, the FSA said.  The Barclays settlement helps set a benchmark for what
other banks should expect to pay and do to resolve related
claims, Markham said.  “Nobody wants to go first, but once they do it becomes
easier for the other parties,” said Markham, who added that
most regulatory cases are settled, not contested in court.
“It’s become the cost of doing business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  