-- Barclays Told to Address Libor Probe Impact on 2010 Case
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-29T05:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/barclays-told-to-address-libor-probe-impact-on-2010-case.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  and the U.S.  Justice
Department  were ordered by a federal judge to explain how the
bank’s settlement of allegations involving its manipulation of
Libor should effect a 2010 deferred prosecution agreement.  U.S. District Judge  Emmet Sullivan  in  Washington  yesterday
issued the one-sentence order calling for a joint report to be
filed by July 11. The order comes three days after lawyers for
both parties were in his courtroom for an update on the 2010
agreement, which involves a $298 million settlement with the
U.S. over illegal dealings with such nations as Sudan and  Iran .  Barclays Plc was on June 27 fined 290 million pounds
($451.4 million), the largest penalties ever imposed by
regulators in the U.S. and U.K., after admitting it submitted
false London and euro interbank offered rates. Part of that fine
went to the Justice Department, which agreed not to prosecute
the bank for what it called “illegal conduct.”  Mark Lane , a spokesman for London-based Barclays, declined
to comment on the order. Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department
spokeswoman, said she couldn’t immediately comment yesterday.  Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets, must
comply with the terms of the deferred prosecution agreement,
which was approved by the judge on Aug. 18, 2010, until Aug. 16.
Such agreements allow a company to avoid a criminal conviction
as long as the terms of the deal are met.  ‘Federal Crime’  The accord states that if the Justice Department determines
that Barclays has committed “any federal crime,” the bank may
be subject to prosecution for facilitating money transfers that
violated U.S. sanctions against Cuba,  Libya ,  Burma , Sudan and
Iran from about March 1995 through September 2006.  In a report to Sullivan on May 30, the department said
Barclays was in compliance with the agreement.  “To date, the  United States  is not aware that Barclays has
committed any federal crime during the term of the DPA,” Daniel
Marposon, a trial attorney in the Justice Department’s asset
forfeiture and money laundering section, wrote in the report.  In its own May 30 report, Barclays said it was “aware of
no determination by the United States that it has committed any
federal crime during the term of the DPA.”  A day before approving the Barclays accord two years ago,
Sullivan called it a “sweetheart deal” and demanded more
information from the bank and prosecutors. He criticized the
Justice Department for failing to go after individuals and
punishing only the company’s shareholders.  In his order approving the agreement, the judge said both
sides were required to file status reports that “shall inform
the court what progress has been made under the terms” of the
agreement.  In particular, Sullivan said he wanted to know what steps
Barclays was taking to make its current and former officers,
consultants, and employees available to federal investigators
and the progress of implementing compliance procedures.  The case is U.S. v. Barclays Bank Plc., 10-cr-00218, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 