-- Barnier Seeks Shareholder Power Over Bonuses in Basel Law Deal
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-06-28T19:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/barnier-seeks-shareholder-power-over-bonuses-in-basel-law-deal.html
The European Union should force
shareholders to set limits on  bankers (SX7P) ’ bonuses as part of a
compromise on a draft Basel capital law, the bloc’s financial
services chief said.  Under the plan, a lender’s investors would be handed
responsibility for fixing a maximum ratio between executives’
bonuses and fixed pay,  Michel Barnier , the EU’s commissioner for
the internal market, said in an interview with Bloomberg News
today. The idea has been discussed by the European Parliament
and national officials during negotiations on the Basel
legislation, Barnier said.  “My preferred approach is to place greater responsibility
in the hands of shareholders, who would have to vote -- it would
be obligatory -- on the ratio between fixed and variable pay,”
Barnier said. “I would hope that we can find a compromise on
that basis.”  Bankers are facing a backlash from European Union
lawmakers determined to cut variable pay as part of a quest to
reshape lenders as utilities rather than money-making machines.
The parliament voted last month to amend the draft Basel bank
capital law so that it would ban bonuses that exceed fixed
salaries.  The regulatory push comes as public outrage and shareholder
rebellions have forced some banks, including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , to retreat from their initial pay plans.  Corporate Pay  The draft Basel law must be approved by governments in the
27-nation EU and the parliament before it can enter into force.
The assembly has faced resistance from some governments to the
proposed one-to-one cap for bonuses against fixed pay, with
authorities concerned that the measure could damage the EU’s
competitiveness and lead banks to increase the fixed pay they
offer their executives.  Barnier said that, in addition to the provisions in the
Basel law, he will present plans in October to hand a more
general obligation to shareholder general assemblies to vote on
corporate pay. These proposals will also include boosting
transparency of companies’ pay policies, he said.  Separately, Barnier said that he would unveil a draft law
on July 3 to prevent Madoff-style fraud by increasing the
responsibility placed on depositaries used by retail investment
funds.  “Depositaries are going to really have an incentive to pay
a lot of attention to the information they provide and the
services they offer,” he said.  The draft law would also “introduce rules on the
remuneration policies of investment funds, so that they don’t
take the excessive risks that we have seen in the banking
system,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  