-- Barnier Seeks Fast Deals on Cornerstone Rules for Banking Union
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-06-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/barnier-seeks-fast-deals-on-cornerstone-rules-for-banking-union.html
European Union Financial Services
Commissioner  Michel Barnier  called on the bloc to broker deals
on draft financial regulations in the coming weeks as a
“cornerstone” of the banking union that EU leaders seek to
secure the long-term future of the euro.  Barnier also said decisions on whether the London-based
European Banking Authority or the Frankfurt-based  European
Central Bank  should gain some enhanced supervisory powers over
lenders may hinge on how many of the bloc’s 27 nations agree to
further pool their bank-oversight powers.  The adoption of proposals that the commissioner has made on
bank capital requirements, coordination of deposit guarantee
programs and the winding-down of failing banks is a
“precondition” for the creation of a banking union, Barnier
said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg News in Brussels.
The draft laws should be settled “in the weeks to come, or in
the case of crisis resolution before the end of the year.”  European leaders gathered in Brussels yesterday for a two-
day summit in their latest attempt to overcome the financial
crisis against a background of borrowing costs near euro-era
records for Italy and  Spain . ECB President  Mario Draghi  and
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  are among those
urging EU nations to bolster investor confidence by pooling
their financial backstops for failing banks and their
supervision of lenders.  Banking Supervision  A report for the summit prepared by EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  calls for steps to be taken “as soon as possible” to
create a European banking supervision system.  Depending on the outcome of the summit, the commission will
present plans for extra EU supervision of banks, as well as for
“the mutualization of deposit guarantee funds and resolution
funds,” by year end, Barnier said.  “This concept, this step of integration, is only possible
if we have laid the foundations” by adopting existing
proposals, he said.  Should all 27 EU countries sign up for the banking union
plans, then the enhanced power for the EU to supervise lenders
should “probably” be handed to the EBA, Barnier said.  The authority, which began work last year, was set up as
part of the EU’s response to the crisis that followed the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. It coordinates the
work of national regulators across the EU, and has some power to
resolve disputes between them.  EBA’s Mandate  The decision on where to place enhanced supervisory power
becomes trickier if individual countries opt out of banking
union, Barnier said, in part because the ECB decides monetary
policy for the 17 countries of the euro area, and in part
because of other aspects of the EBA’s mandate.  “If you are fewer than 27 then there is an issue to
resolve with the EBA, if you are more than 17 then there is an
issue to resolve with the ECB,” he said.  “This is why there are a range of possible models, and why
we need some weeks or months to work on this”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  