-- Batista’s Billions Wilt on Missed OGX Goal in Brazil
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   A l e x   C u a d r o s
-- 2012-06-28T21:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/batista-s-billions-wilt-on-missed-ogx-goal-in-brazil.html
Eike Batista , who energized
Brazilian markets by taking six startups public since 2006, is
no longer among the world’s 20 richest people after shares of
his commodity empire plunged, wiping $3.8 billion from his
fortune.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, Batista’s biggest
company, lost 40 percent of its value in the past two days after
cutting production targets at its first two  oil wells  by as much
as 75 percent. The drop dragged down Batista’s mining, logistics
and shipbuilding companies on concern the enterprises, some of
which rely on OGX for revenue, will scale back targets as well.  “People are not confident any more in the speeches from
Eike’s companies,” said Dany Rappaport, who manages 250 million
reais ($120 million) at Investport in Sao Paulo. “Investors are
avoiding any kinds of surprises.”  Batista, 55, emerged as Brazil’s richest man by building an
empire of interlinked oil, mining, shipbuilding and logistics
companies to harness the nation’s natural resources. His fortune
peaked at $34.5 billion in March, putting him in eighth place on
the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  after he sold a 5.6 percent
stake in his EBX Group Co. holding company. As of today’s close,
Batista, who says he aspires to surpass Mexico’s  Carlos Slim  as
the world’s wealthiest person by 2015, ranked 27th with a net
worth of $19.6 billion.  Rethinking Ratings  OGX’s tumble belied its ranking as the second-most
recommended stock by analysts in Brazil. Before yesterday, the
company had a consensus analyst rating of 4.5, the highest of
any company in Brazil after iron-ore producer  Vale SA. (VALE)  The
rating, which is the average within a range of one to five, with
five being the highest, fell to 4.39. The ratio of borrowed
stock in OGX, an indication of short selling, exceeds 7.7
percent of floating equity, the most of any energy company in
 Latin America , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Analysts who have buy ratings are going to have to
rethink,” said Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps manage about $100
million in stocks and bonds at Leme Investment Fund in
Florianopolis, Brazil. “There’s more pessimism about
production.”  Commodities tumbled into a  bear market  June 21 as U.S.
reports on manufacturing, jobless claims and home sales signaled
a faltering economy after the  Federal Reserve  refrained from
announcing another round of stimulus. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index of 24 raw materials has dropped 21 percent from this
year’s highest close of 715.52 on Feb. 24.  In an e-mailed statement, EBX responded to questions on the
outlook for Batista’s empire by saying its companies have enough
cash to continue fulfilling their business plans.  Short-term Targets  OGX fell 2.12 reais to 6.25 reais in Sao Paulo trading
yesterday, the biggest decline on the benchmark Bovespa index.
Logistics company  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)  and mining company  MMX
Mineracao (MMXM3)  & Metalicos SA rounded out the top three losers with
7.5 percent and 6.9 percent declines, respectively. Ship builder
 OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  fell 13 percent to 10.50 reais.  OGX lost a further 19 percent today, while OSX dropped 11
percent, LLX slid 8.1 percent and MMX dropped 17 percent. CCX
Carvao da Colombia SA, Batista’s coal unit, slumped 8.8 percent.  OGX’s tumble made the company a bargain even if it only
delivers on a third of the 1.38 million barrels a day it has
promised to produce in 2019, said Rogerio Freitas, a partner at
Rio de Janeiro-based hedge fund Teorica Investimentos.  OGX is focusing on short-term equipment delivery targets,
Chief Financial Officer Roberto Monteiro said yesterday on the
call, declining to comment on long-term output goals.  “The key word here is trust,” Lucas Brendler, who helps
manage about 7 billion reais ($3.4 billion), including OGX
shares, at Banco Geracao Futuro de Investimento, said by
telephone from  Porto Alegre , Brazil. “The market is asking if
the numbers for the other businesses are trustworthy.”  ‘Exaggerated’ Drop  “The fall in the market was a little exaggerated,”
Freitas said in a telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .
“There’s a large discrepancy between the value of the company
and the implicit value of the company.”  Teorica bought OGX shares yesterday, marking its first
holdings of the company in “a long time,” he said. The fund
doesn’t hold any other Batista companies.  OGX has had over 90 percent success exploring for oil in
the Campos Basin where its biggest  oil fields  are, more than the
59 percent success rate in 2011 trumpeted by  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-run oil company.  “Eike didn’t really manage to deliver on the promises,”
said Brugger, who doesn’t own any OGX shares. “We prefer
companies that have in fact been producing for a while with
operational results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Jessica Brice in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net 
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  