-- Big Banks to Tell Regulators How to Dismember Their Corpses
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-28T21:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/big-banks-to-tell-u-s-regulators-how-to-dismember-their-corpses.html
Nine of the biggest banks, including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. , are set to
deliver plans this week for how their businesses could be
unwound after a collapse as part of a U.S. government effort to
show no financial firm is too big to fail.  Lenders with more than $250 billion in nonbank assets must
deliver so-called living wills -- liquidation plans expected to
run into thousands of pages -- by July 1 to banking regulators
charged with determining whether they are credible.  The plans, mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial-
regulation overhaul, are meant to give the government a way to
shutter complex financial firms without cost to taxpayers or
threat to the broader economy. In the run-up to the submission
deadline, they have become the focus of a debate between some
who think they should be used to limit banks’ size and others
who see such intervention as inappropriate.  “At the end of the day, this isn’t going to become the
hidden tool to break up JPMorgan and Bank of America,” said
 Jaret Seiberg , a senior policy analyst at Guggenheim Securities’
Washington Research Group. “To take that radical of a step,
you’re going to need something more concrete than disputes over
how credible a living will was written.”  Shutdown Strategies  Dodd-Frank requires banks to provide shutdown strategies
for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Federal Reserve
as a safeguard against a repeat of the market turmoil and U.S.
bailouts that followed the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. The living wills rule allows regulators
to force restructurings and asset sales at companies whose plans
aren’t based on reliable information and wouldn’t allow the
company to dismantle itself in an orderly way.  “I think they should use the authority,” former FDIC
Chairman  Sheila Bair  said in an interview last week. “How well
they use it is going to be up to them.”  That view is opposed by  Thomas Hoenig , the former Federal
Reserve Bank of Kansas City president who now serves on the
FDIC’s board. Instead of forcing lenders to restructure one-by-
one, the government should revive the separation of investment
and commercial banking that was discarded with the 1999 repeal
of the Glass-Steagall Act, Hoenig said in a June 26 Bloomberg
radio interview.  Judging each bank’s credibility is “picking winners and
losers based on what they present to you, and I think it is
fraught with problems,” he said.  Banks are wondering: “Are regulators actually going to
dictate what our legal or organizational structure looks like?”
according to John Lane, a former FDIC deputy division chief who
worked on the agency’s Dodd-Frank powers.  Public Summaries  The living wills must identify the legal relationships
between units in each bank, its contractual connections, what
its funding needs are, its most vital employees, how assets will
be valued in a failure and what should be sold off to raise
cash. Shorter public summaries of the plans will be posted
describing each bank’s ideas.  “It’s a whole different ballgame that they’ve never had to
deal with before,” said Mitchell Glassman, a former FDIC
division head. “What happens when the worst case happens?”  Glassman, now a director at Deloitte Consulting LLP in
Washington, said he expects “some novel approaches and some
sophisticated thinking” in the plans and said they will act as
templates for the rest of the industry.  ‘Flying Blind’  “I think a lot of boards recognize that they were kind of
flying blind, because they didn’t realize where the risk was
coming from because the interconnections were not known,” said
Lane, now a special adviser at Promontory Financial Group LLC in
Washington. “You might as well build this into your governance
process, because it’s going to help you when the stress comes.
And it will come.”  Whether the plans are ultimately used to force changes at
banks, findings of non-credibility probably won’t come from the
FDIC in the first year, according to Jim Wigand, chief of
agency’s the Office of Complex Financial Institutions.  “It will be in the second round where there’s likely to be
more of an engaged dialogue about what actions are necessary to
remedy deficient plans,” Wigand said in a May interview.  JPMorgan’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
told lawmakers this month that his bank’s plan “has been
drafted and circulated and given to some of the regulators.”  “We have to allow our big institutions to fail,” Dimon
told members of Congress at hearings on his bank’s $2 billion
trading loss. “People have to believe it’s real,” and federal
regulators must work with overseas counterparts to ensure plans
aren’t undermined by cross-border complications, he said.  Supplemental Information  Though the living wills and the FDIC’s new authority to
dismantle failing systemically important financial institutions
aren’t in the same sections of Dodd-Frank, the agency sees the
wills as information that can be used to bolster breakup plans
already on hand for the largest banks.  Acting FDIC Chairman Martin Gruenberg has drawn praise for
recent speeches laying out how the agency intends to handle
failures by forming bridge holding companies and letting solvent
subsidiaries keep operating.  The FDIC’s strategy “appears to have all of the essential
characteristics to solve the too-big-to-fail problem,” John C. Dugan, who served as comptroller of the currency before joining
law firm Covington & Burling LLP, and  Timothy Ryan , president
and CEO of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, said in a Bloomberg View column. Ryan was director
of the now-defunct Office of Thrift Supervision before going to
work for JPMorgan in 1993, according to his Sifma biography.  ‘Structural Changes’  Others doubt this will squelch the threat that big
institutions will need government rescues.  “This too-big-to-fail question will always be out there,”
Glassman said. He said some of these big firms “may be
systemically important for some time, unless there can be some
structural changes.”  If a bank fails and needs FDIC money it “should be
dismantled after that, and the name should be buried in
disgrace,” Dimon said.  JPMorgan offered an  illustration  of its own hypothetical
failure in a March presentation, suggesting a crash triggered by
$200 billion in losses. The bank described the kind of bridge
company foreseen by the FDIC and showed how temporary U.S.
funding could be repaid through the sale of business units.  Jerry Dubrowski, a Bank of America spokesman, and  Karina
Byrne , a spokeswoman for  UBS AG (UBSN) , said their banks hadn’t yet
filed living wills and declined to reveal any details on their
contents. Spokesmen for other banks, including Molly Meiners at
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Jennifer Zuccarelli  at JPMorgan,  Michael DuVally 
at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Sandra Hernandez  at  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
Michael O’Looney at  Barclays Plc. (BCS) ,  Duncan King  at  Deutsche Bank
AG (DB)  and Steven Vames at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) , declined to
comment on the process.  Smaller Banks  The deadline for banks smaller than the initial nine is a
year away, and that group will include  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , said
Ancel Martinez, a Wells spokesman.  “I’m still trying to find the one investor who believes
that the living wills will work,” Mike Mayo, who analyzes bank
stocks at CLSA Ltd. in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“When you find the one investor who thinks living wills will
work for the $2 trillion banks, let me know.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 