-- Biggest Coal Takeover No Easy Flip for Tinkler: Real M&A
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-06-29T08:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/biggest-coal-takeover-no-easy-flip-for-tinkler-real-m-a.html
An electrician-turned-dealmaker is
poised to make the biggest bet ever on coal mining in  Australia 
just as prices of the fuel  tumble .  Nathan Tinkler has held talks with banks to fund a bid for
Sydney-based  Whitehaven (WHC)  Coal Ltd., according to people familiar
with the matter, after his initial approach was rejected on June
13. The 36-year-old multimillionaire is seeking to acquire the
 79 percent  he doesn’t yet own of a company already trading at
more than  38 times  estimated earnings, making Whitehaven the
most expensive coal mining company globally with a market value
of more than $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Tinkler may now need to pay a 35 percent premium, valuing
Whitehaven at A$5.6 billion ($5.6 billion), Macquarie Group Ltd.
said, in the largest acquisition of an Australian coal company
on record, the data show. While he would be buying a company
that is targeting a fivefold increase in coal production by
2016, prices for the commodity are mired in their worst slump
since the financial crisis. Tinkler may need to weather four
more years of a  bear market  as the start of mining projects in
Australia and exports from  Indonesia  and  Colombia  further
depress prices for coal, Standard Chartered Plc. said.  “To do a deal like this, you have to be a lot more bullish
on coal prices than the market is right now,” David Cotterell,
a Sydney-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a phone
interview. “Unless the market’s wrong, you could be waiting a
long time to get your money back.”  Whitehaven, which fell as much as  4.6 percent  today, ended
up 1 percent at A$4.15 a share in Sydney trading.  Bank Talks  Tim Allerton, a spokesman for Tinkler, declined to comment
on his plans for Whitehaven, as did Kate Kerrison, a spokeswoman
for Whitehaven.  Whitehaven on June 13 said it rejected a “conditional and
incomplete” proposal related to a possible buyout led by
Tinkler Group Pty. Tinkler held talks with banks including
Barclays Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS AG to finance a bid,
two people with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be
identified as the details are confidential, said this month. A
bid may come as soon as next week, the Australian Financial
Review reported on June 26, without saying where it got the
information.  Tinkler’s offer came less than six weeks after he sold
Brisbane-based Aston Resources Ltd., which controls the Maules
Creek steelmaking coal project, and another company called
Boardwalk Resources Pty, to Whitehaven. The A$2.5 billion deal,
announced in December, made Tinkler the largest shareholder in
Whitehaven. His 21 percent stake, valued at A$1.1 billion at the
end of December, is worth A$874 million after a  22 percent drop 
in Whitehaven this year.  ’A Crime’  Acquiring the rest of Whitehaven would give Tinkler control
of five mines in eastern Australia already in production, two
under development and an additional five that are being
explored, according to a May  presentation  from the company. The
miner produces a mix of coking coal, used for steel making, and
thermal coal, bought by power generators to make electricity.  Whitehaven, which put itself up for sale in October 2010
only to rebuff the bids it received as too low, traded as high
as A$7.30 a share in April 2011. The stock ended yesterday at
 A$4.11 a share .  “It will be a crime for Whitehaven to be bought at these
prices,” Andrew Pedler, an analyst at Wilson HTM Investment
Group in Brisbane, said in a telephone interview. “Whitehaven
is significantly undervalued.”  Even after Whitehaven slid  44 percent  from its all-time
high, the company is valued at more than  38 times  analysts’
earnings estimates for the fiscal year ending this month,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That’s more than any
other global coal company with a market value exceeding $1
billion, and compares with a median of 11 times for the group,
the data show.  Coal Prices  Tinkler is making his approach even as analysts project an
oversupplied market will keep the price of thermal coal, which
accounts for 69 percent of Whitehaven’s output, depressed.  At $83.10 a metric ton, thermal coal at the Australian port
of Newcastle is already down 25 percent this year through June
22, according to IHS McCloskey, a coal data provider. The Asian
pricing benchmark is poised for its worst quarter since the
aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  With U.S. coal-fired power generators increasingly
switching to natural gas and freeing up more of the nation’s
coal for export, and output in Australia, Indonesia and Colombia
increasing, global coal export capacity will jump 85 percent by
2017, from the current limit of 1.2 billion metric tons,
according to  Standard Chartered .  Newcastle Coal  More than 60 projects in eastern Australia are set to
produce an additional 100 million tons of coal by the end of
2017, compared with Australia’s current annual coal exports of
300 million tons, Nomura said in a May 24 report.  Newcastle coal , which stood at $192.50 a ton in July 2008,
will fetch $90 a ton in 2017, according to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. That matches Nomura’s “long-term” forecast for the fuel.
The price of coking coal, which is set in negotiations between
suppliers and steelmakers, fell to $206 a metric ton for the
quarter ending June 30, from a peak of $330 a year before.  “There’s an awful lot of downward pressure on coal
pricing,” said Peter Arden, senior research analyst at Ord
Minnett Ltd. in  Melbourne . “Returns will not be as good as they
have been recently,” he said, referring to the profitability of
running a coal producer.  To win over shareholders, Tinkler may have to offer A$5.53
a share, said  Andrew Sullivan , a Sydney-based analyst at
Macquarie. That would represent a 30 percent premium to the
shares’ 30-day moving average before the first approach,
Sullivan said in a June 19 note. It would also be a 35 percent
premium to  yesterday’s close , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  A bid at that level would value Whitehaven at about A$5.7
billion ($5.7 billion), including net debt of A$126 million.
That would surpass the $4 billion acquisition of Macarthur Coal
Ltd. by  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  last year, making the takeover the
largest of an Australian coal miner, the data show.  At that price, Tinkler would be paying almost 25 times
Whitehaven’s  operating income  of A$233 million for the 12 months
through December, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Global coal mining companies with more than $1 billion in
market value trade at a median enterprise value of 9.3 times
operating income. In 15 takeovers of Australian coal miners over
the last five years, the median multiple paid was 19.7 times,
the data show.  ‘Cost Blowouts’  Tinkler would be acquiring a company that expects to boost
annual output to 25 million tons by June 2016, from a projected
5 million tons in the year ending this month. Whitehaven is also
planning to increase coking coal to 60 percent of output by
then, from 31 percent now, according to a May presentation. Both
targets are dependent on the expansion of Whitehaven’s mines and
the availability of rail and port capacity.  “Companies often make these production-growth forecasts,
which can often prove more difficult to achieve than they
initially expect,” Gareth James, an analyst at Morningstar Inc.
with a hold rating on Whitehaven, said in a telephone interview.
“There’s plenty of time between now and then for development
delays, cost blowouts, that kind of thing.”  Already, Whitehaven has pushed back the start of production
from its Maules Creek mine to early 2014, from  mid-2013 ,
according to analysts at UBS and Credit Suisse Group AG. In a
May 31 note, Credit Suisse described the delay as “a big
disappointment,” and said the cost of developing the mine may
be as much as 10 percent higher than initially estimated because
industry costs have risen since a  feasibility study  on the mine
was completed in July 2011.  Horse Breeding  Tinkler, who moved to  Singapore  from Australia this year,
built his near-$1 billion stake in Whitehaven in a series of
transactions since 2006. He sold his house that year to help buy
a A$30 million coal lease in Queensland, only to sell the asset
to Macarthur Coal for cash and shares a year later.  In 2008, Tinkler sold his Macarthur Coal stake to
steelmaker  ArcelorMittal (MT)  at a profit of about A$445 million. He
then bought Maules Creek from Rio Tinto Group for A$480 million
in August 2010.  Seeking funds to develop the project, Tinkler sold shares
of Aston Resources the same month, to raise A$400 million. In
December he signed the agreement to inject Aston Resources
assets into Whitehaven. He also owns metal-mining projects,
infrastructure investments, a horse-breeding operation, and the
 Newcastle Knights , a rugby league team.  Buying Whitehaven may now require holding onto a mine for
longer than any Tinkler has ever owned.  “At the end of the day someone has to make those assets
work better to generate better returns than they have
previously,”  Ord Minnett ’s Arden said. “For the next year or
so it’s going to be very difficult to make much money. He really
needs to buy some time right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 