-- BNP Paribas, Rabobank in $1 Billion Loan Pact for Belgian Wind
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-06-28T17:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/bnp-paribas-rabobank-in-1-billion-loan-pact-for-belgian-wind.html
BNP Paribas Fortis (BNP)  and Rabobank
International were part of an 850 million-euro ($1.06 billion)
financing plan for a Belgian offshore wind farm owned by the
retailer  Colruyt (COLR)  SA and a unit of Aspiravi Holding NV.  The accord included 595 million euros from such lenders as
 ING Groep NV (INGA) , ASN Bank NV and Belfius Bank SA for the Northwind
project in waters 37 kilometers (23 miles) off Oostende,
according to a statement today from Northwind NV, a joint
venture comprising Colruyt and renewables developer Aspiravi.  The European Investment Bank, KfW Ipex Bank GmbH and
PensionDanmark A/S also provided loans to the 216-megawatt
project. Work will start in early 2013 using 72 turbines made by
 Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , Northwind said.  The loans were guaranteed by the Danish export credit
agency Eksport Kredit Fonden, its Norwegian counterpart Garanti-
Instituttet For Eksportkreditt and the Brussels-based Office
National du Ducroire, according to the statement. The EIB also
acted as a debt guarantor.  Frank Coenen, chief executive officer of Northwind, said in
a phone interview from  Belgium  that the mix of lenders was vital
to ensure the transaction’s financial close in the current
financial climate.  “You need to look for this kind of structure, otherwise
they will not happen,” he said today.  The 17-year debt is non-recourse, where the lending bank
can recoup repayments from project profits, not assets of the
borrower. Equity and subordinated loans of 255 million euros
will come from the shareholders, among others, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  