-- Mortgage Seizure Plan Sparks Bondholder Talks With County
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-06-29T14:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/bondholders-discuss-mortgage-seizure-concerns-with-county-leader.html
A  California  county’s top executive
addressed bondholders including Angelo Gordon & Co. and
AllianceBernstein LP amid mounting concern it will use eminent
domain to seize mortgages packaged into securities to aid
homeowners who owe more than the properties’ values.  The Association of Mortgage Investors organized a
conference call on June 27 with San Bernardino County Chief
Executive Officer Greg Devereaux, said Chris Katopis, the
Washington-based group’s executive director. Staff and members
of other trade organizations were also invited to participate,
he said, amid speculation the unprecedented  strategy  may serve
as a template for other areas.  “I told them we haven’t decided to do anything yet,”
Devereaux said yesterday in a telephone interview. “I said we
have a very large problem that’s causing severe economic
problems and part of our exploring ways to deal with it is
hearing from people like those representatives of the securities
industry.”  Eighteen trade groups including the  American Bankers
Association ,  National Association of Home Builders  and
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association sent
 letters  yesterday to California officials expressing their
“strong objection.” They warned it would “actually further
depress housing values in the county by restricting the flow of
credit to home buyers.” The county is the largest by area in
the U.S., excluding Hawaii and  Alaska , according to its  website .  Stabilize Markets  Advocates led by  Mortgage Resolution Partners LLC  say the
 strategy  would help stabilize housing markets by reducing
 foreclosures  and that it’s legally possible. The firm, which
proposed the initiative, seeks to provide services including aid
arranging the financing that local governments would need to
purchase non-delinquent loans before cutting the balances and
then  refinancing  borrowers into new debt. Asset managers and
trade groups say that may be unlawful or unfair, and create bond
losses that hurt other Americans and restrict lending.  “This gets an ’A’ for creativity but what are you actually
accomplishing?” said Jonathan Lieberman, head of residential-
mortgage securities at New York-based Angelo Gordon, which
oversees about $24 billion. “The benefit to a few selected
homeowners and the profits for the private sponsor will be
vastly outweighed by the harm to responsible citizens,
homeowners and investors. That’s not a legitimate ’public use’
for purposes of eminent domain.”  Forced Sales  The plan may affect 3,165 loans, with $1 billion in
balances, in the two San Bernardino cities exploring it,
according to a report yesterday by Amherst Securities Group LP.
If extended to the rest of California, it might cover 214,355
mortgages, or $87.3 billion, with the amount elsewhere in the
U.S. totaling 314,339 loans, or $69.5 billion, the firm said.  The proposal “does not sit well with anyone” in the
market for home-loan securities, said Vincent Fiorillo, a senior
portfolio manager at DoubleLine Capital LP, saying he was
speaking as president of the mortgage-investor group. “We are
going to try to make alternative suggestions to San Bernardino
county.”  DoubleLine, which is based in  Los Angeles , has about $35
billion in assets under management. Mike Canter, a portfolio
manager at AllianceBernstein, is troubled that the proposal
focuses on only  one part  of the market, a slice where principal
forgiveness is already being used more often than in others, he
said. The New York-based firm oversees about $400 billion.  Eminent Domain  San Bernardino is exploring the strategy along with the
cities of Fontana and Ontario there. An agreement approved last
week granted them the authority to  study and create  a program.  Robert Shiller , the economics professor at  Yale University 
and co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price indexes,
supported the idea in a June 23 op-ed in the New York Times. By
using eminent-domain powers, municipalities can force the sale
of private property at prices deemed to be fair-market values if
doing so serves a public purpose.  Other trade groups invited to the call this week included
the Association of Institutional Investors, Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association and American Securitization
Forum, Katopis said. The two latter organizations had begun
publicly signaling opposition to the proposal.  “We had a very constructive dialog, and we have agreed to
continue this dialog,” Katopis said, referring to the
conference call. “AMI remains concerned and strongly opposed to
San Bernardino’s plan as we understand it.”  Damaged Bondholders  ASF Executive Director  Tom Deutsch  said his staff didn’t
join the call. His group is exploring whether a program would be
“a legal and appropriate use of government power,” he said
June 27. Members of Sifma, Wall Street’s largest lobbying
organization, have “very serious concerns,” saidKen Bentsen,
an executive vice president.  Damaged bondholders may include pension funds such as
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  that oversee
money for retirees living in the areas, mutual funds and real
estate investment trusts owned by retail investors, and
government-tied holders such as  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) ,  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and the federal public-private investment funds
started in the financial crisis, Angelo Gordon’s Lieberman said.  Steven Gluckstern, the head of San Francisco-based Mortgage
Resolution, said no bondholders will be hurt because the loans
would be bought for amounts that could be objected to in court.  Fair Value  “The owner of the loan today would get fair value for
it,” he said yesterday in a telephone interview. “I just think
they haven’t actually looked at the facts.”  Based on mortgage-bond contracts, loan servicers and
trustees probably have no obligation to object to the prices
offered, leaving investors forced to accept amounts that are too
low,  Laurie Goodman , the Amherst analyst, said in her report.  An e-mail to the press office of Calpers this week wasn’t
returned. James Ankner, a spokesman for New York-based AIG,
declined to comment.  Mortgage Resolution’s proposal covers only loans in
securities without government backing. While that excludes
mortgages held by banks or guaranteed by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac , the two government-supported firms also own those so-called
non-agency bonds.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , the overseer of Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac, “is reviewing this proposed use of eminent
domain,” Stefanie Johnson, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Flat Fees  Gluckstern said his firm’s own potential role is
misunderstood. It would charge flat per-loan fees for work
managing the program, rather than profiting by buying and then
reselling loans itself, he said.  It is “deep in conversations” with entities that may
provide the needed, non-recourse financing to municipalities.
Governments could likely resell debt after a refinancing for
more than its purchase price and use the gain to pay interest to
or share profits with those lenders, he said.  Devereaux, the county CEO, said an authority created to
explore the program will probably next month begin the process
of writing a request for proposals. He said “multiple” non-
profit groups had also expressed interest in participating.  Scott Simon , the mortgage head at Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s largest  bond fund , said
the initiative could undermine investor desire to lend to
homeowners. Government-backed programs have accounted for more
than 90 percent of new mortgages since 2008 amid tumbling home
values and soaring defaults.  ‘Monster Payments’  “It would put another nail in the coffin of the private
 mortgage market ,” Simon said. “It just means you’re going to
need to have monster credit scores and monster down payments if
you’re ever going to have a private market.”  Pimco is among investors that say they support greater
targeted use of principal forgiveness for “underwater”
borrowers with loans backing their bonds. More than 20 percent
of U.S. homeowners with mortgages owe more than their property’s
values,  according  to data firm CoreLogic Inc. About half of the
homes with mortgages in San Bernardino are underwater, Devereaux
said.  “We think this accelerates the clean-up of the problems
that are preventing the private-label securitization market from
coming back,” Gluckstern said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  