-- Bouygues Should Win France Telecom Aid Case, Court Aide Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-06-28T14:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/bouygues-should-win-france-telecom-aid-case-court-aide-says.html
Bouygues SA (EN)  should win a challenge
that may require a European Union tribunal to reexamine  France
Telecom SA (FTE) ’s 9 billion-euro proposed state loan, an EU court
aide said today.  Bouygues is seeking to overturn a 2010 court ruling that
said a French government offer of support for  France Telecom 
when it was near bankruptcy in 2002 wasn’t unlawful state aid.
 France  Telecom didn’t accept or act on the proposed credit line.  That decision may have been based on an incorrect
interpretation of EU law on the “existence of a link between
the advantage resulting from declarations” by the French
government in 2002 and “the potential engagement of state
resources as a result of” the offered credit line, Paolo Mengozzi, a legal adviser to the  European Court  of Justice, said
in a non-binding opinion.  France Telecom is the country’s  largest  phone company. The
former state monopoly is fighting increased competition from
rivals Bouygues Telecom and SFR, units of builder Bouygues SA
and  Vivendi SA (VIV) , respectively. The fight has intensified in
France as  Iliad SA (ILD)  received permission to become France’s fourth
mobile-phone operation this year, stealing subscribers with
steep price cuts.  Not Binding  Bouygues Telecom, the European Commission and France
Telecom declined to comment on the legal opinion. While the
advocate general’s opinion isn’t binding, it is followed by the
EU’s highest court in the majority of cases.  France Telecom shares fell 0.5 percent to 9.89 euros in
Paris before rising to 9.94 euros at 15:49CET. Bouygues shares
dropped 1.1 percent to 20.02 euros before rising to 20.13 euros
at 15:49CET.  The lower EU court ruled in 2010 that while statements by
the French government in 2002 that it would support France
Telecom “conferred a financial advantage,” the comments didn’t
commit any state resources. The French plan included a 9
billion-euro  credit line  for which the loan contract was sent to
the company in December 2002, the court said.  That court’s failure to see a link between the promise of
aid and a real financial advantage was “an error of law,”
Mengozzi said.  The European Commission must approve large state subsidies
to companies to prevent firms gaining an unfair advantage over
rivals. It ruled in 2004 that the proposed loan helped boost the
company’s shares and credit rating and qualified as unlawful
aid. France Telecom last year lost a court challenge against a
separate EU decision that forced it to pay as much as 1.1
billion euros in back taxes to the French government.  The case is C-399/10 Bouygues and Bouygues Telecom v
Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Luxembourg at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  