-- Boves Says He Doesn’t Expect Big JPMorgan Loss: Tom Keene
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-06-28T13:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/boves-says-he-doesn-t-expect-big-jpmorgan-loss-tom-keene.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  won’t have a
“major loss” in 2012 following the lender’s disclosure of
losses from  credit derivatives  that could amount to more than $2
billion this quarter,  Richard Bove  said.  “We’re not expecting JPM to run a major loss,” Bove, an
analyst with Rochdale Securities LLC, said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview with Tom Keene. “I don’t believe that
there’s any likelihood that the liquidity of the company is
going to be affected by this.”  Shares of JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, fell
after the New York Times reported the lender’s trading losses
from credit derivatives may eventually total as much as $9
billion, or more than four times the firm’s initial estimate.
JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  has said the New
York-based bank doesn’t want to “do anything stupid” by
unwinding the trades too quickly and hopes “this won’t be a
significant item for us” by the end of the year.  “That would suggest that in 2013 JPMorgan will earn $22
billion,” Bove said. “If it earns $22 billion in that year, it
will make more money than any other bank in the world. Plus, it
will make more money than any other company in the  United States 
except five or six.”  JPMorgan’s losses have increased in recent weeks as the
lender sought to exit the holdings, the Times reported, citing
unidentified former traders and executives at the bank. The
disclosure of the trades is a “negative development,” Bove
said. Still, it would be a “terrible mistake” to have the one-
time loss change perceptions of JPMorgan, he said.  Swaps Ease  “If this company has got earnings power in the $22 billion
range, how bad can it be?” Bove said.  JPMorgan  dropped  3.8 percent to $35.40 at 9:32 a.m. in  New
York . The firm’s shares gained 11 percent this year through
yesterday.  JPMorgan is perceived to be the second-most creditworthy of
the six biggest U.S. banks, according to credit-default swap
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of the contracts, which
protect investors against default on JPMorgan’s debt, is less
than any of those lenders except for San Francisco-based  Wells
Fargo & Co ., the data show.  Credit-default swaps on JPMorgan eased to 139.3 basis
points today, from 172.1 basis points on June 12, the data show.  That compares with the average of contracts on JPMorgan,
Wells Fargo, Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley of 237.9 basis points
through yesterday, the data show. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  