-- Banco Bradesco Falls on Moody’s Cut, BMG Purchase Report
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-06-28T21:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/bradesco-drops-in-sao-paulo-on-moody-s-cut-bmg-purchase-report.html
Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  fell after Moody’s
Investors Service cut its  credit rating  and a newspaper report
said the bank plans to buy payroll lender Banco BMG SA.  Shares retreated 0.9 percent to 29.33 reais at the close in
Sao Paulo, extending their decline this quarter to 8 percent.  Bradesco had its standalone ratings cut by Moody’s
Investors Service late yesterday by three levels to Baa1. The
stock extended a decline after Estado de S. Paulo columnist
Sonia Racy reported on the newspaper’s website that the bank is
buying  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based BMG, without saying where
she obtained the information.  Bradesco and BMG declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg News.  Bradesco was one of eight Brazilian lenders that Moody’s
cut as part of a global review of banks rated higher than their
home countries, the ratings company said in a statement.  Itau
Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  fell 0.9 percent to 27.25 reais in Sao
Paulo, while  Banco do Brasil SA , the country’s largest lender,
declined 0.2 percent to 18.76 reais.  “This downgrade confirms a negative sentiment investors
already had about Brazilian banks, because of rising delinquency
rates and the government’s pressure for them to lower the rates
they charge,” Felipe Martins Silveira, an analyst at brokerage
Coinvalores, said by phone from  Sao Paulo .  Banco BMG’s dollar bonds due in 2018 rose 7 cents to 90
cents on the dollar at 5:29 p.m. in Sao Paulo, after earlier
touching 93 cents, the highest since March 14, according to
Trace, the bond price-reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The yield dropped 184 basis points, or
1.84 percentage point, to 10.33 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  