-- Brazil Signals More Rate Cuts to Accelerate Slow Recovery
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-06-28T18:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/brazil-signals-more-rate-cuts-while-cutting-growth-forecast-1-.html
Brazil’s central bank signaled it
will continue to cautiously cut  interest rates  to bolster a
sluggish economy, as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens and
inflationary risks remain low. Interest rate futures fell.  The central bank, in its quarterly inflation report today,
trimmed its 2012 growth forecast to 2.5 percent from 3.5 percent
in March. Slower global and domestic growth will help tame
 inflation  next year, the bank said. Consumer prices will
increase 5 percent in 2013, according to the bank’s reference
scenario. The March report forecast prices would rise 5.2
percent next year.  “The change in the growth forecast reflects, in part, the
fact that the recovery is materializing in a very gradual
manner,” policy makers said, repeating language used in
previous communications that any future monetary easing will be
carried out with “parsimony.”  The bank’s report reinforces expectations that it will cut
its  benchmark Selic interest rate  by at least 50 basis points
each in its next two monetary policy meetings, said  Newton Rosa ,
chief economist at Sul America Investimentos.  Slow Recovery  “Weaker international growth and a slower domestic
economic recovery support the scenario of less inflation and
rate cuts,” Rosa said by telephone from  Sao Paulo . “I think it
won’t reduce the pace,” he said, referring to the 50 basis-
point rate cut in the May 30 decision of the bank’s monetary
policy committee, or Copom.  Yields on interest rate future contracts maturing in
January 2014, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell six basis
points to 7.88 percent at 3:31 p.m. local time. The real
weakened 0.8 percent to 2.0924 per  U.S. dollar .  Since the last inflation report in March, volatility on
international markets has heightened and  Brazil ’s economy has
grown below its potential, supporting a benign outlook on
inflation, the central bank said. “In the Copom’s view, the
risks to the inflation trajectory at this moment remain
limited,” the report said.  A separate report today showed that inflation remains under
control. The IGP-M index, 60 percent of which is weighted in
wholesale goods, rose 0.66 percent in June, the slowest pace in
three months, the Rio de Janeiro-based Getulio Vargas Foundation
said on its website.  2014 Target  The National Monetary Council, or CMN, today set the
inflation target for 2014 at its current level of 4.5 percent
plus or minus two percentage points, Marcio Holland, secretary
for economic policy at the  Finance Ministry , told reporters in a
teleconference.  Since August, Brazil has cut the Selic rate by 400
percentage points to 8.5 percent, more than any other member of
the Group of 20 nations. Traders expect the Selic will be
reduced to as low as 7.5 percent by the end of the year as the
government tries to revive economic growth.  In just over a month, analysts have shaved more than one
percentage point off their 2012 growth estimate for Brazil,
lowering it to 2.18 percent, according to a central bank survey
released June 25. Economists predict the biggest emerging market
after  China  will slow for a second straight year even as the
government steps up efforts to boost investments and fuel
demand. The economy grew 2.7 percent last year after expanding
7.5 percent in 2010.  Wholesale Prices  Consumer prices rose 0.17, the least in a year, while
wholesale prices climbed 0.74 percent after jumping 1.17 percent
in May, according to the IGP-M index.  Inflation as measured by the benchmark IPCA-15 price index
decelerated for a ninth straight month in June to 5 percent,
slowing more than analysts had forecast.  The central bank today said that prices should rise 4.7
percent this year after the 12.5 percent depreciation of the
real against the dollar over the past three months put pressure
on import costs, according to its reference scenario. That’s up
from a 4.4 percent forecast in the March report.  Inflation is converging toward the bank’s target, which is
within the bounds of international credibility, Holland said.  Extra Stimulus  President  Dilma Rousseff  announced yesterday the latest
round of measures to offset the impact of slower global growth
on  Latin America ’s biggest economy. She pledged to boost
government purchases of trucks, buses, ambulances, defense
equipment and tractors by 6.6 billion reais ($3.2 billion) in
the second half of the year.  The government also reduced the borrowing costs for state-
funded investments to a record. The  long-term reference rate  for
loans from the BNDES state development bank will be cut to a
record low 5.5 percent from 6 percent.  Earlier this year, the government reduced taxes on cars,
boosted funding for the BNDES and removed curbs for credit
growth.  The strong recovery implied in today’s central bank
projections may be overly optimistic, said Flavio Serrano,
senior economist at Banco Espirito Santo Investment Bank.  “We maintain a view of a weak economy on average,”
Serrano said by telephone from Sao Paulo. “The government isn’t
dealing with investment. It’s no use to keep stimulating
consumption.”  The central bank will take into account the delayed impact
of rate cuts in its monetary policy to “avoid unnecessary
fluctuations in economic activity,” it said in today’s report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Raymond Colitt} in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
{Andre Soliani} in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 