-- Brazil Growers Seen Unlikely to `Flood' ICE With Coffee
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-28T09:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/brazil-growers-seen-unlikely-to-flood-ice-with-coffee.html
Coffee producers in  Brazil , the
world’s largest grower, are unlikely to “flood” ICE Futures
U.S. when the exchange starts accepting delivery of their beans,
according to P&A Marketing International.  ICE in New York, where arabica coffee trades, will start
taking Brazilian supplies next March. The exchange began grading
beans from the South American country this month. The bourse
will apply a discount of 9 cents a pound to the coffee. Beans
from  Colombia , the second-biggest grower of the arabica variety,
sell at the exchange price, while coffee from India to Ecuador
incurs discounts of 2 cents to 4 cents a pound.  The discount planned by ICE will make it disadvantageous
for Brazilian producers to deliver coffee to the exchange,
Carlos H.J. Brando, a director at P&A in Brazil, said at the
World Coffee Outlook Conference conference in Geneva today.
Growers can get better prices outside the exchange, said Brando,
whose company also represents Pinhalense SA in Brazil, a maker
of coffee-processing equipment.  Brazilian coffee would have to sell in the physical market
at a discount of 16 cents a pound or more to the exchange price
for delivery to ICE to be profitable for sellers, Volcafe, a
unit of ED&F Man Holdings Ltd., said June 8. Beans from the
2012-13 crop now under way were trading at a discount of 5 cents
a pound, Volcafe said that day, adding that such a price was
already “soft” and a level not seen since the summer of 2009.  Arabica beans, grown mainly in  Latin America , are favored
for specialty drinks such as those made by  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
Robusta beans, harvested mainly in  Asia  and parts of  Africa , are
used in instant drinks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 