-- Brazil Rate Futures Yields Fall as Central Bank Cuts Growth View
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-06-28T21:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/brazil-rate-futures-yields-fall-as-central-bank-cuts-growth-view.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts dropped to a record after the central bank cut
its economic growth forecast, encouraging speculation it will
maintain the pace of reductions in borrowing costs.  The real pared declines after the central bank said it will
auction currency swaps tomorrow in the third such auction this
week.  Brazil ’s central bank said Latin America’s largest economy
will expand 2.5 percent in 2012, compared with a March
projection of 3.5 percent expansion.  “The most important point was the reduction of the GDP
forecast,” Darwin Dib, chief economist at CM Capital, said by
phone from  Sao Paulo . “Rates should fall with this and the
external scenario.”  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2014 fell
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 7.87 percent
after touching a record low 7.85 percent. The yields have
tumbled 166 basis points this quarter. The real dropped 0.1
percent to 2.0778 per  U.S. dollar .  The central bank auctioned 60,000 currency swap contracts
today, accepting bids worth $949.3 million for 19,000 contracts
due in August and $2.05 billion on 41,000 contracts due in
September, according to data on the bank’s website. The bank
auctioned another 60,000 swap contracts on June 27, rolling over
$3 billion worth of contracts expiring July 2.  Global Concern  The real declined after a German report showed an increase
in unemployment as European leaders convened for a summit,
heightening global growth concern.  “The swap auction has an effect on the market, but the
decisive factor for the currency is the external environment,”
Dib said. “The chance of having no concrete solution coming out
of the European meeting is big, and the markets are expecting
that.”  The real has lost 12 percent this quarter, the worst
performance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, as the  European debt crisis  sapped demand for
emerging-market assets.  The swaps auctions are a reversal of central bank dollar
purchases to weaken the local currency, which reached $7.2
billion in April, the most since March 2011.  The country’s exchange rate and borrowing costs will remain
low, helping to boost economic growth, Finance Minister  Guido
Mantega  told reporters in Brasilia yesterday.  Target Rate  Brazil has cut the target interest rate by 400 basis points
to 8.5 percent since August, more than any other member of the
Group of 20 nations. Traders are betting that the benchmark may
be reduced to about 7.50 percent by the end of the year as the
government tries to revive economic growth, interest-rate
futures show.  Brazilian prices will rise 4.7 percent in 2012, according
to the central bank’s reference scenario, compared with a 4.4
percent forecast in the previous report.  The central bank also lowered its inflation forecast for
2013 to 5 percent, compared with a 5.2 percent projection in the
bank’s March report.  “Even though the central bank implicitly recognized the
negative impact on inflation of lower  interest rates  and a
weaker real, the monetary authority sees a more benign balance
of risks now than in March thanks to a more deflationary
external environment,” Enestor dos Santos, a senior Brazil
economist at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in  Madrid , wrote
in a note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  