-- Britons in ‘Constant Depression’ as Outlook Darkens, GfK Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-06-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/britons-in-constant-depression-as-outlook-darkens-gfk-says.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  failed to
improve in June as a darkening  economic outlook  kept household
sentiment in its worst slump in almost four decades, GfK NOP
Ltd. said.  An  index of confidence  held at minus 29, the London-based
research group said in an e-mailed report today. That matched
the median estimate of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
A measure of Britons’ outlook for the economy over the next 12
months fell five points to minus 31.  “The stagnant level of consumer confidence suggests that
the public is stuck in a period of constant depression, which it
is finding very hard to snap out of,” said Nick Moon, GfK
Social Research managing director. The index has been “at minus
29 or worse for an entire 12-month spell –- the worst run in its
40-year history.”  The continued weakness in confidence may limit growth in
 consumer spending  this year after data yesterday showed
household expenditure fell 0.1 percent in the first quarter and
real disposable income declined. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  announced this week he will scrap an increase in
fuel duty that was due to take effect in August to help people
through a “very difficult economic time.”  Moon said there was no “royal bounce” for confidence from
the public holiday and celebrations to mark Queen Elizabeth II’s
jubilee, as there was from the wedding of  Prince William  and
 Kate Middleton  in 2011.  ‘Dispiriting’  A gauge of Britons’ outlook for their personal financial
situation over the next year remained unchanged in June at minus
9, GfK said. An index of whether now is a good time to make
major purchases climbed four points to minus 28.  “While the current position is better than it was at the
depths of the financial crisis in 2008, the figures do mark a
dispiriting new type of low,” Moon said of the consumer-
sentiment gauge. GfK surveyed 2,003 people from June 8 to June
17 for the index, which has been running since 1974.  Disposable income dropped 0.9 percent in the first quarter
from the previous three months, when it also declined by that
amount, the  Office for National Statistics  said yesterday in
 London .  Gross domestic product  fell 0.3 percent, matching a
previous estimate, after dropping a revised 0.4 percent in the
last quarter of 2011.  -- Editors: Fergal O’Brien, Andrew Atkinson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  