-- Brown Closes $16 Billion Budget Gap With Tax Increase
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-06-28T20:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/brown-closes-16-billion-budget-gap-with-tax-increase.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown 
signed a $91.3 billion budget for the most indebted U.S. state,
putting his signature to a second consecutive on-time spending
plan after decades of delays amid partisan battles.  The budget passed by the Democrat-dominated Legislature
relies on voters approving higher taxes in November. It uses
funds intended for mortgage relief and counts on the sale of
greenhouse-gas credits to polluting industries. State workers
will take a temporary pay cut, and the poor will find it harder
to collect welfare if they don’t try to get work.  Brown’s spending plan erases a $15.7 billion deficit,
combined with the tax increase, and is aimed at ending years of
persistent deficits. In February,  Standard & Poor’s , which rates
California’s credit the lowest among U.S. states, boosted its
outlook to positive, saying the state was poised for an upgrade
depending on financial improvement.  “My revenue proposal is fair and temporary,” Brown,
referring to the tax increases, said in a statement. “Our state
budget problem was built up over a decade, and it won’t be fixed
overnight. These temporary increases will ensure funding for our
schools until the economy improves.”  The 74-year-old governor crafted the spending plan with
fellow Democrats after the deficit ballooned to almost twice the
amount projected in January as revenue missed targets. Brown
vetoed $129 million of spending from the budget Democrats sent
him before signing it late yesterday.  Tax Vote  The budget’s centerpiece is an initiative on the November
ballot asking voters to temporarily raise the  state sales tax ,
already the highest in the U.S., to 7.5 percent from 7.25
percent. It would boost taxes on income starting at $250,000.
The rate for those making $1 million or more a year, now 10.3
percent, would rise to 13.3 percent, the most of any state.  Brown’s measure will have a more prominent position on the
November ballot because Democrats moved up the placement of bond
measures and constitutional amendments. Voters will face at
least 10 other issues in presidential election year.  Republican View  “Democrats ignore the simple truth that voters have
rejected the past eight tax-increase proposals placed before
them,” said Senator Bob Huff of Diamond Bar, who joined all
fellow Republican lawmakers in voting against the spending plan.
“While this budget should be a reflection of the state’s
priorities, it threatens $6 billion of education cuts and lacks
any of the meaningful reforms the people of  California 
rightfully want.”  If the tax increase fails, it will trigger $6.1 billion of
cuts -- $5.5 billion coming from schools, enough to pay for
three weeks of classes.  Such mid-year spending reductions, known as trigger cuts,
are intended to make sure the state has enough money to repay a
$10 billion  cash-flow  loan that Treasurer Bill Lockyer plans to
seek in August.  State and local governments typically sell short-term notes
to bolster cash flow until tax receipts increase later in the
fiscal year. California would be unable to borrow at reasonable
rates without assuring investors of repayment by next June.  Debt Rating  S&P rates California A-, the fourth-lowest investment-grade
level. While the New York-based company raised its outlook,
analyst Gabriel Petek in  San Francisco  has said the state needs
to better align its continuing revenue with programmed spending.  A California bond maturing in February 2022 was sold today
at a yield of 2.45 percent, or about 0.53 percentage point more
than an  index  of top-rated muni debt with a similar maturity,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The securities were
issued in March at a yield of 2.78 percent, or 0.88 percentage
point above the benchmark.  It cost the equivalent of almost $237,500 annually to
protect $10 million of California debt against default for 10
years today, down from about $260,100 on June 7. That compares
with about $550,400 for  Spain , up from almost $527,400 three
weeks earlier, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  To attract support for the tax increase, Brown’s budget
freezes in-state tuition in the  University of California  and the
California State University systems next year.  Payroll Cuts  The spending plan counts on a 5 percent cut in payroll
costs. Brown proposed achieving that by having employees work
9.5 hours on four days instead of 8 hours in five each week. The
largest state workers’ bargaining unit, the Service Employees
International Union Local 1000, rejected the plan and instead
agreed to 12 days of unpaid leave in the year.  Democrats had stripped language from the budget that would
have authorized Brown to order unpaid days off, known as
furloughs. Lawmakers subsequently restored the power, giving the
governor more leverage with other unions that haven’t agreed to
the cuts.  The spending plan makes use of $410.6 million from
California’s share of a $25 billion national mortgage-relief
legal settlement. The agreement with five lenders, including
 Bank of America Corp.  and JPMorgan Chase & Co., ended a probe of
abusive foreclosure practices stemming from the housing market
collapse.  Cap, Trade  The spending plan counts on $500 million in revenue from
the nation’s first state-run cap-and-trade program to mitigate
air pollution. The budget estimates about $1 billion will be
received in fiscal 2013 under the landmark legislation, which
lets companies buy and sell carbon credits to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions.  About $880 million was cut from welfare spending for the
year, which begins July 1. Recipients will be limited to two
years of assistance unless they can demonstrate they are in job
training. Those with small children would be eligible for
exemptions.  The plan eliminates California’s health-insurance system
for poor children, who would instead receive care under Medi-
Cal, a state-run program for low-income residents. Subsidies for
child care will be reduced by 11 percent.  The new budget leaves California with a $948 million
reserve, down from the $1.1 billion sought by Brown. Democrats
in the Legislature lowered the so-called rainy-day fund to pay
for some welfare cuts Brown had sought.  California’s constitution requires lawmakers to pass an
annual budget by June 15 with a simple majority vote. Democrats
control the Senate and the Assembly, though they don’t hold
enough seats to pass a tax increase, which requires two-thirds
approval.  A voter initiative passed in 2010 strips lawmakers of their
pay for every day they’re late with the budget. This year they
passed the main spending bill by the deadline, though not all
the supporting legislation to implement it. Democrats insisted
that they met the requirements to keep their pay, since they
sent the governor the main bill on time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  