-- Calgary Is Best for Commercial Real-Estate Returns on Oil Boom
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-06-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/calgary-is-best-for-commercial-real-estate-returns-on-oil-boom.html
Calgary was the best city for
commercial real estate investors last year, according to a
global survey by Investment Property Databank Ltd. in which the
top 10 locations were all in  North America .  Rental income and higher property values in Calgary
produced a return of 21.6 percent, the London-based research
firm said. The Canadian city benefited from the booming oil and
gas industries and a restricted supply of real estate, IPD said.
Sydney and  Cape Town , also dominated by commodity companies,
generated returns of 9.9 percent and 11.2 percent.  “Real estate returns have been influenced by stabilizing
or improving income, recovery pricing and safety-seeking capital
shifts,” said Bill Hughes, global head of real-estate research
and strategy at UBS Global Asset Management, which oversees
almost $580 billion of assets.  London  had a 6 percent gain in property values last year,
the most in  Europe , while  New York  real estate appreciated by
8.6 percent. The U.S. and Canadian markets recovered from the
global credit crisis about 12 months after Europe, IPD said. The
survey excludes  China  and some other Asian countries.  “The financial centers of London and New York benefit from
the quality of real estate and tenants as well as market
transparency and liquidity,” IPD senior director Peter Hobbs
said in a statement.  Unsustainable Returns  Nineteen cities, including Boston, Denver and Montreal, had
returns of more than 12 percent, the survey showed. That level
of returns is probably not sustainable because it was driven by
investors seeking a haven for their money or to profit from a
recovery in local property markets, Hughes said.  Dublin was the worst-performing market covered by the
survey, producing a loss of 1.9 percent. An investment in the
city returned 0.6 percent during the past decade as rental
income was almost completely erased by the collapse in real
estate values, IPD said.  The best-performing cities of the past decade were Cape
Town and Johannesburg, returning 19.4 percent and 17.3 percent,
according to the survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 