-- California Lawmakers Pass Measure Limiting Cap-And-Trade Links
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-06-28T00:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/california-lawmakers-pass-measure-limiting-cap-and-trade-links.html
California lawmakers passed a bill
that may stall plans for a link of the state’s cap-and-trade
system with  Quebec  that would allow companies to exchange carbon
permits across the borders.  The measure, approved as part of the legislature’s $95.1
billion budget package, requires the state’s air resources board
to gain approval from the governor before linking cap-and-trade
systems with other jurisdictions. The board was expected to
decide tomorrow on a link with Quebec that would allow companies
to use  carbon offsets  and permits issued by the province to meet
California’s greenhouse-gas emissions targets.  Dave Clegern, a spokesman for the air resources board in
Sacramento, declined in an e-mail to comment on the bill’s
approval, saying the agency is “withholding any comment until
after the governor signs” the legislation.  California, which established a carbon program after U.S.
policy makers failed to develop a federal plan, is set to join
more than 30 other governments operating emissions-trading
programs worldwide next year, including 27 European Union
member-states, Norway, Switzerland and New Zealand, as well as
Quebec. The state’s air board has supported a link with Quebec
to strengthen its carbon market and drive down emissions by
larger volumes.  Linking the two programs would send “a strong message to
two national governments that now is the time to support
innovation,  energy efficiency  and the development of clean
technologies,”  Mary Nichols , chairman of California’s air
resources board, said in a statement when the board’s staff
proposed rules that would join the systems May 9.  Board Action  Clegern declined to comment on whether the air board will
still decide tomorrow on a linkage with Quebec.  “What happens tomorrow will be up to the board,” he said.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  cleared a record number of
California carbon options contracts, with 750 traded as of 6
p.m.  New York  time, topping a previous record of 600 on Sept.
19. All of the contracts were for options, with puts traded at
$1.75 a ton and calls from $1.25 to $2.50, Brookly McLaughlin, a
spokeswoman for the Exchange in Chicago, said in an e-mail.  California carbon futures for December 2013 delivery rose
15 cents to $17.40 a ton, the highest since Nov. 16, according
to data compiled by  CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s Green Exchange.  The bill approved today also requires the air board to
deposit all revenue collected from carbon allowance auctions and
sales into a fund that would be available for appropriation by
the legislature.  California Governor  Jerry Brown  has until midnight to sign
the legislature’s spending plan, which takes effect July 1, the
start of the fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  