-- Canada Competition Watchdog Aitken to Quit in September
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-06-28T19:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/canada-competition-watchdog-aitken-to-quit-in-september.html
Competition Bureau Commissioner
 Melanie Aitken , who developed a reputation as a fierce guardian
of the country’s antitrust rules in battles against Visa Inc.
and Air Canada, will step down in September.  Aitken, who was appointed in August 2009 for a five-year
term, will leave her post Sept. 21, the bureau said today in a
statement posted on its website.  “I believe we have accomplished what we set out to do and
positioned the bureau to continue its valuable work well into
the future,” Aitken said in the  statement . Greg Scott, a
spokesman for the bureau, declined in an e-mail to comment
further on the reason for her departure.  Since taking over as commissioner in 2009, Aitken has
overseen an increase of cases where companies have made
concessions, such as selling assets, to get mergers approved and
steered the regulator toward tackling more difficult issues.  Aitken has been emboldened by an overhaul of competition
legislation in 2009 that provided her with a range of new tools,
including changes to the merger-review process that’s providing
companies incentives to seek negotiated settlements.  “She reinvigorated enforcement of Canadian competition
law,” said Kevin Ackhurst, a competition partner at law firm
 Norton Rose  in Toronto.  Aitken has overseen several prominent antitrust files,
including a review of the proposed C$3.73 billion ($3.6 billion)
acquisition of  TMX Group Inc. (X) , which owns the Toronto Stock
Exchange, by a group of Canadian banks and pension funds.  LIBOR Investigation  The bureau is investigating allegations that at least seven
firms, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Deutsche Bank AG and
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, conspired to affect prices on
derivatives linked to the London interbank offered rate, known
as LIBOR. Regulators in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia  also have been
probing the case.  In December 2010, Aitken sued Visa and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  over
fees the credit-card companies charge merchants for
transactions. She fined  BCE Inc. (BCE) ’s Bell Canada C$10 million for
what the Competition Bureau said were misleading ads over its
pricing, and sought to block a proposed joint venture between
 Air Canada (AC/B)  and its Star Alliance partner  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)   Aitken also has taken on Canadian real-estate agents over
online property-listing practices, reaching a settlement with
the  Canadian Real Estate Association  in 2010. In a separate case
last year, the bureau sued the Toronto Real Estate Board,
claiming it was restricting access to its online listing
service.  When asked in a May 8 interview with Bloomberg News if she
would complete her term, Aitken said, “the best professional
adventures I’ve had have all been unplanned and unexpected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  