-- Canadian Stocks Fall as Materials Slip Amid Europe Summit
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-06-28T18:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/canadian-stocks-fall-as-materials-slip-amid-europe-summit.html
Canadian stocks declined, after a
two-day advance for the benchmark index, as raw-material
companies and banks fell as European leaders began a two-day
summit on the debt crisis.  The three largest banks in  Canada ,  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ,
Toronto-Dominion, and Bank of  Nova Scotia , lost at least 1.1
percent.  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  and Barrick Gold Corp. dropped more than
1.7 percent as the metal slid. Energy shares rose the most in
the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index.  Progress Energy
Resources (PRQ)  Corp. surged 74 percent after agreeing to be bought by
Petroliam Nasional Bhd, Malaysia’s state-owned oil and natural-
gas company, for C$4.8 billion ($4.67 billion) in cash.  The S&P/TSX lost 82.28 points, or 0.7 percent, to 11,328.66
at 2:45 p.m. in Toronto. The benchmark index is down 1.6 percent
for June, heading for a fourth straight month of declines. It
has dropped 8.6 percent for the quarter.  “We’re floundering. Until something happens in Europe, the
equity markets are going to stay under a cloud,” said Rick Hutcheon, president of Toronto-based RKH Financial, in a phone
interview.’’  Gold declined 1.6 percent while oil fell for the first time
in two days amid signs of slowing U.S. growth. The number of
applications for U.S. unemployment benefits hovered last week
near the highest level of the year, the Labor Department said.
Concern about a worsening of Europe’s fiscal crisis and a global
slowdown dominates as the region’s leaders meet in Brussels for
the first of a two-day summit.  Gold Shares  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest producer of the
metal, dropped 1.7 percent to C$36.94.  Goldcorp Inc. (GG)  declined
4.2 percent to C$36.78, the lowest intraday price since May 30.  Tahoe Resources Inc. (THO)  plunged 19 percent to C$13.14,
dropping as much as 40 percent before trading on its stock was
briefly halted. The developer of the Escobal silver mine in
Guatemala tumbled after Mineweb reported that the government
proposed taking stakes in mining companies operating in the
country, citing newspaper Prensa Libre.  “We haven’t heard anything officially from the government,”
Ira Gostin, a spokesman for Reno, Nevada-based
Tahoe, said in a telephone interview.  Centerra Gold Inc. (CG)  lost 28 percent to C$7.10. The owner of
the Kumtor mine in Kyrgyzstan said it believes a parliamentary
resolution calling for changes to the agreements governing the
project isn’t legally binding. The company dropped 26 percent on
June 22 after the company said the parliamentary report
alleged Centerra’s operations had caused environmental damage.  Banks Tumble  Royal Bank, the largest lender in Canada, dropped 1.3
percent to C$50.71.  Toronto Dominion (TD) , the second largest,
declined 1.1 percent to C$78.23 and  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  lost 2
percent to C$51.96, snapping two days of gains.  Progress Energy, a Calgary-based oil and natural gas
producer, jumped 74 percent to C$20.07. Petronas Chief Executive
Officer Shamsul Azhar Abbas said March 30 he wants to expand the
company’s presence in Canada and Australia. The company bought a
stake in three of Progress Energy’s gas fields last year and
agreed to explore development of a liquefied natural gas
terminal to export the fuel.  Energy stocks rallied following the deal.  Advantage Oil &
Gas Ltd. (AAV)  jumped 4.9 percent to $2.95.  Celtic Exploration Ltd. (CLT) 
rose 6.5 percent to C$13.63.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in  New York  at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  