-- Canadian Dollar Weakens for 2nd Day as Traders Pare Risk Assets
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-06-28T21:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/canadian-dollar-heads-for-biggest-monthly-loss-since-august.html
Canada’s dollar fell for a second
day against its U.S. counterpart as demand for currencies of
commodity-producing nations eased amid speculation Europe’s
financial crisis will slow global growth.  The currency slid to a three-week low and was poised for
the biggest monthly drop versus major peers in more than a year
on concern demand for the nation’s raw materials will ease and
keep the  Bank of Canada  from raising  interest rates . European
Union leaders opened a two-day summit on their debt crisis.  “There’s a combination of factors weighing on the Canadian
dollar and other risk assets,” Emanuella Enenajor, an economist
in Toronto at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World
Markets, said in a telephone interview. “One is the euro summit
that started today, and the continuing expectation that we’re
not going to solve anything at the summit. Also,  oil prices  are
falling. It’s a bad day for resources.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, dropped 0.8
percent to C$1.0332 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after
falling as low as C$1.0363, the weakest since June 6. One
Canadian dollar buys 96.79 cents.  “It’s risk off, plain and simple,”  Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities
unit, said in an e-mail.  While there’s been pressure to sell U.S. dollars around
C$1.03, this may be overwhelmed by further  risk aversion ,
Osborne said.  “My feeling is that we retest the C$1.0450 area at least
in the next four to six weeks,” Osborne said.  June Drop  Canada’s currency has tumbled 1.4 percent in June against
nine developed-world counterparts, the most since the 1.7
percent  drop  in April 2011, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes.  Government  bonds  rose, dragging the yield on the nation’s
10-year benchmark bonds down five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.68 percent. It reached a record low of
1.615 percent on June 1. The price of the 2.75 percent bond due
in June 2022 climbed 43 cents to C$109.77.  Canadian 10-year bonds yielded 10 basis points more than
equivalent-maturity U.S. securities today, the least in a month.  EU leaders meet today and tomorrow for the 19th summit on
the region’s debt crisis. They are due to discuss a plan seen
playing out over more than a decade for closer European
integration. The blueprint, written by European Council
President  Herman Van Rompuy , centers on common banking
supervision and deposit insurance, along with a “criteria-based
and phased” move toward joint debt issuance.  Summit Headlines  “You just have to trade the summit headline by headline,”
 Adam Cole , global head of foreign-exchange strategy at Royal
Bank of Canada’s  RBC Capital Markets , said by phone from London.
“If you had to take a directional view and stick to it,
expectations going into the summit are so low, there has to be
some risk of a pleasant surprise, which would be risk-
positive.”  RBC predicts the Canadian dollar will reach parity with the
greenback by year-end.  Stocks pared losses as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
canceled a planned press briefing, spurring speculation EU
leaders were near agreement. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was
down 0.2 percent after dropping as much as 1.4 percent.  Van Rompuy later said at a news conference leaders have
agreed to spend 120 billion euros ($149 billion) to stimulate
growth and create jobs.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 2.2
percent to $78.46 a barrel in New York. Brent crude declined 1.6
percent to $92.03 a barrel.  “A general tone of risk aversion has weighed on equities,
oil prices and the Canadian dollar,”  Camilla Sutton , chief
currency strategist at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotiabank in
Toronto, wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  