-- Canada April Employment, Earnings and Hours Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-06-28T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/canada-april-employment-earnings-and-hours-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s employment, earnings, and hours report for April
released by  Statistics Canada .  In April, average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll
employees were $896.63, up 1.0% from the previous month. On a
year-over-year basis, earnings increased by 3.1%.  The 3.1% increase in earnings during the 12 months to April
reflects a number of factors, including wage growth and changes
in the composition of employment by industry, occupation and
level of job experience.  Average hours worked per week also contributed to the
increase in earnings. In April, non-farm payroll employees
worked an average of 33.0 hours per week, up from 32.9 in March.
Compared to one year earlier, hours worked also increased from
32.9 hours. This increase follows five consecutive months of
year-over-year declines.  Average weekly earnings by sector  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings outpaced
the national average of 3.1% in three of  Canada ’s largest
industrial sectors: wholesale trade, construction and retail
trade. In contrast, earnings growth in health care and social
assistance declined.  Average weekly earnings in wholesale trade increased 8.5%
to $1,096.42. Growth occurred in most industries in this sector,
most notably among wholesaler-distributors of personal and
household goods and in machinery, equipment and supplies.  In construction, weekly earnings increased 6.9% to
$1,141.62 in the 12 months to April. Growth was widespread
across all industries in this sector, and particularly strong
among employees in building construction.  In retail trade, one of the lowest-paid sectors on average,
weekly earnings rose 4.4% to $531.00. There were notable gains
among retail stores for clothing and clothing accessories;
electronics and appliances; and general merchandise.  Weekly earnings of payroll employees in health care and
social assistance fell 1.2% to $815.93. Earnings declined in
nursing and residential care facilities; ambulatory services and
social assistance.  Average weekly earnings up in every province  Average weekly earnings increased in every province in the
12 months to April, with the highest growth in Newfoundland and
Labrador.  In Newfoundland and Labrador, average weekly earnings
increased 6.5% to $931.77, the second highest wage level among
the provinces after  Alberta . Year-over-year earnings growth in
Newfoundland and Labrador has been above the national average
since December 2010.  In Saskatchewan, average weekly earnings were $912.78 in
April, up 4.0% from 12 months earlier. Earnings in the province
have exceeded the national average since August 2011.  In Alberta, average weekly earnings in the 12 months to
April grew 3.5% to $1,066.83, the highest level in the country.
In  Quebec , earnings rose 3.3% to $818.43.  The lowest year-over-year growth was in Manitoba and
Ontario, where earnings increased by 2.1% in each province. In
April, average weekly earnings in Manitoba amounted to $825.95,
and in Ontario, $910.23.  Non-farm payroll employment by sector  Total non-farm payroll employment increased by 13,500 in
April. Most sectors showed gains, with the largest in
accommodation and food services; professional, scientific and
technical services; and retail trade. The most notable job
decline was in manufacturing.  From April 2011 to April 2012, the total number of non-farm
payroll employees rose 1.4% (+208,000). Among all sectors,
mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction posted the highest
growth rate at 4.4%, followed by construction at 4.0%.  Note to readers  The Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH) is a
business census of non-farm payroll employees. Its key objective
is to provide a monthly portrait of the level of earnings, the
number of jobs and hours worked by detailed industry at the
national, provincial and territorial level.  Statistics Canada also produces employment estimates from
its monthly Labour Force Survey (LFS). The LFS is a household
survey, the main objective of which is to divide the working-age
population into three mutually exclusive groups: the employed
(including the self-employed), unemployed and not in the labour
force. This survey is the official source for the  unemployment
rate  and collects data on the socio-demographic characteristics
of all those in the labour market.  As a result of conceptual and methodological differences,
estimates of changes from SEPH and LFS do differ from time to
time. However, the trends in the data are quite similar.  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations.  Non-farm payroll employment data are for all hourly and
salaried employees, as well as the “other employees” category,
which includes piece-rate and commission-only employees.  Average weekly hours data are for hourly and salaried
employees only and exclude businesses that could not be
classified to a North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS) code.  All earnings data include overtime pay and exclude
businesses that could not be classified to a NAICS code.
Earnings data are based on gross taxable payroll before source
deductions.  Average weekly earnings are derived by dividing total
weekly earnings by the number of employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  