-- Carbon Errors Make Australia Wiser as Gillard Sets Price Record
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-06-28T04:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/carbon-errors-make-australia-wiser-as-gillard-sets-price-record.html
Australia  is setting the world’s
highest price on  carbon emissions  as it seeks to avoid mistakes
made when Europe started the biggest cap-and-trade system seven
years ago.  The country of 22.5 million people, with the most emissions
per capita among developed nations, will charge almost 300 of
Australia’s largest polluters a fixed price of A$23 ($23.15) a
metric ton for their  greenhouse gases  for the year starting July
1. European Union carbon allowances closed yesterday at 7.97
euros ($10) a ton on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is counting on payouts and
credits worth about A$30 billion over the next four years to
appease Australian business and households facing higher power
bills. The climate law she pushed through Parliament last year
also allows Australia to reduce its supply of permits to support
prices. The cost of European Union carbon allowances plunged to 
a record low this year after it gave away too many, failing to
foresee falling demand because of the recession and debt crisis.  “Europe pioneered this, and the whole point of being a
leader is that you are learning by doing, and sometimes making a
lot of mistakes,” said Anthony Hobley, the global head of
climate change at the law firm Norton Rose LLP who consulted
with the EU on the design of its emissions registry and worked
on the first  emissions-trading  contracts in Europe. “Australia
has the advantage of being able to learn from those.”  ‘Toxic Tax’  Carbon pricing is Australia’s main tool for meeting its
target of a 5 percent cut in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2020.
The levy will be fixed until 2015, when the country plans to
to introduce a market-based system. By opting for cap and 
trade, which lets emitters buy and sell a fixed number of
pollution permits, Gillard is endorsing a system that has been
rejected at the national level in the U.S. and dubbed “a toxic
tax” by Australia’s opposition party.  That criticism isn’t stopping governments around the world
from adopting carbon pricing.  California , the largest state in
the U.S., is scheduled to start a cap-and-trade system next year
and link it with the Canadian province of  Quebec . Seven
manufacturing regions in  China  are set for pilot trading
programs in 2013, and South Korean lawmakers voted to begin
emissions trading by 2015.  “The cheapest and most efficient way of reducing carbon
pollution is to harness the power of the market, to put a price
tag on greenhouse gas emissions that creates an incentive to cut
them,” Australian Climate Minister  Greg Combet  said on June 20.  Price Floor  Australia has built price ceilings and floors into the
market-based system for the three years to 2018 to protect
against spikes or plunges. These boundaries have drawn criticism
from independent lawmaker  Rob Oakeshott , a supporter of Gillard
who helped her form a minority government in 2010.  The price of Australian allowances may be higher than
international credits when the market-based system starts in
2015, posing a risk to investment in the country, Oakeshott said
last month, according to the Australian Broadcasting Corp.  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott , whose Liberal-National
coalition is ahead of Gillard’s Labor government in opinion
polls, has said the carbon levy will “act as a  wrecking ball 
across the economy.”  Abbott has vowed to repeal the legislation if he wins a
leadership role in next year’s election. He couldn’t rescind the
policy before the end of 2014, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a
note dated June 18.  Europe’s Surplus  Australia will set the annual supply of permits five years
in advance. That offers more leeway for adjusting supply than in
Europe, which locked in its cap through 2020 more than a decade
beforehand and needs member states to agree before any revisions
can be made.  This has led to a surplus of allowances that dragged the
price to a record low of 5.99 euros ($7.50) in April. While the
falling price eases the burden on the more than 12,000 emitters
covered in the European program, it works against the goal of
discouraging use of coal, oil and other fossil fuels, and
provides little incentive to invest in cleaner technologies.  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, is
considering options to improve the carbon market and address the
oversupply, while members of the 27-nation bloc remain divided
on whether to amend its climate policies. There will be a
surplus for the next 12 years unless policy makers intervene,
according to a study published June 11 by the Oko Institut for
Greenpeace and WWF.  Falling Prices  “ Europe  can’t easily tighten its emissions cap, and it’s
now got a carbon price that is so low that it’s not delivering
what it was set up to do,” Seb Henbest, a Sydney-based analyst
at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said in a telephone interview.
“That is to provide a price that is high enough to diversify
Europe’s energy mix into renewables and other low-carbon
technologies from fossil fuels.”  EU carbon permits have declined 41 percent from a year ago
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. They settled at
7.97 euros a ton yesterday, compared with a high of 18.27 euros
in May last year.  The Australian price of A$23 a ton will increase by 2.5
percent each year, plus inflation, before shifting to cap and
trade in 2015. The  Climate Change Authority  will set the
emissions limit for each of the five years through 2019 by May
31, 2014, according to the published plan. The 2020 cap will be
set by June 30, 2016, and supply will continue to be set
annually from then, five years ahead.  Rising Emissions  “The scheme has about seven years of European experience
to draw on, and I think the Australian model picked up key
lessons from Europe,” said Tim Jordan, a Sydney-based analyst
at Deutsche Bank AG. “The rolling caps on permit supply that
have been adopted are a direct learning experience from the
European model. It’s a really clever bit of architecture.”  Australia’s greenhouse gas emissions rose 0.6 percent to
546 million tons in 2011, data from the Department of  Climate
Change  and Energy Efficiency showed in April  Australia expects to raise A$24.7 billion over four years
after the tax starts in July, the government said in budget
documents last month. Electricity prices will climb by as much
as 10 percent, or an average of A$3.30 a week per household,
according to Combet, who cited treasury modeling.  The government will provide A$9.2 billion over three years
in the form of free permits to assist businesses such as
aluminum smelting, steelmaking and pulp manufacturing. Power
generators will get A$5.5 billion, while consumers will receive
A$14.9 billion through tax changes and benefits.  Steel manufacturers, aluminum smelters and other industries
facing global competition will pay an average of A$1.30 a ton of
carbon when the tax starts in July, Combet said in May. Some
companies in this group will get as much as 95 percent of their
permits for free, he said.  “Our plan will reduce emissions while supporting economic
growth,” Combet said. “Our plan assists households and
supports jobs and competitiveness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  