-- Celpa Shareholder Rede Said to Accept Acquisition Bid
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-06-28T03:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/celpa-shareholder-rede-said-to-accept-acquisition-bid.html
Centrais Eletricas do Para SA ’s
controlling shareholder  Rede Energia (REDE4)  SA accepted a buyout bid
for the bankrupt utility from private-equity fund Vinci Partners
Investimentos Ltda., said two people familiar with the deal.  Vinci’s Equatorial Energia SA energy fund plans to merge
Belem, Brazil-based Celpa, as the company is known, with Cia.
Energetica do Maranhao, known as Cemar, a Brazilian utility
based in Sao Luis, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are private.  Any acquisition proposal would need approval from other
Celpa shareholders, creditors and bondholders, Rede Energia said
yesterday in a regulatory filing. Rede Energia said it will give
Vinci’s fund the right of first refusal for a period of
negotiations. Officials at Vinci Partners, Celpa, Rede Energia
and Cemar declined to comment.  Creditors of Celpa’s 2.3 billion reais ($1.1 billion) of
debt include Societe Generale SA, Banco do Brasil SA,  Bank of
America Corp. , Banco Bradesco SA and Itau Unibanco Holding SA,
according to Celpa regulatory filings.  Vinci Partners, founded by Gilberto Sayao and other former
Banco BTG Pactual SA executives, owns 65 percent of Cemar
through the Equatorial fund, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Celpa, which distributes electricity to 7.4 million people
in 143 municipalities in northern  Brazil , filed for bankruptcy
on Feb. 28 amid growing debt and more than four years without a
rate increase. Brazil’s government isn’t planning to take
control of Celpa and would step in only if needed to ensure
power distribution, Energy Minister Edison Lobao said March 13.  Rede Energia holds about 65 percent of Celpa, and the
state-controlled  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , known as
Eletrobras, owns about 35 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Eletrobras also owns a Cemar stake of about 33.5 percent.  Defaulted bonds sold by Celpa traded yesterday at 25.5
cents on the dollar in  New York , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fabiola Moura at   fdemoura@bloomberg.net  