-- CERN Calls ‘God-Particle’ Discovery Speculation Premature
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-06-28T09:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/cern-calls-god-particle-discovery-speculation-premature.html
CERN, the European Organization for
Nuclear Research, said speculation it may soon report the
discovery of the so-called God particle is premature because
researchers are still analyzing data.  CERN plans to present preliminary findings from its search
for the particle, also known as the Higgs boson, on July 4 as an
international physics conference begins. The discovery of the
boson, theorized as allowing particles to generate mass, may be
“imminent,” Le Temps, a Geneva-based newspaper, reported
today, citing speculation on physics blogs.  “It’s a very exciting time in particle physics because we
know that we’re on the verge of either showing that this thing
exists or not,” James Gillies, a spokesman at Geneva-based
CERN, said in a phone interview. “Today, it’s simply premature
to say for sure whether we’re going to be announcing that next
week or not.”  Finding the  Higgs boson , named after U.K. physicist Peter Higgs, would validate the Standard Model, a theory explaining
how the universe is built, and could be a gateway to verifying
other parts of physics such as superparticles or dark matter.
The research would help scientists gain a better understanding
of the universe and how galaxies hold together.  Time Needed  CERN said June 22 that “if and when” it finds a new
particle, the research group “will need time to ascertain
whether it is the long-sought Higgs boson, the last missing
ingredient of the Standard Model of particle physics, or whether
it is a more exotic form of the boson that could open the door
to new physics.”  Next week’s seminar is a “curtain-raiser” to the bi-
annual  International Conference on High Energy Physics  scheduled
for July 4 to 11 in  Melbourne , CERN said.  Researchers are still studying data and refining
experiments, Gillies said today.  The press conference that CERN plans for July 4 “will
definitely be the long-awaited Higgs discovery announcement”
following two experiments “and a high standard of evidence,”
Peter Woit, a mathematics professor at  Columbia University  in
 New York , wrote on his  blog  on June 22.  CERN Director General Rolf-Dieter Heuer has said if its
researchers don’t find the particle by the end of this year,
they will exclude its existence. Failing to find the Higgs boson
would lend credibility to alternative theories that explain the
mechanism that allows particles to have mass.  U.S. scientists found some evidence of the existence of the
Higgs boson in two independent experiments, the Department of
Energy’s Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory  said  March 7. The
clues weren’t strong enough to declare the so-called God
particle cornered, the laboratory said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  