-- Best Chile Stock Picker Buys Cencosud, Shorts Falabella
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-06-28T16:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/chile-s-best-stock-picker-buying-cencosud-shorting-falabella.html
Chile’s top stock picker this year
is buying  Cencosud SA (CENCOSUD)  and selling its peer  SACI Falabella (FALAB)  on a
bet the retailers’ valuations will converge.  Rodrigo Rojas, who manages the $10 million Chile Accion
fund for Celfin Capital SA, is wagering that Cencosud, the
country’s largest retailer by sales, is due to rally after
dropping 8.1 percent this year and that Falabella’s 14 percent
increase may be excessive.  His fund  has gained 10.5 percent in
2012, the most among Chile-based mutual funds that invest in
local stocks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We shorted Falabella and that way financed a purchase of
Cencosud shares,” Rojas said in a telephone interview yesterday
from Santiago. “If the whole market gains, and in that case we
think Cencosud should outperform, we stand to gain. If the whole
market slumps, and Falabella underperforms, we win again.”  Chile ’s benchmark Ipsa index has retreated 7.4 percent in
the second quarter, after a 12 percent gain in the first three
months of the year, as concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis would
deepen stifled demand for emerging-market assets.  “Investing in the local equity market will remain
complicated in the short and medium term because of Europe,”
said Rojas, who helps manage about $500 million in several
Chilean equity funds. “That’s the benefit of an actively
managed fund in which we can do long and short investing.”  Stock Valuations  Cencosud is trading at 18 times its estimated earnings for
the next 12 months, 17 percent below its four-year average of
21.8 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Falabella,
Chile’s largest retailer by market value, trades at 22.6 times
estimated earnings, an 8.5 percent discount compared to its
four-year average of 24.7 times.  Falabella slid 1 percent to 4,560 pesos at 11:58 a.m. in
Santiago while Cencosud was little changed.  Rojas said his Chilean Accion fund has been overweight on
electricity companies  AES Gener SA (AESGENER)  and  E-CL SA (ECL) , which rely
mostly on thermoelectric power and have projects in northern
Chile. It doesn’t own  Empresa Nacional (ENDESA)  de Electricidad SA or
 Colbun SA (COLBUN) , which rely mostly on hydroelectricity.  “We see very little growth on Endesa and Colbun,” he
said.  The Chile Accion fund is also betting on gains for
winemaker  Vina Concha & Toro SA (CONCHA)  because of valuations and as a
hedge to a weakening peso. Concha & Toro has fallen 2.5 percent
this year to 965 pesos.  “Its sales have been slowing and it has exposure to
Europe, but it was cheap when it fell under 900 pesos and it
stands to gain if the peso weakens,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  