-- China’s Housing Curbs Will Remain ‘Tight,’ Shui On’s Lee Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-06-28T00:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/china-s-housing-curbs-will-remain-tight-shui-on-s-lee-says.html
The Chinese government’s curbs on
the housing market will remain “tight” this year, preventing
transactions and prices from rebounding significantly, according
to  Shui On Land Ltd. (272) , the developer controlled by  Hong Kong 
billionaire Vincent Lo.  “The volume of transactions has increased and sentiment is
improving, but any substantial turnaround is unlikely,” said
Freddy Lee, chief executive officer of Shanghai-based Shui On,
in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday. “I feel that prices
will maintain where they are for a while.”  China has pledged to maintain its curbs on the housing
market even as economic growth is slowing, prompting the central
bank to cut borrowing costs for the first time since 2008 on
June 7. The Housing Ministry said this month that China will
steadfastly continue with its property curbs that have so far
included higher down payment requirements and restrictions on
the number of homes being bought.  China ’s home values fell in a record 54 of 70 cities
tracked by the government in May as developers cut prices.  Shui On, which developed the  Xintiandi  entertainment
complex from century-old homes in  Shanghai , is accelerating
development in Chinese cities including Chongqing, Wuhan and
Foshan. The developer last month said it plans to sell shares in
the complex unit to investors in a separate listing in Hong Kong.  The company has begun seeking tenants for its shopping mall
in Chongqing and the level of rents has “been better than what
we’ve expected,” said Lee, without elaborating.  Shui On’s first Xintiandi project is a residential and
commercial complex in Shanghai built through the redevelopment
of houses dating back to the 19th and 20th centuries. The
complex, whose name means New Heaven and Earth in Chinese,
attracted local and international chains including Paulaner
Brahaus and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  