-- China Local Government Finances Are Unsustainable, Auditor Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-28T03:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/china-local-government-finances-are-unsustainable-auditor-says.html
The finances of  China ’s county-level
governments are unstable and unsustainable as the majority of
their fiscal income comes from sources other than taxation, the
nation’s top auditor said.  About 60 percent of revenue raised last year by 54 counties
investigated by the National Audit Office wasn’t derived from
taxes, Liu Jiayi, the head of the agency, told a meeting of the
legislature yesterday, according to a transcript of his speech
on the audit office’s website. Total fiscal revenue at those
counties rose 17 percent to 112 billion yuan ($17.6 billion)
last year, Liu said.  China shelved a plan earlier this week to allow local
governments to sell bonds directly amid concern that the
companies they set up to borrow money will default on some
loans. Debt racked up by local governments and their entities
stood at about 10.7 trillion  yuan  at the end of 2010, with 17
percent maturing this year and 11 percent next year, according
to an audit office report released last year.  “The proportion of non-tax income in fiscal revenue is
relatively high at county-level governments, pointing to
relatively poor stability and sustainability,” Liu said,
without specifying the other sources of revenue.  Non- tax revenue  includes administrative fees, fines,
lottery income, foreign aid and income from “the use of state-
owned resources,” according to information on the Ministry of
Finance website.  Growth Targets  Central government subsidies to county and township
authorities last year were more than three times the level of
2005, Liu said. At the same time, local governments are facing
larger expenditure pressure, with mandatory growth targets for
spending on areas including education, agriculture and science
and technology, he said.  China has more than 1,600 county-level governments,
according to the Ministry of Civil Affairs.  The central government should distribute more tax revenue
to local authorities to help them meet rising city construction
and public welfare costs, lawmakers said yesterday, according to
a report in today’s  China Daily .  Local governments have been forced to turn to non-tax
income such as land sales and to increase debt because of the
imbalance in tax revenue and spending obligations with the
central government,  Jia Kang , director of the finance ministry’s
Institute of Fiscal Science, was cited by the paper as saying.  In a separate investigation, the audit office found some
ministries misstated revenue or violated fiscal regulations,
according to Liu.  The Ministry of Finance underreported 1.92 billion yuan of
revenue in its budget implementation report to the legislature
last year, he said. The National Development and Reform
Commission ordered investments of 46.8 billion yuan last year in
a manner that failed to strictly follow procedures, Liu said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  