-- China Stocks to Extend Drop After Losing 2012 Gains
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-28T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/china-stocks-to-extend-drop-after-losing-2012-gains-bocom-says.html
China’s stocks  are poised to extend
losses after erasing this year’s gains amid concerns over a
slowing economy, according to the only strategist who forecast
declines for Chinese shares in 2012.  The economy probably expanded at a “subpar” rate in the
second quarter and investors should buy shares of companies such
as consumer-staples producers, whose earnings may be sheltered
from the slowdown, Hao Hong, head of Chinese research at Bank of
Communications Co. in  Hong Kong , said by e-mail yesterday,
declining to name stocks. The Shanghai Composite Index may fall
“briefly” below 2,000 in a worse-case scenario, he said.  The gauge is down 0.2 percent this year after losing 1
percent yesterday to 2,195.84, the lowest level since Jan. 6. It
tumbled 7.4 percent in June, the second-worst performance of 95
major indexes tracked by Bloomberg, as lower-than-estimated
industrial output and retail sales data overshadowed the central
bank’s first interest-rate cut since 2008.  “The market is collapsing,” said Hong, who was previously 
a global equity strategist at China International Capital Corp. 
“I am again waiting for a capitulation like the one in January.”  The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  sank to a three-year low on Jan. 5
before rallying 15 percent through March 2 amid speculation the
government would ease monetary policy to bolster an economy that
grew by the slowest pace in almost three years in the first
quarter. The People’s Bank of China cut lending and deposit
rates by a quarter percentage point on June 8 and has lowered
banks’ reserve ratios three times since November.  Lone Voice  Hong was the only strategist among 13 brokerages surveyed
by Bloomberg at the start of the year who forecast declines for
Chinese stocks in 2012. At CICC, he accurately predicted a slump
for the Shanghai Composite in 2010 and turned cautious on
equities in April 2011 as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and HSBC
Holdings Plc recommended buying more shares. The Shanghai gauge
fell a combined 33 percent in 2010 and 2011.  Hong joins Yu Guang of Invesco Great Wall Fund Management
Co.,  China ’s best-performing fund manager this year, in
foreseeing faltering growth. The economy will probably stay in
the “doldrums” in coming months, preventing a second-half
rally for equities, Yu said in a June 21 interview. Yu’s Core
Competitiveness Fund returned 25 percent this year, ranking it
first among 714 China-based mutual funds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg as of June 25.  Lower Target  China’s economy  grew 8.1 percent in the three months to
March 30, the least since the second quarter of 2009, as the
slowing global economy dragged on the nation’s exports.  Europe ’s
debt crisis has hurt the outlook for China’s shipments to its
biggest trading partner. Premier  Wen Jiabao  announced on March 5
a growth target of 7.5 percent for this year, down from an 8
percent goal in place since 2005.  Second-quarter gross domestic product figures are scheduled
for release on July 13. Daiwa Securities Group Inc.,  Japan ’s
second-largest brokerage, lowered on June 27 its forecast for
growth in the period to 7.8 percent from 8.2 percent. That rate
would be the slowest since the first quarter of 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Second-quarter growth is likely to be subpar,” Hong
said. “Besides Europe, people were hoping for a V-shape
cyclical recovery. But now things are not what they seem.”  Market liquidity remains tight while “a large portion” of
new loan growth is being conducted through bank discounted notes
and bills in a sign that companies are borrowing for working
capital rather than investment, he said.  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, increased 53 basis points
this quarter, after declining 215 basis points in the first
three months of the year.  The Shanghai Composite’s valuation dropped to 9.6 times
estimated profit yesterday, the lowest level since March 29,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The MSCI BRIC Index, which
measures equities in the largest  emerging markets  of  Brazil ,
 Russia ,  India  and China, is valued at 8.3 times profit.  “The market will likely make a new low,” Hong said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  