-- China Gas’ 3 Biggest Investors Get Majority Control
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-06-28T07:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/china-gas-three-biggest-investors-get-control-of-majority-stake.html
(Corrects shares bought, price and stake in second
paragraph, holding in third paragraph.)  A  China Gas Holdings Ltd. (384)  investor
increased its stake in the utility, giving the three largest
shareholders control of more than half of the company that’s the
target of a $2 billion hostile takeover bid.  Beijing Enterprises Group bought 132.4 million China Gas
shares yesterday at between HK$3.68 and HK$4 apiece, raising its
holding to 17.96 percent, according to a filing to the Hong Kong
Securities and Futures Commission today.  Beijing Enterprises Group, the single-biggest shareholder
of China Gas, along with a group led by  Fortune Oil Plc (FTO)  of Hong
Kong and  South Korea ’s SK Holdings Co. hold a combined 50.96
percent of the fuel supplier’s shares. The investors increased
their stake after  ENN Energy Holdings Ltd. (2688)  and  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (600028)  bid HK$3.5 a share in December to take over the
company and extended the acquisition deadline twice.  “This development effectively ends any illusion that the
bidders may have been able to get a steal under the current
offer price,” said Shi Yan, a Shanghai-based analyst at UOB-Kay
Hian Ltd. “The bidders can either walk away or raise the offer
price substantially.”  China Gas, which is scheduled to announce its annual
results today, fell 1.6 percent to HK$3.81 as of 1:55 p.m. in
Hong Kong. The benchmark  Hang Seng  index gained 0.1 percent.  China Gas has rejected the takeover bid, saying it’s
opportunistic and fails to reflect the company’s value.  Premium Purchases  Zhang Honghai, Chief Executive Officer of  Beijing
Enterprises Holdings Ltd. (392) , the Hong Kong-listed unit of Beijing
Enterprises Group, said in Hong Kong on June 11 the parent would
consider selling its stake for at least a profit. The Beijing
city government-owned group paid as much as HK$4.11 a share, a
17 percent premium to the offer, to increase it stake.  The Fortune Oil-led group, which owns 17.67 percent of
China Gas, and SK Holdings with 15.33 percent bought shares at
prices higher than HK$3.50 each as ENN and China Petroleum
repeatedly rejected the idea of raising the offer.  The three biggest shareholders held 47.9 percent of the
company before Beijing Enterprises Group’s purchases yesterday.  ENN will host an extraordinary general meeting on July 6 to
seek shareholder approval for the takeover proposal. ENN Chief
Financial Officer Wilson Cheng said on June 26 he’s
“confident” shareholders will approve the bid and declined to
comment further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  