-- China’s Stock Index Drops for Seventh Day on Earnings Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-28T05:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/china-s-stock-futures-rise-on-policy-outlook-u-s-economic-data.html
China’s benchmark stock index  slid
for a seventh day, the longest stretch of losses in 13 months,
as concern the nation’s economic slowdown is curbing earnings
growth overshadowed an improving outlook for exports to the U.S.  Dongfang Electric Corp. (600875)  paced a decline for industrial
companies on concern slowing growth will sap demand. Inner
Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare Earth Hi-Tech led a gauge of material
producers to the steepest loss among industry groups after the
U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  asked the  World Trade Organization  to
resolve a dispute over  China ’s limits on rare earth exports. The
Shanghai Composite Index is the world’s second-worst performing
benchmark index this month, with trading values on the exchange
tumbling to the lowest level in five months.  “The economy is still slowing and earnings growth
forecasts have further room to be revised downward,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co.,
which oversees $285 million. “Weak sentiment will dominate as
investors have no idea how slow earnings growth will be.”  The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  slipped 2.12 points, or 0.1 percent,
to 2,214.82 as of 1:10 p.m. local time. Almost the same number
of stocks rose as those that fell. The 7-day drop is the longest
since the eight days ended May 30, 2011. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
slipped less than 0.1 percent to 2,446.16. The  Bloomberg China-
US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, added 1.1 percent in  New York  yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 6.6 percent in June on
concern the government isn’t loosening monetary policy quick
enough to stem a slowdown. Stocks in the measure are valued at
9.68 times estimated earnings, compared with the average of 17.6
since Bloomberg began compiling the  data  in 2006.  Industrial Stocks  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at
14.94 today, compared with this year’s average of 18.32. About
5.1 billion shares changed hands in the gauge yesterday, 41
percent lower than the daily average this year.  Dongfang Electric, China’s second-biggest maker of power
equipment, tumbled 6.5 percent to 18.17  yuan , the biggest
decline this year. Shanghai Electric Group Co., China’s largest
maker of power equipment, lost 2.7 percent to 4.70 yuan.  China’s economy  is still slowing, resulting in weaker
demand for industrial products, Zhang Yuande, analyst at Founder
Securities Co., said in phone interview from Beijing.  Economic data this weekend may show China’s manufacturing
is contracting. The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index compiled by the
statistics bureau and logistics federation may drop to 49.8 this
month, falling below the dividing line of 50 for expansion and
contraction, according to the median estimate of 19 economists
in a Bloomberg survey. The figure is due July 1.  Policy Outlook  Inner Mongolia Baotou, China’s biggest producer of rare
earth, declined 2.6 percent to 39.10 yuan. The European Union
requested the creation of a dispute-settlement panel at the WTO
on China’s export restrictions on rare earths, tungsten and
molybdenum. China, which supplies 90 percent of the world’s rare
earth, has said it curbed exports of rare earths to conserve
minerals and protect environment.  “The biggest negative right now for Chinese stocks is that
earnings are being cut,”  Steven Bell , who manages $600 million
in assets as principal portfolio manager at the GLC Ltd., a
London-based hedge fund, said by phone yesterday. “So a mild
broad-based stimulus is likely and it’s a reason investors may
get in there.”  Gansu Qilianshan Cement Group Co. said first-half profit
may drop more than 50 percent from a year earlier. China
Resources Cement, a Hong Kong-listed producer, fell 4.3 percent
after saying yesterday it expects interim profit to fall
“significantly.”  Chinese preferential tax policies for corporate pension and
pension insurance may be released this year, the China
Securities Journal reported today, citing unidentified people.
The policy may be in the form of delayed taxation on the pension
funds to reduce the amount of tax paid, it said.  Drugmakers Gain  Bank of America Corp. expects China’s central bank to cut
lenders’ reserve requirement ratio “in weeks,” economist Lu
Ting wrote in a note yesterday. The government may lower the
reserve ratio three more times from now until the year-end to
stabilize economic growth, Lu wrote.  Xiamen Port Development Co. surged 10 percent to 6.41 yuan.
Parent Xiamen International Port Co. said yesterday the
government will pay compensation for taking over parcels of land
for public development.  A measure of health-care stocks gained 1 percent, the most
among the 10 industry groups. Beijing Tongrentang Co. jumped 4.7
percent to 16.84 yuan.  Yunnan Baiyao Group Co. (000538)  rose 2.4 percent
to 58.23 yuan.  Investors expect Chinese health-care companies
to report improving sales in June, Yang Ying, an analyst at
Tebon Securities Co., said yesterday.  Chinese stocks traded in New York rose for a second day
yesterday, as Giant Interactive Group Inc. surged the most since
April, on prospects the government will take steps to shore up
flagging growth in  Asia ’s largest economy.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., increased 1.4 percent in its
second day of gains to $32.63.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  