-- Christie ‘S.O.B.’ Epithet Joins Verbal Attacks That Boost Image
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-06-28T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/christie-s-o-b-epithet-joins-verbal-attacks-that-boost-image.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ,
who called a Democratic state senator an “arrogant S.O.B.”
this week, joins a distinguished and bipartisan line of
politicians who have employed the term. It may help him too.  The “S.O.B.” line is the latest in a series of insults
the Republican governor has leveled at critics. He’s called them
a “joke,” a “jerk,” an “idiot,” “numbnuts” and a
“handmaiden” for the Democrats.  He’s doing it because it works, said  Thomas Mann , a senior
fellow at the  Brookings Institution , a nonprofit public-policy
organization in  Washington .  “It’s now part of his M.O.,” Mann said of Christie’s
propensity for profanity. “It’s part of the Christie brand,
which means to speak with great authority, confidence and
aggressiveness at anyone who seems to be in his way. Thus far,
it’s probably helped him with the public.”  In a town hall meeting yesterday in Mahwah, Christie, 49,
defended his use of coarse language.  “You may not agree with me all the time, but you never
have to wonder what I’m saying,” he said. “I’m pretty clear
and I’m pretty direct. Some people agree with that, and some
people don’t. I’m not looking to win a popularity contest, and
you didn’t elect me prom king. You elected me governor.”  Romney Surrogate  Christie, who turned down requests to run for president
this year, has acted as a surrogate for presumptive Republican
nominee  Mitt Romney . Andrea Saul, a Romney campaign spokeswoman,
didn’t respond to a request for comment on how Christie’s
demeanor compares with the more buttoned-up image projected by
the former Massachusetts governor.  Amanda De Palma, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey
Republican Party, didn’t respond to a request for an interview
with its chairman, Saddle River Mayor Samuel S. Raia.  Christie’s aggressiveness hasn’t harmed the Republican
image because such behavior has become so common that it’s no
longer exceptional, said Mann.  Anna Post, great-great-granddaughter of etiquette author
Emily Post, said potty-mouthed politicians should set a better
example.  “Intelligent people have a choice of words, so use your
options,” she said. “It’s really scraping the bottom of the
barrel when it comes to civility, and it doesn’t matter who’s
saying it. There is no scenario in which I see that kind of
language being merited or being useful.”  Truman, Nixon  Political leaders have still found it handy. With his
latest comment, Christie placed himself in the company of former
Presidents  Richard Nixon ,  Lyndon Johnson  and  Harry Truman , and
Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy.  For Nixon, “son of a bitch” was the pejorative of choice
for the gunman who attempted to assassinate Alabama Governor
George C. Wallace in the early 1970s. Johnson added “commie”
before it in 1967 to describe Andreas  George Papandreou ,
 Greece ’s first socialist prime minister, and Harry Truman added
the adjective “dumb” for General Douglas MacArthur, whom he’d
fired as supreme commander in  Korea . Kennedy in 1962 made it
plural to reference the Russians.  John Tomicki, executive director of the League of American
Families, a faith-based conservative group representing 100,000
households in New Jersey, said he doesn’t want Christie’s
conduct to distract from his accomplishments.  Tone It Down  “I’m sure he regrets it and that doesn’t excuse it, but we
all make mistakes,” he said. “At least his policies are going
in the right direction.”  Tomicki said he met with one of Christie’s predecessors who
used particularly egregious language while in office and asked
him to tone it down. Christie hasn’t come close to that level
yet, he said.  Christie, who took office in 2010, employed the “S.O.B.”
term June 26 at a public meeting in Brick Township to describe
Senator  Paul Sarlo , a Wood-Ridge Democrat who heads the state
Legislature’s budget panel. The governor’s remarks followed a
delay by Democrats, who control the statehouse in Trenton, of a
 tax cut  in the $31.7 billion budget they sent him.  Having the governor call you names has become a “badge of
honor,” Sarlo said in a statement. He said he wouldn’t resort
to name-calling in response.  The etymology of Christie’s latest slur is clear, said
Larry Mitchell, a professor of English at  Texas A&M University 
in  College Station  who collects slang and dialect dictionaries
dating back to the 18th century.  Long History  In “A Dictionary of Slang and Unconventional English,”
author Eric Partridge dated the first printed appearance of
“son of a bitch” to 1712 in “The Triumph of Wit.” It
probably existed well before that, Mitchell said.  He also found other iterations of insults beginning with
“son.” They include “son of prattlement,” for a lawyer and
the familiar “son of a gun,” which the “Dictionary of Slang,
Jargon and Cant” from 1897 labels “an epithet conveying
contempt in a slight degree.”  Contempt has become a political tool for New Jersey’s
governor.  Democratic U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg  says he’s
collected thousands of signatures for a petition telling
Christie that voters are sick of “childish name-calling,” the
senator said in an e-mail. “Governance is about dialogue, not
diatribes.”  Profanity suggests arrogance, said Post, who is a
spokeswoman for the Emily Post Institute in Burlington,  Vermont .  “Whenever anyone resorts to being crass or shocking like
that, it’s usually because it’s the only way they can get a
reaction,” she said. “We can get so emotional about politics,
and that’s why it’s even more important to express ourselves
properly. Smart politicians know how to do that well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 Edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  