-- Chrysler Sees U.S. June Auto Sales in Line With May
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-06-28T16:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/chrysler-sees-june-u-s-vehicle-sales-in-line-with-may-s.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the carmaker
controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , sees U.S. auto sales in June running at
about the pace of May, the industry’s slowest month of 2012.  “We’re going to have a similar industry from a SAAR
perspective that we had in May in June,”  Reid Bigland ,
Chrysler’s head of U.S. sales, said today at the automaker’s
proving grounds in Chelsea, Michigan. “We probably had a little
bit of a pull-ahead into February and March” because of mild
winter weather and “brighter prospects about the economy.”  Chrysler joins  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S.
automaker, which sees the industry sales pace in June being in
line with May’s 13.8 million seasonally adjusted annualized
rate, or SAAR, the slowest this year, according to researcher
Autodata Corp.  U.S. vehicle sales, including medium- and heavy-duty
trucks, are on pace for a low-14 million sales in June,
“consistent with May,”  Mark Fields , Ford’s president of the
Americas, told reporters on June 26 in Dearborn, Michigan.
Excluding medium-and heavy-duty deliveries usually lowers the
rate by about 200,000 to 300,000 units.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of Chrysler and
Fiat, is counting on U.S. growth this year to offset weakness in
Europe, where sales are headed for a fifth-consecutive year of
declines. Chrysler dealers this month began taking initial
deliveries of the Dodge Dart compact, which Marchionne has said
is the most important new model introduction since 2009.  Dart Sales  Dealers will sell the first “couple hundred” Darts in
June, said Bigland, who is also president of the Dodge brand.
The company has about 1,000 cars in inventory now and its plant
in Belvidere, Illinois, will reach “full blast” output within
the next four weeks, he said.  Chrysler also is considering adding a third shift at its
Ram pickup factory in Warren,  Michigan , Bigland said. The plant
begins making the new Ram 1500 in September.  Ram deliveries rose 27 percent this year through May to
114,630, according to Autodata, which is based in Woodcliff
Lake,  New Jersey .  Chrysler continues to negotiate with a “variety” of
financial institutions after telling  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  in
April that it would let a preferred lending agreement with the
bank expire in April 2013, said Bigland, who declined to
identify any specific companies.  Ally Pact  The pact with Ally required Chrysler to allow the Detroit-
based  lender  to finance a minimum percentage of vehicles sold
with subvented loans, made to consumers at below-market rates.
Automakers pay lenders to make up the difference.  “It remains to be seen” whether Chrysler will select
several lenders to work with going forward, Bigland said.
“Personally, I don’t think competition is a bad thing.”  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Santander Holdings USA Inc., General
Electric Capital Corp., U.S. Bancorp and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
are among banks that have negotiated with Chrysler about its
auto-financing needs, three people familiar with the talks said
in February.  “One positive with respect to the process is a lot of
people want to come in and do some business,” Bigland said.
“In 2009, most of these banks couldn’t finance a lemonade
stand.”  Chrysler, based in  Auburn Hills , Michigan, boosted U.S.
sales by 33 percent this year through May to 689,257 cars and
light trucks. Industrywide deliveries rose 13 percent during
that span, according to Autodata.  Full-year sales for the industry will probably gain about
10 percent to 12 percent, Bigland said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Chelsea, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bill Koenig  at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net  