-- Civil War Redux in U.S. Farm Bill Debate
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-06-28T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/civil-war-redux-in-u-s-farm-bill-debate.html
To make sense of the long quarrel in
Congress over the five-year, $500 billion bill to overhaul
agricultural policy, look back in time, way before red and blue
became the colors that define U.S. politics.  Instead, think the Blue and the Gray. It’s North versus
South, big state against small -- rivalries that date to the
earliest days of the Republic. Lawmakers from Georgia and
Arkansas demand price protections for rice and peanuts.
Midwesterners hold out for generous crop insurance for corn.
Meanwhile, members from Northern cities stand guard over money
for  food stamps .  “The Constitution was set up as a series of compromises
among regions,” says former Kansas Representative  Dan Glickman ,
who was secretary of agriculture under President  Bill Clinton .
“You still see that in the farm bill.”  A massive, twice-a-decade undertaking, the farm bill runs
more than 1,000 pages, detailing the budget for the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture , Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
July 2 issue. It spells out which crops and products will get
special treatment and which won’t; how far the government will
go to protect farmers against losses; and how to divvy up
billions of dollars for research, rural development,
conservation, trade, and agricultural promotion abroad. Most of
the money doesn’t even go to farmers: Four-fifths of the total
is spent on food aid for children and the poor.  Bill’s Roots  The farm bill’s roots extend to the Great Depression, when
the government paid farmers suffering from low prices and
overproduction to dump milk and plow under cotton. Over the
decades, as surpluses disappeared and exports boomed, the system
evolved into a safety net that protected farmers when prices
were low and disasters struck. Since 2002, direct subsidies,
loans, and payments based on crop prices have continued despite
record profits. This year the current farm bill, set to expire
in September, will send $11 billion in subsidies to farmers who
are already expecting profits of $91.7 billion, according to the
USDA.  In better times, wrapping up a farm bill was a matter of
throwing money at everyone. Deficit fears won’t allow that this
year. Federal payments to farmers who don’t need them are an
especially tempting target.  “Frankly, this is an opportunity to make radical changes
to the way farm policy is conducted in America,” says Ken Cook,
head of the  Environmental Working Group , which tracks
agriculture subsidies. “When farmers are so profitable, when is
the time if not now?”  Passed Senate  In the Senate, Republicans joined with Democrats to easily
pass the bill 64-35 on June 21. Don’t expect similar harmony in
the House when it gets to work on its version in July. House
members from Southern states that produce rice and peanuts
complain their Senate colleagues gave too much away.  The Senate’s plan saves $24 billion over 10 years, in part
by replacing $5 billion in yearly crop subsidies with less
costly crop insurance to protect farmers against bad weather or
unexpected price drops. Southerners in the House say this
concession favors profitable Midwestern corn and soybean
growers, who no longer depend on the subsidies. Corn farmers,
who raise a crop worth $76 billion last year, would lose $6
billion in payments over a decade under the Senate bill, while
growers of rice, a $2.6 billion crop, would lose $2.9 billion.  One possible solution -- adding southern-friendly subsidies
to the House bill -- has run straight into funding for food
stamps. The Senate bill would reduce the program by $4.5
billion.  House Republicans  want larger cuts, which may be
necessary to fund bigger crop payments. That could crash any
deal between the Senate and House. Senate Agriculture Committee
Chairwoman  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan Democrat, says deeper
cuts to food stamps are “absolutely unacceptable.”  Congressional leaders say they’d like to reach a deal
before the end of September. That’ll be tough to do in the
middle of presidential and congressional elections. With all of
 Washington  waging the war between the parties, there isn’t much
time left for the war between the states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  