-- Colombia Peso Declines After Santos Calls for Weaker Currency
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-06-28T18:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/colombia-peso-declines-after-santos-calls-for-weaker-currency.html
Colombia’s currency declined after
President  Juan Manuel Santos  asked the central bank to take
“more aggressive” action to weaken the peso and as concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis is getting worse sapped demand for higher-
yielding, emerging-market assets.  The peso slid 0.6 percent to 1,806.50 per dollar. It
touched 1,809.90 on June 26, the weakest level since June 5. The
currency has fallen 1 percent this quarter, paring this year’s
rally to 7.3 percent, still the best performance among world
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Santos told coffee growers in Medellin yesterday that he
asked policy makers to buy more dollars in the  currency market 
to increase the country’s international reserves and weaken the
peso toward 2,000 per dollar. Banco de la Republica holds its
monetary policy meeting tomorrow.  “The peso is weakening in line with global markets amid
concern over Europe,” said Alejandro Reyes, the head analyst at
Ultrabursatiles SA brokerage. “Given the central bank’s meeting
is tomorrow, Santos’s comments are probably also driving
declines.”  The central bank has said it will buy a minimum of $20
million daily in the  spot market  until at least Nov. 2.  Global stocks fell as a two-day European summit started
amid speculation the leaders will fail to agree on a strategy to
solve the euro-region’s debt crisis, and as  Germany ’s
unemployment rate rose.  Colombian policy makers will leave the  overnight lending
rate  unchanged at 5.25 percent tomorrow, according to all 32
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 7 percent, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  