-- Colombia’s Top Coffee Region to Recover Gradually
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-06-28T19:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/colombia-s-top-coffee-region-to-recover-gradually-1-.html
Colombia , the world’s second-largest
supplier of Arabica coffee, will take as many as four years to
recover production in one of its top growing provinces, the
chief of the region’s farmers said.  Harvests will recover “gradually” from above-average
rainfall and disease that has damaged crops since 2009 in the
central province of Antioquia, Luis Fernando Botero,  executive
director  for the region at  Colombia’s National Federation of
Coffee Growers , said in an interview yesterday in Medellin.  “It all depends on the climate,” Botero said. “What
kills us are the excesses.”  Output nationwide will rise to about 8 million bags this
year after dry weather returned, the federation’s Chief
Executive Officer Luis Munoz said yesterday. Colombia produced
7.81 million bags of coffee in 2011, a 35-year low. The crop has
yet to match 2008’s output of 11.5 million bags, attained before
some of the worst rains in Colombia’s history damaged crops.  Antioquia last year lost its ranking as the nation’s
largest coffee-growing province for the first time to the
southern region of Huila after storms battered farms. A slow
recovery in Antioquia is “bullish” for the coffee market,
Sterling Smith, a commodity analyst at Citigroup Inc. in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  “It’s going to provide an ongoing type of support for the
market,” he said.  Falling Prices  Arabica-coffee futures for September delivery slid 1.1
percent to $1.6305 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. at 1 p.m. in  New
York . Coffee pared declines after Botero’s comments.  Coffee has dropped 28 percent this year on speculation
supplies will increase from  Brazil , the largest producer of
Arabica coffee favored by brewers such as  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)   The steep mountainsides of Antioquia are covered in farms
run by families that depend on coffee as their main source of
income, Botero said from the provincial capital.  Production in the region will be a “little better” in the
last six months of the year from a year earlier because of drier
weather, he said. Flowering began “very well” this month for
plants that will need a balance of sunshine and rainfall until
the process ends in August, Botero said.  “We’d have a crop in good conditions for the next first
half of the year,” he said.  Antioquia accounts for almost 16 percent of Colombian
coffee production, Botero said.  Each bag of coffee weighs 60 kilograms (132 pounds.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  