-- Colorado Springs Fire Most Destructive in State History
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m   a n d   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-06-29T18:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/colorado-springs-fire-consumes-hundreds-of-homes-threatens-city.html
Emotions ran high in Colorado
Springs as hundreds of people forced to flee their wooded
subdivisions learned whether their homes survived the most
destructive wildfire in state history.  “I looked at the list of homes tonight and our whole
neighborhood is leveled,” Rebekah Largent, 31, said last night.
“It’s unrecognizable.”  A search on foot through areas burned out by the Waldo
Canyon fire showed at least 346 residences destroyed in
Colorado’s second-largest city, Mayor Steve Bach said yesterday.
One person was found dead in a home where two had been reported
missing, Police Chief Pete Carey said today.  President  Barack Obama  arrived to tour the area today and
declared the state, where several fires are burning, a disaster
area, releasing funds to aid state and local governments, the
White House said in a statement. Air Force One took the
president for an aerial view northwest of the city as smoke
plumes rose from several fires.  Drought and winds have fueled fires across the western U.S.
Federal personnel are supplementing local and state forces
battling fires in Colorado,  Alaska ,  Arizona ,  California ,
 Montana ,  Nevada ,  New Mexico ,  Utah  and  Wyoming , according to the
 U.S. Forest Service .  Firefighting Army  As of late yesterday, 21 air tankers had been assigned to
fires, along with more than 8,800 workers, 550 fire engines and
170 helicopters, according to the Forest Service.  More than 1,000 federal, state and local firefighters,
approximately 70 fire engines and six helicopters are devoted to
the  Colorado Springs  fire, the Forest Service said.  That fire has consumed almost 29 square miles (75 square
kilometers), about the size of  Manhattan . Officials hope to
control the blaze, which was 15 percent contained today, by July
16, according to the Incident Information System, a multi-agency
coordinating group.  Colorado Springs firefighter Rick McNew, 42, said he could
hear cows lowing in the distance as he laid water hoses around
the 35 streets in the Mountain Shadows area after the fire
started June 23. When he returned four days later, the
neighborhood where he urged residents to leave was burned to the
ground.  Etched in Memory  “You’re out there fighting the fire and it’s a life-
changing event,” said McNew. “We’ll never forget it.”  More than 20,000 homes and 160 businesses remain threatened
from the Waldo Canyon fire, and the cost for battling the blaze
so far is $5.2 million, the Incident Information System website
said.  The wildfire forced more than 34,000 evacuees to seek
shelter. Some have been allowed to return home.  Last night, counselors were on hand at a  University of
Colorado - Colorado  Springs auditorium as residents were ushered
into side rooms where city workers told them whether their homes
survived.  Some knew their status before they arrived, the Largents
among them. Their house was gone.  “We had seen pictures,” Largent said.  “We lost a lot of possessions -- some are replaceable,
some are not,” said her husband, Byron, 27. They had lived in
the home since February, he said.  The fire reached their home June 26, the first birthday of
their daughter, Emma. They lost Rebekah’s wedding dress, her
grandmother’s china and “the rocking chair we rocked our baby
in for a year,” Byron said.  Flood of Food  Miles Prim learned that both his apartment and business
survived and that he could return to both. Prim is vice
president of operations for a specialty electronics manufacturer
with 58 employees in a western section of town.  “We have customers and families that need us to get back
to work,” Prim said.  The fire brought people together, with some residents
taking in evacuees and others eager to donate and help victims.  A food bank said it had so many offers from people who want
to help that it started a waiting list. It uses 130 volunteers a
day to staff its warehouse.  “We opened a special food drive on Sunday morning and
since then we’ve had a flood of volunteers and donations -- even
from evacuees,” said Lynne Telford, president and chief
executive officer of the Care & Share Food Bank. “We’ve been so
surprised and overwhelmed.”  Pulling Together  Governor John Hickenlooper, a Democrat, yesterday announced
the creation of a fund to benefit victims. The fund has received
$600,000 in donations from individuals, foundations and
businesses, according to a statement from his office.  “Coloradans are at their best when they work together to
help each other in difficult times,” Hickenlooper said.  Firefighters said they made progress yesterday, helped by
lower winds and short bursts of rain from thunderstorms.  “Yesterday we had great weather,” Jerri Marr, Pike & San
Isabel National Forest supervisor, said today. “Once again, it
looks like we’ll have the same weather today. We made great
strides.”  The fire burned 10 acres on the U.S. Air Force Academy’s
campus, near residences housing more than 2,000 members of
military families, and was no longer a threat, Lieutenant
Colonel  John Bryan , a spokesman for the school, said yesterday.
More than 1,000 cadets were to be sworn in at a ceremony today.  Families living east of Interstate 25, across from the
academy, banded together to take in evacuees.  Homemaker Janice Barnes, 42, and her husband, an Air Force
computer technician, brought in pizza and rotisserie chicken
dinners to feed their two teenagers and two other Air Force
families who took shelter with them after base housing was
evacuated June 26.  “I’d rather have people come with me rather than be in a
hotel or an airplane hangar,” said Barnes, adding that her
children offered to sleep on the floor to make room.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  