-- Comcast, Boxee Tell FCC of Agreement in Dispute Over Encryption
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-06-28T18:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/comcast-boxee-tell-fcc-of-agreement-in-dispute-over-encryption.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and Boxee Inc. said
they agreed on a method for showing encrypted cable channels on
the startup’s devices, which can be connected to a television to
show Internet video and TV programs.  The agreement, disclosed in a letter  filed  with the  U.S.
Federal Communications Commission , may resolve concerns by New
York-based Boxee that expanded encryption of programming may
leave its boxes unable to access basic-cable TV channels.  Cable providers such as Comcast, which is the largest,  say 
they want to securely transmit basic services in order to reduce
piracy and disconnect cable remotely, cutting costs by reducing
the need to send technicians. Under the agreement, if approved
by the FCC, cable companies would provide hardware or modify
existing analog-to-cable converters to let them interface with
third-party set-top boxes, Boxee Chief Executive Officer Avner Ronen said in an interview.  Soon after, cable companies would offer a way to decrypt
basic-cable signals using software, Ronen said. They haven’t yet
determined an exact timeline for the changes, he said.  “Sitting down at a table is much more productive than
exchanging views in filings with the FCC,” Ronen said. “The
proposed solution addresses both the concerns of the cable
companies and the concerns that we had.”  In October, the FCC proposed letting operators encrypt
basic cable services, saying most people have equipment to view
the signals. In February, Boxee met with the FCC to oppose the
rule. Boxee said encryption could throttle the market for its
devices, part of an increasingly popular group of products that
make it easier for people to find streaming content such as
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  movies in the same place as live TV.  The agreement between the companies could provide “a
strong foundation” for an FCC order allowing encryption of the
basic service tier, Philadelphia-based Comcast said in the
letter. The document described a June 26 meeting with Comcast
and Boxee executives and FCC officials to discuss the agreement.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, didn’t immediately provide a
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Milian in  New York  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  