-- Commercial Paper Expands for First Time in 4 Weeks, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-06-28T15:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/commercial-paper-expands-for-first-time-in-4-weeks-fed-says-1-.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through U.S.  commercial paper  expanded for the first time in
four weeks as investors bought the short-term IOUs of financial
institutions even as  Europe ’s leaders struggle to stop the
region’s debt crisis from spreading globally.  The seasonally adjusted amount of commercial paper rose
$10.1 billion to $1.008 trillion outstanding in the week ended
yesterday, the  Federal Reserve  said today on its website. It’s
the first increase since the period ended May 30 and the highest
level since the market reached $1.014 trillion for the week
ended June 6, according to Fed data compiled by Bloomberg.  Money-market funds, among the biggest investors in the
market, are capping their holdings of European financial
commercial paper. While investors are concerned that the
region’s fiscal crisis may infect bank balance sheets globally,
issuance of U.S. financial institutions’ short-term obligations
rose to the highest level in four weeks, even after Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded 15 global lenders on June 21.  As the end of June approaches, “financial companies are
trading to get their reserve positions in line for quarter-end
reporting,”  Howard Simons , strategist at Bianco Research LLC in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  Bank Downgrades  “Even though the banks have been downgraded, you can trust
them for the next one to two weeks in the short-term market
because they are not going to disappear,” Simons said.  Commercial paper  issued by U.S.-based financial
institutions jumped the most in seven months, surging $23.7
billion to $297.3 billion outstanding, the highest level since
May 30 and the biggest increase since the period ended Nov. 16
when it climbed by $28.6 billion.  The amount sold by non-U.S. financial institutions 
increased after three weeks of declines, rising $1.2 billion to
$193.4 billion outstanding, according to the Fed.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Parry  in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net 
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  