-- Company Campaign Funds Ban Survives Citizens United Test
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-28T18:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/company-campaign-funds-ban-survives-citizens-united-test.html
The U.S. Supreme Court decision
giving corporations the same rights as people to spend money
independently to support political campaigns didn’t overturn a
century-old ban on direct corporate donations to candidates, a
federal court ruled.  A three-judge appeals panel in Richmond,  Virginia , made its
ruling today in reinstating a criminal campaign-finance charge
against two fundraisers for  Hillary Clinton ’s presidential bid
who were indicted for improperly reimbursing $186,600 to donors.  U.S. District Judge James Cacheris had thrown out a charge
that the two illegally funneled corporate money to the campaign,
ruling that the high court’s 2010  Citizens United  decision meant
companies can make campaign donations directly to candidates as
long as they comply with general legal limits. The appeals court
judges disagreed.  “Leaping to this conclusion ignores the well-established
principle that independent expenditures and direct contributions
are subject to different standards of scrutiny and supported by
different government interests,” U.S. Circuit Judge Roger Gregory wrote for the panel.  ‘Explicitly Declined’  Citizens United “explicitly declined” to address the
constitutionality of the ban on direct contributions or
“indicate that its ‘corporations-are-equal-to-people’ logic”
applies in the context of direct contributions, Gregory said.  The indictment, which covers Clinton’s 2008 presidential
bid and 2006 Senate run, also charged the two men -- William P. Danielczyk Jr., chairman of McLean, Virginia-based Galen Capital
Group LLC, and Eugene R. Biagi, Galen’s secretary and treasurer
-- with conspiracy, obstruction of justice and causing false
statements.  Their trial had been put on hold while the appeal was
pending.  Jeff Lamken, a lawyer for Danielczyk, and Mark Matney, a
lawyer for Biagi, didn’t immediately respond to e-mail messages
seeking comment on the ruling.  Peter Carr , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride ,
had no immediate comment.  Bans on direct corporate donations to candidates go back to
the Tillman Act of 1905. The 2002 campaign-finance law
prohibited contributions known as “soft money” from corporate
and union treasuries to the political parties.  The case is U.S. v. Danielczyk, 11-4667,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the  Fourth Circuit  (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  