-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Climbs to Highest Level in Two Months
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-06-28T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-climbs-to-highest-level-in-two-months.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
climbed last week to the highest level in two months as optimism
over personal finances helped alleviate growing apprehension
about the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 36.1 in
the week ended June 24 from minus 37.9 in the previous period.
The gauge of household finances was positive for the first time
since April, while sentiment toward the state of the economy
dropped to the lowest level since February.  A 57-cent decrease in gasoline prices since early April is
providing some relief, helping offset concern the job market is
weakening by allowing employed Americans to stretch their
paychecks. At the same time, sentiment among higher-income
households turned negative for the first time in three months as
 Europe ’s debt crisis hurts stock prices.  “The decline in confidence among households earning more
than $100,000 per year likely reflects concerns about portfolio
exposure to the crisis in Europe and the global economic
slowdown,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at
Bloomberg LP in New York. Since the top 40 percent of income
earners accounts for about 60 percent of consumer purchases,
“even a modest pullback can have outsized effects on household
spending and overall growth,” he said.  Another report today showed the number of applications for
 unemployment benefits  hovered last week near the highest level
of the year, showing little improvement in the labor market.
 Jobless claims  fell by 6,000 to 386,000 in the week ended June
23, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.  Stocks Fall  Stocks fell as JPMorgan Chase & Co. tumbled on a report
that the lender’s trading losses may total as much as $9
billion. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.8 percent to
1,321.6 at 9:40 a.m. in  New York .  The Bloomberg sentiment gauge, which has increased in five
of the past six weeks, may signal a turnaround for other
confidence readings. The Conference Board’s  sentiment  index fell
in June to a five-month low, the New York-based group said this
week. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s measure
dropped this month to the lowest level this year.  The Bloomberg index of  personal finances  climbed to 4.4,
the highest since the period ended April 15, from minus 2.3 in
the prior week. The gauge of whether consumers consider it a
good time to buy was minus 40.9, also the highest since mid-
April, after minus 41.7 in the prior period.  The index of the state of the national  economy  decreased to
minus 71.9 from minus 69.8. Some 86 percent said the economy was
in “bad shape.”  Gasoline Prices  Lower prices at the gas pump may have underpinned sentiment
last week. The average cost of a gallon of regular unleaded was
$3.37 yesterday, down from a high of $3.94 on April 5, according
to AAA, the nation’s largest auto group.  Cheaper fill-ups may have been reflected in a jump in
sentiment among some lower wage earners. Confidence of those
with incomes from $15,000 to $24,900 jumped to minus 65.5 from
minus 79.3.  At the same time, further gains may be tougher to come by
without a pickup in the labor market. Companies added the fewest
number of jobs in a year in May and the  unemployment rate  rose
to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent. It’s held above 8 percent for
40 consecutive months, the longest stretch of such elevated
levels in the post-World War II era.  Among those Americans earning more than $100,000 a year,
sentiment dropped to the weakest level since March 18. The
decrease may raise the odds that retailers will continue to see
demand cool after sales dropped over the past two months.  Coach Inc. (COH)   Shares of Coach Inc., the largest U.S. luxury handbag
maker, slumped 25 percent since the end of March through
yesterday on investor concern that department-store sales are
slowing.  “Obviously, the macro environment is uncertain and one of
the things that we work hard to do is to navigate nimbly through
that environment,” Chief Executive Officer Lew Frankfort told
investors June 5 at a consumer conference.  Today’s figures also showed that the disparity in consumer
confidence between blacks and white widened this week to the
largest gap since mid-1990. The measure of sentiment among
blacks jumped to minus 18.8 last week from minus 34.2. For
whites, the gauge dropped to minus 39.1. It was the sixth time
the index has been higher among blacks than whites by double-
digits.  Political Aspect  “With the first African-American president seeking re-
election, there’s likely a political aspect to consumer
sentiment among blacks, as well as among partisan political
groups,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates
in New York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a
statement.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in  Washington  at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  