-- Cooperman Says Earning 13% in Stocks Takes ‘Average IQ’
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2012-06-28T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/cooperman-says-earning-13-in-stocks-takes-average-iq-.html
On a dreary Monday morning in May,
rain pelts the windows of Omega Advisors Inc.’s 31st-floor
conference room in New York. Inside,  Leon Cooperman  and his 14
analysts are trying to come up with ways to make money amid
squalling markets. In a single dismal month, half of the hedge
fund’s gains for the year have evaporated.  “The market is very sick,” Cooperman says. That’s not
necessarily bad news for Cooperman, 69, a blustery billionaire
from the South Bronx who first made his name as a stock picker
during 25 years as an analyst at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  “We
have to take advantage,” he says. “What’s ridiculously priced
now?”  Omega, which currently invests its $6 billion in assets
mainly in U.S. stocks, has returned an average of 13.3 percent
annually since Cooperman founded it in 1991, compared with 11.4
percent for other equity-oriented funds, according to Chicago-
based Hedge Fund Research Inc., Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its August issue.  For more than 40 years, Cooperman has earned a reputation
for consistently ferreting out the most-discounted stocks -- no
matter what the overall market conditions.  “He’s not doing anything terribly fancy; he’s looking for
stocks that are undervalued,” says Robert S. Salomon Jr., 75, an
Omega client whose grandfather co-founded Salomon Brothers.
“He’s had some great success in finding them.” Adds John Whitehead, 90, who was co-chairman of Goldman during Cooperman’s
time there, “He’s been around a long time and seen bad markets
and good markets, and he’s survived them all successfully.”  Euro Fears  Markets on this particular day in May are being buffeted by
fears about the future of the euro region, the possibility of
U.S. tax cuts expiring at the end of 2012 and slowing growth in
China. After the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 6 percent
in May, some money managers bet that the market would fall
further.  John Burbank , who runs the $3.4 billion Passport
Capital LLC hedge fund, told Bloomberg News that he’s shorting
stocks because he expects the U.S. and much of the rest of the
world to fall back into a recession.  Cooperman is more sanguine about the future. As of June 11,
his fund was up 6 percent this year--compared with 1.03 percent
for hedge funds globally. He says stocks offer the best
opportunities for investors, particularly in the U.S., where
there are no signs of a recession. Banks are more profitable,
household debt has declined and companies are increasing capital
spending.  Stocks Undervalued  Yet stocks have remained undervalued, he says, because of
economic troubles and uncertainty over the U.S. presidential
election. The  S&P 500 (SPX)  is trading at a price-earnings ratio of
12.5 compared with an average of 15 during the past 50 years.  “Stocks are the best house in the financial asset
neighborhood,” Cooperman says, before adding a caveat: “It’s not
clear whether it’s a good neighborhood or a bad neighborhood.”  Filling a large room in Cooperman’s investing house today
is student loan provider  SLM Corp. (SLM) , better known as  Sallie Mae .
With total educational debt in the U.S. ballooning to $904
billion as of March 31 from $241 billion a decade earlier,
according to the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , some
commentators have talked about a looming student-debt crisis.  Cooperman sees an opportunity. Sallie Mae throws off lots
of cash, he says. Some 80 percent of its loans outstanding
consist of government-backed debt issued before 2010, when
Congress mandated that the government make certain college loans
directly rather than subcontracting them to Sallie Mae. Since
then, Sallie Mae has been expanding its private lending
business, charging free-market rates that can run as high as
12.88 percent.  ‘Kids Have to Borrow’  Cooperman started buying Sallie Mae in December 2007, after
a $25 billion buyout deal with J.C. Flowers & Co.,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp.  collapsed amid the credit
crisis, sending its shares plummeting. On April 21, 2011, the
company announced that it would reinstate its dividend, sending
the shares up 13 percent to $16.13. Cooperman paid an average of
$7.36. SLM closed at $15.20 on Wednesday, and Omega predicts
that it will rise as high as $22. Omega is the eighth-largest
owner of the company, with a 3.51 percent stake.  “Ultimately, it’ll work,” Cooperman says of SLM. “Lots of
kids have to borrow money; their parents have to cosign the
loans. It’s a profitable business.”  JPMorgan Loss  Not all of his bets work out. Omega had considered JPMorgan
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  the best in the industry,
and the bank’s management had been aggressively repurchasing
stock. Omega started buying shares of the New York bank in 2009
at an average cost of $37.14.  JPMorgan disclosed on May 10 that it had a $2 billion
trading loss because of riskier-than-expected credit securities.
Omega sold about two-thirds of its position the next day, taking
a loss: The shares tumbled 9 percent on May 11, closing at
$36.96. They traded at $36.78 yesterday.  At Omega’s staff meeting in May, one of the portfolio
managers suggests that JPMorgan shares may now be ridiculously
cheap. Cooperman launches into a tirade about how Dimon has been
unfairly pilloried by Representative Barney Frank and other
critics. “I’m incensed by some of the sh-- you’re reading,”
Cooperman tells his managers. He says he’ll hold on to his
remaining shares as a vote of confidence in Dimon.
Cooperman, a self-described workaholic, says there’s no magic
formula to finding good stocks.  Sailing and Research  “With an average IQ and a strong work ethic, you can go
far,” he says, adding that he sees himself as proof of that. “I
don’t have a lot of outside interests. I don’t do well with
leisure. I like a structured life.” Cooperman expects stocks to
return 7 to 8 percent in the future, below their historic 10
percent returns.  Barry Rosenstein , co-founder of the $3 billion Jana
Partners LLC hedge fund in New York, admires Cooperman’s work
ethic. Rosenstein was a teenager when he first met the fund
manager at a sailing club on the Jersey Shore of which both were
members. Cooperman would show up with a stack of annual reports,
disappear onto his boat and read them all weekend, Rosenstein,
53, recalls.  “If  Bruce Springsteen  is the hardest-working man in rock
’n’ roll, Lee is the hardest-working man in the investment
business,” he says. Cooperman was one of the first to invest in
Jana when Rosenstein founded it in 2001.  Share Buybacks  As he scours reports and quizzes executives on earnings
calls and at conferences, Cooperman is trying to discover stocks
that have a low price-earnings ratio, lots of cash and decent
yields and that are trading for less than their net assets are
worth. He also looks for what he calls smart managers who own
big stakes in their companies and for firms that buy back their
own shares cheaply.  While he was at Goldman, one such hit was what’s now called
 Teledyne Technologies Inc. (TDY) , whose founder, Henry Singleton, made
acquisitions using the company’s stock when its price was high.
When the share price went down, Singleton bought back shares
repeatedly. Under Singleton, Teledyne expanded its defense,
aerospace and industrial businesses. Cooperman recommended the
stock in 1968, and for the following two decades, it generated a
23 percent annual return. Cooperman displays a framed 1982
letter in his office from  Warren Buffett  congratulating him on
his analysis of Teledyne.  Betting on Apple  One of Cooperman’s largest holdings today is  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
which Omega portfolio manager Barry Stewart says he likes
because of its $110 billion cash hoard. Apple’s prospects for
growth are strong, he says, with the market booming for its
iPhone smartphones, MacBook computers and iPad tablets.  Cooperman pounced on the stock at an average of $376 a
share starting in July 2010, around the time  Consumer Reports 
said a faulty iPhone 4 antenna could cause the phone to lose its
signal. The problem proved to be a hiccup, and Apple shares have
since risen to $574.60. Stewart projects that the stock will go
as high as $710 in the next year.  Stewart is also betting that growing demand for 3G and 4G
mobile phones made by Apple and others such as Samsung
Electronics Co. will boost the fortunes of  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the
largest producer of semiconductor chips for the devices. Omega
began buying Qualcomm last August at an average price of $53.
The shares traded at $54.91 on Wednesday, and Stewart says they
could rise as high as $85 in the next 12 months.  Smart Management  One of Cooperman’s worst-performing holdings this year is
 McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR) , an oil-and-gas drilling company whose
price plunged about 40 percent from a high of $14.55 on Dec. 30
after an equipment malfunction caused delays at one of its wells
in the Gulf of Mexico. Cooperman is still enthusiastic about its
prospects because it meets his requirement of smart management.  James “Jim Bob” Moffett, the New Orleans-based company’s
CEO, is also chairman of  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ,
the world’s largest publicly traded copper producer, and has a
track record of making deals in far-flung places. McMoRan formed
a joint venture with  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  to drill for oil in
Louisiana. Omega paid $10 on average for the shares, which
traded at $12.30 on Wednesday. If the company strikes oil, Omega
predicts that the stock could reach $25 to $30 within 18 months.  When a company considers its own stock a bargain, Cooperman
wants in too. That was the case with  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , the New York-based insurer majority owned by the
U.S. government after its 2008 bailout. CEO Robert Benmosche has
bought back shares from the U.S. Treasury and repaid funds tied
to AIG’s government bailout.  Lane Bryant  The company bought $3 billion of its stock in March, and
$15 billion of planned asset sales should fuel more buybacks,
Omega portfolio manager Mahmood Reza says. Omega bought the
shares this year for an average of $30.47 and anticipates that
the price could rise to $53 by the end of 2013. They traded at
$30.82 on Wednesday.  Cooperman also hunts for takeover candidates. Omega zeroed
in on Charming Shoppes Inc., the owner of plus-size-clothing
retailer Lane Bryant, after visiting the company’s executives.
The company’s cash exceeded debt and had the potential for
higher profitability as part of a bigger group.  He started buying the shares at less than $3 each last year
and added to his position after David Jaffe, CEO of  Ascena
Retail Group Inc. (ASNA) , formerly known as Dress Barn Inc., told a
conference that he was interested in buying companies. Omega
amassed a 13 percent stake in Charming Shoppes. In May of this
year, Ascena agreed to buy the company for $7.35 a share.  Azerbaijan Deal  In 1998, Cooperman bet big on emerging markets -- and lost.
The misstep was compounded by Omega’s investment of more than
$100 million with Czech financier  Viktor Kozeny  in a plan to
take over Azerbaijan’s state oil company. New York state
prosecutors accuse Kozeny, who now lives in the Bahamas, of
stealing Cooperman’s investment, while U.S. prosecutors say
Kozeny led a multibillion-dollar bribery scheme in connection
with the Azeri deal.  In 2007, Omega paid $500,000 to the U.S. to resolve the -
bribery investigation. Omega didn’t admit wrongdoing while it
accepted legal responsibility for the actions of an employee who
admitted joining Kozeny’s bribery scheme. Kozeny denies
wrongdoing.  In all, Omega lost a total of $500 million, or 13 percent
of its total assets in 1998, after which Cooperman fired almost
the entire emerging-markets team. (He later recovered some of
the money.) He says the episode was the worst chapter of his
life.  Goldman Career  The younger of two sons of Polish immigrants, Cooperman
bagged fruit and changed tires to make money as a teenager in
the Bronx. He learned how to analyze securities from the late
Roger Murray, a professor at Columbia Business School. Another
professor’s recommendation earned Cooperman a job as a research
analyst at Goldman.  Cooperman’s office is filled with mementos of his years at
Goldman, for which he still manages an undisclosed amount of
money. A framed copy of the company’s business principles is
displayed in Cooperman’s office, near a curled-up whip -- a gift
from Goldman salesmen after he completed a 30-city, 20-day
roadshow to market a stock fund in 1990. After years in
research, Cooperman founded Goldman Sachs Asset Management in
1989.  Despite being a billionaire, Cooperman, who has three
grandchildren, says he has no plans to retire soon. “He’s the
first one in the office, the last one out,” says Tomas Arlia,
head of hedge funds at GE Asset Management Inc., which has had
money with Omega since its inception. “He loves what he does.”  A piece of paper taped to his computer monitor reminds
Cooperman of the simple investing rules that have helped Omega
weather market storms for the past two decades: “Buy low, sell
high, cut your losses, let your profits run.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  