-- Copersucar Sees Potential El Nino Reducing Global Sugar Surplus
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-28T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/copersucar-sees-potential-el-nino-reducing-global-sugar-surplus.html
The possibility of an El Nino, a
warming of the  Pacific Ocean  that causes rains in sugar growing
areas in Brazil and dry weather in  India , may erode a global
sugar surplus, according to Copersucar SA, a producer in Brazil.  El Nino conditions may emerge by the end of the winter in
the Southern Hemisphere, with the waters of the tropical Pacific
continuing to warm,  Australia ’s Bureau of Meteorology said on
its  website  on June 19. Global sugar supplies will outpace
demand by 9.3 million metric tons in the 12 months that start in
October, according to Kingsman SA, a Lausanne, Switzerland-based
broker and researcher. That follows a surplus of 10.2 million
tons in the current 2011-12 season, it estimates.  “If the forecasts for El Nino are confirmed, we will have
a rainy year here and that may have some impact in the
availability of Brazilian product,” Luis Roberto Pogetti,
chairman of Copersucar, said by phone from  Sao Paulo  on June 22.
“El Nino also brings drought to India and the two impacts will
help reduce the surplus the world is expecting.”  Brazil is the world’s largest sugar producer followed by
India, while Thailand is the second-biggest exporter. Rain
associated with the last El Nino in 2009-10 reduced the cane’s
sugar content in Brazil by 7.5 percent, according to industry
group Unica. In India, monsoon rains were 22 percent below
average in 2009-10, according to Brisbane, Australia-based Green
Pool Commodity Specialists Pty.  India Demand  Prices more than doubled in 2009 as demand in India
outpaced production and prompted the government to halt exports.
Global shortages reached 5.7 million tons in 2009-10, according
to Paris-based traders Sucres et Denrees SA. The return of El
Nino would be “constructive” to prices, which have fallen 10
percent this year through yesterday, Pogetti said before a 
Datagro conference in  London  today.  Rainfall delaying the crop in Brazil’s center south, the
country’s main growing region, is trimming yields and reducing
the time for cane processing, according to Copersucar. A lack of
crushing time may result in millers favoring output of raw sugar
and hydrous ethanol, commodities that take less time to make,
Pogetti said. Hydrous ethanol is used in flex-fuel cars.  “We’ve lost about 11 days of production because of the
rains so far and in a traditional period of 200 days of crushing
this is very significant for the beginning of the harvest,” he
said. “The cane is a bit poorer because of the rains. In March,
we were working with sugar content of 140 kilograms (309 pounds)
a ton and now we are at 137 kilograms a ton.”  Center South  Sugar production in the center south will fall to 31
million tons in the 2012-13 season that started in May in
 Brazil , down from a March forecast of 32 million tons and last
year’s output of 31.3 million tons, the company estimates. Sugar
cane output will rise to 505 million tons from 493 million tons
a year earlier, it said. Ethanol production will be 21.4 billion
liters (5.6 billion gallons), up from 20.5 billion liters in
2011-12, it said.  “The most probable scenario at the moment is that this
harvest will be very similar to last year’s,” Pogetti said.
“We planted more cane but won’t have more product.”  Production of white, or refined, sugar in Brazil will be
smaller because of the rains, he said. That should mean a higher
 premium  for white sugar over raws, he said. The white sugar
premium jumped 66 percent this year to $147.03 a ton by yesterday.  Growers in Brazil are renovating cane fields and in two to
three years that may result in the cost of production falling
back to 18 cents a pound from the current 20 cents a pound,
Copersucar estimates. Costs have been rising in Brazil because
of higher labor costs and a strengthening of the real currency.  Global sugar demand for exports will rise by 12 million
tons by 2020 as sugar consumption is set to grow by an
average 2 percent a year, Pogetti said. The global export market
is growing fast enough to absorb production expansion from
Brazil and  Thailand , he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  