-- Court Ruling Lets $813 Billion in Higher Taxes Proceed
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-28T19:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/court-ruling-lets-400-billion-in-higher-taxes-proceed.html
Wealthy investors, health insurance
companies and medical device makers will face hundreds of
billions of dollars in new taxes stemming from the health-care
law that the U.S. Supreme Court upheld today.  Some of the largest levies and fees in the 2010 law take
effect in 2013. In all, the law is projected to raise an
estimated $813 billion in revenue over 10 years to help pay for
the expansion of  insurance  coverage, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office . That figure includes penalties
under the individual mandate, which the court ruled is
constitutional under Congress’ taxing power.  The court’s decision will prompt high-income taxpayers to
begin more intense planning to minimize the effect of higher
taxes on capital gains and dividends that begin next year.  “In this whole uncertain environment, it’s one piece of
the puzzle where we’ll start to get some clarity” around taxes
for individuals and companies, said Edward Karl, vice president
of taxation for the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants in  Washington . “We can start to remove some of the
clouds that are following us around this year.”  Unearned Income  The health-care law also included hundreds of billions of
dollars in tax cuts. Small businesses are eligible for tax
credits toward insurance premiums and the subsidies to middle-
income families that begin in 2014 are structured as tax
credits, which are paid directly to insurance companies.  The most significant taxes for individuals in the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act are scheduled to take effect
at the beginning of 2013. Married couples earning more than
$250,000 a year and individuals earning at least $200,000 face a
3.8 percent tax on their “unearned income,” including  capital
gains , dividends and private-equity managers’ profits on
leveraged buyouts.  Those high earners would be subject to an additional 0.9
percent levy on their wages exceeding those income thresholds
starting next year.  An estimated 4.1 million households, or 2.4 percent of
Americans, would pay one or both taxes, according to the  Tax
Policy Center , a nonpartisan research group in Washington.  The two taxes on high earners would raise $317.7 billion
over the next 10 years, according to a new estimate from the
congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. The House Ways and
Means Committee released  the estimate  today, which says the
taxes -- excluding the mandate penalties and several other
provisions -- will raise $675.3 billion.  ‘Big Deal’  “The 3.8 percent Medicare tax is a big deal” for wealthy
investors because of the variety of unearned income it covers,
said Elizabeth Kessenides, a tax attorney in  New York  who
represents people in financial services including private-equity
and hedge-fund managers. “For private-equity fund managers, it
was a significant item due to its potential application to the
carried interest.”  The share of profits private-equity managers receive from
investments is known as carried interest. It is often taxed as
capital gains, which carry a lower rate than ordinary income and
would fall under the new Medicare levy, Kessenides said.  “It could have some people triggering capital gains that
they were thinking about doing next year,” said Tim Steffen,
director of financial planning at Robert W. Baird & Co. based in
 Milwaukee . “That’s the most obvious repercussion.”  High-income taxpayers considering large transactions with
capital gains such as selling a business or a second home have
more reason to close deals this year with the 3.8 percent tax
set for 2013, said Elda Di Re, partner and area leader of the
personal-financial services tax division at Ernst & Young in New
York.  Stock Options  High earners may accelerate income from  stock options  or
bonuses into this year to avoid the additional 0.9 percent tax
on their wages exceeding the thresholds scheduled for 2013,
Steffen said.  Sue Stevens, chief executive officer of Stevens Wealth
Management based in Deerfield,  Illinois , said she may seek ways
to keep clients below the $200,000 or $250,000 thresholds by
staggering the taxable income they receive over several years if
possible.  Wealthy investors also may buy municipal bonds because
income from them is exempt from the 3.8 percent levy on unearned
income, said Tim Speiss, chairman of the personal wealth
advisers practice at EisnerAmper LLP, an accounting and advisory
firm in New York.  Greater Consequences  The effect of the levies in the health-care law will have
greater consequences for wealthy taxpayers if tax cuts first
enacted during the presidency of  George W. Bush  expire as
scheduled at the end of 2012. Unless Congress acts, the top rate
on long-term capital gains and dividends, now 15 percent, would
increase to 20 percent and 39.6 percent, respectively. For high
earners who exceed the threshold, the health-care tax would
bring the levy on dividends to as much as 43.4 percent.  Investors shouldn’t overreact to the Supreme Court decision
as they have several months to make investment decisions and
consider market performance, Steffen said. The results of the
presidential election in November also may change  tax policy , he
said.  Repeal Vote  Republicans in Congress already have voted to overturn the
law and plan another House vote on repeal on July 11, according
to the chamber’s majority leader, Virginia Republican  Eric Cantor . Democrats control the Senate, and President  Barack Obama 
would have the ability to veto such a bill.  “Today’s decision does nothing to diminish the fact that
Obamacare’s mandates, tax hikes, and Medicare cuts should be
repealed and replaced with common sense reforms that lower costs
and that the American people actually want,” Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said in a
statement.  The health-care taxes in the law also included industry
fees for pharmaceutical makers and health insurers, plus a 2.3
percent excise tax on medical devices that aren’t sold directly
to consumers, such as hip implants and cardiac stents.  The  House of Representatives  voted 270-146 on June 7 to
repeal the medical device tax, which is scheduled to take effect
in 2013. Combined, those three industry fees and taxes are
expected to generate $165 billion, according to the new
estimate.  ‘New Urgency’  “Today’s decision adds new urgency to repealing the
medical- device tax so that patients and providers can continue
to expect innovative devices and technologies,” Mark Leahey,
president and chief executive officer of the Medical Device
Manufacturers Association, said in a statement.  For individuals, the law also places caps on the amount of
pretax money that can be diverted to flexible-spending
arrangements offered by employers to pay some health-care costs.
It  required  people to obtain prescriptions to use pre-tax
dollars in FSAs and so-called health  savings accounts  for over-
the-counter medication. It also made it more difficult for
people to take itemized deductions for their medical expenses.  One of the most controversial elements of the law among
Democrats was a 40 percent excise tax on what some lawmakers
called “Cadillac,” or high-cost, health-care plans. While that
tax isn’t scheduled to take effect until 2018, many employers
with generous benefits have made adjustments to avoid the levy.  According to the new estimate, that tax will raise $111
billion over the next 10 years.  Possible Adjustments  Such adjustments by companies include offering high-
deductible insurance with savings accounts, adopting wellness
incentives for employees and increasing the amount that workers
pay for medical expenses, said Steven Wojcik, vice president of
public policy for the Washington-based National Business Group
on Health, which represents mostly large employers.  The Supreme Court decision has “cleared up some of the
cloud of uncertainty hanging over the law and employers should
go forward preparing for the upcoming provisions that are going
to affect employer plans,” Wojcik said.  Annual premiums for employer-sponsored family health
coverage increased to $15,073 in 2011, up 9 percent from the
prior year, according to a  report  by the  Kaiser Family
Foundation  based in  Menlo Park ,  California . Workers pay on
average $4,129 and employers pay $10,944, the study said.  The health-care law also included a 10 percent excise tax
on indoor tanning, stopped paper companies from receiving
certain tax breaks for making a byproduct called “black
liquor” and codified a judicial doctrine against tax shelters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  