-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Climb on German, U.S. Unemployment Concern
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-06-28T21:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/credit-swaps-in-u-s-climb-on-german-u-s-unemployment-concern.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
rose as U.S. jobless claims held at almost the highest level
this year and as German unemployment put pressure on European
Union leaders meeting today to curb the currency bloc’s
financial crisis.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.6 basis point to a mid-price of 118.3 basis points at 5:04
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts tied to Cigna Corp. and UnitedHealth Group Inc.
climbed after the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the core of
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul.  The number of applications for  unemployment benefits  in the
U.S. lingered at about the most of 2012, while German
unemployment rose for the fourth month this year. Investors are
concerned that mounting economic strains in  Europe  may detract
from U.S. corporate creditworthiness.  “The employment numbers today were small potatoes compared
to what the outcome of the summit will be,” Brian Reynolds,
chief market strategist for Rosenblatt Securities Inc. in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “Everyone is waiting to
see what is happening with the EU.”  U.S. jobless claims fell by 6,000 in the week ended June 23
to 386,000, down from a revised 392,000 for the prior week that
was the highest figure for 2012, Labor Department data showed
today in  Washington . In  Germany , 2.88 million people were
without jobs, an increase of 7,000 on a seasonally adjusted
basis for the fourth monthly increase this year, the Nuremberg-
based Federal Labor Agency said today.  European Summit  European Union leaders began a two-day summit today in
Brussels, their 19th such meeting since the debt crisis began
more than two years ago. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
yesterday that the joint debt sales advocated by French
President  Francois Hollande , Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
and Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  as a means to lower
borrowing costs are the “wrong way” to achieve the greater
European integration needed to stem the turmoil.  “It looks like there’s not going to be any more of a
breakthrough than some general agreement on a banking
framework,” Reynolds said. “The market is looking for more
than that and so it will likely be disappointed.”  Spain Yields  Spain ’s 10-year bond  yield  breached 7 percent for the first
time since June 20 before paring its rise, while the yield on
Italy’s 10-year notes slipped 1 basis point to 6.2 percent as
the nation sold 5.42 billion euros ($6.7 billion) of five- and
10-year notes today, just short of a 5.5 billion-euro target.  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of Cigna and
UnitedHealth climbed after Supreme Court justices voted 5-4 to
approve a health-care plan that would require Americans to carry
insurance or pay a penalty. Contracts tied to UnitedHealth, the
biggest U.S. health insurer by sales, increased 4.5 basis points
to a mid-price of 111.3 basis points, according to data provider
CMA. Credit swaps on Cigna rose 7.5 to 100.  Credit swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  