-- Czech Central Bank Cuts Rate to Record Low on Austerity
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-06-28T14:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/czech-central-bank-cuts-rates-to-record-low-on-recession-1-.html
The Czech central bank cut its main
 interest rate  to a record low, the first change in two years,
after faltering domestic demand sparked an economic recession
and the government’s borrowing costs sank to the lowest ever.  The Prague-based Ceska Narodni Banka lowered the two-week
repurchase  rate  by a quarter-point to 0.5 percent today, in line
with forecasts of 20 out of 24 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
The reduction deepened the discount to the  European Central
Bank ’s  benchmark  rate to half a percentage point. The move was
influenced by government plans for more measures to cut the
 budget deficit , Governor Miroslav Singer told reporters.  “That would mean a further relative curbing of demand,
which allowed us to ease the conditions,” Singer said.  As the ECB lifted and then lowered its refinancing rate by
a half point to 1 percent last year, the Czechs had held steady
since May 2010 because  consumer spending  wasn’t fueling
 inflation . Investors’ bets on lower interest rates pushed
government bond yields to record lows and weakened the koruna,
which headed for the biggest quarterly decline since the last
three months of 2009.  Lower Yields  Falling interest rates helped push the yield on two-year
 government bonds  to 0.9 percent, the lowest since at least 1997.
The koruna traded at 25.744 per euro at 4:12 p.m. in  Prague , 0.4
percent stronger from yesterday’s close.  Czech rate setters are assessing the impact of the
government’s tax increases on shop prices and the effects of the
euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis on the economy. At the
previous meeting on May 3, the bank’s board split three ways
over monetary-policy settings, with Governor Miroslav Singer and
Vice-Governor Vladimir Tomsik voting for a rate cut, while four
members wanted no change. One sought an increase.  The bank also lowered its Lombard rate by a quarter-point
to 1.5 percent, while leaving the discount rate unchanged at
0.25 percent. Four policy makers voted for the cut today, while
three wanted to keep borrowing costs unchanged. The bank will
publish minutes from the meeting with the votes of individual
board members on July 9.  Differing Assessments  Czech central bankers differ in their assessment of
inflation trends from policy makers in  Poland , the EU’s largest
post-communist economy. The Narodowy Bank Polski was the only
bloc member to increase  borrowing costs  this year as inflation
exceeded the upper end of the target range since January 2011.
Singer is discounting a spike in Czech inflation above the
bank’s target in 2012, spurred by a tax increase and fuel costs.  The inflation rate dropped to 3.2 percent in May, the
lowest this year, from 3.5 percent in April. The reading was 0.2
percentage point lower than the central bank forecast. Inflation
relevant for monetary policy, defined as price growth adjusted
for the primary impact of changes in indirect taxes, eased to 2
percent in May, matching the bank’s target.  Gross domestic product shrank 0.8 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, after declining 0.2
percent in the final quarter of 2011.  Consumer confidence  fell
to the lowest in almost 13 years in May, while retail sales
declined 4.1 percent in April, the largest drop in two years and
compared with a 5.5 percent increase in Poland.  Koruna Weakness  “Although the current weakness of the koruna speaks
against lower rates, the Czech economic recession, amplified by
the government’s savings measures, is a strong argument for
lower interest rates,”  Michal Brozka , chief analyst at
Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague, said in a note after the decision.  Economic risks are moving toward the bank’s alternative
economic scenario, which assumes lower monetary-policy inflation
and interest rates next year, Singer said today.  It isn’t certain that the bank will further cut rates as
signaled in the alternative outlook as koruna trends and
developments in the euro area may influence the Czech economy,
he said. The koruna has weakened 3 percent to the euro since May
2, one day before the previous policy meeting, the second
biggest loss after Russian ruble among 25 emerging-markets
currencies tracked by Bloomberg in that period.  No Guarantees  “I can hardly guarantee anything, the forecast is not an
obligation for the central bank,” Singer said. “Overall, at
this moment, I can only say I’m not that sure what it means for
the future, and I think we will know more in the summer.”  Headline inflation may exceed the bank’s forecast of 1.5
percent in the second quarter of next year if the government
pushes through another set of measures aimed at boosting budget
revenue, including an additional increase in the sales levy and
a new income-tax rate for higher earners, according to the
central bank’s alternative outlook. A boost in taxes may further
curtail consumer spending and limit demand-driven inflationary
pressures, the bank said.  “Amid soft inflation and weak economic dynamics, we expect
the policy rate to now be left unchanged through to end 2013,”
 Roderick Ngotho  and Abbas Ameli-Renani, economists at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, said in an e-mail. “While we do not
think the MPC will cut policy rates any further, we remain
mindful of the risks, especially given that there has been no
suggestion from MPC members that a 0.5% policy rate marks an
absolute floor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  