-- Beckham Not Picked for British Soccer Team at Olympics
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-06-28T14:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/david-beckham-not-selected-for-british-soccer-team-in-olympics.html
Former England soccer captain  David
Beckham  said he hasn’t been selected for the Great Britain team
at the London Olympics.  Beckham, 37, who worked on London’s successful pitch to
stage the games, had been hoping to be one of three players aged
more than 23 allowed in the 18-man squad.  “Everyone knows how much playing for my country has always
meant to me, so I would have been honored to have been part of
this unique Team GB squad,” Beckham said in an e-mailed
statement. “Naturally I am very disappointed, but there will be
no bigger supporter of the team than me, and like everyone I
will be hoping they can win the gold.”  Great Britain will field a men’s Olympic soccer team for
the first time in 52 years, and a women’s team for the first
time. England, Scotland,  Wales  and Northern Ireland normally
have their own teams in international tournaments. The games
start July 27.  Beckham, a former Manchester United and Real Madrid player,
is now at the Los Angeles Galaxy. He played 115 times for
England through 2010, more than any other player apart from
goalkeeper Peter Shilton.  Ryan Giggs ,  Craig Bellamy  and Micah Richards are set to be
the three “over-age” players to be named by team manager
 Stuart Pearce  next week, the Daily Telegraph reported.  Beckham said today that as a Londoner he was “really
proud” to have played a “small part” in bringing the games to
his home town.  “I can’t wait for the games to begin and will enjoy every
moment along with the rest of Great Britain,” he added in the
statement.  The Olympic soccer events will be held at six arenas
including United’s Old Trafford, London’s Wembley Stadium and
Hampden Park in Glasgow, Scotland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  