-- Demands for Bond-Buying Agreement Roil European Summit
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-06-29T00:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/demands-for-bond-buying-agreement-roil-european-crisis-summit.html
European Union leaders struggled to
meet demands by  Spain  and  Italy  for relief from rising borrowing
costs, threatening to derail a 120 billion-euro ($149 billion)
pledge to boost economic growth.  Leaders from the 17 euro nations stayed on to debate the
crisis-fighting plan early this morning after all 27 nations
informally signed off on the growth strategy. Italy is
withholding its final endorsement of the initiative as it pushes
for collective action at an EU summit in Brussels to push down
its bond yields, said two Italian officials who spoke on the
condition that they not be named.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said talks weren’t
gridlocked and will continue through the night and later today.  “We haven’t yet a conclusion on the growth agenda because
we have to discuss also the aspects of financial stability and
we do this related to the discussion also foreseen” on the
future of the euro,  Van Rompuy  told reporters late yesterday.  Italian officials said they were surprised by his remarks,
signaled it sought a broader deal that includes immediate action
on lowering borrowing costs. Germany has opposed any effort to
join forces on sovereign debt or expand the crisis-fighting role
of the  European Central Bank .  French President  Francois Hollande  said Italy and Spain
ought to receive support from the euro area’s firewall funds and
that their yields are still too high after the efforts they’ve
made to reform their economies. Spain’s 10-year yields breached
7 percent and Italy auctioned 10-year securities at the highest
yields since December yesterday.  Hollande’s Concern  Hollande said the growth remarks “aren’t enough” and that
he’ll withhold endorsement of an EU fiscal pact, which was
endorsed by his predecessor,  Nicolas Sarkozy  in December, at
least until the end of the two-day summit.  “The euro zone cannot stay in the current circumstance,
without a budgetary union and even more without a banking
union,” Hollande told reporters.  Stocks fell in early Asian trading on concern a breakdown
in Europe’s crisis-fighting effort may deepen a slowdown in the
world’s second-biggest economic bloc. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index slid 0.3 percent at 9:01 a.m. in Tokyo.  Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  proposed that bailout
funds buy collateralized government debt in primary markets. His
proposal joined discussion of whether the euro area’s rescue
fund should aid banks directly and the role of the ECB, which
has already bought more than 200 billion euros  of  government
bonds  and pumped more than 1 trillion euros of three-year loans
into the banking system. It shelved its bond-purchase program
earlier this year.  ‘Concrete Measures’  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs CommissionerOlli Rehn said the ECB’s actions have prevented the crisis from
worsening. He also called for “concrete measures” to help
Italy and Spain and more debate about mutualized public debt.  “The ECB has played a key role in safeguarding financial
stability,” Rehn said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “We respect the independence of the ECB, but they
have played a key role so far in fighting off the crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Brussels at  afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  