-- Derivatives Show Money-Market Stress Rises as Euro Summit Opens
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-06-28T14:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/derivatives-show-money-market-stress-rises-as-euro-summit-opens.html
Forward markets signaled increased
stress in the money markets as European leaders began a two-day
summit on the region’s debt crisis.  Predictions in the forward market for the gap between the
London interbank offered rate and federal funds, known as Libor-
OIS, rose to 33.2 basis points from 31.3 basis points yesterday,
according to the second rolling three month so-called FRA/OIS
spread.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened 1.5 basis points to 25 basis points. The gap is
a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector credit
risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for dollar
Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many
types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  European Union leaders are struggling to reach a consensus
on how to safeguard governments in Spain and  Italy , with German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  rejecting calls to do more to cut their
borrowing costs.  Banks shares slid after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined 290 million
pounds ($451.4 million), the largest penalties ever imposed by
regulators in the U.S. and U.K., after admitting yesterday it
submitted false London and euro interbank offered rates.
Authorities are pursuing sanctions in the global investigation
of more than a dozen lenders.  Libor Scandal  Traders at the U.K.’s second-biggest bank by assets
routinely coordinated with counterparts from at least four other
banks in an attempt to move interest rate benchmarks, according
to documents released yesterday by the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, the U.S. Justice Department and the U.K.
Financial Services Authority.  The benchmarks included the Libor and Euribor, a related
euro-denominated rate. In both cases, the goal was to generate
profits on derivatives held by the banks, the agencies said.  Three-month Libor, which represents the rate at which banks
say it would cost to borrow from another,  was  0.46060 percent,
where it had held since June 25, according to the British
Bankers’ Association. The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks
reluctance to lend, was little changed at 28.1 basis points.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term
of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market increased. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 59 basis points below Euribor, compared to 57.6
basis points below yesterday.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, widened. The
measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was little
changed at 42 basis points.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
rose $10.1 billion to $1.008 trillion in the week ended June 27,
reversing a three-week trend of declines, according to Federal
Reserve data.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was little changed at minus 35.4 basis
points. A negative swap price indicates investors are willing to
receive reduced interest payments on the yen they lend in order
to obtain the needed financing in dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  