-- Deutsche Bank Wants Uninterrupted Implementation of Basel Rules
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-06-28T16:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/deutsche-bank-wants-uninterrupted-implementation-of-basel-rules.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  wants regulators to
implement Basel III rules on capital as planned as  Germany ’s
biggest bank seeks to maintain loans to companies, Juergen Fitschen, the lender’s co-chief executive officer, said.  “Basel III gives us an especially sensible set of rules
because it allows a sufficient transition period,” Fitschen
said today in a speech in Frankfurt. “I hope that from January
next year, when the rules take effect, we’ll be on a path that
allows us to reach the goals without major disruption.”  Global regulators are ordering lenders to raise capital and
cut risk to prevent a repeat of the taxpayer-funded bank
bailouts in the financial crisis sparked by the 2007 meltdown of
the U.S. housing market. The rules may make credit costlier, and
regulators don’t need to add other goals, as  Europe ’s top
banking regulator did by calling for banks to boost capital as a
response to the sovereign debt crisis, Fitschen said.  Banks worldwide will be required to hold common equity of
at least 7 percent of risk-weighted assets by 2019 when the new
rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  take full
effect. Firms deemed systemically important such as Deutsche
Bank will need more.  The European Banking Authority told banks in December to
raise 114.7 billion euros ($142.6 billion) in capital to attain
a core Tier 1 ratio of at least 9 percent of risk-weighted
assets by June 30 after accounting for writedowns on European
sovereign bonds.  “The old process was on a very good path,” Fitschen said.
“The EBA doesn’t belong in there. In my opinion it wasn’t
needed, didn’t achieve any value and was more of a panic
reaction.”  Deutsche Bank has said it plugged the 3.2 billion-euro
capital gap identified by the EBA by the end of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  