-- Diamond Seen Surviving Libor Storm After Barclays Plunges
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-06-29T16:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/diamond-seen-surviving-libor-storm-after-barclays-plunges.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s investors aren’t
joining lawmakers in calling for Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  to quit, though they say record fines for Libor
manipulation threaten to doom his turnaround plan for the bank.  Shares of the U.K.’s second-biggest bank by assets  plunged 
16 percent yesterday, the most in three years, on speculation
Diamond’s job is at risk and that billions of dollars of
lawsuits will follow the $451 million in penalties imposed by
the U.S. and U.K. Regulators worldwide are probing at least five
other firms, including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   “He’ll probably weather the storm,” said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage 16 billion pounds ($25 billion)
at London’s Rathbone Brothers Plc, including Barclays shares.
“There’ll be more regulation. Governments globally are very
much on the banks’ case. It may turn out he’s slightly bailed
out as other banks have to come clean.”  Diamond, 60, ran the London-based bank’s securities unit
during the period probed. He and three top lieutenants will
forgo their bonuses this year as a result of the fines, two
months after his 12 million pound pay package for last year
earned scorn from shareholders and lawmakers. After taking over
as CEO in 2011, Diamond vowed to boost Barclays’ return on
equity, a profitability measure, to 13 percent, about double
last year’s 6.6 percent ratio.  ‘Take Responsibility’  Barclays fell 1.7 percent to 162.85 pence in London
trading, valuing the lender at 19.9 billion pounds. In the wake
of yesterday’s plunge, Barclays is now this year’s worst
performer in the five-member  FTSE 350 banks index , with a 7.5
percent decline.  “People have to take responsibility for the actions and
show how they’re going to be accountable,” British Prime
Minister  David Cameron  said in Brussels yesterday. “It’s very
important that goes all the way to the top of the
organization.”  Barclays declined to comment further. A voicemail left for
Chairman Marcus Agius wasn’t returned.  Diamond has agreed to appear at a meeting of U.K. lawmakers
to highlight “what we have done and are doing to put things
right,” he said in a letter yesterday to  Andrew Tyrie , chairman
of Parliament’s cross-party Treasury Committee.  “I appreciate that the nature of the settlements disclosed
yesterday raises many questions, and I welcome the opportunity
to provide answers,” Diamond wrote.  Top Executives  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  ICAP Plc (IAP) ,  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Citigroup and Deutsche Bank are all being
investigated in their role in how the London interbank offered
rate is set. Though all of the banks’ share prices declined
yesterday, none approached Barclays’ plunge.  “If  Bob Diamond  does go, what does that mean for Anshu Jain,  Stephen Hester ? What happens to Vikram Pandit? How
ridiculous do you want to make this?” said  Christopher Wheeler ,
a London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA, referring to top
executives of Deutsche Bank, RBS and Citigroup respectively.  A total of 18 banks are surveyed as part of the process of
determining Libor and related rates. Libor, a benchmark for more
than $350 trillion of financial products globally, is set by
averaging out submissions in a poll of banks, who are asked how
much it would cost them to borrow from each other for different
periods of time, from overnight to one year.  ‘Complete Answer’  In 2008, in the midst of the financial crisis, “a member
of senior management” instructed Barclays’ Libor staff to lower
their submissions to make them match other banks and dispel
concern about the lender’s health, the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission said in a settlement document.  Matthew Oakeshott, a member of the U.K. ruling coalition’s
Liberal Democrat party who sits in Parliament’s upper House of
Lords, said Diamond should resign.  Paul Myners , who also sits in
the House of Lords for the opposition  Labour Party , said
Barclays executives should face criminal charges.  “What did he know and when did he know it?” Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  said of Diamond, speaking in
Parliament in London yesterday. Osborne also said prosecutors at
the  Serious Fraud Office  are now investigating the case.  Diamond had already scrapped in February a timeline of
reaching his profitability target by 2013. Barclays was the last
British consumer bank to have kept such a target as  Europe ’s
debt crisis and tougher regulation eroded earnings.  Succession Concern  “It does question the position of the top people there,
but it’s difficult to see merely changing the boss would be the
complete answer,” said Jane Coffey, who oversees 12 billion
pounds as head of equities at Royal London Asset Management
Ltd., which holds Barclays in its  index funds . “The regulatory
environment will become a lot tougher for them. That will ensure
they will not be making the same money they were before.”  It’s also unclear who could replace Diamond, according to
Chirantan Barua, an analyst at Sanford Bernstein Research in
London. Chief Operating Officer Jerry del Missier, Finance
Director Chris Lucas and corporate and investment banking chief
 Rich Ricci  are also forgoing bonuses this year due to the fines.  “The simple fact is that there is no internal candidate”
with the “industry experience, much-needed political
credibility and expertise in running a large capital markets
business,” Barua wrote in a note yesterday. “This will remain
a driver of volatility for the stock as long as the pressure
from political parties remains.”  In the Libor investigation, the U.K. Financial Services
Authority said derivatives traders requested false submissions
from their colleagues as they were “motivated by profit and
sought to benefit Barclays’ trading positions.”  Criminal Charges  In another blow to Barclays today, the lender will join
RBS, Lloyds and HSBC Holdings Plc in compensating small and
medium-sized businesses improperly sold interest-rate
derivatives following a probe by the FSA. The regulator, which
didn’t say how much would be paid out, FSA found “serious
failings” by the banks dating back to 2001.  Calls for Diamond to step down may not abate, especially if
lawsuits follow the regulatory penalties and possible criminal
charges.  “Pressure for change could continue to mount as industry
observers digest the released evidence,” Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. analysts said in a note to clients. “We would expect any
changes to the senior management team at Barclays to be
negatively taken by the market.”  Diamond told analysts led by Chris Manners of Morgan
Stanley he has no plans to step down in a meeting yesterday.
Manners and Huw Van Steenis met Diamond to talk about the impact
of the publication of the bank’s Libor settlement, the analysts
wrote in a note to clients today.  “The CEO says he does not intend to stand down,” said the
note. “Further, the CEO was appointed 18 months ago with the
full approval of the FSA in knowledge of this investigation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  