-- DNB, Nordea See Gain in Commerzbank Shipping Exit
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-06-28T11:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/dnb-nordea-see-gain-in-commerzbank-shipping-exit.html
DNB ASA (DNB) , the world’s second-largest
shipping bank, and  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  will be targeting wider loan
margins in the shipping industry after  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s decision
to abandon the business.  “This is clearly positive for Nordea and DNB, as it
removes capacity, which is better for pricing,” said Nick Anderson, a London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank. “While this
doesn’t necessarily mean that DNB and Nordea will go out there
and try to get more business, it does mean they will be able to
demand better terms and pricing on their new shipping loans.”  DNB, based in Oslo, and Stockholm-based Nordea, the  world’s
No. 4  shipping bank, are sticking it out in an industry hurt by
soaring fuel costs and slumping freight rates and asset values,
even as other European banks have scaled back or left the
business. Commerzbank, the world’s third-largest maritime
lender, said June 26 that it will close its ship finance unit
amid  Europe ’s debt crisis to focus on “business that is
sustainably profitable.”  “Whenever a substantial participant exits a business, it
creates opportunities for those who remain,” Hans Christian Kjelsrud, head of shipping, offshore and oil services at Nordea,
said by phone from Oslo. “There’s a scarcity of capital from
the bank market, which means that banks can really pick and
choose what businesses they want to do.”  The yield on Nordea’s five-year 3.125 percent dollar
denominated note slid four basis points to 2.94 percent as of
1:28 p.m. in  Stockholm . The yield on DNB’s 4.5 percent two-year
euro note fell five basis points to 1.27 percent.  Margin Improvement  Nordea is sticking to a plan of keeping its shipping
portfolio “fairly stable” for the next two years, with the
payment stream from its existing book providing enough capital
for new loans. Kjelsrud’s unit’s 19.7 billion-euro ($24.6
billion) portfolio includes tankers,  container ships , oil
services and drilling rigs.  DNB is seeing improving margins for lenders, Harald Serck- Hanssen, head of shipping, offshore and logistics at DNB, said
in a telephone interview.  “We’ve seen margins coming up on shipping loans and I
think they’ve now come up to a level where it’ll be interesting
to see if new banks will be attracted to the market,” he said.
“You clearly have some signs of American banks coming back and
I also think we’ll see Australian, Asian and Canadian banks --
banks from areas where the banking industry is less affected by
the downturn -- coming in.”  Stricter Regulation  Peter Sand, an analyst at Danish shipping association
BIMCO, which accounts for 65 percent of global tonnage, said
stricter regulation for banks is likely to make loans more
expensive for shipping companies in the future. Commerzbank’s
decision to exit ship financing is also likely to give banks
still lending to the shipping industry more business, he said.  “In the longer-term this will bring around more business
to those banks still active in the market as the number of ship
owners looking for a new bank or who want to increase the
involvement with an existing one is bound to increase,” Sand
said. “Nordea and DNB are large and important players, as they
have in recent years proven to be around to solve the financial
challenges together with the owners, with the future in sight.”  Shares Drop  Nordea fell 1.6 percent to 56.40 kronor in Stockholm
trading at 1:20 p.m. local time, while DNB declined 0.4 percent
to 55.25 kroner in Oslo. Nordea has lost 13 percent over the
past 12 months while DNB has lost 24 percent. Commerzbank, down
6.1 percent at 1.26 euros in  Frankfurt  today, has slumped 56
percent since the end of June last year while the 43-member
 Bloomberg Banks (BEBANKS)  and Financial Services Index has decreased 29
percent.  Soaring fuel costs, dropping freight rates and an
overcapacity of vessels have hurt profits and led to losses at
shipping lines, while stricter lending criteria at banks and
falling asset values have made it difficult for many to get new
credit or pay their interest.  Container lines A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, CMA CGM SA and
Hapag-Lloyd AG all posted losses last year because of high fuel
costs and falling freight rates.  Net shipping loan losses at Nordea, the Nordic region’s
largest lender, tripled to 135 million euros last year, the bank
said on Jan. 24. Loan losses more than quadrupled to 60 million
euros in the three months through March.  New Entrants  Lloyds Banking Group Plc and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  have also
exited ship finance as the industry struggles, new banking
regulation require lenders to increase capital buffers and
reduce risk and amid losses stemming from Europe’s debt crisis.
More banks may follow because of the capital-intensity of ship
finance and high dollar funding costs, Kjelsrud said.  “Ship finance has historically been dominated by European
banks and right now we are in a period where bank capacity and
ship finance capacity among European banks is declining,” he
said. “This is a trend that started one to two years ago and
continues right now. It probably means the shipping industry
will have to diversify its sources of capital away from bank
funding and I believe that export financing agencies and the
 bond market  will be increasingly important in the future.”  Maersk, the world’s largest container shipping company,
this year raised 3 billion kroner ($496 million) through selling
bonds in  Norway , its first debt sale since 2010.  Other lenders still active in ship finance are also likely
to benefit from Commerzbank’s exit through better pricing and
more business opportunities, Dagfinn Lunde, a member of  DVB Bank
SE (DVB) ’s managing board, said. Still, the decision to pull out is
“a blow” and “extends the negative sentiment in the shipping
industry.”  Debt Exposure  DNB and Nordea have avoided the worst of the fall-out from
Europe’s debt crisis, having little exposure to countries such
as Greece, Spain and  Portugal . Commerzbank had 8.4 billion euros
in Italian sovereign debt, 2.9 billion euros in Spanish holdings
and 0.8 billion euros of Portuguese debt on its books on March
31 this year, it said in its first-quarter report on May 9.  The bank on June 6 had its  credit rating  cut one level to
A3 by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited “the increased
risks of further shocks emanating from the euro area debt
crisis, in combination with the banks’ limited loss-absorption
capacity” as it downgraded seven German banks. Moody’s rates
Nordea Aa3, three steps above Commerzbank, while DNB has an A1
rating, one level below Nordea.  ‘Radical Move’  “This radical move by Commerzbank shows that the bank is
preparing for an escalation of the debt crisis and prepares for
further write downs in their public finance portfolio,”  Konrad Becker , a Munich-based analyst at Merck Finck & Co., said.  Commerzbank, based in Frankfurt, became the world’s third-
largest shipping lender after acquiring Dresdner Bank AG in
2008, doubling the size of its maritime-loan portfolio just
before the industry entered its biggest crisis since World War
II. At $28 billion, the bank’s shipping portfolio is smaller
than only the books of HSH Nordbank AG and DNB, according to
Athens-based vessel-finance consultant Petrofin SA.  HSH Nordbank, based in Hamburg, said shipping will remain a
“core” business, according to an e-mailed response to
questions by Rune Hoffmann, a bank spokesman. The bank is
evaluating the potential consequences of Commerzbank’s decision,
he said.  DnB and Nordea have coped better than most rivals because
their ship finance divisions are more conservative and have
stricter lending criteria, Anderson of Berenberg bank said.  “Nordic banks are much more sensible and much more
conservative in their underwriting decisions and they also
typically lend against  cash flow , not against asset values,”
Anderson said. “If you have funding and liquidity, you can
consider all lending opportunities.” Nordea and DNB “are happy
to stay in ship finance; they can make money in that market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Treloar in Oslo  at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  