-- Euro Pares Losses as European Leaders Agree to Stimulus
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-28T21:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/dollar-weakens-against-peers-before-eu-summit-aussie-advances.html
The euro pared losses against the
dollar after the European Union agreed to spend 120 billion
euros ($149 billion) to stimulate growth and create jobs.  The shared currency still closed down against the greenback
for a fourth day and reached a three-week low versus the yen as
investors speculated that any measures agreed on during a two-
day summit in Brussels will fail to resolve the region’s debt
crisis. Brazil’s real briefly erased a loss after the central
bank said it will offer currency swap contracts at an auction
tomorrow.  “The summit is unlikely to come up with any fantastic move
forward,”  Paul Robinson , London-based global head of foreign-
exchange research at Barclays Plc, said in a conference call
said before the stimulus agreement. “What we’re likely to see
is further capital outflows from the euro area to other European
and non-European currencies.”  The euro dropped 0.2 percent to $1.2444 at 5 p.m.  New York 
time. The 17-nation currency depreciated 0.5 percent to 98.87
yen after touching 98.33 yen, the lowest since June 6. The
dollar weakened 0.3 percent to 79.46 yen as  Japan ’s currency
strengthened against all but one of its 16 major counterparts as
a decline in stocks boosted demand for safer investments.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  gained for a second day as U.S. jobless
 claims  decreased by 6,000 to 386,000 in the week ended June 23,
in line with the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc.
uses to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.1 percent to 82.721.  Riskless Ranking  The dollar has strengthened against 12 of its 16 most-
traded counterparts this year, with the euro declining 4 percent
and the yen falling 3.2 percent.  Brazil ’s real has dropped the
most, at 10.2 percent, while the Mexican peso leads gainers with
a 2.4 percent rise.  The euro’s risk-adjusted loss of 0.44 percent against the
dollar this year is the most out of the 16 major currencies, the
Bloomberg Riskless Ranking shows. The euro is also last with a
loss of 3.8 percent on a straight return basis.  Brazil’s real posted a risk-adjusted gain of 0.85 percent
versus the greenback to lead gainers, the data show, while the
yen’s risk-adjusted gain of 0.44 percent is third best.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Brazil Swaps  Brazil’s central bank said it will offer as many as 60,000
currency swap contracts tomorrow from 10:15 a.m. to 10:30 a.m.
local time, according to a statement distributed by the bank.
The currency dropped 0.1 percent to 2.0778 per dollar after
declining as much as 1.1 percent.  Mexico ’s peso, the Canadian dollar and  Colombia ’s peso all
declined on slowing-growth concern amid the European turmoil.  “There’s some pessimism going into this summit,”  Michael Woolfolk , a senior currency strategist at  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. (BK) , said in a telephone interview. “Economic
conditions in Europe, particularly in  Germany , continue to
deteriorate. We’re going into this very long dollar and yen
expecting maybe a modest euro bounce after the conference.” A
long position is a bet the value of an asset will increase.  EU Blueprint  EU leaders gather tomorrow for the second day of the 19th
summit on the region’s debt crisis. They are due to discuss a
plan seen playing out over more than a decade for closer
European integration. The blueprint, written by European Council
President  Herman Van Rompuy , centers on common banking
supervision and deposit insurance, along with a “criteria-based
and phased” move toward joint debt issuance.  “The market expects very little from the summit,” said
Jesper Bargmann, regional head of spot trading for major
currencies in  Singapore  at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
“Whatever the outcome, I think euro is a sell.”  An International Monetary Fund team will start negotiations
on potential changes to an international Greek loan after a
fact-finding team travels to  Athens  “early next week,” a fund
spokesman said.  While economic growth in Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy,
may accelerate to 1.3 percent in 2013, heightened uncertainty
about the debt crisis will weigh on growth in the middle part of
this year, Munich-based Ifo said today. Ifo forecast expansion
of 0.7 percent for 2012.  The number of people out of work in Germany rose a
seasonally adjusted 7,000 to 2.88 million, the Nuremberg-based
Federal Labor Agency said today. Economists had forecast an
increase of 3,000, the median of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey showed.  Italian Auction  Funds are flowing into banks in Germany, the only euro-area
country with a stable outlook on its AAA rating, at record
levels. Deposits in Germany rose 4.4 percent to 2.17 trillion
euros ($2.72 trillion) as of April 30 from a year earlier,
according to ECB figures. Deposits in Spain,  Greece  and Ireland
shrank 6.5 percent to 1.2 trillion euros in the same period,
including a 16 percent drop for Greece, the data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Italy sold 5.42 billion euros of five- and 10-year bonds,
versus a maximum 5.5 billion-euro target for the sale. The
Treasury priced the 10-year debt to yield 6.19 percent, up from
6.03 percent at the previous auction on May 30. The five-year
bond yielded 5.84 percent, compared with 5.66 percent last
month.  The nation’s 10-year yields climbed to a five-month high of
6.34 percent on June 14, approaching the 7 percent level that
spurred Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts.  ‘Unfinished Business’  The euro has lost 3.1 percent in the past three months, the
biggest drop among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen was the best
performer with a 8.8 percent jump, followed by a 4.4 percent
increase in the dollar.  “You can talk about unfinished business at the EU summit,
but things could take years to solve and the markets haven’t got
that long,” said  Chris Turner , head of foreign-exchange
strategy at ING Groep NV in  London . “The euro is going to take
the strain and peripheral debt will remain under pressure.”  ING forecasts the euro will fall to $1.22 in the next
month, Turner said.  Mexico’s peso declined against the dollar, falling from a
six-week high as an index of executive and consumer sentiment in
the 17-nation euro area dropped to 89.9 from a revised 90.5 in
May, the European Commission in Brussels said today. That’s the
lowest since October 2009. The currency dropped 0.4 percent to
13.6163 per dollar after falling as much as 1.2 percent, its
biggest drop in a week.  Loonie, Peso  The Canadian dollar is poised for the biggest drop versus
major currencies in almost a year on speculation that slowing
worldwide growth will crimp demand for the nation’s raw
materials and prevent its central bank from raising  interest
rates . The so-called loonie depreciated 0.8 percent to C$1.0332
after touching C$1.0363, its weakest point since June 6.  Colombia’s peso fell after President  Juan Manuel Santos 
asked the central bank to take “more aggressive” action to
weaken the currency and as concern Europe’s debt crisis is
getting worse sapped demand for higher-yielding, emerging-market
assets. The currency slid 0.6 percent to 1,806.50 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  